PRESS MARK Press No. ...Fa Shelf No '1.. Book No. ... .6.7.TrT...Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21704673I [•^y rCUNNINGHAM’S MANUAL OF Practical Anatomy BY ■ The Late D. J. CUNNINGHAM M:D. (eDIN. ET duel.), D.SC., LL.D. (sT. AND. ET GLAS.), D.C.L. (OXON.), F.R.S., LATE PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINEURGH FIFTH EDITION EDITED BY ARTHUR ROBINSON PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH VOLUME FIRST SUPERIOR EXTREMITY ; INFERIOR EXTREMITY : ABDOMEN WITH 255 ILLUSTRATIONS COLL. REG. EDINBURGH, GLASGOW, AND LONDON HENRY FROWDE AND HODDER & STOUGHTON 1912PHnted hy R. & R. Clark, Limhed, Edinburgh All rights 7‘cserved*iii PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION In this the fifth edition of Professor Cunningham’s Manual of Practical Anatomy—the first edition which has appeared since his death—the editor has attempted to retain the essential features of a book which is neither a text-book of anatomy nor a mere description of the methods to be adopted for the satisfactory dissection of the different regions of the body. In a sense it is a combination of the two which avoids minuteness of detail, in- dispensable in a text-book, whilst at the same time it endeavours to be a reliable guide for those who desire to obtain a knowledge and comprehension of human anatomy which will be of practical use in the ordinary course of their professional work. The present edition differs from those which have preceded it in two important respects. Some of the plans of dissection have been changed and the Basle anatomical nomenclature has been adopted throughout. In Vol. I. the plans of dissection which have been either entirely altered or greatly modified are those dealing with the dissections of the axilla, the abdomen and the pelvis, and the changes have been made with the object of bringing the methods of dissection more into line with the necessities of present-day operative procedure, that is, with the object of displaying the parts in a sequence which shall be introductory to the study of the anatomical details of clinical diagnosis and operative work. All the dissections described have been performed repeatedly and successfully, in the dissecting-rooms of the University of Edinburgh, by students dissecting the parts for the first time ; and the new figures illustrating the various stages of the dissection of the abdomen have been drawn from dissections made by students preparing, in the ordinary way, for their professional examination in anatomy. Other plans were tried before those which are described were finally adopted ; and I am greatly indebted to my first and second assistants, Dr. E. B. Jamieson and Mr. T. B. Johnston, and to Pro- fessor R. B. Thomson of the South African College, Capetown, formerly my second assistant, for their loyal help and valuable suggestions during the progress of the work. 1 am also indebted to Messrs. O. Blackley, S. J. Linzell, M. Barseghian, R. C. Rogers, and F. M. Halley, for the skilful help, so willingly given, in the preparation of the dissections from which new drawings have been made, and to Mr. J. T. Murray, for the drawings, which fully sustains the reputation he has gained as a delineator and interpreter of anatomical subjects. The reasons for the adoption of the Basle anatomical nomen- clature are mainly two. Firstly, and chiefly, because it is morePREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION IV regular and definite than that hitherto in use, and, therefore, it tends to inculcate greater definiteness of idea and statement. Secondly, because it has been very generally adopted in Canada, Australia, and America, and will be adopted in the new anatomical department of the South African College. Therefore, if we in Great Britain and Ireland retain the old terms, it will not be long before students and graduates who have been educated in the British Colonies and America will have difficulty in understanding the terminology in use in this country, and the blame for the un- necessary confusion which will result will lie with those of us who refuse to adapt ourselves, and fail to encourage our students to adapt themselves, to changing conditions. It is not for a moment suggested that the Basle anatomical terminology is perfect, indeed in many respects it might easily be improved, but on the whole it is simpler, more definite, and more instructive than the old terminology, particularly for the beginner, to whom the old terms are unknown ; moreover, it uses only one designation for each structure and, therefore, avoids the superfluity of terms which is one of the great drawbacks of the older nomen- clature. Thus it presents several advantages, and its deflciencies can easily be remedied, with a minimum of trouble, by the altera- tion of a few terms ; for the main principles are sound and are easily applied to details which were not considered at the Basle congress. It is admitted that the adoption of the Basle nomenclature will, for a time, be a source of some trouble to medical men to whom the old terms are familiar, but the difficulty can be alleviated by the frequent repetition of the old term after the new, when the former differs considerably from the latter—a plan which has been adopted in this volume. To further facilitate the transition from the older to the newer terminology, the glossary of the more important terms, indicating the differences between the old and the new, which was introduced in the last edition, and for which my thanks are due to Mr. J. Keogh Murphy, has been retained, but whilst the old terms were placed first, and the new last, in the old edition, the position has been reversed in this. Our experience in Edinburgh, during the past two years, encourages the belief that under the system outlined above, and adopted in this volume, the transition from the old to the new terminology will be the source of very little trouble to the student, whilst it will excite his interest and lead him to appreciate the value of terms which themselves convey instruction in anatomy as contrasted with others which have only historical associations. ARTHUR ROBINSON.V CONTENTS THE UPPER EXTREMITY. PAGE Axilla, ........ i Dissection of the Back, ..... 37 Shoulder—Scapular Region, ..... 48 Front of the Arm, ...... 62 Dorsum of the Arm, ...... 83 Shoulder-Joint, ....... 88 Forearm and Hand, ...... 94 Volar Surface and Medial Border of the Forearm, . 97 Wrist AND Palm, . . . . . . .110 Dorsum and Lateral Border of the Forearm, . . 132 Dorsal Aspect of the Wrist and Hand, . . . 142 Articulations, ....... 148 INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The Thigh, ....... 166 Superficial Dissection, . . ... 169 Deep Dissection of the Thigh, .... 180 Medial Side of the Thigh, ..... 204 Glut/eal Region, . . . . . . .215 Popliteal Space, ....... 234 Back of the Thigh, ...... 245 The Leg, ........ 257 Anterior Crural Region and Dorsum of P'oot, . . 259 Lateral Crural or Peroneal Region, . . . 273 Medial Crural Region, ...... 275 Posterior Crural Region, ..... 276VI CONTENTS PAGE Sole of the Foot, ...... 289 Articulations, ....... 310 ABDOMEN. Male Perineum, ....... 340 Anal Triangle, ....... 345 Urogenital Triangle, ...... 349 Female Perineum, ...... 364 Anal Triangle, ....... 369 Urogenital Triangle, ...... 369 Abdominal Wall, ...... 376 Lumbar Triangle and Lumbar Fascia, . . . 418 Hernia, ........ 420 Abdominal Cavity, ...... 426 Vessels on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen, . . 539 Fascia and Muscles on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen, ....... 547 Nerves on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen, . . 550 Pelvis, ........ 555 Male Pelvis, ....... 557 Ligaments of the Pelvic Articulations, . . . 612 The Female Pelvis, ...... 619 The Pelvic Blood-vessels, ..... 646 The Visceral Nerves of the Pelvis, .... 647 The Pelvic Diaphragm, ...... 650 INDEX ........ 651vii A GLOSSARY OF THE INTERNATIONAL (B.N.A.) ANATOMICAL TERMINOLOGY GENERAL TERMS. Terms indicating Situation and Direction. Longitudinalis Longitudinal Verticalis Vertical Anterior Posterior Ventral Anterior ■» Posterior j Ventral 'j Dorsal Cranial Dorsal j Cranial ^ Caudal Superior Caudal j Superior 1 Inferior Proximalis Inferior J Proximal \ Distalis Distal / Sagittalis Sagittal Frontalis Frontal Referring to the long axis of the body. I" Referring to the position of the long \ axis of the body in the erect posture. J Referring to the front and back of the body or the limbs. {Referring to the anterior and posterior aspects, respectively, of the body, and to the flexor and extensor aspects of the limbs, respectively, r Referring to position nearer the head I or the tail end of the long axis. I Used only in reference to parts of 1. the head, neck, or body. fUsed in reference to the head, neck, and body. Equivalent to cranial V and caudal respectively. fUsed only in reference to the limbs, -j Proximal nearer the attached end. V Distal nearer the free end. /"Used in reference to planes parallel I with the sagittal suture of the I skull, i.e. vertical antero-posterior I ])lanes. (Used in reference to planes parallel I with the coronal suture of the skull, t i.e. transverse vertical planes,Vlll GLOSSARY Horizontalis Horizontal Medianus Median Medialis Medial I Lateralis Lateral J Intermedius Intermediate Superficialis Profundus Externus Superficial 1 Deep j External | Internus Ulnaris Internal j Ulnar 1 Radialis Tibial Radial / Tibial t Fibular L Fibular J /Used in reference to planes at right 1 angles to vertical planes. / Referring to the median vertical I antero-posterior plane of the body, j" Referring to structures relatively J nearer to or further away from the ( median plane. r Referring to structures situated be- tween more medial and more [ lateral structures. /Referring to structures nearer to and \ further away from the surface. ("Referring, with few exceptions, to the I walls of cavities and hollow organs. 1 Not to be used as synonymous with I medial and lateral. I Used in reference to the medial and I lateral borders of the forearm, ( respectively. ('Used in reference to the medial and J lateral borders of the leg, re- [ spectively. THE BONES. B.N.A. Terminology. Vertebrae Fovea costalis superior Fovea costalis inferior Fovea costalis transversalis Radix arcus vertebrae Atlas Fovea dentis Epistropheus Dens Sternum Corpus sterni Processus xiphoideus Incisura jugularis Planum sternale Ossa Cranii. Os frontale Spina frontalis Processus zygomaticus Facies cerebralis P'acies frontalis Old Terminology. Vertebrae Incomplete facet for head of rib, upper Incomplete facet for head of rib, lower Facet for tubercle of the rib Pedicle Atlas Placet for odontoid process Axis Odontoid process Sternum Gladiolus Ensiform process Supra-sternal notch Anterior surface Bones of Skull. Frontal Nasal spine Itxternal angular process Internal surface P'rontal surfaceIX GLOSSARY B. N.A. Terminology. Os parietale Linece temporales Sulcus transversus Sulcus sagittalis Os occipitale Canalis hypoglossi Foramen occipitale magnum Canalis condyloideus Sulcus transversus Sulcus sagittalis Clivus Linea nuchse suprema Linea nuchce superior Linea nuchte inferior Os sphenoidale Crista infratemporalis Sulcus chiasmatis Crista sphenoidalis Spina angularis Lamina medialis processus ptery- goidei Lamina lateralis processus ptery- goidei Canalis pterygoideus [Vidii] Fossa hypophyseos Sulcus caroticus Conchae sphenoidales Hamulus pterygoideus Canalis pharyngeus Tuberculum sell® Fissura orbitalis superior Os temporale Canalis facialis [Fallopii] Hiatus canalis facialis Vagina processus styloidei Incisura ma.stoidea Impressio trigemini Eminentia arcuata Sulcus sigmoideus Fissura petrotympanica Fossa mandibularis Semicanalis tub® auditiv® Os ethmoidale Labyrinthus ethmoidalis Lamina papyracea Processus uncinatus Old Terminology. Parietal Temporal ridges Groove for lateral sinus Groove for sup. long, sinu.s Occipital Anterior condyloid foramen Foramen magnum Posterior condyloid foramen Groove for lateral sinus Groove for sup. long, sinus Median part of upper surface of basi occipital Highest curved line Superior curved line Inferior curved line Sphenoid Pterygoid ridge Optic groove Ethmoidal crest Spinous process Internal pterygoid plate External pterygoid plate Vidian canal Pituitary fossa Cavernous groove Sphenoidal turbinal bones Hamular process Pterygo-palatine canal Olivary eminence Sphenoidal fissure Temporal Bone Aqueduct of Fallopius Hiatus Fallopii Vaginal process of tympanic bone Digastric fossa Impression for Ga.sserian ganglion Eminence for sup. semicircular canal P'ossa sigmoidea Glaserian fissure Glenoid cavity Eustachian tube Ethmoid I>ateral mass Os planum Unciform processX GLOSSARY B.N.A. Terminology. Os lacrimale Hamulus lacrimalis Crista lacrimalis posterior Os nasale Sulcus ethmoidalis Maxilla Facies anterior Facies infra-temporalis Sinus raaxillaris Processus frontalis Processus zygomaticus Canales alveolares Canalis naso-lacrimalis Os incisivum Foramen incisivum Os palatinum Pars perpendicularis Crista conchalis Crista ethmoidalis Pars horizontalis Os zygomaticum Processus temporalis Processus fronto-sphenoidalis Foramen zygomatico-orbitale Foramen zygomatico-faciale Mandibula Spina mentalis Linea obliqua Linea mylohyoidea Incisura mandibulre Foramen mandibulare Canalis mandibulse Protuberantia mentalis The Skull Ossa suturarum Foveolm granulares (Pacchioni) Fossa pterygo-palatina Canalis pterygo-palatinus Foramen lacerum Choanae Fissura orbitalis superior Fissura orbitalis inferior Old Terminology. Lachrymal Bone Hamular process Lachrymal crest Nasal Bone ' • Groove for nasal nerve Superior Maxillary Bone Facial or external surface Zygomatic surface Antrum of Plighmore Nasal process Malar process Posterior dental canals Lacrimal groove Premaxilla Anterior palatine foramen Palate Bone Vertical plate Inferior turbinate crest Superior turbinate crest Horizontal plate Malar Bone Zygomatic process Frontal process Tempora-malar canal Malar foramen Inferior Maxillary Bone Genial tubercle or spine External oblique line Internal oblique line Sigmoid notch Inferior dental foramen Inferior dental canal Mental process as a Whole. Wormian bones Pacchionian depressions Spheno-maxillary fossa Posterior palatine canal Foramen lacerum medium Posterior nares Sphenoidal fissure Spheno-maxillary fissureGLOSSARY XI Upper Extremity. B.N.A. Terminology. Old Terminology. Clavicula Tuberositas coracoidea Tuberositas costalis Clavicle Impression for conoid ligament Impression for rhomboid ligament Scapula Incisura scapularis Angulus lateralis Angulus medialis Scapula Supra-scapular notch Anterior or lateral angle Superior angle Humerus Sulcus intertubercularis Crista tuberculi majoris Crista tuberculi minoris Facies anterior medialis Facies anterior lateralis Margo medialis Margo lateralis Sulcus ners'i radialis Capitulum Epicondylus medialis Epicondylus lateralis Humerus Bicipital groove External lip Internal lip Internal surface External surface Internal border External border Musculo-spiral groove Capitellum Internal condyle External condyle Ulna Incisura semilunaris Incisura radialis Crista interossea Facies dorsalis Facies volaris Facies medialis Margo dorsalis Margo volaris Ulna Greater sigmoid cavity Lesser sigmoid cavity External or interosseous border Posterior surface Anterior surface Internal surface Posterior border Anterior border Radius Tuberositas radii Incisura ulnaris Crista interossea Facies dorsalis Facies volaris Facies lateralis Margo dorsalis Margo volaris Carpus Os naviculare Os lunatum Os triquetrum Os multangulum majus Os multangulum minus Os capitatum Os hamatum Radius Bicipital tuberosity Sigmoid cavity Internal or interosseous border Posterior surface Anterior surface External surface Posterior border Anterior border Carpus Scaphoid Semilunar Cuneiform Trapezium Trapezoid Os magnum UnciformGLOSSARY xii Lower Extremity. B.N.A. Terminology. Os coxse Linea glutxa anterior Linea glutaia posterior Linea terminalis Spina ischiadica Incisara ischiadica major Incisura ischiadica minor Tuberculum pubicum Ramus inferior oss. pubis Ramus superior oss. pubis Ramus superior ossis ischii Ramus inferior oss. ischii Pecten ossis pubis Facies symphyseos Pelvis Pelvis major Pelvis minor Apertura pelvis minoris superior Apertura pelvis minoris inferior Femur Fossa trochanterica Linea intertrochanterica Crista intertrochanterica Condylus medialis Condylus lateralis Epicondylus medialis Epicondylus lateralis Tibia Condylus medialis Condylus lateralis Eminentia intercondyloidea Tuberositas tibiae Malleolus medialis Fibula Malleolus lateralis Old Terminology. Innominate Bone Middle curved line Superior curved line Margin of inlet of true pelvis Spine of the ischium Great sacro-sciatic notch Lesser sacro-sciatic notch Spine of pubis Descending ramus of pubis Ascending ramus of pubis Body of ischium Ramus of ischium Pubic part of ilio-pectineal line Symphysis pubis Pelvis False pelvis True pelvis Pelvic inlet Pelvic outlet Femur Digital fossa Spiral line Post, intertrochanteric line Inner condyle Outer condyle Inner tuberosity Outer tuberosity Tibia Internal tuberosity External tuberosity Spine Tubercle Internal malleolus Fibula External malleolus Bones of the Foot. Talus Calcaneus Tuber calcanei Processus medialis tuberis calc.anei Processus lateralis tuberis calcanei Os cuneiforme primum Os cuneiforme secundum Os cuneiforme tertium Astragalus Os calcis Tuberosity of Inner Outer Inner cuneiform Middle cuneiform Outer cuneiform(rLOSSARY xiii THE LIGAMENTS. Ligaments of the Spine. B. N.A. Terminology. Lig. longitudinale anterius Lig. longitudinale posterius Lig. flava Membrana tectoria Articulalio atlanto-epistrophica Lig. alaria Lig. apicis dentis The Lig. capiluli costas radiatiim Lig. sterno-costale interarticulare Lig. sterno-costalia radiata Lig. costoxiphoidea The Lig. temporo-mandibulare Lig. spheno-mandibulare Lig. stylo-mandibulare Old Terminology. Anterior common ligament Posterior common ligament Ligamenta subflava Posterior occipito-axial ligament Joint between the atlas and the axis Odontoid or check ligaments Suspensory ligament Ribs. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament Interarticular chondro-sternal liga- ment Anterior and posterior chondro- sternal ligament Chondro-xiphoid ligaments Jaw. External lateral ligament of the jaw Internal lateral ligament of the jaw Stylo-maxillary ligament Upper Extremity. Lig. costo-claviculare Labrum glenoidale Articulatio radio-ulnaris proximalis Lig. collaterale ulnare Lig. collaterale radiale Lig. annulare radii Chorda obliqua Articulatio radio-ulnaris distalis Discus articularis Recessus sacciformis I.ig. radio-carpeum volare Lig. radio-carpeum dorsale Lig. collaterale carpi ulnare Rhomboid ligament Glenoid ligament Superior radio-ulnar joint Internal lateral ligament of elbow- joint External lateral ligament Orbicular ligament Oblique ligament of ulna Inferior radio-ulnar joint Triangular fibro-cartilage Membrana sacciformis Anterior ligament of the radio- carpal joint Posterior ligament of the radio- carpal joint Internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint VOt,. I—bGLOSSARY XIV B.N.A. Terminology. Lig. collaterale carpi radiale ArLiculationes intercarpaj Lig. accessoria volaria Lig. capitulonim (oss. metacar- palium) transversa Lig. collateralia Old Terminology. External lateral ligament of the wrist joint Carpal joints Palmar ligaments of the metacarpo- phalangeal joints Transverse metacarpal ligament Lateral phalangeal ligaments The Lower Extremity. Lig. arcuatum Lig. sacro-tuberosum Processus falciformis Lig. sacro-spinosum Labrum glenoid ale Zona orbicularis Ligamentum iliofemorale Lig. ischio-capsulare Lig. pubo-capsulare Lig. popliteum obliquum Lig. collaterale fibulare Lig. collaterale tibiale Lig. popliteum arcuatum Meniscus lateralis Meniscus medialis Plica synovialis patellaris Plicse alares Articulatio tibio-fibularis Lig. capituli fibulae Syndesmosis tibio-fibularis Lig. deltoideum Lig. talo-fibulare anterius Lig. talo-fibulare posterius Lig. calcaneo-fibulare Lig. talo-calcaneum laterale Lig. talo-calcaneum mediale Lig. calcaneoTnaviculare plantare Lig. talo-naviculare Pars calcaneo-navicularis j lig. bifur- Pars calcaneo-cuboidea J catum Subpubic ligament Great sacro-sciatic ligament Falciform process Small sacro-sciatic ligament Cotyloid ligament Zonular band Y-shaped ligament Ischio-capsular band Pubo-femoral ligament Ligament of Winslow Long e.xternal lateral ligament Internal lateral ligament Arcuate popliteal ligament External semilunar cartilage Internal semilunar cartilage Lig. mu cosum Ligamenta alaria Superior tibio-fibular articulation Anterior and posterior superior tibio-fibular ligaments Inferior tibio-fibular articulation Internal lateral ligament of ankle Anterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament Posterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament Middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament External calcaneo-astragaloid liga- ment Internal calcaneo-astragaloid liga- ment Inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament Astragalo-scaphoid ligament Superior calcaneo-scaphoid liga- ment Internal calcaneo-cuboid lig.amentXV GLOSSARY THE MUSCLES. Muscles of the Back. Superficial. B.N.A. Terminology. Old Terminology. Levator scapulte Levator anguli scapulas Muscles of the Chest. Serratus anterior Serratus magnus Muscles of Upper Extremity. Biceps brachii Lacertus fibrosus Brachialis Triceps brachii Caput tnediale Caput laterale Pronator teres Caput ulnare Brachio-radialis Supinator Extensor carpi radialis longus Extensor carpi radialis brevis Extensor indicis proprius Extensor digiti quinti proprius Abductor pollicis longus Abductor pollicis brevis Extensor pollicis brevis Extensor pollicis longus Lig. carpi transversum Lig. carpi dorsale Biceps Bicipital fascia Brachialis anticus Triceps Inner head Outer head Pronator radii teres Coronoid head Supinator longus Supinator brevis Extensor carpi radialis longior Extensor carpi radialis brevior Extensor indicis Extensor minimi digiti Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis Abductor pollicis Extensor primi internodii pollicis Extensor secundi internodii pollicis Anterior annular ligament Posterior annular ligament Muscles of Lower Extremity. Tensor fasciae latoe Canalis adductorius (Hunteri) ■Trigonum femorale (fossa Scarpte major) Canalis femoralis Annulus femoralis M. quadriceps femoris— Rectus femoris Vastus lateralis Vastus intermedins Vastus medialis M. arlicularis genu Tibialis anterior Tensor fasciae femoris Plunter’s canal Scarpa’s triangle Crural canal Crural ring Quadriceps— Rectus femoris Vastus externus Crureus Vastus internus Subcrureus Tibialis anticusXVI GLOSSARY B.N.A. Terminology. Tendo calcaneus Tibialis posterior Quadratus plantre Lig. transversum cruris Lig. cruciatum cruris Lig. laciniatum Retinaculum musculorum pero- nseorum superius Retinaculum musculorum pero- nEeorum inferius Old Terminology. Tendo Achillis Tibialis posticus Accessorius Upper anterior annular ligament Lower anterior annular ligament Internal annular ligament E.xternal annular ligament Axial Muscles. Muscles of th.e Back. Serratus posterior superior Serratus posterior inferior Splenius cervicis Sacro-spinalis Ilio-costalis— Lumborum Dorsi Cervicis Longissimus— Dorsi Cervicis Capitis Spinalis— Dorsi Cervicis Capitis Semispinalis— Dorsi Cervicis Capitis Multifidus Muscles of Epicranius Galea aponeurotica Procerus Pars transversa (nasalis) Pars alaris (nasalis) Auricularis anterior Auricularis posterior Auricularis superior Orbicularis oculi Pars lacrimalis Serratus posticus superior Serratus posticus inferior Splenius colli Erector spims Ilio-costalis— Sacro-lumbalis Accessorius Cervicalis ascendens Longissimus— Dorsi Transversalis cervicis T rachelo-mastoid Spinalis— Dorsi Colli Capitis Semispinalis— Dorsi Colli Complexus Multifidus spinte Head and Neck. Occipito-frontalis Epicranial aponeurosis Pyramidalis nasi Compressor naris Dilatores naris Attrahens aurem Retrahens aurem Attollens aurem Orbicularis palpebrarum Tensor tarsiGLOSSARY xvn B.N.A. Terminology. Triangularis Quadratus labii superioris— Caput zygomaticum Caput infraorbitale Caput angulare Zygomaticus Caninus Quadratus labii inferioris Mentalis Platysma Sterno-thyreoid Thyreo-hyoid Muscles and Fascia bulbi Septum orbitale Rectus lateralis Rectus medialis Old Terminology. Depressor anguli oris Zygomaticus minor Levator labii superioris Levator labii superioris alreque nasi Zygomaticus major Levator anguli oris Depressor labii inferioris Levator menti Platysma myoides Sterno-thyroid Thyro-hyoid Fascia of the Orbit. Capsule of Tenon Palpebral ligaments Rectus externus Rectus internus Muscles of Genio-glossus Longitudinalis superior Longitudinalis inferior Transversus linguae Verticalis linguae Muscles of Pharyngo-palatinus M. uvulae Levator veli palatini Tensor veli palatini Glosso-palatinus Deep Lateral .Scalenus anterior Scalenus posterior Longus capitis Rectus capitis anterior Muscles Transversus thoracis Diaphragma pars lumbalis Crus mediale "j Crus intermedium j- Crus laterale ) Arcus lumbo - costalis medialis (Halleri) Arcus lumbo - costalis lateralis (Halleri) the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus Superior lingualis Inferior lingualis Transverse fibres Vertical fibres the Pharynx. Palato-pharyngeus Azygos uvulae Levator palati Tensor palati Palato-glossus Muscles of Neck. Scalenus anticus Scalenus posticus Rectus capitis anticus major Rectus capitis anticus minor of Thorax. Triangularis sterni Diaphragm, lumbar part— Crura and origins from arcuate ligaments Ligamentum arcuatum internum Ligamentum arcuatum externumxviii GLOSSARY Muscles of tlie Abdomen. B. N.A. Terminology. Ligamentiim inguinale (Pouparti) LigamenUim lacunare (Gimbernati) Fibrse intercrurales Ligamentum inguinale reflexum (Collesi) Annulus inguinalis subcutaneus Crus superius Crus inferius Falx aponeurotica inguinalis M. transversus abdominis Linea semicircularis (Douglasi) Annulus inguinalis abdominalis Perineum Transversus perinei superficialis M. sphincter urethrae membranacere Diaphragma urogenitale Fascia diaphragmatis urogenitalis superior Fascia diaphragmatis urogenitalis inferior Arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis Ligamenta puboprostatica Fascia diaphragmatis pelvis superior Fascia diaphragmatis pelvis inferior Old Terminology. Poupart’s ligament Gimbernat’s ligament Intercolumnar fibres Triangular fascia External abdominal ring Internal pillar External pillar Conjoined tendon Transversalis muscle Fold of Douglas Internal abdominal ring and Pelvis. Transversus perinei Compressor urethrie Deep transverse muscle and sphinc- ter urethra Deep layer of triangular ligament Superficial layer of the triangular ligament White line of pelvis Anterior and lateral true ligaments of bladder Visceral layer of pelvic fascia Anal fascia THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Spinal Cord. Fasciculus anterior proprius (Flech- sig) Fasciculus lateralis proprius Nucleus dorsalis Pars thoracalis Sulcus intermedius posterior ColumniE anteriores, etc. Fasciculus cerebro-spinalis anterior Fasciculus cerebro-spinalis lateralis (pyramidalis) Fasciculus cerebello-spinalis Fasciculus antero-lateralis super- ficialis Anterior ground or basis bundle Lateral ground bundle Clarke’s column Dorsal part of spinal cord Paramedian furrow Anterior grey column Direct pyramidal tract Crossed pyramidal tract Direct cerebellar tract Gowers’ tractGLOSSARY xix The Brain or Encephalon is divided into parts as follows :— (• rhombencephalon = Myelencephalon (medulla) (after-brain) I Posterior primary vesicle. I Metencephalon (pons and cerebellum) (hind-bram) J Pallium (cortex cerebri). Lateral ventricles.GLOSSARY XX Brain. B.N.A. Terminology. Rhombencephalon Eminentia medialis Ala cinerea Ala acustica Nucleus nervi abclucentis Nuclei n. acustici Fasciculus longitudinalis medialis Corpus trapezoideum Incisura cerebelli anterior Incisura cerebelli posterior Sulcus horizontalis cerebelli Lobulus centralis Folium vermis Tuber vermis Lobulus quadrangularis Brachium conjunctivum cerebelli Lobulus semilunaris superior Lobulus semilunaris inferior Cerebrum Pedunculus cerebri Colliculus superior Colliculus inferior Aqueductus cerebri Foramen interventriculare Hypothalamus Sulcus hypothalamicus Massa intermedia Fasciculus thalamo-mammillaris Pars opercularis Thalamus Pallium Gyri transitivi Fissura cerebri lateralis Gyrus temporalis superior Gyrus temporalis medius Gyrus temporalis inferior Sulcus centralis (Rolandi) Sulcus temporalis superior Sulcus temporalis medius Sulcus circularis Sulcus temporalis inferior Gyrus fusiformis Sulcus interparietalis Sulcus corporis callosi Sulcus cinguli Fissura hippocampi Gyrus cinguli Old Terminology. Eminentia teres Trigonum vagi Trigonum acusticum Nucleus of 6th nerve Auditory nucleus Posterior longitudinal bundle Corpus trapezoides Semilunar notch (of cerebellum) Marsupial notch Great horizontal fissure Lobus centralis Folium cacuminis Tuber valvula Quadrate lobule Superior cerebellar peduncle Postero-superior lobule Postero-inferior lobule Crus cerebri Anterior corpus quadrigeminum Posterior corpus quadrigeminum Iter e tertio ad quartum ventri- culum, or aqued. of Sylvius Foramen of Monro Subthalmic region Sulcus of Monro Middle commissure Bundle of Vicq d’Azyr Pars basilaris Optic thalamus Cortex cerebri Annectant gyri P'issure of Sylvius First temporal gyrus Second temporal g>’rus Third temporal g}’rus Fissure of Rolando Parallel sulcus Second temporal sulcus Limiting sulcus of Reil Occipito-temporal sulcus Occipito-temporal convolution Intraparietal sulcus Callosal sulcus Calloso-marginal fissure Dentate fissure Callosal convolutionGLOSSARY XXI B.N.A. Terminology. Stria terminalis Trigonum collaterale Hippocampus Digitationes hippocampi Fascia clentata hippocampi Columna fornicis Septum pellucidum Inferior cornu Commissura hippocampi Nucleus lentiformis Pars frontalis capsulre internte Pars occipitalis capsuloe internie Radiatio occipito-thalamica Radiatio corporis callosi Pars frontalis Pars occipitalis Old Terminology. Taenia semicircularis Trigonum ventriculi Hippocampus major Pes hippocampi Gyrus dentatus Anterior pillar of fornix Septum lucidum Descending horn of lateral ventricle Lyra Lenticular nucleus Anterior limb (of internal capsule) Posterior limb (of internal capsule) Optic radiation Radiation of corpus callosum P'orceps minor Forceps major Membranes of Brain. Cisterna cerebello-medullaris Cisterna interpeduncularis Granulationes arachnoideales Tela chorioidea ventriculi tertii Tela chorioidea ventriculi quarti N. oculomotorius N. trochlearis N. trigeminus Ganglion semilunare (Gasseri) N. naso-ciliaris N. maxillaris N. meningeus (medius) N. zygomaticus Rami alveolares superiores pos- teriores Rami alveolares superiores medii Rami alveolares superiores an- teriores Ganglion spheno-palatinum N. palatinus medius N. mandibularis Nervus spinosus N. alveolaris inferior N. abducens N. facialis N. intermedius N. acusticus Cisterna magna Cisterna basalis Pacchionian bodies Velum interpositum Tela choroidea inferior Nerves. Third nerve Fourth nerve Fifth nerve Gasserian ganglion Nasal nerve Superior maxillary nerve Recurrent meningeal nerve Temporo-malar nerve Posterior superior dental Middle superior dental Anterior superior dental Meckel’s ganglion External palatine nerve Inferior maxillary nerve Recurrent nerve Inferior dental Sixth nerve Seventh nerve Pars intermedia of Wrisberg Eighth or auditory nerve CranialXXll GLOSSARY B.N.A. Terminology. Ganglion superius N. recurrens Ganglion jugulare Ganglion nodosum Plexus oesophageus anterior 1 Plexus oesophageus posterior J Nervus accessorius Ramus internus Ramus externus Spinal Rami posteriores Rami anteriores N. cutaneus colli Nn. sUpraclaviculares anteriores Nn. supraclaviculares medii Nn. supraclaviculares posteriores N. dorsalis scapulae Nn. intercosto-brachiales N. thoracalis longus N. thoraco-dorsalis N. cutaneus brachii medialis N. cutaneus brachii lateralis Fasciculus lateralis Fasciculus medialis N. cutaneus antibrachii lateralis N. cutaneus antibrachii medialis Ramus volaris Ramus ulnaris N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis N. axillaris N. interosseus volaris Ramus palmaris N. mediani Nn. digitales volares proprii Ramus dorsalis manus Ramus cutaneus palmaris N. radialis N. cutaneus brachii posterior N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis Old Terminology. Jugular ganglion of 9th nerve Recurrent laryngeal nerve Ganglion of root 'i , Ganglion of trunk |° Plexus gulae Spinal accessory Accessory portion of spinal accessory nerve Spinal portion Nerves. Posterior primary divisions Anterior primary divisions Superficial cervical nerve Suprasternal nerves Supraclavicular nerves Supra-acromial nerves Nerve to the rhomboids Intercosto-humeral nerve Nerve of Bell Long subscapular nerve Lesser internal cutaneous nerve Cutaneous branch of circumflex nerve Outer cord (of plexus) Inner cord Cutaneous branch of musculo-cuta- neous nerve Internal cutaneous nerve Anterior branch Posterior branch External cutaneous branch of mus- culo-spiral Circumflex nerve Anterior interosseous Palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve Collateral palmar digital branches of median nerve Dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve Palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar nerve Musculo-spiral nerve Internal cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral nerve External cutaneous branches of musculo-spiral nervexxiii GLOSSARY B.N..'V. Terminology. Ramus superficialis N. interosseus dorsalis Nn. digitales dorsales N. ilio-hypogastricus Ramus cutaneus lateralis Ramus cutaneus anterior N. genito-femoralis N. lumbo-inguinalis N. spermaticus externus N. cutaneus femoris lateralis N. femoralis N. saphenus Ramus infrapatellaris N. ischiadicus N. peronasus communis Ramus anastomoticus pero- n®us N. peroniEus superficialis N. peronaeus profundus N. tibialis N. cutaneus surae medialis N. suralis N. plantaris medialis N. plantaris lateralis N. pudendus Old Terminology. Radial nerve Posterior interosseous nerve Dorsal digital nerves Ilio-hypogastric nerve Iliac branch of ilio-hypogastric nerve Hypogastric branch of ilio- hypogastric nerve Genito-crural nerve Crural branch of genito-crural nerve Genital branch of genito-crural nerve External cutaneous nerve Anterior crural nerve Long saphenous nerve Patellar branch of long saph- enous nerve Great sciatic nerve External popliteal nerve Nervus communicans fibularis Musculo-cutaneous nerve Anterior tibial nerve Internal popliteal nerve Nervus communicans tibialis Short saphenous nerve Internal plantar External plantar Pudic nerve THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS, Heart. Atrium Auricula cordis Incisura cordis Trabeculm carneie Tuberculum intervenosum Sulcus longitudinalis anterior .Sulcus coronarius Limbus fossie ovalis Valvula venae cavae Valvula sinus coronarii Auricle Auricular appendix Notch at apex of heart Columnae carneae Intervenous tubercle of Lower Anterior interventricular groove Auriculo-ventricular groove Annulus ovalis Eustachian valve Valve of ThcbesiusGLOSSARY XXIV Arteries. B.N.A. Terminology. Sinus aortse A. profunda linguae A. maxillaris externa A. alveolaris inferior Ramus meningeus accessorius A. buccinatoria A. alveolaris superior posterior Aa. alveolares superiores anteriores Ramus carotico-tympanicus A. chorioidea A. auditiva interna Rami ad pontem A. pericardiaco-phrenica Rami intercostales ' Truncus thyreo-cervicalis A. transversa scapulae A. intercostalis suprema A. transversa colli A. thoracalis suprema A. thoraco-acromialis A. thoracalis lateralis A. circumflexa scapulae A. profunda brachii A. collateralis radialis A. collateralis ulnaris superior A. collateralis ulnaris inferior Ramus carpeus volaris Ramus carpeus dorsalis Aa. metacarpeae dorsales A. volaris indicis radialis Arcus volaris superficialis Arcus volaris profundus A. interossea dorsalis A. interossea recurrens A. interossea volaris Ramus carpeus dorsalis Ramus carpeus volaris Aa. digitales volares communes Aa. digitales volares propriae Arteriae intestinales A. suprarenalis media A. hypogastrica A. umbilicalis A. pudenda interna A. epigastrica inferior Old Terminology. Sinuses of Valsalva Ranine artery Facial artery Inferior dental artery Small meningeal artery Buccal artery Posterior dental artery Anterior superior dental arteries Tympanic branch of int. carotid Anterior choroidal artery Auditory artery Transverse arteries (branches of Basilar artery) Arteria comes nervi phrenic! Anterior intercostal arteries Thyroid axis Suprascapular artery Superior intercostal Transversalis colli Superior thoracic artery Acromio-thoracic artery Long thoracic artery Dorsalis scapulae Superior profunda Anterior branch of superior pro- funda Inferior profunda Anastomotica magna Anterior radial carpal Posterior radial carpal Dorsal interosseous arteries Radialis indicis Superficial palmar arch Deep palmar arch Posterior interosseous artery Posterior interosseous recurrent artery Anterior interosseous artery Posterior ulnar carpal Anterior ulnar carpal Palmar digital arteries Collateral digital arteries Intestinal branches of sup. mesen- teric Middle capsular artery Internal iliac artery Obliterated hypogastric Internal pudic artery Deep epigastric arteryXXV GLOSSARY B.N.A. Terminology. Old Terminology. A. spermatica externa Cremasteric artery Aa. pudenda externa Superficial and deep external pudic arteries A. circumfle.xa femoris mcdialis Internal circumflex artery A. circumflexa femoris lateralis External circumflex artery A. genu suprema Anastomotica magna A. genu superior lateralis Superior external articular artery A. genu superior medialis Superior internal articular artery A. genu media Azygos articular artery A. genu inferior lateralis Inferior external articular artery A. genu inferior medialis Inferior internal articular artery A. malleolaris anterior lateralis External malleolar artery A. malleolaris anterior medialis Internal malleolar artery A. peronaa Peroneal artery Ramus perforans Anterior peroneal artery A. malleolaris posterior lateralis Posterior peroneal artery A. malleolaris posterior medialis Internal malleolar artery Rami calcanei laterales External calcanean artery Rami calcanei mediales Internal calcanean artery A. plantaris medialis Internal plantar artery A. plantaris lateralis External plantar artery Aa. metatarsea plantares Digital branches Aa. digitales plantares Collateral digital branches Veins. V. cordis magna Great cardiac vein V. obliqua atrii sinistri Oblique vein of Marshall Lig. vena cava sinistra Vestigial fold of Marshall Vv. cordis minima Veins of Thebesius Sinus transversus Lateral sinus Confluens sinuum Torcular Herophili Plexus basilaris Basilar sinus Sinus sagittalis superior Superior longitudinal sinus Sinus sagittalis inferior Inferior longitudinal sinus Spheno-parietal sinus Sinus aliB parvse V. cerebri interna Veins of Galen V. cerebri magna Vena magna Galeni V. terminalis Vein of the corpus striatum V. basalis Basilar vein V. transversa scapula Suprascapular vein V. thoraco-acromialis Acromio-thoracic vein Vv. transversa colli Transversalis colli veins V. thoracalis lateralis Long thoracic vein V. azygos Vena azygos major V. hemiazygos Vena azygos minor inferior V. hemiazygos accessoria Vena azygos minor superior V. hypogastrica Internal iliac vein V. epigastrica inferior Deep epigastric vein V. saphena magna Internal saphenous vein V. saphena parva External saphenous veinGLOSSARY XXVI Lymphatics. B.N.A. Terminology. Old Terminology. Cisterna chyli Receptaculum chyli THE VISCERA. Digestive Apparatus. Arcus glosso-palatinus Arcus pliaryngo-palatinus Gl. lingualis anterior Ductus submaxillaris Gl. parotis accessoria Ductus parotideus (Stenonis) Dentes pnemolares Dens serotinus Papillie vallatie Recessus pharyngeus Tela submucosa Plicie circulares Gl. intestinales Valvula coli Columnie rectales Plicie transversales recti Valvula spiralis Noduli lymphatici aggregati (Peyeri) Intestinum jejunum Intestinum ileum Noduli lymphatici lienales (Malpighii) Respiratory Larynx Prominentia laryngea Incisura thyreoidea superior M. ary-epiglotticus M. vocalis M. thyreo-epiglotticus Appendix ventriculi lai-yngis Plica vocalis Plica ventricularis Ligamentum ventriculare Ligamentum vocale Glottis Rima vestibuli Cartilago thyreoidea Anterior pillar of fauces Posterior pillar of fauces Gland of Nuhn Wharton’s duct Socia parotidis Stenson’s duct Bicuspid teeth Wisdom tooth Circumvallate papilla: Lateral recess of pharynx Pharyngeal aponeurosis Valvulce conniventes Crypts of Lieberkuhn Ileo-aecal valve Columns of Morgagni Valves of Houston Valves of Heister Peyer’s patches T ejunum Ileum Malpighian corpuscles Apparatus. Adam’s apple Superior thyroid notch Aryteno-epiglottidean muscle Internal thyro-arytenoid muscle Thyro-epiglottidean muscle Laryngeal sac True vocal cord False vocal cord Superior thyro-arytenoid ligament Inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament Glottis vera Glottis spuria Thyroid cartilageGLOSSARY XXVll B.N.A. Tkrminologv. Membrana hyo-thyreoidea Cartilago corniculata (Santorini) Tuberculum epiglotticum Pars intermenibranacea (rimce glottidis) Pars intercartilaginea (riniK glottidis) Conus elasticus (membranre elastiae larynges) Glandula thyreoidea Glomus caroticum Nose Concha nasalis suprema (Santorini) Concha nasalis superior Concha nasalis media Concha nasalis inferior Old Tkkminology. Thyro-hyoid membrane Cartilage of Santorini Cushion of epiglottis Glottis vocalis Glottis respiratoria Crico-thyroid membrane Thyroid gland Intercarotid gland or body Highest turbinate bone Superior turbinate bone Middle turbinate bone Inferior turbinate bone Urogenital Corpuscula renis Paradidymis Appendix testis Ductus deferens Gl. urethrales Glandula bulbo-urethralis (Cowperi) Folliculi oophori vesiculosi Cumulus oophorus Tuba uterina Epoophoron Appendices vesiculosi Ductus epoophori longitudinalis Orificium internum uteri Orificium externum Processus vaginalis Glandula magna vestibuli Apparatus. Malpighian corpuscles Organ of Giraldes Hydatid of Morgagni (male) Vas deferens Glands of Littre Cowper’s gland Graafian follicles Discus proligerus Fallopian tube Parovarium Hydatids of Morgagni (female) Gartner’s duct Internal os (of uterus) External os Canal of Nuck Bartholin’s gland Peritoneum. Bursa omentalis Foramen epiploicum Lig. phrenico-colicum Excavatio recto-uterina (cavuin Douglasi) Lig. gastro-lienale Lesser peritoneal sac Foramen of Winslow Costo-colic ligament Pouch of Douglas Gastro-splenic omentum SENSE ORGANS. The Eye. Sclera Sclerotic coat Lamina elastica anterior (Bowmani) Bowman’s membraneExternal semicircular canal xxviii GLOSSARY Canalis semicircularis lateralis B.N.A. Terminology. Lamina elastica posterior (Des- cemeti) Spatia anguli iridis Angulus iridis Zonula ciliaris Septum orbitale Fascia bulbi Commissura palpebrarum lateralis Commissura palpebrarum medialis Tarsus superior Tarsus inferior Lig. palpebrale mediale Raphe palpebralis lateralis Tarsal glands Ductus reuniens Ductus cochlearis Recessus sphericus Recessus ellipticus Paries jugularis Paries labyrinthica Fenestra vestibuli Fenestra cochleee Paries mastoidea Antrum tympanicum Paries carotica Processus lateralis Processus anterior Old Terminology. Descemet’s membrane Spaces of Fontana Irido-corneal junction Zonule of Zinn Palpebral ligament Capsule of Tenon External canthus Internal canthus Superior tarsal plate Inferior tarsal plate Internal tarsal ligament E.xternal tarsal ligament Meibomian glands Ear, Canalis reuniens Membranous cochlea Fovea hemispherica Fovea hemi-elliptica Floor of tympanum Inner wall Fenest/a ovalis Fenestra rotunda Posterior wall Mastoid antrum Anterior wall Processus brevis (of malleus) Processus gracilis TheMANUAL OF PRACTICAL ANATOMY. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. ''T''HE dissector of the upper extremity begins work on the fourth day after the subject has been placed in the dis- secting-room. He will find the body lying upon its back. The thorax is raised to a convenient height by means of blocks, and a long board is placed under the shoulders for the purpose of supporting the arms when they are abducted from the sides. In dissecting the axilla and thorax it will be found advantageous if the dissectors of the arm and of the head and neck arrange to work at different hours. The dissector of the head and neck, at this stage, is engaged on the posterior triangle of the neck, and the dissection of the triangle cannot be well done unless the arm be placed close to the side and the shoulder depressed. For the dissection of the axilla the arm should be stretched out at right angles to the thorax. A compromise between these two posi- tions always results in discomfort to both dissectors. The upper extremity consists of the brachium or arm, the antibrachium or forearm, and the manus or hand. Connected with it are the bones of the shoulder girdle by means of which it is articulated with the skeleton of the body or trunk; it is also connected with the body by means of a number of muscles. The angle which lies between the arm and the upper part of the trunk is the axilla or armpit. It contains a large number of important blood vessels and nerves. All the above-mentioned structures arc to be examined VOL. I—12 THE UPPER EX-rREMITY by the dissector of the upper extremity,' and five days are allowed for the examination of the axilla-and-the muscles .1' which pass to it from the anterior portion of the thoracic region of the body. The following, table may be found useful in regulating- the amount of work' which should be carried out ■ on each day :-—- First Day.—{a) Surface anatomy ; (6) reflection of the skin ; (r) cutane- ous vessels and nerves of the anterior and lateral aspects of the thorax; i (a') examination of the fascia of the pectoralis major and the axillary fascia ; (e) the cleaning of the pectoralis major ; {/} the reflection of the pectoralis major. Second Day.—{a) The examination of the costo-coracoid membrane and the structures piercing it; (d) the removal of the costo-coracoid membrane and the examination of the structures posterior to it. Third Day.—{a) The cleaning of the pectoralis minor ; (b) the cleaning of the contents of the axilla below the pectoralis minor. Fourth Day.—{a) The reflection of the pectoralis minor ; (d) the com- pletion of the cleaning of the contents of the axilla ; (r) the cleaning of the serratus anterior ; (d) the cleaning of the posterior wall of the axilla ; {e) the reflection of the subclavius; (/) the examination of the sterno- 'd clavicular articulation and the disarticulation of the clavicle at the sterno- clavicular joint. Fifth Day.—{a) The brachial plexus and a general review of the axilla and its contents. | Surface Anatomy. —Before jjroceeding to the actual dis- ; section of any region, the student should make it an invariable practice to familiarise himself with the bony prominences within its area. It is by using these as landmarks that the surgeon is enabled to establish the positions of the component parts of the body in the living subject. At the lower part of the neck the entire length of the clavicle can be felt under the skin (Fig. i), and as the student follows its curves, with his finger, he can recognise the positions of the origins of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles from its anterior border (Fig. 5). In a few instances these muscles may present an unbroken line of origin from the sternal to the acromial ends of the bone, but in the vast majority of cases a triangular interval is left between them. This is marked on the surface by a shallow depression, termed the delto- pectoral triangle (infraclavicular fossa), and it is rendered all the more apparent by the prominence of the shoulder on its lateral side, and the sharp backward curvature of the clavicle immediately above it. If the finger be placed in this triangle, and pressed backwards and laterally, it will rest upon the medial side of the coracoid process of the scapula.^ PKCTORAl, REGION o 'I'he articulations.'of the clavicle should also be examined. Medial condyle offemur Lateral condyle of femur Patella Tibia Head of fibula r^ateral malleolus Medial malleolus Lateral malleolus Fig. I.—Surface view showing incisions and bony points. Sternal end of clavicle Acromial end of clavicle Head of humerus Nipple Lower end of body of sternum Lateral epicondyle Medial epicondyle Ant. sup. spine of ilium Great trochanter Styloid process of radius Styloid process of ulna Junction of manubrium with body of sternum Head of radius Symphysis of pubis Lower end of radius Little or no prominence is formed by the lateral extremity of the bone—its superior surface passes continuously on to the4 THE UPPER PEX'rREMPrY superior surface of the acromion of the scapula. By moving the limb, however, the joint can easily be detected. In strong contrast to this is the sternoclavicular joint, where the medial end of the clavicle can be felt as a marked projection, although this is masked to the eye by the sternal part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The incisura jugularis (suprasternal notch), on the upper border of the manubrium sterni between the clavicles, should next be felt, and then the finger can be carried downwards, in the middle line, along the anterior aspect of the sternum. A prominent ridge, crossing the bone transversely at the level of the second costal cartilages, indicates the junction between the corpus sterni and the manubrium. The portion of the sternum uncovered by the two greater pectoral muscles is narrow above, but it widens out below, and suddenly, at the lower end of the corpus sterni, the finger sinks into a depression, between the cartilages of the seventh pair of ribs, and rests upon the xiphoid process. The depression is termed the in- frasternal fossa, or pit of the stomach. The costal arches below the first are easily recognised, but the first rib lies deeply under the clavicle, and can only be felt in front at its junction with the manubrium sterni. The arm should now be abducted (i.e. carried laterally from the trunk), when the hollow of the armpit will be brought into view, as well as the two rounded folds which bound it in front and behind. The anterior fold of the axilla is formed by the lower border of the pectoralis major, and to a small extent also by the lower border of the pectoralis minor. The posterior fold, which is formed by the latissimus dorsi, as it winds round the teres major muscle, is carried downwards to a lower level than the anterior fold. This, as will be seen later on, is an important point in connection with the anatomy of the axilla. If the finger be pushed upwards into the axilla the globular head of the humerus can be felt, when the arm is rotated. One other point demands the attention of the student before the dis- section is commenced, and that is, the position of the nipple. As a rule it lies superficial to the interspace between the fourth and fifth ribs, and it is situated rather more than four inches from the middle line. The student should examine these various landmarks not only upon the body but upon himself and his friends until he is perfectly familiar with them, both by touch and sight, and I f fi t. V >■ »- V s r5 PECTORAL REGION I—1 a can at once put his finger on any given point whatever tlie position of the limb. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions—(i) Along the middle line of the body from the upper margin of the manubrium sterni to the tip of the xiphoid process; (2) from the lower end of this vertical incision transversely round the lateral border of the body; (3) from the upper extremity of the primary incision laterally along the clavicle to the extremity of the acromion process ; (4) from the lower end of the vertical and medial incision {i.e. tip of the xiphoid process) obliquely upwards and laterally, along the anterior fold of the axilla, to the point at which this joins the upper arm. Then down the arm for two and a half or three inches. Two triangular flaps of skin are marked out by these incisions, and these are now to be raised from the panniculus adiposus. But, before this is done, encircle the areola and nipple with the knife and leave the skin covering them undisturbed. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The fatty layer which is now exposed is termed the panniculus adiposus or superficial fascia. It constitutes the cushion upon which the skin rests, rounds off the angularities of the body, and varies in thickness according to the obesity of the subject. It constitutes the bed in which the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the skin. It is separated from the muscles by a tough, but thin, layer of fibrous tissue, devoid of fat, which forms another investment for the body; this aponeurotic membrane receives the name of the deep fascia; it can be readily demonstrated by making an incision in the superficial fascia, and raising a small portion of it. The superficial fascia presents here, as elsewhere, the usual characters, but, as a rule, the fat is not so plentiful. As it descends over the clavicle to the upper part of the thorax and summit of the shoulder, it has, in most cases, a faintly ruddy striated appearance. Should this not at first be apparent, the removal of some of the superficial fat will render it visible. This appearance is due to the presence of a number of sparse scattered muscular fasciculi which stream down over the clavicle, to obtain attachment in the panniculus adiposus over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. In the neck they form a thin, cutaneous, fleshy stratum, called the platysma myoides. The superficial fascia in this region is also specialised by the development of the mamma in its substance. It should now be dissected, with the view of exposing the mamma as well as the cutaneous vessels and nerves which make it their bed before entering the skin.6 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Dissection.—In searching for a cutaneous nerve, cut boldly down through the superficial fascia in the direction in which the nerve runs until the plane at which the superficial and deep fascia blend is reached. It is here that the main trunks are to be found ; and in a well-injected subject the cutaneous arteries furnish the best guides. Nervi Cutanei, Arterise Cutanese (Cutaneous Nerves and Arteries).—There are three distinct groups of cutaneous nerves for the supply of the skin on the anterior and lateral parts of the thorax. They are :— 1. The supraclavicular nerves—from the cervical plexus. 2. The anterior cutaneous, \from the anterior rami (intercostal) 3. The lateral cutaneous, / of the thoracic nerves. The supraclavicular nerves arise in the neck from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and, spreading out as they descend, they cross the clavicle under cover of the platysma. They are classified, according to their positions, into the anterior, the medial, and the posterior branches. The anierior are the smallest of the series; they cross the medial part of the clavicle to end in the skin immediately below. The medial branches pass over the middle of the clavicle and extend downwards, in the superficial fascia over the pectoralis major, as far as the third rib. The posterior cross the lateral third of the clavicle, and will be afterwards followed to the skin of the shoulder. These nerves can readily be found by cutting down upon the clavicle through the platysma, and in the direction of its fibres. The anterior cutaneous nerves are the minute terminal twigs of the anterior branches of the thoracic nerves. They become superficial by piercing the pectoralis major muscle and deep fascia close to the margin of the sternum. One will be found in each intercostal interval, and they are accompanied by the cutaneouspe)'forating bratiches of the internal mammary artery, which (when injected) serve as the best guides to the nerves. They give slender twigs to the skin over the sternum, and larger branches which are directed laterally, and may be traced as far as the anterior fold of the axilla. The lateral cutatieous nerves, much larger than the pre- ceding, arise from the anterior rami of the thoracic nerves, and appear on the side of the thora.x, along a line situated a little behind the anterior fold of the axilla. They pierce the wall of the thorax in the interspaces between the ribs, and divide into anterior and posterior branches underPECTORAL REGION 7 cover of the serratus anterior muscle. At a later stage these branches will be found appearing between the digita- tions of the serratus anterior. The anterior branches come out, as a rule, about an inch in front- of the corresponding- posterior branches, and then proceed forwards over the lower border of the pectoralis major muscle, where they should be sought for at once. From the lower members of this series some minute twigs are given off, which enter the superficial •i Fibrous trabeculae of the gland M. teres major M. latissimus dorsi M. pectoralis major Lobules of the gland Ampullae of ducts M. serratus anterior Fig. 2.—Dissection of the Mamma. surface of the digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The posterior branches run backwards, to the dorsal aspect of the trunk, over the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi muscle. It is advisable not to attempt to secure the two highest lateral cutaneous nerves (i.e. those issuing from the second and third intercostal spaces) in the meantime. They are best dissected along with the other contents of the axilla. Dissection.—If the subject be a female the dissector should endeavour to make out the connections, and also something of the structure, of the mamma. The small area of skin which has been left over the areola should be raised towards the summit of the nipple, and bristles may be introduced through the orifices of the ducts which may be seen on the I—1 h8 THE UPPER EXTREMITY extremity of the nipple. Further, by removing the fat which surrounds the organ the true glandular tissue will be rendered more apparent. It is only in favourable circumstances that the milk-ducts in the nipple and their ampullre in the region of the areola can be isolated and rendered apparent. The Mamma (Mammary Gland or Breast).—In the female the mamma forms a rounded prominence on the front and Fig. 3.—Section through a Mammary Gland prepared by method recommended by Mr. Harold Stiles. also, to some extent, on the lateral aspect, of the thorax. It lies in the superficial fascia, and its smooth contour is largely due to the invasion of its substance by the fatty tissue of this layer. A little below its mid-point, and at a level which usually corresponds to the fourth intercostal s^race, the mamma is surmounted by a conical elevation termed the papilla mamma or nipple. 'Phis stands in the middle of a circularPECTORAL REGION 9 patch of coloured integument which is called the areola mamma:. Within the nipple, and also subjacent to the areola, there is no fat. A curious change of colour occurs in this region during the second month of pregnancy. At that time the delicate pink colour of the skin of the nipple and areola of the virgin becomes converted to brown, by the deposition of pigment, and it never again resumes its original appearance. The mamma extends, in a horizontal direction, from the side of the sternum to very nearly the mid-axillary line on the side of the thorax, and, in a vertical direction, from the second costal arch above to the sixth costal cartilage below. About two-thirds of the gland are placed upon the pectoralis major muscle, whilst the remaining part, which corresponds to its inferior and lateral third, extends beyond the anterior fold of the axilla, and lies upon the serratus anterior muscle. From the part which lies in relation to the lower border of the pectoralis major a prolongation extends upwards into the axilla, and reaches as high as the third rib. The mamma is not isolated by a capsule from the surrounding fatty tissue of the superficial fascia. Pervading it, and supporting the true glandular substance, there are strands or trabeculae of connective tissue which constitute its stroma or framework, and these are directly continuous with the fibrous tissue which supports the fat of the superficial fascia. The stroma and gland-substance together constitute a conical mass termed the corpus mamma. Processes pro- ject out from both the surface and margins of the corpus mammae, and in the hollows between these projections is deposited the fat which gives the smooth contour to the organ. Many of the processes which extend from the super- ficial surface are attached to the deep surface of the skin. 'I’hey form the so-called liga??ients of Cooper. The gland substance is arranged in lobes and lobules, and the ducts issuing from these converge towards the areola. Some fifteen or more lactiferous ducts pass towards the base of the nipple. Subjacent to the areola the ducts expand into fusiform dilatations termed the sinus lactiferi., and then, contracting, they traverse the substance of the nipple, upon the summit of which they open. In a well-injected subject twigs from the intercostal arteries, and also from the perforathig branches of theTHE UPPER EXTREMITY lO internal mammary artery, may be traced into the mamma; and other vessels, called the external mammary bra^iclies of the lateral thoracic artery, may be seen winding round the edge of the pectoralis major, or piercing its lower fibres, to reach the gland. By means of ly7tiphatic vessels the mamma is brought into connection with the sternal lymph glands, and also, more directly, with the axillary lymph glands. The latter con- nection is one of much importance to the surgeon in cases where it is necessary to remove the organ for malignant disease. In the male the mamma (mamma virilis) is extremely rudimentary. The nipple is small and pointed, and the areola is surrounded by sparse hairs. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia of the pectoral region is a thin membrane which closely invests the pectoralis major. It is attached above to the clavicle, and medially to the front of the sternum. Below, it is continuous with the deep fascia covering the abdominal muscles, and, at the lower border of the pectoralis major muscle, it is continuous with the axillary fascia. At the deltopectoral triangle a process from its deep surface dips in between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles to join the costo-coracoid membrane, whilst, further laterally, the aponeurosis becomes continuous with the fascia covering the deltoid muscle. The costo- coracoid membrane will be described later on. Fascia Axillaris (Axillary Fascia).—The axillary fascia is a dense felted membrane which extends across the base of the axilla. It is continuous anteriorly with the deep fascia over the pectoralis major, posteriorly with the fascial sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and the teres major muscle, medially with the deep fascia on the surface of the serratus anterior, whilst laterally it is continuous with the deep fascia on the medial surface of the upper part of the arm. It is drawn up towards the hollow of the axilla, and the elevation is due chiefly to the connection of its deep surface with the fascial sheath of the pectoralis minor, and partly to its attachment to the areolar tissue which fills the axillary space. In a well-injected subject a small artery, from the lower part of the axillary trunk, may be seen ramifying on the surface of the fascia. Dissection.—The pectoralis major muscle must now be cleaned, and itsPECTORAI. REGION 11 division into sternal and clavicular parts clearly made out. The muscular fibres are rendered tense by abducting the arm from the side. On the right side the dissector begins at the inferior border of the muscle, whilst on the left side he commences at the superior border. lie must also clean the anterior margin of the deltoid. In the interval between the deltoid and the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major the cephalic vein and, subjacent to it, the deltoid branches of the thoraco-acromial artery, and the infraclavicular lymph glands will be found. The “cleaning” of a muscle means the removal of the whole of the deep fascia from its surface. To do this successfully the dissector must Central elands M. serratus anterior Subscapular glands M. latUsiinus dorsi M. pectoralis major M. pectoralis minor Pectoral glands Lymphatic vessels to sternal glands M. deltoidens Cephalic vein I. pectoralis major Chain of glands related to the axillary vessels Fig. 4.—The Lymph Glands and Vessels of the .‘\xilla and Mamma. (From Poirier and Cuneo—modified.) follow three rules, (i) Me must cut boldly down through the deep fascia till he exposes the red fibres of the muscle. (2) As he removes the fascia he must keep the knife edge playing against the fibres of the muscle. (3) As he makes his cuts he must carry the knife blade in the direction of the fibres of the muscle. If he follows rules i and 2 he will not leave a thin film of fascia on the muscle, and as he follows rule 3 he will find that the direction of his incisions change as the course of the fibres of the muscle changes. If the work is well done the deep fascia should be removed from the muscle as a continuous unperforated layer of fibrous tissue, and the surface of the muscle will be clean. Lymphoglandulse Infraclaviculares (Infraclavicular Lymph Glands).—In the interval between the adjacent margins ofTHE UPPER EXTREMITY I 2 the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, immediately below the clavicle, are placed one, or it may be two, lymph glands which receive the lymphatic vessels which accompany the cephalic vein. These vessels convey the lymph from the lateral side of the arm and the shoulder. M. Pectoralis Major.—This powerful muscle extends from the anterior aspect of the thorax to the humerus. It is divided by a deep fissure into a clavicular and a sternocostal portion. The fissure' penetrates through the entire thickness of the muscle, the clavicular and sternocostal portions being thus distinct, except close to their insertion. The clavicular portio7i arises by short tendinous and muscular fibres from an impression on the medial half of the anterior surface of the Fig. 5.—Under Surface of the Clavicle with the Attachments of the Atuscles mapped out. clavicle. The superficial part of the sternocostal portio7i takes origin by fleshy fibres from the anterior surface of the sternum, from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and, occasionally, from the sixth rib near its cartilage. The deeper part rises by a variable number of muscular slips from the cartilages of the upper six ribs. The pectoralis major is inserted, by a flattened bilaminar tendon, into the lateral lip of the sulcus intertubercularis of the humerus, and the fibres of the muscle undergo a re- arrangement as they converge upon this tendon. The greater part of the clavicular portion joins the anterior lamina of the common tendon; some of the most medial clavicular fibres, however, are inserted directly into the humerus below the tendon, whilst a few gain attachment to the deep fascia of the arm, and others become adherent to the adjacent part of the deltoid. The fibres of the sternocostal portion of the muscle take13 AXILLARY SPACE different directions as they proceed to join both laminte of the tendon of insertion; thus the superior fibres descend slightly, the intermediate fibres pass horizontally, whilst the inferior fibres ascend, and, at the same time, gain the deep - surface of the rest of the muscle. A smooth, full, and rounded I _ lower border is in this way formed which constitutes the anterior fold of the axilla. The precise manner in which I the muscle is attached to the humerus will be more fully j • studied at a later stage of the dissection (p. 56). L The pectoralis major is supplied by the medial and lateral B anterior thoracic nerves. I Axilla.—The axilla may be defined as being the hollow or I recess between the upper part of the side of the thorax and the upper part of the arm. When the limb is abducted from the trunk, and the areolo-fatty tissue which occupies the axilia is removed, the space presents a pyramidal form. The apex, or narrow part of the space, placed immediately to ■ the medial side of the coracoid process, is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, whilst the wider part or base looks downwards. The medial wall formed by the thorax is of greater extent than the lateral wall formed by the arm. It follows from this, therefore, that the anterior and posterior walls converge as they proceed laterally, and because the posterior wall is longer than the anterior, the posterior border of the base is lower than the anterior. Before engaging in the dissection of the space, it is necessary that the student should have some knowledge of its boundaries, and the manner I in which its contents are disposed in relation to these. Boundaries of the Axilla.—The anterior wall is formed by the two pectoral muscles and the costo-coracoid membrane. The pectoralis major constitutes the superficial stratum, and •• is spread out over the entire extent of the anterior wall. The pectoralis minor, which lies subjacent to the pectoralis major, is only in relation to about one-third of the anterior boundary, whilst the interval or gap between this muscle and the clavicle is filled up by the costo-coracoid membrane. 'I'he lower border of this wall of the axilla is the anterior fold of the axilla. It is formed by the lower margin of the pectoralis major, strengthened, medially, by a small part of the lower border of the pectoralis minor, which comes into view near the side of the thorax. The posterior tvall of the axilla is somewhat longer than14 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the anterior wall. It is formed, from above downwards, by the subscapularis muscle, the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major muscle. The subscapularis, covering the costal surface of the scapula, takes by far the largest share in the formation of this wall. The narrow tendon of the latissimus dorsi conceals the front of the teres major and only the lower border of the latter muscle is seen below it. The posterior fold of the axilla is formed by the lower border of this wall. The medial wall is constituted by the upper four or five ribs with the intervening intercostal muscles; it is clothed by the corresponding digitations of the serratus anterior muscle. The lateral wall is formed by the humerus and the conjoined 1. Upper end of humerus. 2. Scapula. 3. Rib. 4. Pectoralis major. 5. Serratus anterior. 6. Subscapularis. 7. A.villary vein. 8. Axillary artery. 9. Long head of biceps. 10. Conjoined origin of short head of biceps and coraco-brachi- alis. 11, 12,13. Brachial nerves. Fig. 6.—Diagram of section through the Axilla of the Left Side. proximal parts of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps brachii. The apex of the space corresponds with the narrow com- munication between the axilla and the root of the neck. It is a triangular interval (which can readily be investigated by the finger when the space is dissected) bounded by the clavicle, first rib, and upper margin of the scapula, and through it pass the great axillary vessels and brachial nerves on their way from the neck to the arm. The wide base of the axilla is closed by the vaulted axillary fascia. Contents of the Axilla.—The axillary artery and vein, with the great brachial nerves and the axillary lymph vessels and lymph glands, constitute the most important contents of the axilla. Except at the summit of the space, they lie close to the lateral wall, and follow it in all the movements of the arm. Disser/iou.—Cut througli llie clavicular fibre.s of the [lectoralis major,AXILLARY SPACE 15 immediately below their attachment to the clavicle, and turn them distally tbSvards their insertion. Whilst doing this secure the branches of the lateral anterior thoracic nerve as they pass into the muscle. Under cover of the clavicular jiart of the pectoralis major follow the cephalic vein and the deltoid branch of the thoraco-acroinial artery medially and secure the acromial and pectoral branches of the latter artery. Clean these vessels, and directly below the clavicle display the coslo-coracoidmembrane, and, more inferiorly and laterally, the fascia on the proximal and lateral ]iart of the pectoralis minor. Cut through the sternocostal part of the pectoralis major about two inches from the lateral border of the sternum. Turn the medial part towards the medial plane, verifying its attachment to the costal cartilages and to the sternum and to the aponeurosis of the external obli(iue muscle of the abdomen. Turn the lateral part of the muscle towards the arm ; whilst doing this secure the medial anterior thoracic nerve which perforates the pectoralis minor and ends in the pectoralis major. Examine the insertion of the pectoralis major. Note that the tendon of insertion consists of two laminae which are united together below ; in other words, the tendon is folded on itself and between the two laminae a mucous bursa is frecpiently interposed. The clavicular fibres and the upper sternocostal fibres are attached to the anterior lamina ; the lower sternocostal fibres to the posterior lamina. Both laminae are attached to the lateral lip of the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus, but the deep lamina ascends to a higher level, and it becomes continuous above with a layer of fascia which is attached to the small tubercle of the humerus. The inferior border of the tendon of insertion is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. When the pectoralis major is completely reflected a continuous sheet ol fascia is exix)sed, which extends from the clavicle superiorly to the axillary fascia inferiorly and from the wall of the thorax medially to the arm laterally ; this is the so-called clavi'pectoral fascia or suspensory ligamenl of the axilla. It is because of the attachment of this fascial sheet to the clavicle superiorly and to the axillary fascia inferiorly that the floor of the axilla is raised when the clavicle is elevated as the arm is abducted from the side. The pectoralis minor muscle, passing obliquely from its origin on the thoracic wall to its insertion into the coracoid process of the scapula, runs through the substance of the clavipectoral fascia and divides it into three parts : (i) the part above the muscle, (2) the part which encloses the muscle, and (3) the part below the muscle. The uppermost part is the costocoracoid membrane, the intermediate part is the sheath of the pectoralis minor. No special term is applied to the lowest part, but it should be noted that it lies posterior to the lower part of the pectoralis major, and that it covers the lower portions of the axillary vessels and nerves. Membrana Costocoracoidea (Costo-coracoid Membrane).— The costo-coracoid membrane occupies the gap between the clavicle above and the pectoralis minor below. It extends from the first rib medially to the coracoid process laterally, and from the clavicle above to the pectoralis minor below. Its upper part is split into two layers, an anterior and a posterior, which are attached to the corresponding borders of the clavicle. Enclosed between them is the subclavius muscle. The strongest part of the membrane is that which extends along the lower border of the subclavius, from the first rib to16 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the coracoid process; this portion is frequently called the costo-coracoid ligament. The membrane is continuous below with the fascial sheath of the pectoralis minor and posteriorly with the fascial sheath of the axillary vessels. It is perforated, above the upper border of the pectoralis minor, by the cephalic vein, the thoraco-acromial artery, and the lateral anterior thoracic nerve. Note that the fibres of the membrane run medio-Iaterally, that they are put on the stretch when the arm is abducted, and that they are relaxed when the arm is by the side. The surgeon takes advantage of these facts when he is ligaturing the first part of the axillary artery. Axillary sheath Axillary fascia Clavicle Subclavius Thoraco-acromial artery first rib Costo-coracoiil membrane Axillary artery Fig. 7.—Diagram of the Costo-coracoid Membrane. Dissection.—Cut through tlie anterior layer of the upper part of the costo-coracoid membrane and expose the subclavius muscle. Pass the handle of a knife below the lower border of the subclavius and upwards behind the muscle and demonstrate the posterior layer of the upper part of the membrane. Clear away the remains of the membrane and follow the cephalic vein to its junction with the axillary vein, the thoraco-acromial artery to the axillary trunk, and tlie lateral anterior thoracic nerve to the lateral cord of the brachial ple.xus. Clean the upjier parts of the axillary artery and vein and the lateral cord of the brachial plexus. Note that the axillary vein lies to the medial side of the artery on a somewhat anterior ]ilane, and that as the arm is abducted from tlie side the vein passes more and more in front of the artery. The lateral cord of the plexus lies to the lateral side of the artery and on a posterior jilane. behind the upper border of the iiectoralis minor lind the medial anterior thoracic nerve, and note that an anastomosis is formed between the medial and lateral anterior thoracic nerve across the front of the artery and behind the costo-coracoid membrane.AXILLARY SPACE 17 Clean the pectoralis minor muscle witlioul injuring the medial anterior thoracic nerve which pierces it. M. Pectoralis Minor.—The pectoralis minor is a triangular muscle which rises from the anterior ends of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs close to their junctions with their cartilages and from the fascia covering the intercostal muscles in the intervening spaces. Its fibres pass upwards and laterally, and its tendon of insertion is attached to the upper surface and the anterior border of the coracoid process near its lateral extremity. When the muscle is in action it draw's the scapula downwards and forwards and depresses the shoulder. It is supplied by the medial anterior thoracic nerve. The greater portion of the pectoralis minor is concealed by the pectoralis major, but the medial part of its inferior border appears on the lateral wall of the thorax below the pectoralis major; its insertion is concealed by the anterior fibres of the deltoid. Dissection.—QXqtv! away the clavipectoral fascia below the level of the pectoralis minor and open up the lower part of the axilla, remove also the deep fascia of the arm in the region of the lateral boundary of the axilla. Commence at the lateral jjart of the area below the pectoralis minor and clean the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps as they descend into the arm from the tip of the coracoid process. Find the lower part of the axillary artery at the medial border of the coraco-brachialis. The trunk of the median nerve lies between the artery and the muscle, and at the lower border of the pectoralis minor the medial head of the nerve crosses the front of the artery. Pull the coraco-brachialis laterally and find the musculo-cutaneous nerve entering its deep surface, just below the pectoralis minor. Above and to the lateral side of the trunk of the musculo- cutaneous nerve find the branch from it which supplies the coraco-brachialis. The axillary vein lies along the medial side of the artery, and in the angle between the artery and vein, anteriorly, is the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm (internal cutaneous). Running along the medial side of the vein is the medial cutaneous nerve of the arm (lesser internal cutaneous nerve) ; secure this and follow it upwards to the communication which it receives from the intercosto-brachial nerve. At the same time identify and preserve the lateral group of axillary lymph glands which lie along the medial side of the axillary vein. .Secure the intercosto-brachial nerve and follow it medially, to the point where it emerges from the second intercostal space, and laterally to the medial and posterior aspect of the arm where it is distributed. In order to display the distribution of the intercosto-brachial nerve, and to give better access to the medial and posterior walls of the axilla, the axillary fascia must be separated from the fascia of the arm. When this has been done the dissector should turn to the medial wall of the axilla and find the anterior and posterior divisions of the lateral branches of the intercostal nerves, as they emerge between the digitations of the serratus anterior behind the inferior border of the pectoralis minor. These he must trace forwards and backwards respectively, and he may expect to find VOL. I—‘2THE UPPER EXTREMITY I.'”' f’’'“'I’ medid wdk „f ,„e „ill. a„„ a. .oJJ'biX™ °hVp«“,S” “jJ Posterior circumflex artery .f , Subscapular artery A ;u ^'^usculo-cutaneous nerve Axillary nerve (O.T. circumflex) Cephalic vein T , , . Acromial artery I^ateral anterior thoracic nerve cord of brachial plexus Thoraco-acromial artery Axillary artery, ist pait Anterior circumflex artery / Pectoralis major ' / Coraco-brachia. Ijiceps brad (short head) Axillaiy vein Subclavius muscle Medial anterior thoracic nerve Pectoral branch of thoraco- acromial artery Tlasilic vein Brachial artery _ ^ . Median nerve fl Fascial band connectih I dorsi with long head oi Medial anti-brachial cuta nerve Ulnar nerve ^ : Medial brachial cutaneous ner Teres major Radial nerve (O.T. musculo-spln , Circumflex artery of scapula (O.T. ‘ dorsalis scapulas) Lower subscapular nerve I Subscapu laris muscle Posterior division of lateral cutaneous ner\‘e Latissimus dersi Tlioraco-dorsal nerve (O.T. middle subscapular) .'Vnterior branch of a lateral cutaneous nerve Long thoracic nerve , I^iercosto-brachial neive Lateral thoracic artery (O.T. long thoracic) itoTiisT'h'inr n °'l e.xposeci by the reflection of the glands ^ ^ subjacent fascia on the removal of the fat and find the lateral thoracic artery ; clean the artery and the medial groim of axillary lymph glands which lie along its course. At the junction of the posterior and anterior two-thirds of the medial wall of tlie a.xilla hnd the long thoracic nerve, which supiilics the serratus - iteiioi and de.sceiuls along its lateral surface from tlie apex to the base ofAXILLARY SPACE 19 the axilla. After the nerve has been secured the serratus anterior must be cleaned. When this has been done the dissector should clean the lower parts of the axillary vessels and nerves and their branches and tributaries. Commence at the lower border of the pectoralis minor and find the subscapular artery. It springs from the medial and posterior part of the axillary trunk and runs distally and medially along the lower border of the subscapularis muscle. Follow the artery and, whilst doing so, clean the posterior group of the a.xillary lymph glands which lie along its course and secure the thoracodorsal nerve (long subscapular), which joins the artery near the junction of the lateral and posterior walls of the axilla and ter- minates in the latissimus dorsi, which it supplies. Rising from the upper part of the subscapular artery is its large circumflex scapular branch which passes backwards through the posterior wall of the axilla. In the angle be- tween this branch and the main trunk will be found the tower subscapular nerve which supplies the teres major and the lower fibres of the subscapularis. The dissector should now thoroughly clean the lower part of the axillary arter}' and vein, the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm which lies in the angle between them anteriorly, and the median cutaneous nerve of the arm which lies along the medial side of the vein ; then he should pull the vein forwards and laterally, and in the angle between it and the artery, posteriorly, he will find the ulnar nerve ; this also should be pulled forwards and laterally to display the axillary (circumflex) nerve, which turns back- wards at the lower border of the subscapularis above the level of the circumflex scapular artery, and the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve, which descends behind the axillary artery to the lower border of the axilla. Spring- ing from the upper part of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve are its posterior brachial cutaneous branch and muscular branches to the long and medial heads of the triceps muscle ; these branches may rise separately from the radial nerve or they spring from it by a common trunk which afterwards divides into the individual branches. Trace the posterior brachial cutaneous nerve to the back of the arm behind the intercosto-brachial nerve; follow the nerve to the long head of the triceps till it enters the muscle. The nerve .to the medial head of the triceps is usually a long slender branch which is known as the ulnar collateral nerve because it accompanies the ulnar nerve to the lower part of the arm. It will be traced to its termination at a later period. The anterior and posterior humeral circumflex branches of the axillary artery will be found springing from the artery a short distance below the subscapular branch, the former rising from the anterior and the latter from the posterior aspect of the axillary trunk. When the lower part of the axilla has been thoroughly cleaned, the pectoralis minor must be divided, about midway between its origin and insertion, and the two parts must be turned aside. When this has been done the upper subscapular nerve must be found entering the upper part of the subscapularis, and then the remaining areolar tissue must be removed from the axillary space, the trunks and branches of the axillary vessels and nerves rnust be thoroughly cleaned, and the contents of the space must be studied in detail. LympLoglandulae Axillares (Axillary Lymph Glands).— 1 he lymph glands in the axillary region are spoken of, collectively, as the axillary glands, but for convenience of description, and to facilitate a more precise knowledge of their connections and associations, they are subdivided into20 THE UPPER EXTREMITY several subordinate groups. Some of the glands have been removed as the dissection proceeded, and others are so small that they may have escaped the attention of the dissector, but if he has followed the directions given above he will have noted at least four groups of glands, (i) A lateral or brachial group consisting of six or more glands, which extend along the axillary vessels. They receive the lymphatics from ii' Cephalic vein M. pecloralis major M. deltoideus Chain o( glands related to the axill.ary vessels M. serratii.s anterior Central glands M. pectoralis minor Pectoral glands M. lalissiinus dorsi M. pectoralis Lymphatic vessels 1 to sternal glands Fig. 9.—The Lymph GInnds and Vessels of the Axilla and Mamma. h (From Poirier and Cuneo—modified.) 5 the greater part of the upper extremity, and those at the I upper part of the chain also receive lymph from the deep part of the mamma. (2) A pectoral group, or medial group, J which lies in the angle between the anterior and medial walls | i of the axilla. This is subdivisible into two parts: (a) an upper group of two or three small glands which lie beneath the pectoralis major in the region of the second and third l intercostal spaces—these receive lymph from the anterior wall * of the thorax and from the lateral two-thirds of the mamma; {/>) an inferior group which lies along the posterior border ofAXILLARY SPACE 21 the lateral thoracic artery, and receives lymph from the lateral wall of the thorax. (3) A posterior or subscapular grouj) which lie along the subscapular artery on the posterior wall of the axilla, and receive lymphatics from the back. (4) The infraclavicular glands, a group of two or three small glands which lie in the deltopectoral triangle and receive lymph from the upper and lateral parts of the arm. In addition a central or intermediate and a subclavicular group of glands are described. The central group lies either on the super- ficial aspect of the axillary fascia, in a pocket of its sub- stance, or deep to the axillary fascia embedded in the adipose tissue of the axilla. The subclavicular glands, from six to twelve in number, lie in the apex of the axilla, they receive afferent vessels from all the lower groups, and their efferents unite together to form the subclaviati lymphatic trunk. The student should note that although the various subgroups are more or less separate, and are particularly associated with definite regions from which they receive lymph, nevertheless they are linked together by lymphatic vessels; therefore micro-organisms which have gained entry into the lymph stream and lymph-borne cancer cells can readily pass from one subgroup to another. Rami Laterales (O.T. Lateral Cutaneous Branches) of the Anterior Divisions of the Second and Third Thoracic Nerves. —As a rule, the first thoracic nerve does not give off a lateral branch. That which springs from the second thoracic nerve is the largest of the series, and differs from the others in not dividing into an anterior and posterior branch. It is termed the intercosto-brachial nerve., on account of its being distributed to the skin on the medial and dorsal aspects of the upper part of the arm. To reach this destination it crosses the axilla and pierces the deep fascia. But before doing so it establishes communications and forms a plexiform arrange- ment in the axilla with the medial brachial cutaneous nerve, and the lateral cutaneous branch of the third thoracic nerve. This plexus may be joined by another twig, which is occa- sionally present, viz. the minute lateral cutaneous branch of the first thoracic nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the third thoracic nerve divides into an anterior and posterior part, which are dis- tributed in the ordinary way. From the posterior branch twigs are given to the skin of the axilla, and the terminal22 THE UPPER EXTREMITY twigs are distributed to the integument on the upper part of the medial aspect of the arm. Posterior clrcumncx urlcry Subscapular artery J^fusculo-cutaneous nerve Axillar>^ nerve (O.T. circumflex) Cephalic vein Acromial artery Lateral anterior thoracic nerve Lateral cord of brachial plexus Thoraco-acromial artery \ Axillary artery, ist pait Axillary vein Suhclavlus muscle Medial anterior thoracic ner\’e Pectoral branch of thoraco- acromial arter Anterior circun'flex artery Pectoralis major Coraco-brachialis Hiceps brachii (short head) Basilic vein Brachial artery Median nerve Fascial band connecting 1: dorsi with long head of trie Anteiior branch of a lateral cutaneous nerve Medial anti-brachial cutaneo nerve Ulnar nerve Medial brachial cutaneous nerve Teres major Radial nerve (O.T. musculo-spiral) Circumflex*arter>' of scapula (O.T. dorsalis scapulae) Lower subscapular nerve Subscapularis muscle Posterior division cf lateral cutaneous nerve dorsi Thoraco-dorsal nerve (O.T. middle subscapular) Long thoracic nerve nlercosto-brachial ncr\c Lateral thoracic artery (O.T. long thoracic) Fig. io.—The contents of the A.\illnry Space exposed liy liie rejection of the Pectoralis Major and the subjacent fascia and the removal of the fat and the lymph glands. Arteria Axillaris (The Axillary Artery) is the chief artery of the upper limb. It commences as the continuation of the subclavian artery, and enters the axilla at its apex, at the lateral border of the first rib. It lies, for a short distance,23 AXILLARY SPACE on the medial wall of the axilla, crosses the interval between the medial and posterior walls, and then runs along the lateral wall to the lower border of the teres major, where it leaves the axilla, and, passing into the arm, becomes the brachial artery. For convenience of description it is usually divided into three parts, the part above, the part behind, and the part below the pectoralis minor, which are known respectively as the first, second, and third parts. The direction of the course of the artery varies with the position of the limb. When the arm is at a right angle with the body, the direction is that of a straight line from the centre of the clavicle to the middle of the bend of the elbow. When the arm is by the side, the artery describes a curve with the convexity directed laterally; and if the arm is raised above the head the curve formed by the artery is convex in the reverse direction. The yfrr/ j>ar^ of the axillary artery lies very deeply. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, clavicular part of the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, and the vessels and nerves superficial to it. But, even when these are removed, the vessel is not completely exposed, because it is enveloped, along with the axillary vein and great nerves, by a funnel-shaped sheath, which is prolonged upon them from the deep cervical fascia, and by the loop of communication between the two anterior thoracic nerves which lies in front of the sheath. Posteriorly, this part of the vessel is supported by the first intercostal space and the first digitation of the serratus anterior muscle, and the long thoracic nerve and the medial cord of the brachial plexus cross behind it. To its medial side, and somewhat overlapping it, is the axillary vein, whilst above and to its lateral side are the lateral and posterior brachial nerve-trunks. The second part of the axillary artery is placed behind the two pectoral muscles, and has the three cords of the brachial plexus disposed around it. Thus the medial cord lies upon its medial side, the lateral cord upon its lateral side, and the posterior cord behind it. The axillary vein is still upon its medial side, but is separated from the artery by the medial nerve-cord. Strictly speaking, it is not in apposition with any muscle posteriorly, being separated from the sub- scapularis muscle by areolo-fatty tissue. The third and longest part of the axillary artery is superficialTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 24 in its distal half. This is due to the fact that the posterior wall of the axilla extends more distally than the anterior wall. Whilst, therefore, it is covered in its proximal half by the pectoralis major, below this it is only covered by the skin and fascia. Behind it proximo-distally are the subscapularis, the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major, but it is separated from the subscapularis muscle by the axillary (circumflex) and radial (musculo- spiral) nerves, and from the latissimus dorsi and the teres (musculo-spiral) Fig. IX.—Diagram to show relation of Axillary Vessels and Nerves. major by the radial nerve. To its lateral side is the coraco- brachialis muscle, but between the muscle and the artery are the musculo-cutaneous and the median nerves. To the medial side of the artery is the vein with the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm in the angle between the artery and vein anteriorly, and the ulnar nerve in the angle between the artery and vein posteriorly. The medial cutaneous nerve of the arm lies along the medial side of the vein. The branches of the axillary artery have been seen at different stages of the dissection. They may now be more fully examined. They are :— Kaclial nerve Ulnar nerveAXILLARY SPACE 25 A. thoracalis suprema A. thoraco- acromialis A. thoracalis lateralis from the first part. from the second part. A. subscapularis . A. circumflexa humeri anterior A. circumflexa humeri posterior _ from the third part. A. Thoracalis Suprema (O.T. Superior Thoracic).—This is a small branch which springs from the axillary at the lower border of the subclavius. It ramifies upon the upper part of the medial wall of the axilla and supplies twigs to adjacent structures. A. Thoracoacromialis (O.T. Acromio thoracic or Thoracic Axis).—The thoraco-acromial artery is a short, wide trunk, which takes origin under cover of the pectoralis minor. It winds round the upper border of that muscle, pierces the costo- coracoid membrane, and immediately divides into numerous branches, which diverge widely from each other. These re- ceive different names, and are arranged as follows:—(a) The rawusc/aviai/an's,a sma\\ twig, which runs upwards to the clavicle and then turns medially along that bone between the clavicular part of the pectoralis major and the costocoracoid membrane. (^) The rami peciorales, of larger size, proceed downwards be- tween the two pectoral muscles, give branches to both, and they anastomose with the lateral thoracic and the lateral branches of the intercostal arteries, {c) The ramus acromialis runs laterally upon the tendon of the pectoralis minor and the coracoid process. Some of its twigs supply the deltoid, whilst others pierce it to reach the superior surface of the acromion. It anastomoses with the transverse scapular (suprascapular) and posterior circumflex humeral arteries. {d) The ramus deltoideus, as a rule, takes origin from a trunk common to it and the preceding artery. It runs distally in the intermuscular interval between the pectoralis major and the deltoid and supplies both muscles. A. Thoracalis lateralis (O.T. Long Thoracic).—This vessel takes the lower border of the pectoralis minor as its guide, and proceeds distally and medially to the side of the thorax. It gives branches to the neighbouring muscles, and it anastomoses with twigs from the intercostal arteries. It also supplies the mamma, giving off, as a rule, an external mammary branchy which winds round or pierces the lower border of the pectoralis major on its way to the gland. Alar Thoracic.—This small artery supplies the fat and lymph glandsTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 26 in the axilla, but it is rarely present as a separate branch, and its place is usually taken by twigs from the subscapular and lateral thoracic arteries. A. Subscapularis.—The subscapular artery is the largest branch of the axillary artery. It arises opposite the inferior border of the subscapularis muscle and, following this, it runs downwards and backwards, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where its terminal twigs anastomose with the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery. In the lower part of its course it is accompanied by the thoracodorsal nerve. Not far from its origin the subscapular artery gives off a large branch, the A. circumflexa scapulce, which winds round the axillary border of the scapula, in close contact with the bone, to reach its dorsal aspect. Numerous smaller twigs are given to the neighbouring muscles. Aa. Circumflexse Humeri (O.T. Anterior and Posterior Circumflex Arteries).—These are two in number, and as a rule they both arise from the axillary at the same level, a short distance distal to the origin of the subscapular artery. The arteria circumflexa humeri posterior is much the larger of the two. Only a small portion of it can be seen at the present stage. It springs from the posterior aspect of the axillary, and at once proceeds backwards, with the axillary nerve, close to the medial and dorsal aspect of the head of the humerus, and in the interval between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. The small arteria circu?nflexa hu7neri anterior takes origin from the lateral aspect of the axillary, and runs laterally, in front of the surgical neck of the humerus, under cover of the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps brachii. Reaching the sulcus intertubercularis, it divides into two branches. Of these one is directed proximally, along the long head of the biceps brachii, to the shoulder-joint; the other passes laterally, to the under surface of the deltoid, and finally anastomoses with some of the terminal twigs of the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus. Vena Axillaris (The Axillary Vein).—This vein has the same extent as the artery. It begins at the lower border of the teres major, as the upward continuation of the basilic vein of the arm, and it becomes the subclavian vein at the lateral margin of the first rib. At the lower margin of the subscapu- laris it receives the two vence comites of the brachial artery, and above the level of the pectoralis minor it is joined by the27 AXILLARY SPACF. Costo- clavicular ligament Anterior sterno- clavicular ligament Interarticular ligament Joint cavity chondro* sternal ligament cephalic vein. Its other tributaries correspond, more or less closely, to the branches of the axillary artery. M. Subclavius.—The subclavius is a small muscle which lies immediately below the clavicle enclosed between the two layers of the costo-coracoid membrane. It takes origin by a short rounded tendon from the superior surface of the first costal arch, at the junction of the bone with the cartilage, and the fleshy belly is inserted into the shallow groove on the inferior surface of the clavicle. The nerve of Joint capsule Joint ca Fig. 12.—.Stcnio-clavicular and Costo-slernal Joints. supply is derived from the fifth cervical nerve and enters the posterior surface of the muscle. When the muscle contracts it depresses the clavicle and draws it slightly forwards. Dissection.—When the subclavius has been examined it must be divided horizontally, and when this has been done the costo-clavicular ligament will be found behind the medial end of the muscle. The clavicle must now be detached from the sternum and the cartil.age of the first rib, and turned laterally so that the brachial plexus may be properly examined, but before this is done the sterno clavicular joint should be studied. With the assistance of the dissector of the head and neck the clavicular part of the sterno-cleidomastoideus muscle must beTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 28 detached from the superior border of the clavicle and the sternal part of the muscle must be pulled towards the medial plane. Articulatio Sternoclavicularis.—The sterno-clavicular joint is a diarthrodial joint formed by the sternal end of the clavicle, the lateral part of the superior border of the manubrium sterni, and the superior surface of the sternal end of the cartilage of the first rib. It helps to increase the range of the forward, backward, and upward movements of the arm. The clavicle is attached to the sternum and the first rib by a strong fibrous capsule. Within the capsule is an articular meniscus which separates the joint cavity into two parts. It is attached to the superior border of the sternal end of the clavicle, to the superior surface of the first rib, and to the anterior and posterior parts of the capsule. On the lateral aspect of the capsule there is a strong accessory ligament, the costo-clavicular ligament, which lies behind the origin of the subclavius muscle and passes upwards, back- wards, and laterally from the first rib to the costal tubercle on the lower surface of the clavicle. In the capsule itself there are three thickened bands, an anterior, a posterior, and a superior, and as some of the fibres of the latter pass from one clavicle to the other, it is called the interclavicular ligament. • Dissection.—Pull the sternal head of the sterno-cleidomastoid muscle towards the medial plane. Cut through the anterior part of the capsule of the joint close to the sternum. Pass the knife behind the capsule, avoid- ing the anterior jugular vein which runs laterally behind the upper border of the joint, and detach the fibres of origin of the sternb-hyoid muscle which spring from the back of the capsule. Cut through the posterior ligament and pull the clavicle laterally. The meniscus is now e.xposed. Detach it from the first rib, then carry the knife laterally below the clavicle and cut through the lower part of the capsule and the costo-clavicular ligament. The clavicle can now be displaced sufficiently upwards and laterally to bring the whole of the brachial plexus into view. Before studying the plexus, the dissector should note that behind the sterno- clavicular joint there are the lower fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyreoid muscles which intervene on the right side between the capsule of the joint and the bifurcation of the innominate artery into its right common carotid and subclavian branches, and on the left side between the joint and the left common carotid artery. Plexus Brachialis (Brachial Plexus). — This important plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and the greater part of the large anterior branch of the first thoracic nerve. Above, the plexus is further reinforced by a small twig of communication which passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical nerve, whilst below.AXILLARY SPACE 29 a similar connecting twig not infrequently passes upwards, in front of the neck of the second rib, from the second to the first thoracic nerve. The manner in which these great nerves join to form the plexus is very constant. The fifth and sixth cervical nerves unite to form an upper trunk ; the seventh remains single and proceeds distally as a middle trunk-, whilst the eighth and first thoracic nerves join, close to the intervertebral foramina, to constitute a third or lotver tnink. A short distance above the clavicle each of the three trunks splits into an a?iterior and a posterior division. Raise the three anterior divisions on the handle of the knife, and it will beTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 3° seen that all the three posterior divisions unite to form the posterior cord of the plexus, and, further, that the most medial of these divisions is much smaller than the other two. Of the three anterior divisions the two lateral join to constitute the lateral cord, whilst the medial passes distally by itself, as the medial cord of the plexus. From the three cords of the plexus are given off the branches which supply the upper extremity. From the above description it will be seen that the plexus may be divided into four stages:— First Stage, . . Five separate nerves (viz. four lower cervical and first thoracic). Second Stage, . Three nerve-trunks (viz. an upper, middle, and lower). Third Stage, . Three anterior divisions and three posterior divisions. Fourth Stage, . Three nerve-cords (viz. a lateral, medial, and a posterior). The plexus lies in the lower and medial part of the posterior triangle of the neck, behind the middle third of the clavicle, and in the axilla; extending from the lateral border of the scalenus anterior to the lower border of the pectoralis minor. As a rule the first two stages are in the neck, the third stage is behind the clavicle, and the last stage is in the axilla. It has been customary to divide the branches of the plexus into supraclavicular and infraclavicular groups, but such a division is neither scientifically accurate nor practically important. The branches of the plexus spring either from its roots, or its trunks, or its cords. The parts of the plexus above the clavicle, and the branches given off in the supra- clavicular region, are found and cleaned by the dissector of the head and neck, and the remaining parts of the plexus and its branches are displayed by the dissector of the upper extremity, but the two dissectors must combine to examine thoroughly the general relations and the branches of the plexus. The Relations of the Plexus. — Superficial to the cervical part of the plexus lie the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma, the deep fascia, the external jugular vein, the transverse cervical and transverse scapular veins, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the transverse cervical artery. Behind it is the scalenus medius muscle. In the interval between the neck and the axilla, the clavicle3T AXILLARY SPACE and the transverse scapular artery and vein are in front of it; and the third part of the subclavian artery is anterior to its lowest trunk. The scalenus medius is still behind it. In the axilla it has in front of it the integument, the fascia, the platysma, the pectoralis major, the pectoralis minor, the costo-coracoid membrane, the ’^cephalic vein, and the axillary artery; behind it lie the upper serration of the serratus anterior, the fascia-filled interval between the medial and posterior walls of the axilla, and the subscapularis muscle. The branches from the roots of the plexus are: (i) Branches to the scalenus anterior, the longus colli, the scalenus medius, and the scalenus posterior (from,C. v., vi., VII., VIII.). (2) A communication to the phrenic nerve (from C. V., or v. and vi.). (3) The dorsalis scapulie nerve which supplies the rhomboid muscles (from C. v.). (4) The long thoracic nerve which supplies the serratus anterior (from C. V., VI., VII.). The branches from the trunks of the plexus are : (i) The nerve to the subclavius from the upper trunk (from C. v., vi.). It has already been seen piercing the posterior surface of the costo-coracoid membrane and entering the posterior aspect of the subclavius (p. 27). (2) The suprascapular nerve from the upper trunk (from C. v., vi.). It will be found crossing the lower part of the posterior triangle deep to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and disappearing through the suprascapular notch on its way to the dorsum scapulae. The branches from the cords are— From the lateral cord : Nervus thoracalis anterior lateralis (O.T. External Anterior Thoracic) (from C. v., vi., vii.). N. musculocutaneus (from C. v., vi., vir.). N. medianus, caput lateralis (O.T. Outer Head of Median) (from C. V., VI., VII.). From the medial cord : N. thoracalis anterior medialis (O.T. Internal Anterior Thoracic) (from C. VIII., D. i.). N. cutaneus antibrachii medialis (O.T. Internal Cutaneous) (from C. VIII., D. I.). N. cutaneus brachii medialis (O.T. Lesser Internal Cutaneous) (from D. I.). N. medianus, caput medialis (O.T. Inner Head of Median) (from C. VIII., I). I.). N. ulnaris (from C. viii., D. i.). From the posterior cord : Nn. subscapulares (O.T. Upper and Lower) (from C. v., vi.).THE UPPER EXTREMITY 32 N. thoracodorsalis (O.T. Long Subscapular) (from C. vi., vn., VIII.). N. axillaris (O.T. Circumflex) (from C. v., vi.). N. radialis (O.T. Musculospiral) (from C. v., vi., vn., viii. i). In the above table the different spinal nerves from which the fibres of the several branches are derived are indicated. Nervi Thoracales Anteriores (Anterior Thoracic Nerves).— These are the nerves which supply the pectoral muscles. They are two in number, the lateral and the medial. The lateral springs from the lateral cord of the plexus, passes forwards across the lateral side of the first part of the axillary artery, anastomoses in front of the artery with the medial nerve, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and breaks up into branches which end in the pectoralis major. The medial afiterior thoracic nerve is somewhat smaller than its lateral companion. It springs from the medial cord of the plexus, passes forwards between the axillary artery and vein, anasto- moses in front of the artery with the lateral nerve, gives twigs of supply to the pectoralis minor, then pierces that muscle and ends in the pectoralis major which it also supplies. The pectoralis major is, therefore, supplied by both anterior thoracic nerves, the pectoralis minor by the medial nerve alone. Nervi Subscapulares (Subscapular Nerves). — The sub- scapular nerves are also two in number—the upper and the lower. They both spring from the posterior cord of the plexus. After a very short course the upper nerve sinks into the upper and posterior part of the subscapularis which it supplies. The lower subscapular nerve passes downwards and laterally, gives branches to supply the lower part of the subscapularis, then passes through the angle between the subscapular artery and its circumflex scapulae branch and ends in the teres major which it supplies. Nervus Thoracodorsalis (O.T. Long Subscapular Nerve).— This nerve springs from the posterior cord of the plexus, passes obliquely downwards and laterally, through the axilla, and joins the subscapular artery near the lower part of the lateral border of the subscapularis muscle. After crossing in front of the artery it terminates in the latissimus dorsi which it supplies. Nervus Thoracalis Longus (O.T. Posterior Thoracic or External Respiratory Nerve of Bell). — The long thoracic nerve may now be studied in its whole length. It passesAXrU.ARY SPACE 33 downwards on the lateral surface of the serratus anterior and is the nerve of supply to that muscle. It arises in the root of the neck, from the brachial plexus, by three roots. The upper two roots (one from the fifth cervical and the other from the sixth cervical nerve) pierce the scalenus medius, and uniting Middle portion of M. serratus anterior Lower portion of M. .serratus anterior M. oldiquus externus M. scalenus medius M. scalenus anterior Upper part of M. .serratus anterior Fig. 14.—Serratus anterior imiscle and origin of the external oblique muscle ; the scapula is drawn away from the side of the chest. into one stem give off branches to the upper part of the serratus anterior. The third root takes origin from the seventh cervical nerve, passes in front of the scalenus medius, and runs downwards for a considerable distance on the surface of the serratus anterior, before it unites with the other part of the nerve. The entire nerve, thus formed, can be followed to the lower part of the serratus, giving twigs to each of its digitations. vox,, t—3THE UPPER EXTREMITY 34 M. Serratus Anterior (O.T. Serratus Magnus).—The serratus anterior arises by fleshy digitations from the upper eight ribs, about midway between their angles and cartilages. Mm. Coraco- brachialis and Biceps bracliii (cap. brev.) M. Pectoralis minor M. Omohyoideus M. Triceps (cap. long.) Fig. 15.—Costal aspect of the Scapula with the Attachments of Muscles mapped out. The slips are arranged on the chest wall so as to present a gentle curve convex forwards. The lower three interdigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The serratus anterior is inserted into the entire length of the anterior lip of the vertebral border of the scapula, and it fallsAXILLARY SPACE 35 I—3 « naturally into three parts, (a) The upper part, composed of the large first digitation alone, arises from the first and second rihs, and from a tendinous arch between them. The fibres converge, to be inserted into a somewhat triangular surface on the costal aspect of the medial angle of the scapula, (b') The middle part consists of two digitations which take origin from the second and third ribs. The upper slip is very broad, and springs from the lower border of the second rib. The fibres diverge to form a thin muscular sheet, which is inserted into the anterior lip of the vertebral border of the scapula, between the insertions of the upper and lower portions, {c) The lower part is formed by the remaining digitations of the muscle. These converge to form a thick mass, which is inserted into a rough surface upon the costal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula. The deep surface of the serratus anterior is in contact with the chest wall. It is the most powerful protractor of the upper extremity. Dissection.—At the end of the fifth day, after the dissector has examined the serratus anterior and carefully revised the contents of the axilla he must replace the clavicle, pack the axilla with tow or rags steeped with disinfectant solution and fix the skin flaps to the wall of the thorax with a few stitches. When he returns on the sixth day he will find that the body has been placed upon its face, with blocks supporting the chest and the pelvis. It will remain in this position for five days, and during the first two of these the dis- sector of the upper extremity must examine the structures which connect the limb with the posterior aspect of the trunk. Surface Anatomy.—In the middle line of the back there is little difficulty in recognising the tips of the spinous processes of the vertebrae. These follow each other in consecutive order, and it may be observed, when the finger is passed over them, that all of them do not lie in the medial plane; some may be deflected, in a slight degree, to one side or the . other. The spines of the vertebrae are the only parts of the vertebral column which come to the surface; they alone yield direct information, by touch, to the surgeon as to the condition of the spine. .At the lower end of the neck, the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra {vertebra prominens) makes a visible projection ; and the spines of the first two thoracic vertebrae are likewise very prominent. As a rule, the most evident of the three is that of the first thoracic vertebra. At a lower level, in subjects of good muscular development, a median furrow is produced by the prominence of the sacrospinalis muscle on each side, and36 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the spines of the vertebrae may be felt at the bottom of KxU occip. prolub. Mastoid process Spine ol scapula Acromion Inf. angle of scapula Medial epicondyle Olecranon Head of radius Styloid process of ulna Styloid process of radius Post. sup. spine of ilium Tip of coccyx Great trochanter Tuberosity of ischium Medial condyle of femur Lateral condyle of femur Lateral condyle of tibia Head of fibula Medial malleolus Lateral malleolus Fig. 16.—Surface View showing incision and bony points. the groove. The furrow attains its greatest depth in the37 DISSECTION OF THE BODY upper part of the lumbar region, and it fades away below at the level of the spine of the third sacral vertebra. The finger should next be passed along the crest of the ilium as it pursues its sigmoid course forwards and laterally. The highest point of the iliac crest corresponds in level with the spine of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and the posterior superior spine of the ilium can be easily detected, seeing that its position is indicated by a small but distinct depression or dimple on a level with the second sacral spine. The scapula or shoulder blade is for the most part thickly covered by muscles; but, in spite of this, its general outline can be made out. It covers a considerable area of the upper portion of the posterior aspect of the thorax. With the hand by the side its medial angle lies over the second rib, the root of its spine is placed opposite the spine of the third thoracic vertebra, whilst its inferior angle reaches down as far as the seventh, or even the eighth, rib. The scapula is very mobile, and moves to a greater or less degree with every movement of the limb. The spine and acromion of the scapula are subcutaneous throughout. Below the scapula the lower five ribs can be felt, and the tip of the last rib can be made out at a point about two inches above the iliac crest. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. In this dissection the following are the parts which require to be examined ;— 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- The cutaneous vessels and nerves of the back. I The 111. trapezius. - 1st day. The m. latissimus dorsi. J The mm. rhomboidei and their nerves. The m. levator scapute. The n. accessorius and the nerves from the cervical plexus which supply the trapezius. The a. transversa colli and its two terminal branches (viz. the ramus descendens and the ramus asceiidens). The posterior belly of the m. omo-hyoideus. The a. transversa scapula; and n. suprascapularis. -2nd day. This dissection must be completed lu two days, in order that the dissector of the head and neck may be enabled to con- tinue the deeper dissection of the back. The first day's work 1-3 6THE UPPER EXTREMITY 38 should comprise — (i) the reflection of the skin ; (2) the dissection of the cutaneous nerves and vessels; and (3) the cleaning of the latissimus dorsi and trapezius muscles. The remainder of the dissection can be undertaken on the second day. Reflection of the Skin.—The following incisions are necessary;—1. From the tip of the coccyx upwards, along the middle line of the body, to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. 2. From the upper end of the foregoing medial incision transversely, to the tip of the acromion of the scapula. 3. From the lower extremity of the median incision in a curved direction laterally and forwards, along the crest of the ilium, to within two inches of the anterior superior iliac spine. 4. An oblique incision from the spine of the first lumbar vertebra, upwards and laterally, to the posterior fold of the axilla, and along the latter to the arm. The two large flaps which are now mapped out upon the back must be carefully raised from the subjacent fatty tissue. Reflect the upper triangular flap first, and then the lower flap. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).- In subjects which have been allowed to lie for some time on the back the superficial fascia is usually more or less infiltrated with fluid which has gravitated into its meshes, otherwise it has the ordinary characters of superficial fascia (p. 5). Dissection.—In searching for the cutaneous nerves cut boldly down through the superficial fascia, in the direction in which the nerves run (Fig. 17), until the plane is reached at which the superficial and deep fascia blend. It is here that the main trunks are to be found and in a well injected subject the cutaneous arteries will serve as guides. A more rapid way of finding the cutaneous nerves in this region is to reflect the superficial and deep fascia laterally from the vertebral spines in one layer ; the nerves are then found as they issue from the muscles. This plan, however, should only be adopted by the senior student. Vasa Cutanea, Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves).—The cutaneous nerves of the back are derived from the posterior branches of the spinal nerves. As the posterior branches pass backwards, they subdivide into medial and lateral divisions. Both of these supply twigs to the muscles amongst which they lie; but one or the other also contains some sensory fibres which come to the surface, in the shape of a cutaneous nerve, to supply the skin. In the thoracic region the iipper six or seven cutaneous nerves are the terminations of the medial branches of the posterior rami of the thoracic nerves. They become super- ficial close to the vertebral spines, and are to be sought for near the median plane. It is not uncommon to find one or more of them piercing the trapezius one or two inchesDISSECTION OE 'I’lIE BACK 39 lateral to the line of emergence of the others. I’he branch which conies from the second thoracic nerve is the largest of the series; and it may be traced laterally towards the shoulder, (ilutjuus niaximus PvXternal branches of posterior divisions of lumbar nerves External oblique muscle Trigonum Petili Serralus anterior Serratiis posterior inferior Latissimus dorsi Great occipital nerve cervicis(O.T. complexus) Third occipital nerve Sterno-mastoid Small occipital nerve Trapezius ius capitis Cervical nerves to trapezius Accessory nerve Ascending br. of transverse cervical arte Levator scapulae Descending br. of trs. artery and ner\ e to rhomboids Rhomboldeus minor I Infra- spinatus 'eres major ^ lomboideus i‘ major H Triangular Space I 1 I Latissimus dorsi Trapezius (reflected) Rhomboideus major Teres major Deltoid Fig. 17.—Dissection of the Superficial Muscles and Nerves of the P>acU. across the spine of the scapula. The lower five or six cutaneous nerves in the thoracic region are the terminal twigs of the lateral branches of the posterior rami of the thoracic nerves; and, consequently, they must be looked for at a short distance from the middle line of the back. 'I'hcy reach the surface by piercing the latissimus dorsi muscle on the I—3 c40 THE UPPER EXTREMITY line of the angles of the ribs and the lateral margin of the sacrospinalis muscle. In every case the cutaneous branches derived from the thoracic nerves turn laterally in the super- ficial fascia, and may be traced for a varying distance in this direction. It is important to note that the area of skin supplied by each of these cutaneous nerves is placed at a lower level than the origin of the posterior branches from which it arises. In the lumbar region three cutaneous nerves reach the surface by piercing the lumbar fascia at the lateral margin of the sacrospinalis muscle, a short distance above the ilium. They are the terminal twigs of the lateral branches of the posterior rami of the three upper lumbar spinal nerves; and they differ from those above, inasmuch as they turn downwards over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin of the gluteal region (Fig. 17). The cutaneous arteries which accompany these nerves come from the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Muscles connecting the Limb to the Dorsal Aspect of the Trunk.—These are five in number, and are arranged in two strata. Two form the superficial stratum, viz. the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi. Both are broad, flat muscles which cover the greater part of the dorsal aspect of the trunk, from the occiput above to the ilium below. The trapezius lies over the back of the neck and the thorax. The latissimus dorsi is placed lower down. The deeper stratum of muscles, composed of the levator scapulae and the two rhomboid muscles, is placed under cover of the trapezius. Dissection.—The trapezius should now be cleaned. This muscle belongs only in part to the dissector of the upper e.xtremity. The portion of it which lies above the prominent spine of the seventh cervical vertebra is the property of the dissector of the head and neck, and must be dissected by him. The two dissectors should work in conjunction with each other ; and when the entire muscle is exposed, each should give the other an opportunity of studying it in its entirety. In cleaning the trapezius the limb must be placed in such a position as will render the fibres of the muscle tense. If the dissection is being made on the right side, the arm must be placed close to the trunk, and drawn downwards, whilst the scapula is dragged well forwards over the end of the block which supports the thorax. A transverse cut is now to be m.ade through the superficial and decji fascim, from the seventh cervical spine laterally. This incision will be found to coincide with the direction of the fibres of the muscle at this level. From this point work gradually downwards, raising both faseix in a continuous layer from the surface of41 DISSECTION OF THE BACK the muscle. The knife must always be carried in the direction of the muscular fibres: and care must be taken to leave none of the thin, filmy deep fascia behind. As the direction of the fibres changes the position of the arm must also be changed to keep the fibres which are being cleaned on the stretch. In the case of the left trapezius, the student must make the incision through the fascia, along the lower margin of the muscle, and work upwards to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra. In removing the fascia from the trapezius, and indeed throughout the whole dissection of the back, the cutaneous nerves must be carefully preserved, in order that the dissector of the head and neck may have an opportunity of establishing their continuity with the trunks from which they arise. M. Trapezius.—The trapezius is a flat, triangular muscle, which lies, in its entire extent, immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. It has a very long origin, which extends along the median plane, from the occiput above to the level of the last dorsal vertebra below. It arises from—(i) the medial Fig. 18.—Upper Surface of the Right Clavicle. Sterno'hyoid third or less of the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone and the external occipital protuberance ; (2) the ligamentum nuchge and the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra; (3) the tips of the spines of all the thoracic vertebrae, as well as the supraspinous ligaments which bridge across the intervals between them (Fig. 17). In the lower cervical and upper thoracic regions the tendinous fibres by which the muscle arises lengthen out so as to form a flat tendon, which, taken in conjunction with the corresponding aponeurosis of the opposite side, exhibits an oval outline. As the fibres of the trapezius pass laterally they converge, to gain an insertion into the two bones of the shoulder-girdle. The occipital and upper cervical fibres incline downwards, and, turning forwards over the shoulder, are inserted into the lateral third of the posterior border of the clavicle (Fig. 1 8); the loiver cervical and upper thoracic fibres pass more or less trans- versely to gain an insertion into the medial border ofTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 42 the acromion and the upper margin of the spine of the scapula j while the lower thoracic fibres are directed upwards and, at the base of the scapula, end in a flat, triangular tendon, which plays over the smooth surface at the root of the scapular spine, and is inserted into a rough tubercle on the spine of the scapula immediately beyond this (Fig. 24, p. 55). To facilitate the movement of the tendon upon the bone a small bursa mucosa is interposed between them. The trapezius is supplied by the accessory Jierve and by twigs from the third and fourth cervical nerves. It is an elevator and depressor of the shoulders, add an adductor of the scapula. Dissection.—The latissimus dorsi is now to be dissected. It is a difficult muscle to clean, not only on account of the varying direction of its fibres, but also because its upper part is generally very thin, and its upper border ill-defined. Near the spines of the vertebrm its upper portion is overlapped by the trapezius, but in the greater part of its exteni it is subcutaneous. Both layers of fascia should be raised at the same time from its surface, and its fibres may be stretched by raising the arm and folding it under the neck. The origin of the latissimus dorsi in the lumbar region is effected through the medium of the superficial lamina of the lumbar fascia, a dense tendinous aponeurosis, which covers the sacrospinalis in the loins (Fig. 19). Clean this structure thoroughly. The attachment of the muscle to the crest of the ilium, and its slips of origin, from the lower ribs, must be carefully defined ; at the same time, the posterior and lower part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen should be cleaned, so that its relation to the latissimus dorsi may be studied. As the latissimus dorsi sweeps over the inferior angle of the scapula it receives an accession of fibres from that bone. This fleshy slip may be brought into view, when the muscle is cleaned, by relieving the tension of the muscular fibres, and then turning the upper margin of the muscle laterally. The slip in question is apt to be mistaken for a piece of the teres major muscle upon which it lies. M. Latissimus Dorsi.—The latissimus dorsi is a wide, flat muscle, which covers the back from the level of the sixth thoracic vertebra down to the crest of the ilium (Fig. i 7, p. 39). It arises—(i) from the tips of the spinous processes of the lower six thoracic vertebrte and the supraspinous ligaments in connection with them; (2) from the superficial lamella of the fascia lumborum (Fig. 19); (3) by a thin tendinous origin from a small extent of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium in front of the fascia lumborum (Fig. 143, p. 385); (4) by three or four digitations from the lower three or four ribs; and (5) by a fleshy slip from the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula (Fig. 24, p. 55). By means of its origin from the posterior lamella of lumbar fascia, it receives an indirect attachment to the spines of the lumbar and upper sacralDISSECTION OF THE BACK 43 vertebrae, and also to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. The costal slips of origin interdigitate with the lower digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. The fibres of the latissimus dorsi converge rapidly as they approach the lower part of the scapula. The highest fibres pass almost horizontally towards this point; the lowest fibres ascend almost vertically; whilst the intermediate 1. Serratus posterior inferior. 2. I.,atissimu.s dorsi. 3. Transversus abdominis. 4. Obliquus internus. 5. Obliquus externus. 6. Fascia transversali.s. 7. Sacrospinalis. 8. Quadratus lumborum. 9. Psoas major. fibres show varying degrees of obliquity. As a result of this convergence of fibres, the muscle is greatly reduced in width; and it sweeps over the inferior angle of the scapula in the form of a thick, fleshy band, which winds round the lower margin of the teres major muscle to gain insertion,- by means of a narrow, flat tendon, into the floor of the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79). This insertion cannot be studied at present, but will be seen later on. With the teres major muscle the latissimus dorsi forms the posterior fold of the axilla. At first it is placed on the dorsal aspect of44 THE UPPER EXTREMITY the teres major, then it is folded round its distal border, and finally it is inserted in front of it. To this peculiar relation- ship of the two muscles is due the full, rounded appearance of the posterior axillary fold. The latissimus dorsi is supplied by the thoracodorsal nerve. It is an adductor, retractor, and medial rotator of the upper extremity. Two Intermuscular Spaces.—A triangular space mapped out by the distal border of the trapezius, the proximal border of the latissimus dorsi, and the base of the scapula, will now be noticed (Fig. 22, p. 53). Within these limits a small portion of the rhomboideus major can be seen, and also a varying amount of the wall of the thorax—a part corresponding to the sixth intercostal space and the borders of the ribs which bound it above and below. It is well to note that this is the only part of the thoracic parietes on the posterior aspect of the trunk which is uncovered by muscles. Further, between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi will generally be observed to overlap the posterior border of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. Sometimes, however, a narrow triangular interval exists between the two muscles, in which is seen a small part of the internal oblique muscle. This space is termed the trigonum lumbale {Fetiti) (Fig. 17, p. 39). Reflection of the Trapezius.—On the second day the dissector should begin by reflecting the trapezius, working, if possible, in conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck. Divide the muscle about two inches from the spines of the vertebrae, and throw it laterally towards its insertion. The trapezius is very thin at its origin, and the greatest care must therefore be taken not to injure the subjacent rhomboid muscles. The small bursa between the tendon of insertion of the lower part of the trapezius and the triangular root of the spine of the scapula must not be overlooked. Nerves and Vessels of Supply to the Trapezius.—A dis- section of the deep surface of the reflected muscle will reveal the following structures :— a. The accessory nerve. b. Two or three nerves from the cervical plexus. c. The ascending branch of the transverse cervical artery. These constitute the nervous and vascular supply of the trapezius. The nerves have already been displayed by the dissector ofDISSECTION OF THE BACK 45 the head and neck, as they cross the posterior triangle of the neck. The branches from the cervical plexus come from the third and fourth cervical nerves. On the deep surface of the trapezius they join with branches of the accessory nerve to form the subtrapezialplexus, from which twigs proceed into the substance of the muscle. The terminal twig of the accessory nerve can be traced nearly to the lower margin of the trapezius. The ascending branch of the transverse cervical artery, which accompanies the accessory nerve, must be followed to the anterior border of the trapezius, where it will be seen to spring from the trunk of the artery. Dissection.—The posterior belly of the omo-hyoicl, the transverse scapular artery, and suprascapular nerve can now be displayed by dis- secting towards the upper margin of the scapula, and removing carefully, the loose fatty tissue in this locality. The dissector of the head and neck must take part in this dissection. M. Omo-hyoideus.—Arteria Transversa Scapulse (O.T. Suprascapular Artery) and N. Suprascapularis (Supra- scapular Nerve).—The slender posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle will be seen to arise from the upper border of the scapula immediately medial to the incisura scapulae. It also derives fibres from the ligament which bridges across this notch. It is supplied by a twig from the ansa hypoglossi. The transverse scapular artery will be noticed to enter the supra- spinous fossa of the scapula by passing over the superior transverse scapular ligament, whilst the suprascapular nerve proceeds into the fossa under cover of that ligament. Dissection.—Draw the scapula well over the edge of the block which supports the thorax of the subject. The two rhomboid muscles are thus rendered tense, and the cleaning of their fleshy fasciculi greatly facilitated. The dorsalis scapuhe nerve should Ije secured at this stage, so that it may be preserved from injury in the further dissection of the region. It can best be detected by dissecting in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator scapula; about one inch to the medial side of the medial angle of the scapula (Fig. 17, p. 39). It is accompanied by the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery, and it will afterwards be traced upon the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles when they are reflected. Mm. Rhomboidei.—The two rhomboid muscles constitute a thin quadrangular sheet of muscular fibres, which proceeds from the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula.THE UPPER EXTREMITY 46 The rhomboideus minor is a narrow, ribbon-like fleshy band which runs parallel to the upper border of the major rhomboid. It springs from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas, the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and frequently also from the spine of the first thoracic vertebras. It is in- serted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular surface at the root of its spine (Fig. 24, p. 55). It is entirely covered by the trapezius. The rhomboideus 7najor arises from the upper four or five thoracic spines, and the corresponding parts of the supraspinous ligaments. Its fibres run obliquely downwards and laterally, and end in a tendinous cord, which receives insertion into the base of the scapula close to the inferior angle. From this point, up to the commencement of the spine, the tendinous cord is firmly bound to the base of the scapula by areolar tissue (Fig. 24, p. 55). The greater part of the rhomboideus major is covered by the trapezius ; only a small portion near the inferior angle of the scapula lies immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. M. Levator Scapulae (O.T. Levator Anguli Scapulae).— This is an elongated muscle which arises by four more or less tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae, and passes downwards and backwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula from the medial angle to the spine. It is supplied by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves. Dissection.—In cleaning the levator scapuke muscle care must be taken of the nerves which pass to it from the cervical plexus, and also of the dorsalis scapuke nerve and the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery which lie under cover of it near the base of the scapula. The dissector of the head and neck has an interest in the levator scapula, and when it has been studied by both dissectors it should be divided midway between its origin and insertion, and the lower portion should be turned laterally. The dorsalis scapula nerve has already been secured in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator scapula, and it has still further been exposed by the reflection of tlie latter muscle. It may now be displayed in its whole length, together with the descending branch of the transverse cervical artery, which it accompanies, by reflecting the rhomboidei muscles. These should be detached from the ligamentum nucha and the vertebral spines, and be thrown laterally towards the base of the scapula. In doing this care must be taken of the serratus posterior superior, a thin muscle which lies subjacent, and is apt to be injured. Nervus Dorsalis Scapulae (O.'I’. Nerve to the Rhomboids).— This is a long slender twig which arises in the neck from the fifth cervical nerve, usually in common with the upper rootDISSECTION OF THE BACK 47 of the long thoracic nerve. It pierces the scalenus medius, and then proceeds downwards, under cover of the levator scapulae, to the deep surface of the rhomboidei muscles to which it is distributed. The dorsalis scapulae nerve likewise supplies one or two twigs to the levator scapulae. The dorsalis scapulae nerve sometimes pierces the levator scapulae in two or more branches, which unite in a plexi- form manner. Ramus Descendens of the Art. Transversa Colli (O.T. Posterior Scapular Artery).—The descending branch of the transverse cervical artery takes origin in the lower part of the neck close to the lateral margin of the levator scapulae. At first it proceeds medially under cover of this muscle, but soon changing its direction it runs downwards along the base or vertebral border of the scapula under cover of the rhomboid muscles (Fig. 17, p. 39). It gives numerous branches to both costal and dorsal aspects of the scapula, and its terminal twigs may enter the latissimus dorsi. One large branch usually passes backwards, in the interval between the rhomboid muscles or through the greater rhomboid, to reach the trapezius muscle; and another branch, the supraspinal, is given to the supraspinatus muscle, and the structures superficial to it. Reflection of Latissimus Dorsi.—Divide the muscle by carrying the knife from its upper margin, about three inches from the vertebral spines, obliquely downwards to a point a little way behind its digitation from the last rib. In raising the medial portion of the muscle care must be taken of the subjacent serratus posterior inferior. The attachment of the latissimus dorsi to the crest of the ilium and to the lumbar aponeurosis can now be verified. The lateral part of the muscle is next to be thrown forwards, so that the three costal digitations may be seen from their dee]) aspect, and also for the purpose of displaying the termination of the sub- scapular artery and the thoracodorsal nerve. These are found upon fhe deep surface of the muscle at the inferior angle of the scapula. The Removal of the Upper Extremity.—After the costal attachments of the latissimus dorsi have been displayed the upper e.xtremity must be removed. Draw the extremity away from the body ; detach the costal slips of the latissimus, cut through the serratus anterior about one inch from the vertebral border of the scapula; divide the dorsal scapular nerve, the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, the transverse scapular artery and the suprascapular nerve. Cut through the axillary vessels and the cords of the brachial plexus at the lateral border of the first rib; detach the anterior skin flap48 THE UPPER EXTREMITY from the anterior wall of the thorax and take the extremity to a separate table for further dissection. SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION. In the dissection of this region the following parts must be studied:— 1. Cutaneous nerves of the shoulder. 2. Deep fascia. 3. Deltoid muscle. 4. Sub acromial bursa. 5. Anterior and posterior circumfle.x vessels of the humerus. 6. Axillary (circumflex) nerve. 7. Circumflex scapular artery. 8. Subscapularis muscle. 9. Supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and teres major muscles. 10. Bursce in connection with the shoulder-joint. 11. Suprascapular nerve and transversa colli artery. 12. Acromio-clavicular joint, and the coraco-acromial arch. Muscles inserted into the Clavicle and Scapula.—The insertions of the muscles which have already been divided should first engage the attention of the student. They should be carefully defined and the precise extent of each studied. Begin with the omo - hyoid, which springs from the superior border of the scapula ; then deal in the same way with the levator scapula:, 7-ho/nboidetis t)iinor and major, which are attached to the vertebral border of the bone, and the serraius anterior, which is inserted into the costal aspect of the medial and inferior angles, and the intervening portion of the vertebral border of the scapula. The insertion of the pectoralis minor into the coracoid process, and of the trapezius into both clavicle and scapula, should also be thoroughly ex- amined. When this has been done these divided muscles may be removed, with the exception of about half an inch of each, which it is advisable to leave attached to the bones for future reference. Dissection.—A block should now be placed in the axilla, and the skin removed from the upper and lateral aspects of the shoulder as low down as the insertion of the deltoid. Commence in front and proceed from before backwards, taking care to leave the fatty superficial fascia in its place. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—In the superficial fascia, which is thus laid bare, cutaneous nerves from two different sources must be secured and traced, in order that the area of skin supplied by each may be recognised. They are :— 1. Posterior supraclavicular nerves from the third and fourth cervical nerves. 2. Cutaneous branches from the axillary nerve (circumflex). The posterior supraclavicular nerves have already been observed crossing the lateral third of the clavicle and the insertion of the trapezius under cover of the platysma. They have been divided in removing the limb. If the cut49 SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION ends be secured and followed, they will be found to spread out over the lateral and posterior part of the upper portion of the deltoid region. Lateral end of clavicle Margin of acromion process Pectoralis major Cephalic vein Deltoid Cutaneous branches of axillary (O.T. circumflex) nerve piercing deltoid Lateral brachial cutaneous branch of axillary (O.T. circumflex) nerve Biceps Lateral head of triceps Brachialis Upper branch of dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm Cephalic vein Lower branch of dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm Brachioradialis Tendon of triceps Olecranon Extensor carpi radialis longus Fig. 20.—The Deltoid Muscle and the lateral aspect of the Arm. The cutaneous branches of the axillary nerve consist— (rt) of a large branch which turns round the posterior border of the deltoid muscle, the lateral brachial cutaneous nerve, VOL. I—4THE UPPER EXTREMPl'Y 5° and (d) of several fine filaments which pierce the substance of the deltoid muscle, and appear at irregular intervals on its surface. The latter are difficult to secure, but the main branch can be easily found by carefully dividing the superficial fascia along the posterior border of the deltoid. On everting this border very little dissection is required to expose the nerve hooking round it about two and a half inches above the insertion of the deltoid (Fig. 22). It breaks up into branches which supply the skin over the lower portion of the deltoid region. Deep Fascia.—A firm but thin fascia covers the subscapu- laris muscle. Into this some of the fibres of the serratus anterior are usually inserted at the vertebral border of the scapula. The strongest and most conspicuous fascia in this region is that which covers the exposed part of the infraspinatus muscle on the dorsal aspect of the scapula. It is firmly attached to the limits of the fossa in which that muscle lies, and presents other very apparent connections. Thus a strong septum, proceeding from its deep surface, will be noticed to dip in between the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles, and then, as it proceeds forwards, it gives a thin covering to the teres minor, teres major, and the deltoid. In- deed, it may be said to split into two lamellee—a superficial and a deep,—which as they pass forwards enclose between them the deltoid muscle. Dissection.-—Depress the scapula and retain it in this position by means of hooks. The fibres of the deltoid are thus rendered tense, and the coarse fasciculi of the muscle may be cleaned. M. Deltoideus.—The deltoid muscle, as its name implies, is triangular in form. It is composed of coarse fasciculi, and covers the shoulder-joint. It arises from the anterior border of the lateral third or half of the clavicle (Fig. 18, p. 41), from the lateral border of the acromion and from the lower border of the spine of the scapula (Fig. 24, p. 55). Its origin closely corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. The fasciculi of which the muscle is formed converge rapidly as they are traced distally, and finally they are attached, by a pointed tendinous insertion, to the deltoid eminetice on the middle of the lateral surface of the body of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79). Its nerves of supply come from the axillary {circumflex') nerve.51 SHOUI,DER—SCAPULAR RPXUON Dissetlion.—The limb should now be placed on its posterior aspect, and the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus and the axillary nerve should be traced backwards through the quadrilateral space. The bound- aries of the space should be defined and cleaned at the same time. Quadrilateral and Triangular Spaces.—The quadrilateral space is purely the result of dissection; it has no real I Siibscapiilar artery Descending brandi Circumflex scapula; artery ’osterior circumflex artery and axillary nerve Nerve tt> teres .minor Descending branch of transverse cervical artery Suprascapular nerve and transverse scapular artery process Capsule of shoulder-joint Tendon of supraspinatus Tendon of infra- spinatus I'k;. 21. — Dissection of the Posterior Scapular Region. existence until the parts are artificially separated from each other. When viewed from the front, the boundaries will be seen to be formed—(a) laternlly, by the upper part of the body of the humerus; {d) medially, by the long head of the triceps; {c) above, by the lower margin of the subscapularis ; {d) and belo7v, by the uj)per border of the teres major. When viewed from behind, the upper botindary of the quadrilateral space will be seen to be formed by the teres minor; the I—1 a52 THE UPPER EXTREMITY other boundaries are the same as those seen from the front. The term triangular space is the name given to another intermuscular interval which becomes apparent when the muscles in this region are cleaned and separated. It is placed nearer the inferior angle of the scapula, and the long head of the triceps intervenes between it and the quadrilateral space. It is bounded above by the subscapularis; below by the teres major; and laterally by the long head of the triceps. The circumflex artery of the scapula should be followed into this space, and cleaned up to the point where it dis- appears around the axillary border of the scapula under cover of the teres minor. Dissection.—Having now traced the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus and the axillary nerve as far as possible, through the quadrilateral space, the position of the limb should be reversed. Turn it so that its dorsal surface is uppermost, and, everting slightly the posterior border of the deltoid, define the boundaries of the space as they are seen from behind. At the same time clean the circumflex vessels and the axillary nerve as they issue from the space to reach the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Care must be taken not to injure the branch which the axillary nerve gives to the teres minor. The deltoid muscle may now be divided close to its origin and thrown downwards ; in doing this preserve the acromial branch of the thoraco- acromial artery which runs in the line of incision beneath the deltoid. A large bursa which lies between the deltoid and upper aspect of the capsule of the shoulder-joint must also be kept intact. Parts under cover of the Deltoid.—The deltoid covers the upper part of the humerus, and is wrapped round the shoulder-joint so as to envelop it behind, laterally, and in front. The full rounded appearance of the .shoulder will now be seen to be due to the muscle passing over the expanded proximal end of the humerus. When the head of the bone is displaced the muscle passes more or less vertically downwards from its origin, and the dislocation is recognised by the squareness or flatness of the shoulder. Behind, the deltoid covers the muscles which arise from the dorsal aspect of the scapula as they pass laterally to reach the great tubercle of the humerus ; in front, it covers the upper part of the biceps muscle, and overlaps the coracoid process and the muscles attached to it. In relation also to the deep surface of the deltoid are the circumflex vessels of the humerus and axillary nerve. Bursa Subacromialis (Subacromial Bursa).—This is a large bursal sac which intervenes between the acromion and deltoid above, and the upper aspect of the capsule of the shoulder- joint below. It facilitates the play of the proximal end of the humerus, with its capsule, on the under aspect of the acromion and deltoid. Pinch a portion of it up with the53 SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION forceps and make an incision into it.^ The finger may then be introduced into its interior to explore its extent and con- A. M. teres major Triang. space Quadrangular space M. triceps cap. long. N. radialis (O.T. musculo-spiraO AMbrachialis M. triceps cap. lat. N. to m. triceps, cap. med. N. to m. anconjeus M. triceps, cap. med. N. Eplcond. A. prof, bracbii ram. post. N. cut. anlib. dorsalis M. brachialis Spine of scapula trans. scapulse (O.T. suprascapulai) * M. supraspinaiu.s N. suprascapularis : M. delioideus subacromalis N. cutan. brach. lat. M. triceps, cap. lat. N. radialis (O.T. musculo-spiral) A. prof, brachii ram. ant. N. flex. carp. uln. Epicond. lat. .'V. inteross. recurr. M. anconatus Mm. exi. dig. comm, et dig. quint. M. ext. carp uJnaiLs M. infraspinatus A. circumflex scap. (O.T. dorsalis scap. M. teres minor M. subscapularis M. infraspinatus Capsular artic. .■Xrticulat. humeri; N. 10 m. teres minor M- deltoideus N. axillaris (O.T. - circumflex) ram. sup. N. axillaris, inf. Fig. 22.—Hack of the Ann. nections. In some cases it is divided by internal partitions into two or more chambers or loculi. * If llie wall of the bursa be quite entire a blowpipe may be tlirust into >1. It can then be distended, and if unilocular it may be infhited to about the size of a hen's egg. It varies, however, much in size in different individuals.54 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Dissection. —The branches of the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus and the axillary nerve should now be dissected out on the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Arterise Circumflexae Humeri (O.T. Circumflex Arteries).— The atieria circutnflexa hutneri posterior has been already observed to arise within the axilla from the posterior aspect of the axillary artery a short distance distal to the subscapular branch. It at once proceeds backwards, through the quadri- lateral space, and, winding round the surgical neck of the humerus, it is distributed in numerous branches to the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. Several twigs are also given to the shoulder-joint and the integument. It anastomoses with II. Transverse section of the humerus immediately be- low the tuberosities. A.A. Axillary artery. P.C. Posterior circumflex artery. A.C. Anterior circumflex artery. C.H. Axillary nerve. a. Articular branch. T.M. Pranch to teres minor. C. Cutaneous branches. Fig. 23.—Diagram of the Circumflex Vessels and .Xxillary Nerve. the acromial branch of the thoraco-acromial artery and the art. circumflexa humeri anterior, and also, by one or more twigs which it sends distally to the long head of the triceps, with the profunda branch of the brachial artery. The termination of the arteria ciraanflexa hunien anterior can now be more satisfactorily studied, and its anastomosis with the art. circumflexa humeri posterior established if the injection has flowed well. By this anastomosis the arterial ring which encircles the proximal part of the humerus is completed. Nervus Axillaris (O.'P. Circumflex Nerve).—'Phis nerve accompanies the posterior circumflex artery, and supplies— (^^) muscular branches to the deltoid and teres minor; {l>) cutaneous branches to the skin over the distal pait of the deltoid ; and {c) an articular twig to the shoulder-joint. TheSHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION 55 following is the manner in which it is distributed. It springs from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, turns round the lower border of the subscapularis, and proceeds backwards, with the posterior circumflex artery of the M. Uitissimus dorsi (scapular slij)) M. triceps (cap. long.) Groove for circumflex artery of scapula (O.T. dorsalis scapula;) Fig. 24.—Uorsum of Scapula with the Attachments of the Muscles mapped out. humerus, through the quadrilateral space. .Reaching the posterior aspect of the limb, it divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The articular Iminch takes origin from the trunk of the nerve, and enters the joint below the subscapularis muscle. The posterior division gives off the 1—4 hTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 56 branch to the teres minor, and, after furnishing a few twigs to the posterior part of the deltoid, is continued onwards, as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the arm, which has already been dissected in the superficial fascia over the lower part of the deltoid (Fig. 22). The nerve to the teres minor is distinguished by the presence of an oval gangliform swelling upon it. The anterior division proceeds round the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus, and ends near the anterior border of the deltoid. It is distributed by many branches to the deep surface of this muscle, whilst a few fine filaments pierce the deltoid and reach the skin. M. Teres Major.—The part which the teres major pla)'s in the formation of the quadrilateral and triangular spaces has already been seen. It arises from the oval surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the inferior angle of the bone (Fig. 24, p. 55), and also from the septa which the infra- spinous fascia sends in to separate it from the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. It is inserted into the medial lip of the intertubercular sulcus on the upper part of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79), and is supplied by the lower sub- scapular nerve. Insertions of Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis Major.—The narrow, band-like tendon of the latissimus dorsi lies in front of the insertion of the teres major. From its inferior margin a small fibrous slip will be observed passing downwards, beyond the lower margin of the teres major, to find attachment to the long head of the triceps (Fig. 22). This is a rudiment of the dorsi-epitrochlearis muscle of the lower animals. The tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi should now be separated from each other. They will be found to be more or less adherent, and a small bursa mucosa will be discovered between them. The insertion of the latissimus dorsi into the bottom of the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus may now be satisfactorily studied. The tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, which is attached to the lateral lip of the intertubercular sulcus, may also be conveniently e.xamined at this stage (p. 13). A separation of the sternal and clavicular portions of the muscle will bring into view the two lamina; which constitute the tendon, and the following points may be noted in connection with these :—(«) that they are continuous with each other below, or, in other words, that the tendon is simply folded upon itself; [b) that the posterior lamina extends upwards on the humerus to a higher level than the anterior, and that a fibrous expansion proceeds upwards from its superior border, to seek attachment to the capsule of the shoulder-joint and the lesser tuberosity of the humerus ; (c) that the lower border is connected with the fascia of the upper arm. Articulatio Acromio - Clavicularis (Acromio - clavictilarSHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION 57 Joint).—This is a diarthrodial joint, and the ligaments which bind the bones together are :— Ligaments proper to the f i. Superior ) joint . . . \ 2. Inferior / ‘ ^ Accessory ligaments—Coraco-clavicular | The siiperior acromio-clavicular ligament is a broad band, composed of stout fibres, which is placed on the upper aspect of the joint. The inferior acromio-clavictclar ligafnent which closes the joint below is not so strongly developed. In front and behind, these ligaments are connected with each other so as to constitute a capsule. The joint should now be opened, when it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane. An imperfect meniscus is also usually present. It is wedge-shaped, and connected by its base to the superior ligament, whilst its free margin is directed downwards between the bones. Lig. Coracoclaviculare (Coraco-clavicular Ligament).—This powerful ligament binds the under surface of the clavicle to the base of the coracoid process. When thoroughly cleaned and defined it will be seen to consist of two parts, which are termed the conoid and the trapezoid ligaments. The ligamentum conoideum placed upon the posterior and medial aspect of the lig. trapezoideum is broad above, where it is attached to the coracoid tubercle of the clavicle 5> P- 12), and somewhat narrower below at its attach- ment to the medial part of the root of the coracoid process. The ligamentum trapezoideum is the anterior and lateral part. Above, it is attached along the trapezoid line of the clavicle (Fig. 5, p. 12), whilst below it is fixed to the upper aspect of the coracoid process. In the recess between these two ligaments a bursa mucosa will usually be found. Arcus Coracoacromialis (Coraco-acromial Arch). — It is necessary to examine this arch at the present stage, as the next step in the dissection will, in a great measure, destroy it. It is the arch which overhangs the shoulder-joint and protects it from above. It is formed by the coracoid process, the acromion, and a ligament—the coraco-acromial—which stretches between them. The ligamentum coracoacrotniale is a strong band of a some- what triangular shape. By its base it is attached to the lateral58 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY border of the coracoid process, whilst by its apex it is attached to the extremity of the acromion (Fig. 39, p. 91). The coraco-acromial arch plays a very important part in the mechanism of the shoulder; it might almost be said to form a secondary socket for the humerus. We have already noted the large bursa which intervenes between the acromion and the muscles immediately covering the capsule of the shoulder-joint, to facilitate the movements of the upper end of the humerus on the under surface of the arch. Dissection.—The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles which arise from the dorsal surface of the scapulee, and the subscapularis, which takes origin from the costal surface of the scapula, may now be examined. In order to obtain an uninterrupted view of the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion must be divided, with the saw, close to its junction with the spine of the scapulae (Fig. 21, p. 51). Divide also the fascia which covers the teres minor muscle, and reflect it towards the infraspinatus. By this means the septum from the infraspinous fascia, which dips in between the two muscles, will be demonstrated, and their separation rendered easy. Care must be taken not to injure the circumflex artery of the scapula which passes between the teres minor and the bone. M. Supraspinatus.—The supraspinatus muscle arises from the medial two-thirds of the supraspinous fossa, and also to a slight degree from the supraspinous fascia which covers it. From this origin the fibres converge, as they pass laterally, and, proceeding under the acromion, they end in a short, stout tendon, which is inserted into the uppermost of the three impressions on the greater tubercle of the humerus (Fig. 33, p. 79). This tendon is closely adherent to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The supraspinatus is covered by the trapezius, and in the loose fat which intervenes between this muscle and the supraspinous fascia some twigs of the superficial cervical artery ramify. It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve., and it is an abductor of the upper extremity. M. Teres Minor.—This is the small muscle which lies along the lower border of the infraspinatus. It arises from an elongated flat impression on the dorsal aspect of the axillary border of the scapula, and from the septa of the infraspinous fascia which intervene between it and the two muscles between which it lies, viz. the infraspinatus and teres major. It is inserted into the low'est of the three impressions on the greater tubercle of the humerus, and also, by fleshy fibres, into the body of the bone for about half an inch below this (Fig. 36, p. 84). Towards its insertion it isSHOULDER—SCAPUr.AR REGION 59 separated from the teres major by the long head of the triceps brachii. The teres minor is supplied by a branch from the axillary 7ierve. It is an adductor and lateral rotator of the upper extremity. M. Infraspinatus.—This muscle arises from the whole of the infraspinous fossa, with the exception of a small part of it near the neck of the scapula. It also derives fibres from the fascia which covers it. Its tendon of insertion is closely adherent to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and is attached to the middle impression on the greater tubercle of the humerus (Fig. 36, p. 84). It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve, and is an adductor and lateral rotator of the upper extremity. M. Subscapularis.—The subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the subscapular fossa, with the exception of a small portion near the neck of the scapula ] it also takes origin from the groove which is present on the costal aspect of the axillary border of the bone (Fig. 33, p. 79). Its origin is strengthened by tendinous intersections, which are attached to the ridges which are present on the costal surface of the scapula. The fleshy fibres thus derived' converge upon a stout tendon, which is inserted into the smaller tubercle of the humerus; a few of the lower fibres, however, gain independent insertion into the body of the humerus below the tubercle. As the muscle proceeds laterally to its insertion, it passes under an arch formed by the coracoid process and the con- joined origin of the short head of the biceps brachii and the coraco-brachialis. By dissecting between the upper border of the muscle and the root of the coracoid process, a bursa of some size will be discovered. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the shoulder-joint through an aperture in the capsule: in other words, its walls are directly continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule. This can readily be ascertained by making an incision into it. An instrument can then be passed into the joint. The subscapularis is supplied by the upper and loiver subscapular nerves. It is an adductor and medial rotator of the up[>er extremity. Dissection.—The transverse scapular artery and suprascapular nerve nuist now he followed to their distribution on the dorsum of the scapula, they have already been traced to the superior border of the scapula. Divide the infraspinatus muscle about an inch and a half from its insertion,6o THE UPPER EXTREMPl'Y taking care not to injure the subjacent vessels. Pull the muscle cautiously backwards, and its nerve of supply with the terminations of the transverse artery of the scapula and the circumfle.x artery of the scapula will be e.xposed. Treat the supraspinatus muscle in a similar manner (Fig. 37, p. 86). Arteria Transversa Scapulae (O.T. Suprascapular Artery).— 'Phis vessel enters the supraspinous fossa by passing over the ligament which bridges across the incisura scapularis. It divides, under cover of the supraspinatus muscle, into a supra- spinous and an infraspinous branch. The former supplies the supraspinatus muscle, and gives off the chief nutrient artery to the scapula; the latter proceeds downwards in the great scapular notch, and under cover of the inferior transverse scapular ligament, to reach the deep surface of the infra- spinatus muscle to which it is distributed. At the superior border of the scapula the transverse artery of the scapula gives off a branch {ramus subscapularis') which enters the subscapular fossa under cover of the subscapularis muscle. Nervus Suprascapularis (Suprascapular Nerve).—This nerve accompanies the transverse artery of the scapula, but it enters the supraspinous fossa by passing through the incisura scapulse, under cover of the upper transverse ligament of the scapula. It supplies the supraspinatus, and ends in the infra- spinatus muscle. It usually sends two articular hvigs to the posterior aspect of the shoulder-joint, viz. one while in the supraspinous fossa, and the second as it lies in the infra- spinous fossa. Arteria Circumflexa Scapulae (O.T. Dorsalis Scapulae Artery).—This vessel has already been observed to arise from the subscapular branch of the axillary and enter the triangular space. While there it supplies one or two ventral branches, which pass under cover of the subscapular muscle to the subscapular fossa, and a larger infrascapular branch which runs downwards in the interval between the teres major and teres minor to the inferior angle of the scapula (Fig. 21, p. 51). After these branches are given off, the circumflex scapular artery leaves the triangular space by turning round the axillary border of the scapula, under cover of the teres minor. It now enters the infraspinous fossa, where it ramifies and supplies branches to the infraspinatus muscle. Anastomosis around the Scapula.—An important and free anastomosis takes place around the scapula. Three main6i SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION blood-vessels take part in this, viz.—(a) the transverse artery of the scapula; (^) ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery ; and (c) the subscapular artery. The ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery (O.T. posterior scapular) runs downwards in relation to the vertebral border of the scapula, and dispenses branches upon both the dorsal and costal aspects of the bone. The subscapular artery runs downwards and medially along the axillary border of the scapula, and at the inferior angle some of its terminal branches anastomose with the terminal twigs of the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery. The transverse artery of the scapula is brought into communication with the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery at the upper margin, by an anastomosis in the neighbourhood of the medial angle of the bone. But still more distinct anastomoses take place upon the dorsal and costal aspects of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa, branches of the transverse artery of the scapula inosculate with twigs from the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery; whilst in the infraspinous fossa, free communications are established between the circumflex arteiy of the scapula, the transverse artery of the scapula, and the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery. On the ventral aspect of the scapula, the ventral branch of the transverse artery of the scapula, the ventral branches of the circumflex artery of the scapula, and the ventral branches of the ramus descendens of the transverse cervical artery join to form a network. The importance of this free communication between the blood-vessels in relation to the scapula will be manifest when it is remembered that two of the main arteries, viz. the ramus de.scendens of the transverse cervical artery and the transverse artery of the scapula spring indirectly from the first part of the subclavian; whilst the third, viz. the subscapular, arises from the third part of the axillary. When, therefore, a ligature is applied to any part of the great arterial trunk of the upper limb, between the first stage of the subclavian and the third part of the axillary, this anastomosis affords ample means of re-establishing the circulation. Dissection.—Detach the subscapularis from the scapula and lift it laterally to its insertion. This will afford a better view of its relation to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and also of the subscapular bursa. In a well-injected subject the ventral anastomosis can likewise be made out. Ligamentum Transversum Scapulae Superius (O.T. Supra- scapular Ligament) and Lig. Trans versum Scapulae Inferius (O.T\ Spinoglenoid Ligament).—These are two ligamentousTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 62 bands, which are placed in relation to the transverse artery of the scapula and the suprascapular nerve. The ^lpper transverse ligament of the scapula bridges across the incisura scapulae and converts it into a foramen. It lies between the transverse artery of-the scapula and the suprascapular nerve : the former being placed above it, and the latter below it. Not infrequently it is ossified. The inferior transverse ligament of the scapula is a weaker band; it bridges across the transverse artery of the scapula and the suprascapular nerve as they pass through the great scapular notch. On the one hand, it is attached to the lateral border of the spine of the scapula, and on the other, to the back part of the neck of the scapula. FRONT OF THE ARM. In this dissection the following parts have to be studied :— 1. Cutaneous vessels and nerves. 2. Brachial aponeurosis. 3. Brachial artery and its branches. 4. Median, ulnar, radial, and musculo cutaneous nerves and branches of the last two. 5. Biceps, coraco-brachialis, and brachialis muscles. In conjunction with this dissection, it is convenient to study the triangular space in front of the elbow, and also to trace the cutaneous nerves to their ultimate distribution in the skin of the forearm. Surface Anatomy.—In a muscular limb the prominence formed by the biceps muscle along the front of the upper arm is very apparent. Every one is familiar with the rounded swelling which it produces when powerfully contracted in the living subject. On either side of the biceps there is a feebly marked furrow, and ascending in each of these there is a large superficial vein. In the lateral furrow is the cephalic vein; in the lower part of the medial furrow the basilic vein. In the upper part of the medial bicipital sulcus is an elongated bulging produced by the subjacent coraco-brachialis muscle. This is useful as a guide to the lower part of the axillary and the upper part of the brachialis arteries, which lieFRONT OF THE ARM 63 immediately behind and to the medial side of it. The humerus is thickly clothed by muscles; but towards its lower part the two epicondyloid ridges, leading down to the epicondylar eminences, may be felt. The lateral ridge is the more salient of the two, and therefore the more evident to touch. The bony points around the elbow require to be studied Fig. 25.—Relation of bones of Elbow to the surface. Dorsal view ; elbow fully extended. Fig. 26. — Relation of the bones of the Elbow to the surface. Dorsal view ; elbow bent. with especial care. It is by a proper knowledge of the normal relative positions of these that the surgeon is able to distinguish between the different forms of fracture and dis- location which so frequently occur in this region. First note the medial epicondyle of the humerus. This constitutes a prominence, appreciable to the eye; grasp it between the finger and thumb, and note that it inclines dorsally as well as medially. In a well-developed, fully extended arm, the lateral epicondyle does not form a projection on the surface, but can be felt at the bottom of a slight depressionTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 64 on the dorsal aspect of the limb. It becomes apparent to the eye as a prominence when the elbow is semi-flexed. The olecranon produces a marked projection on the dorsum of the elbow between the two epicondyles. It is placed slightly nearer to the medial than to the lateral epicondyle. The loose skin which covers the olecranon moves freely over its subcutaneous surface, owing to the interposition of a bursa mucosa. The different positions which are assumed by the olecranon, in relation to the epicondyles of the humerus in the movements of the forearm at the elbow-joint, must be carefully examined. This can best be done by placing the thumb on one epicondyle, the middle finger on the other, and the forefinger on the olecranon. The limb should then be alternately flexed and extended, so as to make clear the extent of the excursion performed by the olecranon. In full extension at the elbow-joint the three prominences lie in the same horizontal line; when the forearm is bent at a right angle the three bony points are placed at the angles of an equilateral triangle, the apex of which points distally. When the forearm is extended a marked depression on the dorsal aspect of the elbow indicates the position of the articula- tion between the radius and the humerus. Immediately distal to this the head of the radius lies close to the surface, and can readily be felt, especially when it is made to roll under the finger by inducing alternately the movements of pronation and supination. The head of the radius is placed about an inch distal to the lateral epicondyle. As the skin of the forearm must be reflected in the pur- suit of the cutaneous nerves, it is well, at this stage, to study also the external anatomy of this segment of the limb. In its proximal half the radius is deeply imbedded in muscles, but in its distal half it can be felt, and its styloid process on the lateral side of the carpus can be readily distinguished. On the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the radius immediately above the radiocarpal joint, and nearer the lateral than the medial border of the limb, a prominent bony tubercle may be felt. This is the high ridge which forms the lateral wall of the sharply cut groove on the dorsal aspect of the radius in which the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus muscle plays. The sinuous dorsal border of the ulna is subcutaneous, and may be followed by the finger throughout its entire length ; as the elbow is approached it leads directly on65 FRONT OF THE ARM to the subcutaneous surface on the back of the olecranon. In cases of suspected fracture, therefore, this border affords valuable information. The styloid process of the ulna may be detected, immediately above the wrist, and it should be observed that this does not extend so far distally as the corresponding process of the radius. The rounded distal end of the ulna makes a marked projection on the medial and dorsal aspect of the limb immediately proximal to the wrist- joint, and lying in the groove between it and the styloid process the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris may be felt. Reflection of Skin.—The skin should be removed from the limb as far down as the radio-carpal joint. It is necessary to do this in order that a connected view may be obtained of the cutaneous nerves and the superficial veins. But at the same time the skin should not be cast aside, as it forms a most efficient protective wrapping for the part even after it has been detached. Make one long incision along the middle of the anterior aspect of the arm and the volar surface of the forearm down to the radiocarpal articulation. A second incision carried transversely round the distal end of the forearm, immediately above the radio-carpal joint, will enable the dissector to reflect the skin in two large flaps, medially and laterally. In the fatty superficial fascia which is then exposed, the superficial structures may be traced. It is well to begin with the nerves, as these are not so apparent and, therefore, more liable to injury than the veins. But the dissection of the veins should be carried on concurrently with that of the nerves. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—These are very numerous, and are derived from several sources. In addition to the two medial cutaneous nerves, which spring from the brachial plexus, there are the terminal cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, three branches derived from the radial nerve and one — the intercostobrachial nerve—form the second thoracic nerve. These seven nerves may be classified into a medial and a lateral group as follows :— 1. N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis upper branch, 2. N. cutaneus antibrachii dorsalis lower branch, 3. N. cutaneus antibrachii lateralis, / Distributed mainly upon the lateral part of the arm and forearm. 1. N. intercostobrachialis, 2. N. cutaneus brachii posterior, 3. N. cutaneus brachii medialis, 4. N. cutaneus antibrachii medialis. The two dorsal cutaneous nerves of the forearm pierce the deep fascia about the middle of the lateral surface of the arm immediately distal to the insertion of the deltoid, and VOL. I—5 {Distributed mainly upon the medial part of the arm and forearm.66 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY I in close relation to the lateral intermuscular septum. The Posterior brachial cutaneous nerve Intcrcosto-brachial nerve Pranch of medial cutaneous nerve forearm Medial brachial cutaneous nerve Dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm, \ upper and lower branches J Medial cutaneous nerve of forearm . Cephalic vein Basilic vein Median basilic vein Median cephalic Lateral cutaneous nerve of forearm Profunda vein Cephalic vein Basilic veins Median vein Palmar cutaneous branch of median nerve Palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar Palmar cutaneous branch of siiperfici»Tl branch of radial nerve Posterior supra-clavicular nerves Lateral brachial cutaneous nerve I r I I Fig. 27.—Cutaneous Nerves on the Front of the Upper Extremity. smaller upper branch appears a short distance above the other. It follows the cephalic vein, and can be tracedFRONT OF THE ARM 67 distally as far as the elbow. Its filaments are distributed to the skin over the lateral and anterior part of the distal half of the arm. The larger loiver bra?ich can be followed as far as the wrist, and not infrequently its terminal filaments even reach the dorsum of the hand. It supplies the skin on the dorsal aspect of the forearm. It should be borne in mind that the skin on the lateral aspect of the limb, above these nerves and over the deltoid, is supplied by the cutaneous branches of the axillary nerve and the posterior supraclavicular nerves of the cervical plexus (p. 48). The lateral aUatieous nerve of the forearm is the terminal part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. It will be found in front of the elbow-joint where it pierces the deep fascia on the lateral side of the tendon of the biceps brachii. It is a large nerve, and proceeds distally behind the median cephalic vein. The skin, both upon the volar and dorsal aspects of the lateral side of the forearm, is supplied by this nerve, and it is distributed by two main branches. The larger volar branch can be traced as far as the skin over the ball of the thumb. A few of its terminal twigs pierce the fascia above the wrist, and join the radial artery, by which they are conducted to the dorsal aspect of the carpus. The dorsal branch may be followed on the dorsal aspect of the limb as far as the wrist. The intercosto-brachial nerve can usually be traced half-way down the arm; but the area of skin which it supplies is somewhat variable. The posterior cutaneous ne?-ve of the arm is a branch of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve. It proceeds downwards and backwards on a deeper plane, and crosses posterior to the intercosto-brachial nerve. Its filaments extend upon the back of the arm as low as the elbow-joint. The medial brachial cutaneous 7ierve will be found piercing the deep fascia, to become superficial, half-way down the medial side of the arm. Its twigs may be followed, in the sui^erficial fascia, as far as the olecranon. On the medial side of the arm, on its dorsal aspect, three nerves therefore have been traced. P'rom the medial to the lateral side these are: the medial brachial cutaneous nerve, the intercosto-brachial nerve, and the posterior cutaneous brachial branch of the radial nerve (Fig. 28). The medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm (internal 1—5 «THE UPPER EXTREMITY 68 cutaneous nerve) is chiefly destined for the supply of the Lateral cutaneous nerve of arm / Posterior cutaneous nerve of \ arm / Posterior cutaneous ner\’e of \ forearm, upper branch Intercosto-brachial nerve Medial cutaneous nerve of arm Posterior cutaneous nerve of fore- arm, lower branch Medial cutaneous nerve of forearm, ulnar branch Lateral cutaneous nerve of forearm, dorsal branch perficial division of radial (O.T. musculo- spiral = radial nerve of O.T.) Dorsal branch of ulnar nerve Posterior .supraclavicular nerves Fig. 28.—Cutaneous Nerves on the Dorsal Aspect of the Upper Extremity. skin of the forearm. It appears through the deep fascia half-way down the medial side of the arm close to the69 FRONT OF THE ARM basilic vein, and a short distance in front of the medial cutaneous nerve of the arm. It at once divides into a volar and an ulnar branch. The volar brarich runs down- wards behind (but sometimes in front of) the median basilic vein, and it is distributed to the skin over the medial and volar aspect of the forearm. The ulnar branch, inclining medially, proceeds distally in front of the medial epicon- dyle of the humerus, to reach the skin on the medial and dorsal aspect of the forearm. A small twig is frequently given by the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the skin over the biceps muscle. This pierces the deep fascia close to the axilla. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—The superficial veins of the anterior aspect of the arm and the volar aspect of the forearm may now be cleaned; but in all proba- bility they are already for the most part exposed. At least three veins are usually seen ascending along the volar aspect of the forearm, the basilic vein along the medial border, the cephalic vein along the lateral border, and, midway between the two former, the median vein of the forearm. When the median vein reaches the depression in front of the elbow it is joined by a short wide vein which pierces the deep fascia of the forearm and establishes an anastomosis between the deep and the superficial veins of the forearm. This connecting trunk is called the profunda vein. After receiving this tributary the median vein of the forearm divides into two branches which diverge from each other like the limbs of the letter V. The lateral of the two branches is the median cephalic vein, the medial branch is the median basilic vein. The media?i cephalic vein passes obliquely, proximally and laterally, across the front of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm, and joins the cephalic vein. After it has received the median cephalic vein, the cephalic vein ascends along the lateral bicipital sulcus, continues proxi- mally in the groove between the deltoid and the pectoralis major, crosses the deltopectoral triangle, dips beneath the clavicular part of the pectoralis major crossing in front of the pectoralis minor, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and terminates in the axillary vein. The median basilic vein is a short wide vessel which passes proximally and medially towards the medial epicondyle. It is larger than the median cephalic vein and has a less oblique I70 THE UPPER EXTREMITY course. As it approaches the medial epicondyle of the humerus it joins the basilic vein. The median basilic vein is the vessel commonly selected when the surgeon has recourse to venesection. Therefore the relations of the vein are of practical importance. The dissector should note the following points regarding it :—(i) that it crosses a thickened band of deep fascia known as the lacertus fibrosus of the biceps brachii ; (2) that the lacertus fibrosus separates it from the brachial artery which the vein also crosses; (3) that the volar branch of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm usually passes behind it, although in many cases it crosses in front of the vein. The basilic vein having received the median basilic vein runs proximally, on the medial surface of the arm, in the medial bicipital sulcus; about half-way up the arm it pierces the deep fascia, close to the spot at which the median cutaneous nerve of the forearm emerges, and at the lower border of the posterior wall of the axilla it becomes the axillary vein. The arrangement of the veins of the forearm is extremely variable. In many cases the median vein is absent, and the cephalic and basilic are united, in the anti- cubital region, by a large, oblique, anastomosing channel which lies in the position of the median basilic vein and appears to be the main continuation of the cephalic trunk, the proximal part of the latter vessel being much reduced in size. Lymphoglandulse (Lymph Glands).—If the superficial fascia be searched upon the medial side of the limb, and immediately above the elbow, one or two minute lymph glands will be found in relation to the basilic vein. These are the superficial cubital glands, and they are of interest to dissectors as they are the first to enlarge and become painful in cases of dissection-wound. Fascia Brachii (Brachial Fascia).-—^The deep fascia should now be cleaned by the removal of the fatty superficial layer. It forms a continuous envelope around the arm, but at no point does it show a great density or strength. Above, it is continuous with the axillary fascia and the fascia covering the pectoralis major and the deltoid. The tendons of these two muscles are closely connected vvith it—a certain proportion of their tendinous fibres running directly into it. Below, it is firmly fixed to the bony prominences around the elbow, and in front it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon71 FRONT OF THE ARM of the biceps brachii. The latter fibres constitute the lacertus fibrosus, and form a very distinct band (O.T. semilunar or bicipital fascia) which, continuous with the fascia above and below, bridges across the brachial artery, and is lost upon the pronator teres muscle on the medial side of the forearm. The fascia brachii may be reflected by making an incision through it along the medial line of the front of the arm. In throwing the medial portion medially, the dissector must leave the lacertus fibrosus in position. This may be done by separating it artificially from the general aponeurosis by an incision above and below it. Lateral inter- muscular septum Fig. 29.—Diagram (after Turner) to show how the Arm is divided by the intermuscular septa and bone into an anterior and posterior compartment. These compartments are represented in transverse section. A.s the foregoing dissection is proceeded with, it becomes evident that septa or partitions pass in between the muscles from the deep surface of the investing fascia brachii. Two of these possess a superior strength, and obtain direct attach- ment to the humerus. They are the lateral and medial intermuscular septa. The connections of these cannot be fully studied at present, but it is important that the student should understand their relations at this stage. In the course of the dissection of the arm they will gradually be displayed. 1 he septum intermusculare mediale is the stronger and more distinct of the two. It is attached to the medial epi- condylar ridge, and may be followed proximally as high as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. The septum intermusculare laterale is fixed to the lateral epicondylar I—5/jTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 72 ridge, and extends up the arm as high as the insertion of the deltoid. The dissector should note that these septa divide the arm into an anterior and a posterior osteo-fascial compartment. Structures in the Anterior Compartment.—The anterior osteo-fascial compartment of the arm has been opened into by the reflection of the front part of the fascia brachii. The three muscles which specially belong to this region are the biceps brachii, brachialis, and the coraco-brachialis. The Fig. 30.—Transverse section through the Distal Third of the Right Arm. biceps brachii is the most superficial muscle: under cover of it, and closely applied to the anterior aspect of the humerus, is the brachialis; whilst the coraco-brachialis is the slender muscular belly which lies along the medial side of the biceps in its upper part. But, in addition, two muscles of the fore- arm will be observed extending upwards into this compartment of the arm, to seek origin from the lateral epicondylar ridge of the humerus : they are the brachioradialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus. They are closely applied to the lateral side of the brachialis. The brachial artery, with its vence comites, extends through the region in relation to the medial margin of the biceps brachii, and all the terminal branches of theFRONT OF THE ARM 73 cords of the brachial plexus, with the exception of the axillary (circumflex), will be found for some part of their course in this region. The radial nerve (musculo-spiral), it is true, almost at once proceeds to the back of the limb, but it again comes to the front, and may be found in the lower part of the lateral side of the arm, by separating the origins of the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus from the brachialis, and dissecting deeply in the interval between them. Dissection.—In carrying out this somewhat extensive dissection, the main object of the dissector should be to keep the brachial artery as un- disturbed as possible until he has satisfied himself as to its relations. He is therefore, in the first instance, advised to clean only those parts of the muscles which are in immediate relationship to the vessel and its branches. The divided brachial nerves, with the axillary artery and vein, should be arranged in proper order, and then tied to a small piece of wood about inches long \e.g. a piece of a penholder), held transversely. By means of a loop of string this can then be fastened to the coracoid process. By this device the dissection of the arm will be greatly facilitated. The dissection of the entire length of the brachial artery should be carried out at one and the same time, and its termination in the radial and ulnar arteries should be defined. Arteria Brachialis (Brachial Artery) is the direct continua- tion of the axillary artery; it begins, therefore, at the distal border of the teres major, and it passes distally and slightly laterally to the cubital fossa where, at the level of the neck of the radius, it divides into its two terminal branches—the radial and the ulnar arteries. In the proximal part of the arm it lies to the medial side of the humerus, but as it approaches the elbow it passes to the front of the humerus. This change of position must be borne in mind when pressure is applied to the vessel with the view of controlling the flow of blood through it. In the upper part of the arm the pressure must be directed laterally and backwards, and in the lower part directly backwards. Relations.—The brachial artery is superficial in the whole of its length, therefore, to expose it, it is only necessary to reflect the skin and the fascia, but it is overlapped, from the lateral side, by the medial margins of the coraco-brachialis and biceps brachii (see Figs. 30, 31). At the bend of the elbow it is crossed superficially by the lacertus fibrosiis which intervenes between it and the median basilic vein. The basilic vein lies to the medial side of the artery and on a somewhat posterior plane. In the distal part of the arm it is separated from the artery by the fascia brachii; but74 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY in the proximal part, after the vein has pierced the fascia, it comes into closer relationship with the artery. The two venae comites are closely applied to the sides of the artery, and the numerous connecting branches which pass between them, both in front of and behind the artery, make the relationship still more intimate. Behind the brachial artery there are four muscles. From above downwards they are (i) the long head of the triceps which is separated from the artery by the radial nerve and the N. musculo- cutaneus ' N. medianus, N. cut. antib. med. A. brachialis V. basilicis N. ulnaris N. coraco- brachialis • Dorsal cutaneous nerve of arm (O.T. internal cutan. of musculo-spiral) Sept, inter- ' muse. lat. Hrs. of A. prof. ■ brachii N. radialis. (musculo-spiral) Fig. 31.—Transverse section through Middle of Upper Arm. profunda artery. (2) The medial head of the triceps. (3) The insertion of the coraco-brachialis. (4) In the remainder of its course the brachialis forms the posterior relation. With the exception of the musculo-cutaneous nerve all the terminal branches of the brachial plexus lie in relation to the brachial artery. The median nerve lies laterally and somewhat anteriorly in the proximal half of the arm ; it crosses anterior to the artery at the level of the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and in the distal half of the arm and the cubital fossa it is to the medial side of the artery. The ulnar nerve and the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm lie close to the medial side of the artery as far as the75 FRONT OF THE ARM insertion of the coraco-brachialis, then they leave it. The ulnar nerve inclines backwards, pierces the medial inter- muscular septum and, passing behind the medial epicondyle, enters the forearm. The median cutaneous nerve of the forearm inclines forwards and medially, pierces the fascia brachii and becomes superficial. The radial nerve is behind the upper part of the artery, but it soon leaves it by passing distally and laterally into the sulcus or the radial nerve between the medial and the lateral heads of the triceps. Branches of the Brachial Artery.—A considerable number of branches spring from the brachial artery. Those which arise from its lateral aspect are irregular in number, origin, and size. They are termed the lateral branches, and are distributed to the muscles and integument on the front of the arm. The series of medial branches which proceed from the medial and posterior aspect of the parent trunk are named as follows as we meet them from above downwards:— 1. A. profunda brachii. 3. A. nutricia humeri. 2. collateralis ulnaris superior. 4. A. collateralis ulnaris inferior. The arteria profunda brachii (O.T. superior profunda) is the largest of the branches which spring from the brachial trunk. It takes origin about an inch or so distal to the lower margin of the teres major, and associates itself with the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve, which it accompanies to the back of the arm. Consequently, only a short part of the vessel is seen in the present dissection. It soon disappears from view between the long and medial heads of the triceps. The arteria collateralis ulnaris superior (O.T. inferior pro- funda) is a long slender artery, which can be recognised from the fact that it follows closely the course which is pursued by the ulnar nerve. Its origin is somewhat uncertain. As a general rule, it issues from the brachial artery opposite the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, but very frequently it will be seen to arise in common with the profunda brachii. It pierces the medial intermuscular septum, with the ulnar nerve, and descends behind the aponeurotic partition to the interval between the olecranon and the medial epicondyle of the humerus. The arteria nutricia humeri may arise directly from the brachial trunk, or take origin from the superior ulnarTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 76 collateral artery. It should be sought for at the distal border of the insertion of the coraco brachialis, and the dissector should not be satisfied until he has traced it into the medullary foramen of the bone. When the nutrient artery Lower collateral ulnar arterj' (O.T. anastomotic) ewe to ancona^us .Triceps (lat. head) l.ateral inter* muscular septum Radial nerve (O.T. musculo-., spiral) Anterior branch of profunda • artery Lateral inter- muscular septum’ Lower collateral ulnar artery (O.T. ana- stomotic) Radial nerve (O.T. mu.sculo-spiral) Profunda artery (O.T. superior profunda) Ulnar nerve Upper collateral ulnar arter^^ (O.T. inferior profunda) Nerve to lateral head of triceps ^Nerve to long head of triceps Posterior •‘brachial cutane- ous nerve (O.T. int. cutan. of musculo-spiral) Lateral anti- brachial cutaneous nerves (O.T. e.\t. cutan. of musculo- spiral) Posterior branch of pro- funda arter>- Ulnar nerve Upper collateral ulnar artery Nerve to medial head of triceps (O.T. ulnar collateral) Medial inlerniuscular septum Fig. 32.—Diagram to show relation of Radial Nerve (O.T. Musculo-spiral) to the Humerus and of Vessels and Nerves to the Intermuscular Septa. is not seen in its usual position it will probably be found in the dissection of the back of the arm, taking origin from the profunda artery. The a?ie7ia collateralis ulnaris ijiferior (O.T. anastomotica) arises about two inches proximal to the bend of the elbow, and runs medially upon the brachialis. It soon divides into a small anterior and a larger posterior branch. The anterior branch isFRONT OF THE ARM 77 carried distally in front of the medial epicondyle of the humerus, in the interval between the brachialis and the pronator teres. It anastomoses in this situation with the anterior ulnar recurrent artery. The posterior branch pierces the medial intermuscular septum and will be seen later on in the posterior compartment of the arm. The N. Cutaneus Brachii Medialis and Nervus Cutaneus Antibrachii Medialis (O.T. Lesser Internal Cutaneous and Internal Cutaneous Nerves).—Very little more requires to be said about these nerves. Their origin within the axilla has already been noted, and they have been traced to their distri- bution from the points where they pierce the investing fascia brachii. It only remains for the dissector to examine them in that part of their course in which they lie under cover of the fascia brachii. It will be observed that they both lie along the medial side of the brachial artery. The medial cutaneous nerve of the arm gives off, as a rule, no branches in this situation, except one or more twigs of communica- tion to the intercosto-brachial nerve. The medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm gives off the branch which pierces the fascia to supply the skin in front of the biceps brachii. Nervus Me^anus et Nervus Ulnaris (Median and Ulnar Nerves).—These large nerve trunks do not furnish any branches in the arm. The median nerve arises in the axilla by two heads from the lateral and medial cords of the brachial plexus. It proceeds distally upon the lateral and superficial aspect of the axillary and brachial arteries, until it approaches the level of the insertion of the coraco- brachialis. Here it lies in front of the brachial artery. Finally, it reaches the medial side of the vessel, and main- tains this position for the rest of its course in the arm. The ulnar ?ierve is the largest branch of the medial cord of the brachial plexus. It descends upon the medial side of the axillary and brachial arteries, and at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it encounters the superior ulnar collateral artery. Accompanied by this vessel, it leaves the brachial artery, passes backwards through the medial intermuscular septum, and it is continued downwards, upon the posterior aspect of this aponeurotic partition, to the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus. Dissection.—The muscles should now be thoroughly cleaned, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve and its branches dissected out.78 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Nervus Musculocutaneus.—The musculo-cutaneous nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus, at the lower border of the pectoralis minor. Inclining laterally, it perforates the coraco-brachialis, and appears between the biceps brachii and the brachialis. It proceeds obliquely distally between these muscles until it reaches the bend of the elbow, where it comes to the surface at the lateral border of the tendon of the biceps brachii. From this point onwards it has already been traced as the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm (p. 67). In the upper arm the musculo-cutaneous supplies branches to the three muscles in this region. The branch to the coraco-brachialis is given off before the parent trunk enters the substance of the muscle; the branches to the biceps brachii and brachialis issue from it as it lies between them. M. Coracobrachialis.—This is an elongated muscle, which takes origin from the tip of the coracoid process in con- junction with the short head of the biceps brachii. It pro- ceeds distally, along the medial margin of the biceps brachii, and obtains insertion into a linear ridge situated upon the medial aspect of the body of the humerus about its middle. M. Biceps Brachii (O.T. Biceps).—The biceps brachii muscle arises from the scapula by two distinct heads of origin. The short or medial head springs from the tip of the coracoid process in conjunction with the coraco-brachialis (Fig. 15, p. 34). The long ox lateral head is a rounded tendon, which occupies the intertubercular sulcus of the humerus. Its origin cannot be studied at this stage of the dissection because it is placed within the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Suffice it for the present to say, that it arises from an im- pression on the scapula immediately above the glenoid cavity. Both heads swell out into elongated fleshy bellies, which, at first, are closely applied to each other, and afterwards united in the lower third of the arm. Towards the bend of the elbow the fleshy fibres converge upon a stout, short tendon, which is inserted into the dorsal part of the tuberosity of the radius. This insertion will be more fully examined at a later period, but it may be noticed in the meantime that the tendon is twisted so as to present its margins to the front and dorsal aspect of the limb, and further, that a bursa mucosa is interposed between it and the volar smooth part of the radial tuberosity.79 FRONl' OF THE ARM The dissector has al- ready taken notice of the lacertus fibrosus, and has separated it artificially from the fascia brachii above, and from the fascia anti- brachii below. Observe now that it springs from the anterior margin of the tendon of the biceps brachii, and that it likewise receives some muscular fibres from the short head of the muscle. M. Brachialis (O.T. Brachialis Anticus).—The brachialis arises from the entire width of the anterior surface of the distal half of the body of the humerus, from the medial inter- muscular septum, and from a small part of the lateral intermuscular septum above the brachioradialis. The origin from the bone is prolonged upwards in two slips which partially embrace the insertion of the deltoid. The fibres converge to be inserted into the ba.se of the coro- noid process of the ulna by a short, thick tension. The muscle lies partly under cover of the biceps brachii, but projects be- yond it on either side. It is overlapped on its medial side by the pronator teres, and on the lateral side by t the brachioradialis and ex- Subscapularis Supraspinatus Latissinius dorsi Pectoralis major Teres major Deltoid Coraco'brachialis Brachioradialis Kxtensor carpi radjalis longus Kxlensors Pronator radii teres and flexors *'iG. 33.—Anterior aspect of Municrus with Muscular Attachments mapped out.8o THE UPPER EXTREMITY tensor carpi radialis longus. Its deep surface is closely connected to the anterior part of the capsule of the elbow- joint, its chief nerve of supply, from the musculo-cuianeous, Fig. 34.—The Deltoid Muscle and the lateral aspect of ll>o Ann. Biceps brachii Lateral head of triceps Olecranon Extensor carpi radialis longus Lateral end of clavicle Margin of acromion process Pectoralis major ^ Cephalic vein Deltoid Cutaneous branches of-'Vxillary nerve piercing deltoid Lateral brachial cutaneous branch of axillary (O.T. circumflex) nerve Brachialis Upper branch of dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm Cephalic vein Lower branch of dorsal cutaneous nerve of forearm Brachioradialis Tendon of triceps has already been secured, but it also receives one or two small twigs from the radial {^musculo-spirn!) nerve which are given off under cover of the brachioradialis. Dissection.—Separate the brachioradialis from the brachialis muscle,FRONT OF THE ARM 8i and dissect out the radial nerve, with the anterior terminal branch of the profunda brachii artery, which lie deeply in the interval between them. Here also the anastomosis between the profunda brachii artery and the radial recurrent arteries may be made out, in a well-injected subject ; and the twigs which are given by the radial nerve to the brachialis, the brachioradialis, and the extensor carpi radialis longus, should be looked for. Fossa Cubitalis (O.T. Antecubital Fossa).—This is a slight hollow in front of the elbow-joint. It corresponds to the fossa poplitea of the lower extremity, and within its area the brachial artery divides into its two terminal branches. In the first instance, consider the structures which cover it. Some of these have already been removed, they are the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. Within the superficial fascia are the median basilic and median cephalic veins, the volar branch of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm. These structures constitute the coverings of the fossa. The fossa is triangular. Its base is directed proximally, and is usually regarded as being formed by a line drawn between the two epicondyles of the humerus. The medial boundary is the pronator teres muscle, and the lateral boundary the brachioradialis. The meeting of the two muscles distally constitutes the apex of the fossa. The boundaries must first be cleaned, then the contents of the fossa may be dissected. Within the fossa is the termination of the brachial artery and the proximal parts of the radial and ulnar arteries, into which it divides. To the lateral side of the main vessel is placed the tendon of the biceps brachii, and to its medial side the median nerve. A quantity of loose fat is also present. The ulnar artery leaves the space by passing under cover of the pronator teres; the radial artery is continued distally beyond the apex of the fossa, overlapped by the brachioradialis. The median nerve disappears between the two heads of the pronator teres, and the tendon of the biceps brachii inclines posteriorly, between the two bones of the forearm, to reach its insertion into the radial tuberosity. When the fatty tissue has been thoroughly removed the floor of the space will be revealed. This is formed by the brachialis and the supinator muscles. In this situation the brachialis is closely applied to the anterior aspect of the elbow-joint, whilst the supinator is wrapped round the upper part of the radius. VOL. I—6THE UPPER EXTREMITY 82 Now divide the lacertus fibrosus, and separate the bounding muscles widely from each other. Other structures come into view, but they cannot, strictly speaking, be regarded as lying within the space proper. They are—(i) the radial nerve. N. cut. antib. med. N. medianus ' A. recurr. ulnarls ant. N. to m. pronat. teres •• N. to m. Hex. carp. rad. A. ulnaris Lacertus fibrosus M. pronat. teres, deep head - N. cutan. antibrachii lat. lam. volaris V. cephalica M. brachialis N. cutan. antib. lat. ram. dorsalis M. flex. carp. rad. M. palmaris long. N. cut. antib. med. V, basilica A. radialis N. cutan. antib. lat. ram. volaris V. basilica N. cutan. antib. med. Fascia brachii V. basilica A. brachialis A. recurr. radialis M. supinator M. brachioradialis N. radialis (O.T. musculo-spiral) Lacertus fibrosus N. radialis ram. superf. (O.T. radial) N. radialis ram. prof. Tendon of m. biceps brachii 1 V. mediana Fig. 35.—Dissection of the Left Antecubital Fossa. (musculo-spiral), the anterior branch of the profunda brachii artery, and the recurrent branches of the radial artery, lying deeply in the interval between the brachioradialis and the brachialis; (2) the anterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery and the anterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery, placed under cover of the pronator teres.DORSUM OF THE ARM 83 DORSUM OF THE ARM. In this region the following are the structures which_require to be studied :— 1. The triceps muscle. 2. The a. profunda brachii, and the n. radialis (musculo-spiral). 3. The a. collateral ulnaris superior, and the n. ulnaris. 4. The posterior branch of the a. collate>ralis ulnaris inferior. 5. The m. subanconreus. Dissection.—The skin has already been removed from the dorsum of the arm. The deep fascia should now be raised from the surface of the m. triceps, and its three heads cleaned and isolated from each other. To place the muscle on the stretch, the inferior angle of the scapula should be raised as high as possible, and the forearm flexed at the elbow-joint. The radial nerve, together with the a. profunda brachii, must at the same time receive the attention of the dissector. They should be followed back- wards between the heads of the triceps, and all their branches should be carefully preserved. M. Triceps Brachii (O.T. Triceps).—This muscle occupies the entire posterior osteo-fascial compartment of the upper arm. It arises by a long or middle head from the scapula, and by two shorter heads, lateral and medial, from the humerus. The fleshy fibres of these three heads join a common tendon, which is inserted into the top of the olecranon of the ulna. The superficial part of the muscle is, for the most part, formed hy the long head and the lateral head of the muscle. The medial head is deeply placed; only a very small portion of it appears superficially, in the lower part of the arm, on each side of the common tendon of insertion. The caput longum of the triceps arises, by a flattened tendon, from the rough triangular impression on the upper part of the axillary border and the lower aspect of the neck of the scapula (Fig. 15, p. 34). This tendon lakes origin in the interval between the teres minor and subscapularis muscles. The hvo humeral heads take origin from the posterior aspect of the humerus ; and if it be borne in mind that no fibres arise from the sulcus for the radial nerve and that the groove in- tervenes between the origins of the two heads, their rela- tions will be easily understood. The dissector should provide himself with a humerus, and, having first identified the sulcus for the radial nerve, proceed to map out the areas of attach-84 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Triceps (outer head) Deltoid Brachialis Musculo-spiral groove Teres minor ment of the humcral heads Infraspinatus triceps as they are exhibited in the dissected part. The caput later ale of the triceps arises from the lat- eral and posterior aspect of the body of the humerus, proximal to the sulcus for the radial nerve. It takes origin, by short tendinous fibres, along a line which descends verti- cally from the insertion of the teres minor above to the upper border of the sulcus for the radial nerve. But it also derives fibres from a strong aponeurotic bridge or arch, which is thrown over the groove, so as to give protection to the a. profunda brachii and the radial nerve. The strength and position of this arch can be tested by thrusting the handle of the knife distally and laterally in the sulcus for the radial nerve, and along the course of the nerve and artery under the lateral head of the triceps. By its distal end the arch is connected with the lateral intermuscular septum. The caput mediale of the triceps is placed distal to the sulcus for the radial nerve. It sends upwards, on the posterior aspect of the humerus, and along the medial margin of the groove, a Origin of e.\- tensors Medial epi- condyle Ancotiaius Fig. 36.—Dorsal aspect of the Humerus with Attachments of Muscles mapped out.DORSUM OF THE ARM 85 narrow pointed fleshy slip, which obtains origin from the bone as high as the insertion of the teres major muscle. Below, it widens out and arises, by short fibres, from the entire breadth of the posterior surface of the humerus. It also springs from the posterior surface of the medial intermuscular septum, and from the lower part of the corresponding surface of the lateral intermuscular septum. The medial head of the triceps, therefore, has very much the same origin from the back of the bone that the brachialis has from the anterior surface of the bone. The dissector should now study the co7nnwn tetidoji of insertion of the triceps. The long and the lateral heads end in a broad, flat tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the proximal surface of the olecranon, and at the same time gives off, on the lateral side, a strong expansion to the fascia of the forearm as it covers the anconaeus muscle. The short fleshy fibres of the medial head are, for the most part, inserted into the deep surface of the common tendon, but a considerable number find direct attachment to the olecranon, whilst a few of the deepest fibres are inserted into the loose posterior part of the capsule of the elbow-joint. These latter fibres have been described as a separate muscle under the name of subancomeus. The triceps is suppjjfcd by branches from the radial nerve. ™ Dissection.—In order that the radial nerve and the art. profunda brachii may l>e fully exposed, the lateral head of the triceps must be divided. Thrust the handle of a knife along the sulcus for the radial nerve, and under the muscle. This will give the direction in which the lateral head of the triceps should be severed. Beyond cleaning the nerve and its branches, and the art. profunda brachii, as they lie in the groove, no further dissection is necessary. Nervus Radialis (O.T. Musculo-Spiral Nerve).—The radial nerve is the direct continuation of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus after it has furnished in the axilla the two subscapular nerves, the thoracodorsal nerve, and the axillary nerve. In the first instance, the radial nerve proceeds distally, behind the distal part of the axillary artery and the proximal part of the brachial artery. It soon leaves the anterior aspect of the arm, however, and, inclining backwards, with the art. profunda brachii, enters the interval between the long and the medial heads of the triceps, and reaches the sulcus for the radial nerve. In this it passes round the back of the body of the I—6 aTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 86 humerus, under cover of the lateral head of the triceps, and on the lateral side of the limb it pierces the lateral intermuscular septum and appears in the anterior compartment of the arm. A. Spine of scapula N trans. scapulae (O.T. suprascapular) M. supraspinatus M. infraspinatus A. circumflex, scap. / (O.T. dorsalis L scap.) M. leres minor j— M. siibscapularis . M. teres major Triang. space Quadrangular space M. triceps cap. long, N. radialis (O.T. musculo-spiral) A. brachialis M. triceps, cap. lat. N. to m. triceps, cap. med. --- N. to m. anconaeus M. triceps, cap. med. - suprascapularis M. deltoideus N. ulnnris Epicond. med. N, flex. carp. uln. Olecranon Bursa subacromalis M. infraspinatus Capsular ariic. Articulat. humeri; N. to m. teres minor M. deltoideus I N. axillaris (O.T. :ircumfle,\)ram. sup. N. axillaris, ram. inf. N. cutan. brach. lat. M. triceps, cap. lat. N. radialis (O.T. musculO'Spiral) A. prof, brachli ram. anL . A. prof, brachii ram. post. N. cut. antib. dorsalis M. brachialis Epicond. lat. A. inleross. recurr. M. anconteus Mm. ext. dig. comm, el dig. quit M. ext. carp, ulns b IG. 37.^ Dissection of the dorsnl aspect of the Arm. The lateral head of the Triceps has been divided and turned aside to expose the sulcus on the Humerus for the radial nerve. Here it has already been exposed. It lies deeply in the interval between the brachialis on the medial, and the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus on the lateral side. It ends at the level of the lateral epicondyle ofDORSUM OF THE ARM 87 the humerus by dividing into two terminal branches, viz. the ramus superficialis (O.T. radial) and the ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous). The radial nerve presents, therefore, very different relations as it is traced from its origin to its termination: (i) between the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps which support it behind, and the axillary and brachial arteries which are placed in front of it; (2) between the long and the medial heads of the triceps; (3) in the sulcus for the radial nerve between the bone and the lateral head of the triceps ; (4) in the interval between the brachialis on the medial, and the brachioradialis and extensor carpi radialis longus on the lateral side. The branches which proceed from the radial nerve are viuscular, cutaneous, and terminal. The cutaneous branches are two in number, and have already been traced. They are—(i) the n. cutaneus brachii posterior, and (2) and (3) the nervi cutanei antibrachii dorsales. The muscular branches are distributed to the three heads of the triceps, to the anconaeus, to the lateral fibres of the brachialis, to the brachic-radialis, and to the extensor carpi radialis longus. The branches to the three last-named muscles spring from the trunk of the nerve after it has pierced the lateral intermuscular septum. The branch to the medial head of the triceps is a long slender nerve, termed the ulnar collateral nerve, on account of its association with the ulnar nerve in the arm. The branch to the anconaeus is a long slender twig which passes through the substance of the medial head of the triceps on its way to the anconaeus (F"ig. 37). The terminal branches are the ramus superficialis (O.T. radial), which is a purely cutaneous nerve, and the ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous), which is continued into the dorsal part of the forearm as the dorsal interosseous nerve, and is distributed to the muscles on the dorsal aspect of the forearm, and to the radiocarpal joint. These nerves will be followed later. Arteria Profunda Brachii (O.T. Superior Profunda Artery). —This artery has been already observed to take origin from the brachial trunk, immediately below the lower margin of the teres major muscle. It accompanies the radial nerve and its relations to the three heads of the triceps and the sulcus for the radial nerve of the humerus are exactly the same as 1—66THE UPPER EXTREMITY 88 those of the nerve. Before it reaches the lateral inter- muscular septum, it ends by dividing into two terminal branches —an anterior and a posterior. The anterior and smaller branch accompanies the radial nerve through the septum, and follows it distally to the anterior aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent arteries. The posterior larger branch descends on the posterior surface of the lateral intermuscular septum, and anastomoses on the back of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus with the interosseous recurrent artery. The branches which proceed from the art. profunda brachii are chiefly distributed to the three heads of the triceps muscle. One twig ascends between the long and lateral heads of the muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery of the humerus. In this way, a link is established between the axillary and brachial systems of branches. Dissection.—The ulnar nerve, with the superior ulnar collateral artery, and the slender ulnar collateral nerve, can now be advantageously followed, as they proceed distally upon the posterior aspect of the medial inter- muscular septum. They are covered by a thin layer of fleshy fibres belonging to the medial head of the triceps. The posterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery, after it has pierced the medial septum, should also be dissected out. As a rule, a transverse branch passes between this vessel and the posterior terminal part of the a. profunda brachii. It lies upon the posterior aspect of the humerus, immediately above the elbow-joint, and can be exposed by dividing the triceps muscle a short distance above the olecranon. At the same time the fleshy fibres of the medial head of the triceps, which are inserted into the posterior part of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and constitute the subancomcus muscle, should be examined. Lastly, raise the lower piece of the triceps from the elbow-joint, and look for a small bursa mucosa between the deep surface of the triceps tendon and the upper aspect of the olecranon. ARTICULATIO HUMERI (SHOULDER-JOINT). Before proceeding to the dissection of the forearm it is advisable to study the articulatio humeri (shoulder-joint), because if this is deferred too long the ligaments are apt to become dry. In no joint in the body is the movement so free, and so varied in its character, as in the shoulder-joint. This is rendered necessary by the many functions which are performed by the upper limb. P'reedom of motion is provided for in two ways—(i) by the large size of the head of the humerus, in comparison with the small dimensions and shallow characterARTICULATIO HUMERI 89 of the glenoid cavity—the socket in which it moves ; (2) by the great laxity of the ligamentous structures which connect the humerus with the scapula. These provisions for allowing an extensive range of movement at this articulation might, at first sight, lead one to doubt the security of the joint. Its strength certainly does not lie in the adaptation of the bony surfaces to one another, nor in the power of its ligaments. It lies—(i) in the intimate manner in which the scapular muscles are arranged around it ; (2) in the overhanging coraco-acromial arch which forms, as it were, a secondary socket for the head of the humerus, and effectually prevents any displace- ment in an upward direction ; and (3) in atmospheric pressure, which Capsule of joint Humerus Deltoid Fold of capsule of Joint Latissimus dorsi Subscapularis anterior praspinatus Posterior circumflex artery of humerus and axillary (O.T. circumflex) nerve Teres major Radial (O.'F. musculo-spiral) Fig. 38.—Coronal or vertical transverse section through the Left Shoulder-joint. (Viewed from behind.) exercises a powerful influence in keeping the opposed surfaces in contact with each other. From all points of view, except over a small area below, the loose, ligamentous capsule which envelops the shoulder-joint is supported by muscles, the tendons of which are more or less intimately connected with it. Above, it is covered by the supraspinatus ; behind, the infraspinatus and teres minor are applied to it; in Jront is the subscapularis. Below, the capsule is to a certain extent unsupported by muscles, and here it is prolonged downwards, in the form of a fold, in the ordinary dependent position of the limb (Fig. 38). When, however, the arm is abducted, this told is obliterated, and the head of the bone rests upon the inferior part of the capsule, which now receives partial support from two muscles which90 THE UPPER EXTREMITY are stretched under it, viz. the long head of the triceps and the teres major. Still, this must be regarded as the weakest part of the joint, and consequently dislocation of the head of the humerus downwards into the axilla through the inferior part of the capsule is an occurrence of considerable frequency. Dissection.—Detach the axillary vessels and brachial nerves from the coracoid process to which they have been tied, and throw them distally. Then proceed to remove the muscles. Divide the conjoined origin of the short head of the biceps brachii and the coraco-brachialis close to the coracoid process, the teres major about its middle, and the long head of the triceps about an inch or two below its origin, and turn them aside. Next deal with the muscles more immediately in relation to the joint, viz. the supra- spinatus, the infraspinatus, the teres minor, and the subscapularis. These must be removed with great care, because their tendons are closely con- nected with the subjacent ligamentous capsule. They are not incorporated with the capsule, however, although at first sight they appear to be so, and thus they can be dissected from it. In the case of the subscapularis a protrusion of the synovial membrane, forming a bursa mucosa, will be found near its upper border, close to the root of the coracoid process. The capsule of the shoulder-joint may now be cleaned, and its attachments defined. The liganiefits in connection tvith the shoulder-joint are:— 1. The capsula articularis. 3. The lig. glenohumerale. 2. The lig. coracohumerale. 4. The labrum glenoidale. Capsula Articularis (Capsule).—The capsule of the shoulder-joint is a dense and strong ligamentous structure, which envelops the articulation on all sides. It is attached to the scapula around the glenoid cavity, but only above is it directly fixed to the bone. Elsewhere it springs from the fibrous ring or the labrum glenoidale, which serves to deepen the articular cavity; indeed, in its lower part it appears to be continuous with the border of the labrum glenoidale. Laterally it is fixed to the lateral part of the anatomical neck of the humerus. The width of the capsule is not uniform throughout. It expands as it passes over the en- closed head of the humerus, and contracts as it reaches its scapular and humeral attachments. The great laxity of the capsule of the shoulder-joint will now be apparent. When the muscles are removed, and air is admitted into the joint, the bony surfaces fall away from each other—the head of the humerus sinking downwards, when the part is held by the scapula, to the extent of an inch. The capsule of the shoulder-joint is not complete upon all aspects. Its continuity is interrupted by two, and sometimes three, apertures. The largest of these is an opening of some size, which is placed upon its medial aspect, near the rootAR'l'ICULATIO HUMERI 9* of the coracoid process. Through this aperture an exten- sive protrusion of the synovial membrane takes place in the form of a bursa mucosa, which, from its position under the upper part of the subscapularis muscle, receives the name of the bursa subscapularis. It is important to note the position and character of this opening, seeing that in some cases the head of the bone may be driven through it in dislocation of the joint. The second apcTiure is smaller and more distinctly defined. It is placed between the two tubercles of the Coraco-acromial ligament Acromion process Coracoid process Coraco-humeral ligament Communication between joint- cavity and sub- scapular bursa Subscapularis muscle I.ong tendon of biceps brachii Capsule of joint Fig. 39.—Shoulder-joint as seen from the front. humerus, at the proximal part of the sulcus intertubercularis, and it is through this that the long tendinous head of the biceps brachii gains admission to the interior of the capsule. The synovial membrane akso protrudes from this opening, and lines the sulcus intertubercularis as low as the in- sertion of the pcctoralis major. It is not often that the third opening is seen. It is situated, when present, on the lateral or posterior aspect of the capsule, and allows a pocket of synovial membrane to bulge out in the form of a bursa under the infraspinatus muscle. At certain points the capsule of the shoulder-joint is92 THE UPPER EXTREMITY specially thickened by the addition of fibres, which pass from the scapula to the humerus. Two of these thickened portions receive the names of the coraco-humeral and the gle7io-hiuneral ligaments. A third is placed on the inferior aspect of the capsule, where it is not supported by muscles, viz. between the long head of the triceps and the subscapularis. It is against this thickened portion of the capsule that the head of the humerus rests when the arm is abducted from the side, and it is sometimes spoken of as the inferior gleno- himiet'al ligament. Ligamentum Coracohumerale (Coraco-Humeral Ligament). —This is placed upon the proximal aspect of the joint. It is a broad band of great strength, which is more or less completely incorporated with the capsule. Above, it is fixed to the root and lateral border of the coracoid process of the scapula, and it passes from this obliquely distally and laterally, to gain attachment to the two tubercles of the humerus. It forms a strong arch over the upper part of the sulcus inter- tubercularis, under which the tendon of the biceps passes. Ligamentum Glenohumerale (Gleno-Humeral Ligament). —This ligament can only be seen when the joint is opened. The dissector should therefore, at this stage, remove the posterior part of the capsule, and, drawing the bones well apart from each other, look forwards into the cavity. The tendon of the biceps will be observed arching over the head of the humerus, to reach its insertion on the upper aspect of the glenoid cavity. Immediately medial to this, and parallel to it, will be noticed a ridge on the inner aspect of the capsule projecting into the joint. This band is the gleno- humeral ligament (of Flood). It is inserted into a faintly- marked pit on the anatomical neck of the humerus, close to the upper end of the sulcus intertubercularis. As already noted, the thickened band in the inferior part of the capsule is sometimes called the inferior gleuo-humeral ligament, .'\nother thicken- ing of the anterior wall of the capsule between this and the gleno-humeral ligament proper has received the name of the middle gleno-humeral ligament. Dissection.—Complete the division of the capsular ligament, and draw- ing the tendon of the biceps brachii through the interlubercular aperture in the capsule, separate the two Irenes from each other. Labrum Glenoidale (Glenoid Ligament).—The labrum glenoidale is the dense fibro-cartilaginous band whichARTICULATIO HUMERI 93 surrounds the margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and is attached to its rim. It deepens, and at the same time serves to extend, the articular socket of the scapula. The intimate connection which it presents with the capsule of the joint can now be studied. Two tendons are also closely associated with it, viz. the long head of the triceps brachii below, and the long head of the biceps brachii above. Coracoid process Acromio- clavicular ligament Superior gleno- humeral ligament Bursal opening in capsule Inferior gleno- i humeral ligament Glenoid cavity clavicle Conoid ligament Trapezoid ligament Coraco-acromial ligament Long tendon of biceps Capsule of shoulder- joint Glenoid ligament Fig. 40.—Capsular Ligament cut across and Humerus removed. Long Head of the Biceps. — The long tendon which receives this name is an important factor in the construc- tion of the shoulder-joint. Entering the capsule through the opening between the two tubercles of the humerus, it is prolonged over the head of the bone to the top of the glenoid cavity. Its origin should now be examined. It divides into three portions, viz. a large intermediate part, which obtains direct attachment to the scapula, and two smaller lateral parts, which diverge from each other and blend with the labrum glenoidale. The long head of the biceps brachii.THE UPPER EXTREMITY 94 by its position within the capsule, and in the deep sulcus between the tubercles of the humerus, serves to keep the head of the bone in place, and to steady it in the various movements at the shoulder-joint. The stratum synoviale (the synovial membrane) lines the capsule of the joint, and is reflected from it upon the anatomical neck of the humerus as far as the articular margin of the head of the bone. The bursal protrusion of the brirsa sub- scapularis under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle has already been noticed. The tendon of the biceps, as it traverses the joint, is enveloped in a tubular sheath of the membrane, which bulges out through the opening of the capsule in the form of a bursa, which lines the sulcus inter- tubercularis, and receives the name of bmsa iniertubercularis. Articular Surfaces.—The smooth, glistening articular cartilage, which coats the head of the humerus, is thickest in the centre, and thins as it passes towards the edges. In the case of the glenoid cavity the reverse of this will be noticed. The cartilaginous coating is thinnest in the centre, and becomes thicker as it is traced towards the circumference. Movements at the Shoulder-joint.—The shoulder is a ball-and-socket joint (enarthrosis), and consequently movement in every direction is per- mitted, viz.—(i) Jlexion, or forward movement; {i) extension, or backward movement (checked in its extent by the coraco-humeral ligament) ; (3) abduction, or lateral movement (checked by the coraco-acromial arch) ; (4) adduction, or medial movement (limited by the coraco-humeral ligament). In addition to these different forms of angular movement, rotation to the extent of a quarter of a circle and circutnduction are permitted. The muscles chiefly concerned in producing these movements are :— flexion—the pectoralis major and the anterior part of the deltoid ; extension —latissimus dorsi, posterior part of the deltoid, and the teres major ; abduction—the deltoid and supraspinatus ; adduction—pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi; rotation ?nedial!y— subscapularis, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major; rotation laterally—supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; circtimduction is produced by the action of different combinations of these muscles. FOREARM AND HAND. Dissection.—The skin has already been removed from the volar and dorsal surfaces of the forearm. It should now be raised from the dorsum of the hand by making incisions along the radial and ulnar borders. This is done in order that the superficial structures in this region may be examined in connection with those of the forearm. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—On the dorsum ofFOREARM AND HAND 95 the hand a plexus of superficial veins will be seen. In de- fining this, care must be taken of the fine cutaneous twigs from the superficial branch of the radial nerve and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. From the lateral part of the venous plexus the large cephalic vein takes origin, whilst from its medial part springs the basilic vein. Both of these vessels have already been traced along the forearm to their termina- tions. While still upon the dorsum of the hand each com- municates with the rami profundi in the palm of the hand. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves). — Several cutaneous nerves have already been traced to the integument of the forearm, viz. the volar and ulnar branches of the medial cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the medial aspect, the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm to the lateral region, and the dorsal cutaneous nerve of the forearm from the n. radialis on the dorsal aspect. Some additional twigs make their appearance by piercing the fascia in the distal third of the forearm. 1. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the n. ulnaris, 'j 2. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the n. medianus, I ,, i 3. The n. cutaneus palmaris of the ramus super- ^ ® aspect. hcialis of the n. radialis, j 1. The ramus dorsal manus of the n. ulnaris, ) .1. , , 2. The ramus superficialis of the n. radialis, Rami Cutanei Palmares (Palmar Cutaneous Nerves).— These are small twigs which supply the skin of the palm. The hvig frotu the ulnar nerve takes origin about the middle of the forearm, but it does not at once pierce the fascia of the forearm. It proceeds distally on the ulnar artery, and becomes superficial immediately proximal to the lig. carpi transversum (anterior annular lig.), and close to the lateral side of the insertion of the flexor carpi ulna/is tendon into the pisiform bone. It is here, therefore, that it must be sought for (Fig. 27, p. 66). The palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve appears through the deep fascia in the interval between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus muscles, immediately above the wrist. It is continued distally into the palm (Fig. 27, p. 66). The palmar branch of the superficial division of the radial nerve runs close to the lateral border of the distal part of the forearm. It does not spring from the trunk of the96 THE UPPER EXTREMITY superficial division of the radial nerve, but from that branch of it which goes to the lateral margin of the thumb. It is joined by a twig from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm, and proceeds downwards in front of the tendon of the abductor pollicis longus to end in the skin covering the ball of the thumb (Fig. 27, p. 66). Dissection.—In tracing the nerves which appear on the dorsum of the forearm, it will be necessary to remove the skin from the dorsal aspect of the thumb and fingers. The great flap of skin which is still attached at the roots of the fingers may be detached, and an incision can then be made along the middle of the dorsal aspect of each digit. The skin should be carefully raised from each finger in two flaps and thrown laterally and medially. Nervi Cutanei Dorsales (Dorsal Cutaneous Nerves).— The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve winds round the medial margin of the wrist to reach the dorsum of the hand. It will be found immediately below the prominence formed by the distal end of the ulna, and it at once divides into three main terminal branches. Of these, one runs along the ulnar margin of the dorsum of the hand, and is continued onwards along the medial margin of the little finger. The second branch proceeds towards the cleft between the little finger and the ring finger, and divides into two twigs which supply the contiguous sides of these digits. The third branch joins a twig from the superficial branch of the radial nerve, and the nerve thus formed runs towards the interval between the ring finger and the middle finger, and divides to supply their adjacent margins. Each of these three main branches gives several minute filaments to the integument on the dorsum of the hand (Fig. 28, p. 68). The superficial branch of the radial nerve will be found winding round the lateral margin of the forearm, about two inches proximal to the extremity of the styloid process of the radius. It at once gives off a long twig which proceeds along the radial margin of the hand and thumb. A little farther on it breaks up into four terminal branches, which are distributed as follows: the first supplies the medial side of the thumb; the second goes to the lateral side of the index finger; the third divides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers; whilst the fouiih joins with a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar (as already described) to supply the contiguous margins of the middle and ring fingers.FOREARM AND HAND 97 It should be noted that, except in the case of the thumb and little finger, the dorsal collateral nerves do not reach the extremities of the digits. The skin on the dorsum of the second and third phalanges of the digits is chiefly supplied by twigs which proceed backwards, from the palmar collateral branches of the median and ulnar nerves. As already stated, it is from the branch of the superficial division of the radial nerve, which goes to the lateral side of the thumb, that the radial palmar aitaneous 7ierve arises. Numerous fine filaments are given to the skin on the dorsum of the. hand, and a certain amount of crossing of the adjacent ulnar and radial twigs takes place in this locality; in other words, twigs from the one nerve invade the territory which is occupied by the other nerve. Fascia Antibrachii (Fascia of the Forearm).—The deep fascia which envelops the forearm should now be cleaned by removing the subcutaneous adipose tissue. It is an apon- eurosis of great strength and density. More particularly is this the case on the dorsal aspect of the limb, and also in the distal third of the forearm, where the fleshy bellies of the subjacent muscles give place to the tendons. In its proximal part it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon of the biceps brachii in the form of the lacertus fibrosus. Some fibres are also given to it by the tendon of the triceps. Near the elbow it serves as a surface of origin for the numerous muscles which spring from the epicondyles of the humerus, and from its deep aspect dense septa pass between the fleshy bellies. These partitions are indicated on the surface by a series of white lines. At the wrist it becomes continuous in front with the lig. carpi volare and the lig. carpi transversutn (O.T. ant. annular lig.), whilst behind it forms an obliquely placed, thickened band, the lig. catpi dorsale (post, annular lig.). On the dorsum of the hand the deep fascia is thin. Volar Surface and Medial Border of the Forearm. In this dissection the following structures will be brought under the notice of the student:— 1. The radial and ulnar arteries and their branches. 2. The median and ulnar nerves and their branches. 3. The ramus profundus (O.T. posterior interosseous) and the ramus super- ficialis of the n. radialis. 4. The group of pronator and flexor muscles. VOL. 1—798 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Dissection.—With the exception of the palmar cutaneous nerves, the superficial veins and nerves on the volar aspect of the forearm may now be turned aside. The deep fascia should also be removed, and when it is followed round the medial border of the forearm it will be found to be firmly attached to the dorsal border of the ulna. Near the elbow, as already stated, it gives origin by its deep surface to the group of muscles which spring from the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Where this is the case, it should be left in situ. Attempts to dissect it off will only result in laceration of the surface of the subjacent fleshy bellies. The radial artery should be followed out before the muscles are much disturbed, and at the same time the various muscles, covering the volar surface of the radius, and upon which the vessel rests, should be cleaned. Arteria Radialis (Radial Artery).—The radial artery is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the brachial artery, but its direction gives it the appearance of being the continuation of the parent trunk into the forearm. It takes origin in the fossa cubitalis, opposite the neck of the radius, and it proceeds downwards, along the lateral side of the volar aspect of the limb, until it reaches the distal end of the bone. There it turns round the lateral border of the wrist and leaves the present dissection. At first it lies between the pronator teres and the brachioradialis, and is overlapped to some extent on the lateral side by the fleshy belly of the latter muscle (Fig. 41). Lower down it is placed between the brachioradialis on the lateral side and the flexor carpi radialis upon the medial side, and this position it maintains as far as the wrist. Where these muscles are fleshy the artery lies at some depth from the surface; but when the tendons make their appearance it assumes a superficial position, and is merely covered by the integument and fascia. Through- out its whole length it is closely accompanied by the vetia comites, and the superficial division of the radial nerve lies along its lateral side in the middle third of the forearm. More proximally, the nerve is separated from the vessel by a slight interval; whilst distally., the nerve leaves the artery and turns round the lateral margin of the forearm under cover of the brachioradialis. Posteriorly the radial artery is supported by the muscles which clothe and find attachment to the volar surface of the radius. At its origin it rests upon the tendon of the biceps brachii; next it lies in front of the supinator with some adipose tissue intervening; thence distally it is in contact with the pronator teres, the thin radial head of the flexor digitorum sublimis, the flexor pollicis longus, the pronator quadratus, and lastly, the distal end of the radius.FOREARM AND HAND 99 The radial artery is usually selected for the determination of the pulse. By placing the tips of the fingers upon the distal part of the forearm, in the interval between the tendons of the brachioradialis and flexor carpi radialis, the pulsations of the vessel in the living person can readily be felt. Branches of the Radial Artery. — In the forearm the radial artery gives off the following branches, viz. :— 1. The a. recurrens radialis. 2. The a. volaris superficialis. 3. The a. carpeus volaris. 4. Rami musculares. The rami musculares are very numerous, and proceed from the radial artery at irregular points throughout its whole course in the forearm. The arteria recurrens radialis is a branch of some size. It takes origin close to the commencement of the radial artery, and in the first instance runs laterally between the brachioradialis and the supinator. Here it comes into relation with branches coming from the radial nerve, and gives off several twigs for the supply of the muscles arising from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. Somewhat reduced in size, it now turns proximally in the interval between the brachioradialis and brachialis, and ends, in front of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, by anastomos- ing with the anterior terminal branch of the art. profunda brachii. It may be represented by two or more vessels. The ramus volaris superficialis (O.T. art. superficialis volse) is a small, variable branch, which arises a short distance pro.ximal to the wrist, and runs distally to end in the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Sometimes, however, it attains a larger size and a special importance, from its being continued into the palm to complete the superficial volar arch on the lateral side. The ramus carpeus volaris is a minute twig which springs from the radial at the distal border of the pronator quadratus muscle. It runs medially, under cover of the flexor tendons, and joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar artery to form the volar carpal arch. The Ramus Superficialis and the Ramus Profundus of the Nervus Radialis (O.d’. Radial and Posterior In- terosseous Nerves). — It has already been noted that the radial nerve ends above the elbow, under cover of the brachio- radialis muscle, by dividing into two terminal branches, I—7 aTHE UPPER EX'l'REMPl'Y I oo the ramus superficialis and the ramus profundus. These nerves may now be studied in so far as they lie on the volar aspect of the forearm. The nervus profundus soon disappears from view by passing backwards on the lateral side of the radius through the fibres of the supinator muscle. The ramus superficialis proceeds distally under cover of the fleshy belly of the brachioradialis. In the middle A. raclialis . V. basilica N. interosseus (O.T. posterior M. ext. dig. comib. M. SI iU. ancona^us 'I'endon in. biceps bracbi N. cutan. anlib. dorsalis M. ext. carp, rad, long. “ N. cutan. antib. lat. A. ulnaris N. ulnaris N. cutan. s antib. ined. flex, car ~ ulnaris V. cephalica N. cutan. antib. lat. M. brachioradialis N. radialis ramus superfic. (O.T. radial) N. cutan. antib. med. N. medianus M. palmaris longus Fig. 41.—Transverse section through the Proximal Third of the left Forearm. third of the forearm it lies along the lateral side of the radial artery, and then leaves it by winding round the lateral margin of the limb, under cover of the tendon of the brachioradialis. It has been traced in its farther course (p. 96). The ramus superficialis is a purely cutaneous nerve, and gives off no branches until it gains the dorsal aspect of the lower end of the forearm. Muscles.—The muscles on the volar aspect and medial border of the forearm are arranged in a superficial and a deep group. I’hey comprise the flexors of the wrist and fingers, and also the pronators. In the superficial groupFOREARM AND HAND lOI are the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, the flexor digitorum sublimis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, in that order from the lateral to the medial side. The fleshy belly of the flexor sublimis only partially comes to the surface ; the chief bulk of it is placed upon a deeper plane than the others. The deep group is composed of three muscles, placed in contact with the bones and interosseous membrane of the forearm, viz. the flexor digitorum profundus in relation to the ulna, the flexor pollicis longus in relation to the radius, and the pronator quadratus closely applied to the lower ends of both bones. Dissection.—The superficial group of muscles should now be dissected. The brachioradialis, which lies along the lateral side of the forearm, may be cleaned at the same time. In the lower part of the forearm the dis- sector will observe that the flexor tendons are enveloped by a loose bursa mucosa as they pass into the palm, under cover of the transverse carpal ligament. A good view of this may be obtained by pulling the tendons upwards. If possible, the sac should be retained uninjured, in order that its full extent may be studied when the palm of the hand is opened up. At this stage it is also well to define the transverse carpal ligament which bridges across the front of the carpus. The tendon of the palmaris longus passes in front of it, whilst close to the pisiform bone the ulnar artery and nerve are placed upon its volar surface, and give the dissector the key to its depth. This vessel, with its accompanying nerve, are bound down to the ligament by a more superficial band of fascia, the ligamentum carpi volare, which passes over them, and which the student is very apt to mistake for the transverse ligament itself. This band of fascia should not be disturbed in the meantime. Common Origin of the Superficial Muscles. — The five muscles which constitute the superficial group are very closely associated with each other at the elbow—indeed, they may be said to arise by a common origin from the front of the medial epicondyle of the humerus. In addition to this they all derive fibres from the investing deep fascia of the limb, near the elbow, and from the strong fibrous septa which pass between the muscles from the deep surface of investing fascia. The pronator teres, the flexor sublimis, and the flexor carpi ulnaris, have likewise additional heads of origin. M. Pronator Teres (Pronator Radii Teres).—This muscle crosses the proximal half of the front of the forearm obliquely. It arises by two heads, viz. a humeral and an ulnar. The humeral head constitutes the chief bulk of the muscle. It springs from the proximal part of the medial epicondyle of the humerus, and also slightly by fleshy fibres from the distal part of the medial epicondylar ridge. The fascia covering it 1—7 hI 02 THE UPPER EXTREMITY and the fibrous septum on its medial side also contribute fibres. The ulnar head is placed deeply, and it may be recognised from the fact that it intervenes between the median nerve and the ulnar artery. To bring it into view the superficial humeral head must be drawn well to the medial side. The ulnar head is very variable in size. As a rule, it is a small fleshy slip, but sometimes it is chiefly fibrous. It arises from the medial border of the coronoid process of the ulna (Fig. 43, p. 108), and soon joins the deep surface of the humeral head. The muscle thus formed is carried obliquely distally and laterally, and ends in a tendon which gains insertion into a rough impression upon the middle of the lateral surface of the radius (Fig. 43, p. 108). This attach- ment is placed on the summit of the chief curve of the radius, an arrangement which enables the muscle to exercise ' its pronating action at a great advantage. Close to its insertion the pronator teres is crossed by the radial artery and is covered by the brachioradialis muscle. It is supplied by the median nerve. It is a pronator of the forearm and hand and a flexor of the elbow. M. Flexor Carpi Radialis.—The flexor carpi radialis arises from the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm and the fibrous septa which intervene between it and the adjacent muscles. Its fleshy belly gives place, a short distance distal to the middle of the forearm, to a long flattened tendon, which, at the wrist, traverses the groove on the front of the os multangulum majus in a special compartment of the trans- verse carpal ligament (Fig. 48, p. 122). It is inserted into the volar aspect of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index, and slightly also into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its relations to the transverse carpal ligament, and also its attachment to the metacarpus, will be exposed and studied at a later stage of the dissection. It is supplied by the median nerve. M. Palmaris Longus.—This is a long slender muscle, which is not always present. It springs from the common origin, the aponeurotic investment of the forearm and the fibrous | septum on either side of it. Its tendon pierces the deep fascia immediately proximal to the wrist, and then proceeds distally, | in front of the transverse carpal ligament, to join the strong j intermediate portion of the palmar aponeurosis. Very ! frequently it gives a slip to the abductor pollicis brevis. It is iFOREARM AND HAND ,03 supplied by the median nerve and is a flexor of the radio- carpal and elbow-joints. Triceps Ulnar nerve Pronator teres Flexor carpi raclialis Palmaris longus Olecranon Fibrous arch between heads of flexor carpi iilnaris Radial artery Pronator quadratus ^ Abiluctor pollicis longus i t I*IG. 42.—Dissection of the volar aspect of the Forearm ; ilie superficial muscles are cut short and tiirnecl aside, and the deeper parts are still further displayed by separating the Mexor sublimis from the flexor carj>i ulnnris along the line of the intermuscular septum which intervenes between them. M. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris.—This muscle arises by two lieads. Flexor pollicis longus \ Ulnar artery j and nerve Flexor digitorum suhliniis Palmaris longus Flexor carpi radialis Radial nerve Radial head of flexor digitorum sublimis Median nerve Med ian Radial artery Radial head of flexor digitorum sublimis Ulnar nerve Branch to flexor digitorum profundus Branch to flexor carpi ulnaris Flexor digitorum profundus j-/uisal branch of ulnar nerve Flexor digitorum profundus Ulnar nerveTHE UPPER EXTREMITY i 04 One of these is incorporated with the common origin from the medial epicondyle; the other springs from the medial border of the olecranon of the ulna, and likewise by an aponeurotic attachment from the posterior border of the same bone in its proximal two-thirds. Fibres are also derived from the in- vesting fascia and the intermuscular septum on its lateral side. The two heads of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris bridge across the interval between the medial epicondyle of the humerus and the olecranon, and between them the ulnar nerve is prolonged distally into the forearm. The tendon appears upon the volar border of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone. The flexor carpi ulnaris is supplied by the ulnar nerve. It is a flexor and adductor of the hand and a flexor of the elbow. M. Flexor Digitorum Sublimis.—The flexor sublimis re- ceives this name from its being placed upon the superflcial aspect of the flexor profundus. For the most part it lies deeper than the other superficial muscles (Fig. 41). It is a powerful muscle which arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon, but it also takes origin from the ulnar collateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the medial margin of the coronoid process of the ulna, the volar surface of the radius (Fig. 43, p. 108), and the fascial intermuscular septa in relation to it. The radial head of origin is a thin fleshy stratum which is attached to the volar border of the radius from its proximal extremity to a variable distance distal to the insertion of the pronator teres muscle. Four tendons issue from the fleshy mass. These enter the palm by passing under cover of the transverse carpal ligament, and go to the four medial digits. Their insertions will be seen later on, but in the meantime note that at the wrist, and for a short distance above it, they are enveloped by the vagina mucosa previously mentioned, and also that as they pass behind the transverse carpal ligament they lie in pairs—the tendons to the ring and middle fingers being placed on the volar aspect of those for the index and little fingers. The flexor digitorum sublimis is supplied by the median net've. Dissection.—The ulnar artery and at the same time the ulnar and median nerves should be followed in their course through the forearm. The artery in the proximal part of its course lies very deeply, but its relations can be fully studied and its branches traced by sini]>ly slitting up the intermuscular septum between the flexor digitorum sublimis and the flexor carpi ulnaris.105 FOREARM AND HAND Arteria Ulnaris (Ulnar Artery).—'Fhis is tlie larger of ihe two terminal branches of the brachial trunk. It takes origin in the fossa cubitalis at the level of the neck of the radius. In the proximal third of the forearm it inclines obliquely distally and medially, and then it proceeds distally and vertically to the wrist. It enters the palm by passing anterior to the transverse carpal ligament. In the proximal oblique portion of its course the vessel is deeply placed, and is crossed by both heads of the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor digitorum sublimis. In its distal vertical part it is overlapped on the medial side by the flexor carpi ulnaris, but a short distance above the wrist it becomes superficial, and lies in the interval between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris on the medial side and the tendons of the flexor sublimis on the lateral side. On the transverse carpal ligament it is placed close to the lateral side of the pisiform bone, and is covered by a strong band of fascia, the volar carpal ligament (pp. loi, 121), which lies in front of the transverse ligament. Throughout its entire course it is accompanied by two verice comites. It has important rela- tionships with the median and ulnar nerves. The median nerve, which lies upon its medial side at its origin, soon crosses it, but as it does so it is separated from the artery by the deep head of the pronator teres. The ulnar tterve in the proximal third of the forearm is separated from the vessel by a wide interval, but in the distal two-thirds of the forearm it closely accompanies the artery, and lies on its medial side. In the fossa cubitalis the ulnar artery rests upon the brachialis; beyond this it is in contact behind with the flexor digitorum profundus; whilst at the wrist the artery lies upon the anterior surface of the transverse carf^al ligament. Branches of the Ulnar Artery.—In the forearm the ulnar artery gives off the following branches :— 1. A. recurrens ulnaris volaris. 2. A. recurrens ulnaris dorsalis. 3- A. interossea communis. 4. A. carpea volaris. 5. A. carpea dorsalis. 6. Rami muscularcs. The rami musculares are of small size, and come off at variable points for the supply of the neighbouring muscles. The a. recurrens ulnaris volaris (O.'I'. anterior ulnar re- current) is the smaller of the two recurrent branches. It runs proximally, anterior to the medial epicondyle of the humerus, in the interval between the pronator teres and the brachialisTHE UPPER EXTREMITY I o6 muscles, and it anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery. The a. recurre?is uhiaris dorsalis (O.T. posterior ulnar recurrent') passes medially, under cover of the flexor digitorum sublimis, and then turns proximally, between the two heads of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris, to gain the interval between the medial epicondyle of the humerus and the olecranon on the dorsal aspect of the limb. Here it comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery and with the superior ulnar collateral artery. It is not uncommon to find the two recurrent arteries arising from the ulnar trunk by a short common stem. The arteria interossea cotnmunis is a short, wide trunk, which takes origin immediately below the recurrent branches, about an inch or so below the commencement of the ulnar artery. It proceeds dorsally, and at the proximal margin of the interosseous membrane it divides into two terminal branches, viz. the volar (O.T. a/ite?-ior) and the dorsal (O.T. posterior) interosseous arteries. The arterice carpece ulnares are two small arteries, which partially encircle the wrist. The anterior ulnar carpal artery runs laterally, under cover of the tendons of the flexor digi- torum profundus, and anastomoses with the volar carpal branch of the radial artery. From the arch thus formed small twigs are given to the volar aspect of the carpal bones and joints. The dorsal uhtar ca7pal artery gains the dorsal aspect of the carpus by winding round the medial margin of the limb immediately proximal to the pisiform bone, and under cover of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Nervus Ulnaris (Ulnar Nerve).—The ulnar nerve, which was traced in the dissection of the arm as far as the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus, enters the forearm between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It proceeds distally, upon the flexor digitorum pro- fundus and under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, along the volar aspect of the medial side of the forearm. Close to the wrist it becomes superficial, upon the lateral side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and it reaches the palm by passing anterior to the transverse carpal ligament. In the proximal third of the forearm the ulnar nerve is separated from the ulnar artery by an interval, but in the distalFOREARM AND HAND 107 two-thirds it is closely applied to the medial side of the vessel. In the forearm the ulnar nerve gives off:— 1. Rami articulares. 2. Rami Musculares, 3. Rami cutanei, / to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the medial part \ of the flexor profundus. / ramus cutaneus palmaris. \ ramus dorsalis manus. The rami articulares come from the ulnar nerve as it lies in the interval between the olecranon and medial epicondyle of the humerus, and pass to the elbow joint. The rami musculares are given off high up in the fore- arm, and supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the medial part of the flexor digitorum profundus. The ramus cutaneus palmaris is a minute twig which has already been seen piercing the fascia of the forearm im- mediately above the transverse carpal ligament. It arises about the middle of the forearm and proceeds distally upon the ulnar artery, to the coats of which it gives line filaments. The ramus dorsalis manus is a nerve of some size which springs from the ulnar trunk about two and a half or three inches above the wrist. It winds round the medial margin of the forearm, under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and reaches the dorsum of the hand immediately below the prominence formed by the distal end of the ulna. From this point onwards it has been traced in the superficial dissec- tion (p. 96). Nervus Medianus (Median Nerve).—As its name implies, the median nerve passes down the middle of the forearm ; and to obtain an unbroken view of it, it is necessary to reflect the humeral head of the pronator teres and the radial head of the flexor digitorum sublimis. In the proximal part of the forearm the median nerve lies in the fossa cubitalis upon the medial side of the ulnar artery. It leaves this space by passing between the two heads of the pronator teres, and as it does so it crosses the ulnar artery, but is separated from the vessel by the ulnar head of the muscle. From this point the median nerve runs distally between the flexor sublimis and the flexor digitorum pro- fundus. Near the wrist it becomes superficial, and lies in the interval between the tendons of the flexor digitorum sublimis on the medial and the flexor carpi radialis on theio8 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY Flex. dig. sublim. Pronator teres Brachialis Flex. poll, long. Biceps brachii Flex, dig sublim Pronator teres Brachio- radialis " lateral side. Finally it leaves the forearm by passing be- hind the transverse carpal ligament. A small artery, the a. mediana^ a branch of the volar interosseous artery, accompanies the median nerve. Sometimes this vessel attains a considerable size. As the median nerve enters the forearm it gives off numerous branches for the supply of muscles, and near the wrist it supplies a ravius palmaris, which has already been dissected (p. 95)- The jnuscular branches supply all the muscles of the superficial group, therefore, with the single exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; viz. the pronator teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor digi- torum sublimis. It likewise supplies a long slender twig—volar in- terosseous nerve—which goes to the deep muscles on the anterior aspect of the fore- arm. Fig. 43.—Anterior aspect of Bones of Forearm with Muscular Attachments mapped out. Deep Structures on the front of the Forearm. — The connections of the deep muscles must now be studied, and at the same time the volar interosseous artery and volar interosse- ous nerve must be followed. The flexor digitorum pro- fundus is the large muscle which clothes the volar andFOREARM AND HAND 109 medial aspects of the ulna; the flexor pollicis longus is placed upon the volar surface of the radius; while the pronator quadratus is a quadrate fleshy layer closely applied to both bones immediately proximal to the wrist. The artery and nerve proceed distally in the interval between the flexor pro- fundus and flexor pollicis longus. M. Flexor Digitoruin Profundus.—The deep flexor of the fingers springs from the volar and medial surfaces of the ulna in its proximal three-fourths. It likewise derives fibres from the volar surface of the interosseous membrane and the aponeurosis by which the flexor carpi ulnaris takes origin from the dorsal border of the ulna. The fleshy mass gives place to four tendons for the four medial digits, but only one of these—that for the index finger—becomes separate and distinct in the forearm. They proceed distally, deep to the transverse carpal ligament, into the palm. The flexor digitorum profundus is supplied by the volar interosseous branch of the median and by the ulnar fierve. M. Flexor Pollicis Longus.—The flexor pollicis longus arises from the volar surface of the radius, over an area which extends from the volar border above to the proximal border of the pronator quadratus below. It also takes origin from the adjacent part of the volar surface of the interosseous membrane. A rounded tendon issues from the fleshy belly, and proceeds into the palm, under cover of the transverse carpal ligament. In many cases the flexor pollicis longus will be observed to have an additional slender head of origin, from the medial border of the coronoid process of the ulna, or the medial epicondyle of the humerus. The flexor pollicis longus is supplied by the volar interosseous nerve. M. Pronator Quadratus.—This is a quadrate muscle which takes origin from the volar surface of the ulna in its distal fourth, and is inserted into the volar aspect of the distal end of the radius. It is supplied by the volar interosseous nerve. Arteria Interossea Volaris (O.T. Anterior Interosseous Artery).—The volar interosseous artery has been seen to arise from the common interosseous artery. It runs distally upon the volar surface of the interosseous membrane, in the interval between the flexor pollicis longus and the flexor digitorum profundus. At the proximal border of the pronatorI lO THE UPPER EXTREMITY quadratus it pierces the interosseous membrane, and gains the dorsal aspect of the limb. It supplies 1-ami musculares to the three deep muscles with which it is in contact. In addition to these it gives off the following branches:— 1. Median. 2. Medullary. 3. Anterior communicating. The a. mediana is a long delicate vessel which accom- panies the median nerve. The medullary arteries are two in number—one for the radius, the other for the ulna. They enter the nutrient foramina of these bones. The anterior communicating is a slender artery, which runs distally, behind the pronator quadratus, to join the volar carpal arch. Nervus Interosseus Volaris (O.T. Anterior Interosseous ' Nerve).—This is a branch of the median, and accompanies the artery of the same name. It does not follow it, however, through the interosseous membrane, but is distributed entirely upon the volar aspect of the limb. It is the nerve of supply for the flexor pollicis longus, the lateral part of the flexor digitorum profundus, and the pronator quadratus, whilst its terminal filament proceeds distally, behind the last-named muscle, to help in the supply of the carpal joints. The flexor digitorum profundus is therefore supplied by two nerves, viz. the ulnar and the median. The precise range of supply by each of these nerves is somewhat variable. As a general rule the division of the muscle which belongs to the index finger is supplied by the median and the part belonging to the little finger by the ulnar; whilst the portions belonging to the middle and ring digits receive filaments from both nerves. Wrist and Palm. In this dissection we meet with the following structures:— 1. M. palmaris brevis and the volar cutaneous nerves. 2. Aponeurosis palmaris. 3. Arcus volaris superficialis and its branches. 4. Median and ulnar nerves and their branches. 5. Lig. carpi volare, lig. carpi transversum, the flexor tendons, and their vaginm mucosa;. 6. Mm. lumbricales. 7. Short muscles of the thumb and little finger. S. ,'Vrcus volaris profundus and its branches. g. Arteria princeps pollicis and art. volaris indicis radialis.FOREARM AND HAND 111 Surface Anatomy.—In the centre of the palm the depres- sion, known as the “ hollow of the hand,” may be remarked. Along the medial border of the palm this is bounded by a Fig. 44.—Diagram of Nerves and Vessels of Hand in relation to Bones and Skin Markings. rounded elevation, called the hypoihetiar emhience^ which is produced by the subjacent short, intrinsic muscles of the little finger, d’he thetiar eminence, or ball of the thumb, formed by the short muscles of that digit, is the marked projection which limits the palmar hollow pro.ximally and on the lateral side;THE UPPER EXTREMITY I I 2 whilst the transverse elevation above the roots of the fingers, which corresponds to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, constitutes the distal boundary of the central palmar depres- sion. Two pronounced bony projections on the front of the wrist cannot fail to attract attention when the hand is bent backwards. The more prominent of the two is situated at the proximal extremity of the thenar eminence, and is formed by the tubercle of the navicular bone and the vertical ridge on the front of the os multangulum majus ; the other is placed at the proximal end of the hypothenar eminence, and is some- what obscured by the soft parts attached to it. It is caused by the pisiform bone, and when taken firmly between the finger and thumb a slight degree of gliding movement can be communicated to it. Traversing the thick integument of the palm, three strongly marked furrows are apparent. One of these begins at the elevation formed by the navicular and os multangulum, and curves distally and laterally, around the base of the thenar eminence, to the lateral margin of the hand. A second crosses the palm transversely. Commenc- ing at the middle of the lateral border of the hand, where the first furrow ends, it runs medially, but, as a general rule, it fades away upon the hypothenar eminence. The third furrow begins near the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and proceeds medially with a gentle curve across the hypothenar eminence to the medial margin of the hand. The transverse cutaneous furrows at the roots of the fingers, and on the palmar aspects of the interphalangeal joints, should also be noticed. The furrows at the roots of the fingers are placed over the palmar aspects of the proximal phalanges very nearly one inch distal to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The proximal of the two furrows palmar to each of the proximal interphalangeal joints is placed immediately over the articulation, whilst in the case of the distal inter- phalangeal joints the single crease which is usually present is situated immediately proximal to the articulation. On the back of the hand the metacarpal bones can be readily felt, whilst their distal extremities, or heads, form the promin- ences known as the “knuckles.” Reflection of Skin.—In the first instance the skin should only be raised from the palm. Two incisions are recjuired—viz. (i) a vertical incision along the middle line of the jialm ; (2) a transverse cut across the roots of the fingers from the medial to the lateral margin of the hand. The skin is tightly bound down to the subjacent palmar aponeurosis, and it must beFOREARM AND HAND ”3 raised with care. More especially is it necessary to proceed with caution at the roots of the fingers in order that some transverse fibres, constituting a superficial cutaneous ligament, may be preserved. In reflecting the medial flap of integument it is well not to lift it quite as far as the medial border of the hand, because it is into this portion of skin that the m. palmaris brevis is inserted. Superficial Structures.—The superficial fascia over the central part of the palm is dense and thin, and the fat is subdivided into small lobules by fibrous septa which bind the skin to the subjacent palmar aponeurosis. Towards the medial and lateral margins of the hand the fat becomes softer, and the amount of fibrous tissue amongst it diminishes. In connection with the superficial fascia of the palm we have to study—(i) the palmaris brevis; (2) the superficial trans- verse ligament; and (3) the palmar cutaneous nerves. The 7)1. pahnaris brevis is a small cutaneous muscle embed- ded in the superficial fascia which covers the proximal part of the hypothenar eminence. If it has not already been exposed by the reflection of the skin, carry the knife transversely through the granular fat on the ulnar margin of the palm immediately below the transverse carpal ligament. The fleshy bundles of the muscle will come into view. When these have been cleaned, the muscle will be seen to consist of a series of distinct fasciculi, which, in its distal part, are frequently separated from each other by intervals of varying width. It constitutes a thin fleshy layer, which covers an inch and a half or more of the hypothenar eminence. Laterally it takes origin from the transverse carpal ligament and medial border of the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis whilst medially its fasciculi are inserted into the skin over the medial margin of the hand. The volar {pal77iar) cutaneous nerves are three in number, and they arise, as already noted, from the ulnar and median nerves and from the superficial branch of the radial nerve. They should now be traced to their ultimate distribution in the palm of the hand. The transverse superficial Uga77ient is a band of fibres which extends across the palm at the roots of the fingers. It is intimately connected with the skin, and is enclosed within the folds of integument in the clefts between the fingers. Dissection.—The palmaris brevis should be reflected by detaching its fasciculi from their origin, and turning them medially. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the ulnar artery and nerve, which lie under VOL. I—8114 THE UPPER EXTREMPPY cover of it, and a little filament from the latter nerve should be traced into its substance. The granular fat should next be removed from the palm, and the dense palmar aponeurosis cleaned. Towards the roots of the fingers the Palmaris longus- Flexor carpi ulnaris Ulnar artery, Lig. carpi transversum (O.T. Anterior annular ligament) Pisiform bone Palmaris longus. Palmaris brevis. Abductor digiti quintij^4 Flexor digiti qiiinti, brevis Palmar fascia, (intermediate part) 4th lumbrical with digital artery and nerves 3rd lumbrical with digital artery and nerves Transverse superficial ligament Flexor sublimis Brachioradialis Flexor carpi radialis -Radial artery -Median nerve Abductor pollicis longus Volar superficial artery’’ Opponens pollicis Abductor pollicis Flexor pollicis brevis 1st lumbrical with i digital nerve and ^ arteria radialis indie ; 2nd lumbrical with digital artery and nerves Fig. 45-—Superficial Dissection of the Palm. The intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis h.as been left in position whilst the lateral and medial portions have been removed to display the short museles of the thumb and little finger. digital vessels and nerves, together with the lumbrical nuuscles, appear in the intervals between the slips into which the jialmar aponeurosis divides. These should be defined, and it will be seen that they jiass distally under cover of the superficial transverse ligament. Having noted this point.FOREARM AND HAND 115 I—8 a remove the ligament. The digital arteries and nerves for the medial side of the little finger, and the lateral side of the index, appear beyond the area of the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis, more proximal than the others, and are consequently liable to injury, unless the positions they occupy are kept in mind. Aponeurosis Palmaris (O.T. Palmar Fascia).—The palmar aponeurosis is composed of three portions—an intermediate, a medial, and a lateral. The lateral and medial are thin and weak, and are spread over the muscles which constitute the thenar and hypothenar eminences on the lateral and medial margins of the palm. The intermediate portio7i of the palmar aponeurosis, on the other hand, is exceedingly strong and dense, and is spread out over the middle of the palm. It counteracts the effect of pressure in this region, and effectually protects the vessels, nerves, and tendons over which it is stretched. Its strength differs considerably in different hands, and it is seen to best advantage in the horny hand of a labourer, or of a mechanic who has been in the habit of handling heavy implements. In shape it is triangular. Above, it is narrow and pointed, and at the wrist it is attached to the transverse carpal ligament, and receives the insertion of the flattened tendon of the palmaris longus. As it approaches the heads of the metacarpal bones it expands, and finally divides into four slips, which separate slightly from each other and pass to the roots of the four medial digits. It gives no slip to the thumb. For the most part it is composed of longitudinal fibres, but, where it divides, a series of strong and very evident transverse fibres pass across it in relation to its deep surface, and bind together its diverg- ing slips. In the three intervals between the digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis, the digital arteries and nerves, together with the corresponding lumbrical muscles, make their appear- ance. The connections of the four digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis must be closely examined. Each lies in front of the two flexor tendons proceeding to the finger with which it is connected, and each will be observed to divide into two portions, so as to form an arch under which these tendons pass. This arch is connected with the flexor sheaths, which bind the tendons to the front of the finger, and the two portions which form it are carried backwards, to obtain attachment to the transverse metacarpal ligament, whichTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 116 stretches transversely across the fronts of the heads of the metacarpal bones. These relations can only be satisfactorily made out by dividing the arch and slitting the slip of fascia in an upward direction. Fascial Compartments of the Palm.—Two weak septa pro- ceed into the palm from the margins of the strong intermediate portion of the palmar aponeurosis. They join a layer of fascia, which is spread out over the interosseous muscles and the deep volar arch, and they thus subdivide the palm into three fascial compartments, viz. an inter mediate, containing the flexor tendons, the lumbrical muscles, the superficial volar arch, and the terminal branches of the median nerve; a medial, enclosing the short muscles of the little finger; and a lateral, enclosing the short muscles of the thumb. Dissection.—Raise the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. Divide its narrow proximal part, throw it distally, and finally remove it completely. The superficial volar arch is the most superficial of the struc- tures now exposed. Trace the ulnar artery into it, and follow the digital branches which it gives off. The lig. carpi volare which binds the ulnar artery to the front of the transverse carpal ligament may now be removed. Tire median and ulnar nerves must also be dissected. The muscular branches, which the median gives to the muscles of the thenar eminence, are especially liable to injury. They come off in a short, stout stem, almost in a line with the lower margin of the transverse carpal ligament, and at once turn laterally to reach the short muscles of the thumb, to some of which they are distributed. The nerve twigs to the two lateral lumbricals must also be looked for. They spring from the digital branches of the median which go to the lateral side of the index and to the cleft between the index and middle fingers. In order that the digital vessels and nerves may be traced to their distribution the skin must be reflected from the fingers. This can be done by making an incision along the middle of each digit, and turning the integument laterally and medially. As the skin is raised from the borders of the different digits the cutaneous ligaments of the phalanges (Cleland) will come into view. These are fibrous bands, which spring from the edges of the phalanges behind the digital vessels and nerves. They are inserted into the skin so as to form a strong fibrous septum on each side of each finger. They retain the integument in proper position during the different movements of the digits. Arcus Volaris Superficialis (O.T. Superficial Palmar Arch.).—The ulnar artery, when traced into the palm, is found to form the superficial volar arch—an arterial arcade, which lies immediately subjacent to the palmar aponeurosis. The ulnar artery enters the palm by passing in front of the transverse carpal ligament, close to the lateral side of the pisiform bone. A short distance below this it curves laterally across the palm, and, near the middle of the thenar emin-FOREARM AND HAND 117 •9 > < ence, it is joined by the superficialis volaris branch of the radial, or, more frequently, by a twig from the art. volaris indicis radialis or art. princeps pollicis. The convexity of the arch is directed distally towards the fingers, and its most Flexor carpi u Ulnar artery Dorsal branch of ulnar nerve Ulnar nerve Deep branch of ulnar nerve Abductor digiti quinti Deep branch of ulnar artery Superficial part of ulnar nerve Opponens digb? nnlnti Abductor digiti ([uinti P lexor brevis digiti quinti 4th lumbrical 3rd lumbrical Flexor digitorum sublimis Flexor carpi radialis Median nerve Radial artery Superficial volar artery transversum (O.T. annular lig.) Al)diictor pollicis longus Abductor pollicis Opponens pollicis Median nerve Flexor brevis poilids Abductor pollicis Superficial volar arch (O.T. sup. palmararch) Adductor pollicis, transverse part. :st'lunibrical 2nd lumbrical flG. 46.—The parts in the I’alm which arc displayed by the rciiioval of the r almar .Aponeurosis. In the specimen from whicli the drawing was taken the artcria volaris indicis radialis and the arteria princeps pollicis took origin from the arcus volaris supjerficialis. distal point corresponds with a line drawn across the palm parallel with the distal border of the outstretched thumb. Throughout its entire extent the stiperficial volar arch lies very near the surface. Its medial part is covered bv the 1—86 ■'THE UPPER EX'J'REMITY 118 palmaris brevis muscle; beyond this it is placed immediately behind the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. As it is followed from the medial to the lateral side of the hand it will be seen to rest upon—(a) the transverse carpal ligament • (d) the short muscles of the little finger ; (c) the flexor tendons and the digital branches of the median nerve. Branches of the Arcus Volaris Superficialis. — Small branches proceed from the superficial volar arch for the supply of the integument and adjoining short muscles of the palm. As the ulnar artery leaves the surface of the transverse carpal ligament it gives off its prqfmida branch; whilst from the convexity of the arch proceed four common volar digital bratiches. The a. volaris profundus is a small vessel, which at once disappears from view by passing backwards in the interval between the abductor digit! quinti and the flexor brevis digit! quinti. It will be traced to its termination in the deep dissection of the palm. The four common volar digital arteries supply both sides of the three medial digits and the medial side of the index finger. The first common volar digital artery runs distally upon the short muscles of the little finger, to which it gives twigs, and then it is carried along the medial side of the digit. The second co7nmon volar digital artery proceeds towards the interval between the roots of the little and ring fingers, and divides into two branches (collateral or proper volar digital arteries), which run along the contiguous sides of these digits. The third cofnmon volar digital artery supplies in like manner the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers; whilst the fourth common volar digital artery deals similarly with the contiguous margins of the middle and index fingers. There are certain points in connection with these volar digital arteries, during their course in the palm and along the sides of the fingers, which must be noted. In the palm the undivided trunks lie in the intervals between the flexor tendons and volar to the digital nerves and the lumbrical muscles. Along the sides of the fingers they show a different relation to the nerves : the nerves are now on the volar side and the arteries lie dorsal to them. Upon the terminal phalanx the two collateral branches join to form an arch, from which proceed great numbers of fine twigs, to supply the pulp of the finger, and the bed upon which the nail rests.I 19 FOREARM AND HAND I—8 c Each common volar digital artery, at the point at which it divides, is joined by the corresponding volar metacarpal artery from the deep volar arch. The proper volar digital arteries give a liberal supply of twigs to the integument, the sheaths of the tendons, and the joints of the fingers. Nervus Medianus (Median Nerve).—The median nerve enters the palm by passing deep to the transverse carpal liga- ment with the flexor tendons. In this part of its course it is overlapped by the mucous sheath which is wrapped around the tendons. Further, before it emerges it assumes a flattened form, and divides into two portions. Of these, the lateral division is slightly the smaller of the tw'o, and gives off— (i) a stout short branch to some of the intrinsic muscles of the thumb; (2) three digital branches which go to the two sides of the thumb and the lateral side of the index finger. The muscular branch takes origin at the distal border of the transverse carpal ligament, and at once turns laterally to supply the abductor pollicis, the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the opponens pollicis. The proper volar digital nerves which run along the medial side of the thumb, and the lateral side of the index, give several branches to the fold of integument which stretches between the roots of these digits; whilst the proper volar digital branch to the lateral border of the index gives a minute twig to the first or most lateral lumbrical muscle. The larger 7Jiedial divisio?i of the median nerve divides into two branches. Of these one runs towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and splits into the proper volar digital nerves for the adjacent sides of those digits. P'rom this nerve a twig to the second lumbrical muscle is given off. The second common volar digital branch of the medial division of the median proceeds towards the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, and divides into the proper volar digital branches for their contiguous margins. In some instances the latter nerve, supplies a twig to the third lumbrical muscle. In the palm the digital branches of the median proceed distally deep to the superficial volar arch, but as they approach the fingers they come to lie volar to the common volar digital arteries, which in many cases may be observed to pass through, or perforate, the nerves. As the proper volar digital nerves lie upon the sides of the fingers, numerous1 20 THE UPPER EXTREMITY branches are given to the integument; and if the dissector exercises sufficient patience and care in the dissection, he will notice attached to the nerve twigs numerous minute, oval, seed-like bodies. These are the Pacmian bodies. At the extremity of the fingers each of the proper volar digital nerves divides into two terminal branches. Of these, one ramifies in the pulp, whilst the other inclines dorsally to reach the bed upon which the nail rests. Several twigs pass to the dorsal aspects of the fingers, and these are chiefly responsible for the supply of the integument on the dorsal aspects of the second and third phalanges. Nervus Ulnaris (Ulnar Nervek—The palmar continuation of the ulnar nerve enters the palm by passing superficial to the transverse carpal ligament. It lies secure from the effects of pressure under the shelter of the pisiform bone, and upon the medial side of the ulnar artery. At this level it divides into two terminal branches—a superficial and a deep. The deep branch is continued distally, upon the transverse carpal ligament, and associates itself with the volar profunda branch of the ulnar artery. It leaves the present dissection by passing dorsally between the abductor and the flexor brevis muscles of the little finger. The supe7-ficial brafich runs distally under cover of the palmaris brevis, to which it gives a branch of supply, and then divides into two common volar digital branches. One of these proceeds obliquely over the short muscles of the little finger to gain the medial side of that digit; the other runs distally to the cleft between the little and ring fingers, and divides into the proper volar digital branches for the adjacent sides of those digits. A branch of communication passes from the second common volar digital branch of the ulnar nerve to the adjoining common volar digital branch of the median nerve. The proper volar digital branches of the ulnar nerve are distributed on the sides of the fingers in precisely the same manner as those derived from the median. Lig. Carpi Transversum (O.T. Anterior Annular Liga- ment).—This is a thick, dense, fibrous band, which stretches across the front of the concavity of the carpus, and converts it into an osteo-fibrous tunnel for the passage of the flexor tendons into the palm. On each side it is attached to the two piers of the carpal arch, viz. on the lateral side to the tubercle1 2 I FOREARM AND HAND of the navicular bone and the ridge of the greater multangular bone, and on the medial side to the pisiform bone and the hook of the os hamatum. Its proximal margin is in a measure continuous with the deep fascia of the forearm, of which it may be considered to be a thickened part; whilst distally, it is connected with the palmar aponeurosis. Upon the volar surface of the transverse carpal ligament the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus is prolonged distally to the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis, whilst on N. M. rte.v. poll. long. A. volaris siiperficialis M. flex. carp, rad Short muscles of thumb M. abd. poll, long.^ palmaris longus ledianus . Lig. carpi transversum ulnaris palmaris brevis N. ulnaris Short muscles of itlle finger -M. ext. poll. brev. A. radiair M. ext. long. M. ext. carp. rad. long. N. radialis ram. super. (O.T. radial) .\f. ext. carp. rad. . e\l. carp, ulnaris .M. ext. dig. quinti N. ulnaris, ramus dorsalis manus .M. ext. dig. comm, and ext. ijulicis Pig. 47. Transverse section through the Wrist at the level of the Distal Row of Carpal Bones to show the Carpal Tunnel. The Tendons of the .f.®!" P'g'"5rum Sublimis, Flexor Digitorum Profundus, and Flexor 1 ollicis Longus are seen within the Tunnel. each side several of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger take origin from it. Close to its medial attachment the uinar artery and nerve find their way into the palm by pass- ing superficial to it and deep to a more superficial fascias band, the ligameutiun carpi volare, which is attached on the medial side to the pi.siform and the hook of the os hamatum, and on the lateral side to the tubercle of the navicular and the ridge of the great multangular bone. I he tunnel which the transverse carpal ligament forms with the volar concavity of the carpus is transversely oval in shape, and it opens distally into the intermediate compartment of the palm. Through it pass the tendons of the flexorI 2 2 THE UPPER EXTREMITY digitorum sublimis, the flexor digitorum profundus, the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, and the median nerve. The relation of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to the transverse carpal ligament is peculiar. It pierces the lateral attachment of the ligament, and proceeds distally in the groove of the os multangulum majus in a special compartment provided with a special mucous sheath. Mucous Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons.—As the flexor tendons and the median nerve pass through the carpal tunnel they are enveloped in two mucous sheaths, which at the same time line the walls of the canal, and thus greatly facilitate the Median nerve Tendons of flexor digitorum profundus Sheath of flexor pollicis longus Tendon of fle.xor pollicis longus Sheath of flexor carpi radialis Tendon of flexor carpi radialis Lig. carpi transversum (O.T. ant. annular lig.) Tendons of flexor digitorum sublimis Cavity of synovial sheath t'lG. 48.—Diagram illustrating the relation of the .Synovial Sheath to the Flexor Tendons. free play of the tendons behind the transverse carpal liga- ment. As already stated, these sheaths are two in number. One is wrapped around the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, the other invests the tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus and flexor digitorum sublimis. Both are prolonged proximally into the forearm for an inch or more, and both are carried distally into the palm in the form of diverticula upon the diverging tendons. The diverticula in relation to the tendons which go to the index, middle, and ring fingers, end near the middle of the palm. Those upon the tendons of the thumb and little finger, however, are prolonged distally into the digits, and line the fibrous sheaths which confine the tendons upon the volar aspects of the phalanges. It is not likely that these mucous sheaths have been preserved intact throughout the previous dissection of forearm and palm ; but should theyFOREARM AND HAND ■23 turn out to be uninjured, a very striking demonstration may be obtained by inflating them with air by means of the blowpipe. The apertures through which the air is introduced should be made at the proximal margin of the transverse ligament. It is said that the mucous sheath which invests the tendons of the fle.xor digitorum sublimis and flexor digitorum profundus is divided by a vertical partition into two compartments, and that the lateral of these communicates, by means of a small aperture near the upper border of the transverse carpal liga- ment, with the mucous sheath of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Flexor Tendons.—Open the carpal tunnel by making a vertical incision through the transverse carpal ligament at its middle. The arrangement of the flexor tendons can now be studied, and the mucous sheath dissected from the surface of each. The tendon of the flexor pollicis longus occupies the lateral part of the canal, and gaining the palm turns laterally to reach the phalanges of the thumb. The four tendons of the flexor sublimis are arranged in pairs behind the transverse carpal ligament; those for the little and the index fingers lying dorsal to those for the ring and middle fingers. Of the tendons of the flexor profutidus^ only that for the index finger is distinct and separate; the other three, as a rule, remain united until they emerge from under cover of the tran.sverse carpal ligament. In the central compartment of the palm the flexor tendons diverge from each other, and two, viz. one from the flexor sublimis, and one from the flexor profundus, go to each of the four fingers. From the tendons of the flexor profundus the lumbrical muscles take origin, and these, with the common volar digital nerves and arteries, will be seen occupying the intervals between the tendons as they approach the roots of the fingers. In the flngers the two flexor tendons run distally upon the volar aspects of the phalanges, and are held in position by the flexor sheaths. These, therefore, must be studied be- fore the insertions of the tendons can be examined. Flexor Sheaths. — Immediately subjacent to the skin, the superficial fa.scia and the proper volar digital arteries and nerves lie the fibrous sheaths which bind the flexor tendons to the volar surfaces of the phalanges and to the volar accessory ligaments of the metacarj)o-phalangeal and inter-THE UPPER EXTREMITY 124 phalangeal joints. Each fibrous sheath consists of a number of parts of which the two strongest, the digital vagifial ligaments^ lie opposite the bodies and are attached to the margins of the first and second phalanges. Such strong bands ! placed opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints would seriously interfere with their movements, therefore, in these regions weaker transverse bands, the aiuiular liga- cruciate bands—the cruciate liga77tents—are often found, intervening between the annular ligaments and the stronger portions of the sheaths. The fibrous sheath, together with the phalanges and the volar accessory liga- i ments of the metacarpo- phalangeal and interphalan- geal joints, forms, in each finger, an osteo-fibrous canal, in which are enclosed the tendons of the flexor digi- torum sublimis and of the flexor digitorum profundus together with their surround- ing mucous sheath. The fibrous sheaths in front of one or more of the fingers may now be opened. They will be seen to be lined by a mucous sheath, which is reflected over the enclosed tendons so as to give each a separate investment. The mucous sheath of the little finger has been seen to be a direct pro- longation from the common mucous sheath of the flexor tendons; the other three are distinct from this, and are carried proximally into the palm. They envelop the tendons of the ring, index, and middle fingers, as far as a line drawn across the palm immediately proximal to the heads of the metacarpal bones. If the flexor tendons be raised from the phalanges certain mucous folds will be noticed connecting them to the bones. 'These are termed the viticula tendina. Of these we dis- ments, are formed. In addition Fig. 49.—Diagram to illustrate the ar- rangement of the Synovial Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons.125 FOREARM AND HAND tinguish two kinds, viz. vincula brevia and longa. In the accompanying illustration (Fig. 50) the connections of these may be seen. The vincula brevia are triangular folds, which connect the tendons near their insertions to the volar aspect of the adjacent phalan.x. The vincula longa are not invariably present. They are placed more proximally, and are narrow, weak folds which pass between the tendons and the bones. Insertions of the Flexor Tendons.—The insertions of the two flexor tendons can now be studied. On the volar side of the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sublimis becomes flattened and folded round the subjacent cylindrical tendon of the flexor profundus. It then splits into two parts, which pass dorsal to the tendon of the flexor profundus, and allow Fig. 50.—Flexor Tendons of the Finger with Ligg. vaginnlia. the latter to proceed onwards between them. Dorsal to the deep tendon the two portions of the tendon of the flexor sublimis become united by their margins, and then they diverge, to be inserted into the borders of the body of the second phalanx.^ By this arrangement the flattened tendon of the flexor sublimis forms a ring, or short tubular passage, through which the tendon of the flexor profundus proceeds onwards to the base of the ungual phalanx, into which it is inserted. In each of the four fingers the same arrangement is found; the tendon of the flexor sublimis is inserted by two slips into the margins of the volar surface of the second phalanx, whilst the tendon of the flexor profundus is in- serted into the volar aspect of the base of the terminal phalanx. ' Where the margins of the two slips of the tendon of the flexor sublimis are united behind the tendon of the flexor profundus, a decussation of fibres takes place between the two slips. Ligamenta longa Lateral metacarpo- . phalangeal ligament126 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Tendon of the Flexor Pollicis Longus.—This tendon pro- ceeds distally, in the interval between two of the muscles of the thumb (viz. the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the oblique part of the adductor pollicis),. and also in the interval between the two sesamoid bones which play upon the head of the metacarpal bone. Reaching the proximal phalanx, it enters a fibrous sheath constructed upon a similar plan to those of the fingers. When this is opened the tendon will be observed to be inserted into the volar aspect of the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The mucous sheath which surrounds the tendon during its passage through the carpal tunnel is continuous with the sheath which invests the tendon in front of the phalanges. Dissection.—Throw distally the superficial volar arch. Divide it on the medial side distal to the origin of the profunda artery of the palm, and on the lateral side at the point where it is joined by the superficial volar artery. The median nerve may also be severed and its branches turned aside, but care should be taken to preserve the two branches which it gives to the lumbrical muscles, and also the stout branch which enters the muscles of the thenar eminence. Lastly, cut through the fleshy belly of the flexor digitorum sublimis in the forearm, and, raising its tendons from the carpal hollow, throw them as far distally as possible. The tendons of the flexor digitorum profundus and the attached lumbrical muscles are now fully displayed. Mm. Lumbricales.—These are four slender fleshy bellies which arise from the tendons of the flexor digitorum pro- fundus as they traverse the palm. The first lumbrical arises from the lateral side of the tendon for the index finger; the second lumbrical springs from the lateral border of the tendon for the middle finger; whilst the third and fourth lumbricals take origin from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie (viz. the tendons for the middle, ring, and little fingers). The little muscles pass distally and end in delicate tendons on the lateral sides of the fingers. Each is inserted into the lateral margin of the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon, which lies upon the dorsal aspect of the proximal phalanx. Dissection.—The flexor digitorum profundus may be divided in the fore- arm and thrown distally. Great care must be taken in raising the tendons and lumbrical muscles from the palm, because slender twigs from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve enter the two medial lumbrical muscles on their dorsal aspects. These can easily be secured if ordinary caution be observed. The deep volar arch and the deep branch of the jjalmar part of the ulnar nerve are now exposed, and a favourable opportunity is given for studying the short muscles of the thumb and little finger.FOREARM AND HAND 127 Short Muscles of the Thumb.—The abductor pollicis forms the most prominent and lateral part of the ball of the thumb. The superficial head of the fiexor pollicis b7-evis lies immediately to the medial side of the abductor; and by separ- ating the one from the other, the opponens pollicis will be exposed. These three muscles lie to the lateral side of the tendon of the fiexor pollicis longus. To the medial side of this tendon, and placed deeply in the palm, is a fan-shaped muscular sheet, the adductor pollicis, imperfectly separated into a proximal and distal part by the radial artery as it enters the palm. The proximal is the oblique and the distal the trans- verse part of the muscle. In dissecting these muscles the muscular branch of the median nerve must be traced to those which lie upon the lateral side of the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the deep branch of the ulnar must be followed, and its branches to the adductors of the thumb secured. The abductor pollicis arises from the volar aspect of the transverse carpal ligament and the os multangulum majus. It is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb, and slightly into the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the proximal phalanx. Its nerve of supply comes from the media?i. The superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis^ takes origin from the transverse carpal ligament, and is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. It is supplied by the tuedian nerve. The oppone7ts pollicis springs from the transverse carpal ligament and the ridge on the front of the os multangulum majus. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted into the entire length of the lateral border and the adjacent part of the volar surface of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its nerve of supply is derived from the 77iedian. The adductor pollicis consists of two parts, an oblique part (O.T. oblique adductor pollicis) and a transverse part (O.T. the transverse adductor pollicis). The oblique part arises from the os multangulum minus, the os capitatum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The transverse part springs from the lower two-thirds of the volar border of the third metacarpal bone. The two parts con- ' The term superficial head, applied to this muscle, suggests the presence of a deep head. Such a head is present. It is the interosseus primus volaris of Henle {v. p. 147).THE UPPER EXTREMITY 128 verge laterally, along the medial side of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, and they are inserted together into the medial side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. A strong slip will generally be seen to deviate laterally from the lateral border of the muscle. This passes dorsal to the long flexor tendon, and joins the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis. Both parts of the adductor pollicis are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Os capitatum Os multangulum minus Os naviculare manus Abductor pollicis Os multangulum majii Opponens pollicis Abd. pollicis longus Flexor carpi radialis M.l. Adductor pollicis Palmar interossei M.v. Os lunatum Os hamatum Os triquetrum Flexor carpi ulnaris pisiforme Abductor digiti quinti Flexor brevis igiti quinti Flexor carpi ulnaris Opponens digiti quinti M.HI. M.IV. Fig. 51.—Volar aspect of the Bones of the Carpus and Metacarpus with Muscular Attachments mapped out. Two sesamoid bones are developed in connection with the tendons of the short muscles of the thumb as they are inserted on either side of the base of the proximal phalanx. Short Muscles of the Little Finger.—The abductor digiti quinti (O.T. minimi digiti) lies on the medial and volar aspect of the hypothenar eminence, and the flexor digiti quinti brevis (O.T. 7ninimi digiti) upon its lateral side. On separating these from each other, the opponens digiti quinti (O.T. fninimi digiti) is seen on a deeper plane, and in the interval between them. The abductor digiti quinti arises from the pisiform bone.FOREARM AND HAND 1 29 and is inserted into the medial side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little finger. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The flexor digiti quinti brevis is composed of a single fleshy belly which springs from the hook of the os hamatum and the transverse carpal ligament, and is inserted into the medial side of the proximal phalanx of the little finger, in common with the abductor. This muscle is sometimes much reduced in size, and frequently more or less completely incorporated with the opponens. Its nerve supply comes from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. The oppofiens digiti quinti arises from the transverse carpal ■ligament, and the hook of the os hamatum, and its fibres spread out to obtain insertion into the entire length of the medial margin of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The deep bra7ich of the ubiar gives it its nerve of supply. Ramus Profundus Nervi Ulnaris (Deep Branch of the palmar part of the Ulnar Nerve).—This nerve springs from the parent trunk on the volar aspect of the transverse carpal ligament, and gives off a branch which supplies the three short muscles of the little finger. Accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar artery it sinks into the interval between the abductor and flexor digiti quinti brevis, and turns laterally across the palm deep to the flexor tendons. Near the lateral border of the palm the deep branch of the ulnar nerve breaks up into terminal twigs which supply the adductor pollicis, and the first dorsal interosseous muscle. In its course across the palm it lies along the concavity or proximal border of the deep volar arch, and sends three fine branches distally in front of the three interosseous spaces. They supply the interosseous muscles in the spaces, while the two medial also give branches to the dorsal surfaces of the two medial lumbrical muscles. The third lumbrical has frequently a double nerve supply, a branch from the deep part of the ulnar nerve, and, not uncommonly, a second twig from the median enters its volar aspect. The deep branch of the ulnar may, therefore, be said to supply all the muscles of the palm which lie to the medial side of the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, whilst the median supplies the three muscles which lie to the lateral side of that tendon. There are two exceptions to this generalisation, viz. the two lateral lumbrical muscles, which lie upon the medial VOL. I—9130 THE UPPER EX'PREMITY side of the tendon, and are yet supplied by the median nerve. Arcus Volaris Profundus (O.T. Deep Palmar Arch).—The artery which takes the chief part in the formation of this arch is the radial. This vessel enters the palm by passing to the volar surface through the proximal part of the first interosseous space between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. In the present state of the dissection it makes its appearance between the contiguous margins of the oblique and transverse portions of the adductor pollicis. It runs medially upon the interossei muscles and the meta- carpal bones immediately distal to their bases. As it ap- proaches the fifth metacarpal bone it is joined by the deep volar branch of the ulnar artery, and in this manner the deep volar arch is completed. The deep volar arch does not show so strong a curve as the superficial volar arch, and it is placed at a more proximal level in the palm. It is closely accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve; and is separated from the super- ficial volar arch by the group of flexor tendons and their sheaths, the lumbrical muscles, the branches of the median nerve which occupy the intermediate compartment of the palm, and also, at its medial end, by the short flexor of the fifth digit, dorsal to which the deep volar branch of the ulnar artery passes to join the radial. The branches which spring from the deep volar arch are: (i) the recurrejit—a few small twigs which run proximally in front of the carpus to anastomose with branches of the volar carpal arch; (2) perforating branches^ which pass dorsally in the upper parts of the interosseous spaces to anastomose with the dorsal metacarpal arteries; and (3) the volar metaca7'pal branches—three in number—which pass distally, volar to the interosseous spaces, and unite, near the roots of the fingers, with the corresponding common volar digital arteries from the superficial volar arch. Sometimes these branches enlarge and take the place of the corresponding common volar digital arteries. Dissection.—To bring llie arteria volaris indicis r.adialis and the arteria princep.s pollicis into view, the parts of the adductor pollicis must he detached from their origins and turned laterally. The radial artery is now seen passing volarwards between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle.FOREARM AND HAND 131 Arteria Volaris Indicia Radialis, and Arteria Princeps PoUicis (O.T. Eadialis Indicia and Princepa Pollicia Arteriea). —These arteries spring from the radial as it proceeds towards the volar surface between the first and second metacarpal bones. The arteria volaris indicis radialis runs distally between the transverse part of the adductor pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the lateral border of the index, along which it proceeds as its lateral volar proper digital artery. The arteria prhiceps pollicis takes a course distally and laterally under cover of the oblique part of the adductor pollicis, and gains the volar aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Here it lies dorsal to the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, and divides into the volar proper digital arteries of the thumb. These branches make their appear- ance in the interval between the adductor and the superficial head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and are carried distally on either side of the tendon of the long flexor. Surgical Anatomy of the Palm and Fingers.—When an abscess forms in the intermediate compartment of the palm early surgical interference is urgently called for. The dense palmar aponeurosis effectually prevents the passage of the pus to the surface of the palm, whilst an easy route proximally into the forearm is offered to it by the open carpal tunnel, through which the flexor tendons enter the palm. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that before this can occur the surgeon should make an opening in the palm by means of which the pus can escape. In making such an incision it is important to bear in mind the position of the various vessels which occupy the intermediate compartment of the palm. As previously stated, the level of the superficial volar arch can be indicated by drawing a line transversely across the palm from the distal margin of the outstretched thumb. The deep volar arch lies half an inch more proximally. The volar common digital arteries, which spring from the convexity of the superficial volar arch, run in line with the clefts between the fingers. An incision, therefore, which is made distal to the superficial volar arch and in a direction corresponding to the central line of one of the fingers, may be considered free from danger in so far as the vessels are concerned. The loose mucous sheath which envelops the flexor tendons as they pass deep to the transverse carpal ligament has been noticed to extend proxim- ally into the distal part of the forearm, and distally into the palm. When this is attacked by inflammatory action it is apt to become distended with fluid (thecal ganglion), and the anatomical arrangement of parts at once offers an explanation of the appearance which is presented. There is a bulging in the palm, and a bulging in the distal part of the forearm, but no swelling at all at the wrist. Here the dense transverse carpal ligament resists the expansion of the mucous sheath, and an hour-glass constriction is evident at this level. The fingers are subject to an inflammatory process, termed whitlow, and, in connection with this, it is essential to remember that the flexor fibrous sheath ends on the base of the distal phalanx in each digit. I—9 aTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 132 When the whitlow occurs more distally, in the pulp of the finger, the vitality of the distal part of the ungual phalanx is endangered, but the flexor tendons may be regarded as being tolerably safe. When the inflammation occurs more proximally, and involves the flexor sheath, as it generally does, sloughing of the tendons is to be apprehended, unless an immediate opening is made. And no slight superficial incision will suffice. The knife must be carried deep into the centre of the finger, so as to freely lay open the sheath containing the tendons. Early interference in cases of whitlow of the thumb and little finger is even more urgently required than in the case of the other three digits, because the digital mucous sheaths of the former are, as a rule, offshoots from the great common mucous sheath of the flexor tendons, and offer a ready means for the proximal extension of the inflammatory action. Every amputation of the fingers above the insertion of the tendons of the flexor profundus involves the opening of the flexor sheaths, and this, no doubt, explains the occasional occurrence of palmar trouble after operations of this kind. The open tubes offer a ready passage, by means of which septic material may travel proximally into the palm, and, in the case of the thumb and little finger, into the carpal tunnel and distal part of the forearm. Dorsum and Lateral Border of the Forearm. The cutaneous nerves and vessels in this region have already been studied (p. 65). The parts which still require to be examined are :— 1. The deep fascia. 2. The supinator and extensor muscles. 3. The dorsal interosseous artery. 4. The perforating or terminal branch of the volar interosseous artery. 5. The dorsal interosseous nerve. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia on the dorsal aspect of the forearm is stronger than that which clothes its volar surface. At the elbow it is firmly attached to the epicondyles of the humerus and the olecranon, and it receives a reinforcement of fibres from the tendon of the triceps muscle. There also it affords origin to the extensor muscles, and sends strong septa between them. At the wrist a thickened band—dorsal carpal ligatnent—is developed in connection with it. This can readily be distinguished from the thinner portions of the fascia, with which it is continuous proximally and distally, and it will be observed to stretch obliquely from the styloid process of the radius medially and distally across the wrist to the medial side of the carpus. Dissection.—The deep fascia should now be removed, but that portion of it near the elbow, which gives origin to the subjacent muscles, should be left in place. The dorsal carpal ligament should also be artificially separated and retained in situ.133 FOREARM AND HAND Superficial Muscles.—The muscles in this region consist of a superficial and a deep group. The superficial muscles, as we proceed from the lateral to the medial border of the forearm, are:—(1) the brachio-radialis; (2) the extensor carpi radialis longus; (3) the extensor carpi radialis brevis; (4) the extensor digitorum communis; (5) the extensor digiti quinti proprius; (6) the extensor carpi ulnaris; and (7) the anconasus. This group therefore comprises one flexor of the elbow, three extensors of the wrist, two extensors of the fingers, and a feeble extensor of the forearm at the elbow- joint, viz. the anconaeus. In the lower part of the forearm the extensor digitorum communis is separated from the extensor carpi radialis brevis by a narrow interval, and in this appear two muscles belonging to the deep group. These turn round the lateral margin of the forearm, upon the surface of the radial extensors of the wrist, and end in tendons which go to the thumb. The proximal muscle is the abductor pollicis longus, and the distal muscle the extensor pollicis brevis. They are placed in close contact, and so intimately are their tendons connected that in many cases they appear at first sight to be blended together by their margins. Four of the superficial muscles arise by a common origin from the anterior part of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, and at the same time derive fibres from the investing fascia and the septa it sends in between them. These are the extensor carpi radialis brevis, the extensor digitorum com- munis, the extensor digiti quinti proprius, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. The superficial muscles should be cleaned, and isolated as far as possible from each other. M. Brachio-radialis (O.T. Supinator Longus).—This muscle lies more on the volar than on the dorsal surface of the forearm. It takes origin in the arm from the proximal two-thirds of the lateral epicondylar ridge of the humerus and from the lateral intermuscular septum. Near the middle of the forearm a flat tendon emerges from its fleshy belly, and this proceeds distally to gain insertion into the lateral aspect of the expanded distal extremity of the radius at the base of the styloid process. The nerve of supply to this muscle comes from the radial nerve {musculo-spii'af). M. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longus (O.fl’. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior).—The long radial extensor of the carpus is placed dorsal to the brachio-radialis. It arises from the i-9iTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 134 distal third of the lateral epicondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the lateral intermuscular septum. From the fleshy portion of the muscle a long tendon proceeds, which passes under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, and is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. This muscle is supplied by the radial nerve ( musculo-spiral). M. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevis (O.T. Extensor Carpi Os lunatiim Os capitatiim Os naviculare manus Extensor carpi radialis brevis Os muitangulum minus Os muitangulum majus Extensor carpi radialis longus Abductor poIUcis longus M.m. Extensor carpi ulnaris M.V. Os triquetrum Os pisiform Os hamatum Fig. 52.—Dorsal aspect of the Bones of the Carpus and Metacarpus with Muscular Attachments mapped out. Radialis Brevior).—The extensor carpi radialis brevis is closely associated with the preceding muscle. It arises by the common extensor tendon from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus; it also derives fibres from the radial collateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the investing deep fascia, and the fibrous septa in connection with it. The tendon of the muscle accompanies that of the long radial extensor under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, and is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the third metacarpal bone immediately beyond the root of its styloid process, 'rhis muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve.FOREARM AND HAND 135 M. Extensor Digitorum Communis.—The extensor digi- torum communis takes origin by the common tendon from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. The deep fascia and the intermuscular septa in relation to it also contribute fibres. Its fleshy belly, in the lower part of the forearm, sends out four tendons, which pass under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament. On the dorsum of the hand they diverge and proceed onwards to the four fingers. Their arrangement and attachments on the dorsum of the hand and fingers will be afterwards considered (p. 145). This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous 7ierve. M. Extensor Digiti Quinti Proprius (O.T. Extensor MiTiimi Digiti).—The extensor digiti quinti proprius is a slender fleshy belly which at first sight appears to be a part of the preceding muscle, but its tendon passes through a special compartment in the dorsal carpal ligament. It arises in common with the extensor digitorum communis, and is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. M. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris.—^The extensor carpi ulnaris arises, by means of the common extensor tendon, from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor digiti quinti proprius. In the middle third of the forearm it receives some fibres from the strong fascial layer which binds it to the dorsal border of the ulna. The tendon does not become free from the fleshy fibres until it approaches close to the wrist. It occupies the groove on the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the ulna, between the head and styloid process, and passing under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament is inserted into the tubercle on the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal mterosseous nerve. M. Anconaeus (Anconeus). — The anconaeus is a short triangular muscle placed on the dorsal aspect of the elbow-joint. It presents a narrow origin from the posterior aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. From this its fibres spread — the upper fibres passing transversely medially, whilst the others proceed medially and distally with an increasing degree of obliquity towards its distal end. It is inserted into the lateral surfece of the olecranon, and into the proximal third of the dorsal surface of the body of the ulna.THE UPPER EXTREMPPY 136 The anconceus is frequently more or less directly continuous with the triceps, and this, together with the fact that it gets a special branch of supply from the radial nerve, has led some anatomists to regard it as a piece of the triceps muscle. This is not the case, however ; it belongs to, and is therefore properly classified with, the group of muscles on the extensor aspect of the forearm. The nerve of supply to the anconteus has already been dissected. It is a long slender branch from the radial 7ierve (musculo-spiral), which descends to its destination in the substance of the medial head of the triceps. In addition to this, the distal part of the muscle usually receives a twig from the dorsal interosseous nerve. Dissection.—Reflect the extensor digitorum communis and the extensor digiti quinti proprius. Divide the fleshy belly of each about its middle, and throw them proximally and distally. In doing this care must be taken to secure and preserve the nerve twigs from the dorsal interosseous nerve which enter these muscles on their deep surface. The dorsal interosseous artery and nerve, together with the deep muscles, are now exposed, and may be fully dissected. In the distal part of the forearm the terminal part of the dorsal interosseous nerve dips under cover of the extensor pollicis longus, to reach the interosseous membrane and the back of the carpus. In following this part of the nerve, the terminal or perforating branch of the volar interosseous artery will be seen appearing on the dorsum of the forearm, under cover of the extensor pollicis longus. Deep Muscles.—These are—(i) the supinator; (2) the abductor pollicis longus; (3) the extensor pollicis brevis; (4) the extensor pollicis longus; and (5) the extensor indicis proprius. The supinator will be recognised from the close manner in which it is applied to the proximal part of the body of the radius. The other muscles take origin proximo-distally in the order in which they have been named. The attach- ments of the supinator cannot be satisfactorily studied at present. They will be described at a later stage of the dissection. M. Abductor Pollicis Longus (O.T. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis).—This muscle arises from both bones of the forearm, and from the interosseous membrane which stretches between them. Its origiti from the radius corre- sponds to the middle third of its dorsal surface; its origin frotn the ulna is more proximal, from the lateral part of the dorsal surface of the body immediately distal to the oblique line which marks the distal limit of the insertion of the anconteus. The muscle proceeds distally and laterally, and comes to the surface in the interval between the extensor digitorum com-137 FOREARM AND HAND M. biceps brachii M. supinator M. pronator teres munis and the extensor carpi radialis brevis. Closely accom- panied by the ex- tensor pollicis , viiM. . I . . I r M. triceps brevis it crosses the two radial extensors. The tendon which issues from it at this point is con- tinued distally over the lateral side of the ex- panded lowerend of the radius, and under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament. It is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. M. Extensor Pollicis Brevis (O.T. Extensor Prtmi Internodii Pollicis). — This muscle is placed along the distal border of the pre- ceding muscle. It arises from a small portion of the dorsal surface of the radius, and also from the in- terosseous mem- brane. Its tendon is closely applied to that of the abductor M. flex carp, uln M. Ext carp, uln Ext. carp, uln. Uad. ext.s. Abd. poll. long, and ext. poll, brev. Ext. dig. comm, and ext. indicis Ext. poll. long. Fig. 53.—Dorsal aspect of Bones of Forearm with Attachments of Muscles mapped out.138 THE UPPER EXTREMITY pollicis longus, and accompanies it beneath the dorsal carpal ligament. It may be traced on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the base of the proximal phalanx, into which it is inserted. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. M. Extensor Pollicis Longus (O.T. Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis).—-The extensor pollicis longus takes origin from the lateral part of the dorsal surface of the body of the ulna in its middle third, and also from the interosseous membrane. It, to some extent, overlaps the preceding muscle, and it ends in a tendon which passes under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, where it occupies a deep narrow groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the radius. On the carpus it takes an oblique course, and, crossing the tendons of the two radial extensors and the radial artery, reaches the thumb. It is inserted into the base of the distal phalanx of that digit. The extensor pollicis longus is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. When the thumb is powerfully extended in the living person the tendons of its three last-mentioned muscles become prominent on the lateral aspect of the wrist. The oblique course of the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus is rendered evident, and a distinct depression between it and the other two tendons is seen. M. Extensor Indicis Proprius (O.T. Extensor Indicis).— The extensor indicis proprius arises below the preceding muscle from a limited area' on the dorsal surface of the ulna and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon accom- panies those of the extensor communis under cover of the dorsal carpal ligament, and will afterwards be traced to its insertion on the index finger. This muscle is supplied by the dorsal interosseous nerve. Arteria Interossea Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Artery). — This vessel arises in the volar part of the forearm, from the common interosseous branch of the ulnar artery. It at once proceeds dorsally between the two bones of the forearm, in the interval between the proxi- mal border of the interosseous membrane and the oblique cord. In the present dissection it makes its appearance between the contiguous borders of the supinator and the abductor pollicis longus, and then it extends distally between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. It gives branches to these, and by the time it has reached the139 FOREARM AND HAND M. biceps brachii M. brachialis M. abd. pol). long. M. ext. poll. brev. A. inteross. recurr. M. pronator teres Nerve to ext. pollicis longus and ext. indicis N. inteross. dorsalis* M. ext. indicis N. inteross. dorsalis M. anconaeus- M. ext. dig. quinti M. ext. dig. comm. A. carpea dorsalis A. radialis Fig. 54.—Dissection of the Dorsum of the Foroarni and Hand.T 40 THE UPPER EXTREAHTY ■A. brachialis A. profunda ‘brachii (O.T. superior profunda) A. collateralis .ulnaris superior (O.T. inferior profunda) distal end of the forearm it is greatly reduced in size. In a well-injected limb it will be seen to end on the dorsum of the carpus by anastomosing with the volar interosseous artery and the dorsal carpal arteries. In addition to the branches which it supplies to the muscles, it gives off one large branch called the interosseous recurrent artery. The arteria inter os sea recurrens takes origin from the parent trunk as it appears between the supin- ator and the abductor pollicis longus, and turns proximally, under cover of the anconccus muscle, to reach the dorsal aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. The ancon- seus should be detached from its origin and thrown medially, in order that the artery may be traced to its termination. The inter- osseous recurrent artery will then be seen to end by anastomosing with the posterior terminal branch of the profunda artery of the arm. Anastomosis arormd the Elbow - joint. — The series of inosculations around the elbow should now be reviewed as a whole. A distinct inos- culation will be found to take place upon both the anterior and posterior aspect of each epicondyle of the humerus. Behind the lateral epicondyle the interosseous recurrent artery joins the postei'ior branch of the profunda brachii artety: anterior to the same epicondyle the anterior branch of the proftmda Imichii artery communicates A. collateralis .ulnaris inferior (O.T. anasto- matic) Ant. terminal of A. pro- funda brachii •A. radialis ulnaris Aa. recurrentes ulnares A. interossea recurrens . interossea dorsalis --■-—-••'A. interossea volaris Fig. 55.—Diagram of Anastomosis around the Elbow-joint.141 FOREARM AND HAND with the radial recurrent'. On the medial side of the joint the anterior posterior uhtar recurrent arteries ascend respectively in front of and behind the medial epicondyle, the former anastomoses with the anterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery, and the latter with the posterior branch of the same artery and with the superior ulnar collateral artery. In this sketch of the anastomosis around the elbow-joint only the leading inosculations are mentioned. Rich networks of fine vessels are formed over the olecranon and the two epicondyles of the humerus. One very distinct and tolerably constant arch requires special mention. It is formed by a branch which crosses the posterior aspect of the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa, and connects the posterior branch of the profunda brachii artery with the posterior branch of the inferior ulnar collateral artery. Nervus Interosseus Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Nerve).—This is the continuation of the profunda terminal branch of the radial (musculo-spiral) nerve. It reaches the dorsum of the forearm by traversing the substance of the supinator, and at the same time winding round the lateral aspect of the body of the radius. It emerges from the supina- tor a short distance proximal to the distal border of the muscle, and is carried distally between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the forearm. Reaching the proximal border of the extensor pollicis longus, it leaves the dorsal interosseous artery, dips anterior to the extensor pollicis longus, and joins the volar interosseous artery on the dorsal aspect of the inter- osseous membrane. It will afterwards be traced to the dorsum of the carpus, where it ends, under cover of the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis, in a gangliform enlargement. The branches which spring from the dorsal interosseous nerve in the forearm are given entirely to muscles. Before the profunda branch pierces the supinator and becomes the dorsal interosseous nerve, it gives branches both to it and to the extensor carpi radialis brevis. After it appears on the dorsum of the forearm as the dorsal interosseous nerve it supplies the extensor digitorum communis, the extensor digiti quinti pro- prius, the extensor carpi ulnaris, the abductor pollicis longus, two extensors of the thumb, and the extensor indicis proprius. It therefore supplies all the muscles on the lateral and dorsal aspects of the forearm, with the exception of the brachio-radialis and the extensor carpi radialis longus, which derive their nerve-THE UPPER EXTREMITY 142 supply directly from the radial nerve (O.T. muscuh-spiraf). The anconaeus also derives its main nerve of supply from the radial, but it also frequently obtains a second twig from 'the dorsal interosseous nerve. Terminal Branch of the Arteria Interossea Volaris.— The terminal or perforating branch of the volar inter- osseous artery is a vessel of some size. It appears through the interosseous membrane, about two inches or so proximal to the distal end of the forearm. Accompanied by the dorsal interosseous nerve it runs distally under cover of the extensor pollicis longus, and ends on the dorsum of the carpus by anastomosing with the dorsal carpal arch and the dorsal interosseous artery. Dorsal Aspect of the Wrist and Hand. Upon the dorsal aspect of the wrist and hand the following structures have still to be examined:— 1. The radial artery and its branches. 2. The dorsal carpal ligament. 3. The extensor tendons of the fingers. Radial Artery.—It is only a small portion of the radial artery that is seen in this dissection. At the distal end of the radius the vessel turns dorsally below the styloid process and upon the radial collateral ligament of the radio-carpal joint. Having gained the dorsal aspect of the carpus, it runs distally upon the navicular and os mult- angulum majus, and finally disappears from view by turning volarwards through the proximal part of the first interosseous space, and between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (Fig. 54, p. 139). In the palm it takes the chief share in the formation of the deep volar arch. While the radial artery rests on the radial collateral carpal ligament, it is deeply placed, and is crossed by the tendons of the abductor pollicis longus and the extensor pollicis brevis. On the carpus it lies nearer the surface, and is crossed obliquely by the extensor pollicis longus. It is accompanied by two vefia comi/es and some fine filaments from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the forearm which twine around it.'43 FOREAR^[ AND HAND The branches which spring from the radial artery in this part of its course are of small size. They are :— 1. The dorsal carpal. 2. The dorsal metacarpal. 3. The two dorsales pollicis arteries. 4. The dorsalis indicis artery. The dorsal radial carpal artery takes origin on the lateral aspect of the wrist, and runs medially upon the carpus to join the corresponding carpal branch of the ulnar artery. The arch thus formed is placed under cover of the extensor tendons, and gives off two branches which run distally in the third and fourth inter-metacarpal intervals. They are termed the seco7id and third dorsal 7netacarpal arteries. The first dorsal 77ietacarpal artery arises, as a rule, from the radial trunk, although not infrequently it may be seen to spring from the dorsal carpal arch. It extends distally in the second interosseous space. The three dorsal metacarpal arteries are brought into connection -with the arteries in the palm by communicating branches. They are joined by the three perforating twigs of the arcus volaris profundus. These make their appearance on the dorsum between the heads of the three medial dorsal inter- osseous muscles. Further, at the distal ends of the interosseous spaces the dorsal metacarpal arteries usually send raw/ per- fora7ttes hiferiores to join the corresponding common volar digital arteries in the palm. The hvo dorsal arteries of the tlnwib run distally upon either side of that digit. The dorsal artery of the mdex is distributed on the lateral side of the index. Dorsal Carpal Ligament.—This has been seen to be an aponeurotic band which stretches obliquely across the wrist. It is merely a thickened portion of the deep fascia, and its attachments are so arranged that it does not interfere with the free movement of the radius and hand during pronation and supination. On the lateral side it is fixed to the lateral margin of the distal end of the radius, whilst on the medial side it is attached to the os triquetrum and os pisiforme, and also to the palmar aponeurosis. In the case of the transverse carpal liga- ment one large compartment, or tunnel, is formed for the flexor tendons; not so in the case of the dorsal carpal ligament. Partitions or processes proceed from its deep surface, andTHP: upper EX'l'REMITY 144 these are attached to the ridges on the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the radius, so as to form a series of six bridges . Kxlensor pollicis longus Extensor carpi radi;ilis brevi? Extensor carpi rnclialis longus Extensor pollicis brevis Abductor pollicis longus Uadial artery Flexor pollicis longus- Klexor carpi radialis Median nerve Extensor digitorum communis Extensor indicia •proprjus Extensor digiti qinnti propnus Extensor carpi ulnaris Palmaris longus Flexor digitorum sublimis Flexor digitorum profundus .Ulnar artery and nerve Flexor carpi ulnaris Fig. 56,—Transverse section through Forearm immediately proximal to the Wrist-joint to show the arrangement of the Tendons. or compartments for the tendons. Each of these is lined by a special mucous sheath, to facilitate the play of the tendons within it. The different compartments may now be success- Fig. 57.—(From Luschka.) 1. Middle metacarpal bone. 2. Tendon of flexor sublimis. 3. Tendon of flexor profundus. I., II., and III. 4. Second lumbrical muscle. 5. Second dorsal interosseous muscle. 6. Extensor tendon. The three phalanges. ively opened up so that the arrangement of the tendons with reference to the dorsal carpal ligament may be studied. The first compartment is placed on the lateral side of the base of the styloid process of the radius, and corresponds with the broad obliciue groove which is present in this part of theFOREARM AND HAND 145 bone. It contains two tendons, viz. the tendons of the abductor pollicis longus and the extensor pollicis brevis. The second compartment corresponds with the most lateral groove on the dorsal aspect of the radius. It is broad and shallow, and it holds the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longus, and extensor carpi radialis brevis. The third compart7nent is formed over the narrow, deep, oblique intermediate groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the radius, and through it the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus passes. The fourth compartment is placed over the wide shallow groove which marks the medial part of the dorsal aspect of the distal end of the radius. It is traversed by five tendons, viz. the four tendons of the extensor digitorum communis and the tendon of the extensor indicis proprius. The fifth co^npartment is situated over the interval between the distal ends of the radius and ulna. It contains the slender tendon of the extensor digit! quinti proprius. The sixth and most medial compartment^ which corresponds with the groove on the dorsum of the distal end of the ulna, encloses the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor Tendons of the Fingers.—The four tendons of the extensor digitoru?n communis^ when they emerge from their compartment under the dorsal carpal ligatfiefit diverge on the dorsum of the hand to reach the four fingers. ’ The tendon of the ring finger will be seen to be connected by a tendinous slip with the tendon on either side of it. This explains the small degree of independent movement in a backward direction which the ring finger possesses. The arrangement of the tendons on the fingers is the same in each case. Upon the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx the tendon expands so as to cover it completely. Into the margins of this ’■’■dorsal expansion ” the delicate tendons of the lumbrical and inter- osseous muscles are inserted. Near the first interphalangeal joint the expansion becomes marked off into three portions— a central and two lateral. The central part, which is the weakest, is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the second phalanx. The stronger lateral portions unite into one piece beyond this, and gain an insertion into the base of the ungual phalanx. 'I'he tendon of the extensor indicis proprius joins the expan- sion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx of the index finger. VOL. I—10THE UPPER EXTREMITY 146 The tendon of the extensor digiti quintiproprius splits into two parts. Of these the lateral joins the tendon of the common extensor which goes to that digit, whilst the medial ends in the dorsal expansion. Nervus Interosseous Dorsalis (O.T. Posterior Interosseous Nerve).—The terminal filament of this nerve can now be traced distally to the dorsal aspect of the carpus. It passes under cover of the extensor indicis proprius, the tendons of the extensor communis, and the dorsal carpal ligament. On the carpus it ends in a gangliform swelling, from which fine twigs proceed for the supply of the numerous joints in the vicinity. Dissection.—The limb should now be turned round, so that the trans- verse metacarpal ligament which stretches across the volar surface of the heads of the metacarpal bones may be examined previous to the dissection of the interosseous muscles. Transverse Metacarpal Ligament.—The transverse liga- ment of the head of the metacarpal bones is a strong band composed of transverse fibres, which is placed upon the volar aspect of the heads of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. Commencing on the lateral side upon the distal extremity of the index metacarpal, it ends at the medial margin of the hand upon the head of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. It is not directly attached to the bones, but is fixed to the powerful accessory volar ligaments of the four medial metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and it effectually prevents excessive separation of the metacarpal bones from each other. Dissection.—To obtain a satisfactory view of the interosseous muscles the transverse part of the adductor pollicis,iif not previously reflected, should be detached from its origin, and thrown laterally towards its insertion into the thumb. The transverse metacarpal ligament must also be divided in the intervals between the fingers. Mm. Interossei.—The interosseous muscles occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are seven in number, and are arranged in two groups, viz. a dorsal and a volar. The mm. interossei dorsales are four in number, and are more powerful than the volar muscles. They are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the hand, but they are also visible in the palm. They act as abductors of the fingers from the central line of the middle digit, and their in- sertions are arranged in accordance with this action. Each147 FOREARM AND HAND muscle arises by two heads from the contiguous surfaces of the two metacarpal bones between which it lies, and the fibres converge in a pennate manner upon a delicate tendon. In the case of the first or most lateral dorsal interosseous 7nuscle, this tendon is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the first phalanx, and also into the lateral margin of the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon of the index. The second and third dorsal interosseous fnuscles are inserted in a similar manner upon either side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger; whilst the fourth has a corresponding insertion upon the medial aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the ring finger. The first dorsal interosseous muscle is frequently termed the abductor indicis, and between its two heads of origin the radial artery enters the palm. Between the heads of the other three muscles the small perforating arteries pass. The three tnm. interossei volares can only be seen on the palmar aspect of the hand. They act as adductors of the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle digit, and each muscle is placed upon the metacarpal bone of the finger upon which it acts. The first volar mterosseous muscle there- fore arises from the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and its delicate tendon is inserted upon the medial side of that digit, partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the extensor expansion. The secofid pabnar biterosseous muscle springs from the metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and has a similar insertion into the lateral side of that digit. The third pabnar interosseous muscle takes origin from the metacarpal bone, and presents a corresponding insertion into the lateral side of the first phalanx and extensor expansion of the little finger. The interosseous muscles are supplied by the profunda branch of the ulnar nerve. Deep Head of M. Flexor Pollicis Brevis. — This small muscle, which is also known as the m. interosseous primus volaris (Henle), can best be displayed from the dorsal aspect of the hand by reflecting the lateral head of the first dorsal interosseous miuscle. It arises from the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is inserted into the medial sesamoid bone of that digit. It is deeply placed, and is entirely covered, on its volar aspect, by the oblic[ue part of the adductor pollicis. Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis.—The tendon of this muscle should now be traced through the groove on the volar aspect of the os multangulum majus to its insertion into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index. It presents also a minor attachment to the base of the middle metacarpal bone.THE UPPER EXTREMITY 148 Dissection.—All the muscles around the elbow-joint should be removed. In raising the brachialis and the triceps from the anterior and dorsal aspects of the articulation, some care is required to avoid injury to the anterior and posterior parts of the capsule. It is advisable to remove the supinator last, because it is only when this muscle is completely isolated that a proper idea of its attachments and mode of action can be obtained. M. Supinator (O.T. Supinator Brevis).—The supinator envelops the proximal part of the body and the neck of the radius, covering it completely, except on its medial side (Figs. 41, 54, pp. TOO, 139). It arises from the deep de- pression distal to the incisura radialis of the ulna, and also from the radial collateral ligament of the elbow and the annular ligament of the radius. From this origin the fibres sweep round the dorsal, lateral, and volar surfaces of the radius, and clothe its body as far distally as the insertion of the pronator teres. The dorsal interosseous nerve traverses the substance of the muscle, and separates it into two layers. ARTICULATIONS. Articulatio Cubiti (Elbow-joint). This joint includes (i) the articulatio humero-ulnaris, (2) the articulatio humero-radialis, and (3) the articulatio radio- ulnaris proximalis. In the humero-ulnar articulation the trochlea of the humerus is grasped by the incisura semi- lunaris of the ulna. In the radio-humeral articulation the capitelbim of the humerus rests in the shallow fovea capituli of the radius, and in the proximal radio-ulnar articulation the circumferentia arficularis of the head of the radius is held in apposition with the incisura radialis of the ulna by the lig. annulare. The joint is surrounded by a capsule which is reinforced at the sides by collateral ligaments; in addition the interosseous membrane, which passes between the interosseal crests of the radius and ulna, and the oblique cord, which connects the tuberosity of the ulna with the proximal part of the inter- osseous crest of the radius, help to keep the radius and ulna in apposition and are therefore included in the ligaments of the elbow-joint. The ligaments of the elbow-joint are therefore— 1. Capsula articularis. | 4. Lig. annulare radii. 2. Lig. collaterale ulnare. 5. Membrana interossea antibracbii. 3. Lig. collaterale radiale. | 6. Chorda obliqua.149 ARTICULATIONS The articular capsule is attached proximally to the antero- medial and antero-lateral surfaces of the humerus, above the coronoid and radial fossae respectively. At the sides it is attached to the epicondyles and posteriorly to the posterior sur- * face on which the line of attachment passes through the upper part of the fossa olecrani. Distally the capsule is attached to the anterior margin of the proximal, medial, and lateral surfaces of the olecranon ; to the medial and volar margins of the coronoid process of the ulna, and to the annular ligament of the radius. The anterior part of the capsule consists of fibres which take an irregular course over the an- terior aspect of the joint. The posterior part of the capsule is weaker than the an- terior and its attach- ment to the posterior surface of the humerus is comparatively loose. Ligamentum Col- laterale Radiale (O.T. External Lateral Ligament).—This is a strong but short ligamentous band which is attached above to the distal aspect of the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. Below, it is fixed to the annular ligament of the radius, and also, more posteriorly, to the lateral side of the olecranon of the ulna. The annular ligament is a strong ligamentous collar which surrounds the head of the radius, and retains it in the incisura radialis of the ulna. Ligamentum Collaterale Ulnare (O.T. Internal Lateral Ligament).—The ulnar collateral ligament, taken as a whole, is fan-shaped. By its proximal pointed part it is attached to the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Distally it spreads out to find insertion into the coronoid process and olecranon. It consists of three very distinct portions, viz. an anterior, a posterior, and a transverse. The anterior part springs from the distal and anterior part of the medial epicondyle, and is attached to the medial margin of the coronoid process of the ulna. The posterior part is Biceps brachii' Brachialis' Median basilic vein Brachial artery Flexor carpi ulnaris Fig. 58.—Vertical section through Humerus and Ulna at the Elbow-joint.THE UPPER EXTREMITY 15° attached above to the distal and dorsal part of the medial epi- condyle, whilst distally it is fixed to the medial border of the olecranon. The tratisverse part consists of a band of fibres, which bridges across the notch between the olecranon and coronoid process, to both of which it is attached. The lig. annulare and the chorda obliqua will be described later (see pp. 155-157)- Stratum Synoviale (Synovial Membrane).—The joint should be opened by making a transverse incision through the Interosseous membrane Medial epi- condyle Anterior part of ulnar collateral ligament Posterior part of ulnar collateral ligament Olecranon Ulna Transverse part of ulnar collateral ligament Radius Coronoid Fig. 59.—Medial aspect of Elbow-joint. anterior part of the capsule. The stratum synoviale will be seen lining the deep surface of the capsule, from, which it is reflected upon the non-articular parts of the bones which are enclosed within the capsule. Anterior to the humerus it lines the radial and coronoid fossae, and posteriorly it is prolonged proximally in the form of a loose diverticulum into the olecranon fossa. In these fossae a quantity of soft oily fat is developed between the bone and the stratum synoviale. In this way pliable pads are formed which occupy the recesses when the bony processes are withdrawn from them. Distally the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint isARTICULATIONS prolonged into the proximal radio-ulnar joint, so that both articulations possess a single continuous synovial cavity. Movements at the Elbow-joint.—The movements at the elbow-joint must not be confounded with those that take place at the proximal radio- ulnar joint. At the elbow-joint two movements, viz. flexion, or forward movement of the forearm, and extension, or backward movement of tlie forearm, are permitted. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in flexing the forearm upon the arm at the elbow-joint are the biceps, the brachialis, the muscles attached to the medial epicondyle, and the brachio-radialis. The muscles which extend the forearm at this articulation are the triceps and anconreus and the muscles which spring from the lateral epicondyle. Dissection.—It is advisable to study the radio-carpal, or wrist-joint, before the articulations between the two bones of the forearm are examined. The transverse volar and dorsal carpal ligaments, together with the extensor and flexor tendons, should be completely removed from the'wrist. No attempt, however, should be made to detach the extensor tendons from the dorsal aspects of the fingers and thumb. The short muscles of the thenar and hypothenar eminences must also be taken away. IJg. collaterale radiale LIg. annulare Anterior ligament Radius- Fig. 6o.—Anterior aspect of the Elbow-joint.152 THE UPPER EXTREMITY Articulatio Radio-carpea (Wrist-Joint). The radio-carpal or wrist-joint is the joint between the forearm and the hand. The proximal face of the joint is formed by the distal articular surface of the radius and the discus articularis, and the distal surface by the navicular, lunate, and triquetral bones, and the interosseous ligaments which connect them together. The opposed surfaces are retained in apposition by a capsular ligatnent in which at least four thickened bands can be recognised, they are :■— 1. Lig. radiocarpeum volare. I 3. Lig. collaterale radiale. 2. Lig. radiocarpeum dorsale. | 4. Lig. collaterale ulnare. The capsule is attached proximally to the borders of the distal ends of the radius and the ulna, and to the borders of the discus articularis. Distally it is connected with the bones of the proximal row of the carpus, with the exception of the pisiform, and some of its fibres can be traced to the os capitatum. The volar radio-carpal ligament springs from the anterior border of the styloid process of the radius and the adjacent part of the anterior border of the distal end of the radius. Distally it breaks up into flat bands which are attached to the navicular, lunate, and capitate bones. In many cases a volar ulnaj'-carpal ligament is also found. When present it extends from the anterior aspect of the base of the styloid process and the adjacent anterior part of the head of the ulna to the triquetral, pisiform, and capitate bones. The dorsal radio-carpal band springs from the posterior border of the distal end of the radius, and is attached distally to all the bones of the proximal row of the carpus, except the pisiform. Its fibres are often separable into a number of distinct bands. The radial collateral carpal ligament passes from the tip of the styloid process of the radius to the lateral part of the navicular, and the tilnar collateral carpal ligament connects the styloid process of the ulna with the triquetral bone. Articular Surfaces.—Divide the anterior and lateral parts of the capsule by a transverse incision carried across the front of the articulation. The hand can now be bent backwards, so as to expose fully the articular surfaces opposed to each other in this joint. 'rhe carpal surface is composed of the proximal articularARTICULATIONS 153 facets of the os naviculare and os lunatum, and a very small articular facet on the extreme lateral part of the proximal surface of the os triquetrum. Two interosseous ligaments stretch across the narrow intervals between these bones— one on either side of the os lunatum—and complete the carpal surface. Formed of these factors the carpal surface is convex in all directions. Further, it should be observed that the articular surface extends distally to a greater extent dorsally than on the volar aspect. The proxwial surface or socket (Fig. 61) is elongated from side to side, and concave in all directions. The greater part of it is formed by the distal end of the radius, but to the medial side of this by the discus articularis of the distal radio- Head of ulna Kiu. 61.—Carpal Articular Surfaces of the Radius and of the Discus .Articularis of the Wrist. ulnar joint likewise enters into its construction. The distal articular surface of the radius is divided by a low ridge into a lateral triangular and a medial quadrilateral facet. The lateral facet, in the ordinary position of the hand, is in contact with the greater extent of the proximal articular surface of the os naviculare. The medial facet of the radius, together with the discus articularis, forms a much larger surface, triangular in outline, which is opposed to the proximal articular surface of the os lunatum. When the hand is placed in line with the forearm no part of the proximal articular surface is allotted to the os triquetrum ; its small articular facet rests against the medial part of the capsule of the joint. When the hand is moved medially {i.e. adducted), however, the os triquetrum travels laterally, and its articular surface comes into contact with the distal154 THE UPPER EXTREMITY surface of the discus articularis. The os lunatum at the same time crosses the bounding ridge on the distal surface of the radius, and encroaches on the territory of the os naviculare, whilst a considerable part of the surface of the os naviculare leaves the radius and comes into contact with the lateral part of the capsule. Synovial Membrane.—-The synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint lines the capsule and it covers the proximal surfaces of the two interosseous ligaments which complete the carpal surface. Sometimes the discus articularis is imperfect, and in these cases the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal joint becomes continuous with the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. Movements at the Eadio-carpal Joint.—The hand can be moved in four directions at the radio-carpal joint. Thus we have—{a) volar movement, or flexion; {b) dorsal movement, or extension ; [c) ulnar movement, or adduction; {d) radial movement, or abduction. In estimating the extent of these movements in the living person the student is apt to be misled by the increase of range which is contributed by the carpal joints. Thus, flexion is in reality more limited than extension, although by the combined action of both carpal and radio-carpal joints the hand can be carried much more freely volarwards than dorsally. Adduction, or ulnar flexion, can be produced to a greater extent than abduction, or radial flexion. In both cases the extent of movement at the radio-carpal joint proper is very slight, but the range is extended by movements of the carpal bones. The styloid process of the radius interferes with abduction. The mtiscles which are chiefly concerned in producing these- different movements of the hand at this joint are the following :—(a) flexors—the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor carpi ulnaris ; {b) extensors—^extensor carpi radialis longus, the extensor carpi radialis brevis, and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; (r) abductors, or 7-adial flexors — flexor carpi radialis, extensor carpi radialis longus, abductor pollicis longus, and the extensor pollicis brevis; {d) adductors, or ulnar flexors— extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor carpi ulnaris. Articulationes Radio-ulnares (Radio-Ulnar Joints). At the two radio-ulnar joints, proximal and distal, the movements of pronation and supination take place. At the proximal joitit the medial part of the head of the radius fits into the incisura radialis of the ulna; at the distal the small capitulum ulnae is received into the incisura ulnaris on the medial side of the distal end of the radius. In connection with these joints there are special ligaments which retain the bones in apposition. These are—(i) for the proximal radio-ulnar joint, the annular ligament; and• ARTICULATIONS 155 ( (2) for the distal radio-ulnar joint, {a) a capsule^ and (b) the 't discus articularis. j In addition there are other ligaments which pass between ^ ) the bodies of the two bones of the forearm, and are therefore r common to the two articulations, viz. the oblique cord and ^ the interosseous tnembrane. w To expose these ligaments the volar and dorsal muscles of the forearm must be completely removed. Ligamentum Annulare Radii (O.T. Orbicular Ligament). —This is a strong ligamentous collar which encircles the Olecranon Incisura radialis Transverse portion of lig. collaterale ulnare Incisura semilunaris Lig. annulare Processus coronoicleus Fig. 62.—Annular Ligament of the Radius. capitulum radii and retains it in the incisura radialis of the ulna. It forms four-fifths of a circle, and is attached by its extremities to the volar and dorsal margins of the incisura radialis. It is somewhat narrower distally than proximally, so that, under ordinary circumstances, the head of the radius cannot be withdrawn from it in a distal direction, and it is braced tightly upwards towards the elbow, and greatly strengthened by the anterior and posterior portions of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and by the radial collateral liga- ment which are incorporated with it along its proximal border. Its distal border is loosely attached to the neck of the radius by a prolongation of the stratum synoviale, which is covered externally by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. The Capsule of the Inferior Radio-ulnar Joint.—ThisTHE UPPER EXTREMITY 156 capsule consists of lax fibres which can have little influence in retaining the distal extremities of the bones in apposition. The capsule is attached to the anterior and posterior surfaces of both bones of the forearm, to the lower parts of the inter- osseous crests and to the anterior and posterior borders of the discus articularis. A diverticulum of the capsule which is prolonged from the joint area for some distance proximally, between the bones of the forearm, is called the recessus sacciformis. Discus Articularis (O.T. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage).— The discus articularis is the true bond of union at the inferior radio-ulnar joint. It has already been noticed in connection with the radio-carpal joint, where it extends the radial articular surface in a medial direction, and is interposed between the lower end of the ulna and the os lunatum. It is a thick, firm plate, attached by its base to the distal margin of the incisura ulnaris of the radius. The apex of the cartilage is directed medially, and is fixed to the depression on the distal end of the ulna at the root of the styloid process. It intervenes between the inferior radio-ulnar joint and the radio-carpal joint. Stratum Synoviale (Synovial Membrane).—The synovial membrane of the proximal radio-ulnar joint is continuous with that of the elbow-joint. It is prolonged distally so as to line the lig. annulare, and it protrudes beyond this for a short distance upon the neck of the radius. The cavity of the inferior radio-ulnar joint and the synovial membrane are prolonged between the head of the ulna and the discus articularis. Sometimes the discus articularis is perforated ; when this is the case, the inferior radio-ulnar joint-cavity communicates with the cavity of the radio-carpal joint. Membrana Interossea Antibrachii (O.T. Interosseous Mem- brane).—This is a fibrous membrane which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the forearm, and is attached to the crista interossea of each. Its proximal border is situated about an inch distal to the tubercle of the radius. Distally it blends with the capsule of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. The fibres which compose it run for the most part obliquely distally and medially from the radius to the ulna, although several slips may be noticed taking an opposite direction. The dorsal interosseous vessels pass dorsally.ARTICULATIONS 157 above its proximal margin, between the two bones of the forearm, whilst the terminal branch of the volar interosseous artery pierces it about two inches above its distal end. This ligament braces the two bones together in such a manner that forces, passing proximally through the radius, are trans- mitted from the radius to the ulna, and it extends the surface of origin for the muscles of the forearm. By its volar surface it gives origin to the flexor digitorum profundus and the flexor pollicis longus muscles, whilst from its dorsal surface springs fibres of the two extensor muscles of the thumb, the abductor pollicis longus, and the extensor indicis proprius. Chorda Obliqua (O.T. Oblique Ligament).—This is a weak band of fibres which springs from the tuberosity of the ulna, and extends obliquely distally and laterally to find an attach- ment to the radius immediately distal to its tuberosity. It crosses the open space between the bones of the forearm above the proximal border of the interosseous membrane. The chorda obliqua is often absent, and unless the utmost care be taken in removing the adjacent muscles it is apt to be injured. Movements at the Radio-ulnar Joints.—At these articulations the movements of pronation and supination take place. When the limb is in a condition of complete supination the palm of the hand is directed anteriorly, the thumb laterally, and the two bones of the forearm are parallel, the radius lying along the lateral side of the ulna. In the movement of pronation the radius is thrown across the ulna, so that its distal end comes to lie across the volar surface and on the medial side of the ulna. Further, the hand follows the radius in this movement, and the dorsal aspects of both are directed forwards, and the thumb is turned medially. The dissector should analyse, as far as possible in the part upon which he is engaged, the movements at the two radio-ulnar joints which produce these effects. At the same time it should be remembered that results obtained from a limb, in which the dissection has proceeded so far, are apt to be deceptive. In the case of the proximal radio-ulnar joint the movement is simple enough. The head of the radius merely rotates within the annular ligament, and accuracy of motion is obtained by the fovea capituli radii resting and moving upon the rounded capitellum of the humerus. But it should be noticed that the head of the radius does not fit accurately upon the capitellum in all positions of the elbow-joint. In extreme extension and extreme flexion of the elbow it is only partially in contact with it. Therefore the semi-flexed condition of the elbow-joint places the radius in the most favourable position for free and precise movement at the proximal radio-ulnar joint. At the distal radio-ulnar joint the distal end of the radius revolves around the distal end of the ulna. It carries the hand with it, and describes the arc of a circle, the centre of which corresponds to the attachment of the158 THE UPPER EXTREMITY discus articularis to the distal end of the ulna. In this movement the discus articularis moves with the radius, and travels dorsally on the distal end of the ulna in supination, and towards the volar surface in pronation. But the question may be asked, does the ulna move during pronation and supination ? When the elbow-joint is extended to its fullest extent the ulna remains almost immovable. When, however, pronation and supination are conducted in the semi-flexed limb, the ulna does move. A small degree of lateral movement at the elbow-joint is allowed, and the distal end of the ulna during pronation is carried slightly dorsally and laterally, and in the reverse direction during supination. The tnuscles which are chiefly concerned in producing supinalion of the forearm are—the biceps brachii, the brachio-radialis, and the supinator. The biceps brachii, from its insertion into the dorsal part of the tuberosity of the radius, is placed in a very favourable position, in so far as its supinat- ing action is concerned. The muscles which act as pj-onators of the limb are —the pronator teres, the pronator quadratus, and, to a certain extent, the flexor carpi radialis. The pronator teres, from its insertion into the point of maximum lateral curvature of radius, can exercise its pronating action to great advantage. The balance of power is in favour of the supinators, and this is due to the preponderating influence of the biceps. Dissection.—The annular ligament should be cut through, and the oblique cord and the membrana interossea should be divided proximo- distal ly. By drawing the radius laterally and opening the capsule of the distal radio-ulnar joint, the proximal surface of the discus articularis of the wrist will be displayed and its attachments more fully appreciated. Articulationes Carpea; (Carpal Joints). In the carpus two joints are recognised— 1. Articulatio ossis pisiformis. 2. Articulatio intercarpea. Pisiform Joint.—The pisiform bone articulates with the volar surface of the os triquetrum to which it is attached by a capsular ligament. The cavity of the pisiform joint is quite distinct from those of the adjacent joints. The dissector has previously noted that the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is inserted into the pisiform bone, and as the capsular ligament would be quite incapable by itself of withstanding the strain to which this muscle subjects the articulation, certain accessory bands are provided w’hich anchor the pisiform firmly in place—they are the piso-hamate and the piso metacarpal bands. The former passes from the distal end of the pisiform to the hook of the os hamatum, and the latter attaches the pisiform to the proximal ends of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones.159 AR'riCULATIONS Articulatio Intercarpea (Intercarpal Joint). The intercarpal joint has one joint cavity, but it includes not only the articulations between the proximal and distal rows of carpal bones which form the transverse part of the joint but also the articulations between the bones of the proximal row and those between the bones of the distal row. The main part of the cavity of the joint lies between the bones of the proximal and distal rows; but two prolongations pass proximally, one between the os lunatum and the os naviculare, Recessus sacciformis Discus articularis Os lunatum tritjuelrum liamatiim Os naviculare maiius Os capitatum Os mult- angulum minus Os maliangu- lum majus Fig. 63.—Coronal section through Kadio-carpal, Carpal, and Carpo- metacarpal and Inter-metacarpal Joints to show Joint Cavities and Interosseous Ligaments (diagrammatic). and the other between the os lunatum and the os triquetrum, and three diverticula are prolonged between the bones of the distal row, beyond which they become continuous with the cavity of the carpo-metacarpal joint. The bones of the proximal row are connected together by two dorsal, two volar, and two interosseous ligaments, which pass from the os lunatum to the os naviculare and os tri- quetrum, which lie to either side of it. The two interosseous ligaments are composed of short, stout fibres which pass between the non-articular portions of the opposed surfaces of the bones. They are readily seen from the proximal aspect,i6o THE UPPER EXTREMITY where they complete the distal surface of the radio-carpal joint. The members of the distal row of carpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, three volar, and three inter- osseous ligaments which pass transversely between the adjacent bones. The interosseous ligament between the os capitatum and the os hamatum is very strong; that between the os capitatum and the os multangulum minus is weak and not uncommonly absent. At present the interosseous ligaments between the bones of the distal row are hidden from view, but they can be studied when the transverse part of the intercarpal joint is opened. The transverse part of the intercarpal joint lies between the proximal arid distal rows of carpal bones. The two rows of bones are bound together by a capsular ligament which is attached to the volar and dorsal surfaces and the medial and lateral borders of each row. The lateral and medial parts of the capsule are sometimes spoken of as the lateral and medial ligaments of the transverse carpal joint. The volar and dorsal parts of the capsule are strengthened by numerous bands of fibres. The bands on the dorsal surface are irregular in number and strength, but those on the volar surface are better marked and, for the most part, they radiate from the os capitatum to the surrounding bones forming the ligamentum carpi radiahtm. One of the bands of this ligament passes from the os capitatum to the styloid process of the radius and blends with the radial collateral ligament of the radio-carpal joint. Articular Surfaces.—The individual bones of the upper row and the individual bones of the lower row articulate with each other by flat surfaces. In the transverse part of the intercarpal articulation the proximal parts of the os capitatum and the os hamatum form a high convexity which fits into a concavity formed by the distal surfaces of the os triquetrum and os lunatum and the distal part of the medial surface of the naviculare of the proximal rows; and the convex distal surface of the os naviculare is received into a concavity formed by the proximal surfaces of the greater and lesser multangular bones. The two opposed surfaces of the trans- verse part of the joint are, therefore, concavo-convex from side to side, and adapted one to the other.i6 I ARTICULATIONS Movements at the Carpal Joints.—The movements at the carpal joints supplement those at the radio-carpal joint, and tend greatly to increase the range of movement at the wrist. Between the individual bones of each row the movement is of a gliding character, and very limited. At the trans- verse intercarpal joint volar and dorsal movements (flexion and extension) are alone allowed. By the multiplicity of joints in this part of the limb, strength and elasticity is contributed to the wrist. Dissection.—The interosseous muscles should now be removed from the metacarpal bones. At the same time the flexor tendons and lumbrical muscles may be detached from the fingers. The extensor tendons, how- ever, should be left in position on the dorsal surfaces of the metacarpo- phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. The ligaments which connect the carpus and metacarpus, and those which pass between the bases of the four medial metacarpal bones, should be cleaned and defined. Articulationes InTERMETACARPEAl (Intermetacarpal Joints). The four metacarpal bones of the fingers articulate with each other by their basal or proximal extremities, and are united together by strong ligaments. The metacarpal bone of the thumb stands aloof from its neighbours, and enjoys a much greater freedom of movement. The ligaments which bind the four medial metacarpal bones to each other are— 1. A series of volar and dorsal bands which pass trans- versely and connect their basal extremities. 2. Three stout interosseous ligaments., which occupy the intervals between the basal ends of the bones. 3. The transverse ligatnents of the heads, which connect the heads or distal extremities of the bones (p. 146). This liga- ment has been removed in the dissection of the interosseous muscles. The interosseous ligaments cannot be seen at present, but can be studied later on by separating the bases of the metacarpal bones from each other. Articulationes Carpometacarpea!; (Carpo-metacarpal Joints). The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the os multangulum majus by a joint which is quite distinct from the other carpo-metacarpal articulations. A capsular ligament surrounds the joint, and is sufficiently lax to allow a very con-THE UPPER EXTREMITY 162 siderable range of movement. On the dorsal and lateral aspects of the articulation it is specially thickened. Its cavity is distinct from that of the adjacent articulations. The four tnedial metacarpal bones are connected to the carpus by volar and dorsal ligaments, and by one interosseous ligament. Each of these metacarpal bones, with the exception of the fifth, possesses, as a rule, two dorsal ligaments and one volar ligament. The articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone is also closed on the medial side by ligamentous fibres. The interosseous ligament springs from the contiguous distal margins of the os capitatum and os hamatum, and passes to the medial side of the base of the third metacarpal bone. Dissection.—To display this ligament, divide the bands which connect the bases of the third and fourth metacarpal bones, and sever the dorsal ligaments which bind the two medial metacarpal bones to the carpus. The metacarpal bones thus set free can then be forcibly bent volarwards, when the ligament in question will come into view. Synovial Membranes of the Carpal, Carpo-metacarpal, and Intermetacarpal Joints.—The articulations between the os pisiform and the os triquetrum as well as the carpo- metacarpal joint of the thumb both possess separate capsules, but the various ligaments of the intercarpal, carpo-metacarpal, and proximal intermetacarpal joints, though they are spoken of individually as separate ligaments, constitute collectively a single capsule, which surrounds a continuous joint cavity. The synovial membrane of the capsule is prolonged over all parts of the bones, enclosed within the capsule, which are not covered by articular cartilage, and it is continued proximally between the three bones of the proximal row of the carpus as far as the interosseous ligaments which connect the bones together. It covers the distal surfaces of these ligaments and is excluded by them from the radio-carpal joint. It passes also between the four bones of the distal row of the carpus and covers the inner surfaces of the ligaments of the carpo-metacarpal joints and the ligaments of the four medial intermetacarpal articulations. In some cases the interosseous ligament which connects the base of the third metacarpal to the os capitatum and os hamatum shuts off the articulation of the os hamatum with the two medial metacarpal bones, and converts the articulation of the os hamatum with the two medial metacarpal bones into a separate segment of the carpo-metacarpal joint.AR'I'ICULATIONS 163 I—11 ft Dissection.—To display the articular surfaces of the carpo-metacarpal articulations, the metacarpus should be detached from the carpus. The interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones of the second row, and also between the bases of the four medial metacarpal bones, can likewise be demonstrated by carrying the knife between the bones, and dividing the ligaments. Articular Surfaces.—The base of the metacarpal bone of the index will be seen to be hollowed out for the reception of the os multangulum minus. On the lateral side it likewise articulates with the os multangulum majus, and on the medial side with the os capitatum. The base of the third metacarpal rests against the os capitatum alone. The base of the meta- carpal bone of the ring finger rests upon the os hamatum, but also articulates slightly with the os capitatum. The fifth metacarpal bone articulates with the os hamatum. Movements of the Metacarpal Bones.—The opposed saddle-shaped surfaces of the os multangulum majus and the metacarpal bone of the thumb allow free movement at this joint. Thus the metacarpal bone of the thumb can be moved—(i) dorso-laterally (extension); (2) volarwards and medially (flexion); (3) medially towards the index (adduction) ; (4) laterally (abduc- tion) ; (5) medially across the palm towards the little finger (opposition) ; (6) a combination of the above-mentioned movements occurring one after the other constitutes circumduction. The muscles which operate on the thumb are—(i) the two special extensors, brevis and longus, and the abductor pollicis longus producing extension ; (2) the flexor pollicis brevis, the oppHDnens pollicis, and the adductor pollicis producing flexion and opposition, two movements which are similar in character ; (3) the abductor pollicis longus and the abductor pollicis brevis producing abduction; (4) the adductor pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous muscle which give rise to adduction. The metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers possess very little power of independent movement. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and more especially the metacarpal bone of the little finger, are not so tightly bound to the carpus. When the hand is clenched they both move volarwards. The metacarpal bone of the little finger is provided with an opponens muscle, and has a feeble power of moving volarwards 1 and laterally towards the thumb. Articulationes Metacarpophalangeal (Metacarpo- phalangeal Joints). The slightly cupped base of the first phalanx of each digit articulates with the rounded head of the corresponding ! metacarpal bone, and is held in position by (i) a capsule; I (2) two ligg. collateralia, and (3) by a lig. accessoriuni volarc. Lig. Accessorium Volare (O.T. Anterior Ligament).- 'The volar accessory ligatnent is a dense fibrous plate placed on the volar aspect of the joint. It is firmly attached to the base164 THE UPPER EXTREMITY of the phalanx, but only slightly connected with the meta- carpal bone. Occupying the interval between the two col- lateral ligaments it is united to both by its margins, so that the three ligaments are more or less directly continuous. The volar accessory ligament also exhibits a close connection with the transverse ligament of the heads of the metacarpal bones which stretches transversely across the heads of the metacarpal bones, and its volar surface is grooved for the flexor tendons as they proceed distally over the joint. Further, the fibrous sheath, which bridges over the tendons, is fixed to its borders. Ligg. Collateralia (O.T. Lateral Ligaments).—The col- lateral ligavients are placed one on either side of the joint. Each is a strong, thick, and short band, which is attached, on the one hand, to the tubercle and depression on the corresponding side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and on the other to the base of the phalanx and the border of the volar ligament. Dissection.—The extensor tendon should now be raised from the dorsal aspect of the joint. By this proceeding the joint is opened, and a demonstration is afforded of the fact that the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are only represented dorsally by the stratum synoviale. Stratum Synoviale (Synovial Membrane). — A synovial tnembrane lines the deep surfaces of the capsula articularis in each joint, and also the deep surface of the extensor tendon, as it passes over the articulation. The tendon there- fore takes the place of the stratum fibrosum of the capsule. Movements at the Metacarpo-phalangeal Joints.—The movements of the first phalanx at these joints are—[a) flexion, or volar movement; (b) extension, or dorsal movement ; (r) abduction ; and {d) addiution. During flexion of the fingers the first phalanx travels volarwards with the thick accessory volar ligament upon the head of the metacarpal bone. The interosseous and lumbrical muscles are chiefly instrumental in producing this movement. The first phalanges of the fingers in the movement of extension can only be carried dorsally to a very slight degree beyond the line of the metacarpal bones. The extensor communis and the special extensors of the index and little flnger are the muscles which operate in this case. Abduction and adduction are movements of the first phalanx away from and towards a line prolonged distally through the middle finger, and are seen when the fingers are spread out and again drawn together. The abductor digiti quinti and the dorsal interosseous muscles act as abductors of the fingers at these joints, whilst the volar interosseous muscles operate as adductors of the little, ring, and index fingers. In the case of the middle digit, the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles act alternately as abductors and as adductors. In connection with the165 ARTICULATIONS I—11 b movements of abduction and adduction, it should be noticed that in the extended position of the fingers they are very free ; but if flexion be induced, the power of separating the fingers becomes more and more restricted, until it becomes absolutely lost when the hand is closed. An examination of the collateral ligaments will afford the explanation of this. These “ are attached so far dorsally on the metacarpal bones, as to be much nearer to their distal ends than to their volar aspects ” (Cleland). Consequently, while they are comparatively lax in the extended position of the fingers, the further flexion advances the tighter they become, and in this way they interfere with the lateral movements of the first phalanges. The first phalanx of the thumb has only a limited range of movement at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Articul.\tiones Digitorum (Joints of the Fingers). The ligaments connecting the phalanges are arranged upon a plan identical with that already described in connection with the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. This should not be made an excuse, however, to slur them over. Movements.—From the manner in which the articular surfaces are adapted to each other, flexion and extension are the only movements which can take place at the interphalangeal joints. Flexion of the second phalanges of the fingers is brought about by the flexor sublimis, and of the ungual phalanges by the flexor profundus. Extension of the phalanges at the interphalangeal joints is largely produced by the interosseous and lumbrical muscles acting through the extensor tendons, into which they are inserted. These muscles, therefore, whilst they flex the first phalanx at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, extend the second and ungual phalanges at the interphalangeal joints. In the case of the thumb, the long flexor and the extensor pollicis longus operate at the interphalangeal joint.INFERIOR EXTREMITY i66 INFERIOR EXTREMITY. THE THIGH. On the morning of the fourth day after the subject has been brought into the dissecting room it is placed upon the table lying upon its back, the pelvis is supported by two blocks, and the inferior extremities are stretched out at full length. In this position it is allowed to remain for five days and during that period the dissector of the inferior extremity has a very extensive dissection to perform. He has to dissect (r) the anterior region of the thigh, including the irigomim femorale and its contents, (2) the medial region of the thigh, in- cluding the adductor canal and its contents. With so much work to be completed, within a limited time, he must appor- tion the five days to the best advantage. During the first day he should dissect the superficial structures of the whole of the anterior and medial aspects of the thigh. During the second and third days he should complete the dissection of the femoral triangle and the anterior region of the thigh, and the remainder of the period should be devoted to the dissec- tion of the medial region. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected the surface markings of the anterior, the lateral, and medial region of the thigh must be examined. A faint sulcus at the superior extremity of the a?iterior region is the boundary line between the inguinal region of the abdomen and the subinguinal region of the thigh. The resistance felt deep to the sulcus is due to the ligamentum inguinale (O.T. Pouparfs Ligament) which is attached, at the lateral and superior end of the sulcus, to the a?iterior superior iliac spine, and its inferior and medial end to the tubercle of the pubis. From the anterior superior iliac spine the C7‘ista iliaca can be traced laterally and dorsally, and from the pubic tubercle the finger should be carried medially, along the pubic crest, to the superior end of the sy?nphysis pubis. Next the finger should be passed downwards, along the front of the symphysis pubis, to the superior margin of the arcus pubis and thence downwards and dorsally,' along the rami of the pubis and ischium, which mark the superior boundary of the medial femoral region, to the tuber16 7 ischiadic urn. THE THIGH part About four inches below the highest Junction of manubrium body of sternum Medial malleolus Lateral malleolus .•ledial condyle of femur Lateral condyle of femur Patella 7'ibia Head of fibula Lateral malleolus of radius Symphysis of pubis Lower end of radius N Lower end of body of sternum Lateral epicondyle Medial epicondyle Ant. sup. spine of ilium Great trochanter Styloid process of radius Styloid process of ulna Sternal end of clavicle Acromial end of clavicle Head of humerus - IMG. 64.—Anterior Surface of Body. of the iliac crest, and on the plane of the i)ubic ridee is res^^trochanlerica, indicated by an eminence due to thei68 INFERIOR EXTREMITY prominence of the trochanter major of the femur. Above the trochanteric region, and between it and the crista iliaca, is the regio coxce (hip), and below the trochanteric region is the regio femoris lateralis. At the distal end of the anterior part of the thigh is the regio genu anterior. In the centre of the anterior part of the knee lies the patella or knee-cap, the outline of which can be seen as well as felt. When the limb is extended' the extensor muscles in the anterior part of the thigh are relaxed and the patella is freely movable. As the legxs, fle.xed on the fetnur at the knee the patella passes distally, till it lies in front of the interval between the femur and the tibia, and the facies patellaris of the femur can be felt beneath the skin. From the distal end of the patella the lig. patellre should be followed to the tuberosity of the tibia. At the distal end of the lateral region of the thigh the outline of the lateral condyle of the femur is easily recognised. Directly below it is tl\e lateral condyle of the tibia, and at the distal and posterior part of the latter the head of the fibula. The tendon which can be traced proximally from the capitulum fibulte, on the border line between the lateral and posterior femoral regions, is the tendon of the biceps femoris, and the dense longitudinal band of fascia immediately anterior to the tendon of the biceps is the tractus ilio-tibialis of the fascia lata —a fascial band which is more easily distinguishable in the living than in the dead body. At the distal end of the medial part of the thigh is the outline of the medial condyle of the femur which should be palpated, and immediately distal to it the medial condyle of the tibia is easily recognised beneath the integument. The tendons posterior to the medial condyle of the femur, which also are more easily felt in the living than the dead body, are the tendons of the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles, and the less easily palpated tendon of the adductor magnus should be distinguished as it descends to the superior border of the medial femoral condyle. The dissector should verify all the above-mentioned points of surface anatomy not only on the dead body but also on the bodies of himself and his friends, and he should e.xamine them repeatedly until he is cpiite familiar with them both by sight and touch.Superficial Dissection. 'I'his dissection comprises the examination of the following parts:— 1. Superficial fascia. ' 2. Vena saphena niagna and its tributaries. 3. Art. Pudenda externa superficialis. 4. Art. Epigastrica superficialis. 5. Art. Circumflexa ilium superficialis. 6. Lymph glands and vessels. 7. The fossa ovalis. S. Cutaneous nerves. 9. The fascia femoris. 10. The bursm patellK. Reflection of the Skin.—huisions.—(i) From the anterior superior iliac spine along the line of the inguinal ligament to the symphysis pubis ; (2) from the medial extremity of the first incision distally along the margin of the scrotum, then along the junction of the medial with the posterior aspect of the thigh and across the medial aspect of the knee to the level of the tuberosity of the tibia ; {3) from the distal end of the vertical incision transversely across the anterior surface of the leg to its lateral border. The quadrilateral flap of integument thus mapped out must be raised carefully from the subjacent superficial fascia and turned laterally, particular care being taken in the region of the knee to avoid injury to the patellar plexus of cutaneous nerves. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The fatty super- ficial fascia which is now exposed is continuous with the corresponding layer on the front of the abdomen, and it is regarded by some anatomists as being composed of two layers. This subdivision is needless and artificial. In the lower part of the abdominal wall, above the inguinal liga- ment, it is true the superficial fascia presents two distinct strata—one a fatty layer continuous, over the inguinal liga- ment, with the superficial fascia of the anterior part of the thigh, and sometimes termed the fascia of Cainper-, the other, a deeper layer, firm and membranous and devoid of fat, called the fascia of Scarpa. As this latter fascial stratum is attached to the fascia femoris (deep fascia of the thigh) immediately below the inguinal ligament, it is necessary that it should receive some attention. To demonstrate the fascia of Scarpa the dissectors of the lower extremity and abdomen should work in conjunction with each other. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thickness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the medial line of the body. On raising the lower edge ofINFERIOR EXTREMITY I 70 the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the pearly-looking tendon of the external oblique muscle. Little resistance will be encountered, as it is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. The fingers can be readily carried down- wards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as the inguinal liga- ment. Here it will be found that they can force their way no farther. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blending of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata, along an oblique line immediately below the inguinal ligament. At this level, therefore, it ceases to exist. The fatty super- ficial layer of Camper, however, as we have said, is continued onwards as the superficial fascia of the thigh. When urine is effused under the superficial fascia of the anterior abdominal wall, the attachment of the fascia of Scarpa to the fascia lata prevents its passage downwards in front of the thigh. Dissection. — In the superficial fascia, blood-vessels, glands, lymph vessels, and nerves are embedded, and these must now be dissected out. First look for the great saphenous vein. It will be found running proxi- mally from the posterior border of the medial condyle of the femur to a point about one and a half inches distal and lateral to the pubic tubercle, where it passes through the fossa ovalis into the femoral triangle to join the femoral vein. It is not desirable to define the opening in the fascia femoris through which it passes until a later stage of the dissection. Several tributaries join the great saphenous vein at this point, and these should be dissected along with the small superficial arteries of the groin which accompany them. The large lymph glands of the groin must also be dissected out from the fatty tissue in which they lie. In doing this care must be taken to preserve as many as possible of the minute thread-like lymph vessels which enter and leave the glands. A small artery and vein should also be traced to each gland. Superficial Inguinal Vessels, — Three minute arteries, termed the superficial epigastric, the superficial external pudendal and the superficial circumflex iliac, pierce the fascia femoris below the inguinal ligament, and radiate from each other for the supply of the lymph glands and integument of the subinguinal region. They all spring from the femoral artery immediately after it enters the thigh. Art. Pudenda externa superficialis.—The superficial external pudendal comes forward through the fascia cribrosa (a thin fascial layer, which is spread over the fossa ovalis), and runs medially, and upwards across the spermatic cord. It supplies the skin of the scrotum and penis.THE THIGH 171 Art. Epigasirica superficialis.—The superficial epigastric turns upwards and leaves the thigh by crossing the inguinal ligament about its middle. It is distributed chiefly to the skin on the front of the abdomen. Cut edge of Scarpa's fascia lat. ant. branch Lympho- glandultE binguinale "perficiales Nervus lumboinguinalis Femoral vessels Margo falciformis, cornu superius Annulus inguinalis subcutaneus Pectineal part of fascia femoris Spermatic cord ;V. pudenda externa 1 superficialis Margo falciformis (cornu inferius) of fossa oval is V. saphena magna Anterior and posterior ( branches of the medial-! cutaneous nerve (O.T. 1. internal cutaneous) A. epigastrica superficialis A. circumflexa ilium .superficialis ymph gland Iliac portion of lata N. cutaneus femoris lateralis Fig. 65.—Superficial Dissectioit of the Proximal Part of the Anterior Region of the Thigh. The fossa ovalis (O.T. saphenous opening), the superficial lymph glands and vessels of the groin arc displayed. 'Phe lymph vessels may be recognised by their beaded appearance. Art. Circiimfiexa ilium superfiicialis.—'Fhe superficial circum- flex iliac is very minute, and courses upwards and laterally, along the inguinal ligament, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The veins which accompany these arteries converge to-INFERIOR EXTREMITY 172 wards the fossa ovalis and join the great saphenous vein before it pierces the fascia. Lymph Glands and Vessels.—The disposition of the super- ficial lymph glands into two groups will now be evident—a proximal inguinal group along the line of the inguinal ligament, immediately distal to the attachment of Scarpa’s fascia to the fascia lata, and a distal groups the superficial subinguinal glands, which extends for a short way down the thigh along the line of the great saphenous vein. In a spare subject, or, better still, in a dropsical subject, the general arrangement of the lymph vessels may also be made out. To the subinguinal group of glands proceed the vessels of the lower extremity; to the inguinal group of glands go the lymph vessels from the genitals, perineum, and the surface of the abdomen. These are termed the afferent vessels. In addition to these, numerous vessels pass between the various glands and connect them with each other. The lymph vessels which lead the lymph away from the glands are called the effej-ent vessels. A large number of these pass through the fossa ovalis, others pierce the fascia lata. They join the deep subinguinal glands and the external iliac glands which lie in relation to the femoral and external iliac arteries. Dissection.—It has already been noted that an opening in the fascia lata called the fossa ovalis (O.T. saphenous opening) is situated at the proximal and medial angle of the anterior part of the thigh. It is bounded proximally, laterally, and distally by a sharp crescentic margin, the maigo falciformis, and through it pass the great saphenous vein, on its way to join the femoral vein, and the efferent lymph vessels which connect the inguinal lymph glands and the superficial subinguinal lymph glands with the deep subinguinal lymph glands. The deep fascia on the lateral side of the fossa ovalis is called the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and that on its medial side is the fascia pectinea. It is difficult to display the opening satisfactorily but the difficulty may be overcome by the exercise of a little care. The dissector should commence by raising the proximal part of the great saphenous vein from the fatty bed in which it lies ; he should then carry the handle of his scalpel upwards behind the vein till he feels it dip backwards over a sharp free margin, the cornu inferius of the opening. This cornu is always clearly defined. It blends medially with the fascia pectinea, which lies superficial to the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. Laterally it is continued upwards into the lateral part of the margo falciformis, and the proximal end of the latter, turning medially, becomes the cornu superius which gains attachment to the distal and medial part of the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbcrnat’s ligament). The margo falci- formis and the cornu superius are not always easy to define, but if the dissector, after he has displayed the cornu inferius, will carefully remove the superficial fat from the .surface of the fascia, on the lateral side of the great sajihenous vein, he will find that at a short distance from the vein the iliac portion of the fascia lata suddenly becomes thinner. The sudden173 THE THIGH thinning indicates the position of the lateral part of the margo falciformis, which should be defined by the edge of the knife and then traced proximally and medially into the cornu superius. When the lateral part of the margo falciformis is displayed the dissector should return to the cornu inferius and trace it to its fusion with the fascia pectinea; then he should clear away the superficial fascia from the surface of the latter. As he does this he will recognise that, above the level of the cornu inferius, the fascia pectinea does not pass across the front of the femoral vessels to join the iliac portion of the deep fascia, but, on the contrary, it dips posterior to the femoral vessels to become continuous with the deep intermuscular septa. In a sense, therefore, the margo falciformis forms the medial free margin of the iliac part of the fascia lata (see Fig. 65). In reality, however, a thinner layer of fascia is continued from this margin across the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels to join the fascia pectinea. This thinner layer of fascia which closes the fossa is known as the fascia cribrosa, because it is perforated by the great saphenous vein and by the efterent vessels of the inguinal and subinguinal lymph glands on their way to join the deep subinguinal lymph glands. When the margins of the fossa ovalis have been displayed, the inguinal and subinguinal lymph glands and the fascia cribrosa should be removed, care being taken, during the removal of the latter, to avoid injury to the femoral sheath which lies subjacent to them. Fossa Ovalis (O.T. Saphenous Opening).—This is the aperture in the deep fascia through which the great saphenous vein passes to its junction with the femoral vein. A thin fascia, called the fascia cribrosa, is spread over the opening. Difference of opinion exists as to what the fascia cribrosa really is. It is regarded by some as being a part of the superficial fascia, but it is more correct to look upon it as being a thin layer of fascia lata carried over the opening, or, in other words, a prolongation medially of the lateral margin of the opening. The fossa ovalis is of special importance, because it is the opening through which femoral hernia makes its way to the surface. It is oval in shape and not more than half an inch in width; but it is at least one and a half inches long. Its medial boundary, which is formed by the receding fascia pectinea, lies on a deeper plane than the lateral boundary. The lateral boundary or margo falciformis is crescentic. It is formed by the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The cor7iu tnfenus of the falciform edge curves medially, distal to the proximal end of the great saphenous vein, to join the fascia pectinea. The cornu superius (sometimes called Hey’s liga- ment), not so well defined, sweeps medially, anterior to the proximal part of the femoral sheath, and joins the front of the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s ligament) (Fig. 65).INFERIOR EXTREMITY 174 DissecHon.—Clean the great saphenous vein proxiino-distally, taking care to avoid injuring any of the branches of the cutaneous nerves which lie close to it. In the proximal part of the thigh it is accompanied by branches of the medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneous), one of the anterior cutaneous branches of the femoral nerve. In the distal part of the thigh it is accompanied by the anterior branch of the same nerve and it passes across the medial and posterior aspect of the knee, where it is accompanied by the saphenous nerve. Clean also the tributaries of the vein and avoid injury to the cutaneous nerves which they cross. Vena Saphena Magna (O.T. Internal Saphenous Vein).— This is the largest superficial vein of the inferior extremity. It commences on the dorsum of the foot, passes proximally anterior to the medial malleolus and across the medial surface of the distal third of the tibia, and then along the medial margin of the tibia. It enters the area of dissection at present under consideration at the level of the tuberosity of the tibia, passes proximally across the posterior part of the medial aspect of the knee, then further proximally, with an inclination anteriorly and laterally, through the medial region of the thigh to the fossa ovalis, where it pierces the fascia cribrosa and the femoral sheath and terminates in the femoral vein. In its course through the thigh it receives tributaries from the anterior and medial regions, the former constitute the lateral femoral circumflex veins and the latter the medial femoral circumflex veins; one of the latter not uncommonly connects the great saphenous veins with the small saphenous vein. Just before it pierces the fascia cribrosa the great saphenous vein is joined by the small veins which correspond with the three superficial arteries of the subinguinal region. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—The cutaneous nerves are now to be looked for in the superficial fascia. The main stems are six in number, and are derived from two sources. Three come directly from the lumbar plexus^ and three are branches of the fc)uo7'al nerve :— ( Ilio-inguinalis. From lumbar plexus, -j Lumboinguinalis. ( Lateral cutaneous of the thigh. f Intermediate cutaneous. From n. femoralis, -j Medial cutaneous. ( Saphenous. N. Ilio-inguinalis.—The ilio-inguinal nenje will be found as it escapes from the subcutaneous inguinal ring (O.T. ext. abdominal) in company with the spermatic cord. Its branches175 THE THIGH go for the most part to the scrotum, but some are distributed to the skin on the proximal and medial parts of the thigh. Nervus Lumboinguinalis (O.T. Crural branch of Genito- crural) pierces the fascia lata a little way distal to the inguinal ligament, and to the lateral side of the femoral artery. With a little care a communication between this nerve and the intermediate cutaneous may be made out. It supplies a limited area of skin on the proximal part of the anterior aspect of the thigh. N. Femoris Lateralis (O.T. External Cutaneous).—The lateral aitaneoiis nerve of the thigh is distributed on the lateral area of the thigh. It pierces the fascia lata in two parts. Of these, one—the posterior division—appears about two inches distal to the anterior superior iliac spine, and proceeds dorsally and distally; some twigs of it may be followed to the lower part of the glutseal region. The anterior division comes to the surface about two inches distally. It is the larger of the two, and has a wide area of distribution. It may extend to the knee-joint. Previous to its division the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh lies in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata, which descends vertically from the anterior superior spine of the ilium. This must be split up to expose the nerve. The intermediate and medial cutaneous nerves'belong to the “rami cutanei anteriores of the n. femoralis,” but for convenience and for the purposes of more precise description, they are defined by special names. The intermediate cutaneous tierve (O.T. middle cutaneous nerve) of the thigh, a branch of the femoral nerve, pierces the fascia lata in the middle line of the thigh about three or four inches distal to the inguinal ligament. It usually appears as two branches which perforate the fascia at two points a short distance apart from each other. Both branches extend distally to the knee, which they reach on its medial aspect. The medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneous nerve) ' of the thigh, a branch of the femoral nerve, following the ' example of the n. cutaneus femoris lateralis and the inter- i mediate cutaneous nerve, divides into two portions—an I anterior and a posterior—which perforate the deep fascia r on the medial aspect of the thigh, and at some distance k apart from each other. The anterior division makes its appear- !»■ ance through the fascia lata in the distal third of the thigh, [r anterior to the great saphenous vein. It descends, towardsINFERIOR EXTREMITY 176 the knee, and its terminal branches turn anteriorly and later- ally to the anterior aspect of the patella. The pos- terior division reaches the surface on the medial side of the knee, posterior to the great saphenous vein, and proceeds distally to supply the integument on the medial side of the proximal part of the leg. But the main stem of the medial cutaneous nerve, before it divides, likewise sends a few twigs through the fascia lata to reach the skin on the proximal and medial aspect of the thigh. These make their appear- ance along the line of the great saphenous vein. N. Saphenus (O.T. Long Saphenous).—The sapiien- becomes cutaneous on the medial side of the knee by perforating the fascia between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. The guide to it is the saphenous branch N. cutaneus femoris lateralis N. ilio-ingulnalis N. luniboinguinalis Branch from medial cutaneous of the thigh Intermediate cuta- neous of the thigh" Medial cutaneous^ of the thigh V. saphena magna- Anterior part of medial cutaneous-, of the thigh Ramus infrapatellaris of n. saphenus" V. saphena magna- N. saphenus- N. peronaeus superficialis_ (O.T. musculo- cutaneous) of the a. gam supre?na, which descends alongside of it. It follows the course of the great saphenous vein into the leg. Before it pierces the fascia it gives off an infrapatellar branch. The infrapatellar branch pierces the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata on the medial side of the knee, and turns laterally towards the anterior aspect of the joint, below the level of the patella. N. peronaeus profundus (O.T. anl. tibial)“ Fig. 66.—-Cutaneous Nerves on the Front of the Lower Extremity.177 THE THIGH Four of the cutaneous nerves of the thigh have been found to send twigs to the skin over the knee-joint, viz. the anterior division of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, the inter- mediate cutaneous, the anterior division of the medial cutane- ous, and the saphenous nerve. These nerves communicate with each other and form an interlacement which is situated over the patella, the ligamentum patellae, and proximal part of the tibia. It is termed the patellar plextis. On the medial side of the thigh two minute cutaneous nerve twigs some- times make their appearance which do not belong to any of the above main cutaneous trunks. One appears below the ilio-inguinal nerve, and is a twig from the perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; the other pierces the deep fascia at the middle of the medial area of the thigh, and comes from the obturator nerve. Dissection.—.\fter the cutaneous nerves have been cleaned the remains of the superficial fascia must be removed in order that the fascia lata may be studied. Fascia Lata.—This is the name which is given to that portion of the general aponeurotic investment of the lower extremity which clothes the thigh and preserves its figure. The dissector will be struck with the marked difference in strength which it shows on the lateral and medial aspects of the thigh. Laterally it is so dense and strong that it appears to be more tendinous than aponeurotic in its character. The reason of this is that the tensor fascim latae muscle and the greater portion of the glutaeus maximus are inserted into it upon this side of the limb. The strong band thus formed goes under the name of the Iractus iliotibialis, from its being attached above to the crest of the ilium, and below to the lateral condyle of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. It acts as a powerful brace, on the lateral aspect of the limb, which, in the erect posture, helps to steady the pelvis and at the same time keep the knee-joint firmly extended. Medially, the fascia lata is so exceedingly delicate and thin that the subjacent muscular fibres shine through it, and it is very apt to be removed with the superficial fascia unless care be exercised in the dissection. Superiorly, around the root of the limb, the fascia lata is attached to the inguinal ligament and the bones of the pelvis. Posteriorly., it is continuous with the glutmal aponeurosis, and through this it is fixed to the coccyx, sacrum, and crest of the ilium. On the lateral side it is attached to the crest of the ilium; and on the medial side to the body of the pubis, the VOL. I—12178 INFERIOR EXTREMITY margin of the pubic arch, and to the tuber ischiadicum. Anteriorly^ its upper attachment is complicated by the presence of the fossa ovalis. This aperture separates the fascia lata into a lateral or iliac portion and a medial or pectineal portion, now known as the fascia pectinea. This subdivision only extends distally to the distal border of the fossa ovalis. The iliac portmi is attached along the whole length of the inguinal ligament. Its medial crescentic margin bounds the fossa ovalis laterally and forms its falciform edge. The cornu superius of this edge blends with the lig. lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s ligament), whilst its inferior cornu joins the pectineal portion of the fascia lata. The fascia pectinea clothes the proxi- mal portions of the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. It recedes from the surface as it is traced laterally, passes posterior to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and blends with the lig. pubocapsulare of the hip-joint, with the deep intermuscular septa, and with the fascia iliaca which covers the Fig. 67.—Diagram to show the arrangement of the three inter- muscular septa and the tliree ... , n-.ii j- 1 osteo-fascial compartments of iho-psoas muscle. To the medial side of the femoral vessels the the thigh. (After Turner.) a. Medial intermuscular septum. A Posterior intermuscular septum. c. Lateral intermuscular septum. fascia pectinea is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line of the pubic bone. The fascia cribrosa, as previously stated, is to be regarded as a thin piece of the fascia lata, stretched across the fossa ovalis. lyaterally, it is continuous with the falciform edge of the iliac portion of the fascia; medially, it blends with the front of the fascia pectinea. In the neighbourhood of the knee the fascia lata is con- tinuous posteriorly with the popliteal fascia, whilst on the lateral and anterior aspects of the joint it is attached to the various bony prominences and to the different tendons in this locality and it helps to strengthen and support the capsular ligament offfhe knee-joint. Septa Intemiuscularia (Intermuscular Septa). — But the fascia lata has other offices to perform besides that of forming a continuous investment for the thigh. From every part ofTHE THIGH 179 I—12 a its deep surface processes pass off which penetrate the limb and constitute sheaths for the muscles and other structures which compose it. Three of these, which are especially strong, form distinct septa or partitions which reach the femur and are attached to the linea aspera on its posterior aspect. These partitions are termed the intermuscular septa, and are so dis- posed that they intervene between the three great groups of muscles in this region. The septum intermusculare laterale is placed between the extensor muscles in the anterior area of the thigh and the hamstring muscles in the posterior region; the septum intermuscular mediale intervenes between the extensor muscles and the adductor muscles in the medial region ; whilst the septtwi mtermusculare posterius, weak and in- conspicuous in comparison with the other two, is interposed between the adductor and the hamstring muscles. These partitions will be disclosed in the subsequent dissection. In the meantime, merely observe that the medial and the lateral septa show on the surface of the fascia in the lower part of the thigh as white lines. By means of the three septa the thigh is divided into three osteo-fascial compartments, viz. an anterior, containing the extensor muscles and the femoral nerve; a posterior, holding the hamstrings and the sciatic nerve; and a medial, for the adductors with the obturator nerve (Fig. 67). Bursse Patellares (Patellar Bursae).—Several mucous bursae are situated in the patellar region, those which lie superficially may be investigated now and the more deeply placed bursae should be examined at later stages of the dissection as opportunity occurs. The bursae are—(i) The subcutaneous prepatellar bursa which lies immediately beneath the skin opposite the distal part of the patella. (2) The subfascial prepatellar bursa situated between the fascia lata superficially and the proximal part of the patella and the adjacent part of the tendon of the quadriceps deeply; this bursa may be displayed by an incision made through the fascia lata in the area indicated. (3) The subtendinous prepatellar bursa lying between the superficial fibres of the tendon of the quadriceps and the periosteum of the anterior surface of the patella. (4) The suprapatellar bursa. This lies proximal to the patella, posterior to the tendon of the quadriceps and anterior to the distal part of the anterior surface of the femur; it usually communicates with18o INFERIOR EXTREMITY the cavity of the knee-joint. (5) The subcutaneous infra- patellar bursa, placed directly beneath the skin anterior to the proximal part of the ligamentum patella. (6) The deep infi-a- patellar bursa, which is placed between the ligamentum patellfe and the anterior surface of the proximal part of the tibia. The suprapatellar bursa and the deep infrapatellar burste are practically always present, but one or more of the subcutaneous and subfascial burste may be absent. Not un- commonly a subfascial and an adjacent subcutaneous bursa may communicate through an aperture in the deep fascia. The subcutaneous bursae are often destroyed during the reflection of the skin, but the deeper bursm can usually be found, if looked for carefully, in the situations mentioned above. Deep Dissection of the Thigh In this dissection the following parts require to be examined:— 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- 10. 11. 12. 13- The femoral sheath. Nervus lumboinguinalis. Nervus cutaneus femoris lateralis. M. sartorius. Nervus femoralis and its rami. Arteria femoralis and its rami. Vena femoralis. M. ilio-psoas. M. quadriceps femoris 1 Musculus rectus femoris. Musculus vastus lateralis. Musculus vastus intermedins. Musculus vastus lateralis. M. articularis genu. M. tensor fascite latm. Deep part of the tractus ilio-tibialis fascire latm. Intermuscular septa, lateral and medial. Ligament Inguinale (O.T. Poupart’s Ligament)— Liga- mentum Lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s Ligament).—Although, properly speaking, both of these ligaments belong more to the abdominal wall than the thigh, it is essential that the dissector should obtain some knowledge of their connections before he proceeds further with the dissection. The inguinal ligament is merely the thickened lower border of the apo- neurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall folded backwards upon itself. It thus presents a rounded surface towards the thigh, and a grooved surface towards the'FHE THICzH T 8 I abdomen. By its lateral extremity it is fixed to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Medially, it has a double attach- ment, viz.—(i) to the pubic tubercle, (2) through the medium of the lig. lacunare to the medial part of the pecten pubis (O.T. ilio-pectineal line). The inguinal ligament pursues an oblique course between its iliac and pubic attachments, and at the same time describes a gentle curve, the convexity of Sheath of rectus Aponeurosis of external oblique Intercrural fibres Inguinal ligament (Poupart’s) Subcutaneous abdominal ring Lig. inguinale reflexum Lig. lacunare (Gimbernat’s) Fig. 68.—Dissection to show the connections of the Inguinal Ligament. which is turned distally. By its distal border it affords attachment to the fascia lata, and when this is divided it loses its curved direction. The ligamentum lactmare (O.T. Gimbernat’s) is a small triangular pieceof aponeuroticfasciawhich occupies the interval between the medial part of the inguinal ligament and the medial inch of the pecten pubis—being attached by its margins to both. Its base, which looks laterally, is sharp, crescentic, and free, and abuts against the femoral sheath. The lacunar ligament occupies a very oblique plane; its femoral surface 1—12 6INFERIOR EXTREMITY i82 looks distally and laterally, whilst its abdominal surface is directed upwards and medially. Dissection.—The exposure of the femoral sheath is the next step in the dissection of the thigh. To attain this object the iliac portion of the fascia lata must be partially reflected. Divide the superior horn of the lateral crescentic margin of the fossa ovalis, and then carry the knife laterally along the lower border of the inguinal ligament, so as to sever the attachment of the fascia lata to this thickened band. This incision should extend to within an inch of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The piece of fascia marked out by the incision above, and by the lateral free margin of the fossa ovalis medially, must be carefully raised from the subjacent femoral sheath and thrown distally and laterally. On the removal of a little loose fat, the femoral sheath will be brought into view as it enters the thigh under the inguinal ligament. Isolate it carefully from adjacent and surrounding parts, by carrying the handle of the knife gently round it—insinuating it first between the sheath and the inguinal ligament, then between the sheath and the lacunar ligament, which lies medial to it. Femoral Sheath.—The funnel-shaped appearance of the femoral sheath will now be apparent—the wide mouth of the membranous tube being directed upwards into the abdomen, and the narrow inferior part gradually closing upon the vessels, and fusing with their coats about the level of the distal limit of the fossa ovalis. Whilst it presents this appearance, however, it should be noticed that its sides do not slope equally towards each other. The lateral border of the sheath is nearly vertical in its direction, whilst the medial wall proceeds very obliquely distally and laterally. If the dissection has 'been successfully performed, the lumbo-inguinal tierve should be seen piercing the lateral wall of the sheath, whilst the great saphenous vein, and some lymph vessels, perforate its anterior and medial walls. Further, if the subject be spare and the fasciae well marked, the dissector will in all probability notice that the anterior wall of the sheath, in its proximal part, is strengthened by some transverse fibres which pursue an arched course across it. To these fibres the name of deep femoral arch is given, in contradistinction to the term superficial femoral arch, which is sometimes applied to the inguinal ligament. In favourable circumstances the deep femoral arch may be observed to spring from the deep surface of the inguinal ligament about its middle. After traversing the front of the sheath the band expands somewhat, and is attached by its medial extremity to the ilio-pectineal line or pecten of the pubic bone behind the lacunar ligament. Constitution of the Femoral Sheath.—The source from183 THE THIGH which the femoral sheath is derived, and the manner in which it is formed, must next be considered. This entails the study of some of the structures concerned in the construc- tion of the abdominal wall. Unfortunately it is not likely that, at this period, the dissection of the abdomen is in a sufficiently advanced state for their examination. A small portion of the medial part of the interval between the inguinal ligament and the portion of the innominate bone over which it stretches is filled up by the lacunar ligament. Immediately to the lateral side of this the femoral vessels, enclosed within the femoral sheath, enter the thigh from the abdominal cavity, whilst still more laterally the interval is occupied by the ilio-psoas muscle. Three nerves also find their way into the thigh through the interval, viz. the lumbo-inguinal nerve, which passes distally in the femoral sheath; the femoral (O.T. anterior crural) nerve, which occupies the interval be- tween the psoas and iliacus muscles ; and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which runs behind the inguinal ligament close to its iliac attachment. The arrangement of the aponeurotic lining of the abdominal cavity with reference to this interval of communi- cation between abdomen and thigh also requires attention. The lower part of the posterior wall of the abdomen, immedi- ately above the thigh, is formed by the iliacus and psoas muscles. These are covered by that part of the aponeurotic lining of the abdomen which receives the name of the fascia iliaca} The anterior wall of the abdomen is lined in like manner by a portion of the general lining, termed the fascia transversalis. To the lateral side of the femoral vessels these two fascial layers become continuous with each other, and at the same time are attached to the back of the inguinal liga- ment. It is behind this union that the ilio-psoas, the femoral nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh are carried distally into the thigh. But the external iliac vessels (which become the femoral vessels in the thigh) with the lumbo-inguinal nerve lie anterior to the fascia iliaca, or, in other words, within the fascial lining of the abdomen, and, as they proceed distally behind the inguinal ligament, they carry with them a * The dissector must bear in mind the distinction between the fascia iliaca and the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The former is a part of the general aponeurotic lining of the abdomen, and the latter is a part of the fascial invest- ment of the thigh.184 INFERIOR EXTREMITY funnel-shaped prolongation of the lining. This, then, is the femoral sheath, and the dissector will now readily understand that the miterior wall of the sheath is formed of fascia transversalis from the anterior wall of the abdomen above the inguinal ligament, while the posterior wall is formed of fascia iliaca, prolonged downwards from the posterior abdominal wall. Posterior Wall of the Femoral Sheath.—There are still Fig. 69.—Dissection to show the Femoral Sheath and the otlrer Structures which pass between the Inguinal Ligament and the Innominate Bone. some additional facts relating to the posterior wall of the femoral sheath which require to be mentioned. It is formed, as stated above, by the fascia iliaca; but as this enters the thigh it blends with the fascia pectinea, and further, it is firmly fixed in position by certain connections which it establishes in the thigh. Thus beyond the femoral sheath it is prolonged laterally over the ilio-psoas muscle, whilst from its posterior aspect a lamina is given off which passes posterior to that muscle and joins the capsule of the hip-joint.185 THE THIGH Dissection.—The femoral sheath should be opened, in order that the arrangement of parts inside may be displayed. Make three vertical and parallel incisions through the anterior wall—one over the femoral artery which occupies the lateral part of the sheath, another over the femoral vein, and the third about half an inch medial to the second. The first two should begin at the level of the inguinal ligament, and should extend distally for an inch and a half. The most medial of the three incisions should commence at the same point, but should only be carried distally for half an inch or less. Interior of the Femoral Sheath.—A little dissection will show that the sheath is subdivided by two vertical partitions into three compartments. The femoral artery and lumbo- inguinal nerve occupy the most lateral cotnpartment; the femoral vein fills up the intermediate cotnpartment ■, whilst in the most medial compartment is lodged a little loose areolar tissue, a small lymph gland, and some lymph vessels. This last compartment, from its relation to femoral hernia, has the special name of canalis fetnoralis applied to it. Canalis Femoralis (Femoral Canal).—The boundaries and extent of this canal must be very thoroughly studied. The best way to do this is to introduce the little finger into the canal and push it gently upwards. The length of the canal is not nearly so great as that of the other two compartments. Indeed it is not more than half an inch long. Inferiorly it is closed, and it rapidly diminishes in width from above downwards. Its proximal aperture lies on the lateral side of the base of the lacunar ligament, and is called the annulus femoralis. It is closed by the closely applied extra-peritoneal fatty tissue of the abdominal wall. The parts which immediately surround this opening can be readily detected with the finger: laterally the femoral vein, medially the sharp crescentic base of the lacunar ligament, anteriorly the inguinal ligament, and pos- teriorly the pubic bone covered by the pectineus muscle. The portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which closes the ring is called the septum femorale. On the abdominal surface of the septum femorale is the peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity, and when examined from above both are seen to be slightly depressed into the opening so as to produce the appearance of a dimple. Femoral Hernia.—Femoral hernia is the name applied to a pathological condition which con.sists in the protrusion of some of the contents of the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In their descent theyINFERIOR EXTREMITY i86 pass behind the inguinal ligament into the canalis femoralis or most medial compartment of the femoral sheath. The arrangement of the parts which occupy the interval between the hip bone and the inguinal ligament has been carefully considered, and the dissector should therefore be in a position to understand how the occurrence of such a protrusion is rendered possible. To the medial side of the femoral sheath the interval is closed by the lacunar ligament, which, by its strength and firm connections, constitutes an impassable barrier in this locality. To the lateral side of the femoral sheath a hernial protrusion is equally impossible. There the fascia trahsversalis on the anterior wall of the abdomen becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and along the line of union both are firmly attached to the inguinal ligament. It is in the region of the femoral sheath, then, that femoral hernia takes place. The three compartments of the sheath open above into the abdominal cavity, but there is an essential difference between the three openings. The two lateral, which hold the artery and the vein, are completely filled up by their contents. The canalis femoralis, or most medial compartment, is not; it is much wider than is necessary for the passage of the fine lymph vessels which traverse it. Further, its widest part is the upper opening or annuhts femoralis. It has been noted that this is wide enough to admit the point of the little finger, and it forms a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen ; a source of weakness which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that in the former the distance between the iliac spine and the pubic tubercle is proportionally greater, and in consequence the annulus femoralis wider. Femoral hernia, therefore, is more common in the female. When attempts are made to reduce a femoral hernia, it is absolutely necessary that the course which the protrusion has taken should be kept constantly before the mind of the operator. In the first instance it descends for a short distance in a perpendicular direction. It then turns forward and bulges through the fossa ovalis. Should it still continue to enlarge, it bends upwards over the inguinal ligament, and pushes its way laterally towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The protrusion is thus bent upon itself, and if it is to be reduced successfully it must be made to retrace its steps. In other words, it must be drawn distally, and then pushed gently posteriorly and upwards. The position of the limb during this procedure must be attended to. When the thigh is fully extended and rotated laterally all the fascial structures in the neighbour- hood of the canalis femoralis are rendered tight and tense. When the limb is flexed at the hip-joint and rotated medially, on the other hand, the cornu superius of the margin of the fossa ovalis, and even the lacunar ligament, are relaxed. This, then, is the position in which the limb should be placed during the reduction of the hernia. As the hernia descends it carries before it the various layers which it meets in the form of coverings. First it pushes before it the peritoneum, and this forms the hernial sac. The other coverings from within outwards are—(i) the septum femorale ; (2) the wall of the femoral sheath (if it does not burst through one of the apertures in this); (3) the fascia cribrosa; (4) and lastly, the superficial fascia and skin. The femoral canal, as we have noted, is surrounded by very unyielding structures. Strangulation in cases of femoral hernia is therefore a matter of very common occurrence. The sharp base of the lacunar ligament and the superior cornu of the margin of the fossa ovalis are especially apt to bring about this condition. Abnormal Obturator Artery.—The account of the surgical anatomy of femoral liernia cannot be complete without mention of the relation which the obturator artery frequently bears to the annulus femoralis. In.87 THE THIGH two out of every five subjects the obturator artery, on one or on both sides, takes origin from the inferior epigastric artery. In these cases it passes posteriorly to gain the obturator sulcus in the upper part of the obturator foramen. According to the point at which it arises from the epigastric trunk, it presents different relations to the femoral ring. In the majority of cases it proceeds posteriorly in close contact with the external iliac vein and on the lateral side of the femoral ring. In this position it is in no danger of being wounded in operations undertaken for the relief of a strictured femoral hernia. In about thirty-seven per cent, however, of the Adductor brevis Femoral vein Great saphenous vein Femoral artery Lateral cutaneous nerve Profunda femoris artery* Lateral circumflex artery- inguinal ligament (Poupart’s) Superficial circumflex iliac artery Femoral nerve Superficial epigastric afid superficial pudendal arteries Deep external pudendal artery Intermediate cuta- neous nerve (O.T. middle cutaneous) Fig. 70.—Dissection of the Trigonuni Fenioralc. ca.^s, in which it exists, the artery is placed less favourably. In these, it either proceeds posteriorly across the septum femorale which closes the opening into the canalis femoralis, or it arches over it and turns posteriorly on the medial side of the ring upon the deep aspect of the base of the lacunar ligament. In the latter situation it is in a position of great danger, seeing that it is the base of the lacunar ligament against which the surgeon’s knife is generally directed for the relief of strictured femoral hernia. Dissection.—The femoral triangle may now be dissected. To bring its boundaries into view the deep fascia must be removed from the anterior aspect of the proximal third of the thigh ; in the distal two-thirds, theINFERIOR EXTREMITY i88 fascia lata should be left undisturbed, so as to maintain as far as possible the natural position of parts. Trigonum Femorale (O.T. Scarpa’s Triangle),—This is the name which is given to the triangular hollow which lies in the proximal part of the thigh below the inguinal ligament. The lateral boundary is formed by the sartorius muscle.^ as it runs distally and medially across the thigh from the anterior superior spine of the ilium; the medial boundary is constituted by the prominent medial margin of the adductor longus muscle. These muscles meet below to form the apex of the triangle. The inguinal ligament forms the base of the triangle. The contents of the space must now be displayed by remov- ing the fatty areolar tissue which surrounds them. The femoral vessels should first be cleaned. Remove the remains of the femoral sheath and define the various branches which proceed from the vessels in so far as they are seen within the limits of the triangular space. Be careful not to injure the small twig of the femoral nerve which supplies the pectineus; it passes medially behind the vessels a short distance distal to the inguinal ligament. In this part of its course the femoral artery gives off—(i) the three superficial inguinal vessels, which have already been observed ramifying in the superficial fascia of the groin of the subinguinal region ; (2) the deep external pudendal, which runs medially over the pectineus; (3) the large profunda fe7tioris. The profmda fe^tioris comes off from the lateral side of the femoral artery about one and a half inch below the inguinal ligament. It inclines distally and medially behind the femoral trunk, and soon leaves the space by passing posterior to the adductor longus. The lateral and medial circumflex arteries of the thigh will be seen to arise from the profunda femoris within the femoral triangle. The a. circumflex femoris lateralis (O.T. external circumflex) should be traced laterally as it passes amongst the branches of the femoral nerve, to disappear under cover of the lateral boundary of the space. The a. circumflex femoris 7/iedialis (O.T. internal circumflex) passes from view, shortly after its origin, by sinking posteriorly through the floor of the space between the pectineus and psoas muscles. The veins corre- sponding to these arteries must be cleaned at the same time. Certain nerves are also to be found in this space, viz.—(i)189 THE THIGH ihe lumbo inguinal nerve, (2) the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; and (3) the femoral nerve. The lumbo-mguinal nerve descends in the lateral compartment of the femoral sheath on the lateral side of the femoral artery. It pierces the lateral wall of the sheath and the fascia lata a short distance below the inguinal ligament, and has already been traced to its distribution (p. 175). The lateral cutaneotis nerve of the thigh passes into the thigh behind the inguinal ligament, close to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It soon leaves the femoral triangle by crossing the sartorius and piercing the fascia lata. It has already been traced in its ramifications in the superficial fascia on the lateral aspect of the thigh. The femoral nerve will be detected, lying deeply, in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, about a quarter of an inch to the lateral side of the femoral artery. In- sinuate the handle of a knife under the main trunk, so as to raise it above the level of the muscles between which it lies, and render it tense, and then follow the numerous branches into which it breaks up as far as the limits of the space will allow. The small twig to the pectineus muscle must be looked for. It passes medially, posterior to the femoral vessels. The floor oi the femoral triangle slopes backwards both from the medial and the lateral boundary of the space. To the medial side of the femoral artery it is formed by the adductor longics and the pectmeus; in some cases a small portion of the adductor brevis may be seen in a narrow interval between these two muscles. To the lateral side of the artery are the psoas and iliacus. The adductor longus is placed in an oblique plane, the medial border being nearer the surface than the lateral border; and thus it is that this muscle not only forms the medial boundary of the triangle, but also takes part in the formation of the floor. These muscles should be cleaned in so far as they stand in relation to the femoral triangle. When a transverse section is made through the frozen thigh in the region of the femoral triangle, thej space has the appearance of a deep intermuscular furrow, bounded on the medial side by the adductor longus and pectineus, and on the lateral side by the sartorius and rectus femoris, whilst behind it is separated from the bone by the ilio-psoas. The femoral vessels and the femoral nerve pass distally in this groove—the a. profunda femoris being placed very deeply, whilst the femoral artery lies nearer to the surface.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 190 Arteria Femoralis (O.T. Femoral Artery, Common and Superficial).—The femoral artery, the great arterial trunk of the inferior extremity, is the direct continuation of the external iliac. It begins at the inguinal ligament, behind which it enters the thigh, and it extends distally to the open- ing in the adductor magnus, through which it gains the fossa poplitea and becomes the popliteal artery. This opening is situated in the distal third of the medial region of the thigh, and the course which the vessel pursues may be marked on the surface, when the thigh is slightly abducted and rotated laterally, by an oblique line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis to the medial condyle of the femur. The relations which the artery bears to the femur are im- portant. As it enters the femoral triangle it passes from the brim of the pelvis and comes to lie in front of the medial part of the head of the femur, from which it is separated by the psoas muscle. Although its relation to the bone is tolerably intimate, this situation should not be chosen for applying compression. On account of the mobility of the head of the bone there is a liability for the vessel to slip from under the fingers. It is much safer to compress it against the brim of the pelvis. Below the head of the femur, during the re- mainder of its course through the femoral triangle, the artery is not in direct relation to the bone. It crosses anterior to the angular interval between the neck and body of the femur. Towards the apex of the space, however, it comes into relation with the medial side of the body of the femur, and this position it holds to its termination. In the present condition of the dissection it is only that part of the femoral artery which traverses the femoral triangle which comes under the notice of the dissector. The length of this part varies with the development of the sartorius muscle, and the degree of obliquity with which this crosses the front of the thigh. It measures from three to four inches in length, and is comparatively superficial throughout its entire course. At the apex of the triangle the femoral artery disappears under cover of the sartorius and takes up a deeper position in the limb. In the femoral triangle the femoral artery is enveloped in its proximal part by the femoral sheath, and is separated from the surface by the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, whilstTHE THIGH 191 more distally it is crossed by the medial cutaneous branch (O.'r. internal cutaneous) of the femoral nerve, which runs along the medial border of the sartorius muscle. Posterior to the artery are the psoas and pectineus, but it is separated from the psoas by the femoral sheath and the nerve to the pectineus, and from the pectineus by fatty areolar tissue in which lie the profunda femoris artery and the femoral vein. Upon the lateral side of the femoral artery is the femoral nerve—but not in apposition with it, as a small portion of the psoas intervenes. The femoral vein changes its position with reference to the artery, as it is traced distally. In the proximal part of the space it lies on the same plane and to the medial side of the artery, but distally it becomes more deeply placed and gradually assumes a position posterior to the artery. The branches which the femoral artery gives off in the femoral triangle have already been enumerated (p. 188). One of these, viz. the deep external pudendal, may now be traced to its destination. Art. Pudenda Externa Profunda (Deep External Pudic). —This is a small twig which arises from the medial side of the femoral, a short distance below the inguinal ligament. It extends medially, upon the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and, piercing the fascia lata, ends, according to the sex, in the integument of the scrotum or of the labium pudendi. Dissection.—The fascia lata may now be removed from the distal two- thirds of the anterior and medial parts of the thigh. This can best be effected by dividing it along the middle line of the limb, and throwing it laterally and medially. Preserve undisturbed the thickened band of fascia (tractus ilio-tibialis) on the lateral side of the thigh. In cleaning the sartorius muscle several of the nerves of the thigh will be found intimately related to it, and must be carefully dissected. The intermediate cutaneous nerve (O.T. middle cutaneous) frequently pierces its proximal border, and then proceeds distally in front of it ; the anterior branch of the medial cutaneous crosses it more distally, whilst the posterior branch of the same nerve is carried distally along its posterior border. Near the knee it lies superficial to the saphenous nerve, which ultimately comes to the surface between it and the gracilis. A short distance above this the sartorius is pierced by the infrapatellar branch of the saphenous nerve. Lastly, about the middle of the thigh, there is formed under cover of the sartorius, an interlacement of fine nerve twigs derived from the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous, the saphenous nerve, and the obturator nerve. On raising the sartorius from subjacent parts this must be looked for. The different portions of the quadriceps extensor muscle must also be cleaned ; and the branches which the femoral nerve gives to them, andINFERIOR EXTREMITY 192 the descending branch of the lateral circumflex artery must be traced to their terminations. M. Sartorius. — The sartorius is a long slender muscle, which arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and Rectus femoris Sartorius -. Medial cutaneous nene Fascial roof of adductor canal (Hunter's) Femoral vein Vastus medialis- Sartorius Semimembranosus Saphenous nerve Medial intermuscular of adductor Sup. genicular artery (O.T. anastomotic) Branches of medial cutaneous nerve Saphenous nerve - Nerve to vastus medialis-- Femoral artery- Adductor magnus Fascial roof of adductor canal (Hunter's) Muscular artery Adductor longus. Great saphenous vein Superficial fascia Fascia lata Fig. 71.—Dissection of the Adductor Canal (Hunter's) in the right lower limb. A portion of the Sartorius has been removed. the upper part of the notch on the anterior border of the bone immediately below. It crosses the front of the proximal third of the thigh obliquely, and, gaining the medial side of the limb, it takes a nearly vertical course distally to a point beyond the medial prominence of the knee. There it turns forwards, and ends in a thin, expanded aponeurotic tendon, which is'I'HE rillGli *93 inserted into the medial surface of the body of the tibia, posterior to the tuberosity (Fig. 92, p. 248). By its distal border this tendon is connected with the fascia of the leg, whilst by its proximal border it is joined to the capsule of the knee-joint. In its upper oblique part the sartorius muscle forms the lateral boundary of the femoral triangle, and lies anterior to the iliacus, the rectus femoris, and the adductor longus muscles. Distally, it is placed anterior to the femoral vessels as far as the opening in the adductor magnus. At its insertion its ex- panded tendon lies anterior and superficial to the tendons of M. vastus meclialis M. vastus interinedius M. sartorius Femoral vessels and n. saphenusin . adductor canal (Hunter’s) M. adductor Femur ISI. vastus lateralis Fig. 72.—Transverse Section through the Adductor Canal. insertion of the gracilis and semitendinosus, but is separated from them by a bursa. The sartorius is supplied by the anterior division of the femoral 7ierve. Canalis Adductorius Hunteri (Hunter’s Canal).—When the femoral artery leaves the femoral triangle it is continued distall)'; in the medial region of the thigh, in a deep furrow, which is bounded anteriorly by the vastus medialis muscle, and posteriorly by the adductor muscles. If this furrow be traced proximally, it will be seen to run into the deeper, wider, and more apparent hollow, which has been described as the femoral triangle. Further, this intermuscular recess is converted into a canal, triangular on transverse section, by a strong fibrous membrane which stretches across it, and upon the surface of which the sartorius muscle is i)laccd (Fig. 72). The tunnel VOL. I—l:jINFERIOR EXTREMITY 194 thus formed is called the adductor canal or “ Hunter’s Canal.” When the fibrous expansion which closes in the canal is traced proximally, it is seen to become thin and ill-defined as it approaches the femoral triangle; when traced in the opposite direction, however, it becomes dense and strong, and opposite the opening in the adductor magnus it presents a thick, sharply defined margin. It stretches from the adductor longus and the adductor magnus posteriorly to the vastus medialis anteriorly. In its distal part the posterior wall of the N. cutaneus femoris lateralis M. vastus intermedius Femur M, vastus lateralis Profunda vessels N. ischiadicus M. biceps femoris M. rectus femoris Intermediate cutaneous nerve (O.T. middle) . gracilis M. adductor magnus M. sartorius Femoral vessels in canal (Hunter’s) . saphena magna M. adductor longus M. semitendinosus M. semimembranosus Fig. 73.—Transverse Section through the Middle of the Thigh. The relationship of the parts in Adductor Canal (Hunter's) is seen. canal, where it is formed by the adductor magnus, presents a deficiency or aperture which leads backwards into the popli- teal fossa. The appearance and construetion of this aperture will be studied at a later stage. It is called the hiatus tendineus or opening in the adductor magnus. The femoral vessels and the saphenous nerve traverse the adductor canal. In this part of its course the artery gives off some muscular twigs and the arteria genu suprema. The femoral vessels leave the canal at its distal end by inclin- ing posteriorly through the opening in the adductor magnus and entering the fossa poplitea. The saphenous nerve, accompanied by the saphenous branch of the art. genu195 THE THKIII suprenia, escape from the canal by passing under cover of the distal thickened margin of the fibrous expansion which forms the roof. They can be seen in the present stage of the dissection in this situation.- Dissection.—The fibrous expansion which is stretched across the adductor canal, under cover of the sartorius muscle, should now be divided, in order that the arrangement of the parts within the canal may be studied. Distal Portion of the Femoral Artery.—The entire length of the femoral artery is now exposed. Below the apex of the femoral triangle it enters the adductor canal, and is separated from the medial surface of the.thigh by the fibrous expansion which closes the canal, the sartorius muscle, the fascia lata, and the integument. The saphenous nerve crosses anterior to the artery from the lateral to the medial side. Proximo-distally the artery rests upon the pectineus, the adductor brevis, the adductor longus, and the adductor magnus. Its proximal part, however, is separated from these muscles by the femoral vein, which lies posterior to it; more distally, the vein, which inclines laterally, comes to lie on its lateral side on a posterior plane. The relation of parts in the adductor canal is seen in Figs. 71, 72, and 73. From the femoral artery, as it traverses Hunter’s canal, proceed muscular twigs and the arteria genu suprema. The viiiscular branches are irregular in number and in their mode of origin. They supply the vastus medialis, the adductor longus, and the sartorius. Arteria Genu Suprema (O.T. Anastomotic).—This branch springs from the femoral trunk a short distance proximal to the point where it enters the fossa poplitea by passing through the opening in the adductor magnus. The arteria genu suprema almost immediately divides into a saphenous and an articular branch: very frequently, indeed, these branches take separate origin from the femoral artery. The saphenous branch accompanies the saphenous nerve, and leaves the adductor canal by passing under cover of the distal border of the fibrous expansion which is stretched over the canal. On the medial side of the knee it appears between the gracilis and sartorius, and it ends in branches to the integument on the medial aspect of the proximal part of the leg. 'I'he articular branch enters the substance of the vastus196 INFERIOR EXTREMITY medialis and proceeds distally, anterior to the tendon of the adductor magnus. It gives some twigs to the vastus medialis and others which spread out over the proximal and medial aspects of the knee-joint, and it anastomoses with branches of the medial genicular arteries. One well-marked branch runs laterally, proximal to the patella, to anastomose with the lateral superior genicular artery. Vena Femoralis (Femoral Vein).—This is the direct proximal continuation of the popliteal vein. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, through which it enters the adductor canal, whilst proximally it passes behind the inguinal ligament and becomes continuous with the external iliac vein. It accompanies the femoral artery, but the relations of the two vessels to each other differ at different stages of their course. In the distal part of Hunter’s canal the vein lies on the lateral and posterior side of the artery, but it inclines medially as it ascends, and in the proximal part of the thigh it lies on its medial side and on the same plane. The cross- ing from one side to the other takes place posterior to the artery and is very gradual, so that for a considerable distance the femoral vein lies directly posterior to the femoral artery. For a distance of two inches distal to the inguinal ligament it is enclosed within the femoral sheath, of which it occupies the intermediate compartment. As it ascends in the thigh the femoral vein receives tributaries which, for the most part, correspond with the branches of the femoral artery. At the fossa ovalis it is joined by the great saphenous vein. The dissector should slit the femoral vein open with the scissors. Several valves will then be seen. One is almost invariably found immediately proximal to the entrance of the vein which corresponds to the profunda artery. Nervus Femoralis (O.T. Anterior Crural).—The femoral nerve is a large nerve which arises, within the abdomen, from the lumbar plexus. It enters the thigh by passing distally in the interval between the psoas and iliacus muscles, posterior to the inguinal ligament and the fascia iliaca. In the proximal part of the thigh it lies to the lateral side of the femoral artery, and is separated from it by a small portion of the psoas muscle and the femoral sheath. A short distance below the inguinal ligament it divides into an anterior and a posterior portion, which at once resolve themselves into a'FHE THIGH 197 large number of cutaneous and muscular branches. The following is a list of these :— With the exception of the saphenous nerve, which is distributed upon the medial side of the leg and foot, the distribution of the cutaneous branches of the femoral nerve has been already examined (p. 175). The nerve to the pectineus arises a short distance below the inguinal ligament and turns medially, posterior to the femoral vessels, to reach its destination. The branches to the sartorius are two or three in number. As a rule they take origin by a common trunk with the intermediate cutaneous nerv'e. The intermediate cutaneous nerve (O.T. middle cutaneous') sometimes pierces the proximal border of the sartorius. It divides into two branches which perforate the fascia lata about three or four inches distal to the inguinal ligament. The medial cutaneous nerve (O.T. internal cutaneoits) inclines distally and medially and crosses anterior to the femoral artery. It divides into an anterior and a posterior portion, which become superficial at different levels on the medial side of the limb. From the trunk of the nerve a few cutaneous twigs are given to the skin over the proximal and medial parts of the thigh. The anterior branch crosses the sartorius muscle and makes its appearance through the fascia lata in the distal part of the thigh, a short distance in front of the great saphenous vein. The posterior branch runs distally, along the posterior border ol the sartorius, and pierces the deep fascia on the medial side of the knee, behind the sartorius and the saphenous nerve. A short distance distal to the middle of the thigh the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous nerve forms, with filaments from the obturator nerve and the saphenous nerve, a plexiform interlacement, the sartorial plexus. Anterior division, To the rectus femoris. ,, vastus medialis. ,, vastus lateralis. Posterior division, Rami musculares, ,, vastus inter- medins. ,, m. articularis genu. Ramus cutaneus, Saphenous nerve. ^ Rami articulates. I—13 a198 INFERIOR EXTREMITY which is placed deep to the sartorius muscle as it lies over the adductor canal (Hunter’s). The twig from the obturator nerve appears at the medial border of the adductor longus. The nervus saphenus (O.T. inte?'7ial sapJmious ?ierve) is the longest branch of the femoral nerve. It springs from the posterior division of that nerve and runs distally on the lateral side of the femoral artery. Entering the adductor canal, with the femoral vessels, it comes to lie anterior to the artery. At the distal end of the canal it emerges, by passing under cover of the thickened border of the fibrous expansion which stretches between the vastus medialis and the adductor muscles, and, accompanied by the saphenous branch of the arteria genu suprema, it escapes from under cover of the sartorius and pierces the deep fascia at the medial side of the knee. It gives off the infrapatellar branch after it quits the adductor canal. This branch pierces the sartorius and appears on the surface of the fascia lata on the medial side of the knee. Several large branches of the posterior part of the femoral nerve enter the four factors which compose the great quadriceps extensor muscle of the thigh. From certain of these, articular filaments are given to the hip and knee- joints. The branch to the rectus fetnoris sinks into the deep surface of that muscle. It supplies an articular twig to the hip-joint. The large branch to the vastus 7nedialis accompanies the saphenous nerve and enters the proximal part of the adductor canal. It can readily be distinguished from its sinking into the medial aspect of the vastus medialis about the middle of the thigh. In the substance of the muscle it extends distally, and near the knee joins the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema. It gives an articular nerve to the synovial lining of the knee-joint. The 7ie7-ve to the vastus lateralis is associated with the descending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. Very frequently it gives an articular twig to the knee-joint. The nerves to the vastus i7iter7nedius are two or three in number and they sink into its anterior surface. The most medial of them is a long slender nerve, which can be traced distally under the anterior border of the vastus medialis to the articular muscle of the knee. Its terminal twigs are given to the synovial stratum of the knee-joint. One filament then from the femoral nerve goes to the199 THE THIGH hip-joint; two, and frequently three, filaments go to the knee-joint. Tractus Ilio-tibialis of Fascia Lata (O.T. Ilio-tibial Band).—The thick band of fascia lata on the lateral aspect of the thigh which receives this name should now be e.xamined, and its connections ascertained. It has been preserved for this purpose. Distally it is attached to the lateral condyle of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. On tracing it proximally, on the lateral surface of the vastus lateralis, it will be observed to split, at the junction of the middle and proximal thirds of the thigh, into two lamellce —a superficial and a deep. The tensor fascite latje is enclosed between these layers, and when they are disengaged from its surfaces the muscle will be seen to be inserted into the fascia at the angle of splitting. The superficial lamina of the tractus ilio-tibialis is attached above to the crest of the ilium, and is continuous posteriorly with the glutaeal aponeurosis where this covers the glutaeus medius. The deep lamina can be followed proximally, on the lateral surface of the rectus femoris, to the capsule of the hip-joint, with the upper and lateral part of which it blends. It is also connected with the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. This layer is per- forated by the ascending twigs of the lateral circumflex artery of the thigh. M. Tensor Fasciae Latae (0.1’. Tensor Fasciae Femoris). —This is a small muscle which is placed on the lateral and anterior aspect of the proximal third of the thigh. It lies between the two lamellae of the tractus ilio-tibialis, in the interval between the sartorius muscle anteriorly and the glutaeus medius muscle posteriorly. On turning the muscle laterally so as to display its deep surface, a little dissection will bring into view its nerve of supply which comes from the superior glutceal nerve. A few arterial twigs from the lateral circumflex artery also sink into its deep surface. The tensor fascice. latae arises from a small portion of the anterior part of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium; from the upper part of the margin of the notch below the anterior superior (iliac) spine ; and by some fibres from the aponeurosis covering the glutaeus medius. It extends distally, with a slight inclination posteriorly, and is inserted into the tractus ilio-tibialis of the fascia lata at its angle of splitting. Art. Circumflexa Femoris Lateralis (O. I'. External I—13iINFERIOR EXTREMITY 200 Circumflex Artery).—This is the largest branch which proceeds from the profunda femoris artery. It arises near the origin of the latter from the femoral artery, and runs laterally, between the divisions of the femoral nerve and under cover of the sartorius and rectus femoris muscles. It ends by dividing into ascending, transverse, and descending branches. The ascending branch reaches the dorsum ilii by passing M. rectus femoris (straight head of origin) M. rectus femoris (reflected head of origin) Attachment of the lig. lio-femorale M. adductor longus (origin) abdominis (origin) M. rectus abdominis (origin) Fig. 74.—Muscle-Attachments to the Lateral Surface of the Pubis and Ischium. • proximally under cover of the tensor fascite latte. Its terminal twigs anastomose with the superior glutteal artery. The irans- verse branch is of small size. It passes to the deep surface of the vastus lateralis, reaches the posterior part of the thigh, and inosculates with the medial circumflex artery and the first perforating artery. The descending b7-anch gives twigs to the vastus intermedins and rectus femoris, and one long branch, which may be traced distally, amid the fibres of the vastus lateralis, to the knee, where it anastomoses with the lateral superior genicular artery. ftr. gracilis (origin) M. adductor brevis (origin) M. .semimeni branosus (origin M. quadratus femoris (origin) Mm. biceps and semitendinosus (origin)'I'HE THIGH 201 Intermuscular Septa.—Divide the tractus ilio-iibialis of the fascia lata distal to the point at which it splits to enclose the tensor fasciae lataj. This is done so as to obtain a better view of the vastus lateralis, and in order to demonstrate satisfactorily the lateral intermuscular septum. Take hold of the distal portion of the tractus ilio-tibialis and draw it forcibly laterally ; at the same time push medially the vastus lateralis muscle, and a strong fibrous septum will be seen passing medially from the fascia lata towards the linea aspera. This is the lateral intermuscular septum of the thigh, a partition interposed between the vastus lateralis and the short head of the biceps femoris. Follow it proximally and distally with the finger. The fibres of the vastus lateralis are seen arising from it, but little difficulty will be experienced in making out its attach- ment to the linea aspera and lateral supracondylar ridge of the femur. It extends in a proximal direction as far as the insertion of the glutfeus maximus, whilst distally it reaches the lateral condyle of the femur. Immediately proximal to the lateral condyle of the femur it is pierced by the lateral superior genicular artery and nerve. The medial inter- muscular septmn is interposed between the adductors and the vastus medialis, and should also be examined. It is thin in comparison with the lateral septum. M. Quadriceps Femoris.—This muscle is composed of four portions. The rectus femoris, which is placed in the anterior part of the thigh, and is quite distinct from the others, except at its insertion; the vastus lateralis, vastus inter- medius, and the vastus medialis, which clothe the body of the femur on its lateral, anterior, and medial aspects, and are more or less blended with each other. M. Rectus Femoris.—This muscle arises by two tendinous heads of origin, which may be exposed by dissecting deeply in the interval between the iliacus and tensor fasciae latae. The anterior ox straight head springs from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium (Fig. 74, p. 200); the posterior or reflected head arises, under cover of the glutaeus minimus, from a marked impression on the lateral surface of the ilium, immediately above the upper part of the rim of the acetabulum (Fig. 74, p. 200). It is connected both with the capsule of the hiiD- joint and the deep lamina of the ilio-tibial tract of the fascia lata. At the present stage of dissection it is only possible to display theINFERIOR EXTREMITY 202 anterior part of this head ; the posterior part will be seen in the dissection of the glutseal region. The two heads of origin of the rectus femoris join at a right angle, immediately beyond the margin of the acetabulum, and form a strong flattened tendon, which gives place to a fusiform, fleshy belly. The tendon of origin spreads out on the anterior surface of the proximal part of the muscle in the form of an aponeurosis. About three inches proximal to the knee-joint the rectus femoris ends in a strong tendon of Its surface is covered by a glistening aponeurosis. The descending branch of the lateral circumflex artery constitutes the best guide to its anterior border, and when this margin is raised it will be seen that the muscle lies upon, and is partially blended with, the vastus intermedius. The vastus lateralis arises—(i) from the proximal part of the linea intertrochanterica; (2) from the front of the trochanter major, distal to the insertion of the gluta;us minimus; (3) from the root of the trochanter major below the insertion of the glutasus medius; (4) from the lateral part of the glutEEal tuberosity anterior to the insertion of the gluta;us M. insertion, which is prolonged for some distance proximally, on its deep surface, in the form of an aponeurosis. As it nears the patella this tendon is joined by the other tendons of the quadriceps, and through the :. iiio-psoas medium of a com- mon tendon finds insertion into the proximal border of that bone. The rectus femoris is supplied by the femoral 7ierve. M. Vastus Lateralis (O.T. the lateral side of the thigh.THE THIGH 203 maximus ; (5) from the proximal part of the linea aspera ; and (6) from the lateral intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres are for the most part directed distally and anteriorly. By means of the common tendon of insertion the muscle gains attachment to the patella and, at the same time, gives an expansion to the capsule of the knee-joint. It is supplied by the femoral nerve. M. Vastus Medialis (O.T. Vastus Internus) is intimately connected with the vastus intermedius, but not to such an extent as might be inferred from a superficial inspection. In its proximal part the anterior border, which is fleshy, is either contiguous to or blended with the intermedius; distally, the anterior border is tendinous and overlaps the intermedius, but it is not, as a rule, fused with it. “A line drawn from the middle of the linea intertrochanterica distally and slightly laterally to the middle of the proximal border of the patella will define accurately the thick anterior border of the vastus medialis.”—(Williams.) Dissection.—Divide the rectus femoris about its middle, and pull the distal part forcibly towards the foot. The narrow interval between the tendons of the vastus intermedius and vastus medialis will then become apparent, and may be followed proximally. A still further guide is the long, slender nerve of supply to the articular muscle of the knee ; it runs along the medial edge of the vastus intermedius. When the anterior border of the vastus medialis is raised from the vastus intermedius the medial surface of the body of the femur will be seen to be perfectly bare. No muscular fibres arise from this bony surface. The fleshy mass of the vastus medialis may now, with advantage, be divided transversely about two inches proximal to the patella. The muscle can then be thrown medially, and its origin studied. The vastus medialis arises—(i) from the lower part of the linea intertrochanterica; (2) from the line leading from this, distal to the trochanter minor, to the linea aspera; (3) from the medial lip of the linea aspera; (4) from the proximal part of the medial supracondylar line as far distally as the opening in the adductor magnus; (5) from the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus. The fleshy fibres are directed distally and anteriorly, and end in the common tendon of the quadri- ceps muscle. By this it is inserted into the patella, and becomes connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. It is supplied by the femoral nerve. M. Vastus Intermedius (O.T. Crureus) covers the anterior and lateral aspects of the body of the femur, from both of which, as well as from the distal part of the lateral inter-204 INFERIOR EXTREMITY muscular septum, it takes origin. It is inserted into the patella through the medium of the common tendon. It is supplied by the femoral nerve. Common Tendon of the Quadriceps.—It should now be noticed that the common tendon of the quadriceps muscle closes the knee-joint above the patella. It is inserted into the proximal border of that bone, and is intimately connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. Some fibres are carried distally into the ligamentum patellae upon the surface of the patella. A pouch of synovial membrane is prolonged proximally beyond the level of the patella, between the quadriceps and the bone. Into the wall of this pouch the m. articularis genu is inserted. Dissection.—The vastus intermedius should be divided in a vertical direc- tion, so as to bring the little muscle articularis into view, and at the same time the long, slender nerve-filament which runs along the medial border of the vastus intermedius may be traced to the muscle and the synovial stratum of the knee-joint. The ligatnentum patellce, which connects the patella with the tuberosity of the tibia, and through which the quadri- ceps is attached to that bone, will be studied in connection with the knee-joint. The whole of the quadriceps femoris is an extensor of the knee, and the rectus portion is also a flexor of the hip-joint. MEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH. The group of adductor muscles on the medial aspect of the thigh, together with the blood-vessels and nerves associated with them, must next be dissected. In this dissection the following are the structures which are displayed:— ' Pectineus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Gracilis. ^Obturator externus. / Profunda femoris (and its branches). \ Obturator. / The two divisions of the obturator nerve. \ Occasionally the accessory obturator nerve. Muscles, Arteries, Nerves,MEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 205 The adductor muscles are disposed in three strata. The anterior stratum is formed by the adductor longus and the pectineus, which lie in the same plane. Proximally they are placed side by side, but distally, as they approach their in- sertions, they are separated from each other by a narrow interval. The second stratum is formed by the adductor brevis ; and the third, or posterior layer, by the adductor magnus. The gracilis muscle, also an adductor, extends along the medial aspect of the thigh. It is a long, strap-like muscle, applied against the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. Inter- posed between these muscular layers, are the two divisions of the obturator nerve. The anterior division is placed between the anterior and middle layers, whilst the posterior division lies between the middle and posterior layers. In other words, the two divisions of the nerve are separated from each other by the adductor brevis, which intervenes between them. At the distal border of the adductor longus, a fine branch from the anterior division of the nerve makes its appearance to take part in the formation of the sartorial nerve plexus already dissected. The profunda artery and its branches are also to be followed. For a part of its course this vessel is placed between the anterior and middle muscular strata. M. Adductor Longus.—This muscle is placed on the medial side of the pectineus. It is somewhat triangular in shape, being narrow at its origin and expanded at its in- sertion. It arises by a short, but strong, tendon from the anterior surface of the body of the pubis, immediately distal to the pubic ridge (Fig. 74, p. 200), and it is inserted into the medial lip of the linea aspera of the femur by a thin, tendinous expansion. It is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator nerve. Dissection.—The adductor longus may now be reflected. Divide it close to the tendon of origin, and throw it laterally. In doing this be careful of the anterior division of the obturator nerve, which lies posterior to it, and gives to it its nerve of supply. On approaching the linea aspera of the femur its aponeurotic tendon will be found intimately connected with the vastus medialis anteriorly and with the adductor magnus posteriorly. Separate it from these as far as possible, in order that the profunda femoris vessels may be fully displayed as they proceed behind it. Art. Profunda Femoris.—This large vessel is the chief artery of sup[)ly to the muscles of the thigh. It arises in the femoral triangle from the lateral and posterior aspect of the femoral artery, about an inch and a half distal to the inguinal2o6 INFERIOR EXTREMITY ligament. At first it is placed on the iliacus, but, as it pro- ceeds distally, it inclines medially and thus it crosses posterior to the femoral artery, and comes to lie on the pectineus. Reaching the proximal border of the adductor longus, it passes posterior to that muscle, and is continued distally, close to the body of the femur, in front of the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. Numerous large branches spring from the profunda Fig. 76.—Muscle-Attachments to the Lateral Surface of the Os Pubis and Os Ischium. M. rectii.s femoris (straight head of origin) M. rectus femoris (reflected head of origin) Attachment of the lig. ilio-femorale M. adductor longus (origin) AT. pyramidalis abdominis (origiL M. rectus abdominis (origin M. semimem- branosus (origin) M. quadratus femoris (origin) Mm. biceps and semitendinosus (origin) M gracilis (origin) M. adductor brevis (origin) femoris, so that it rapidly diminishes in size. Ultimately it is reduced to a fine terminal twig, which turns posteriorly through the adductor magnus, and receives the name of the fourth perforating artery. The following are the relations of the profunda femoris:—(i) It lies anterior to the iliacus to the lateral side of the femoral artery. (2) It is anterior to the pectineus and posterior to the femoral artery, but separated from it by the femoral vein and the profunda vein. (3) It is anterior to the adductor brevis, and lower down to the adductor magnus and posterior to the adductor207 MEDIAL SIDE OF 'I’HE THK'.H llio-psoas A. circumflexa femoris lateralis ist, 2nd, and takes ard '■•'‘'’’i per- forantes A. fcmoralis Obturator externus A. profunda femoris A. circum- flexa femoris medialis ^ Pectineus longus, which separates it from the femoral artery. (4) The terminal twig, called the fourth perforating artery, pierces the adductor magnus at the junction of the middle and distal thirds of the thigh. The brafuhes which spring from the profunda femoris are: — the two circumflex arteries, the four perforating arteries, and some muscular branches. The lateral cir- cumflex artery arises from the lateral as- pect of the profunda, close to its origin. It has already been followed to its dis- tribution (p. 198). The tuedial circumflex artery, which origin at the same level, but from the medial and posterior aspect of the pro- funda, will be studied when the pectineus muscle is reflected. The 7uuscular branches are irregular both in origin and size. They supply the adductor muscles, and give twigs which pierce the adductor magnus to reach the ham- string muscles. The medial cir- cumflex artery frequently arises from the femoral trunk. Arterise Perforantes (Perforating Arteries).—These arise in series from the main trunk, and pass ])osteriorly through the adductor muscles to the posterior region of the thigh. They may be recognised from the close relation which they bear to the linea aspera of the femur. The artej-ia perforans prima comes off at the level of the distal border of the Adductor longus 4th perforating ramus Opening in adductor magnus Art. genu suprcma (0.^\ anastomotic) “Femoral artery Fig. 77.—A. Profunda Femoris and its Rami.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2o8 pectineus. It proceeds posteriorly through the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The arteria perforaris secunda takes origin a short distance lower down, or perhaps by a common trunk with the first perforating. It pierces the same muscles, viz. the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The arteria perforans tertia springs from the profunda distal to the adductor brevis, and passes posteriorly through the adductor magnus. The arteria perforans qnarta^ as before noted, is the terminal branch of the profunda femoris; it pierces the adductor magnus alone. The arteria nutricia femoris superior may spring from either the second or the third perforating branch. An inferior nutrient artery is frequently present; it is often derived from the fourth perforating artery. When the adductor magnus is more fully exposed it will be seen that the perforating arteries, as they pierce its tendon, have a series of fibrous arches thrown over them. M. Pectineus. — This muscle is placed between the adductor longus and the ilio-psoas. It is flat and somewhat broader at its origin from the brim of the pelvis than at its insertion into the femur. It has a fleshy origin, from the pecten pubis, and from the surface of the innominate bone anterior to it (Fig. 74, p. 200). Some fibres are likewise derived from the lacunar ligament. It descends obliquely laterally and posteriorly, and gains insertion into the femur, posterior to the lesser trochanter, and to a certain extent also into the line which leads from that prominence down to the linea aspera. It is supplied by the femoj-al nerve. Dissection.—The pectineus may be detached from its origin, and thrown distally and laterally. In separating the muscle from the pubis the dis- sector must bear in mind that in some cases an accessory obturator nerve descends into the thigh, under cover of its lateral margin, and over the brim of the pelvis. Care must also be taken not to injure the anterior division of the obturator nerve which lies posterior to the muscle, or the medial circumflex artery which passes posteriorly in contact with its lateral border. The Nervus Obturatorius Accessorius when present arises within the abdomen from the lumbar plexus or from (Fig. 208) the obturator trunk near its origin. In the thigh it gives a branch to the hip-joint and joins the anterior division of the obturator nerve. It is very rare to find a twig given to the pectineus either by it or by the trunk of the obturator nerve itself. Art. Circumflexa Femoris Medialis (O.'F. Internal Circum- flex).—This vessel springs from the medial and posterior aspect of the profunda femoris artery at the same level as the lateralMEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 209 circumflex branch. It passes ^Josteriorly between the adjacent margins of the psoas and the pectineus, and then between the adductor brevis and the obturator externus, to the posterior region of the thigh where, close to the lesser trochanter, it divides into an ascend- ing and a transverse terminal branch. Before it divides the main trunk gives off (i) a super- ficial branch which passes medially across the front of the pectineus and between the ad- ductors longus and brevis, and (2) an arti- cularbranch which enters the hip-joint through the incisura acetabuli. The terminal branches will be examined in the dissection of the gluteal region. M. obturator externus M. obturator internus quadratus femoris M. vastus M. vastus niedialis M. M. glutaeus maximus M. adductor M. adductor brevis Branches of the Femoral Fig. 78.—Posterior aspect of Pro.\iinal Artery.—In every region of Portion of Femur with the Attachments the thigh the dissector has met Muscles mapped out. with branches of the femoral artery. It is well now that he should revert to this vessel and study its branches in the order in which they arise. The following Tal)le may aid him in doing this :— A. profunda. Aa. pudendx externa; (superficial and deep). 1 A. epigastrica superficialis. L A. circumflexa ilium superficialis. J ® A. circumflexa femoris lateralis. A. circumflexa femoris medialis. A. femoralis. - , ^ , A. perforans prima. A. perforans secundus. Aa. Nutriciie. A. perforans tertia. A. perforans (piarta (terminal). Rami Musculares. I- A. genu suprema. M. Adductor Brevis.—This muscle lies posterior to the adductor longus and the pectineus. It arises, distal to the VOL. I—MINFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 10 I origin of the adductor longus, from the anterior aspect of the body and the inferior ramus of the os pubis (Fig. 74, p. 200). As it descends it inclines posteriorly and laterally, and it is Anterior superior spine of ilium Tensor fascia? latjE Sartorius Anterior inferior spine of ilium Iliacus Psoas External iliac vessels Femoral nerve(O.T. anterior crural) Capsule of hip-joint, grooved by m. ilio-psoas p^ctineus Profunda femoris vessels Vastus lateralis- Vastus intermedius Rectus femoris -Saphenous nerve Sartorius Fig. 79.—Dissection of the Front of the Thigh. 'Fhe hip-joint has been exposed by removing portions of the muscles which lie anterior to it. inserted, posterior to the pectineus, into the whole length of the line which extends from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera (Fig. 78, p. 209). It is supplied by the obturator nerve. Dissection.—Reflect the adductor brevis by cutting it close to its origin, and throwing it dislally and laterally. The posterior division of theMEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 2 I I I « \ obturator nerve is then exposed, and should be traced proximally to the obturator foramen, and distally to its distribution upon the adductor magnus. Nervus Obturatorius (Obturator Nerve).—The obturator nerve is a branch of the lumbar plexus (Fig. 212). It escapes Acc. Obturator nerve. Obt Obturator nerve. O.I, Obturator intcrnus. D.E. Obturator extemus. Py. Piriformis musclei • Ma. Glutffius maximiis. j Q. Quaclratus femoris. fci-M. Adductor magnus. » P. Pectineus. A.B, Adductor brevis A.L. Adductor longus. G. Gracilis. X. Branch to hip-joint. l.C. Medial circumflex artery. 1. Cutaneous branch. 2. Twig to walls of femoral artery. 3. Branch to knee- joint. Fig. 80.—Diagram to illustrate the distribution of the Obturator Nerve and the general disposition of the Adductor Muscles of the Thigh (Paterson). from the pelvis by passing, with its companion vessels, through the upper part of the obturator foramen of the innominate bone. While still within the foramen it divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The anterior division of the obturator nerve enters the thigh over the upper border of the obturator extcrnus muscle, and proceeds distally upon the anterior surface of the adductorINFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 I 2 brevis. Anterior to it are the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. It gives branches to three muscles, viz. the adductor longus, the adductor brevis, and the gracilis. Very rarely it will be observed to supply a twig to the pectineus. In addi- tion to these it supplies an articular branch to the hip-joint (Fig. 8o, X ) a fine twig, which appears at the distal border of Femoral nerve (O.T. ant. crural) Lumbo-inguinal nerve Femoral sheath Femoral canal Obturator artery Obturator nerve M. adductor longus Fig. 81.—Dissection to show the Structures surrounding the Obturator Foramen of the Hip Bone. the adductor longus, to join the sartorial plexus (Fig. So); and a terminal twig which goes to the femoral artery—(Fig. So)— and breaks up into fine filaments upon its walls. The posterior branch of the obturator nerve, as it enters the thigh, pierces the upper border of the obturator externus. It extends distally, between the adductor brevis and the adductor magnus, and is chiefly expended in the supply of the latter muscle. It gives also, however, a branch to the obturator externus and an articular branch to the knee-MEDIAL SIDE OF THE THIGH 213 joint. The latter branch pierces the distal part of the adductor magnus, close to the linea aspera, and will be seen in the fossa poplitea lying posterior to the popliteal artery. M. Gracilis.—This is a long, strap-like muscle, which lies along the medial aspect of the thigh and knee. It springs, by a thin tendon, from the lower half of the body of the pubis, close to the symphysis, and also from the upper half of the pubic arch (Fig. 81, p. 212). It ends in a slender, rounded tendon which inclines anteriorly below the knee, and then ex- pands and is inserted into the proximal part of the medial surface of the tibia, under cover of the tendon of the sartorius, and at a higher level than the insertion of the semitendinosus (Fig. 92, p. 248). A bursa mucosa separates the expanded tendon of the gracilis from the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint, and is prolonged above it, so as to intervene between it and the tendon of the sartorius. The gracilis is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator nerve. M. Adductor Magnus.—This is one of the most power- ful muscles of the thigh. It forms a flat, fleshy mass, which springs from the anterior surface of the entire length of the pubic arch of the corresponding side, and from the distal part of the tuber ischiadicum (Fig. 81, p. 212). The fibres which arise from the pubic arch spread out as they approach the posterior aspect of the femur. The proximal fibres are nearly horizontal in their direction; the more distal descend with increasing degrees of obliquity. They are inserted into the posterior part of the femur, just medial to the glutaeal tuberosity, into the linea aspera, and into a small portion of the proximal part of the medial supracondylar ridge (Fig. 77, p. 207). The fibres which take origin from the ischial tuberosity descend almost vertically and form the thick medial border of the niuscle. In the distal third of the thigh they end in a strong, rounded tendon, which is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the medial condyle of the femur (Fig. 102, p. 279). This tendon is further attached to the femur by the medial inter- muscular septum which stretches between it and the medial supracondylar line. Close to the linea aspera the dissector will notice that fibrous arches are formed in connection with the insertion of the adductor magnus for the passage of the perforating arteries. The opening through which the femoral artery enters the popliteal fossa lies in series with these. It I—14 a214 INFERIOR EXTREMITY is a gap between the two portions of the muscle, and is situated in the distal third of the thigh. The adductor magnus has a double nerve supply. The fibres which spring from the pubic arch are supplied by the posterior branch of the obturator nerve. Those which arise from the ischial tuberosity are supplied by the sciatic nerve. Dissection.—The adductor magnus should now be detached from its origin, in order that the obturator externus muscle and the obturator artery may be more fully examined. M. Obturator Externus. — The obturator externus is a flat, fan-shaped muscle, which is placed over the anterior aspect of the obturator foramen of the hip bone. It springs from the medial half of the membrane which closes the foramen, and also from the medial and lower part of its bony margin (Fig. 81, p. 212). It proceeds posteriorly and laterally, below the neck of the femur and the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and ends in a stout tendon which obtains insertion into the fossa trochanterica (Fig. 78, p. 209). This tendon will be examined in the dissection of the glutgeal region. The obturator externus is supplied by the posterior divisiott of the obturator nerve. Art. Obturatoria (Obturator Artery).—The obturator artery appears in the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen of the hip bone. It at once divides into two terminal branches, which diverge from each other and form an arterial circle upon the obturator membrane, under cover of the obturator externus. This muscle must therefore be detached in order that the vessels may be followed. Both branches give twigs to the neighbouring muscles, whilst the posterior brattch sends an articular tivig through the incisura acetabuli into the hip-joint. When the joint is opened this twig may be followed, in a well-injected subject, along the ligamentum teres into the head of the femur. Mm. Psoas Magnus and Iliacus.—These muscles arise within the abdomen and enter the thigh posterior to the inguinal ligament. A tendon appears on the lateral side of the psoas magnus, and into this the fibres of the iliacus are for the most part inserted. The conjoined tendon of the ilio- psoas is implanted into the lesser trochanter of the femur, but a certain proportion of the fleshy fibres of the iliacus obtain direct insertion into the body of the femur distal to that prominence (Fig. 78, p. 209).MEDIAI. SIDE OF THE THIGH 2'5 Dissection.—Divide the femoral vessels, and the femoral nerve, about an inch distal to the inguinal ligament, and having tied them together with twine throw them distally. Now cut through the sartorius and the rectus femoris, about two inches from their origins, and turn them aside. The tendon of the ilio-psoas must ne.xt be detached from its insertion and, with the muscle, turned upwards. This will e.xpose tlie anterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. An intervening bursa mucosa will also be displayed. Open this and ascertain its extent by introducing the finger. It facilitates the play of the ilio-psoas upon the front of the hip-joint, and in some cases its cavity will be found to be directly continuous with the cavity of the joint through an aperture in the capsular ligament. The intimate con- nection which exists between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendon of the gluUeus minimus, the reflected head of the rectus femoris, and the deep layer of the tractus ilio-tibialis, should be noticed. Lastly, turn aside the tensor fascue laUe, and carefully clean the anterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint. At the end of the fifth day the dissector must paint the various parts of the anterior and medial regions of the thigh with preservative solution, replace them in position and fix the skin flaps over them w'ith a few points of suture. On the morning of the sixth day after the subject has been brought into the dissecting-room, it is placed upon the table with its face downwards and its thorax and pelvis supported by blocks. In this position it is allowed to remain for five days, and during this time the dissector of the low’er extremity has a very extensive dissection to perform. He has to dissect—(i) the glutfeal region ; (2) the proximal part of the fossa poplitea ; and (3) the posterior region of the thigh. With so much work before him, and being limited as to the time in which it must be done, it is necessary that he should apportion the four days at his disposal so as to complete the dissection before the body is turned again. The first hvo days he should devote to the study ot the glutteal region ; the third and fourth days may be given to the fossa poplitea; and on the fifth day he should undertake the dissection of the back of the thigh, and revise the work of the four preceding days. GLUT/E A L REGION. In this region the following are the parts which will be displayed in the course of the dissection :— 1. .Superficial fascia. 2. Cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels. 3. Deep fascia, r—146INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 1 6 6. 7- Nerves Glutceus maximus ; (and after this has been reflected). Three bursa; auicosa'. The glutasus medius and minimus. The two gemelli muscles and the tendon of the obturator internus. Tendon of the obturator externus. Proximal border of the adductor magnus. The origin of the hamstrings from the tuber ischiadicuni. The proximal part of the vastus lateralis. The ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. (O.T. great sciatic lig.). The superior glutaal artery. The inferior glutreal artery (O.T. sciatic). The internal pudendal artery. The medial circumflex artery. ^Superior glutreal. Sciatic. Posterior femoral cutaneous. Pudendal. Nerve to m. obturator internus. Nerve to m. quadratus femoris. Inferior glutaeal. Supposing that two days are allowed for the above dissection, the first day’s work should consist—(i) in the dissection of the parts superficial to the glutreus maximus ; (2) in the cleaning and reflecting of this muscle ; (3) in tracing and defining the various nerves and blood-vessels which enter its deep surface. On the second day the parts which are exposed by the reflection of the gluta;us maximus should be dissected. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected the surface markings of the gluteal region require examination. On each side the prominence of the nates forms a round, smooth elevation. Inferiorly the nates are separated, in the middle line, by a deep fissure—the natal cleft. This cleft, if traced upwards, almost disappears over the prominence formed by the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. The crest of the ilium can be felt along its whole length, and in the well-formed male its position is indicated by a groove—the iliac furrow. Traced anteriorly the crest terminates in the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; traced posteriorly it ends in the posterior superior spine of the ilium. The position of the latter is indicated by a faint depression or dimple which lies on a level with the second spine of the sacrum, and it corresponds with the middle of the sacro- iliac articulation. The prominence of the nates is chiefly formed by the glutasus maximus muscle, covered by a thick layer of fat. A deep transverse groove, produced by a fold of skin and fascia, limits the gluteal elevation below. This is called the gluteal sulcus, and is sometimes said to correspond with the distal border of the glutteus maximus muscle. Itglut.4-:al region 217 can easily be shown that this is not the case. Its medial Mastoid process Spine of scapula Acromion occip. prolub. Inf. angle of I iG. 82.- Surface view showing incisions and bony poinl. end lies distal to the inferior margin of the muscle, but as it Medml condyle of femur Lateral condyle of femur Lateral condyle of tibia Head of fibula Medial epicondyle Olecranon Mead 0/ radius Media! malleolus Lateral malleolus Tip of coccyx Great trochanter Tuberosity of ischium Styloid process of ulna Styloid process of radius2 I 8 INFERIOR EXTREMITY proceeds transversely it crosses the muscle-border, and finally comes to lie on the surface of the muscle. In disease of the hip-joint, the buttock loses its prominence, whilst the glutseal sulcus becomes faint. The tuberosity of the ischium may be felt deep to the distal border of the glutaeus maximus by placing the fingers in the medial part of the glutreal sulcus and pressing upwards. A line drawn from the most prominent part of this tuberosity to the anterior superior spine of the ilium is called Nelatoti’s line-, it passes over the top of the great trochanter and crosses the centre of the acetabulum and it is used by the surgeon in the diagnosis of dislocations and other injuries of the hip-joint. The great trochanter of the femur may be felt at a point about six inches distal to the highest part of the crest of the ilium. It can be seen in thin subjects, but it does not form so projecting a feature of this region as might be expected from an in- spection of the skeleton, because the thick tendon of the glutseus medius is inserted into its lateral surface, and it is covered also by the aponeurotic insertion of the glutreus maximus. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions.—(i) From the posterior superior spine of the ilium in a curved direction along the crest of the ilium, as far forwards as the position of the body will permit; (2) from the posterior extremity of this curved incision obliquely downward and medially to the middle line of the sacral region, and then perpendicularly to the tip of the coccyx ; (3) from the tip of the coccyx obliquely distally and laterally over the back of the thigh, to the junction of the upper with the middle third of the posterior border of the lateral area of the thigh. A large flap of skin is thus marked out, and this must be raised from the subjacent superficial fascia and thrown laterally. On the right side of the body the dissector begins at the crest of the ilium and works distally and anteriorly ; whilst on the left side he commences over the coccyx and works upwards and anteriorly. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—-The superficial fascia is now exposed, and it is seen to partake of the same characters as the corresponding layer of fascia in other parts of the body (p. 5). It presents, however, certain special peculiarities. It is much more heavily laden with fat—more particularly so in the female; it thickens over the proximal and distal margins of the glutreus maximus, and it becomes tough, elastic, and stringy over the ischial tuberosity, so as to form a most efficient cushion upon which this bony i)romin- ence rests while the body is in the sitting posture. Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 83).—The superficial fascia formsGLUT^.AL REGION 219 a bed in which the cutaneous nerves ramify before they enter the skin. In this region Lumbar nerves Cutaneous branches of the i2th thoracic and ilio-hypogastric' nerve the cutaneous nerves are very numerous, and they are derived from a great variety of sources. Some proceed from the posterior branches of the spinal nerves, whilst others are given off from the anterior of the spinal nerves. From the posterior branches there are usually six—three from the sacral nerves, and three from the lumbar nerves. The three sacral 7ierves reach the surface by piercing the glutaeus maximus muscle close to its origin from the sacrum and coc- cyx. They are usually of small size and pierce the muscle in a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. The largest is found opposite the lowest piece of the sacrum, the highest about an inch above this, and the lowest about the same distance below it. Owing to the coarseness of the muscular fasciculi of the glutoeus maximus between which they appear, they are somewhat difficult to find. In looking for them, it is best to cut right down through both superficial and deep fascise, so as to secure them as they emerge from the muscle. Sacral nerves. Perforating cutaneous" Branches from N. cutaneus femoris . posterior N. cutaneus femoris. lateralis Long perineal' N. cutaneus femoris posterior" Medial cutaneous (O.T. internal)" N. cutaneus femoris lateralis Medial cutaneous (O.T. internal)" Nervus Anastomoticus_ peronaeus N. cutaneus femoris til posterior Nervus cutaneus sura; inedittlis (O.T. ramus- communicans tihiali.s) Nervus suralis (O.T. short saphenous) Ramus calcaneus medialis Fig. 83.—Cutaneous Nerves on the posterior aspect of the Lower Extremity. The three lumbar nerves are easily found. They crossINFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 20 the crest of the ilium at a point corresponding to the lateral limit of the attachment of the sacro-spinalis to the innominate bone. They pass distally and slightly anteriorly in the superficial fascia, and run in different planes, the larger trunks being placed deeper than the smaller branches. They communicate with one another and with the sacral nerves. A few twigs may be followed as far as the greater trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which come from the atiterior branches of the spinal nerves may be classified under three headings —(i) those which pass distally over the crest of the ilium; (2) those which pass dorsally over the insertion of the glutseus maximus into the fascia lata; (3) those which turn proximally round the distal margin of the glutseus maximus. The nerves which cross the crest of the ilium are—(i) ramus cutaneus lateralis of the ilio-hypogastric nerve \ and (2) the ramus cutaneus lateralis of the last thoracic nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric 7ierve pierces the external oblique muscle close to its insertion into the ilium. It usually crosses the iliac crest opposite a tubercle which projects from the lateral lip of the crest, about two and a half inches from the anterior superior spine, but it may emerge at any point between this tubercle and the anterior border of the iliac origin of the latissimus dorsi. The lateral cutaneous bra^ich of the last thoracic nerve pierces the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall, a short distance in front of the branch of the ilio-hypogastric, at a point situated from one to two inches above the iliac crest. Both nerves^ after crossing the iliac crest, run distally in the thick superficial fascia over the upper part of the glutseus medius, and spread out into a great number of fine twigs, which ramify over the insertion of the glutseus maximus. Some of them reach distally as far as the level of the greater trochanter. The nerves which pass dorsally over the insertion of the glutaeus maximus are a few small twigs of the posterior branches of the lateral cutaneous fierve of the thigh. They are found above the level of the greater trochanter. The cutaneous twigs which hook round the distal margin of the glutseus maximus muscle, to reach the skin over this region, are a few offsets from the posterior cutaneotis nerve of the thigh and the perforating cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve. The former appear lateral to the tuberosity of the ischium, and are accompanied, in some cases, by twigs2 2 1 GLUT/EAL REGION from the inferior gluteal artery. The latter comes into view medial to the ischial tuberosity, and is accompanied by small branches of the inferior htemorrhoidal artery. These nerves can most readily be found by everting the lower border of the glutxus maxinius ; but in doing this, care must be taken not to injure the trunk of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, as it passes from under cover of the glutieus ma.ximus and runs vertically down the thigh. Deep Fascia.—The deep fascia of the gluteal region is brought into view by removing what remains of the super- ficial fascia. The fatty tissue should be cleared away not only from the deep fascia as it is spread over the glutaeus maximus, but also from the more anteriorly situated area. In the latter situation a dense, opaque, pearly white apo- neurosis is by this means exposed. This covers the anterior part of the glutcCus medius, and is firmly attached above to the crest of the ilium. It stands in marked contrast with the deep fascia over the glutasus maximus, which is thin and transparent. Subsequent dissection will show that the dense fascia over the anterior part of the glutaeus medius, when it reaches the anterior border of the glutaeus maximus, splits into two lamellae which enclose the great glutaeus between them. Dissection.—Now proceed to clean the glutKus maximus muscle. If it is the right limb, begin at the anterior or upper margin of the muscle ; but if it is the left, commence the dissection at the posterior or distal border. In undertaking this dissection, the dissector must keep clearly before him the rules which have already been laid down regarding the cleaning of a muscle:—(i) render the fibres as tense as possible by rotating the limb medially ; (2) remove the fascia in one continuous layer ; (3) always cut in the direction of the muscular fibres ; (4) define very carefully the borders of the muscle. The glutaeus maximus is a difficult muscle to clean, the fasciculi are so exceedingly coarse. To do it well it is not sufficient to remove the fascia which covers the muscle but it is necessary, at the same time, to follow, for a short distance, the septa which penetrate between the fasciculi and to remove them also. Do not remove the thick opaque fascia which covers the insertion of the muscle. The dissector of the left limb, on reaching the anterior margin of the muscle, will observe that the fascia which he holds in his hand is continuous with the strong aponeurosis which covers the glutarus medius ; and further, if he now frees the anterior border of the mu.scle from subjacent parts, he will notice that the layer of fascia upon which the glutaius maximus rests is also continuous with the same aponeurosis. In other words, he will, in this manner, be able to satisfy himself that the strong fascia which covers the anterior part of the glutreus medius splits into two layers to enclo.se the glutasus maximus. The posterior cutaneous nerve of the tliigh should be secured at once by everting the distal border of the glutxus maximus. Otherwise it is very liable to be injured in the subsequent stage ofINFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 2 2 dissection owing to its close relationship to the deep surface of the muscle. M. Glutseus Maximus.—This powerful muscle arises (i) from a narrow, rough area on the dorsum ilii, which is included External oblique Piriformis Semimembranosus Sartorius Tersor fasciae latae Reflected head of rectus femoris Straight head of rectus femoris Gemellus superior , Gemellus inferior Pectineus Biceps and semitendinosus Quadratus femoris Pyramidalis Rectus abdominis Adductor longus Gracilis Adductor brevis Fig. 84.—Lateral aspect of the Hip Bone with the Attachments of the Muscles mapped out. betw'cen the posterior curved line and the lateral lip of the crest; (2) from the sides of the lower two pieces of the sacrum and the upper three pieces of the coccyx; (3) from the entire posterior surface of the ligamentum sacrotuberosum (O.T. great sciatic); and (4) slightly from the posterior layerGLUT/EAL REGION 223 of the lumbar fascia, at the attachment of the latter to the crest of the ilium. From this extensive origin the coarse fasciculi of the muscle proceed obliquely distally and anteriorly towards the proximal portion of the femur, but only a comparatively small proportion of them receive direct insertion into that bone. The greater part of the muscle is inserted into the fascia lata. To be more precise, we may say that the whole of the fibres belonging to the proximal half of the muscle, and the superficial stratum of fibres of the distal half of the muscle, are inserted into the fascia lata. The deeper fibres of the distal half of the muscle, however, are directly attached to the glutccal tuberosity on the back of the femur (t.e. the ridge which extends from the greater trochanter to the linea aspera). (Fig. 78, p. 209.) The glutseus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteeal nerve. Reflection of the Glutaeus Maximus.—This is by no means an easy dissection. It is best to detach the muscle from its origin and throw it distally towards its insertion. It should be dissected completely away from the various surfaces from which it arises. By this means the general outline of the pelvis becomes more apparent, and the dissector obtains distinct bony landmarks which are most useful in enabling him to localise the various structures he is expected to expose. Let us suppose we are dealing with the left lower limb. As a preliminary step, the two borders of the muscle should be freed and the left hand gently insinuated under the fleshy mass. The muscle must, in the first instance, be detached from the ilium. When the surface on the dorsum ilii from which it springs is cleared the upper margin of the great sciatic notch is reached. Here the dissector must proceed with caution, because through this notch pass the glutreal vessels, and their branches enter the deep surface of the glutanis maximus muscle. When these are secured the muscle must be detached from the side of the sacrum, then the piriformis muscle, emerging from under cover of the sacrum, comes into sight. The muscular fibres may now be raised from the surface of the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum and separated from the side of the coccyx. In doing this, care should be taken to preserve the three sacral cutaneous nerves intact, in order that they may be sub- sequently traced to their origins. As the surface of the ligamentum sacro- tuberosum is gradually laid bare, a number of small arteries (the coccygeal branches of the inferior glutieal artery) will be seen piercing it and immediately sinking into the substance of the gluta’us maximus. These cannot be retained. It is necessary to sever them in order that the muscle may be freed. The perforating branch of the fourth sacral nerve, which winds round the distal border of the glutseus maximus near the coccyx, must also be remembered and traced to the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum which it will be seen to pierce. rhe gluUcus maximus is now completely separated from the parts from which it arises, but it cannot be thrown distally towards its insertion. It is still tied to its place by the blood-vessels and nerves which enter its deep surface. These are (i) the branches of the superficial division of the superior glutieal artery which appear at the upper border of the piriformis ;INFERIOR EXTREMITY 2 24 (2) branches of the inferior gliUical ar/erj> and the inferior gluheal nerve below the level of the piriformis. The veins may at once be removed, but the arteries and nerves must be systematically cleaned as they come into view, and traced into the substance of the glutteus maximus. Finally, to allow of the complete reflection of the glutseus maximus, these vessels and nerves must be cut, and it is advisable to leave in connection with the cut end of each a small portion of muscle-substance, in order that they may be readily recognised in the further steps of the dissection. The whole muscle may now be thrown distally and laterally, and after a little dissection an admirable view is obtained of its insertion. Piercing the distal part of this there will be seen a few small twigs of the first perforat- ing artery—a branch of the profunda femoris. In the case of the right limb the procedure adopted in reflecting the glutceus maximus is the same as detailed above, with this exception, that the dissector should begin by detaching it from the coccyx and ligamentum sacro-tuberosum and work upwards towards the ilium. Although it is recommended that the glutreus maximus should be reflected proximo-distally, it is right to mention that an equally- instructive view of the subjacent parts may be obtained by detaching it from its insertion and throwing it upwards towards its origin. The senior , student would do well to adopt this method. Bursae Mucosae under cover of the Glutaeus Maximus.—Tivo bursa are found in relation to the insertion of the glutaeus maximus. The 07ie—a large loose sac—is interposed between the aponeurosis, into which the proximal part of the muscle is inserted, and the great trochanter of the femur. It allows the aponeurosis to play freely on the bone. The second bursa lies immediately distal and anterior to the part of the muscle which is inserted into the glutmal tuberosity of the femur. A slight touch of the knife is sufficient to open it, and then the glistening tendon of the vastus lateralis comes into view. The bursal sac intervenes between this tendon and the aponeurotic insertion of the glutaeus maximus. A third bursa is situated between the glutaeus maximus and the tuber ischiadicum. In all probability this has already been explored by the dissector of the perineum. It lies over the lower aspect of the bony prominence, and is interposed j more between the tough superficial fascia and the bone, than 1 between the muscle and the bone. I Dissection.—On the second day the dissector undertakes the dissection 1 of the remaining structures which are displayed by the reflection of the t glutreus maximus. The vessels and nerves which have been ]iartially exposed in the previous day’s dissection must now be followed towards I the pelvis, and the remaining vessels and nerves, together with the muscles, li must be defined and cleaned by removing the loose areolar tissue which li covers and passes between them. , Parts under cover of the Glutseus Maximus. — Pro- ; ceeding, from the dorsum ilii distally, towards the tuber |glut^:al region 225 ischiadicum and the posterior area of the thigh, the following muscles may be recognised: —(i) The gluteus medius lying over the greater part of the dorsum ilii; (2) the piriformis, issuing from the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen; Inferior glutaeal nerve Posterior cutaneous nerve of thigh perficial part of superior glut.-eal artery Superior gluteal nerve ^ )eep part of sup. f glutzeal artery "j '■ Nerve to quadratus Pudendal nerve Inferior glutasal artery Internal pudendal artery ^erve to obturator internus pemellus superior Obturator internus ^Oemellus inferior ySacro-tuberous ligament / Obturator externus •' Quadratus femoris Tuber ischiadicum Gluixus medius ip'e to tensor fascia; lata;, lateral circumflex artery Great trochanter'^ Quadratus femoris - ^ledial cirt^umflex artery-^' A<lductor magnu< \ '\ .idductor magnus \ Semimembranosus .^emitendinosus Bleeps femoris ‘ ‘l’" Maxin.us, t»us Mcclius, and the (Quadratus Femoris have been renected. 1ml 11^^ obturator internus coming through the mall sciatic foramen, with the gemellus superior attached to horrr''!'7''x gemellus inferior to its distal quadratus femoris passing from the tuber icum to the proximal end of the femur; (5) the proximal VOL. 1—L5226 INFERIOR EXTREMITY border of the adductor magnus. By separating the con- tiguous margins of the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris from each other, and looking into the interval between them, the tendon of the obturator externus will be seen as it passes round the neck of the femur to reach the fossa trochanterica. By dealing similarly with the adjacent margins of the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus, the lesser trochanter of the femur will be exposed. Lastly, the origin of the hamstring muscles, from the tuber ischiadicum, and the proximal part of the vastus lateralis, arising from the root of the greater trochanter of the femur on its lateral aspect, should be noted. In each interval formed by the adjacent margins of the muscles exposed, blood-vessels and nerves, or blood-vessels alone, are to be found. Before proceeding to the dissection of these, however, it is well that the student should renew his acquaintance with the skeletal peculiarities of this region. Let him obtain a dried pelvis with the ligaments in situ, and study carefully the position and boundaries of the great and small sciatic notches, and the manner in which they are converted into foramina by the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sciatic) and ligamentum sacro- spinosum (O.T. small sciatic). Through these foramina important structures issue from the interior of the pelvis into the glutmal region. In the interval between the contiguous margins of the glutteus medius and the piriformis muscles, the superior glufatal artery and nerve issue from the pelvis through the great sciatic foramen. In the interval between the piriformis and the gemellus superior two arteries and six nerves must be looked for, as they emerge through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen, viz. :— The huge sciatic nerve, together with the inferior glutteal artery and posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, proceed distally in the hollow between the greater trochanter of the femur and the tuber ischiadicum. In the interval between the gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris, the small ascending terminal Iminch of the Nerves, Arteries, { f I. A. glutma inferior. ( 2. A. pudenda interna. ’ I. N. ischiadicus. 2. N. cutaneus femoris posterior. 3. N. pudendus. 4. N. glutivus inferior. 5. Nerve to the obturator internus. 6. Nerve to the quadratus femoris.GLUT/EAL REGION 227 medial circumflex artery will be seen, whilst between the con- tiguous margins of the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus the larger transverse terminal branch of the same artery makes its appearance. Nervus Glutaeus Inferior (Inferior Glutseal Nerve).—This is the nerve of supply to the glutaeus maximus. It springs from the sacral plexus, and enters the glutseal region through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. During the reflection of the glutaeus maximus it has been seen to break up into numerous twigs which enter the deep surface of the muscle. Arteria Glutaea Inferior (O.T. Sciatic).—The inferior glutaeal artery, a branch of the hypogastric artery (O.T. in- ternal iliac), issues from the pelvis, through the great sciatic foramen below the piriformis muscle, and proceeds distally, with the sciatic nerve, under cover of the glutaeus maximus. Finally, reaching the distal border of that muscle, it is continued as a fine cutaneous twig to the posterior aspect of the thigh, in company with the posterior cutaneous nerve. It gives off numerous branches in the glutaeal region. Of these the large muscular offsets to the glutaeus maximus, and the cutaneous twigs that accompany the branches of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh which turn round the distal border of that muscle, have been already studied. The following three branches remain to be examined:—(i) the coccygeal branch, which passes medially between the ligamentum sacrotuber- osum and ligamentum sacrospinosum to reach the integument and fascia in the region of the coccyx; a number of twigs derived from this branch have been previously noticed piercing the ligamentum sacrotuberosum and ending in the glutaeus maximus; (2) a. comitans n. ischiadici, a minute artery, which runs distally on the sciatic nerve and finally penetrates into its substance; (3) the artery to the (jtmdratus femoris, which accompanies the nerve to that muscle; it will be found lying on the hip bone under cover of the sciatic nerve. In a well-injected body the anastomosis between the inferior glutaeal artery, the two terminal branches of the medial circumflex artery, and the first perforating artery may be made out. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic Nerve).—This cutaneous nerve arises from the sacral plexus within the pelvis. After escaping through the great sciatic I—15«INFERIOR EXTREMITY 228 foramen it extends distally, with the inferior glutseal artery, under cover of the glutteus maximus. Leaving the muscle it proceeds distally, on the back of the thigh, immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. It will afterwards be traced to the posterior aspect of the calf of the leg. In the glutseal region it gives off several cutaneous To piriformis To piriformis Sill Visceral 5JV Visceral ..Lumbo-sacral cord Superior glutseal nerve Inferior glutaeal nerve Nerve to quadratus femoris Nerve to obturator internus Sciatic nerve Common peronmal nerve ./ 'Sciatic nerve \ Tibial nerve Post. cut. N. of thigh (O.T. small sciatic) - Perineal N. and dorsal N. of penis 1 Pudeiidai Inferior haimorrhoidal nerve / nerve Perforating cutaneous nerve Nerves to levator ani Coccygeal branches Fig. 86.—Diagram of Sacral Ple.xus. branches, viz.—(i) inferior nerves of the buttock which wind round the distal border of the glutceus maximus to supply a limited area of the skin of the buttGck; (2) a few twigs to the skin to the medial region of the thigh ; and (3) the perineal branches of which one is known as the long perineal nerve (O.T. long pudendal). This branch turns medially round the origin of the hamstring muscles to reach the perineum.229 GLUT^.AL REGION Nervus IscMadicus (O.T. Great Sciatic Nerve).—The sciatic nerve, the largest nerve in the body, comes from the sacral plexus, and enters the glutseal region through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. At first it has the form of a flattened band, but soon it becomes oval or round, as seen in section. Covered by the glutaeus maximus, the sciatic nerve traverses the gluteeal region in the interval between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuber ischiadicum. Proximo- distally it lies on the innominate bone (at the lower margin of the great sciatic notch), the tendon of the obturator internus with the two gemelli muscles, the quadratus femoris, and the adductor magnus. In this region it does not, as a rule, give off any branch, but occasionally the nerves to one or more of the hamstring muscles issue from the main trunk as high as the level of the quadratus femoris. The sciatic nerve frequently escapes from the pelvis in the form of two trunks (the two divisions into which it divides lower down, viz. the tibial and the common peroneal) which enclose between them a portion of the piriformis muscle. Dissection.—The student should flex the knee and raise it on a block in order to relax the sciatic nerve. By pulling this great nerve-trunk laterally, the dissector will expose the nerve to the quadratus femoris lying directly upon the hip bone. Medial to this he will find the pudendal vessels and nerve with the nerve to the obturator internus crossing the spine of the ischium. These structures require to be carefully cleaned. The twig from the nerve to the obturator internus to the gemellus superior is especially liable to injury. The dissection will be improved by scraping off the periosteum from the small area of bone which is in relation to the above-mentioned vessels and nerves. Internal Pudendal Vessels and Pudendal Nerve (O.T. Internal Pudic), and the Nerve to the Obturator Internus.— These structures emerge from the great sciatic foramen, below the piriformis, and are only exposed in the present dis- section for a very short part of their course. They pass out of view by entering the small sciatic foramen. The tierve to the obturator internus is placed most laterally. It lies on the base of the ischial spine, and furnishes a twig to the gemellus superior. The internal pudendal artery’, with a companion vein on each side, crosses the tip of the spine. The pudendal nerve is placed most medially, and lies on the ligamentum sacro-spinosum close to its attachment to the spine. In some cases, however, the pudendal nerve unites in a plexiform manner with the nerve to the obturator internus, so that the whole, or a part, of it may lie lateral to the pudendal vessels. 1—15 6230 INFERIOR EXTREMITY Small Lateral Rotator Muscles of the Thigh.—Under this heading are included the piriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. They are all inserted into or in the neighbourhood of the greater trochanter of the femur, and they are applied to the posterior surface of the capsule of the hip-joint. The piriformis arises within the pelvis from the three middle pieces of the sacrum, and slightly from the upper margin of the great sciatic notch of the hip bone. The sacral origin cannot be seen at present, but the iliac origin should be made out. After passing through the great sciatic foramen, the muscle is directed distally, laterally, and anteriorly. Its fleshy belly rapidly tapers and ends in a rounded tendon, which crosses superficial to the common tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli, and is inserted into a small impression on the highest part of the greater tro- chanter of the femur (Fig. 75, p. 202). It is closely adherent to the subjacent obturator tendon for some distance. The piriformiis is supplied by branches from the first and second sacral nerves. The obturator mternus and gemelli constitute, together, a tricipital muscle with one large intra-pelvic belly (obturator internus), and two small extra-pelvic bellies (gemellus superior and inferior). The common tendon of this tricipital muscle is inserted into an impression on the upper part of the greater trochanter of the femur immediately anterior and medial to the insertion of the piriformis (Fig. 75, p. 202). The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium at the upper margin of the small sciatic notch. Its fibres pass laterally along the superior border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and are inserted obliquely into that tendon. The gemellus inferior arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, at the lower margin of the small sciatic notch, and is in- serted into the distal border of the obturator tendon, in a similar manner to the gemellus superior. Close to their origins the gemelli meet under cover of the obturator tendon, and form a fleshy bed, on which it lies; near the trochanter the fibres of the gemelli overlap the obturator tendon, and tend to cover its superficial surface. The tendon of the obturator internus should be freed from the gemelli for some little distance from its point of exit from the small sciatic foramen. It may then be divided and231 GLUT/EAL REGION raised from the bed in which it lies. Its deep surface will be seen to consist of four or five rounded slips separated by deep grooves or furrows. The surface of the small sciatic notch on which this tendon glides is coated with smooth cartilage, which is raised into ridges corresponding to the grooves on the surface of the tendon. A large bursa mucosa is interposed, which still further facilitates the play of the tendon round the notch. The m. quadmtus femoris lies between the gemellus inferior and the adductor magnus. It is a fiat oblong muscle which arises from the lateral border of the tuber ischiadicum, and proceeds horizontally to gain insertion into the quadrate tubercle, and into a line which extends distally from it, on the back of the femur, for two inches (Fig. 78, p. 209). Dissection.—The nerve to the quadratus femoris should now be traced to its termination. This can be done by reflecting the two gemelli muscles anterior to which it runs. When followed as far as the inferior gemellus, care should be taken to secure the little twig it gives to that muscle. Lastly, reflect the quadratus femoris by detaching it from the femur and throwing it towards the ischial tuberosity. By this dissection not only is the whole length of the nerve to the quadratus femoris exposed, but also a consider- able portion of the posterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint is laid bare ; further, the obturator externus muscle, the termination of the medial circumflex artery, and the insertion of the ilio-psoas are brought into view. The posterior part of the capsule of the hip-joint which is exposed consists largely of circularly arranged fibres. Nerve to the Quadratus Femoris.—This small nerve runs distally on the hip bone and passes successively anterior to the following structures : the sciatic nerve, the gemellus superior, the tendon of the obturator internus, the gemellus inferior. It gives the nerve of supply to the gemellus inferior and a twig to the hip-joint, and ends by sinking into the deep surface of the quadratus femoris. M. Obturator Externus.—This muscle can now be seen winding round the neck of the femur and finally ending in a rounded tendon which is implanted into the fossa trochan- terica of the femur (Fig. 78, p. 209). Its origin has already been examined. Arteria Circumflexa Femoris Medialis (O.'l'. Internal Cir- cumflex Artery).—This vessel comes to an end at the proximal border of the adductor magnus by dividing into its ascending and transverse terminal branches. The ascending branch runs obliquely proximally and laterally, anterior to the quadratus femoris and upon the posterior surface of the obturator ex-232 INFERIOR EXTREMITY ternus. Its terminal branches ramify in the neighbourhood of the fossa trochanterica, where they anastomose with twigs from the inferior and superior and glutaeal arteries. The transverse branch passes pbsteriorly, between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus, and enters the hamstring muscles. It anastomoses with the terminal twig of the middle division of the lateral circumflex artery, which in a well-injected subject will be noticed appearing from amidst the fibres of the proximal part of the vastus lateralis. An arterial circle is thus com- pleted around the proximal part of the femur which com- municates proximally with the inferior glutasal artery and distally with the first perforating artery. This series of in- osculations is sometimes spoken of as the crucial a?iastomosis of the thigh. Dissection.—The dissector has now examined all the structures in the gluteal region which lie distal to the level of the piriformis. He should, in the next place, turn his attention to that portion of the dissection which lies proximal to the level of that muscle. Here are found a number of parts in close relation to the dorsum ilii. These are the glutreus medius, the glutteus minimus, and the tensor fascire latte, together with the blood-vessel and nerve which supply them, viz. the superior glutseal artery and the superior glutteal nerve. The hinder part of the glutteus medius muscle is covered by the glutteus maximus. Its anterior border is overlapped by the tensor fascite latte, and the intermediate area is invested by the dense aponeurotic layer already referred to. This fascia must be removed in order that a satis- factory view of the muscle may be obtained. It will then become evident that numerous fleshy fibres arise from the deep surface of the fascia. M. Glutseus Medius.—The glutteus medius arises from that part of the dorsum ilii which is bounded above by the posterior curved line and the anterior four-fifths of the crest of the ilium, and below by the anterior curved line (Fig. 84, p. 222); it also derives fibres from the strong fascia which covers it. The fibres converge to form a flattened band, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, which is inserted into an oblique line on the lateral aspect of the greater trochanter of the femur, and into the surface immediately above it. The gluta2us medius muscle is supplied by the superior glutceal nerve. Dissection.—The gluteeus medius must now be reflected. This dis- section is complicated by the fact that in its proximal and anterior pap the glutceus medius is partially blended with the subjacent glutteus mini- mus and the tensor fasciee lata;. Begin by rotating the limb medially. Then seizing the glutwus maximus with the left hand, pull it laterally, and divide the glistening aponeurosis into which it is inserted for two or three233 CxLUT^AL REGION inches in a distal direction. This will bring very conspicuously into view the upper part of the vastus lateralis. Next, grasp the cut edge of the fascia lata from which the glutKus maximus has been separated, and, dragging it forcibly laterally, dissect in the interval between it and the glutteus medius. The tensor fasciae latae, which is intimately associated with this portion of the fascia lata, is pulled laterally with it, and the deep surface of that muscle, clothed by a strong deep lamella of fascia, comes into view. Very little dissection is required to expose its nerve of supply—a branch from the superior glutseal—which emerges from the anterior border of the glutasus minimus, and sinks into its deep surface. An artery will also be noticed ramifying on the deep surface of the tensor fasciae latae ; this is the ascending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. Seeing that the anterior borders of the glutaeus medius and glutaeus minimus are adherent, it is welt to separate them from behind forward by introducing the fingers between their posterior borders. When the glutaeus medius is completely isolated, it may be divided about two inches above the greater trochanter of the femur, and the two portions thrown respectively proximally and distally. A small bursa, between the muscle and the upper part of the greater trochanter, will thus be brought into view, and the exact insertion of the tendon will be rendered evident. As the proximal part of the muscle is raised, a number of vessels and nerves between it and the glutaeus minimus will be exposed. These must be carefully cleaned and followed to their destinations. They are derived from the superior glutreal artery and nerve. Arteria Glutaea Superior (O.T. Glutaeal Artery).—This is a large vessel which springs from the hypogastric artery and escapes from the pelvis, through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen, above the level of the piriformis. Immediately after its exit, it divides into a superficial and a deep division. The superficial division has been already seen during the reflection of the glutteus maximus. It is distributed to the deep surface of that muscle, and is placed between it and the glutaeus medius. The deep division bifurcates close to its origin into a superior and an inferior branch; both of these lie between the glutaeus medius and minimus. The superior branch follows accurately the anterior curved line on the dorsum ilii, and, at the anterior superior spine, terminates by anastomosing with the superficial and deep circumflex iliac arteries, and with the ascending branch of the lateral circumflex artery. The latter has already been noticed passing proximally under cover of the tensor fasciae latae. The mferior branch runs distally and anteriorly towards the greater trochanter. It gives twigs to the two glutaeal muscles between which it lies, and some terminal offsets to the hip-joint. Nervus Glutaeus Superior (O.T. Superior Glutaeal Nerve).— The superior glutaeal nerve emerges from the pelvis in company with the superior glutaeal artery, and passing anteriorly, betweenINFERIOR EXTREMITY 234 the gluteeus medius and minimus, gives branches to both these muscles. Its terminal branch pierces the anterior fibres of the glutseus minimus, and ends in the tensor fasciae latae. M. Glutseus Minimus.—This muscle arises from the broad area on the dorsum ilii, which is included between the anterior and inferior curved lines (Fig. 84, p. 2 2 2). The muscular fibres pass gradually into an aponeurotic tendon, which covers the superficial surface of the distal part of the muscle. This tendon, as it passes distally, narrows into a flattened band, which is in- serted into a special impression on the anterior aspect of the greater trochanter of the femur (Fig. 75, p. 202). It is in- timately connected, near its insertion, with the capsule of the hip-joint. The glutteus minimus is supplied by the superior glutccal 7terve. Parts under cover of the Glutseus Minimus.—The last step in the dissection of the glutEeal region consists in the reflection of the glutseus minimus muscle. It must be detached from its origin and thrown distally. Three objects are revealed by this dissection—(i) the capsular liga- ment of the hip-joint; (2) a bursa which intervenes between the tendon of the muscle and the greater trochanter; (3) the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. The capsular ligavmit will be seen to be only loosely attached to the posterior aspect of the neck of the femur, but very firmly to the acetabular brim. The bin-sa nmcosa should be opened and examined. The 7'eflected tendon of the rectus fe7)wris occupies a groove situated just above the upper margin of the acetabulum. It is partially concealed by some fibres of the capsular ligament, which are prolonged upwards over it. It should be cleaned by repeatedly drawing the point of the knife over it in a direction parallel to its fibres. FOSSA POPLITEA (POPLITEAL SPACE) It is well to dissect the fossa poplitea before the muscles of the posterior region of the thigh are disturbed. In this way the boundaries of the space are maintained in position during the examination of the structures which lie within it. During the dissection of the popliteal fossa the following structures are brought into view:—235 FOSSA POPLITEA 1. Superficial fascia. 2. The small saphenous vein. 3. The posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. 4. Popliteal fascia. (Biceps femoris. Semitenclinosus. Semimembranosus. Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. 6. The tibial and common peroneal nerves and their branches. 7. The popliteal artery and vein and their branches. 8. A few lymph glands. g. A slender branch from the obturator nerve. 10. The popliteus muscle. Surface Anatomy. — The space which lies immediately behind the knee-joint, and between the hamstring muscles and the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is termed the ham. It is depressed when the knee is flexed, but forms a slight prominence when the joint is fully extended. By flexing the knee and pressing deeply into the interval between the hamstrings, the (injected) popliteal artery may be distinguished, and its pulsations can usually be felt in this situation in the living subject. With the limb in the same position, the tendon of the biceps femoris, on the lateral side of the space, is distinctly seen, as it passes distally to its insertion into the head of the fibula. The head of the fibula lies posterior and a little distal to the most projecting part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, and by pressing deeply between the fibula and the lateral condyle of the femur, the cord-like collateral fibular ligament can be distinguished. When the knee-joint is flexed and the limb is abducted, the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus may be detected on the medial side. It should be traced distally to the adductor tubercle. This bony projection is placed on the femur at the point where the medial supracondylar ridge joins the proximal and posterior part of the medial condyle, and is an important landmark, inasmuch as it indicates the level or the plane of junction between the distal epiphysis and the body of the femur. The common peroneal nerve (O.T. external popliteal) may be felt as it crosses the lateral side of the neck of the fibula, just before it pierces the peronasus longus muscle. In muscular subjects, on the upper part of the back of the leg, the two heads of the gastrocnemius form prominent objects. The posterior region of the thigh presents a smooth.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 236 rounded surface. In thin subjects indications of the bellies of the hamstring muscles may be seen. Eeflection of Skin.—Before beginning the dissection a good-sized block should be placed under the knee so as to support the limb and render the muscles which bound the fossa tense. Incisions—(i) a vertical incision along the medial line of the limb, beginning about five inches proximal to, and terminating about four inches distal to, the bend of the knee ; (2) a transverse incision at the proximal end of the vertical incision ; (3) a transverse incision at the distal extremity of the vertical incision. The two transverse incisions should extend almost half-way round the limb. Two flaps of skin are thus mapped out, and these must be raised and thrown, the one medially and the other laterally. Superficial Fascia—Vena Saphena Parva (O.T. External Saphenous Vein)—Branches of the Posterior Cutaneous Nerve of the Thigh (O.T. Small Sciatic).—The fatty layer upon which the skin rests is now brought into view, and the cutaneous nerves and vessels must be secured. First look for a small nerve—a branch of the posterior cutaneous imue of the thigh—which passes distally over the space near the middle line, and, when this is found, dissect out the small saphenous vem. The vein ascends in the middle line of the leg, and when traced proximally it will be found to disappear from view by piercing the deep fascia, and entering the lower part of the popliteal fossa. The ter7ninal braiich of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh pierces the popliteal fascia at the lower part of the fossa, where it will be seen lying close to the small saphenous vein. In removing the superficial fascia care must be taken of the deep popliteal fascia, which is somewhat thin. Fascia Poplitea (Popliteal Fascia).—Although thin, the deep fascia possesses considerable strength owing to the transverse fibres which are interwoven amidst its proper aponeurotic fibres. In removing this fascia the dissector will notice that it is firmly attached on each side to the tendons of the muscles which bound the fossa poplitea. Proximally, it is continuous with the fascia lata of the thigh. Before opening up the fossa poplitea the dissector is recommended to read the two following paragraphs, which deal generally with its contents and boundaries. Contents of the Fossa.—The principal objects within the fossa poplitea are the popliteal aiiery and m>/, with their branches and tributaries, and the iibial and common peronealFOSSA POPLITRA 237 nerves. The artery and vein are placed deeply in the space, and in close contact with each other—the vein being superficial to the artery throughout. The tibial tierve and the common peroneal tierve lie more superficially. With the e.xception of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh which descends immediately subjacent to the deep fascia, the tibial nerve is the most superficial structure in the fossa poplitea. It lies superficial to the popliteal vessels, and is readily found by separating the adipose tissue in the middle line of the fossa. The common peroneal tierve will be exposed by dissecting along the proximo-lateral boundary of the space. It lies under shelter of the biceps femoris muscle. Both of these large nerves give off branches, of which the majority are easily secured and readily followed. The articular twigs, however, are very delicate, and great care is required in their dissection. In intimate relation to the popliteal artery is the geniculate branch of the obturator nerve. It descends in close apposition with the coats of the artery. As the fat is being cleared out from the fossa the dissector will not fail to observe some small lymph glands in relation to the great vessels. Boundaries. — The fossa poplitea is diamond - shaped. Above and laterally it is bounded by the biceps fe7noris muscle; whilst above and medially are the se??iitendinosus and the setni- membranosus muscles., the former lying upon the posterior surface of the latter. On the medial side of the knee, anterior to the semimembranosus, the gracilis, the sartorius, and the tendon of the adductor 7>iagnus, can be exposed. The fossa is bounded, below, by the converging heads of the gastroc7iemius. In the formation of the distal and lateral boundary, the lateral head of the gastrocnemius will be seen to be assisted by the small plantaris tnuscle. Dissection.—In cleaning the muscles which bound the fossa poplitea there are certain points to be attended to. In the case of the lateral head of the gastrocnemius, care must be taken not to remove the anastomotic tierve, which passes distally and medially upon its surface. In the groove between the heads of this muscle will be seen the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. Further, the dissector must not overlook the bursa mucosa which intervenes between the tendon of the semimembranosus and the medial head of the gastrocnemius. This bursa sometimes communicates with a second bursa mucosa, which will be brought into view by lifting the medial head of the gastrocnemius from the medial condyle of the femur. The dissection may be carried in an anterior direction on the medial aspect of the limb a little beyond the medial boundary of the fossa, in order to expose the saphenous branch of the arteria genu suprema, the238 INFERIOR EXTREMITY saphenous nerve, great saphenous vein, and the posterior division of the medial cutaneous branch of the femoral nerve. The saphenous nerve, accompanied by the ramus saphenus of the arieria genu suprema, will be found under cover of the sartorius. They afterwards come to the surface at its posterior border. The great saphenous vem ascends on the surface M. semimembranosus M. biceps femoris M. semitendinosus N. peronseus communis (O.T. ext. popliteal) A. genu superior lateralis Common trunk of n. cuta- neus surae lateralis and ramus anastomoticus peronmus M. plantaris M. gastrocnemius caput laterale Tendon ofM. adductor magnusi A. poplitea N. tibialis (int. poplitea!) A. genu superior medialis Cut end of v. saphena parva Medial cond5'le of femur Tendon of m. semitendinosus M. gastrocnemius, caput medi Tendon of M. gracilis V. poplitea. N. cutaneus surae medialis (O.T. ramus com- municans tibialis) Nerve to M. popliteus Tendon of M. plantaris Nerve to M. soleus M. soleus Fig. 87.—Dissection of the Left Popliteal Fossa. The upper boundaries have been pulled apart and the aponeurosis into which the two heads of the gastrocnemius is attached has been split and the heads have been displaced to their respective sides. of that muscle, whilst the posterior division of the medial cutaneous nerve of the thigh (O.T. internal cutaneous) courses distally along the posterior border of the same muscle, and comes to the surface a short distance posterior to the saphenous nerve. Properly speaking, these structures belong to the thigh and they have already been seen in the dissection of its medial region (p. 198). When the boundaries of the fossa are thoroughlyFOSSA POPLITI-.A 239 defined and cleaned, the contents should be dissected by removing the soft fat which surrounds them. The dissection of the fossa should be carried out over the entire area at the same time. The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, therefore, should be well separated from each other. It is here that the dissection becomes tedious, because the numerous branches of the nerves and vessels to the muscles on the back of the leg require time and care for their dissection. The floor of the fossa must now be cleaned. Scrape the fatty tissue from the popliteal surface of the femur with the handle of the knife. It is during this stage of the dissection that the genicular branches of the popliteal artery are liable to injury, as they lie in close contact with the floor. Be especially carefiil not to injure the medial artery of the knee which pierces the posterior part of the capsule of the joint, and the superior arteries of the knee which wind round the femur, immediately pro.ximal to the condyles. The fascia covering the popliteus muscle should be left in position. The Fossa Poplitea as seen in a Section through the Frozen Knee.— The diamond-shaped space on the back of the knee-joint which is brought into view by dissection, differs widely from the condition which is observed when transverse sections are made through this part of the frozen limb (Fig. 88). Before the integuments and fasciae are removed all the parts are tightly braced together, and the fossa poplitea is merely represented by a small intermuscular interval between the lower parts of the hamstring muscles. The fossa in this condition is rather under an inch wide at its broadest part. The popliteal artery, therefore, as it traverses the space, is covered by muscles throughout its whole course, with the exception of a very small part immediately above the knee-joint. Floor of the Fossa.-—The floor is formed from proximo- distally by—(i) the planum popliteum of the femur; (2) the oblique popliteal ligament of the knee-joint; and (3) by the strong fascia which covers the popliteus muscle. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic).— This nerve enters the fossa poplitea at its proximal angle, and proceeds distally, immediately subjacent to the fascia poplitea. It gives one or two twigs through the fascia to the skin, and finally pierces the fascia in the distal part of the fossa. Its terminal twigs are distributed to the*skin over the proximal part of the calf of the leg. Nervus Tibialis (O.T. Internal Popliteal Nerve).—d'his nerve enters the popliteal fossa, by emerging from under cover of the biceps femoris, and runs distally so as to bisect the fossa longitudinally. It is the larger of the two terminal branches of the sciatic nerve, and it arises about the middle of the thigh. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle it leaves the fossa poplitea and passes into the posterior region of the leg. The superficial position of the tibial nerve has already been referred to. At first upon the lateral side of the popliteal vessels it crosses them superficially, and in the distal part ofINFERIOR EXTREMITY 240 the fossa it is placed upon their medial side. Its branches may be classified into cutaneous, muscular, and articular. The n. cutaneus surce f?iedialis is its cutaneous branch which arises about the middle of the fossa, and proceeds distally in the furrow between the two heads of the gastrocnemius. It will afterwards be seen to unite with the peroneal anastomotic nerve, a little distal to the middle of the calf of the leg, to form the sural nerve. The muscular branches supply both heads of the gastro- cnemius, the plantaris, the soleus, and the popliteus : they Bursa prepatellaris V. Vastus medialis S. Sartorius. S.M. Semimem- branosus. G. 1. Medial head of gastro- cnemius. G.E. Lateral head of gastro- Popliteal arterj* Popliteal vein N. tibialis (O.T. int. popliteal) N. peronaius communis (O.'J'. ext. popliteal) Fig. 88.—Transverse section through the Fossa Poplitea of the Right Lower Extremity. come off in the distal part of the fossa. The branch to the popliteus requires special notice. It arises more distally than the others, and crosses the superficial surface of the popliteal artery to reach the lateral side of that vessel. It then runs distally on the posterior surface of the popliteus muscle, and gains the anterior surface by winding round the distal border. This will be better seen when the muscle itself is dissected. The articular branches are three in number. They are given off by the tibial nerve in the proximal part of the fossa, and they accompany the middle artery of the knee and the two medial genicular arteries. That which accompanies the inferior medial artery is larger than the other two, and canFOSSA POPLITEA 241 ^ be easily discovered as it runs along the proximal border of the ' popliteus muscle. J Nervus Peronaeus Communis (O.T. External Popliteal).— * This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the sciatic Superficial fascia Deep fascia V. saphena magna Popliteus Medial head of m. gastrocnemius (cut across) Deep fascia ^ V. saphena parva Semitendinosus Semimembranosus Biceps femoris I>ateral head of gastrocnemius (cut across) N. cutaneus sura; mcdialis (O.T. ramus communicans tibialis) Gracilis Sartorius A. genu superior medialis Popliteal vessels Bursa between capsule of knee and tendon of semi- membranosus Semimembranosus Dig. popliteum obliquum A. genu inferior medialis Semitendinosus N. tibialis (O.T. int. popliteal) Origin of the N. anastomoticus peronajus N. peron®us communis (O.T. ext. popliteal) Fig. 89.—Popliten.1 Fossa. The two heads of the gastrocnemius and portions of the semimembranosus and semitendinosus have been removed so as to display more fully the contents of the fossa. nerve, and it ends on the lateral side of the neck of the fibula by dividing into the deep and the superficial peroneal nerves. It does not traverse the entire length of the fossa poplitea, for it runs distally and laterally along the medial side of the biceps femoris, and leaves the fossa by following closely VOI,. I —1(5INFERIOR EXTREMITY 242 the tendon of that muscle. It next lies in the interval between the lateral head of the gastrocnemius and the biceps fernoris, and finally turning anteriorly, round the neck of the fibula, it ends under cover of the proximal part of the perongeus longus. It gives off cutaneous and articular branches. The cutaneous brariches are two in number, viz. the anasto- motic peroneal nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the calf which supplies the skin on the anterior and lateral aspect of the proximal part of the leg. They frequently take origin by a common trunk. The anastomotic peroneal nerve arises from the common peroneal trunk in the fossa poplitea, and is continued distally over the lateral head of the gastrocnemius. It ulti- mately unites with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf to form the sural nerve. The articular branches are three in number. They accompany the lateral genicular branches of the popliteal artery, and the anterior recurrent tibial branch of the anterior tibial artery. They are of small size and difficult to dissect. The recurrejit articular tterve springs from the termination of the common peroneal nerve, and will be dissected at a later stage. Arteria Poplitea (Popliteal Artery).—The popliteal artery is the terminal part of the great arterial trunk of the lower limb. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, where it is continuous with the femoral artery, and it ends, at the distal border of the popliteus muscle, by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. This division is at present hidden from view by the proximal border of the soleus muscle, but it will be exposed in the dissection of the leg. The course which the popliteal artery takes through the popliteal fossa is not straight. In the first instance it inclines obliquely distally and laterally, so as to gain the middle of the fossa between the two condyles of the femur. From this point to its termination it takes a vertical course. Through- out the greater part of its length it is placed deeply. In the proximal part of the fossa it is covered by the semimem- branosus, but when it gains the interval between the two condyles, although it lies deeply in the fat of the fossa, it is simply covered by the integuments and fascim. This part of the vessel is very short, however—not more than about an inch,—because it at once passes onwards between and anterior to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is crossed by 'FOSSA POPUTEA 243 the plantaris, and finally at its termination it sinks under cover of the proximal border of the soleus. 'I'hroughout its whole course the popliteal artery rests upon the floor of the fossa poplitea. In its upper part it is separated from the femur by some fatty tissue ; then it crosses the oblique ligament of the knee-joint; and lastly it comes into con- tact with the fascia covering the popliteus muscle. The popliteal vein is placed upon a more super- ficial plane, and crosses the artery. In the proximal part of the fossa it is placed upon the lateral side of the artery, whereas in the distal part it is situated upon its medial side. The two vessels, however, are in close association through- out, and are bound together by a dense fibrous sheath. The tibial nerve is super- ficial to both vessels, and crosses both from the lateral to the medial side; in the proximal part of the fossa it lies a short distance lateral to the vein, but in the distal part it lies on the medial side. The branches of the popliteal artery are :— Adductor magnus Popliteal vein Popliteal artery A. genu superior medialis A. genu superior lateralis A. genu inferior lateralis Head of fibula A. genu inferior medialis Popliteus Soleus Fig. 90.—Popliteal Artery and its Hranches. 1. Muscular. 2. Cutaneous. 3. Genicular. The muscular branches consist of an upper and a lower set. The upper branches are distributed to the hamstring muscles near their insertions. The lower branches, termed the sural arteries, end chiefly in the two heads of the gastrocnemius ; but twigs also go to the soleus and plantaris. The cutafieous branch, called the superficial sural, usually244 INFERIOR EXTREMITY arises from one of the sural muscular branches, and supplies the integument over the proximal part of the calf of the leg. It lies in the groove between the two heads of the gastro- cnemius with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. The genicular arteries are five in number, viz. two superior, two inferior, and one median or azygos. Arterise Genu Superiores (Superior Articular Arteries). —The two superior genicular arteries spring from the main trunk as it passes between the condyles of the femur. One proceeds from each side of the popliteal, and they are called medial and lateral, according to the direction which they take. They will be found resting directly upon the popliteal surface of the femur, and will be observed to incline slightly proxi- mally, and then to wind round the bone immediately proximal to the condyles. The lateral artery is the larger of the two. The student is apt to mistake a muscular branch for one or other of these vessels; but their close apposition to the femur should in all cases be sufficient to distinguish them. The arteria genic sicperior lateralis runs laterally under cover of the biceps femoris, and disappears from the fossa poplitea by piercing the lateral intermuscular septum and entering the substance of the vastus intermedius. The arteria genic sicperior medialis proceeds medially under cover of the semimembranosus, and leaves the fossa poplitea by passing forwards under cover of the tendon of the adductor magnus to reach the deep surface of the vastus medialis. Arterise Genu Inferiores (Inferior Articular Arteries). —The two inferior genicular arteries arise from the popliteal as it lies on the distal part of the oblique popliteal ligament. The lateral inferior genicular artery takes a transverse course laterally, under cover of the plantaris and lateral head of the gastrocnemius, to gain a point on the lateral side of the knee, immediately proximal to the head of the fibula. It proceeds onwards under cover of the fibular collateral ligament of the knee-joint. The medial inferior genicular artery takes an oblique course distally and medially, under cover of the medial head of the gastrocnemius, and along the proximal border of the popliteus muscle, to gain the medial side of the tibia below the medial condyle. There it turns forwards under cover of the tibial collateral ligament of the knee. Arteria Genu Media (O.T. Azygos Articular Artery).—This springs from the popliteal as it lies upon the oblique poplitealFOSSA POPLITEA 245 ligament of tlie knee-joint. It pierces this ligament to reach the synovial membrane. Vena Poplitea (Popliteal Vein).—The popliteal vein is formed near the distal border of the popliteus muscle by the union of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It runs proximally through the fossa poplitea, and, entering the adductor canal through the opening in the adductor magnus, it becomes the femoral vein. The relations which it presents to the popliteal artery have already been detailed. In addition to tributaries corresponding to branches of the artery, it receives the small saphenous vein, which has been seen piercing the popliteal fascia to join it. By slitting it open with the scissors the dissector w’ill see that it possesses three (sometimes four) valves in its interior. Nervus Obturatorius (Obturator Nerve).—This minute nerve will be found lying upon the medial side of the popliteal artery. Trace it proximally and it will be seen to enter the space by piercing the distal fibres of the adductor magnus; follow it distally, and it will be observed to enter the knee- joint by penetrating the oblique popliteal ligament. BACK OF THE THIGH. The dissection of the back of the thigh must be com- pleted on the fifth day. The following are the structures which are brought into view:— 1. .Superficial fascia. 2. Cutaneous nerves. 3. Deep fascia. {Biceps femoris. Semitendinosus. .Semimembranosus. Adductor magnus. S Nerves f Posterior cutaneous of thigh, f .Sciatic. 6. Arteries, Four perforating. Reflection of Skin.—A vertical incision must be made in the medial line of the thigh through the belt of skin which still encircles the limb posteriorly. The two flaps can then be reflected, the one laterally and the other medially. Superficial Fascia—Cutaneous Nerves.—In the fatty super- ficial fascia thus brought into view cutaneous twigs from four sources must be looked for—(i) along the medial line of the246 INFERIOR EXTREMITY limb a few minute branches from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh maybe discovered; (2) towards the lateral side of the thigh some twigs from the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be detected; (3) lastly, towards the ?nedial aspect of the limb endeavour to find some offsets from the medial cutaneous (O.T. internal cuta?ieous) branch of the femoral nerve and twigs of obturator nerve. Deep Fascia.—On removing the superficial fascia the deep fascia will be observed to be exceedingly thin. It must now be turned aside, and in doing this be careful of the trunk of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which passes down, in the middle line of the limb, immediately subjacent to the fascia. Hamstring Muscles.—-The hamstring muscles are three in number, viz. the biceps femoris, the semitendinosus, and the semimembranosus. They stretch from the tuberosity of the ischium to the proximal ends of the tibia and fibula. The biceps femoris is recognised from its diverging laterally to form the lateral and proximal boundary of the fossa poplitea. The sanitendinosus and semimembranosus extend distally on the medial side of the posterior aspect of the thigh, the former on the superficial aspect of the latter. In cleaning these muscles the dissector should proceed cautiously to work, otherwise he will injure the arterial and nerve twigs which enter them. The latter may be easily secured by pulling proximally the proximal part of the sciatic nerve, and at the same time gently separating the muscles with the fingers. M. Biceps Femoris (O.T. Biceps). — The biceps femoris arises by two heads—a long, or ischial, and a short, ox femoral, —^and is inserted, chiefly, into the head of the fibula. The long head arises from the ischium by a tendon which is common to it and the semitendinosus (Pig. 74, p. 200). This is implanted into the medial of the two impressions which mark the upper part of the tuber ischiadicum. Some fibres from the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum are continued into it. The short head arises from the back of the femur below the insertion of the glutfeus maximus, viz. from the lateral lip of the linea aspera, from the proximal half of the lateral supracondylar ridge, and from the lateral intermuscular septum. Its parallel fibres run obliquely distally and laterally, and join the anterior and medial surface of the tendon of insertion. This tendon, on the lateralBACK OF THE THIGH 247 aspect of the knee-joint, is split into an anterior and a Muscular branch >- of profunda artery « Second perforating ' i artery '"jJ' V. s Common peroneal nerve I’opliteai artery Anastomotic brancli of peroneal nerve Superior lateral genicular artery ■■ Medial circumflex iiiceps femoris (short head) Third perforating artery Tihial nerve Obturator nerve Popliteal artery Superior medial genicular artery ; Gastrocnemius Fig. 9t.—Dissection of the Posterior Region of the Thigh. posterior part by the fibular collateral ligament. Both are inserted into the head of the fibula anterior to the apex of I—Itii '■INFERIOR EXTREMITY 248 the head, but the posterior slip gives an aponeurotic extension to the fascia of the leg, whilst the anterior part gives off a slip (in some cases strong, but generally feeble) to the adjacent part of the lateral condyle of the tibia. M. Semitendinosus.—This muscle arises from the medial impression on the proximal part of the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon common to it and the long head of the biceps femoris, and also by fleshy fibres directly from the bone (Fig. 74, p. 200). A narrow, tendinous intersection appears on the posterior surface of the muscle about the Fig. 92.—Anterior aspect of Proximal Portions of Bones of Leg with Attachments of Muscles mapped out. middle of the thigh, and is directed obliquely distally and laterally. The muscular belly ends, in the distal third of the thigh, in a long cylindrical tendon which passes distally on the semimembranosus muscle. On the medial side of the knee the tendon bends anteriorly, crosses the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint, and, becoming flattened, is inserted into the proximal part of the medial surface of the body of the tibia, near the anterior crest of that bone and immedi- ately distal to the tendon of the gracilis. From its distal border aponeurotic fibres pass into the deep fascia of the leg; its proximal border is adherent to the gracilis for about half an inch from its insertion, and both tendons are concealed by the Lig. coUat. fibular M. biceps femori M. semitendinosusBACK OF THE THIGH 249 expanded insertion of the sartorius. A bursa mucosa lies between the three tendons and the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. M. Semimembranosus.—The semimembranosus muscle arises from the lateral impression on the proximal part of the tuberosity of the ischium (Fig. 74, p. 200). The tendon of origin is broad at its attachment to the bone, and narrows as it passes medially beneath the origin of the biceps femoris; it then expands again, and, passing distally and medially anterior to the semitendinosus, is folded in such a manner as to form a groove, in which the latter muscle lies. The tendon of insertion is chiefly inserted into the groove on the back of the medial condyle of the tibia, under cover of the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. Three additional attachments, however, require to be noted. These are effected by aponeurotic extensions from the tendon of in- sertion—(i) to the back of the knee-joint, forming a consider- able part of the oblique popliteal ligament; (2) to the surface of the popliteus muscle, which is covered by the expansion ; and (3) to the tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. Nenrus IscMadicus (O.T. Great Sciatic Nerve).—This large nerve commences at the distal border of the great sciatic foramen, and usually terminates about the middle of the thigh by dividing into the tibial nerve and common peroneal nerve. Its relations in the glutaeal region have already been studied. In the thigh it lies on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus muscle, and is covered by the long head of the biceps femoris. It gives branches to both heads of the biceps, to the semitendinosus, to the semimembranosus, and to the adductor magnus; the branches to the two last- named muscles arise by a common trunk. In a few cases it may be observed to give off a long articular twig, which enters the fossa poplitea and takes the place of the lateral superior articular nerve which, as a rule, comes from the common peroneal nerve. Dissection.—To bring the adductor magnus more fully into view, and to facilitate the cleaning of its posterior surface, and at the same time to follow the terminal parts of the perforating arteries, the hamstring muscles should be detached from their origins and thrown distally. First detach the. common tendon of the biceps femoris and semitendinosus from the tuber ischiadicum. When this has been done the exact attachment of the semimembranosus is displayed, and after this muscle has been again examined, under the present more advantageous circumstances, it also250 INFERIOR EXTREMITY must be detached from its origin and turned dislally. The posterior surface of the adductor magnus will then be fully exposed, and its attachment to the femur and its relations to the perforating arteries can be studied. Arteriae Perforantes (Perforating Arteries).—Four per- forating arteries, branches of the profunda femoris, will be found emerging from the surface of the adductor magnus muscle close to the linea aspera of the femur. They are called firsts second^ thh-d, and fourth, according to the level at which they appear from above downwards. The fourth is the terminal branch of the profunda, and makes its appearance about an inch proximal to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle through which the popliteal artery enters the fossa poplitea. The perforating arteries and their branches must be thoroughly cleaned, together with the apertures in the adductor magnus through which they pass. It will then be seen that they do not pierce the fleshy substance of the muscle. Prepared for each is a tendinous archway, and they reach the posterior region of the thigh by passing between these and the linea aspera, to which the piers of the various arches are attached. The openings are in the same line with, and are in all respects analogous to the large opening in the adductor magnus muscle for the popliteal artery. The result obtained is the same in each case. When the muscle contracts, the vessels are protected from pressure. Emerging from the tendinous arches the perforating arteries wind round the posterior border of the femur to gain its lateral aspect and reach the vastus lateralis in which they end. In this part of their course they pierce the short head of the biceps femoris. The highest member of the series, which lies proximal to the level of the femoral attachment of the biceps, pierces, as we have already seen, the insertion of the glutreus maximus. Anastomosis on the Posterior Aspect of the Thigh.—In a well-injected subject a chain of arterial anastomosis can be traced from the gluteal region to the popliteal fossa, and the present is the best time to examine it. Commencing proximally, in the glutccal region, the superior glutieal artery is found anastomosing with the inferior glutieal, and the inferior glutmal witli the terminal branches of the medial circumflex artery. In the posterior part of the thigh the251 BACK OF THE THIGH chain of anastomosis is carried distally by the medial and lateral circumflex arteries anastomosing with the first per- forating artery, and by anastomoses between the perforating arteries. The chain is completed distally by anastomoses between the most distal perforating arteries and the muscular branches given from the popliteal artery to the hamstring muscles. Dissection.—At the end of the fifth clay after the subject has been placed upon its face, the dissector must paint the various parts in the glutmal and thigh regions with the preservative solution, replace them in position, and fix the skin flaps over them with a few points of suture. On the morning of the following day he will find the body replaced upon its back, with the pelvis and thorax supported by blocks, and he must at once proceed to study any part of the medial region of the thigh previously left undissected, and to the examination of the hip-joint. Articulatio Coxae (Hip-joint).—The hip-joint is the most perfect example of an enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint in the body. It does not allow so free a range of movement as that which takes place at the shoulder-joint, but what it loses in this respect it gains in strength and stability. Its great strength and security depend (i) upon the depth of the acetabulum and the thorough manner in which the head of the femur is received into it; (2) upon the tension and power of the ligaments; (3) upon the length and oblique direction of the neck of the femur; and (4) upon atmospheric pressure. The ligaments in connection with the hip-joint are :— 1. Capsula articularis. 3. Labrum glenoidale. 2. Ligamentum teres. 4. Lig. transversum acetabuli. The capsular ligament and the ligamentum teres are attached to both bones entering into the consirruction of the joint. The transverse ligament and the labrum glenoidale are connected with the innominate bone only; the former partially fills incisura acetabuli, whilst the latter surrounds the circumference of the acetabulum in a ring-like fashion, and serves to still further deepen it. Capsula Articularis (Capsular Ligament).—'I’his is exceed- ingly strong, and surrounds the joint on all sides. Proximaily, it is attached around the acetabulum ; above and posteriorly directly to the hip bone, just beyond the rim of the cavity; anteriorly, to the superficial aspect of the labrum glenoidale; and below, to the transverse ligament. Distally252 INFERIOR EXTREMITY it clasps the neck of the femur, and anteriorly, it is attached to the whole length of the linen mlertrochanierica, and to the root of the great trochanter. This attachment is very firm and strong. Posteriorly and distally, it falls short of the crista intertrochanterica by about half an inch, and it presents a weak attachment to the distal part of the posterior surface of the neck of the femur. Anterior inferior spine of ilium Labrum glenoidale Head of femur Pubo-capsular ligament Fig. 93.—Dissection of Hip-joint from the front. Pubo-capsular ligament Obturator membrane When the capsule of the hip-joint has been carefully cleaned ! it will be seen that the fibres which compose it run in two j different directions. The majority pass in a longitudinal direction from one bone to the other; others, however, may ■ be observed to take a course more or less at right angles to the former. 'Fhe latter are only seen to advantage on the ■ posterior aspect of the capsule, where they were noted during the dissection of the glutaeal region. The longitudinal fibres i are massed on the front of the joint. Certain thickened :253 BACK OF THE THIGH portions of the capsule, with more or less distinct attach- ments, are described under special names. These are :— The ligamentujn iliofemorale {ilio-femoral ligament) is placed over the front of the articulation, and constitutes the thickest and most powerful part of the capsule. It springs from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and from a depressed surface on the bone immediately to the lateral side of the spine. As it proceeds distally and laterally, it divides into two limbs, which diverge slightly from each other. The 7nore lateral portion is implanted into the proximal part of the linea intertrochanterica, close to the great trochanter; the medial portion, longer and almost vertical in direction, descends to find attachment into the distal end of the linea inter- trochanterica. The interval between the two diverging parts of this ligament is occupied by a thinner portion of the capsule. The ilio-femoral ligament is sometimes called the ^-shaped ligament., but, in making use of this term, remember that the shape it presents is that of an inverted Y. The ligamentunipiibocapsulare (O.'F. pubo-femoral ligattient) is the name applied to several fasciculi which spring from the pubic bone and the obturator membrane, and join the distal and anterior aspect of the capsule. In cases where the bursa under the ilio-psoas is continuous with the cavity of the joint, the aperture of communication is placed between this band and the ilio-femoral ligament. The ligamenhmi ischiocapsulare (O.T. ischio-femoral ligament) is a comparatively weak band which springs from the ischium below the acetabulum and passes proximally and laterally, anterior to the tendon of the obturator externus. Its lateral extremity terminates in the capsule. The zona orbicularis (O.T. orbicular liga7?ietit) is composed of circular fibres, which are most distinct on the posterior aspect of the capsule. It encircles the neck of the femur posteriorly and distally, but is lost as it is traced anteriorly towards the proximal and anterior part of the capsule. The dissector has already observed the close connection which is exhibited between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendons of the glutaeus minimus, and the reflected head of the rectus femoris. Reinforcing fibres are contributed to the capsule by both of these tendons. 1. Ilio-femoral. 2. Pubo-capsular. 3. Ischio-capsular. 4. The zonular band.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 254 Movements permitted at the Hip-joint. — Before the capsule of the joint is opened the range of movement which is permitted at the hip-joint should be tested. Flexion, or forward movement, is very free, and is only checked by the anterior surface of the thigh coming into contact with the abdominal wall. Extension, or backward movement, is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament. This powerful ligament has a most important part to play in preserving the upright attitude with the least possible expenditure of muscular exertion. In the erect posture the line of gravity falls slightly behind the line joining the central points of the two hip-joints. In the upright attitude the ilio-femoral ligaments are tense, and prevent the pelvis from rolling backwards on the heads of the femora. Adduction, or lateral movement of the limb, is checked by the pubo-femoral ligament. Adduction, or medial movement {e.g. as in crossing one thigh over the other), is limited by the proximal portion of the ilio-femoral ligament and the proximal part of the capsule. Rotation tightens the ischio-capsular ligament, and is therefore in a measure restrained by it. Rotation laterally is limited by the lateral portion of the ilio-femoral ligament. In circumduction, which is produced by combination of the movements of flexion, abduction, exten- sion, and adduction, different parts of the capsular ligament are tightened at different stages of the movement. The flexor muscles, which operate on the femur at the hip-joint, are chiefly—(i) the ilio-psoas, and (2) the pectineus ; the extensors are—(i) the glutteus maximus, and (2) the glutmus medius ; (3) the hamstrings ; the abductors—(i) the upper part of the glutseus maximus, (2) the gluUeus medius, (3) the glutreus minimus; the adducto7s—(i) the three adductors, (2) the pectineus, (3) the distal part of the glutreus maximus, and (4) the obturator externus ; the medial rotators—(i) the anterior part of the gluteus medius, (2) the anterior part of the glutceus minimus, (3) the tensor fasciae late, and (4) the ilio-psoas; the lateral rotators—(i) the two obturator muscles, (2) the gemelli, (3) the piriformis, (4) the quadratus femoris, and (5) the distal fibres of the glutceus maximus. It should be noted that the muscle fibres which act as lateral rotators when the body is erect, become abductors when the hip-joint is flexed, and that the ilio-psoas is a flexor of the hip-joint and a medial rotator of the thigh until flexion is almost complete, but then it becomes a lateral rotator. Dissection.—The hip-joint may now be opened, and in doing this it is advisable to remove in the first instance the whole capsule, with the exception of the ilio-femoral ligament. The enormous strength of this portion of the capsule can in this way be appreciated. It is fully a quarter of an inch thick, and a strain varying from 250 lbs. to 750 lbs. is required for its rupture (Bigelow). It is very rarely torn asunder in dislocations, and consequently the surgeon is enabled in most cases to reduce the displace- ment by manipulation. The ilio-femoral ligament may now be removed. Labrum Glenoidale (O.T. Cotyloid Ligament).—This is a firm fibro-cartilaginous ring, which is fixed to the brim or margin of the acetabulum. It bridges across the incisura, and thus com- pletes the circumference of the cavity, deepens it, and at the same time narrows slightly its mouth. The labrum glenoidale fits closely upon the head of the femur, and, acting like a sucker, exercises an important influence in retaining it in place. Both surfaces of the labrum are covered by synovial255 BACK OF THE THIGH membrane; its free margin is thin, but it is much thicker at its attachment to the acetabular brim. Ligamentum Transversum Acetabuli (O.T. Transverse Ligament).—This ligament consists of transverse fibres which bridge across the incisura acetabuli, and are attached to its Ischial spine Labriim glenoidale Capsule of joint divided and thrown outwards Ligamentum teres Transverse ligament Retinacula P'lG. 94.—Dissection of Hip-joint from behind. The bottom of the Acetabulum has been removed to show the Ligamentum teres. margins. It lies between the labrum glenoidale laterally and the bottom of the incisura medially, but a space is left between the medial margin of the ligament and the bottom of the incisura through which vessels and nerves enter the joint. The lateral margin of the ligament is attached to the labrum glenoidale. Ligamentum Teres Femoris (O.d’. Ligamentum Teres).—256 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The ligamentum teres is not round, as its name might lead one to expect, but somewhat flattened and triangular in shape. Its narrow femoral extremity is implanted into the proximal margin of the fovea capitis fern oris, whilst its flattened acetabular end is bifid, and is fixed to the margins of the incisura acetabuli, and also to the transverse ligament. This attachment can be defined by removing the synovial membrane and some areolar tissue. The ligamentum teres is surrounded by a prolongation of the synovial membrane, and a small artery runs along it to the head of the femur. It is difficult to under- stand the part which the ligamentum teres plays in the mechanism of the hip-joint. It presents very different degrees of strength in different individuals. It becomes very tense when the thigh is slightly flexed and then ad- ducted. The Interior of the Joint and the Synovial Membrane.—A mass of soft fat occupies the non-articular bottom of the acetabulum. Upon this the ligamentum teres is placed, and blood-vessels and nerves enter it by passing through the notch under cover of the transverse ligament. The vessels come from the medial circumflex and the obturator arteries, and the nerves come from the anterior branch of the ob- turator nerve and from the accessory obturator, when it is present. A nerve-twig is also supplied to the posterior part of the joint by the nerve to the quadratus femoris. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule. From this it is reflected on to the neck of the femur, and it clothes the bone as far as the margin of the articular cartilage which covers the head. Along the line of reflection some fibres of the capsular ligament proceed upwards on the neck of the femur and raise the synovial membrane in the form of ridges. These fibres are termed the retinacula or cervical ligaments. The- cervical ligaments are of some surgical imporlance. In intra- capsular fracture of the neck of the femur they may escape rupture, and they may then to some e.\tent help to retain the fragments in apposition. Hence examinations of this class of fracture must be conducted gently, lest by rupturing this ligamentous connection the fragments be perma- nently displaced. At the acetabular attachment of the capsular ligament the synovial membrane is reflected on to the labrum glenoidale and invests both its surfaces. It also covers the articular257 BACK OF THE THIGH surface of the transverse ligament and the cushion of fat which occupies the bottom of the cavity. Lastly, it gives a tubular investment to the ligamentum teres. Removal of the Limb.—The limb may now he removed from the trunk by dividing the ligamentum teres. It should then be taken to one of the tables set aside for the dissection of separate parts. Before proceeding to the dissection of the leg it is advisable to study the attachments of the various muscles to the femur. The bulk of these may be removed, but a small portion of each should be left, so that their connections may again be revised, should it be found necessary to do so at a later period. THE LEG. Surface Anatomy.—The relation of the tibia and fibula to the surface should be carefully investigated. The sharp crista anterior or shin of the tibia does not form a projection visible to the eye, but nevertheless it is subcutaneous, and can be very distinctly felt when the finger is passed along it. It pursues a slightly sinuous course and, in its distal part, becomes rounded-off and indistinct. The broad, flat, medial surface of the body of the tibia is also subcutaneous, distal to the level of the insertion of the sartorius, and the medial border of the bone can be followed by the finger throughout its entire length. The fibula is more deeply placed, and the proximal half of its body cannot be felt from the surface owing to the manner in which it is sur- rounded by muscles. The head of the bone, however, is very evident where it articulates with the lateral and posterior part of the lateral condyle of the tibia. For a short distance above the lateral malleolus the body of the fibula is subcutaneous over a triangular area which is interposed between the peronaeus I tertius mu.scle anteriorly and the peronaeus longus and I peronaeus brevis muscles posteriorly. , The two malleoli form marked projections in the region of I the ankle. The medial malleolus is the broader and more 1 prominent of the two; it does not descend so far distally, ‘ but its anterior border is situated more anteriorly than the i lateral malleolus. This is due to its greater breadth, because, ’ when examined from behind, the posterior borders of the two I projections are seen to occupy very nearly the same plane. On the posterior aspect of the leg the prominence known VOL. I—17INFERIOR EXTREMITY 258 as the “ calf of the leg ” is visible. This is largely due to the fleshy bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle. Below the calf, and immediately above the heel, the powerful tendo calcaneus can be felt. In front of this tendon a slight hollow is apparent on either side of the limb. The skin will be reflected from the dorsum of the foot during the dissection of the leg, therefore the present oppor- tunity should be seized for studying the surface anatomy of the foot. The individual tarsal bones cannot be recognised through the integument which covers the dorsum of the foot; but if the foot be powerfully extended the head of the talus will be brought into view in the shape of a slight prominence. The margins of the foot require careful study, because it is by the recognition of certain bony projections in these that the surgeon is enabled to determine the point at which to , enter the knife when he is called upon to perform partial amputation of the foot. Examine the medial margin first. Begin behind at the projection formed by the processus medialis of the calcaneus, and proceed anteriorly. About one inch below the medial malleolus the medial edge of the sustenta- culum tali may be recognised, and about one inch, or a little more, anterior to this is the tubercle of the navicular. Then comes the medial cuneiform bone, which is succeeded by the first metatarsal bone. None of these bony points can be said to form distinct prominences on the surface of a well-developed foot. In order to distinguish them the medial margin of the foot must be carefully palpated. On the lateral margin of the foot the tuberosity on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone stands out as a distinct landmark. Posterior to it is the cuboid, and still more posteriorly the lateral surface of the calcaneus, which is almost completely i subcutaneous. When present in a well-developed form the I peroneal tubercle on this surface may be distinguished, about one inch distal and a little anterior to the lateral malleolus. If the foot be strongly inverted the anterior end 1 of the calcaneus will be seen to project on the surface. Subdivision of the Leg into Regions.—In the dissection of the leg four distinct regions may be recognised, viz. :— 1. An anterior crural region, in which are placed those structures wliich lie anterior to the interosseous membrane, and between the two I bones of the leg. j 2. A medial crural region, corresponding to the subcutaneous or medial I surface of the body of the tibia. |jTHE LEG 2 59 3. A lateral crural region, which includes the parts in relation to the lateral surface of the fibula. 4. A posterior crural region, in which are placed the parts, on the back of the leg, which lie posterior to the interosseous membrane and the two bones of the leg. Anterior Crural Region and Dorsum of Foot. The anterior crural region should be dissected first, and it is usual to conjoin with this the dissection of the dorsum of the foot. The following parts are exposed ;— 1. Superficial veins. 2. Cutaneous nerves. 3. Deep fascia, with its inter - muscular septa, the ligamentum transversum cruris, the lig. laciniatum, and the lig. cruci- atum cruris. 4. Tibialis anterior. S- Extensor digitorum longus. 6. Peronreus tertius. 7. Extensor hallucis longpts. 8. Anterior tibial vessels. 9. Perforating branch of the per- oneal artery. 10. Deep peroneal nerve. 11. Recurrent articular branch from the common peroneal nerve. 12. Extensor digitorum brevis. 13. Dorsalis pedis artery. Reflection of Skin.—To place the limb in a convenient position for the dissection of this region, a block should be introduced beneath the knee, and the foot should be extended and fastened firmly to the table by means of hooks. The skin should be reflected from the tibial and pironeal [medial 2cnA lateral) crural regions at the same time. Incisions:—(i) a vertical cut along the medial line of the leg and dorsum of the foot to the base of the middle toe ; (2) a transverse incision across the ankle-joint ; (3) a transverse incision across the dorsum of the foot at the roots of the toes. The four flaps of skin thus mapped must now be raised from the subjacent fatty tissue, and the superficial veins and nerves dissected out. Venae Superficiales (Superficial Veins).—The arcus venosus dorsalis pedis, which receives the common digital veins, should in the first place be dissected. From the medial extremity of this arch the great saphenous vein will be seen to take origin, whilst from its lateral end the small saphenous vein proceeds. Trace these vessels proximally. The former will be found to pass anterior to the medial malleolus, whilst the latter ascends posterior to the lateral malleolus. The great saphenous vein IS associated with the saphenous nerve, and the small saphenous vein with the sural nerve. Nervi Cutanei (Cutaneous Nerves).—The following are the cutaneous nerves which must be secured in this dissection;— I—17 a 1. N. cutaneus sune lateralis. 2. N. suralis.26o INFERIOR EXTREMITY 3. N. saphenus. 4. N. peronaeus superficialis. 5. N. peronreus profundus. The lateral cutaneous tierve of the calf is a branch of the co7timon pennieal ne7-ve which frequently arises in common with the peroneal anastomotic branch. It turns anteriorly, and is distributed upon the lateral and anterior aspect of the proximal part of the leg. The sural 7ierve (O.T. short saphenous) can be readily found. It reaches the lateral margin of the foot by passing posterior to the lateral malleolus, in company with the small saphenous vein, and becomes the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve. Trace it anteriorly, and it will be found to end upon the lateral side of the little toe. On the dorsum of the foot a connecting twig passes between this nerve and the lateral division of the superficial peroneal nerve (nervus cutaneus dor- salis intermedins). The saphenous 7ierve (O.T. inter7ialsaphe7ious ne7've) should be looked for anterior to the medial malleolus. It descends in company with the great saphenous vein. It may, with care, be followed half-way along the medial margin of the foot, but there it ends. Above the ankle-joint several minute twigs from this nerve may be found passing forwards to reach the front of the leg. The superficial peroneal 7ierve (O.T. 77msculo-cutaneotis yterve) appears in the distal third of the leg. It pierces the deep fascia a short way lateral to the middle line of the limb. Almost immediately it splits into a medial and a lateral part. The /7iedial division (the nervus cutaneus dorsalis medialis) extends anteriorly, on the dorsum of the foot, and sends one branch to the medial side of the great toe, and a second to supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes. It likewise gives a number of twigs to the skin upon the medial margin of the -foot, and effects junctions with the deep peroneal nerve and the saphenous nerve. The lateral divisio7i (the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve), is smaller than the medial part. It gives several twigs to the skin on the dorsum of the foot, communicates with the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve, and then divides into two branches, which supply the contiguous margins of the third, fourth, and fifth toes. Therefore, with the exception of the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, which are supplied by the deep peroneal nerve, and the lateral side of the little toe, which is supplied by the lateral dorsal continua-261 THE LEG tion of the sural nerve, the superficial peroneal nerve furnishes twigs to the two margins of each of the toes (Fig. 98, p. 269). Very frequently the distribution of the superficial peroneal nerve is more restricted, and in these cases the lateral dorsal cutaneous nerve will, in all probability, be found to supply the lateral two and a half toes. The nervus peromcus profundus (O.T. miterior tibial nerve), or rather its medial terminal branch, pierces the deep fascia on the dorsum of the foot in the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones. It receives a communicating branch from the medial dorsal cutaneous nerve, and ends by dividing into two twigs, which go to supply the adjacent margins of the great toe and the second toe. Deep Fascia.—The fatty superficial fascia should be re- moved in order that the deep fascia may be displayed. This aponeurosis does not form a complete investment for the leg. It is absent over the medial area of the tibia, and is attached to the anterior and medial borders of that bone. It is also absent over the triangular subcutaneous surface on the distal part of the fibula, being attached to the ridges which limit that area anteriorly and posteriorly. It is not equally dense throughout. In the proximal part of the anterior crural region it is thick and strong, but it thins as it is traced distally, and on the dorsum of the foot it becomes exceedingly fine. Its great strength in the proximal part of the anterior crural region is due to the fact that there it gives origin to subjacent muscles. In the neighbourhood of the ankle-joint it forms the thickened bands which retain the tendons in position during the action of the muscles. Four of these may be examined at this stage, viz. the lig. transversum cruris, the lig. cruciatum cruris, and the superior and in- ferior retinacula, of the peroneal muscles.^ The ligamentum transversum cruris (O.T. upper part of anterior annular ligament) is a strong, broad band which stretches across the front of the leg immediately proximal to the ankle-joint. By one extremity it is attached to the fibula, and by the other to the tibia. The lig. cruciatum cruris (O.^F. lower part anterior annular liga?nent) is placed over the ankle- joint. Laterally it presents the appearance of a narrow, well- ’ In the old terminology the first two bands were respectively the upper and lower parts of the anterior anmilar ligament of the ankie, and the last two were included under the term external annular ligament. 1—17 h262 INFERIOR EXTREMITY defined band, which is fixed firmly to the anterior part of the calcaneus. As it is traced medially it will be seen to divide into two diverging limbs. Of these the proximal is attached to the medial malleolus, whilst the distal passes to the medial margin of the foot, and becomes connected with the plantar aponeurosis. The lig. transversum and the lig. cruciatum cruris are merely portions of the deep fascia which are dis- tinguishable on account of their thickness. The stiperior peroneal retinaculum is a thickened por- tion of the deep fascia which passes from the posterior and distal part of the lateral malleolus to the proximal and posterior part of the lateral surface of the calcaneus. The inferior pero7ieal retinaculum springs from the anterior part of the proximal surface of the calcaneus, where it is con- tinuous with the lateral extremity of the cruciate ligament; its opposite ex- Fig. 95.—Diagrammatic representation of tremity is attached. On the the Fascia of the Leg. The fascia of the lateral border of the foOt, tinitalic r»/DCtf=»rinr ic moria n mnc/>iilof > tibialis posterior is more a muscular aponeurosis than a true fascial septum ; tO the peroneal tubercle but it is convenient for descriptive pur- of the calcaneus and tO poses to regard it as one of the parti- tions. calcaneus distal to the tubercle. The peroneal retinacula bind the tendons of the peronasus longus and brevis to the lateral border of the foot. Intermuscular Septa.—As the deep fascia of the leg passes, posteriorly, over the fibular region, two strong intermuscular septa are given off from its deep surface. These are dis- tinguished as the anterior and posterior peroneal septa. The anterior peroneal septum intervenes between the peroneal muscles and the extensor muscles, and is attached to the anterior border of the fibula. The posterior peroneal septum is interposed between the peroneal muscles and the muscle on the back of the leg, and is attached to the lateral border of the fibula. The leg is thus subdivided into three osteo-THE LEG 263 fascial compartments, corresponding to the anterior, lateral, and posterior crural regions. The atiterior cofnpartme?it is bounded by the investing deep fascia, the anterior peroneal septum, the anterior part of the medial surface of the fibula (that part which lies anterior to the interosseous crest), the interosseous membrane, and the lateral surface of the tibia. The lateral comparftnent is bounded by the lateral surface of the fibula, the investing fascia, and the two peroneal septa. The posterior compartment is much the largest, and its walls are formed by the posterior surface of the tibia, the posterior part of the medial surface and the whole of the posterior surface of the fibula, the interosseous membrane, the posterior peroneal septum, and the investing deep fascia. This compartment'is still further subdivided by two partitions ; but these will be studied later. Dissection. —The anterior compartment of the leg should now be opened by removing the deep fascia. The transverse and cruciate ligaments, however, must be retained, and their borders should be separated artificially, by the knife, from the deep fascia with which they are continuous. In the proximal part of the leg it will be found impossible to raise the fascia from the subjacent muscles without lacerating their surfaces. It should therefore be left in position. At a lower level it can readily be separated. Divide it in a longitudinal direction midway between the tibia and fibula. On throwing the medial piece medially its firm attachment to the anterior border of the tibia will become evident; and as the lateral piece is turned laterally the anterior peroneal septum will come into view. Contents of the Anterior Crural Compartment.—Four muscles are brought into view by the above dissection, viz. the tibialis anterior, the extensor digitorum longus, the extensor hallucis longus, and the peronaeus tertius. The tibialis anterior lies in relation to the tibia; the extensor digitorum longus is placed along the fibula; and on separating these muscles from each other, the extensor hallucis longits will be seen in the interval between them. The peronceus tertius lies upon the distal portion of the fibula, and in most cases is incorporated with the extensor digitorum longus. The anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve (O.T. anterior tibial) proceed distally in this compartment. At first they are deeply placed, but as they approach the ankle they come nearer to the surface. Dissection.—To expose the anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve in their entire course, on the front of the leg, the tibialis anterior and the extensor digitorum longus must be separated from each other, along the line of a strong intermuscular septum which dips posteriorly I—17 c264 INFERIOR EXTREMITY between them, and affords a surface of origin to each. The knife should Patella Ligamentum palellaj Tendon of biceps fenioris Long collateral fibular ligament Common peroneal nerve (O.T. ext. popliteal) Recurrent articular nerve Deep peroneal nerve (O.T. anterior tibial) Anterior tibial artery Tibialis anterior PeroiiEeus longus Superficial peroneal nerve (O.T. musculo-cutaneous) Extensor digitorum longus Peronaus brevis Transverse crural ligament (O.T. upper band of anterior annular ligT) Perf. branch of peroneal artery Cruciate ligament (O.T. lower l;and of ant. arm. Hg* Dorsalis pedis artery Deep peroneal nerve (0.7'. ani. tibial) Extensor digitorum brevis Tendon of peronmus lertius ■'Extensor hallucis longus ). 96.—Dissection of the Anterior and Lateral Crural Regions.265 THE LEG be carried proximally along the plane of this septum. By drawing aside the peromeus tertius muscle, the perforating branch of the peroneal artery will be seen piercing the interosseous membrane. It is a small artery which descends upon the distal end of the fibula. As the structures in the anterior crural compartment are being exposed and cleaned, the dissector should, at the same time, carry on the dissection of the dorsum of the foot. There the tendons of the muscles on the front of the leg must be followed to their insertions, and the extensor digitorum brevis vmscle defined. The dorsalis pedis arterj'axid deep pero?teal nerve should also be followed, and their branches traced to their various destinations. M. Tibialis Anterior (O.T. Tibialis Anticus).—The tibialis anterior is a powerful muscle, which takes origin from the distal part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, and from the proximal half of the lateral surface of its body (Fig. 96, p. 264). It likewise derives many fibres from the deep fascia 'which covers it, from the fascial septum between it and the extensor digitorum longus and the portion of the interosseous membrane on which it rests. In other words, it springs from the structures which form the walls of the medial portion of the osteo-fascial compartment in which it lies.^ A strong tendon issues from its fleshy belly in the distal third of the leg, and this reaches the dorsum of the foot by passing through both the transverse and cruciate ligaments. On the foot it inclines medially, and, turning round the medial margin, gains insertion by two slips into the medial and distal part of the medial cuneiform bone, and into the adjoin- ing part of the base of the first metatarsal bone. The tibialis anterior is supplied by the deep peroneal nerve. M. Extensor Digitorum Longus.—This muscle arise.s, for the most part, from the structures which form the lateral portion of the wall of the anterior crural region. Thus it springs from the distal part of the lateral condyle of the tibia, from the head of the fibula, and from the proximal three-fourths of the anterior part of the medial surface of the body of the fibula (Fig. 96, p. 264). It also takes origin from a small portion of the proximal part of the interosseous membrane, the deep investing fascia of the leg, the anterior peroneal septum, and the inter-muscular septum which dips ’ To understand the attachments of the muscles of the leg, it is necessary to bear in mind that the interosseous membrane, which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and thus extends the surface of origin for these muscles, is attached to the interosseous crest of the tibia [i.e. between its lateral and posterior surfaces) and to the interosseous crest of the fibula. The interosseous crest of the fibula traverses the medial surface, and divides it into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part gives origin to the extensor muscles and the posterior part to the flexor muscles.INFERIOR EXTREMITY i66 INFERIOR EXTREMITY. THE THIGH. On the morning of the fourth day after the subject has been brought into the dissecting room it is placed upon the table lying upon its back, the pelvis is supported by two blocks, and the inferior extremities are stretched out at full length. In this position it is allowed to remain for five days and during that period the dissector of the inferior extremity has a very extensive dissection to perform. He has to dissect (i) the anterior region of the thigh, including the irigonum femorale and its contents, (2) the medial region of the thigh, in- cluding the adductor canal and its contents. With so much work to be completed, within a limited time, he must appor- tion the five days to the best advantage. During the first day he should dissect the superficial structures of the whole of the anterior and medial aspects of the thigh. During the second and third days he should complete the dissection of the femoral triangle and the anterior region of the thigh, and the remainder of the period should be devoted to the dissec- tion of the medial region. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected the surface markings of the anterior, the lateral, and medial region of the thigh must be examined. A faint sulcus at the superior extremity of the afiterior region is the boundary line between the inguinal region of the abdomen and the subinguinal region of the thigh. The resistance felt deep to the sulcus is due to the ligamentum inguinale (O.T. Pouparfs Ligament) which is attached, at the lateral and superior end of the sulcus, to the anterior superior iliac spine, and its inferior and medial end to the tubercle of the pubis. From the anterior superior iliac spine the crista iliaca can be traced laterally and dorsally, and from the pubic tubercle the finger should be carried medially, along the pubic crest, to the superior end of the symphysis pubis. Next the finger should be passed downwards, along the front of the symphysis pubis, to the superior margin of the arcus pubis and thence downwards and dorsally,' along the rami of the pubis and ischium, which mark the superior boundary of the medial femoral region, to the tuber167 THE THIGH ischiadicum. About four inches below the highest part Junction of manubrium k'iih body of sternum Lateral malleolus Medial condyle of femur L Lateral condyle of femur Patella Tibia Head of fibula Medial malleolus ateral malleolus ead of radius Symphysis of pubis Lower end of radius Sternal end of clavicle Acromial end of clavicle Head of humerus Nipple Lower end of body of sternum Lateral epicondyle Medial epicondyle Ant. sup. spine of ilium Great trochanter • Styloid process of radius Styloid process of ulna biG. 64.—Anterior Surface of Body. uf the iliac crest, and on the plane of the [)ubic ridge, is t le regio trochan/erica, indicated by an eminence due to the i-llc LINFERIOR EXTREMITY 268 third of the leg, where the muscles give place to their tendons, the artery comes nearer to the surface. In this part of its course it rests upon the tibia and is overlapped on the lateral side by the extensor hallucis longus. Immediately proximal to the ankle-joint the tendon of that muscle crosses the artery and comes to lie on its medial side. Two vencE co7uites closely accompany the anterior tibial artery, and send short communicating branches both anterior and posterior to it. The deep peroneal nerve is also intimately related to it. It joins the artery a short distance below the knee and soon takes up a position anterior to the vessel. Near the ankle-joint the nerve, as a rule, assumes a place on the lateral side of the artery. On the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery gives off the following branches:— 1. Muscular. 3. Medial anterior malleolar. 2. Anterior recurrent tibial. 4. Lateral anterior malleolar. The muscular branches are numerous and come off at irregular points along the whole length of the artery. They supply the muscles on the ajiterior cru7-al regio7i. Arteria Recurrens Tibialis Anterior.—This small vessel springs from the anterior tibial immediately after it reaches the front of the leg. It turns proximally on the lateral condyle of the tibia in the fibres of the tibialis anterior muscle. Its terminal twigs reach the front of the knee-joint, and anastomose with the inferior genicular branches from the popliteal artery. Malleolar Arteries.—These arteries take origin immediately above the ankle-joint. The arteria 7/ialleola7-is a7iterior lateralis is the larger of the two, and passes laterally under cover of the tendons of the extensor digitorum longus and peronreus tertius, to reach the lateral surface of the lateral malleolus. It anastomoses with the perforating branch of the peroneal artery and with the tarsal arteries. The a7ieria malleolaris anterior 7/iedialis runs medially under cover of the tendons of the extensor hallucis longus and tibialis anterior. It inosculates with branches from the posterior tibial artery. Arteria Dorsalis Pedis.—The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial. It begins in front of the ankle-joint at a point midway between the two malleoli, and it extends forwards, upon the forepart of the talus, theTHE LEG 269 naviculare, and the intermediate cuneiform bones, to the posterior part of the interosseous space between the meta- tarsal bones of the great toe and the second toe. There it leaves the dorsum of the foot, by dipping plantarwards between the two heads of the Tibialis anterior Extensor digitorum longiis first dorsal interosse- ous muscle, to reach the plantar region where it unites with the lateral plantar artery in the forma- tion of the plantar arch. Its relations on the dorsum of the foot are very simple, (i) It lies in the in- terval between the tendon of the exten- sor hallucis longus on the medial side and the most medial ten- don of the extensor digitorum longus on the lateral side. (2) At itscommencement it is crossed by the proximal band of the cruciate ligament, whilst near its ter- mination it is crossed by the most medial tendon of the extensor digitorum brevis ; with these exceptions the vessel is simply covered by the integu- ment and fascia. (3) Peronsus brevis Peronaeus longus —Exten.sor hallucis longus Tibia Peronasus tertius Fibula — Ligamentum transversuni — Extensor hallucis longus Dorsalis pedis artery Ligamentum cruciatum Deep peroneal nerve Tibialis anterior _ Nerve to extensor hallucis brevis Extensor hallucis longus Peronaeus tertius Extensor digitorum brevis Arcuate artery Tendons of extensor digitorum longus Fig. g8.—Dissection of the Dorsum of the Foot. The medial terminal branch of the deep peroneal nerve lies ^ ong its lateral side, and two vena comites accompany it. As the dorsalis pedis artery traverses the dorsum of the oot it gives off several twigs to the medial margin of the foot, and also three named branches :—2 70 ' INFERIOR EXTREMITY 1. The lateral tarsal. H| 2. The arcuate. H 3. The first metatarsal artery. M' Lateral Tarsal and Arcuate Arteries (O.T. Tarsal andfl Metatarsal).—The tarsal artery arises opposite the navicular H bone, and the arcuate artery near the bases of the metatarsal ■, bones. They both run laterally under cover of the extensor® Fig. 99.—Dissection of the Dorsum of the Foot. The 2ud, 3rd, and mh Metatarsal Bones have been removed to show the Plantar .■\rterial Arch in the sole of the foot. k digitorum brevis to reach the lateral margin of the foot.| There they anastomose with branches of the lateral plantar ' artery. The tarsal artery also anastomoses with the lateralj malleolar and peroneal arteries. I From the arch which is formed by the arcuate artery! three dorsal metatarsal arteries proceed, one to each of thej three lateral interosseous spaces. At the clefts between the] toes these divide and supply dorsal digital twigs to thej Extensor digitorum bievis Peronaeus tertius Deep branch of lateral plantar nerve Lateral plantar arterj' Adductor hallucis caput transversum Lateral branch of deep peroneal nerve Deep peroneal Dorsalis pedis artery Extensor hallucis longus Arcuate artery Tendon of peronaeus longus in the sole of the foot Plantar arch Adductor hallucis, caput obliquum Deep peroneal nerveTHE LEG 2 7 I adjacent sides of the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes. From the most lateral interosseous artery a twig is also given to the lateral side of the little toe. First Dorsal Metatarsal Artery (O.T. First Dorsal Interos- seous).—This small vessel takes origin from the dorsalis pedis, at the point where it turns plantarwards to reach the plantar region of the fqpt. It continues anteriorly, upon the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and divides into dorsal digital branches for the medial side of the great toe and the adjacent sides of the great toe and second toe.^ Perforating Branch of Peroneal Artery (O.T. Anterior Peroneal Artery).—This branch of the peroneal artery reaches the anterior region of the leg by piercing the interosseous membrane, about one and a half or two inches proximal to the lateral malleolus, and it descends upon the lower part of the fibula under cover of the peronaeus tertius. It is distributed on the lateral side of the tarsus, where it anastomoses with the lateral malleolar and the lateral tarsal arteries. M. Extensor Digitorum Brevis.—The extensor digitorum brevis may now be examined. It arises from the anterior part of the calcaneus, and also from the ligamentum cruciatum. It splits into four fleshy bellies, which extend forwards and medially, on the dorsum of the foot, and end in four slender tendons for the four medial toes. The most medial tendon crosses the dorsalis pedis artery, near its termination, and is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the remaining three tendons join the long extensor tendons which go to the second, third, and fourth toes. The extensor digitorum brevis is supplied by the lateral branch of the deep pero7ieal nerve. Nervus Peronseus Profundus (O.T. Anterior Tibial).—The deep peroneal nerve is one of the terminal branches of the common peroneal. It arises on the lateral side of the neck of the fibula, and, piercing the proximal part of the extensor digitorum longus obliquely, joins the anterior tibial vessels a short distance distal to the lateral condyle of the tibia, and accompanies them during the remainder of its course. In the first instance it is placed lateral and next anterior to them, but near the ankle-joint it again lies on their lateral ' For the branches from the dorsalis pedis in tlie plantar region see p. 304.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 272 side. Passing posterior to the transverse and cruciate liga- ments, it ends by dividing into a medial and a lateral branch. In' its course through the leg the deep peroneal nerve gives muscular branches to the extensor digitorum longus, the tibialis anterior, the extensor hallucis longus, and the peroneus tertius ; likewise a fine articular hvig to the ankle-joint. The medial terminal hra7tch of the deep pproneal nerve is Extensor hallucis longus Anterior tibial vessels and deep peroneal nerve Extensor digitorum longus Peronaeus tertius Lig. transversum Tibialis anterior Fibula Interosseous calcaneo- taloid lig. Calcaneus Peronaeus brevis Superior peroneal retinaculum Peronaeus longus Abductor digiti quinti Plantar Tibialis posterior Deltoid ligament Flexor digitorum longus iNiedial plantar arlerj' Medial plantar nerve Flexor hallucis longus Abductor hallucis Lateral plantar nerve Lateral plantar artery Flexor digitorum brevis Fig. ioo.—Coronal section through the Left Ankle-joint, Talus, and Calcaneus (Paterson). continued forwards upon the dorsum of the foot along the lateral side of the dorsalis pedis artery. Reaching the first interosseous space it pierces the deep fascia, and divides to supply the contiguous margins of the great toe and the second toe (p. 269). Before it reaches the surface, it furnishes articular twigs io the tarso-metatarsal and metatarso-phalangeal joints of the great toe, and frequently, also, a fine muscular hvig to the dorsal surface of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The lateral terminal branch of the deep peroneal nerve turns abruptly laterally, under cover of the extensor digitorumTHE LEG 273 brevis, and ends on the dorsum of the foot in a gangliform enlargement. Branches proceed from the ganglion for the supply of the extensor digitorum brevis, and the numerous articulations in the neighbourhood. One fine filament can, in most cases, be traced to the second dorsal interosseous muscle. The terminal swelling resembles closely the corre- sponding enlargement in which the dorsal interosseous nerve of the upper extremity ends. The Transverse and Cruciate Ligaments (O.T. Anterior Annular Ligament).—The dissector should again examine these ligaments, and the arrangement of the structures which pass under them. The transverse ligament is attached to the fibula by its lateral end, and to the tibia by its medial extremity. By dividing its fibular attachment, and throwing it medially, it will be seen to give a separate and distinct sheath to the tibialis anterior. The cruciate ligame7tt is the more important of the two. Its attachments have already been noted (p. 261). Examine the manner in which it holds the tendons in position. It consists of two layers, and these, by separating at certain points and becoming reunited at others, form three distinct compartments. Through the tnost medial passes the tendon of the tibialis anterior; through the intertnediate one passes the tendon of the extensor hallucis longus; and through the lateral are transmitted the tendons of the extensor digitorum longus and peronaeus tertius. As the tendons pass through the compartments of the ligaments, and for some distance proximal to the transverse and distal to the cruciate ligament, they are surrounded by mucous sheaths. Lastly, note the position of the anterior tibial vessels and the deep peroneal nerve as they pass under cover of the ligaments. They lie between the extensor hallucis longus and the extensor digitorum longus (Pig. 96). Lateral Crural or Peroneal Region. The peroneal or lateral compartment of the leg should now be opened by dividing, in a longitudinal direction, the fascia which covers it. Enclosed within it are ;— 1. The peronreus longus. 2. The peronaeus brevis. 3. The termination of the common peroneal nerve. 4. The superficial peroneal nerve. VOL. 1—18INFERIOR EXTREMITY 274 M. Peronaeus Longus.—The peron^us longus muscle arises from the head and from the lateral surface of the shaft of the fibula in its proximal two-thirds. A surface of origin is also afforded to it by the fascia which covers it, and by the two peroneal intermuscular septa. It ends, a short distance proximal to the ankle, in a long tendon, which is continued distally posterior to the lateral malleolus. Gaining the lateral margin of the foot, it proceeds forwards on the lateral surface of the calcaneus to the groove on the plantar surface of the cuboid, which conducts it transversely into the sole. Its insertion will be examined at a later period. It is supplied by the superficial peroneal nerve (O.T. musculo cutaneous'). M. Peronaeus Brevis.—This muscle arises from the distal two-thirds of the lateral surface of the body of the fibula, distal and anterior to the peronaeus longus, and from the peroneal intermuscular septum on either side of it. Its tendon descends, posterior to the lateral malleolus, and then turns forwards on the lateral surface of the calcaneus to gain an insertion into the projecting base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.^ On the posterior surface of the lateral malleolus the tendon of the peronaeus brevis lies directly under cover of the tendon of the peronaeus longus, and therefore in contact with the bone. On the lateral surface of the calcaneus the tendon of the peronaeus brevis is placed more proxirnally than that of its fellow muscle. As the tendons of the two peronei muscles proceed distally, in the hollow between the lateral malleolus and the posterior prominence of the calcaneus, they are held in place by the superior peroneal retinaculum., and their movements are facilitated by the presence of a common mucous sheath. On the lateral surface of the calcaneus the tendons are retained in position by the mferiorperoneal retinaculum, but each tendon lies in a separate compartment surrounded by its own special i prolongation of the mucous sheath. The peroneal tubercle I of the calcaneus intervenes between these two sheaths. The ' peronreus brevis is supplied by the superficialperojieal na-ve. N. Peronaeus Communis (O.T. External Popliteal Nerve). ( —This nerve has previously been traced as far as the neck of c the fibula. At this point it disappears from view by passing | 1 A small tendinous slip will, as a general rule, be observed to proceed j: forwards from the tendon of the peronreus brevis to join the tendon of the long i e.xtensor on the dorsum of the little toe. This is the peroncrus quinti digiti-THE LEG 275 anteriorly between the peronasus longus muscle and the bone. The muscle must therefore be carefully turned aside from its origin in order that the nerve may be followed. It will be found to give off a small recurrent articular nerve to the knee-joint, and then to divide into the deep and superficial peroneal nerves. The recurrent branch accompanies the anterior recurrent tibial artery. It turns proximally in the fibres of the tibialis anterior. To the proximal part of this muscle it gives several twigs, whilst its terminal filaments gain the front of the knee-joint. The deep peroneal nerve pierces the proximal part of the extensor digitorum longus to reach the anterior region of the leg, where it has already been dissected. N. Peronaeus Superficialis (O.T. Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve). — This nerve proceeds distally in the substance of the peronasus longus. It reaches the interval between the two peronei muscles, gives branches to both, and, lastly, comes to lie between the peronaeus brevis and the extensor digitorum longus. In the distal third of the leg it pierces the fascia, becomes cutaneous, and divides into the medial and inter- mediate dorsal cutaneous nerves of the foot (p. 260). Medi.vl Crural Region. This region corresponds to the subcutaneous or medial surface of the tibia. The deep fascia blends with the peri- osteum of the bone, and the only structures which have to be examined are :— 1. The great saphenous vein. 2. The saphenous nerve. 3. The expanded tendons of insertion of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gracilis. 4. Tibial collateral ligament of the knee-joint. S- Inferior medial genicular artery. 6. Inferior medial articular nerve. The great saphenous vein and the saphenous Jierves, as they pass from the anterior to the posterior crural region, cross obliquely over the distal third of the medial surface of the tibia. The insertions of the sartorius., gracilis, and semitendinosus into the proximal part of the medial surface of the tibia shouldINFERIOR EXTREMITY 276 again be examined. Observe how the sartorius overlaps the tendons of the other two, and how the tendon of the gracilis overlaps the proximal part of the tendon of the semitendinosus. Bursae mucosa separate these tendons from each other. The collateral tibial Ugame7it of the knee-joint will be seen extending distally, for a short distance, upon the medial aspect of the body of the tibia. Passing anteriorly under cover of this ligament, so as to gain the anterior aspect of the knee, are the inferior medial genicular vessels and the inferior 7nedial articular 7ierve. Posterior Crural Region. The following is a list of the structures which are met with in this dissection :— 1. 2. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- r, c • 1 • r Great saphenous vein. ^ ’ I Small saphenous vein. Cutaneous nerves. Deep fascia. r Gastrocnemius. Superficial muscles of the calf, -! Plantaris. (Soleus. Tenclo calcaneus (Achillis) and its bursa. Posterior tibial vessels. Tibial nerve. {Popliteus. Flexor hallucis longus. Tibialis posterior. Flexor digitorum longus. Ligament laciniatum. Deep muscles. Reflection of Skin.—The limb must now be placed on its anterior aspect, and the muscles of the calf rendered tense by flexing the foot at the ankle-joint. This position should be maintained by the aid of hooks, fastened to the toes and to the under surface of the table. Incisions.—(i) A longitudinal incision along the middle line of the leg, on its posterior aspect, to the extremity of the heel. (2) A transverse incision at the distal end of this, extending along the medial and lateral margins of the foot for about two inches on either side. The two flaps of skin thus marked out must be raised and turned laterally and medially. Superficial Veins. — The great and S7nall saflie/wus veins must be traced in the substance of the fatty superficial fascia. Both of these vessels have been seen in previous steps of the dissection. The great safhe7wus vem has been observed to arise from the medial extremity of the venous arch on the dorsum of the foot, and it has been followed proximallyi for a short distance, anterior to the medial malleolus, and thenTHE LEG 277 mw- 3ft-; upon the medial aspect of the distal part of the tibia, also been dissected upon the medial aspect of the thigh and knee. It can now be exposed in its course along the medial side of the calf of the leg. It lies a short distance posterior to the medial border of the tibia. The sma// saphenous vein has been seen to arise from the lateral end of the dorsal arch and to pass proximally posterior to the lateral malleolus. It may now be followed, as it ascends along the lateral side of the tendo calcaneus, to the posterior aspect of the leg, where it lies over the inter- val between the twoheadsof the gastrocnemius muscle. When it gains the distal part of the fossa poplitea it pierces the deep fascia and joins the popliteal vein. Associated with each of these veins are certain It has Lumbar nerves. Lateral cutaneous branches of last dorsal and ilio«“ hypogastric Sacral nerves - Perforating cutaneous" Branches from posterior femoral _I5 cutaneous nerve Lateral cutaneous Perineal rami of posterior cutaneous nerve Posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh Medial cutaneous Lateral cutaneous Medial cutaneous Peronaeal anastomotic nerve Posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ~|j M cutaneous nerves, which must be displayed at the same time. The posterior cutaneous ?ierve of the thigh is closely related to the small saphenous vein in its proximal part, and the sural nerve accompanies it in the distal half of the leg. In company with the great saphetious vein is the saphenous nerve. Cutaneous Nerves.—These Medial cutaneous nerve of the calf (O.T. ramus com-_ municans tibialis) Sural nerve (O.T. short saphenous) Medial calcanean Fig. 101.—Cutaneous Nerves on the posterior aspect of the Lower Limb. are very numerous. On the278 INFERIOR EXTREMITY medial side of the leg are—(i) the saphenous nerve; (2) the posterior branch of the medial cutaneous of the thigh ; and (3) the medial calcanean nerves. The guide to the saphenous 7ierve is the great saphenous vein. It may now be exposed in its entire course along the medial side of the leg. The poste7‘ior bra7ich of the 7/iedial cuta7ieous 7ierve of the thigh proceeds distally a short distance posterior to the preceding nerve. It usually ends about the middle of the leg. The medial calcanean 7ierves are branches of the posterior tibial nerve. Dissect for them in the interval between the prominence of the heel and medial malleolus. They pierce the ligamentum laciniatum (O.T. internal annular), nearer the former than the latter, and their branches of distribution to the skin of the heel and sole will be seen in a future dissection. In the i7iiddle line of the leg two nerves will be found, viz. , —(i) the terminal part of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, and (2) the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf. They have both been previously seen in the dissection of the fossa poplitea. The medial cutaneous nerve of the calf, a branch of the tibial nerve, descends in the interval between the two heads of the gastrocnemius and pierces the deep fascia midway between the knee and ankle. A short distance distal to this it is joined by the anastomotic peroneal nerve, and then acquires the name of sural nerve. On the lateral side of the posterior aspect of the leg is the a7iastoniotic peroneal ?ierve, a branch of the common peroneal nerve. It descends upon the lateral head of the gastro- cnemius, and, perforating the deep fascia, unites with the medial cutaneous nerve of the calf a short distance distal to the middle of the leg, to form the sural 7ierve. The latter has already been traced posterior to the lateral malleolus to the lateral margin of the foot and little toe. Deep Fascia.—A continuous view of the deep fascia, on the posterior aspect of the leg, can now be obtained by removing the remains of the superficial fat. Observe how thin and transparent it is in the proximal part of the leg, and how it thickens as it is followed distally towards the heel. At no point, however, is it very dense. As it passes over the interval between the heel and the medial malleolus it forms the liga7/ie/itu/n lacmiatum. It is continuous proximally with the popliteal fascia, and a short distance distal to the knee, on the medial side, it receives a reinforcement of fibres from279 THE LEG the tendons of the sartorius, the gracilis, and the semi- tendinosus. Osteo fascial Compartments of the posterior region of the Leg.— Divide the fascia along the middle line and turn it laterally and medially. Leave the ligamentum laciniatum intact. On raising the medial part of the fascia it will be seen to be attached to the medial border of the tibia. In fact, it blends with the periosteum covering the medial subcutaneous surface of this bone. On turning the lateral portion of fascia laterally it will be observed to be directly continuous with the fascia on the front of the leg : further, the strong intermuscular septum (posterior peroneal septum) which passes in to join the lateral crest of the fibula, between the peroneal muscles and the muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg, will be demon- strated. In this manner, then, the large posterior osteo-fascial compartment is formed, and, as the dissection goes on, two partitions will be noticed to stretch across it so as to subdivide it into three portions. The most superficial of these holds the superficial muscles of the calf; the intermediate portion contains the flexor muscles with the posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve : whilst the deepest part encloses the tibialis posterior muscle (Fig. 97, p. 266). One of these partitions may be exposed at the present moment by removing the fat which is usually accumulated under cover of the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). Subjacent to this tendon is the layer of fascia in question. It stretches between the tibia and Fig. 102.—Posterior aspect of distal por- fibula, and separates the super- tion of Femur with Attachments of ficial from the deep group of Muscles mapped out. muscles. In this locality it will be seen to be very dense, and to be strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It becomes continuous on the medial side of the ankle with the ligamentum laciniatum (O.T. internal annular ligament)—indeed, the dissector will not fail to observe that it takes a more prominent part in the formation of this ligament than the investing aponeurosis of the limb. In the proximal part of the leg it becomes very thin. Superficial Muscles,—The superficial muscles of the calf of the leg are three in number, viz. the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the soleus. The gastrocnemius is the most superficial; the soleus is placed under cover of the gastro- cnemius ; whilst the slender plantaris extends distally and medially between them. The tendons of insertion of the gastrocnemius and soleus unite to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). M. Gastrocnemius.—This strong muscle arises by two headsINFERIOR EXTREMITY 28o from the posterior aspect of the distal end of the femur. These heads have been already studied in connection with the pop- liteal space, which they bound in its distal part. The lateral head springs from an impression on the lateral surface of the lateral condyle of the femur, and also from a small portion of the popliteal surface of the bone immediately proximal to the condyle. The 7>iedialhead takes origin from the proximal part of the medial condyle, and likewise from a rough ridge on the adjacent part of the planum popliteum. The two fleshy bellies swell out as they descend, and end, near the middle of the leg, in a thin aponeurotic tendon. They do not blend with each other. They are usually separated by a furrow, at the bottom of which the flattened tendon, to which the fasciculi of both heads are attached, may be seen. The medial head is the more bulky of the two, and it extends more distally than the lateral head. The flattened tendon in which they terminate narrows slightly as it descends, and, a short distance distal to the middle of the leg, it blends with the stouter tendon of the soleus to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). The gastrocnemius is supplied by the tibial nerve. Dissection.—The medial head of the gastrocnemius may be divided at the level of the knee-joint. The sural arteries from the popliteal trunk, and the branches of supply from the tibial nerve which enter the heads of the gastrocnemius, can thus be preserved. On rais- ing the proximal portion of the medial head, a bursa which intervenes between it and the condyle of the femur will be brought into view. On opening this with the knife it will, in all probability, be found to com- municate with the interior of the knee-joint. The smooth and tendinous opposed surfaces of the gastrocnemius and the soleus, and the narrow tendon of the plantaris, which passes distally and medially between them, are displayed when the medial head of the gastrocnemius is drawn aside. M. Plantaris.—The small fleshy belly of the plantaris is not more than three or four inches long. It lies along the medial I side, and partly under cover of the lateral head of the gastro- cnemius, and it arises from the popliteal surface of the femur i immediately proximal to the lateral condyle. It ends in a » slender tendon which is remarkable for its great length. This i proceeds distally and medially, between the gastrocnemius i and soleus, and then runs along the medial side of the tendo \ calcaneus (Achillis) to gain insertion into the posterior aspect of the calcaneus. It is frequently closely connected with I the tendo calcaneus, and sometimes becomes blended with 1281 THE LEG it, or with the fascia of the leg before it reaches the tendo calcaneus. The plantaris is supplied by a branch from the tibial nerve. M. Soleus.—This is a flat, thick, and powerful muscle which arises from both bones of the leg, as well as from a strong fibrous arch which is thrown across the posterior tibial vessels. Its fihilar origin is from the posterior surface of the head and the proximal third of the posterior surface of the body of the bone; by its tibial origin it is attached to the linea poplitea of the tibia distal to the popliteal surface, and more distally to the medial border of the bone as far down as the middle of the leg (Fig. 104, p. 285). The soleus ends in a strong stout tendon which joins with the tendon of the gastrocnemius to form the tendo calcaneus (Achillis). Branches from the tibial fierve supply the soleus. Tendo Calcaneus (Achillis).—This is the most powerful tendon in the body. It narrows as it descends, but near the heel it again expands slightly. It is inserted into the middle portion of the posterior surface of the calcaneus. The fleshy fibres of the soleus are continued distally on its deep surface to within a short distance of the heel. A bursa mucosa intervenes between the tendo calcaneus and the proximal part of the posterior surface of the calcaneus. Dissection.—Divide the soleus muscle along its line of origin from the tibia and separate it from the fibrous arch over the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, then turn it to the lateral side and secure the branches which the muscle receives from the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries. The deep fascial septum which stretches across from the tibia to the fibula between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the leg may now be removed. In doing this note the manner in which it becomes continuous below with the ligamentum laciniatum. On no account interfere with this ligament. The posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve, with their branches, should be dissected with as little disturbance to the deep muscles as possible. The muscle which lies on the fibula is the flexor hallucis longus; the muscle on the tibia is the flexor digitorum longus ; whilst the third muscle between and on a deeper plane than the other two is the tibialis posterior. Termination of the Popliteal Artery.—The termination of the popliteal artery lies under cover of the proximal border of the soleus. It should now be cleaned, and it will be seen to end at the distal margin of the popliteus muscle by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Further, the vente comites which accompany these vessels will be observed to join at this point to form the large popliteal vein.202 INFERIOR EXTREMITY Arteria Tibialis Anterior.—The anterior tibial artery passes forwards, between the two heads of the tibialis posterior muscle, to the anterior region of the leg, where it has already been dissected. In this part of its course the anterior tibial artery gives off the posterior recurrent tibial and the superior fibular branch. The posterior recurreiit tibial is a small twig which is not always present. It runs upwards under cover of the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. The superior fibular runs laterally, on the neck of the fibula, and is dis- tributed to the muscles and integument in the neighbourhood. Arteria Tibialis Posterior.—The posterior tibial artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal trunk. It takes origin at the distal border of the popliteus muscle and ends in the hollow on the medial side of the calcaneus, under cover of the abductor hallucis, and at the level of the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum, by dividing into the lateral and medial plantar arteries. In the first instance the artery is placed between the two bones of the leg upon the tibialis posterior muscle; but as it passes distally it inclines gradually medially, and at its termination it lies midway between the prominence of the calcaneus and the medial malleolus. In its proximal two-thirds the posterior tibial artery is situated very deeply, being covered by the superficial muscles of the calf. In the distal third of the leg it appears between the tendo calcaneus and the medialborder of the tibia, and is merely covered by the integument, two layers of fascia, and lower down by the ligamentum laciniatum. Proximo-distally it rests upon the tibialis posterior, the flexor digitorum longus, the tibia, and the posterior aspect of the ankle-joint. Throughout its entire course the posterior tibial artery is closely accompanied by two vetice comites. The tibial nerve is at first on its medial side, but it soon crosses the vessel, and then proceeds distally on its lateral side. The following are the branches which issue from the posterior tibial artery :— 1. Muscular. 2. A. mUritia tibae. 3. A. perouKa. 4. Cutaneous branches. 5. Medial calcanean. 6. Ramus communicans. 7. A. jilanlaris medialis. S. A. ]5lantaris lateralis. The muscular branches supply the deep muscles on the back of the leg, and one or two of large size enter the soleus.The cutaneous branches are given to the skin on the medial aspect of the leg. Tibi.il nerve (O.T. internal popliteal nerve) Common peroneal nerve (O.T. e.xternal Popliteal artery [popliteal) Semimembranosus Lateral head of gastrocnemius Plantaris Medial head of gastrocnemius Tendon of semimembranosus Medial inferior genicular artery Lateral inferior genicular artery 1 ophteal vessels Popliteus muscle Nerve to popliteus peroneal nerve Termination of popliteal artery Soleus (cut) Tibia Fibula Posterior tibial vessel and tibial nerve roneal vessels Nutrient artery to fibula PerontEUS longus Flexor hallucis longus Tibialis posterior I* lexor digitorum longus Tibial nerve O.'J'. posterior tibial) Posterior tibial vessels Flexor hallucis longus Plexor digitorum longus Tibialis posterior Tubercle on back of talus Purs a Ligamentum laciniatum (O.T. internal annula I>g.) Tcndo calcaneus Fig. 103.—Deep Dissection of the Back of the Leg. The nutrient artery (arteria nutritia tibiae) springs from the284 INFERIOR EXTREMITY posterior tibial close to its origin, and after giving some twigs to muscles enters the nutrient foramen of the tibia. It is remarkable on account of its large size. The communicating branch is given off about an inch proximal to the distal end of the tibia. It passes transversely laterally, under cover of the flexor hallucis longus, and joins the peroneal artery. The jnedial calcanean branches pierce the ligamentum laciniatum, and accompany the nerve of the same name to the skin of the heel and the sole. The peroneal artery is a large branch which proceeds from the posterior tibial about one inch or so distal to its origin. In the present stage of the dissection it is seen running obliquely distally and laterally upon the tibialis posterior to reach the fibula. It is covered by the soleus, and is accompanied by the nerve to the flexor hallucis longus. It cannot be traced further at present, as it sinks into the substance of that muscle. Crural Part of Nervus Tibialis (O.T. Posterior Tibial Nerve).—The tibial nerve is continued from the fossa poplitea through the posterior region of the leg to the hollow between the heel and the medial malleolus where it divides into the lateral and medial plantar nerves. It accompanies the posterior tibial vessels, and presents the same relations. For a short distance, in the proximal part of the leg, it lies on the medial side of the posterior tibial artery, but it soon crosses the artery, and is then continued distally, for the remainder of its course, on the lateral side of the vessel. It supplies—(a) muscular branches to the tibialis posterior, flexor hallucis longus, and flexor digitorum longus; (b) cutaneous hvigs, the inedial calcanean braiTches, which spring from it close to its termination, and pierce the ligamentum laciniatum to reach the integument of the heel and sole of the foot; and (c) articular filaments to the ankle-joint. Deep Muscles.—The popliteus muscle will be seen lying upon the posterior aspect of the knee-joint and upon the posterior surface of the tibia proximal to the linea poplitea. Its tendon of origin lies within the capsule of the knee-joint, and can only be properly studied when that articulation is dissected. Note the strong fascia which covers the posterior surface of the popliteus, and trace it proximally and medially to the medial side of theTHE LEG 285 M. soleus knee. There it will be observed to be semimembranosus continuous with the tendon of the semi- membranosus, and through it, therefore, the semimembranosus may be regarded as having an insertion into the linea poplitea of the tibia. The flexor hallitcis Io7igiis is placed upon the posterior aspect of the fibula, and its tendon will be noticed grooving the posterior border of the talus as it passes forwards to gain the sole of the foot. The flexor digitorum longus lies upon the tibia. The tibialis posterior rests upon the interosseous membrane upon a deeper plane and between the fleshy bellies of the two flexors. Aponeurosis covering the Tibialis Posterior. — This con- stitutes the second partition which crosses the posterior osteo-fascial compartment of the leg. It is a strong aponeurosis, which is at- tached on the one hand to the medial border of the fibula, and on the other to the vertical ridge which descends from the linea poplitea on the posterior surface of the tibia. To demonstrate these attachments, the flexor muscle of the toes must be pushed medially and some of its fibres divided. The flexor hallucis longus must in like manner be pushed laterally. The aponeur- osis will then be seen to serve as a surface of origin for both of ^°4 these muscles; and, on its removal, it will also be observed to give fibres, by its deep surface, to the subjacent tibialis posterior. M. Popliteus.—The popliteus muscle arises by a stout Groove for M. tibialis | posterior 1 Groove for M. flexor hailiicis longus Posterior aspect of Bones of Leg with Attach- ments of Muscles mapped out.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 286 narrow tendon, within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of the popliteal groove on the lateral surface of the lateral condyle of the femur. The fleshy fibres are directed medially and distally, and spread out to obtain insertion into the posterior surface of the tibia above the linea poplitea, and also into the aponeurosis which covers the muscle. The nerve to the popliteus has already been seen to arise from the tibial nerve. It can now be seen hooking round the distal margin of the muscle to reach its anterior surface. M. Flexor Hallucis Longus.—The flexor hallucis longus is a powerful muscle which arises from the posterior surface of the fibula, distal to the origin of the soleus, from the posterior peroneal septum, and from the surface of the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posterior. Its tendon occupies a deep groove on the posterior border of the talus, and turns forwards under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum to gain the sole of the foot. The flexor hallucis longus is supplied by the tibial nerve. M. Flexor Digitorum Longus.—The flexor digitorum longus arises from the posterior surface of the body of the tibia, distal to the popliteus, and medial to the vertical ridge which descends from the linea poplitea. It also derives fibres from the surface of the aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posterior. After crossing the lower part of the tibialis posterior, its tendon grooves the back of the medial malleolus on the lateral side of the tendon of that muscle. It is continued under cover of the ligament laciniatum into the sole of the foot. The flexor digitorum longus is supplied by the tibial tterve. M. Tibialis Posterior (O.T. Tibialis Posticus). — This muscle takes origin from the posterior surface of the inter- osseous membrane, from the posterior part of the medial surface of the body of the fibula, from the posterior surface of the body of the tibia on the lateral side of the flexor digitorum longus, and from the aponeurosis which covers it. In Fig. 95, p. 262, the compartment which it occupies is shown in a diagrammatic manner, and the surfaces from which it takes origin are indicated. Towards the distal part of the leg the tibialis posterior inclines medially, under cover of the flexor digitorum longus, and its strong flattened tendon grooves the back of the medial malleolus to the medial side of the tendon of that muscle. Proceed- ing under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum, its tendon isTHE LEG 287 inserted into the tuber-cle of the navicular bone, and also by a number of slips into certain of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. These will be dissected later on. The tibialis posterior is supplied by the tibial nerve. Arteria Peronea.—This vessel may now be traced distally as it runs along the fibula under cover of the flexor hallucis longus. It is accompanied by two vence comites. About an inch or an inch and a half proximal to the ankle-joint it gives off its perforating branch, and then, continuing distally. , ^ , Medial calcanean qiiadratus planta; 1 vessels and nerve Abductor digit. c|umt. Q^adratus plan.® Tibialis Flexor digitoruni Posterior tibial artery / and tibial nerve ( Flexor hallucis longus Tibialis posterior Medial plantar Flexor digitorum Lateral plantar artery/ and nerve ^ Medial plantar arte Abductor hallucis Fig. 105. Dissection of the medial side of the Ankle, showing the relations of the lig. laciniatum (O.T. internal annular lig.). it passes posterior to the tibio-fibular syndesmosis and turns forwards distal to the lateral malleolus, to end on the lateral aspect of the calcaneus by breaking up into a number of lateral calcaneal branches. In addition to these it gives off— 1. Muscular branches. 2. A. nutritia fibulae. 3. Ramus communicans. The tnuscular branches supply the muscles around it. The ; nutrient artery enters the nutrient foramen on the posterior j surface of the fibula. The commimicating artery arises a short288 INFERIOR EXTREMITY distance proximal to the ankle-joint, and runs transversely medially under cover of the flexor hallucis longus to join the posterior tibial artery. The perforating bra7uh passes forwards, through the interosseous membrane, and has already been dissected in the anterior region of the leg (p. 271). Ligamentum Laciniatum (O.T. Internal Annular Liga- ment).—The connections of this thickened band of deep fascia should be carefully studied, and also the arrangement of the structures which pass under cover of it into the sole of the foot. It bridges across the hollow between the promin- ence of the calcaneus and the medial malleolus, and it is attached to both. Its chief proximal connection is with the layer of the deep fascia which intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior region of the leg, but it is also continuous with the general aponeurotic investment of the limb. Its distal margin gives origin to the abductor hallucis, and is connected with the medial portion of the plantar aponeurosis. Passing under cover of this ligament the dissector will observe—(a) the posterior tibial vessels and the tibial nerve; if) to the lateral side of these, the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus; if) to their medial side, the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus and tibialis posterior. From the medial to the lateral side these structures lie in the following order:— 1. Tendon of tibialis posterior. 2. Tendon of flexor digitorum longus. 3. Posterior tibial vessels. 4. Tibial nerve. 5. Tendon of flexor hallucis longus. The tendons are isolated from each other and from the vessels and nerve by septa, which pass from the deep surface of the laciniate ligament to ridges on the bones. These septa can be demonstrated by slitting up the ligament, for a short distance, in the line of each of the tendons: each of the three compartments will then be seen to be lined by a glistening mucous sheath. Anastomosis around the Ankle-joint.—The dissector should next satisfy himself with regard to the anastomosis of arteries which takes place around the ankle-joint. On the lateral aspect of the joint he will observe inosculations taking place between branches of the following arteries:—{a) lateralTHE LEG 289 malleolar; (/>) perforating branch of peroneal; (c) terminal part of peroneal; and (d) lateral tarsal. On the inedial aspect of the joint the medial malleolar branch of the anterior tibial anastomoses with small twigs from the medial calcanean branches of the posterior tibial. In this dissection the dissector will meet with the follow- ing structures:— 1. Superficial fascia and cutaneous vessels and nerves. 2. Plantar aponeurosis. 4. Lateral and medial plantar vessels. 5. Lateral and medial plantar nerves. 6. Tendons of flexor hallucis longus and flexor digitorum longus. 7. M. quadratus plantK and lumbrical muscles. 8. Flexor hallucis brevis. Adductor hallucis, transverse and oblique heads. 9. Flexor brevis digiti quinti. 10. Plantar arterial arch. 11. Plantar metatarsal arteries. 12. Tendons of peronreus longus and tibialis posterior. 13. Interosseous muscles. Reflection of Skin.—The limb should be placed upon the table, with the sole of the foot facing the dissector, and the ankle supported by a good- sized block. Two incisions are required—(i) a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the sole, from the heel to the root of the middle toe ; (2) a transverse cut, at the digital extremity of the medial incision, across the sole at the roots of the toes. The skin should also be reflected from the plantar surface of each of the toes. This can be done by means of a longitudinal incision along its middle line. Superficial Fascia.—When the flaps of skin which are mapped out by the above incisions are reflected, the peculiar character of the thick layer of superficial fascia becomes apparent. It is tough and granular, and in some respects resembles the superficial fascia which covers the tuber ischiadicum. Traversing it are tough fibrous bands, which subdivide the fatty tissue into small lobules, and connect the thick skin of the sole with the plantar aponeurosis. Dissection.—The medial calcanean nerves, which have already been found piercing the ligamentum laciniatum, should be tracqd to their dis- tribution. They supply the skin of the sole in the neighbourhood of the heel. SOLE OF THE FOOT. 1. Superficial muscles. VOL. I—19INFERIOR EXTREMITY 290 The superficial fascia may now be removed. Divide it along the middle line of the sole, and turn it laterally and medially, cleaning at the same Cutaneous branches from lateral plantar artery and nerve Third and fourth lumbricals Digital nerves from lateral plantar Calcaneus Medial calcanean nerve and artery Lateral part of plantar aponeurosis Cutaneous branches from medial plantar artery and nerve Intermediate part of plantar aponeurosis Medial part of plantar aponeurosis Digital nerves from '^medial plantar Fig. 106.—Superficial Dissection of the Sole of the Foot ; the Skin and Superficial Fascia alone removed. time the plantar aponeurosis. As the dissector approaches the lateral and medial margins of the foot respectively, he will observe two furrows to extend forwards on each side of the intermediate part of the plantar aponeurosis. Along the line of these a number of blood-vessels and someSOLE OF THE FOOT 291 nerves will be seen piercing the deep fascia in order to reach the skin. Towards the heads of the metatarsal bones the metatarsal arteries and the common plantar digital nerves are unprotected by the aponeurosis, and the dissector must proceed cautiously. The nerves and vessels which go to the medial side of the great toe and to the fibular side of the little toe are especially liable to injury, as they perforate the fascia farther back than the others. A band of transverse fibres, which crosses the roots of the toes and lies over the digital vessels and nerves, should be noticed. It is the superficial transverse ligament of the toes. It is closely connected with the skin where it forms the cutaneous webs between the toes. By forcibly separating the toes its connections will become evident. When the relations of this ligament have been studied it may be removed. Plantar Aponeurosis (O.T. Plantar Fascia).—The plantar aponeurosis, which is now brought into view, consists of three portions—{a) a medial, {p) an intermediate, and {c) a lateral part. This subdivision is indicated by a difference in the density of the three parts and by two shallow furrows which traverse the foot in a longitudinal direction, one upon either side of the strong intermediate portion of aponeurosis. Each of the three portions of fascia is in relation to a subjacent muscle. The intermediate portioti covers the flexor digitorum brevis; the lateral part clothes the abductor digit! quinti ; and the medial part covers the abductor hallucis. The intermediate portion of the plantar aponeurosis stands out in marked contrast to the lateral and medial portions in point of strength and density. Posteriorly, where it is attached to the medial tuberosity of the calcaneus, it is narrow, but it expands as it passes forwards, and, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, splits into five processes, which are bound together by transverse fibres. In the intervals between the digital slips the metatarsal vessels, the common digital nerves, and the lumbrical muscles appear. Trace the processes forwards. One goes to the root of each toe, and there divides into two slips, which embrace the flexor tendons and become fixed to the flexor sheaths, and to the transverse ligament of the heads of the metatarsal bones on either side of the toe. In its arrangement, there- fore, this portion of the plantar aponeurosis closely resembles the intermediate part of the palmar aponeurosis. The lateral and medial parts of the plantar aponeurosis are weak in comparison with the intermediate portion. They simply constitute aponeurotic coverings for the muscles which lie subjacent. A strong band is to be noted in connection with the lateral part. It stretches between the prominenceINFERIOR EXTREMITY 292 formed by the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the lateral tuberosity of the calcaneus. In connection with the plantar aponeurosis two ititer- muscular septa have also to be studied. These pass dorsally into the sole, along the lines of the longitudinal furrows which mark off the intermediate from the medial and lateral parts of the aponeurosis. They consequently lie one upon either side of the flexor digitorum brevis, and form partitions which separate it from the abductor hallucis on the one side, and the abductor digiti quinti on the other. Dissection.—To demonstrate these septa, make a transverse incision through the intermediate portion of the plantar aponeurosis, about an inch in front of the medial tuberosity of the calcaneus, and also a longitudinal cut through the same piece of aponeurosis, extending from the first incision along the middle line of the foot. Now raise the divided fascia and throw it laterally and medially. Some difficulty will be experienced in effecting ' this, owing to its affording a surface of origin, in its posterior part, to the subjacent flexor digitorum brevis. As the margins of this muscle are approached the septa are brought into view. Muscles and Tendons of the Sole.—It is customary to look upon the muscles and tendons which we find in the dissection of the sole as being disposed in four strata, viz. :— f Abductor hallucis. Flexor digitorum brevis, f Abductor digiti quinti. (Tendon of flexor digitorum longus. M. quadratus plantre. Lumbrical muscles. Tendon of flexor hallucis longus. I Flexor hallucis brevis. 1 Adductor hallucis, oblique and transverse heads. ( Flexor brevis digiti quinti. I ( Interosseous muscles. Tendon of the peronteus longus. ^Tendon of the tibialis posterior. Dissection.—The lateral and medial portions of the plantar aponeurosis should be raised from the subjacent muscles. The three superficial muscles of the sole are then exposed to view and their connections can be studied. The pexor digitorum brerois is placed intermediately, the abductor digiti quinti extends along the lateral margin of the sole, and the abductor hallucis along the medial margin of the sole. In the interval between the abductor hallucis and flexor digitorum brevis the medial plantar nerve and artery will be found. Follow the nerve toward the toes and dissect out its four common digital branches. In doing so, care must be taken of the muscular twigs which are given to the flexor hallucis brevis and the most medial lumbrical muscle. Slender branches of the medial plantar artery accompany the common digital nerves. Now trace the trunk of the medial plantar nerve posteriorly, by carefully separating the flexor digitorum brevis First layer. Second layer. Third layer. Fourth layer.293 SOLE OF THE FOOT and the abductor hallucis along the line of the medial intermuscular septum. It will be found to give a branch of supply to each of these muscles. In the next place, separate the contiguous borders of the flexor digitorum brevis and abductor digiti quinti. The lateral plantar artery and nerve lie, for a short portion of their course, in the interval between these muscles. Approaching the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal bone the artery disappears from view, by turning medially under cover of the flexor tendons. At the same point the lateral plantar nerve divides Flexor digitorum brevis Abductor hallucis Quadratus planta; Abductor digiti quinti Tibialis Peronxus longus Tibialis posterior Flexor hallucis brevis posterior Peronmus brevis Plantar interossei . brevis dig. quinti Adductor hallucis part) Fig. 107.—Plantar aspect of the Tarsus and Metatarsus with Attachments of Muscles mapped out. into its superficial and deep divisions. The deep division of the lateral plantar nerve and the deep part of the lateral plantar artery cannot be dissected at present. The superficial division of the nerve, however, should be traced to its distribution. M. Flexor Digitorum Brevis.—This muscle arises from the medial tubercle of the calcaneus, from the deep surface of the intermediate part of the plantar aponeurosis, and from the intermuscular septum on either side of it. About the middle of the sole the fleshy belly divides into four slips, which end I—19 (tINFERIOR EXTREMITY 294 in slender tendons for the four lateral toes. These enter the fibrous flexor sheaths of the toes, and will be afterwards studied. The flexor digitorum brevis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. M. Abductor Hallucis.—The abductor hallucis takes origin from the medial aspect of the medial tubercle of the'calcaneus, from the medial intermuscular septum, from the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum, and from the medial part of the plantar aponeurosis which covers it. A strong tendon issues from the fleshy belly. This is joined, on its lateral and deep surface, by fibres of the medial head of the flexor hallucis brevis, and it is inserted into the medial aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. The abductor hallucis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. M. Abductor Digiti Quinti (O.T. Abductor Minimi Digiti).— The origin of this muscle extends medially under cover of the flexor digitorum brevis. The latter muscle must there- fore be detached from the calcaneus and turned fonvards. The abductor digiti quinti is then seen to have a broad origin from both the medial and lateral tubercles of the calcaneus, from the lateral intermuscular septum, and the lateral part of the plantar aponeurosis which covers it. Its tendon is inserted into the lateral aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. The abductor digiti quinti is supplied by the lateral phmtar nerve. Dissection.—The origin of the abductor hallucis from the calcaneus and from the ligamentum laciniatum should be divided and the muscle turned medially. With a little dissection the mode and place of origin of the platitar arteries and nerves will be made manifest. They are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial aHery and tibial nerve, and they arise in the hollow of the calcaneus under pover of the origin of the abductor hallucis. But further, the lateral plantar artery and ne>"ve may now be traced as they pass laterally upon the (]uadratus planta: to the point where they were first seen—viz. in the interval between the abductor digiti cpiinti and the flexor digitorum brevis. In following the lateral plantar nerve, the branches which it gives to the (piadrate plantar muscle and the abductor digiti (piinti must be secured. The latter nerve lies close to the tubercle of the calcaneus. Art. Plantaris Medialis (O.T. Internal Plantar Artery). —This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery. It arises in the hollow between the medial malleolus and the prominence of the calcaneus, at or proximal to the distal border of the ligamentum laciniatum. At first it is placed under cover of the abductor hallucis, butSOLE OF THE FOOT 295 as it proceeds forwards it appears in the interval between this muscle and the flexor digitorum brevis. Finally, at the root of the great toe it ends by joining the plantar digital artery to the medial side of the hallux. The branches which proceed from the medial plantar are small but very numerous. They are—(i) three twigs which accompany the common digital branches of the medial plantar nerve to the clefts between the four medial toes—these end by joining the corresponding metatarsal arteries; (2) a series of cutaneous branches to the skin of the sole, which pierce the aponeurosis in the furrow between its medial and inter- mediate parts; (3) a number of branches to the muscles in the vicinity; (4) som.e offsets which pass medially under cover of the abductor hallucis to reach the medial border of the foot. Art. Plantaris Lateralis (O.T. External Plantar Artery). —This vessel is much larger than the medial plantar. It is accompanied by the lateral plantar nerve and two vence comites. From its origin in the hollow of the calcaneus it proceeds laterally, across the sole, to reach the interval between the flexor digitorum brens and the abductor digiti quinti. In this interval it is continued forwards for a short distance, and then, at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it turns suddenly to the medial side, and crosses the sole a second time, under cover of the flexor tendons, forming the plantar arch. In the present stage of the dissection it is only displayed as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Between its origin and this point its relations are as follows:—(i) It is placed between the abductor hallucis and the hollow of the calcaneus ; (2) it lies between the flexor digitorum brevis and the quad- ratus plantre; (3) it occupies the interval between the flexor digitorum brevis and the abductor digiti quinti. In this latter situation it is near the surface, and is merely covered by the integument and fasciae. The branches which proceed from this part of the vessel are —(i) twigs to the neighbouring muscles; (2) medial calcanean branches which arise near its origin, and gain the heel by piercing the origin of the abductor hallucis; (3) cutaneous branches which appear through the plantar aponeurosis along the line of the lateral intermuscular septum; (4) twigs to the lateral margin of the foot which anastomose with the tarsal and arcuate branches of the dorsalis pedis.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 296 Nervus Plantaris Medialis (O.T. Internal Plantar Nerve). —The medial plantar nerve is the larger of the two terminal branches of the tibial nerve. It takes origin in the hollow of the calcaneus under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum. It accompanies the medial plantar artery, and presents the same relations. After it emerges from under cover of the abductor hallucis, it gives off the proper digital branch to the medial side of the hallux, and then ends, in the interval between the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis, by dividing into three common digital branches. The branches of the medial plantar nerve are :— 1. Cutaneous twigs to the skin of the sole. 2. Muscular branches. 3. Proper digital branch to medial side of great toe. 4. Three common digital branches. The cutaneous twigs to the integument of the sole spring from the trunk of the nerve, and pierce the aponeurosis in the line of the medial intermuscular septum. The proper digital 7ierve to the great toe supplies the medial side of that toe. The three common digital branches pass to the proximal ends of the three medial interdigital clefts, where each divides into two proper digital branches. The proper digital branches of the most medial common digital nerve supply the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, those of the second common digital nerve supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, and the proper digital branches of the third common digital supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes. From the third common digital branch of the medial plantar nerve a communication is given to the superficial part of the lateral plantar nerve. The digital distribution of the medial plantar nerve in the foot closely resembles the median nerve in the hand. The proper digital nerves should be traced along the toes. They are arranged in a manner very similar to that of the corresponding nerves of the fingers. The ?nuscular bratiches go to four muscles of the sole, viz. the abductor hallucis, the flexor digitorum brevis, the flexor hallucis brevis, and the most medial or first lumbrical muscle. The branches which supply the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis arise from the trunk of the medial plantar nerve a short distance from its origin. The otherliG. io8.-Dissection of the Sole of the Foot ; the Flexor Digitoruni Brevis has been reflected. nerve: the former supplies the flexor hallucis brevis: the latter supplies the first lumbrical. I SOLE OF THE FOOT 297 tvvo spring one from the proper digital nerve to the medial side of the great toe, and the other from the first common digital Abductor hallucis Tendon of fle.vor digitorum longus Tendon of flexor hallucis longus Flexor hrevis digit! quiini Limihricals Flexor hallucis brevis Quadratus planta; Peronteus longus Abductor digit! quinti Flexor digitorum brevis Twig from lateral plantar nerve to quadratus planta; I Lateral plantar /artery and nerve 1 Medial plantar j artery and nerveINFERIOR EXTREMITY 298 Nervus Plantaris Lateralis (O.T. External Plantar Nerve). —The lateral plantar nerve corresponds to the ulnar nerve in the palm of the hand. It accompanies the lateral plantar artery and presents the same relations. In the interval between the abductor digiti quinti and the flexor digitorum brevis, opposite the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it divides into a deep and a superficial part. The deep division follows the plantar arch under cover of the flexor tendons. The superficial division divides into a proper and a common digital branch. From the trunk of the lateral plantar nerve proceed two muscular branches, viz. to the quadratus plantee and to the abductor digiti quinti. The first or lateral proper digital branch of the superficial part of the lateral plantar nerve goes to the lateral side of the little toe. It also gives muscular twigs to the flexor brevis digiti quinti and the interosseous muscles in the fourth intermetatarsal space. The second conmton digital branch divides into two proper digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the fourth toe and little toe. It likewise sends a twig of com- munication to the third common digital branch of the medial plantar nerve. Dissection.—The abductor digiti quinti should be completely detached from its origin, and turned forwards in order that a good display may be obtained of the structures composing the second stratum of the sole. Second Layer of Muscles and Tendons.—As the tendon of the fiexor hallucis longus enters the sole it grooves the under surface of the sustentaculum tali and inclines medially towards the great toe. The tendon of the fiexor digitorum longus, on the other hand, inclines laterally to reach the middle of the foot, where it divides into four tendons for the four lateral toes. Moreover, the tendons of these two muscles cross each other in the sole—the tendon of the flexor digitorum lying upon the plantar or superficial surface of the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus, and receiving from it a strong tendinous slip. Sir William Turner has called attention to the fact that this slip, which passes from the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, varies greatly in magnitude and in the manner in which it is connected with the flexor tendons of the toes. In the majority of cases it goes to the tendons of the second and third toes ; in some cases, however, only to the tendon of the second toe, or to the tendons of Uie second, third, and fourth toes. Very rarely does it divide so as to bringSOLE OF THE FOOT 299 all the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus into connection with the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus. The musculus quadratics plantic which is inserted into the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, and also the four lumbrical muscles which arise from the flexor tendons, can now be distinguished. Note the position of the long plantar ligament between the two heads of origin of the quadratus plantae. Fibrous Flexor Sheaths. —Before tracing the flexor tendons forwards on the toes, it is necessary to ex- amine the sheaths which retain them upon the plantar aspect of the phalanges. In their con- struction these fibrous sheaths are precisely simi- lar to the corresponding sheaths of the fingers. They are not so strongly marked, but they present the same thickenings over the shafts of the phalanges and the same want of strength opposite the inter- phalangeal joints. They may now be opened in order that the enclosed tendons may be examined. A mucous sheath is present in each to facilitate the play of the flexor tendons within them (see p. 123). Insertions of the Flexor Tendons. — Two tendons, one from the flexor digitorum brevis and one from the flexor digitorum longus, enter the flexor sheath of each of the four lateral toes. Of these, the tendon of the former muscle corresponds with a tendon of the flexor sublimis in the hand, whilst the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus corresponds with a tendon of the flexor profundus. Further, they are inserted in exactly the same manner. The tendon of the flexor brevis, which is the more superficial, divides into two Calcaneus ••• F'lexor hallucis longus Flexor digitorum longus Quadratus plantae (O.T. accessorius) Lumbricals Fio. 109.—Second layer of Muscles and 'I endons in the Sole of the Foot.300 INFERIOR EXTREMITY slips, and between these the tendon of the flexor longus proceeds forwards to its insertion into the plantar aspect of the base of the ungual phalanx. The two slips of the tendon of the flexor brevis are joined by their margins on the deep surface of the long flexor tendon, and then separate again to obtain insertion into the sides of the shaft of the second phalanx about its middle. Tendon of the Flexor Hallucis Longus.—After giving its slip to the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus, the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus is prolonged forwards to the great toe. On the plantar aspect of the hallux it is retained in place by a flexor sheath, and finally it is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. M. Quadratus Plantae (O.T. Flexor Accessorius).—This muscle takes a course straight forwards from the heel, and acts as a direct flexor of the toes. It also tends to bring the tendons of the long flexor muscle into a line with the toes upon which they operate. It arises by two heads which embrace the calcaneus and the long plantar ligament. The ?!iedial head^ wide and fleshy, springs from the medial concave surface of the calcaneus; the lateral head, narrow, pointed, and tendinous, takes origin from the lateral surface of that bone, and also from the long plantar ligament. The quadratus plantse is inserted into the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus in the middle of the sole. It is supplied by a branch from the lateral plantar nerve. Mm. Lumbricales.—-The lumbrical muscles of the foot are not so strong as the corresponding muscles in the palm of the hand. They are four in number, and arise from the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus. The three lateral lumbricals spring from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie ; the first or most medial muscle takes origin from the medial side of the tendon of the long flexor which goes to the second toe. The slender tendons of the lumbrical muscles proceed to the medial sides of the four lateral toes, and are inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the proximal phalanges. The first or most medial lumbrical is supplied by the medial plantar nerve: the others by the lateral pla7itar nerve. Dissection.—To bring the third layer of muscles into view the following dissection must be made :—Divide the two heads of the quadratus plantaj and draw the muscle forwards from under the lateral plantar vessels and301 SOLE OF THE FOOT nerve. Sever also the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus and the fle.xor hallucis longus at the point where they emerge from under cover of the ligamentum laciniatum. Upon cutting the branch which is given by the lateral plantar nerve to the quadratus plantse these structures can be thrown forwards towards the toes. On raising the lumbrical muscles, the twigs which are furnished to the second, third, and fourth by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve must be looked for. That for the second lumbrical muscle will be seen to take a recurrent course around the transverse head of the adductor hallucis muscle. Lastly, cut the medial plantar nerve close to its origin and turn it aside. Third Layer of Muscles.—The flexor hallucis brevis lies along the lateral side of the abductor hallucis. The oblique head of the adductor hallucis (O.T. oblique adductor of the great toe) has a very oblique position in the sole, and hides to a great extent the interosseous muscles. It lies to the lateral side of the flexor hallucis brevis. The transverse head of the adductor hallucis (O.T. transverse adductor of the great toe) is placed transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The flexor brevis digiti quinti (O.T. minimi digiti) may be recognised from its lying upon the fifth metatarsal bone. The deep division of the lateral plantar nerve and the plantar arterial arch are partially exposed, but they will be more fully displayed at a later stage. M. Flexor HaUucis Brevis.—This muscle arises from the os cuboideum and from the slip from the tendon of the tibialis posterior muscle which goes to the intermediate and lateral cuneiform bones. It is narrow and tendinous at its origin, but it soon divides into two separate fleshy bellies, which are ultimately inserted upon either side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. In the tendons of insertion two large sesamoid bones are developed. The medial head of the flexor hallucis brevis is closely connected with the tendon of the abductor hallucis, and is inserted in common with it. The flexor hallucis brevis is supplied by the medial plantar nerve. ' Adductor Hallucis (O.T. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis and (Adductor Transversus Hallucis).—I'he adductor hallucis consists of two separate portions called the oblique and the transverse heads of thetnuscle. The oblique head (adductor obliquus hallucis) arises from the sheath of the peronteus .t longus muscle and from the bases of the second, third, and It fourth metatarsal bones. It tapers as it approaches the root rINFERIOR EXTREME!'Y 302 flexor hallucis brevis, into the lateral aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. It is supplied by the Origin of abductor digit! quinti Origin of flexor digitorum brevis Long plantar ligament Lateral plantar artery' and nerve Medial plantar arterj' and nerv^ hallucis i Quadratus plantte Flexor digitorum longiis Flexor hallucis longus Peronmus longus Lateral plantar artery and nerve Flexor brevis digit! quinti Adductor hallucis, oblique head Flexor hallucis brevis Adductor hallucis, trans- verse head Lumbricals I.'k;. no. Deep Dissection of the Foot ; the Superficial Muscles nnd .ulso the Flexor Tendons, etc., have been removed. deep division of the lateral plantar nerve. 1 he transverse head springs by a series of slips from the plantar metatarso-SOLE OF THE FOOT 303 phalangeal ligaments of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and proceeds transversely medially, under cover of the flexor tendons, to find insertion into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe, in common with the oblique head. Its nerve of supply comes from the deep division of the lateral phmtar nerve. Flexor Brevis Digiti Quinti (O.T. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti).—The flexor brevis digiti quinti is a single fleshy slip, which springs from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peronaeus longus tendon. It is inserted into the lateral side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. Its nerve of supply comes from the sttperficial divisio7i of the lateral plantar 7ierve. Dissectio>i.—The oblique head of the adductor hallucis and the flexor hallucis brevis must now be detached from their origins and thrown forwards, in order that the entire length of the plantar, arterial arch, and the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve, may be displayed. In raising the oblique head of the adductor hallucis the branch which is given to it by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve must be secured and retained. Arcus Plantaris (Plantar Arch).—'bhe plantar arterial arch is the continuation of the lateral plantar artery across the sole of the foot. It runs from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone to the base of the first interosseous space, where it is joined by the terminal plantar portion of the dorsalis pedis artery. The arch is deeply placed ; it rests against the interosseous muscles close to the proximal ends of the metatarsal bones, and it is concealed by the flexor tendons, the lumbrical muscles, and the oblique head of the adductor hallucis. It is accompanied by the deep division of the lateral plantar nerve and by two venae comites. The branches which proceed from the arch are:— 1. Articular. 2. Posterior perforating. 3. Second, third, and fourth plantar metatarsal arteries. 4. Plantar digital artery to the lateral side of the little toe. The articular branches rise from the concavity of the arch, and run posteriorly to supply the tarsal joints. The posterior perforati/ig bra7iches are three in number. They pass dorsally through the posterior ends of the three lateral intermetatarsal spaces and between the heads of the corresponding dorsal interosseous muscles. Each ends on theINFERIOR EXTREMITY 304 dorsum of the foot by joining the corresponding dorsal meta- tarsal artery. The second^ third, and foiirth plantar inetatarsal arteries run forwards in the second, third, and fourth intermetatarsal spaces, pass dorsal to the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and at the proximal end of the corresponding interdigital cleft each plantar metatarsal artery ends by dividing into two plantar digital arteries. The plantar digital branches of the second plantar metatarsal artery supply the adjacent sides of the second and third toes, those of the third supply the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, and the plantar digital branches of the third plantar metatarsal artery supply the adjacent sides of the fourth and fifth toes. Immediately before it divides, each plantar metatarsal artery sends dorsally an anterior perforating artery which joins the corresponding dorsal metatarsal artery. Upon the sides of the toes the plantar digital arteries are distributed in exactly the same manner as the proper digital arteries of the fingers (see p. rr8). The plantar digital branch to the lateral border of the little toe springs from the lateral extremity of the plantar arch, crosses the plantar surface of the flexor brevis digiti quinti, and runs forward to the terminal end of the toe. The First Plantar Metatarsal Artery (O.T. Arteria Magna Hallucis) corresponds with the arteria volaris indicis radialis and the arteria princeps pollicis of the hand. It rises from the plantar extremity of the dorsalis pedis, at the point where the latter joins the plantar arch, and runs forwards to the cleft between the great toe and the second toe, where it divides into two plantar digital branches for the supply of the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Before it divides, it gives off a plantar digital branch to the medial side of the great toe which is joined by the terminal part of the medial plantar artery. Deep Division of the Lateral Plantar Nerve.—This ac- companies the plantar arch in its course medialwards across the sole, and ends in the deep surface of the oblique head of the adductor hallucis. In addition to this muscle it supplies all the interosseous muscles (with the exception of those in the fourth space), the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and the three lateral lumbrical muscles, The twig to the second lumbrical takes a recurrent course around theSOLE OF I'HE FOOT 305 anterior border of the transverse head of the adductor hallucis. Transverse Ligament of the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones.—The transverse head of the adductor hallucis should now be detached from its origin and thrown medially towards Nerve to ist Nerve to flexor hallucis Dorsalis pedis artery Medial plantar artery Medial plantar Nerve to flexor digitorum brevis Nerve to abductor hallucis Nerve to quadratus plantar Posterior tibial artery Nerve to flexor brevis digiti quinti Nerve to interossei of 4th space perficial division of lateral plantar nerve Deep division of lateral plantar nerve Lateral plantar nerve Lateral plantar artery Nerve to abductor digiti quinti Plantar arch Fig. m.—Arteries and Nerves of the Sole of the Foot. (Diagram.) The plantar nerves and their branches are tinted green. the hallux. This brings into view the transverse ligament of the heads of the metatarsal bones—a strong fibrous band which stretches across the heads of the five metatar-sal bones. It is attached to the plantar accessory ligaments of the meta- tarso-phalangeal joints. It differs from the corresponding ligament of the hand, inasmuch as it includes within its grasp the metatarsal bone of the hallux. VOL. I—20INFERIOR EXTREMITY 3o6 Dissection.—A satisfactory display of the interosseous muscles cannot be obtained unless the transverse ligament be divided betvvfeen the heads of the metatarsal bones. The toes can now be separated more freely from each other, and the interosseous muscles traced to their insertions. It is well also to reflect, at this stage, the flexor brevis digiti quinti. Interosseous Muscles.—The plantar uiterosseous muscles are three in number, and are so placed that they adduct the three lateral toes towards a line drawn through the second toe. They arise from the plantar aspects of the three lateral metatarsal bones, and each is inserted upon the medial side of the first phalanx of the corresponding toe. The dorsal inter- osseous muscles are four in number. They occupy the four inter- metatarsal spaces, and consequently they must be dissected both upon the plantar and dorsal aspects of the foot. They are arranged so as to abduct the second, third, and fourth toes from a line drawn through the second toe. They are inserted, therefore, as follows : the first the medial side of the second toe; the second upon the lateral side of the same toe; the third upon the lateral side of the third toe; and the fourth upon the lateral side of the fourth toe. The slender tendons of the interosseous muscles are only very slightly attached to the bases of the proximal phalanges. They are for the most part inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendons on the dorsal aspect of the toes. Tendon of the Tibialis Posterior.—Before leaving the sole of the foot the dissector must determine the precise insertions of the tendons of the tibialis posterior and of the peronteus longus. The tendon of the tibialis posterior is not merely inserted into the tubercle of the navicular bone. Fibrous slips are seen to spread out from it, and these may be traced to every bone of the tarsus with the exception of the talus, and also to the bases of the second, third, and fourth meta- tarsal bones. As it lies under and gives support to the head of the talus, the tendon of the tibialis posterior has developed within it a sesamoid nodule of fibro-cartilage, or perhaps a sesamoid bone. Tendon of the Peronseus Longus.—The tendon of the peronaeus longus turns round the lateral margin of the foot, and runs medially, across the sole, in the groove on the plantar surface of the cuboid bone, to reach the base of the first metatarsal bone. As it traverses the sole it is enclosed in a fibrous sheath. This sheath is mainly formed by fibres derived from the long plantar ligament. Open the sheath307 SOLE OF THE FOOT I—20 « and its smooth, glistening internal surface will be displayed. This appearance is due to the synovial merhbrane which lines it. The tendon is inserted into the plantar part of the base of the first metatarsal bone, and also to a slight degree into the adjacent part of the medial or first cuneiform bone. It likewise, in some cases, sends a slip to the base of the second metatarsal bone. As the tendon winds Adductor halluds (oblique head) round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains a nodule of fibro-cartilage, or perhaps a sesamoid bone. Dissection.—The dis- section of the sole of the foot is brought to an end by disarticulating the proximal end of the first metatarsal bone. A good view is thus obtained of the continuity between the dorsalis pedis artery and the plantar arch. Peronzeus longus Tibialis posterior Flexor digi- torum longus Flexor hallucis longus Fig. 112.—The insertions of the Tibialis Posterior and Peronaeus Longus Muscles in the Right Foot. (Paterson.) Anastomosis around the Knee- joint.—The most im- portant of the anas- tomoses around the knee-joint are placed on the anterior aspect of the articulation, . and take the form of three transverse arches. The uppermost of these arterial arcades passes through the superficial fibres of the quadriceps extensor, close to the proximal border of the patella, and is formed by the union of a branch from the superior lateral genicular artery with another from the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema. The middle and lower transverse arches are both placed under cover of the ligamentum patellte. The middle arch runs across in the fatty tissue close to the distal end of the patella. It is formed by the inferior lateral genicular artery, and a branch which results from the union of a twig from theINFERIOR EXTREMITY ;o8 arteria genu suprema, and another from the superior medial genicular artery. The lowest arch lies on the tibia, immedi- ately above its tuberosity, and results from the anastomosis of the anterior recurrent tibial and inferior medial genicular arteries. The upper and middle of these transverse arches are connected, on each side of the patella, by ascending and descending branches, which anastomose with one another, and thus enclose the patella in an irregularly quadrilateral arterial framework. From all sides of this arterial enclosure, twigs are given off which enter small Superior medial artery of the knee Vastus lateralis Deep branch of arteria genu suprema Vastus medialis Ligamentum patellge Medial meniscus Rectus femoris I’iceps femoris Superior lateral arter)' of the knee Patella Fibular collateral ligament Head of fibula Anterior recurrent tibial artery Anterior tibial artery Ligamentum patellae Inferior medial artery of the knee Tibial collateral ligament Fibulae collateral ligament Inferior lateral artery of the knee Fig. 113.—Anastomosis pn the front of the Left Knee-joint. foramina on the anterior surface of the patella to supply the osseous substance. Six arteries therefore take part in the formation of this system of anastomoses, on the front and lateral aspects of the joint, viz. the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema, the two superior and the two inferior genicular branches of the popliteal, and the anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. In addition to the twigs which proceed from these, to form the arterial arches, numerous branches are given which spread over the bones in the form of a close meshwork. During the dissection of the articula- tion these vessels will become apparent. The knee-joint is supplied on its posterior aspect by twigs derived from all the genicular branches of the popliteal. These twigs are variable inTHE KNEE-JOINT 309 their origin, and the anastomoses which are formed between them are unimportant and inconstant. They are sometimes supplemented by another artery, the posterior recurrent tibial. This small vessel is a branch which rises from the anterior tibial before it leaves the back of the leg. It ascends anterior to the popliteus muscle, ramifies over the distal part of the oblique popliteal ligament, and inosculates with the two inferior genicular branches of the popliteal. The tnedian genicular artery is chiefly destined for the supply of the interior of the joint. It pierces the oblique popiteal ligament, passes forwards between the crucial ligaments, and ramifies in the fatty tissue in that situation. Its terminal twigs usually anastomose with the middle arch in front of the knee-joint. It will be dissected at a later stage in the interior of the joint. Articular Nerves of the Knee-Joint.—The knee-joint is richly supplied with nerves. No less than ten distinct branches may be traced to it. The femoral nerve, the common peroneal, and the tibial nerve trunks contribute three twigs apiece to this articulation, and the obturator furnishes a filament to its posterior aspect. The femoral nerve supplies the joint through branches which proceed from the nerves to the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, and m. articularis genu. These nerves pierce the fibres of the quadriceps muscle, and are distributed to the proximal and anterior part of the articulation. The articular branch from the nerve to the vastus medialis is of larger size than the other two, and it accompanies the articular branch of the arteria genu suprema. The cotnmon peroneal nerve gives off—(i) the superior and inferior lateral genicular nerves : these accompany the arteries of the same name, and end in fine filaments, which pierce the capsule of the joint; and (2) the recurrent articular nerve which accompanies the anterior recurrent tibial artery. This nerve ends chiefly in the tibialis anterior muscle; but a fine twig may reach the distal part of the anterior aspect of the knee-joint. The tibial nerve furnishes the knee-joint with superior and inferior medial genicular branches and a median genicular nerve, which accompany the arteries of the same names. The branch from the obturator nerve descends on the posterior aspect of the popliteal artery as far as the back of the knee-joint. At this point it leaves the artery and, inclining forwards, breaks up into several filaments which pierce the oblique popliteal ligament separately. 1—20 6310 INFERIOR EXTREMITY ARTICULATIONS. The dissection of the knee-joint, the ankle-joint, the tibio- fibular joints, and the various articulations of the foot, may now be proceeded with. It is possible that the ligaments may have become hard and dry. If this be the case, soak the joints in water for an hour or two. Articulatio Genu (Knee-Joint). In the knee-joint three bones are in apposition, viz. the distal end of the femur, the proximal end of the tibia, and the patella. It is the largest and most com- plicated articulation in the body; and, if the bones be examined in the skeleton, the joint presents an apparent insecurity, because the bony surfaces show little adaptation the one to the other. In reality, however, the knee-joint is very strong, and very rarely suffers dislocation on account of the strength of the ligaments which retain the bones in place. The ligaments on the exterior of the joint are:— 1. The capsular ligament. 2. Two collateral ligaments—fibular and tibial. 3. The ligamentum patellm (or anterior ligament). 4. The oblique popliteal ligament. Dissection.—The popliteal vessels, tibial and common peroneal nerves, and the muscles surrounding the knee-joint, must be removed. Portions of the tendons of the biceps femoris, semimembranosus, sartorius, semitendi- nosus, gracilis, and popliteus, together with small pieces of the heads of the gastrocnemius, should be left in place in order that their connections with the ligaments of the joint may be studied. The quadriceps extensor may be divided about three inches proximal to the patella, and the distal part allowed to remain in position. Further, the various genicular arteries which surround the joint should be followed to their terminations. Capsula Articularis.—The capsule of the knee-joint, together with the tibial collateral ligament and the oblique popliteal ligament, form a complete investment for the joint. In some places the fibrous or peripheral part of the capsule has disappeared and has been replaced either by bone and cartilage or by tendon, and in other places it has been strengthened and extended by the incorporation of adjacent portions of fascia and tendons, thus anteriorly the patella entirely replaces a portion of the capsule and above the patella the capsule is merely represented by the stratumARTICULATIONS 311 t synoviale covering the posterior surface of the tendon of the I cjuadriceps muscle j on the other hand the antero-medial and V the antero-lateral parts of the capsule have been strengthened, t by fusion with expansions from the vasti portions of the quadriceps and with the superjacent parts of the fascia lata. Patellar surface of femur Ligt. patellae Opening in inter- osseous membrane for- anterior tibial vessels Medial perpendicular facet on patella Semilunar facet for patella Medial dbial surface Posterior crucial ligament Fibular collateral ligament Tendon of biceps femoris Anterior superior )io-fibular ligament Fibular collateral ligament Impression of lateral meniscus Lateral tibial crucial ligament Transverse ligt. Medial meniscus Tibial collateral . ligament Fig. 114.—Dissection of Knee-joint from the front. The Patella has been thrown down. The position and attachments of the original capsule are still indicated, in the adult, by the synovial membrane which forms a continuous enclosing membrane excepit in the region of the patella. Ligamentum Patellae.—This is a strong reinforcing band situated in relation to the distal and anterior part of the capsule. It constitute.s, at the same time, the tendon ofINFERIOR EXTREMITY 312 insertion of the quadriceps extensor muscle. Its anterior surfaces and margins should be carefully defined. The ligamentufn patella is a strong band, about two inches long, which is attached proximally to the apex and distal border of the patella, and distally to the proximal part of the l tuberosity of the tibia. Its superficial fibres are directly continuous over the surface of the patella with the central part of the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor. Its deep surface is separated proximally from the synovial mem- brane by the infrapatellar pad of fat, and distally it is separated from the anterior surface of the proximal end of the tibia by the deep infrapatellar bursa. Dissection.—The fibular collateral ligament may be exposed by removing the fascia lata which covers it, and ‘ by carefully cleaning the tendon of insertion of the biceps femoris. By this proceeding the inferior lateral genicular artery will be displayed as it extends forwards to the front of the joint. Ligamentum Collaterale Fibulare (O.T. External Lateral Ligament).—This is rounded and cord-like. It stands well away from the joint cavity, and is attached proximally to a tubercle on the lateral tuberosity of the femur. Distally, it is fixed to a depression on the head of the fibula anterior to the apex. It is closely associated with the tendon of the biceps femoris and the tendon of the popliteus. It splits the tendon of the biceps into two pieces, and extends distally between them to its fibular attachment. The tendon of the popliteus takes origin from the lateral condyle of the femur distally and anteriorly to the femoral attachment of the fibular collateral ligament. As the tendon proceeds backwards it is placed under cover of the ligament. An additional slip is sometimes described as the posterior part of the fibular collateral ligament. When present it ends above in the capsule, under cover of the lateral head of the gastrocnemius. Below, it is im- planted into the apex of the head of the fibula. Ligamentum Collaterale Tibiale (O.T. Internal Lateral Liga- ment).—The tibial collateral ligament is a long, flat band. Fibulae collateral ligament Popliteus Lateral meniscus Biceps femoris Fig. 115.—The Fibular Collateral Ligament of the Knee-joint.313 ARTICULATIONS broader in the middle than at either extremity, which springs from the medial condyle of the femur distal to the adductor tubercle. As it descends it inclines slightly forwards, and finally it gains attachment to the margin of the medial condyle and to the proximal part of the body of the tibia below the medial condyle. The main part of the tendon of the semimembranosus extends anteriorly under cover of its posterior border to gain an insertion into the medial condyle of the tibia, whilst more distally the inferior medial genicular vessels are carried forwards between it and the bone. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus, lie upon its superficial surface, but are separated from it by an intervening bursa. The Posterior Part of the Capsule and the Ligamentum PopliteumOhliquumfO.T. Posterior Ligament).—The posterior part of the capsule extends as a continuous sheet across the posterior aspect of the joint; laterally it is continuous with the lateral part of the capsule, which lies medial to the fibular collateral ligament, and medially it fuses with the lateral surface of the. tibial collateral ligament as the latter crosses the line of the joint. The lateral head of the gastrocnemius fuses with the proximal part of its lateral portion, and the tendon of the popliteus passes through the distal part of the same portion. The medial part of the posterior portion of the capsule is separated from the medial head of the gastrocnemius by a bursa which communicates medially with the bursa which intervenes between the medial head of the gastro- cnemius and the semimembranosus, and it may communicate anteriorly with the cavity of the joint, through an aperture in the capsule. The intermediate part of the posterior portion of the capsule forms part of the anterior boundary of the fossa poplitea, and is strengthened by a strong oblique band, the oblique popliteal ligafuent, which passes proximo-laterally from the distal part of the tendon of the semimembranosus to the medial border of the lateral condyle of the femur. In addition to the apertures through which the bursa anterior to the medial head of the gastrocnemius com- municates with the cavity of the joint, and that through which the tendon of the popliteus emerges, there are several small apertures in the posterior part of the capsule for the trans- mission of vessels into the interior of the joint. Dissection,—A vertical incision should be made into the joint on either3M INFERIOR EXTREMITY side of the patella and ligamentum patellae, in order that the common extensor tendon and the patella may be thrown distally over the proximal end of the tibia. The joint is now opened from the front, and the parts in the interior may be observed. Popliteal fascia Popliteus muscle (cut) Popliteal surface of femur Fibular collateral iganient Fibular collateral Popliteus muscle (cut) Biceps femoris muscle (cut) of fibula surface of tibia Tendon of adductor magnus muscle (cut) Medial head of gas- trocnemius Oblique popliteal ligament Bursa beneath tendon of semimembranosus Tendon of semimem- branosus muscle (cut) Oblique popliteal liga- ment Tibial collateral ligament Plantaris muscle (cut) Lateral head of gastro- cnen)ius (cut) Fig. ii6.—The Knee-joint. Posterior view. I Interior of the Joint.—First note the great pad of soft faj which is placed on the deep surface of the ligamentum patellae.j In vertical section this fatty mass is triangular in form (Fig. 117).! It is termed the mfra-patellar pad, and it fills up the intervaj between the patella, femur, and tibia, and adapts itself t(^ the varied forms which this recess adopts in the differenj movements of the joint. It is separated from the interio^ of the joint by a covering of synovial membrane, and fronil its surface a band of this membrane extends posteriorly ancj proximally to the anterior margin of the intercondylar foss^315 ARTICULATIONS of the femur, where it is attached. This band is termed the patellar synovial fold (O.T. ligafnenti/f/i mucosuni). As it approaches the femur it becomes narrow and slender; but, before it fairly rises from the surface of the infra-patellar pad it is broad and triangular, and presents two free margins which extend along the lateral borders of the distal part of the patella, and receive the name of plicae alares {ligamenta alaria). It must be clearly understood that these are not ligaments in the ordinary sense of the word, but merely folds of synovial membrane. Within the joint the dissector is now able to recognise: 1. The two crucial ligaments. 2. The two menisci (O.T. semilunar cartilages). Strattim Synoviale (O.T. Synovial Membrane).—As the knee-joint is the largest joint in the body its synovial mem- brane is more extensive than that of any other joint. It lines the deep surfaces of the ligamentous structures of the lateral and anterior parts of the joint. It also lines the deep surfaces of the medial and lateral portions of the posterior part of the capsule, and from them it is prolonged anteriorly along the sides and round the front of the crucial ligaments. In the anterior part of the joint it is prolonged proximally beyond the articular surface of the distal end of the femur, in the form of a great cul-de-sac, under cover of the tendon of the quadriceps. The proximal extremity of this cul-de-sac usually communicates by an orifice of greater or less width with the suprapatellar bursa. The synovial membrane also invests the menisci and a pouch-like diverticulum is prolonged posteriorly and distally, along the tendon of the popliteus which it partially ensheaths, across the posterior part of the external border ot the lateral meniscus to the posterior aspect of the proximal end of the tibia. This prolongation lies is close relation with the capsule of the tibio-fibular joint, and in some cases a communication is established "between the cavity of the diverticulum and the cavity of the tibio-fibular joint. Dissection.—Divide the patellar synovial fold and remove the infra- patellar pad of fat. The bursa between the ligamentum patellae and the proximal part of the tuberosity of the tibia may now be opened and examined. Next dissect away the intermediate part of the posterior portion of the capsule (oblique popliteal ligament) and trace the median genicular artery, which pierces it, forwards to the crucial ligaments. It will now be seen that the posterior surface of the posterior crucial ligament is not covered by synovial membrane, and that it is connected3i6 INFERIOR EXTREMITY by areolar tissue to the deep surface of the posterior part of the capsule. Define the attachments of the crucial ligaments by removing the synovial membrane which is wrapped round them and the areolar tissue in connec- tion with them. The menisci should also receive the attention of the dissector, and the manner in which their fibrous pointed extremities are fixed to the tibia must be studied. At this stage the changes produced in the degree of tension of the crucial ligaments, and the change brought about in the position of the menisci by movements of the joint, should be examined. Movements at the Knee-joint.—The movements of the knee-joint are those of flexion and extension. The leg can be bent posteriorly until the prominence of the calf comes into contact with the posterior aspect of the thigh ; but in extension the movement is brought to a close when the leg Adductor magnus. Popliteal artery Semimembranosus Medial head of gastrocnemius Inferior medial artery of knee Popliteal vein Popliteus Popliteus Synovial bursa .Common tendon of quadriceps Sj-novial membrane Patella Femur Infra-patellar pad of fat Deep infra-patellar bursa Ligamentum patellae .Tibia Fig. 117.—Vertical antero-posterior section through the Knee-joint. comes into a line with the thigh. In this position the joint is firmly locked, and the anterior crucial, the tibial and the fibular collateral ligaments, and the posterior part of the capsule with the accessory oblique popliteal ligament being fully stretched, the leg and thigh are converted into a rigid column of support. In flexion, however, the ligaments mentioned are relaxed, and a certain amount of rotation of the tibia upon the femur is allowed. But the movements of flexion and extension at the knee-joint are by no means so simple as at first sight they might appear to be, and to obtain some appreciation of them it is necessary to subject the opposed articular surfaces to a close scrutiny. Flex the joint acutely, and examine the cartilage-covered surface of the distal end of the femur. It consists of an anterior trochlear portion for the patella, and two condylar surfaces which move on the tibia. The trochlea is separated from the surface of the lateral condyle by a faintly marked groove, which takes a slightly curved course, from the lateral border of the distal end of the femur, medially and posteriorly to the fore part of the intercondylar fossa. At either extremity317 ARTICULATIONS this groove widens out into a distinct depression. In full extension the lateral depression rests upon the anterior part of the lateral meniscus, whilst the medial depression rests upon the anterior border of the lateral tubercle of the spine of the tibia (Bruce Young). The line of demarcation between the trochlea and the distal surface of the medial condyle of the femur is not so distinct. Close to the medial margin of the bone there is a depression which, in full extension, rests upon part of the anterior horn of the medial meniscus (Bruce Young): but lateral to this the trochlear surface is prolonged posteriorly for a certain distance along the anterior and medial margin of the intercondylar fossa. A portion of the medial condyle is thus included in the trochlear surface, viz. the portion skirting the medial border of the anterior part of the intercondylar fossa, and this is termed the “ crescentic facet ” of the medial condyle. The posterior surface of the patella may next be examined (Fig. 114), and its movements in connection with flexion and extension of the knee-joint studied. A high vertical ridge divides its deep surface into a large lateral and a smaller medial area. Each of these is still further subdivided by faint ridges on the cartilage which coats the surface. A faint line upon the medial area of the patella descends in a vertical direction so as to mark off a narrow strip close to the medial border of the bone. This strip is called the medial perpendiadar facet. Two horizontal lines extend laterally from the lateral border of the medial perpendicular facet to the lateral border of the bone, and subdivide the remainder of the medial area and the whole of the lateral area into three facets each. In a well-marked patella, therefore, the posterior cartilage-covered surface shows seven facets, viz. a proximal pair, an intermediate pair, a distal pair, and a medial perpendicular facet (Goodsir). The faceted appearance of the deep surface of the patella indicates that, in the movements of this bone upon the trochlear surface of the femur, the entire articular surface is never in contact with the femur at the same time. In flexion and extension of the knee, the patella moves distally and proxi- mally in a curved path, the concavity of which looks proximally, posteriorly, and laterally. The different facets come into contact and break contact with the femur in regular succession. Let us suppose the knee-joint to be acutely flexed : in this condition of the limb the medial perpendicular facet of the patella rests upon the crescentic facet of the medial condyle of the femur, while the lateral of the two proximal patellar facets is in contact with the lateral lip of the trochlear surface of the femur. No part of the patella touches the medial lip of the trochlear surface. As the leg is moved from the fully flexed to the fully extended position, the two proximal facets, then the two intermediate facets, and, lastly, the two distal facets, come successively into contact with the trochlear surface of the femur (Goodsir). In Fig. 117 the position of the patella in the fully extended knee is exhibited. Now examine the condylar surfaces of the femur (Fig. 114). The posterior two-thirds of the medial condyle will be seen to be of equal extent with, and parallel to, the lateral condyle. The anterior third of the medial condyle, however, turns obliquely laterally to join the trochlear surface. The lateral condylar surface has no part corresponding with this, and its presence in connection with the medial condyle gives rise to the “screw- home ” movement, which is so characteristic of the knee-joint when fully extended. At the commencement of flexion and at the completion of extension there is a screw movement, or a movement of rotation of the tibia and femur on each other. As the leg is moved forwards from the condition of acute flexion, the condyles of the femur roll and glide over the surfaces on the proximal end of the tibia until the surface of the lateral318 INFERIOR EXTREMITY condyle, and the corresponding part of the medial condyle, are exhausted. This movement of the femoral condyles has been compared to that of “ a wheel partially restrained by a drag ” (Goodsir). Any additional movement beyond this point must necessarily take place in connection with the anterior oblique third of the medial condyle. This produces a rotation or screw- like motion of the femur medially. The medial condyle travels backwards round the spine of the tibia, and the anterior part of the intercondylar fossa comes into contact with the anterior crucial ligament and the medial tubercle of the tibial spine (Bruce Young). The joint is now “ screwed home” or locked. In the initial stage of flexion the reverse movement must be accomplished. The unlocking of the joint can only be brought about by a rotation medially of the tibia, or a rotation laterally of the femur. When fully extended, as we have seen, the joint is locked, and the posterior part of the capsule, the collateral ligaments, and the anterior crucial ligaments are tense. The limb is converted into a rigid column, and the upright posture is thereby maintained with the smallest possible degree of muscular exertion. The muscles which operate upon the bones of the leg so as to produce flexion and extension of the limb at the knee-joint are :—(i) extensors, the four parts of the quadriceps extensor; (2) flexors, the biceps femoris, popliteus, sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. Of these, only one is inserted on the lateral side of the limb, viz. the biceps. The other five are inserted into the tibia on the medial side of the leg. Dissection.—In order to obtain a proper view of the attachments of the crucial ligaments the following dissection should be made ;—The femur must be sawn across about two inches proximal to its distal articular surface. When this is done the saw should be applied to the cut surface of the distal part of the bone, and a vertical cut made through it so as to divide it into a right and a left lateral portion. The saw-cut should be planned to end inferiorly in the intercondylar fossa between the condyles and between the proximal attachments of the two crucial ligaments. By this procedure the crucial ligaments can be studied singly, or together, and their relation to the collateral ligaments of the joint can be examined. It will be seen that the fibular collateral ligament and the anterior crucial ligament constitute a pair of ligaments appropriated by the lateral condyle, to either side of which they are fixed ; while the tibial collateral and the posterior crucial ligaments belong to the medial condyle of the femur, and are attached on either side of it. When this relationship is observed, the tibial collateral ligament may be divided. This will, in a measure, set free the medial condyle, and give greater space for the study of the crucial ligaments. Ligamenta Cruciata Genu (O.T. Crucial Ligaments).—The cruciate ligaments are well named, because they cross each other, like the limbs of the letter X, in the interval between the two condyles of the femur. This crucial arrangement is seen whether they are viewed from the side, by the removal of the distal part of one condyle, or from the front or the back of the joint. The anterior cruciate ligament is attached to the lateral condyle, whilst the posterior is fixed to the medial condyle of the femur. They are consequently some- times termed lateral and medial.ARTICULATIONS 319 The anterior cruciate ligament springs from the intermediate rough area on the proximal surface of the tibia, immediately anterior to the medial tubercle which surmounts the eminentia intercondyloidea. From this it proceeds proximally, backwards, and laterally, to gain attachment to the posterior part of the medial surface of the lateral condyle of the femur (Fig. 118). Tendon of insertion of adductor muscle Popliteal surface of femur Anterior cruciate ligament Tendon of popliteal muscle (cut) Accessory attach- ment of lateral meniscus Medial meniscus Posterior cruciate ligament Tendon of semimem- anosus muscle (cut) Tibial collateral ligament Popliteal of tibia Lateral meniscus Groove on tibia for ten- don of popliteus muscle .Capsule of pro.\iniaI tibio-fibular articulation Fibular collateral ligament Posterior superior tibio- fibular ligament Head of fibula Fig. 118.—The Knee-joint opened from behind by the removal of the Posterior Ligament. posterior cruciate ligament springs from the posterior Sloping part of the intermediate rough area on the proximal sur ace of the tibia, posterior to the eminentia intercondyloidea and posterior also to the attachments of the posterior horns 'iieni.sci. It proceeds proximally, forwards, and some- what medially, and, crossing the anterior cruciate ligament, is attached, in the fore part of the intercondylar fossa, to theINFERIOR EXTREMITY 320 anterior portion of the lateral surface of the medial condyle. It receives one, or sometimes two, strong slips from the posterior horn of the lateral meniscus (Fig. ii8, p. 319). The anterior crucial ligament is tight in extension, and the posterior crucial ligament is tight in flexion of the knee- joint. Menisci (O.T. Semilunar Cartilages).—These are two cres- centic plates of fibro-cartilage which are placed on the condylar surfaces of the tibia. They deepen the surfaces upon which the condyles of the femur roll, and, being movable, they fill up the gaps which would otherwise arise during the movements of the joint. Each meniscus presents two fibrous extremities, or horns, which are attached to the rough intermediate surface on the proximal end of the tibia. They are thick towards the circumference of the joint, but thin away to a fine free concave edge in the opposite direction. Both surfaces are smooth and covered with synovial membrane. They do not cover the entire extent of the condylar surfaces of the tibia. The central parts of the latter, as well as the sloping surfaces of the tubercles of the eminentia intercondyloidea, are free. On raising the cartilages from the surface upon which they rest, distinct impressions similar in shape and extent are seen on the subjacent encrusting cartilage of the tibia. Dissection.—Carefully define the attachments of the fibrous horns of the menisci. The lateral meniscus is usually somewhat thicker around its circumference than the medial meniscus. It forms the segment of a smaller circle, and its horns being fixed to the tibia close together, a very nearly complete circle is formed. The anterior fibrous horn is attached, immediately in front of the intercondylar eminence, to the lateral side of and partly under cover of the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament. The posterior horn is fixed to the summit of the inter- condylar eminence in the interval between the two tubercles. It likewise gives a strong slip to the posterior crucial ligament. The fibular collateral ligament is not in contact with the lateral meniscus. It is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, and the impress of the tendon is left on the cartilage in the form of a faint smooth groove on the posterior part of its lateral border. Posteriorly, its circumfer- ence is attached to the posterior ligament.ARTICULATIONS 321 The medial meniscus is semicircular in outline, and forms the segment of a much larger circle than the lateral meniscus. Its anterior fibrous horn is fixed to the fore part of the inter- mediate rough area of the tibia in front of the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior horn is attached to the back part of the intermediate rough area of the tibia, behind the intercondylar eminence and in front of the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. The circumfer- ence of this cartilage is closely connected with the deep surface of the capsule where the latter is fused with the tibial collateral ligament. 2 1 12 I I 10 7 8 Fig. 119.—Parts attached to the proximal end of the Right Tibia. 1. Transverse ligament. 2. Anterior cornu of medial meniscus. 3. Anterior crucial ligament. 4. Medial tubercle of spine of tibia. 5. Medial meniscus. 6. Posterior cornu of medial meniscus. 7. Posterior crucial ligament. 8. Fasciculus from lateral meniscus to posterior crucial ligament. 9. Posterior cornu of lateral meniscus, ro. Lateral tubercle of spine of tibia. 11. Lateral meniscus. 12. Anterior cornu of lateral meniscus. Ligamentum Transversum Genu.—The transverse ligament is a fibrous band which stretches across from the fore part of one meniscus to the corresponding part of the other, con- stituting thereby a bond of union between them. Dissedioti.—The condyles of the femur should now be detached by dividing the fibular collateral ligament and the crucial ligaments close to their femoral attachments. Attachment of Parts to the Proximal Surface of the Tibia. —The ligamentous structures are attached to the intermediate area on the upper surface of the tibia in the following order VOL. 1—21322 INFERIOR EXTREMITY from before backwards:—(i) The anterior horn of the medial meniscus on the medial side of the extreme anterior part of the area. (2) The anterior crucial ligament and the anterior horn of the lateral meniscus: these are placed side by side, but the attachment of the former, which lies to the medial side, overlaps that of the lateral meniscus. (3) The posterior horn of the lateral meniscus on the summit of the intercondylar eminence between its two tubercles. (4) The posterior horn of the medial meniscus immediately behind the intercondylar eminence. (5) The posterior crucial ligament at the hinder part of the area. Articulatio Talocruralis (Ankle-joint). The ankle-joint is a diarthrodial articulation of the ginglymus or hinge variety. The articulation takes place Fibular facet ligament Lateral Anterior talo-fibular ligament Anterior ligament of lateral malleolus' .T. Anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament) Transverse tibio-fibular ligament Synovial pad of fat Medial malleolus Calcaneo-fibular ligament Posterior ligament lateral malleolus Posterior talo-fibular ligament Fig. 120.—Articular Surfaces of Tibia and Fibula which articulate with the Talus. between the bones of the leg and the talus, and the weight of the body is transferred through it to the foot. It is a joint of great strength ; its stability being ensured not only by the powerful ligaments which surround it, but also by the close interlocking of the articulating surfaces. The bones which enter into the formation of the ankle- joint are the distal ends of the tibia and fibula and the proximal, medial, and lateral surfaces of the talus. The distalARTICULATIONS 323 ends of the leg bones are very firmly united together by an interosseous and other ligaments which give the joint a certain amount of elasticity or spring. They form a deep hollow resembling a mortice. The upper part of the talus is received into this cavity. Distal end of shaft of tibia Tibio-fibular interosseous membrane Distal end of shaft of fibula Tuber calcanei Groove on medial malleolus for tendon tibialis posterior Trochlear surface of talus Deltoid ligament Fibrous sheath for tendon flexor hallucis longus Sustentaculum tali xor hallucis longus tendon Posterior talo-calcanean ligament Posterior ligament of lateral malleolus (O.T. Posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament) Transverse inferior tibio-fibular ligament Facet on astragalus for trans- verse inferior tibio-fibular ligament Posterior talo-fibular ligament Calcaneo-fibular ligament Fig. I2I.—Ankle-joint dissected from behind with part of the Capsular Ligament removed. The ligaments of the ankle-joint are :— 1. Capsula articularis. 2. Ligamentum deltoicleum. 3. Ligamentum talofibulare anterius. 4. Ligamentum talofibulare posterius. $■ Ligamentum calcaneo-fibulare. Disseclion.—The remains of the transverse and laciniate ligaments, together with the tendons which are in relation to the joint, should be removed and the ligaments defined. The anterior and posterior parts of the capsule should be first dissected. They may then be removed in324 INFERIOR EXTREMITY order to bring the powerful lateral and medial accessory ligaments more fully into relief. At the same time the articulating surfaces will be dis- played, and the play of the surfaces can be studied when the joint is flexed and extended. Anterior and Posterior Segments of the Capsule (O.T. Anterior and Posterior Ligaments).—These are feeble bands which are placed in front of and behind the joint. They are attached to the margins of the articulating surfaces, Cuboid Dors.al c.alcaneo-cuboid ligament ■ Calcaneo-cuboid joint J • Tendon of peronmus longus ^ Interosseous talo-calcanean ligament I Talo-calcanean joint Lateral talo-calcanean ligament Fig. 122.—Ligaments on the Lateral Aspect of the Ankle-joint and on the Dorsum of the Tarsus. except in front and distally where the anterior segment is fixed to the neck of the talus. The fibres of these liga- ments have for the most part a transverse direction. The Lateral Accessory Bands (O.T. External Lateral Ligament).—The lateral accessory bands of the capsule of the ankle-joint are three in number, (i) The anterior talo- fibular ligament; (2) the posterior talo-fibular ligament; (3) the calcaneo-fibular ligament. The anterior talo-fibular Ugainent is the most anterior of the three. It is a flattened band which passes forwards from Posterior ligament of lateral malleolus (O.T. Posterior inferior tibio- fibular ligament) Articular surface of talus Posterior talo-fibular ligament Calcaneo-fibular ligament' Posterior talo- calcanean ligament Calcaneus — Tibia Third cuneiform Fibula Anterior ligament of lateral malleolus (O.T. Anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament) Articular surface of talus Anterior talo-fibular ligament Dorsal talo-navicular ligament Talo-navicular joint Lateral calcaneo-navicular ligame Dorsal naviculo-cuneifc and naviculo-cuboid lig Second cuneiformARTICULATIONS 325 the anterior border of the lateral malleolus to the immediately adjacent part of the body of the talus. ^ I he posterior talo-fibiilar ligament is the strongest and the most posterior of the three bands. It runs almost horizon- tally, from the deep pit posterior to the distal articular surface Fig. 123.—Ankle- and Tarsal 1. First tarso*metatarsaI joint (opened). 2. Tendon of tibialis anterior muscle (cut). 3. Medial naviculo - cuneiform joint (opened). 4. Dorsal naviculo-cuneiform ligament. 5. Head of talus. 6. Dorsal talo-navicular ligament. 7- Trochlear surface of talus. 8. Medial malleolus. 9. Deltoid ligament o( the ankle. -joints from the Medial Aspect. 10. Trochlear surface of talus. 11. Groove for tendon of tibialis posterior muscle on inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. 12. Groove and tunnel for the tendon of flexor hallucis longus muscle. 13. Calcaneus. 14. Sustentaculum tali. 15. Tendon of tibialis posterior muscle(cul). 16. Long plantar ligament. of the fibula to a prominent tubercle on of the talus. the posterior surface This tubercle, the posterior proce.ss of the talus, is sometimes detached ^ f“P^“'-"“™erary tarsal bone which’may represlt the 1 m-'immals. In such cases it may be mistake.i for The calcatteo-fibular ligament is a round, cord-like bandINFERIOR EXTREMITY 326 which passes from the distal end of the lateral malleolus to the lateral surface of the calcaneus. Ligamentum Deltoideum (O.T. Internal Lateral Lig.).— This is an accessory band on the medial side of the joint. It is strong and of triangular form. Its apex, which is directed proximally, is attached to a shallow pit on the distal end of the medial malleolus. Its fibres diverge from the apex, and are attached in a continuous layer from before backwards to the navicular bone, the talus, sustentaculum tali, and posterior to this to the talus again. Synovial Membrane.—The synovial membrane lines the ligaments above described, and in some cases it sends a smMl process proximally between the tibia and fibula. It is thrown into a transverse fold anteriorly when the joint is flexed, and into a similar fold posteriorly when the joint is extended. Movements.—The movements which take place at the ankle-joint are —(i) flexion (dorsal-flexion); (2) extension (plantar-flexion); and (3) a very limited degree of lateral movement (abduction and adduction) when the foot is fully extended. The two principal movements (flexion and extension) take place around a horizontal axis, which is not transverse, but which is directed laterally and posteriorly, so that it is inclined to the median plane of the body at an angle of about 60° (Krause). This horizontal axis passes through or near the interosseous canal between the calcaneus and talus (Henle). As the articular cavity formed by the tibia and fibula, and also the part of the talus which plays in it, are broader in front than behind, it follows that the more completely the ankle-joint is flexed, the more tightly will the talus be grasped between the two malleoli. In the erect position the talus is held firmly in the bony socket, and portions of its articular surface project both in front of and behind the tibia. The centre of gravity is placed anterior to the ankle-joint, and in this way the bones are kept firmly locked. When, on the other hand, the ankle-joint is fully extended (as when we rise on tip-toe) the narrower posterior part of the talus is brought into the socket, and thus a limited amount of lateral movement is allowed. In flexion the calcaneo-fibular and posterior talo- fibular bands, greater part of the deltoid ligament, and the posterior part of the capsule are put on the stretch. In extetision the anterior talo- fibular ligament, the anterior fibres of the deltoid ligament, and the anterior ])art of the capsule are rendered tense. The Muscles principally concerned in producing dorsi-flexion of the foot at the ankle-joint are the tibialis anterior and the peronreus tertius ; those which operate as plantar-flexors are the superficial muscles of the calf, the tibialis posterior, and the peronrcus longus and brevis. Tibio-fibular Joints. The fibula articulates with the tibia by both its proximal and distal extremity. The upper of the two, the articulatio tibiofibularis, is a diarthrodial joint possessing a cavity and a327 ARTICULATIONS capsule with accessory thickenings. The lower joint is a syndesmosis, the tibiofihularis syndesmosis, but in some cases a prolongation of the cavity of the ankle-joint projects between the distal ends of the tibia and fibula. The inter- osseous membrane which occupies the interval between the bodies of the bones may be regarded as a ligament common to both joints. Dissection.—Preparatory to the examination of the tibio-fibular joints the foot must be removed by dividing the ligaments on the medial and lateral aspects of the ankle-joint. The muscles must also be detached from both aspects of the interosseous membrane and the bones of the leg. The ligaments may now be defined. Membrana Interossea Cruris (Interosseous Membrane).— This is a strong membrane which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and greatly extends the surface for the origin of muscles. It is attached on the one hand to the interosseous border of the tibia, and on the other to the interosseous border of the fibula. It is composed of strong oblique fibres, which take a direction distally and laterally from the tibia to the fibula. An oval opening in its proximal part, immediately distal to the lateral condyle of the tibia, is present for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels, whilst a small aperture, a short distance above the ankle-joint, marks the point where the membrane is pierced by the ramus perforans of the peroneal artery. Articulatio Tibiofibularis (O.T. Superior Tibio-fibular Joint). —At this joint the bones are held in apposition by a capsule which is strengthened anteriorly and posteriorly. The fibres of the anterior and posterior strengthening bands pass distally and laterally from the lateral condyle of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior band is the weaker of the two, and the tendon of the popliteus with its synovial investment rests upon its upper part. This investment is a prolongation from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and in some cases it will be found to be directly continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule of the tibio-fibular joint. The relation of the tendon of the biceps femoris to this joint must not be lost sight of. Attached for the most part to the head of the fibula, its fibres stretch over the front of the joint. Some of its tendinous fibres also obtain insertion into the lateral condyle of-the tibia. Firm support is in this way contributed to the tibio-fibular joint.328 INFERIOR EXTREMITY Syndesmosis Tibioflbularis (O.T. Inferior Tibio-fibular Joint) (Figs. 120 and 121).—This articulation is constructed upon a stronger plan, because the strength of the ankle-joint very largely depends upon its security. In some cases a very narrow strip of the distal part of each of the opposing surfaces of the bones is articular and coated with cartilage, in other cases articular cartilage is etitirely abse?it. Above this the surfaces are rough, and are held together by an exceedingly strong interosseous ligament, composed of short fibres which pass directly between the bones. Fig. 124.—Vertical section through the Foot, along a line stretching from the centre of the heel behind to the centre of the great toe in front. (From Luschka.) 1. Tibia. 2. Talus. 3. Calcaneus. 4. Navicular. 5. First cuneiform. 6. First metatarsal. 7 & 8. Phalanges of hallux. 9. Sesamoid bone. 10. Tendo calcaneus. 11. Bursa between tendo calcaneus and calcaneus. 12. Tendon of extensor ballucis longus. 13. Tendon of flexor ballucis longus. 14. Plantar aponeurosis (intermediate p.art). 15. Thick superficial fascia of heel. In addition to this interosseous ligament there are:— 1. Lig. malleoli lateralis anterius (O.T. Ant. inf. tibio-fibular ligament). 2. Lig. malleoli lateralis posterius (O.T. Post. inf. tibio-fibular ligament). 3. Inferior transverse ligament. The anterior and posterior ligaments are flat strong bands which pass from the tibia to the fibula, in an oblique direc- tion, laterally and distally.ARTICULATIONS 329 The distal part of the posterior ligament forms a strong narrow band of yellowish fibres, which takes a transverse course on the back of the joint and is firmly attached to both tibia and fibula, filling up the interval between them. It constitutes a part of the tibio-fibular socket for the talus at the ankle-joint (Figs. 120 and 121); and on the proximal aspect of the articular surface of the talus, the area over which it plays is usually easily distinguished. This portion of the posterior ligament is called the inferior trans- verse ligament. Dissection.—To see the interosseous ligament of the tibio-fibular syndes- mosis the bones of the leg may be sawn through about two inches proximal to the distal end of the tibia, and then divided with the saw from above downwards in a vertical-transverse, or frontal direction. This cut should be planned so as to pass through the inferior tibio-fibular joint. The short strong fibres of the interosseous ligament will then be seen, and also the short narrow articular interval between the lower portions of the opposing surfaces of the bones when the latter is present. If a cavity is present in the distal part of the joint the synovial membrane of the capsule of the ankle-joint is prolonged proximally over the inner surface of those parts of the ligaments of the tibio-fibular syndesmosis which help to form the boundaries of the cavity. Articul.-vtions of the Foot. The articulations of the foot are very numerous. They consist of: — 1. Articulationes intertarsse, tarsometatarste, and intermetatarsEC. 2. Articulationes metatarso-phalangese. 3. Articulationes digitorum pedis. The bones which enter into these articulations are the seven tarsal bones, the metatarsal bones, and the phalanges. The tarsal and metatarsal bones are bound together by inter- osseous, plantar, and dorsal ligaments, and are disposed in the form of two arches, viz. a longitudinal and a transverse. The integrity of these arches is maintained: (i) partly by the forms of the bones; (2) partly by the tension of the liga- ments; (3) partly by supporting tendons; and (4) partly by the tension of the plantar aponeurosis. The longitudinal arch presents a greater height and a wider span along the medial than along the lateral side of the foot. The talus is placed on the summit of this arch and forms its keystone. The posterior pillar of the longitudinal plantar arch is short and solid, being formed by the calcaneus alone ; the anterior pillar, much longer, is composed of several bones.INFERIOR EXTREMITY 33° viz. the navicular, the cuboid, the three cuneiforms, and the metatarsus. Further, the anterior pillar may be considered as being formed of a medial column composed of the navicular, the three cuneiform, and the three medial metatarsal bones, and a lateral column composed of the cuboid and the two lateral metatarsal bones. The weight of the body is trans- mitted to the summit of the arch through the talus, and the most important ligaments concerned in the prevention of excessive flattening of the arch are the plantar ca/ca?ieo- navicular, the two pla7itar calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, and the various slips of the te7idon of the tibialis posterior as they pass to find attachment to the different tarsal and meta- tarsal bones. The pla7itar aponeurosis also acts po-werfully in this way: connecting as it does the extremities of the two pillars of the plantar arch, it operates, as the late Sir < George Humphry once pointed out, in the same manner as the “ tie-beam ” of a roof. The transverse arch of the foot is seen to best advantage across the line of the tarso- metatarsal articulations. Dissection.—The muscles and tendons which have hitherto been only partially detached from the bones of the foot should now be completely removed and the ligaments defined. Taloid Articulations.—The talus articulates by means of the large posterior facet on the distal surface of its body with the corresponding posterior facet on the proximal surface of the calcaneus. Its head, on the other hand, is received into a large socket which is formed for it by the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneus, the navicular, and two ligaments which pass between the calcaneus and the navicular—viz. one below, the plantar calcaneo-navicular, and another on the lateral side, the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament. These two taloid articulations are quite distinct. The ligaments which hold the talus in its place are five in number. Four are attached to the calcaneus and one to the navicular bone. They are :— 1. Lig. talo-calcaneum intcrosseum. 2. Lig. talo-calcaneum laterale. 3. Lig. talo-calcaneum mcdiale. 4. Lig. talo-calcaneum posterius. 5. Lig. talo-naviculare dorsale. 'I'he talo-calca7iea7i intetvsseous Iiga7ne7it is by far the most powerful. It occupies the tarsal canal, and consists of strongARTICULATIONS 331 fibres attached distally to the groove between the articular facets on the proximal surface of the calcaneus, and proximally to the corresponding groove on the distal surface of the talus. The lateral ligament is a short band of fibres which pro- ceeds from the lateral surface of the talus to the lateral surface of the calcaneus. It is parallel with the calcaneo- fibular ligament of the ankle-joint, but it is placed on a deeper plane, and lies somewhat more anteriorly. The medial talo- calcanean ligament * passes distally and forwards, from the medial border of the groove on the talus from the flexor hallucis longus to the sustentaculum tali. The posterior talo-calcafiean liga- ment passes from the posterior border of the talus to the cal- caneus. It closes the posterior talo- calcanean articula- tion behind. The dorsal talo- navicular liga7tient extends on the dorsum of talus to the navicular bone. Os calcis Scaphoid Posterior surface of navicular Plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament Lateral calcaneo- navicular ligament Facet on calcaneus for head of talus Interosseous talo* calcanean ligament Facet on calcaneus for body of talus Fig. 125.—Talus removed so as to show the socket for its head. the foot from the head of the It is thin and membranous. The medial and lateral parts of the capsule of the ankle- joint also help to keep the talus in its place. Dissection.—The talus should now be removed by dividing the various ligaments which hold it in place. By this proceeding the different parts which form the socket for the head of the talus will be brought into view; and the posterior talo-calcanean articulation will be seen to be completely cut off from the anterior articulation by the interosseous talo-calcanean ligament. The great strength of this ligament can ■ now be appreciated, and the facets on the head of the talus studied. These are:—(r) a convex surface which looks anteriorly and articulates with the navicular ; (2) an elongated facet on its distal aspect (sometimes divided into two), which rests upon the sustentaculum tali; and {3) between these, a triangular facet which corresponds with the proximal surface of the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament. In the recent slate (and indeed332 INFERIOR EXTREMITY usually also in the macerated condition of the bone) these three facets are very distinctly mapped off from each other by intervening ridges. Calcaneo-navicular Ligaments.—Although the calcaneus does not directly articulate with the navicular bone, it is Calcaneus Base of metatarsal bone of hallux Tendon of insertion rof tibialis anterior ) muscle Tendon of tibialis posterior muscle Groove for tendon of tibialis posterior muscle i Plantar calcaneo- navicular ligament ligament of ankle Medial malleolus Groove for tendon of flexor hallucis longus muscle Plantar inter-meta- tarsal ligaments Ridge on cuboid bone Plantar cubo-cunei- form ligament Plantar calcaneo- cuboid ligament Tendon of peronaeus longus muscle Long plantar ligament Tendon of insertion of peronajus longus muscle First cuneiform bone Plantar naviculo-cunei-* ligament Fig. 126.—Plantar Aspect of Tarsal and Tarso-metatarsal Joints. connected with it by two powerful and important ligaments, viz. a plantar and a lateral. The plantii7’ calca/ieo-navicular liga7nent (O.T. inferior calcaneo-scaphoid Hganienf) is brought into view by the removal of the talus. It fills up the angular gap between the sustentaculum tali and the navicular bone, and enters into the formation of the socket for the head of the talus333 ARTICULATIONS (Fig. 126). Its proximal surface, therefore, is smooth and covered with synovial membrane; its distal surface is sup- ported by the tendon of the tibialis posterior. This ligament has an important part to play in maintaining the integrity of the longitudinal arch of the foot. Posteriorly it is attached to the fore border of the sustentaculum tali, whilst anteriorly it is fixed to the distal surface of the navicular bone. The lateral calcaiieo-navicular ligament (O.T. exter7ial calcanea-scaphoid ligament) also forms a small part of the socket for the head of the talus. It is placed deeply in the anterior part of the depression between the calcaneus and the head of the talus, and is the medial part of a V-shaped band, the ligamenttitn bifurcatum^ which springs from the anterior part of the proximal surface of the cal- caneus and immediately divides into a medial or navicular part and a lateral or cuboid portion. The medial part, here called the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament, is continuous below and medially with the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament, and dorsally with the talo-navicular ligament. Calcaneo-cuboid Articulation.—In this joint the concavo- convex surface on the fore aspect of the calcaneus articulates with the corresponding surface on the posterior aspect of the os cuboideum. It is a distinct joint, that is, its cavity does not communicate with the cavities of neighbouring joints. The ligafnents which bind the two bones together are :— 1. Capsula articularis. 2. Ligamentum calcaneo-cuboideum plantare. 3. Ligamentum plantare longum. The capsule completely surrounds the joint and its dorsal and medial parts, which are somewhat thickened and are sometimes called the dorsal and medial ligaments of the joint. The medial ligament is the lateral part of the lig. bifurcatum mentioned above. The long plantar ligament springs from the distal surface of the calcaneus, anterior to the medial and lateral processes of the tuber calcanei. It extends forwards to the distal surface of the cuboid bone where it broadens out and is for the most part attached to the tuberosity of that bone. Numerous strong fibres, however, are prolonged anteriorly, across the tendon of the peronceus longus, to gain attach- ment to the bases of the three intermediate metatarsal bones.334 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The long plantar ligament, therefore, extends over the greater part of the plantar aspect of the lateral portion of the tarsus, and is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Further, it forms the greater part of the sheath of the tendon of the peronaeus longus. The Plantar Calcaneo cuboid Ligament (O.T. Short Plantar Ligament) is placed under cover of the long plantar ligament. Slip the knife between them and carry the cutting edge backwards so as to detach the long plantar from the distal surface of the calcaneus. On throwing the detached band forwards the plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligament comes into view and little dissection is required to make its connections apparent. It is composed of short, strong fibres, not more than an inch in length. They spring from the small tubercle on the anterior part of the distal surface of the calcaneus, and are attached, anteriorly, to the distal surface of the cuboid, posterior to its tuberosity. The ligament is broader than the long plantar ligament and is apparent along the medial border of the latter before it is reflected. In the maintenance of the longitudinal arch of the foot, the long plantar ligament and the plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligament have an importance which is surpassed only by that of the plantar calcaneo-navicular ligament. The joint between the talus and the navicular and that between the calcaneus and the cuboid are frequently referred to together as the trans- verse tarsal joint. It is here that the movements of eversion and inversion of the foot chiefly take place, and it should be noted that all the ligaments which connect together the anterior and the posterior segments of the tarsus at this joint, except one, are attached posteriorly to the calcaneus. They are :— Plantar calcaneo-navicular,'! Lateral calcaneo-navicular. Long plantar, )■ Attached to the calcaneus. Plantar calcaneo-cuboid, Calcaneo-cuboid capsule, J Dorsal talo-navicular, } Attached to the talus. Inter - cuneiform Articulations. — The three cuneiform bones are held together so firmly that very little individual movement is permitted. The chief uniting structures are two strong interosseous Ugametits which pass between the non- articular portions of their opposed surfaces. These can only be seen when the bones are separated from each other. Dorsal inter-cuneiform ligaments are also present. These are short, flat, transversely-placed bands.ARTICULATIONS 335 Naviculo-cuneiform Articulation.^—The three cuneiform bones articulate with the anterior surface of the navicular. They are held in position by dorsal ligaments, which pass from the dorsal surface of the navicular to the dorsal surface of each of the cuneiform bones, and by plantar ligaments, which are similarly disposed. The strength of the plantar ligaments is greater than that of the dorsal ligaments, and they are very largely formed by slips from the tendon of the tibialis posterior. The dissector may now divide freely all the dorsal and the most medial of the plantar naviculo-cuneiform ligaments. The navicular bone can then be drawn posteriorly so as to expose the interior of the joint. The knife may also be carried round the lateral side of the lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament. A much better view of this ligament is thus obtained, although this dissection entails the division of the dorsal naviculo-cuboid ligament. The convex anterior articular surface of the navicular fits into a transversely concave socket, which is formed for it by the proximal surfaces of the three cuneiform bones, and often by a small facet on the medial surface of the cuboid as well. The articular surface of the navicular is divided by prominent ridges into areas or facets corresponding with the different parts of the socket in which it lies. The synovial membrane, which lines this joint, is prolonged forwards into the intercuneiform joints. Naviculo-cuboid and Cubo-cuneiform Articulations.—It has been noted that the anterior pillar of the longitudinal arch of the foot consists of a lateral and a medial column. The tarsal portions of these are connected together by the naviculo- cuboid and the cubo-cuneiform articulations. It is only occasionally that the navicular touches and articulates directly with the medial surface of the cuboid. When it does so, the facet on the cuboid lies in series with the articular surfaces on the proximal ends of the cunei- form bones, and forms with them the socket for the distal surface of the navicular. The ligaments which bind the navicular to the cuboid are disposed transversely, and consist of—(i) a series of short strong interosseous fibres which bind the opposed surfaces together; (2) a dorsal band ; and (3) a plantar band. The dorsal band has previously been divided in exposing the interior of the naviculo-cuneiform joint and in defining the bI lateral calcaneo-navicular ligament, but the interosseous and l«j plantar ligaments may be readily displayed.336 INFERIOR EXTREMITY The cuboid, by an oval facet on its medial surface, articulates with the lateral or third cuneiform bone, forming thereby the cubo-cmieiform joint. The two bones are bound together by interosseous., dorsal, and pla^itar ligaments. By dividing the dorsal ligament and insinuating the knife between the two bones the interosseous ligament may be detected. It is the strongest of the three ligaments. The synovial membra?ie which lines the naviculo-cuneiform articulation is prolonged into the cubo-cuneiform joint and also into the naviculo-cuboid joint when that exists. Tarso-metatarsal Articulations.—The bases of the five metatarsal bones articulate with the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid bone, and are very firmly attached to them by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are flat, distinct bands which can readily be defined. One such ligament passes to the base of the first metatarsal from the medial or first cuneiform; three, one from each of the cuneiform bones, proceed to the base of the second metatarsal; 07ie extends from the lateral or third cuneiform to the base of the third metatarsal; two, of which one proceeds from the lateral cuneiform and the other from the cuboid, go to the base of the fourth metatarsal; and one passes from the cuboid to the base of the fiftli metatarsal. The plafitar ligaments are not so regularly disposed. Those in connection with the first and second metatarsal bones are very strong. Some of the bands have an oblique direction, and those which go to the bases of the three intermediate metatarsal bones are more or less connected with the sheath of the tendon of the peronseus longus, and therefore with the long plantar ligament. To bring the interosseous liganmits into view, divide freely the dorsal ligaments, and then forcibly bend the metatarsus distally upon the tarsus. The interosseous ligaments will resist this proceeding, and on looking into the joints they will be seen stretched and tense. If the force be continued they will rupture. The interosseous ligaments are three in number, viz. a medial, an intermediate, and a lateral. The medial interosseous liga?nent is an exceedingly strong band, which passes laterally from the anterior part of the lateral surface of the medial cuneiform bone to the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal bone. The337 ARTICULATIONS intermediate interosseous ligament is small. It passes between the anterior part of the medial surface of the lateral cuneiform and the adjacent surface of the base of the second metatarsal. The lateral interosseous ligament passes from the lateral surface of the lateral cuneiform bone to the medial side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. One inter- osseous ligament, therefore, passes from the medial cuneiform bone and two from the lateral cuneiform; and of these, two are attached to the base of the second, and the'third to the base of the third metatarsal bone. Tarso-metatarsal Articular Surfaces.—The manner in which the metatarsus is implanted upon the tarsus should now be examined. The first metatarsal rests against the medial cuneiform, and this joint possesses a separate synovial cavity. The second metatarsal rests against the inter- mediate cuneiform, but its base is grasped by the projecting anterior ends of the medial and lateral cuneiform bones, with both of which it articulates, and with both of which it is con- nected by interosseous ligaments. It is not surprising, there- fore, that this metatarsal should possess so little power of independent movement, and present a difficulty to the surgeon when he is called upon to amputate the fore-part of the foot through the tarso-metatarsal articulation. The third meta- tarsal rests against the lateral cuneiform. The synovial meynbrane which lines the joints between the tarsus and the second and third metatarsal bones is continuous with that which is present between the medial and inter- mediate cuneiform bones, and through this with the synovial membrane of the naviculo - cuneiform articulation. The bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are supported by the cuboid, but that of the fourth, by its medial margin, articulates also with the lateral cuneiform. The joint formed between the two lateral metatarsal bones and the tarsus has a capsule and a cavity separate from that of the adjacent joints. Intermetatarsal Joints.—The bases of the metatarsal bones, with the exception of the first, articulate with each other, and are very firmly bound together. The ligaments which connect the bases of the four lateral metatarsal bones are dorsal, plafitar, and interosseous. To bring the interosseous ligaments into view it is necessary to divide the dorsal ligaments, and then forcibly separate the bases of the bones from each other. They are strong bands VOL. I—22INFERIOR EXTREMITY 338 which pass between the non-articular portions of the basal parts of the bones, and they constitute the chief bonds of union. In addition to these basal ligaments, the strong transverse metatarsal ligament of the heads of the metatarsal bones unites the distal extremities of the bones together. This ligament has been previously described (p. 305). Joint Cavities of the Foot.—There are six separate joint cavities in connection with the tarsal, tarso-meta- tarsal, and intermetatarsal articulations, viz.—(i) the cavity between the posterior facets of the talus and calcaneus; (2) the calcaneo-cuboid joint cavity; (3) the cavity of the joint formed by the head of the talus, the navicular, the sus- tentaculum tali, and the two calcaneo-navicular ligaments; (4) a complicated cavity which extends between the navicula- cuneiform articulation, and is prolonged forwards between the cuneiforms, and also between the cuboid and lateral cuneiform bones. This cavity, however, is not confined to the tarsus, but is continuous with the cavity between the second and third metatarsal bones and the tarsus, as well as with the cavities of the joints between the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; (5) a separate cavity lies between the first metatarsal and the medial cuneiform ; (6) a distinct cavity for the articulations between the cuboid and the 'two lateral metatarsal bones. This is prolonged distally into the joint between the bases of these two metatarsals. Metatarso-phalangeal and Digital Joints.—These joints are constructed upon a plan almost identical with that of the corresponding joints of the upper extremity. For the detailed description the student is therefore referred to p. 163. In the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe the thick pla?itar accessory Iiga7>ie7it or fib7-ous plate holds two large sesamoid bones, which slide upon grooved surfaces on the head of the metatarsal bone. Movements.—The movements which take place in the tarso-metatarsal, intermetatarsal, and in the majority of the tarsal joints, are of a gliding character. In the joints between the talus and navicular, and also between the calcaneus and the cuboid, movements of a wider range are ^ The lateral interosseous tarso-metatarsal ligament, which passes from the lateral cuneiform bone (frequently from the cuboid bone) to the base of the fourth metatarsal bone, separates the cavity between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones and the cuboid from the general tarsal articular cavity.ARTICULATIONS 339 possible. It is here that the movements of inversion and eversion of the foot chiefly take place. The first and the fifth metatarsal bones enjoy a considerable degree of mobility. The second metatarsal is so tightly grasped by the medial and lateral cuneiform bones, and so firmly bound to the tarsus by its basal ligaments, that only a slight degree of movement is possible. At the metatarso-phalangeal joints, flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction are allowed ; whilst the digital joints only permit of flexion and extension. In the erect posture the parts of the foot which are chiefly concerned in transmitting the weight of the body to the ground are the heel, the head of the first metatarsal bone, and the shaft of the fifth metatarsal bone. Rather more than the middle third of the medial border of the foot is raised above the ground. The lateral border of the foot is more or less in contact with the ground in its entire extent, whilst the tips of the toes rest lightly on the ground. In walking—(i) the heel is brought down ; (2) the sole and toes follow ; (3) the heel is raised, and the weight of the body is transferred to the heads of the metatarsal bones and the toes. In the second and third parts of this operation the arches of the foot are flattened to a certain extent, but more especially in the third part of the process is the transverse arch spread out. Great elasticity is thus given to the step. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in producing eversion of the foot are the three peroneal muscles ; those which operate as invertors of the foot are the tibialis anterior and the tibialis posterior. The extensors of the toes are the extensor hallucis longus, the extensor digitorum brevis, and the extensor digitorum longus. The lumbrical muscles, and the interosseous muscles, through their insertions into the extensor tendons of the four outer toes, operate as extensors of the second and third phalanges. The flexors of the p'oximal phalanges are the lumbricales, interossei, flexor hallucis brevis, and flexor digit! quinti brevis. The flexor of the second phalanges is the flexor digitorum brevis ; whilst the flexors of the distal phalanges are the flexor digitorum longus, the quadratus plantaj and the flexor hallucis longus. Abduction and adduction of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joints are produced by the interosseous muscles, the abductor hallucis, the adductor hallucis obliquus, the transverse head of the adductor hallucis, and the abductor digiti quinti. The movements of abduction and adduc- tion take place with reference to a line drawn through the second toe.ABDOMEN 34° ABDOMEN. When the body is brought into the dissecting-room, it is first placed in the lithotomy position (Fig. 127), and is retained in that posture for three days, during which time the dis- sector of the abdomen is expected to dissect the permeum. MALE PERINEUM. Boundaries of the Perineum.—The perineum may be said to correspond to the inferior aperture or outlet of the pelvis. It is necessary, then, that the student should renew his acquaintance with this part of the skeleton before he begins the dissection. Let him obtain a pelvis with the liga- ments in situ. He will observe that he has to deal with a diamond-shaped space, and that it has the following bound- aries : anteriorly, the symphysis pubis and the arcuate pubic ligament (O.T. sub-pubic); posteriorly, the coccyx ; and on each side from before backwards, the rami of the pubis and ischium, the tuberosity of the ischium, and the ligamentum sacro-tuber- osum (O.T. great sciatic). If he now turn his attention to the subject before him he can readily identify these limits. The ligamentum sacro-tuberosum, however, is somewhat obscured, from its being covered by the glutseus maximus muscle, but it can be felt by pressing deeply in a line between the ischial tuberosity and the coccyx (Figs. 127 and 128). In the undissected body the superficial area of the perineum is very limited; indeed, when the limbs are extended and approximated (as is the case when one stands erect), it merely consists of a narrow groove running forwards between the thighs from the coccyx towards the pubis. In this groove are placed the anus or orifice of the anal canal and the roots of the scrotum and penis, whilst in the middle line a cutaneous ridge—the median raphe—may be seen. This raphe can be traced from the anus forwards over the scrotum and along the under surface of the penis. Subdivision of the Space.—The perineal space has, there- fore, a diamond-shaped form, and it is customary to subdivideMALE PERINEUM 341 it arbitrarily into two portions by drawing an imaginary transverse line between the anterior parts of the ischial tuberosities, immediately in front of the anus. Two triangles are thus mapped out. The anterior of these may be appro- priately called the urogenital triangle^ because the most im- portant objects which it contains are the urethra and the root of the penis; the posterior may be distinguished as the anal triangle, from its containing the anal canal. Fig. 127.—Body in Perineal Posture. Preparation of Part for Dissection;—To prepare the part for dissection, a staff should first be introduced into the bladder. The dissector must stand upon the left side of the subject. Having smeared the instrument with oil, hold it lightly in the right hand and guide it gently along the upper and right wall of the urethra. When the point of the instrument reaches the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament),—a strong aponeurotic structure which is stretched tightly across the pubic arch—depress the handle, but use no force. Should any diffi culty be experienced, introduce the forefinger of the left hand into the rectum to guide the point of the instrument along the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra. The most dependent part of the scrotum should now be stitched to the prepuce of the penis, and dragging both penis and scrotum forwards upon the staff, they should be fixed by means of the twine to its handle, l^astly, fasten the handle of the staff to the cord which passes behind the flexed knee-joints of the subject. The anal canal should then be slightly distended with tow, and the orifice of the anus stitched up. I—22 aABDOMEN 342 Reflection of Skin.—Two incisions are required :—(Fig. 127) (i) a transverse incision along the line which separates the anal from the urogenital triangle—i.e. in front of the tuberosities of the ischia ; (2) an incision at right angles to the first in the line of the median raphe. This incision should begin well forwards on the scrotum and be continued back a little beyond the point of the coccyx. The knife should be carried round the anus so as to encircle it. The four triangular flaps which are marked out should now be reflected. Some difficulty will be experienced in raising the skin. This is due to the presence of a number of fasciculi of involuntary muscle which radiate outwards from the anus. The term corrugator cutis ani is applied to this muscle. The stiperjicial fascia and the external sphincter jnuscle are now exposed. Fig. 128.—Outlet of Male Pelvis. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The student should examine the superficial fascia as it is spread over the entire extent of the perineal space. It shows great differences in character and texture in different positions. At the side of the anus it is remarkable for the large quantity of fat it holds in its meshes. This fat is soft and lobulated, and passes upwards upon each side of the anal canal in the form of a pliable and elastic pad. Over the tuberosities of the ischia the superficial fascia under- goes a striking alteration. Here it becomes tough and stringy; dense fibrous septa separate the lobules of fat from each other and connect the skin with the subjacent bone.343 MALE PERINEUM Make a deep incision into it with the knife, and a bursa will be displayed intervening between the fascia and bone. This bursal sac is frequently intersected by strong fibrous bands or cords. In this locality the superficial fascia acts as a cushion on which the tuber ischiadicum rests when the body is in the sitting posture. But, again, if the superficial fascia be now followed anteriorly, over the urogenital triangle, another change in its character becomes manifest. The farther forwards it is traced the scarcer becomes the fat which it contains in its meshes. In the scrotum the fat entirely disappears and gives place to a thin layer of involuntary muscular fibres. These fibres con- stitute the dartos muscle, and are recognised by their ruddy colour. The rugosity of the scrotal integument is caused by their contraction. Over the urogenital triangle the superficial fascia can be shown to consist of two very definite layers. The superficial layer is fatty and is not confined to this region. In fact, it is simply a portion of the general fatty covering of the body. Posteriorly, it is continuous with the plugs of fat which fill up the ischio-rectal fossae; on either side, it leaves the perineum and becomes continuous with the fatty tissue on the medial aspects of the thighs. The deep layer is of an altogether different nature. It is a dense membranaceous stratum, devoid of fat, which is spread over the urogenital triangle. It is called the fascia of Colles. This sheet of fascia forms very definite attachments around the limits of the urogenital triangle. Thus, on either side, it is fixed to the anterior lips of the rami of the pubis and ischium, whilst, posteriorly, it is tucked round the two superficial transverse perineal muscles and blends with the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.'F. triangular ligament). A pouch is thus formed, bounded superficially by the fascia of Colies, deeply by the urogenital diaphragm, laterally by the attachment of these to the sides of the pubic arch, whilst, posteriorly, it is closed by the union of the fascia of Colles with the base of the fascia of the urino- genital diaphragm (Fig. 129, p. 344). Within-this pouch certain important parts are placed—viz., the superficial peri- neal muscles, the perineal vessels and the scrotal nerves, the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh, the bulb and crura of the penis, and the termina- tion of the pudendal artery. The pouch is partially dividedABDOMEN 344 into two lateral parts by a median septum, which dips deeply from the superficial fascia. This septum is very perfect CORPUS CAVERN05UI urethrae CORP. CAVCRNO ."penis TASCIA or COLLES RAM.PE.RINCUS OF N.CUTAN.FEM POST. BUL60 XAVCRNOSUS ISCHIO AVCRNOSOS OIAPHRACMA tUROCENITAUE ^ l/C. J r^^ERlNEl TRAN^ PERINEU^ SUPERFuM CORPUS CAVCMfiOSUM PEN»S CORPUS CAVCRNOSUM ijrctmrac SPERM.CORO Inferior haimorrhoidal nerve Inferior ha'inorrlioidal artery Fig. 129. — Dissection of the Perineum. The Scrotum and the Penis have been cut transversely across and removed. posteriorly, but becomes incomplete towards the scrotum. Anteriorly, the fascia of Colics passes over the scrotum, penis, and spermatic cords, to the anterior aspect of the abdomen, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of Scarpa.345 MALE PERINEUM How to verify these facts.—The student can verify these facts in two ways, viz.—(i) by inflating the pouch with air, and (2) by dissection. Make a longitudinal incision, large enough to admit the nozzle of the bellows (or better still an injection pipe fitted to a bicycle-pump), into the superficial fascia towards the back part of the pouch and a little to one side of the middle line. This cut must be carried through the fascia until the fibres of the superficial perineal muscles are exposed. In using the pump the margins of the opening into the pouch must be held tightly around the nozzle of the pipe. The air which is introduced passes forwards, and is first confined to one side of the pouch. Reaching the scrotum, however, where the septum is incomplete, it forces its way across the middle line, and inflates the opposite side of the pouch. The pouch is now rendered prominent, and the attachments of the fascia become very evident. The air cannot pass into the rectal triangle owing to the union of the fascia of Colles with the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ; it cannot pass down the medial aspect of the thighs on account of the attachment of the fascia to the sides of the pubic arch ; it can only force its way forwards under the superficial fascia and dartos muscle of the scrotum, and from this on to the penis and along the spermatic cords to the anterior aspect of the abdomen. By this means the dissector obtains a very striking view of the course which would be taken by urine escaping from a rupture in the urethra below the urogenital diaphragm. The attachments of the fascia of Colles are so important that the student should also test them by dissection. To do this it is necessary to make two incisions through the superficial fascia. Enter the knife in the middle line at the root of the scrotum, and carry it posteriorly and laterally to the tuber ischii on each side of the body. A central /\-shaped flap and two lateral flaps of fascia are thus marked out. By raising and turning back- wards the central portion, the septum of the pouch is brought into view, and the attachment of the fascia to the base of the urogenital diaphragm is demonstrated. When the lateral flaps are turned aside each will be seen to be firmly fixed to the border of the pubic arch. In effecting this dissection the utmost care is demanded on the part of the student. In the areolar tissue immediately subjacent to the superficial fascia are the superficial perineal vessels and scrotal nerves, which are certain to be injured, or perhaps even reflected with the fascia, unless the greatest caution be exercised. Anal Triangle. The dissection of this portion of the perineal space will disclose the following parts :— 1. The external sphincter ani muscle. 2. The anal canal covered by the levator ani muscle and the anal fascia. 3. The parietal or obturator layer of pelvic fascia. 4. The lower border of the glutccus maximus muscle and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sciatic). 5. The coccygeus muscle. 6. The inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. 7. The perineal artery. 8. The perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. 9. The perineal nerve and its branches. 10. The perforating cutaneous branch of the second and third sacral nerves.ABDOMEN 346 Sphincter Ani Externus.—When this muscle is cleaned it will be seen to consist of a thick ring of muscular fibres surrounding the orifice of the anal canal. Posteriorly^ it is attached, by a pointed tendon, to the tip and posterior surface of the terminal part of the coccyx; anteriorly, it blends with other perineal muscles in the central point of the perineum. The fibres, in passing between these two points of attachment, encircle the anal orifice and constitute a true sphincter muscle. Some of the superficial fibres, both in front and behind the anal opening, are di- rectly attached to the skin. It draws its nerv- ous supply from two sources, viz., the foii7ih sacral nerve and the in- ferior hceni07'rhoidal 7terve. Ischio-rectal Fossa.— Although the anal canal is the largest and most important object which is contained within the posterior portion of the perineum, it does not fill up the entire extent of the anal triangle. An interval or recess is left upon each side of the anal canal—between it and the ischium, — and to this recess is given the name of the ischio-7-ectal fossa. In shape the ischio-rectal fossa is pyramidal, the apex of the pyramid being directed superiorly towards the pelvic cavity, and the base inferiorly towards the integuments. The medial wall of the space is sloping, whilst the lateral wall is steep and perpendicular. Boundaries.—Whilst the term '■'■ischio-rectal" is applied to this fossa, it must be borne in mind that neither the ischium nor the anal canal enters directly into the formation of its walls. Both are separated from the space by fascial and muscular layers. Upon the medial aspect of the ischium is the obturator Fig. 130.—Diagram. The arrow is directed upwards into the ischio-rectal fossa. The parietal pelvic fascia is seen upon the inner surface of the obturator internus. Observe also the anal fascia clothing the lateral surface of the levator ani and the rectal fascia upon its medial surface.MALE PERINEUM 347 internus muscle, and this again is covered by the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia which is continued down to be attached to the tuberosity of the ischium and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. On the other hand, the anal canal is clothed latero-medially by—(i) the anal fascia or inferior fascia of the pelvic diaphragm, a thin aponeurotic membrane which invests the lateral surface of the levator ani; (2) by the levator ani muscle ; and (3) by the rectal portion of the upper fascia of the pelvic diaphragm (O.T. visceral layer of the pelvic fascia)—a thin layer of fascia which covers that part of the medial surface of the levator ani which is applied to the anal part of the rectum (Fig. 130). Strictly speaking, therefore, the perpendicular lateral or ischial ivall of the fossa is formed by the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia, and the sloping medial or rectal wall by the anal fascia. Anteriorly, the space is limited by the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament)—whilst posteriorly, it is bounded by the posterior or distal margin of the glutreus maximus and the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum. Contents.—The ischio-rectal fossa is completely filled up by a mass of fat which is prolonged upwards into it from the superficial fascia. The soft, pliable nature of this fat readily allows of the distension of the anal canal. Embedded in its midst are certain blood-vessels and nerves. Crossing the fossa from its lateral to its medial wall are the mferior hcemorrhoidal vessels and nerve; entering the fossa at its posterior part is the peritieal branch of the fotirth sacral nerve; turning round the distal border of the glutaeus maximus, not far from the coccyx, is the perforating cutaneous branch of the second and third sacral nerves; whilst in the anterior part of the space will be found the scrotal branches of the perineal nerve (Fig. 129). Dissection.—Begin by exposing the margin of the gluUeus maximus muscle. Take a point a short distance to the lateral side of the tuber ischiadicum and another in the middle line about an inch above the tip of the coccyx, and cut boldly down through the superficial fascia, in a line between these points, until the fleshy fibres become visible. Winding round the margin of the muscle, so as to gain its superficial aspect, there are a few small arteries and nerves. The arteries are derived from the inferior luemorrhoidal vessels, or from the inferior gluteal arterj', whilst the nerves are the perforating cutaneous branch from the second and third sacral nerves and some offsets from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. .-Ml are destined for the supply of the skin on the distal part of the gluteal region. The perforating cutaneous nerve turns round the margin of the gluteus maximus close to the coccyx, whilst the cutaneous branches from the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh appear on theABDOMEN 348 lateral side of the tuber ischiadicum. Having secured these vessels and nerves, clean the distal margin of the glutasus maximus, and then proceed to dissect the ischio-rectal fossa. If the subject is obese, a considerable quantity of fat may be removed at once without endangering the inferior heemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Take the surface of the glutaeus maximus and the margin of the external sphincter as guides, and transfix the fat with the knife in this plane. The adipose tissue superficial to this plane may be removed en masse with safety. The hcetriorrhoidal vessels and nerve may be found by dissecting cautiously in the fat and carrying the knife in an oblique direction, from behind forwards and from the lateral to the medial wall of the space. The perineal branch from the fourth sacral nerve appears by the side of the coccyx. Roof of the Space.—When the contents of the space are secured, continue to remove the fat from the fossa until its walls are fully displayed. On passing the finger upwards, its passage into the pelvis is prevented by the junction of the anal fascia with the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia (Fig. 130, p. 346). Further, if the anal fascia be removed, its entrance into the pelvis is still resisted by the levator ani muscle and also by the visceral layer of pelvic fascia, which at this level passes medially on the superior surface of the levator ani. Internal Pudendal Vessels (O.T. Internal Pudic) and Pudendal Nerve (O.T. Pudic).—The dissector should now pass his finger upwards and downwards, over the surface of the parietal or obturator layer of the pelvic fascia which covers the obturator internus muscle and forms the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. About an inch and a half above the inferior border of the ischial tuberosity he will feel, very distinctly, the pudendal vessels and nerve as they pass forwards to gain the urethral triangle. In this position they are enclosed in a tube or sheath formed by the parietal pelvic fascia. This fascial tunnel is called Alcock’s canal. The student must for the present be satisfied with palpating these structures. To expose them would necessitate the division of the parietal part of the pelvic fascia, and this should be kept entire until the pelvic fascia can be studied as a whole. Arterise Hsemorrhoidales Inferiores.—The inferior htemor- rhoidal arteries, usually two or three in number, are branches of the internal pudendal. They pierce the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, and pass medially through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa to supply the anal canal and the muscles in connection with it, as well as the skin around the anus.349 MALE PERINEUM Around the anus they anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and with branches from the middle and superior haemorrhoidal arteries. They likewise send a few twigs round the distal border of the glutseus maximus, in company with the perforating cutaneous nerve, to supply the skin in the distal part of the buttock. Inferior Haemorrhoidal Nerve.—This nerve accompanies the vessels of the same name. It may proceed directly from the sacral plexus, but more frequently it is a branch of the pudendal nerve. It perforates the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and then it breaks up into muscular, cutaneous, and communicating branches. The muscular iivigs supply the external sphincter ani: the cutaneous offsets are given to the skin which surrounds the anus, while the communicating fila7)ients pass forwards to join the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh and the scrotal nerves. Perineal Branch of Fourth Sacral Nerve.—This small nerve enters the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the coccygeus muscle at the side of the coccyx. It is distributed to the skin between the anus and coccyx, and to the external sphincter ani muscle. The perineal artery and the perineal nerve will be found in the anterior angle of the fossa close to the lateral wall. Ano-coccygeal Body.—An indefinite mass of muscular and fibrous tissue which lies between the tip of the coccyx and the anus receives the name of ano-coccygeal body. It is best seen in sections through the pelvis, and it requires notice on account of the support which it gives to the lower part of the rectum and the anal canal. The muscular tissue which enters into its constitution belongs to the levator ani and the external and internal sphincter muscles (Symington). Urogenital Triangle. The superficial fascia in this locality has already been studied. The following is a list of the structures which still require to be examined :— 1. The posterior scrotal vessels and nerves. 2. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. 3. The root of the penis. {The bulb and the crura.ABDOMEN 35° 4- 5- 6. 7- 8. 9- lO. fa. M. superficialis transversus 0. M. Bulbo-cavernosus. c. M. Ischio-cavernosus. Inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. The internal pudendal vessels and the pudendal nerve and their branches. M. transversus perinei profundus and M. sphincter urethra: mem- branaceaa. Cowper’s glands. The membranous portion of the urethra. Superior fascia of urogenital diaphragm. Superficial Perineal Vessels and Scrotal Nerves (O.T. Perineal).—The superficial perineal vessels and the scrotal nerves must now be followed out:— Arteries -f perineal artery. \ 2. The transverse branch of the perineal artery. ' I. The scrotal nerves. Nerves. - 2. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The perineal artery., a branch of the pudendal, first pierces the medial wall of Alcock’s canal, and then the base of the urogenital diaphragm, so as to gain the interior of the perineal pouch of fascia. It now crosses the superficial transversus perinei muscle, and is continued anteriorly, in the interval between the bulbo-cavernosus and ischio-cavernosus, to the scrotum, to the dartos muscle and integuments to which it is distributed in the form of numerous long, slender branches, the posterior scrotal arteries. Before it reaches the scrotum, it supplies twigs to the superficial perineal muscles. It is accompanied by the posterior scrotal branches of the perineal nerve. The transverse perineal artery is a small vessel which usually springs from the preceding. It pierces the base of the fascia of the urogenital diaphragm, and, gaining the surface of the transversus perinei superficialis muscle, proceeds transversely and medially to the interval between the rectum and the bulb, where it ends by supplying the parts in this locality, and by anastomosing with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The posterior scrotal nerves are branches of the perineal division of the pudendal nerve. They appear in the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa after piercing the fascia on its lateral wall. They leave the fossa by piercing the base ofMALE PERINEUM 351 the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm and passing either superficial or deep to the superficial trans- verse muscle, then they run forwards in the urogenital triangle to the skin of the scrotum. As they pass forwards they anastomose with the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The deep branch of the perineal nerve passes deep to the superficial transverse perineal muscle and ends in branches to the deep transverse muscle, the superficial perineal muscles, and the bulb of the penis. Dissection.—Instead of searching for the long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh at the point where it becomes super- ficial, and then following it towards its distribution, it is much easier to find it after it has entered the perineal pouch of fascia. Here it will be discovered lying in close relation to the two preceding nerves, but to the lateral side of them. Trace it forwards and backwards. It communicates with the inferior hremorrhoidal nerve, and also with the posterior super- ficial perineal nerve. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh (O.T. lotig pudendal nerve) pierces the deep fascia of the thigh a short distance in front of the tuber ischiadicum, and about an inch and a half to the lateral side of the margin of the pubic arch. As it proceeds forwards it inclines medially, and, piercing the attachment of Colles’ fascia to the margin of the pubic arch, it accompanies the other vessels and nerves to the scrotum, the lateral and front part of which it supplies. Dissection.—Divide the superficial -perineal vessels and nerves, and throw them aside. Root of the Penis.—At this stage of the dissection the student should consider the position of the urogenital diaphragm, and the relation which it bears to the root of the penis. The urogenital diaphragm is a strong triangular jDarti- tion which stretches acro.ss the pubic arch and separates the anterior part of the perineum from the pelvis. It consists of the deep transverse muscle of the perineum, and the sphincter urethrae membranaceae, enclosed between two layers of fascia, an upper and a lower. The tw'o layers of fascia are blended together anteriorly and posteriorly. They are attached laterally to the margins of the pubic arch, and they enclose between them a space which encloses not only the muscular part of the diaphragm but also the membranous portion of the352 ABDOMEN urethra, the bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s), the terminal parts of the internal pudendal vessels and some of their branches, and the dorsal nerves of the penis. The blended anterior margins of the inferior fascia of the urogenital dia- phragm (O.T. superficial layer of the triangular ligament), and the superior fascia of the uroge?iital diaphragm (O.T. deep layer of the triangular ligament) form the transverse ligament of the pelvis, and their blended posterior margins form the base of the urogenital diaphragm (triangular ligament). The space between the two layers is spoken of as the deep compartment, or pouch, of the urethral triangle, and the area en- closed between the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm and the fascia of Colics is the superficial pouch. This latter pouch has already been opened, and the superficial vessels and nerves which form part of its contents have been displayed. The root of the penis also lies within the superficial area of the urethral triangle, in relation with the inferior aspect of the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. With the handle of the knife clear away, for a short distance, the loose tissue which surrounds the body of the penis, which will then be seen to consist of two masses; a superior, the corpjis cavernosum penis, and an inferior, the corpus cavernosum urethrce. The corpus cavernosum penis forms the main mass of the anterior two-thirds of the penis. It has the form of a flattened cylinder grooved upon its superior and inferior surfaces. Anteriorly the corpus cavernosum is partially separated into two lateral halves by a perforated septum. Posteriorly, at the apex of the pubic arch, it divides into two lateral portions the crura of the penis. The groove on the superior surface lodges the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and the corpus cavernosum urethrae lies in the deeper groove on the inferior surface. Immedi- ately behind the point where it diverges from the corpus cavernosum penis each crus is slightly dilated, thence, back- Dorsal Dorsal artery vein / Dorsal nerve —Corpus caver- nosum urethrae Urethra Fig. 131.—Transverse section through the body of the Penis.353 MALE PERINEUM wards to its posterior extremity, it gradually tapers away, and it is firmly fixed to the corresponding pubic arch, by an attachment which extends from the apex of the arch back- wards to within a short distance of the tuber ischiadicum; it is also attached to the adjacent part of the lower surface of the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. The corpus cavernosum urethrce is slender in comparison with the corpus cavernosum penis, it is lodged in the groove on the inferior Urogenital diaphragm Trans versus perinei Ischial tuberosity Corpus cavernosum penis cavernosum urethr$ Fig. 132.—The Root of the Penis and the Urogenital Diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament) (formalin specimen). surface of the latter, and it is traversed throughout its whole length by the urethra. It is continued posteriorly, beyond the point where the corpus cavernosum penis divides into the two crura, to within a short distance of the anus, and as it passes backwards it expands, forming the bulbus urethrce which lies between the diverging crura, and is attached by its superior surface to the inferior surface of the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. The [)Osterior extremity of the bulb is frequently .notched in the middle line—an indication of an original double constitution. VOL. I—2:3354 ABDOMEN The bulb and the two crura together constitute the root of the penis, and each is provided with a special muscle, which at present hides it from view. Clothing the bulb the student will recognise a bipenniform muscle called the bulbo-caverfiosus, whilst moulded upon the surface of each crus is the ischio- cavernosus. These muscles should now be cleaned and their connections examined. Corpus cavernosum penis Ereclile tissue of bulb Urethra (divided) Bulb of corpus cavernosum urethrae Fascia covering bulb divided where it is continuous with the urogenital diaphragm Crus penis : surface at* tached to the pubic arch Fig. 133.—Dorsal or attached aspect of the Penis. The specimen was hardened by formalin injection and removed from the pubic arch and the triangular ligament. Superficial Perineal Muscles.—Under this heading are included not only the bulbo-cavernosus and ischio-cavernosus muscles, but also the superficial transverse perineal muscles. The superficial perineal muscles have been seen to lie within the pouch formed by the superficial fascia and the urogenital diaphragm. When the superficial fascia is removed each will be found to be invested by its own delicate aponeurotic layer. M. Transversus Perinei Superficialis.—This is a narrow slip of muscular fibres which arises from the medial aspectMALE PERINEUM 355 of the inferior ramus of the ischium close to the tuber- osity. It passes medially and unites with the corresponding muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perineum. The central point of the perineum is a tendinous septum, situated in the middle line of the body, close to the posterior end of the bulb and a short distance in front of the anus. Towards this point a number of the perineal muscles converge to obtain attachment. Oji each side, it gives attachment to the superficial transverse perineal muscles; posteriorly, to the sphincter ani; anteriorly, to the posterior fibres of the bulbo- cavernosus; whilst superiorly, the anterior fibres of the levator ani descend to reach it. Musculus Bulbo-cavernosus (O.T. Ejaculator Urinse).—This muscle is spread over the bulb and posterior part of the corpus cavernosum urethrae. It is composed of two symmetrical halves, and its fibres take origin from the central point of the perineum and from a fibrous median raphe which is prolonged forwards between the two halves of the muscle. The insertion differs according to the point at which the muscle is examined. The posterior fibres are simply attached to the superficial aspect of the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm; the middle fibres, constituting the greater part of the muscle, sweep around the corpus cavernosum urethrte, so as to invest it completely, and are inserted into a common aponeurosis upon the superior surface of this portion of the penis ; lastly, the anterior fibres form two long narrow muscular bands which diverge from each other like the limbs of the letter V, and, passing forwards over the sides of the corpus cavernosum penis, are inserted into an aponeurosis on the dorsum of the penis. Thus the posterior fibres partially embrace the bulb; the middle fibres embrace the corpus cavernosum urethrae; whilst the ayiterior fibres embrace the body of the penis. The bulbo-cavernosus supports the urethra during micturition, and by its contraction it ejects the last drops of urine or semen from the passage. Musculus Ischio-cavemosus (O.T. Erector Penis).—The ischio-cavernosus lies upon the crus penis. It arises by fleshy fibres from the medial a.spect of the tuber ischiadicum, and is inserted by an aponeurotic expansion into the lower and lateral surface of the anterior portion of the crus. Perineal Nerve.—This is one of the two terminal branches3S6 ABDOMEN of the pudendal nerve. It supplies twigs to the skin, to the muscles of the perineum, and to the bulb of the penis. The cutaneous scrotal branches have already been followed out. Muscular tivigs, occupying a deeper plane, may be traced to each of the three superficial perineal muscles and to the levator ani, whilst a few minute offsets pierce the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm to supply the deep transversus perinei muscle. The 7ierve to the bulb is a small branch which breaks up into filaments which enter the hinder part of the corpus cavernosum urethrae. Perineal Triangles.—If the superficial perineal muscles be now examined, in regard to the relations which they hold to each other, the student will see that they constitute the boundaries of a small triangular space upon each side of the middle line. The base of the triangle is formed by the superficial transversus perinei; laterally it is limited by the ischio-cavernosus, and medially by the bulbo-cavernosus. Let the student now place the point of his finger within this space and press upwards and backwards. He will perceive that it rests upon a strong resisting membrane. This is the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm (O.T. triangular ligament), which therefore forms the roof of the space. Dissection.—To bring the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm fully into view, it is necessary in the first place to remove the super- ficial perineal muscles. When this is done the three divisions of the root of the penis are exposed to view, and their manner of attachment (which has already been described, p. 354) can be studied. Detach, in the next place, the left crus of the penis from the side of the pubic arch, and turn it aside. This must be effected with care, so as not to destroy the attach- ment of the ligament to the side of the pubic arch, or to injure the pudendal artery and dorsal nerve of the penis, which pierce the anterior part of the ligament. Lower Fascia of the Urogenital Diaphragm (O.T. Super- ficial Layer of the Triangular Ligament).—This is now seen to be a strong aponeurotic membrane which stretches across the pubic arch. It must be regarded as lying in the same morphological plane as the bony and ligamentous wall of the pelvis, and as completing the pelvic wall in front, much in the same manner as the obturator membrane fills up the gap formed by the obturator foramen. Upon each side the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is attached to the margins of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Its base is somewhat indefinite, and has already been seen to blend along the posterior border of the super-MALE PERINEUM 357 1—23 a ficial transversus perinei muscles with the fascia of Colies. In addition to this attachment, however, a careful dissection in a good subject will show that the central part of the base projects backwards in the form of a short process or beak, which joins the central point of the perineum. Near the symphysis pubis the anterior margin, fused with the anterior margin of the deep fascia of the diaphragm, forms the transverse ligament of the pelvis. Between the anterior Dorsal vein of penis Dorsal artery and nerve of penis Artery to corpus cavernosum penis Transverse ligament of the pelvis Internal pudendal artery Urethra Bulbo-urelhral gland Deep transversus perinei muscle Artery to bulb of urethra Fig. 134.—Deep dissection of the Perineum. The penis has been removed, the urethra cut across, and the inferior layer of the urogenital diaphragm removed on the left side. border of this band and the arcuate ligament of the pubis an oval gap is left for the passage of the dorsal vein of the penis. In the erect posture of the body the superficial surface of the urogenital diaphragm looks downwards and forwards, whilst its deep surface looks upwards and backwards towards the cavity of the pelvis. In close contact with its superficial surface are the parts which constitute the root of the penis, viz., the bulb and the two crura and the muscles which are associated with them, also the superficial transversus perinei muscle on each side. The structures which lie betweenABDOMEN 358 its two layers will be studied when the superficial layer is reflected. The inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is not an unbroken continuous layer. It is pierced—(i) by the urethra; (2) by the internal pudendal arteries; (3) by the dorsal nerves of the penis; (4) by the arteries to the bulb ; (5) and lastly, at its base, where it blends with the superficial fascia, by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The aperture for the tirethra is situated in the middle line, one inch below the symphysis pubis. It is not a clean-cut hole with sharp edges. The margins of the opening, which are separated by a considerable interval from the circumference of the urethra, are prolonged over the bulb of the penis so as to form for it an aponeurotic capsule. As soon as the urethra gains the superficial aspect of the fascia it sinks into the bulb, and is carried forwards through the entire length of the corpus cavernosum urethrte to its external opening on the glans penis. On either side of the urethral aperture there is a small opening in the fascia which gives passage to the corresponding artery to the bulb. Half an inch farther forwards the dorsal nerve of the penis and the inter7ial pudendal artery pierce the fascia on either side, close to the margin of the pubic arch, and under cover of the corresponding crus penis. The term “ inferior or superficial fascia ” of the urogenital diaphragm which is applied to this membrane, implies that there is a deeper or superior fascia to be studied in connec- tion with it; and so there is. But whilst these fascije are very intimately connected, they must be looked upon as being distinct structures. The superficial or inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm is in the same morphological plane as the bony wall of the pelvis and the obturator mem- brane, and, in fact, completes the pelvic wall in front. The superior fascia of the urogetiital diaphragm is simply the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia carried round to the front of the pelvis. Consequently the connections of the latter layer can be examined very much better in conjunction with the pelvic fascia. It should now be noted (1) that it forms with the inferior fascia the urogenital diaphragm ; (2) that the anterior and posterior margins of the two layers are blended together;. (3) that the intermediate interval between the two is closed laterally by the attachment of both layers to the margins of359 MALE PERINEUM the pubic arch ; and (4) that the space between the two layers contains:— 1. The membranous portion of the urethra and its sphincter muscle. 2. The deep transverse perineal muscle. 3. The bulbo-urethral (Cowper’s) glands. 4. The internal pudendal vessels, the dorsal nerves of the penis, and the arteries to the bulb. Dissection.—To e.xpose these parts, the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm must be raised upon one side of the body. It should be carefully preserved upon the opposite side, for it is required as a landmark in the subsequent dissection of the pelvis. On the side selected detach the membrane from the margin of the pubic arch, and, cautiously raising it from the subjacent structures, throw it medially towards the bulb. Pars Membranaceae Urethrae (Membranous Portion of the Urethra).—The canal of the urethra is subdivided for descrip- tive purposes into three parts, according to the structures which are in relation to its walls as it passes from the bladder to its termination on the glans penis. These are—(i) the prostatic portion; (2) the membranous or muscular portion; and (3) the cavernous portion. Each of these subdivisions has a very definite relation to the urogenital diaphragm; the prostatic part is placed above and posterior to both layers of the diaphragm; the membranous part is situated between the two layers; whilst the cavernous portion lies anterior and inferior to the diaphragm. Now that the superficial fascia of the diaphragm is removed upon one side, the student can readily feel, with the point of the finger, the staff as it lies within the membranous portion of the urethra. He should examine the surroundings of this canal. It is the shortest subdivision of the urethra, and is distant about one inch from the symphysis pubis. Throughout its entire extent it is enveloped by the fibres of the sphincter muscle, and on this account it is sometimes called the muscular part of the urethra. On each side, and at a lower level, is a bulbo-urethral (Cowper’s) gland, whilst between it and the symphysis pubis is the dorsal vein of the penis which is separated from it by the transverse liga- ment of the pelvis. M. Transversus Perinei Profundus and M. Sphincter Urethrae Membranaceae (O.T. Compressor Urethrae Muscle). —The deep transverse muscle of the perineum is a small fan-shaped muscle which lies between the fascial layers of the urogenital diaphragm. It has a tendinous origin 1—23 6ABDOMEN 3<5o from the margin of the pubic arch at the junction of the pubic and ischial rami. Expanding as it passes medially, it unites with its fellows of the opposite side in a medial raphe below and behind the membranous part of the urethra. Its posterior border lies in the angle between the superficial and deep fascial layers of the urogenital diaphragm, and its anterior border is blended with the external layer of the sphincter muscle of the membranous urethra. The sphincter of the membranous urethra consists of internal and external groups of fibres. The internal group is formed of circular fibres which embrace the urethra; they are continuous above with the muscular fibres of the prostate and below with the circular muscular fibres around the posterior part of the cavernous portion of the urethra. The external layer consists of transverse fibres which rise, together with the deep trans- verse muscle of the perineum, from the margin of the pubic arch and from the superficial layer of the urogenital diaphragm. As they approach the median plane some of the fibres pass anterior and some posterior to the membranous part of the urethra, where they blend with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. These muscles are supplied by one or two delicate twigs from the perineal division of the pude7idal 7ierve. Glandulse Bulbo-urethrales (O.T. Cowper’s Glands).—As a general rule, these glands can readily be detected by raising the posterior fibres of the deep transverse perineal muscles. They are small lobulated bodies of a deep yellow colour, and resemble peas both in size and shape. They are placed one on each side of the middle line, immediately below the membranous part of the urethra, and are overlapped by the posterior part of the bulb—separated from it, however, by the superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. From each a minute duct proceeds, but this duct does not open into the membranous portion of the urethra. It passes forwards between the wall of the urethra and the substance of the bulb for the distance of one inch, and opens on the floor of the cavernous part of the urethra. Art. Pudenda Interna (O.T. Internal Pudic).—The in- ternal pudendal artery is a branch of the hypogastric. It is met with in three different regions of the body—viz. (i) within the cavity of the pelvisj (2) in the glutfeal region, where it lies upon the spine of the ischium; and (3) in the perineal space. It is consequently described as con-361 MALE PERINEUM sisting of a pelvic^ a glutceal, and a perineal part. The perineal or third part of the pudendal artery enters the perineum by passing through the small sciatic foramen. At first it is placed deeply; but it is found to become more superficial, as it is traced forwards, and at the same time to incline medially, so that, at its termination, it lies close to the middle line of the body. In the rectal triangle the pudendal artery is contained Bladder Bulbo'cavernosus covering the bulb of penis Pelvic fascia Obturator intemus Prostate Prostatic urethra Levator ani Pubic arch Deep perine^-. . muscles Urogenital diaphragm , (inferior layer) Crus penis Ischio-cavernosus Superficial perir vessels and nerves Fascia of Colies Upper fascia of Ivic diaphragm T. visceral layer) vie fascia Sheath of prostate Anal fascia Parietal pelvic fascia Obturator membrane diaphragm layer) ssels and Crus penis covered by Ischio-cavernosus Fig. 135.—Vertical section (schematic) through the pubic arch to show the two perineal compartments. within a sheath, termed Alcock’s canal, which is formed by the splitting of that part of the parietal pelvic fascia which forms the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. It lies fully an inch and a half above the level of the lowest part of the ischial tuberosity, and is accompanied by two veins and the two divisions of the pudendal nerve. Of the latter the dorsal nerve of the penis lies above it and the perineal nerve below it. Reaching the base of the urethral triangle, the pudendal artery insinuates itself between the two fasciae of the uro- genital diaphragm, and, gradually emerging from under cover of the bone, proceeds forwards along the edge of the pubicABDOMEN 362 arch to a point about half an inch below the symphysis, where it pierces the superficial layer of the urogenital diaphragm, and immediately ends by, under cover of the crus penis, dividing into two branches—viz. (i) the artery to the corpus cavernosum penis, and (2) the dorsal artery of the penis (Fig. 134, p. 357). Branches of the Internal Pudendal Artery.—The pudendal artery has already been seen to give off the inferiorhcBmorrhoidal, and the permeal arteries, and to divide into its two terminal branches—the dorsal artery of the penis and the artery to the corpus cavertiosum penis. Between the layers of the urogenital diaphragm it gives origin to the artery to the bulb. The artery to the bulb is a short, wide vessel which springs from the pudendal about a quarter of an inch above the level of the base of the urogenital diaphragm. It passes medially, between the two fascise of this diaphragm, and, giving a small twig to the bulbo-urethral gland, it enters the sub- stance of the bulb. It supplies the bulb and corpus cavernosum urethree with blood (Fig. 136). The artery to the corpus' cavernosum pe?iis pierces the medial aspect of the crus penis, and is carried forward in the substance of the corpus cavernosum penis, which it supplies with blood The dorsal artery of the penis runs forward in the interval between the crura penis, and, passing between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis, gains the dorsum of the penis, where it will be afterwards traced (Fig. 222). N. Pndendus (O.T. Pudic Nerve).—The pudendal nerve is a branch of the sacral plexus. Following the internal pudendal artery it enters Alcock’s canal, and, after giving off the inferior hcetnorrhoidal nerve, it divides into two terminal divisions—viz. (i) the perineal nerve, and (2) the dorsal nerve of the penis. The perineal ?ierve has been seen to break up into the following branches:— Cutaneous. Posterior Scrotal. It supplies also one or two branches to the bulb and the corpus cavernosum urethras. (Fig. 136). 5. The nerve to the sphincter urethrte membranacere.363 MALE PERINEUM The dorsal nerve of the penis follows the pudendal artery between the two fascife of the urogenital diaphragm, where it lies more completely under shelter of the side of the pubic arch than the artery. Finally, piercing the superficial layer of the diaphragm, about half an inch below the symphysis pubis, it accompanies the dorsal artery of the penis. At the root of the penis it supplies one or two twigs to the corpus cavernosum penis. Sphincter ani cxtermis Crus peni: Internal pudendal artery Bulb Urogenital diaphragm , ^ (inferior fascial * Urogenital diaphragm (superior fascia) Prostate Levator ani Seminal vesicle Ductus deferens cto*vesical fascia Rectal fascia Rectum Levator ani Clutaeus inaxinms Hulbo-cavcrnosus muscle Ischio-cavernosus muscle Urethra Inf. fasciaofurog. dia. Transversus perinei Colles' fascia I Fig. 136.—Dissection to expose the Prostate from the Perineum. J The dissection of the perineum, to the extent usually possible in three t days, is now completed, and the student should notice that in the urethral ; triangle he has opened two fascia-bounded compartments. The superlicial 1 compartment lies between Colies’ fascia and the urogenital diaphragm. Posteriorly this is closed by the union of the fascia and the diaphragm. Laterally it is closed by the attachment of the fascia and the diaphragm to the rami of the ischium and pubis. Anteriorly, since the fascia of Colles is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdominal wall, the pouch is open, and fluid poured out into it can ]>ass upwards to the abdominal wall. For the contents of the pouch see p. 343. The deep pouch lies between the two fasciic of tlic urogenital diaphragm. It is closed posteriorly and anteriorly by the union of the two layers, and laterally by the attachment of the two layers of the diajihr.agm to the rami , of the pubis and iscliium. For the contents of the deep compartment364 ABDOMEN seefp. 359. Above the superior wall of the deep compartment lie the apex of the prostate gland and the anterior borders of the levatores ani muscles. To approach the prostate, therefore, through the urethral triangle, a series of alternating fascial and muscular strata would have to be divided, viz. 1. The fascia of Colies. 2. The superficial perineal muscles. 3. The superficial fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. 4. The deep transverse perineal muscle and the sphincter of the membranous urethra. 5. The deep fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. This, however, is not a practicable way of approaching the prostate, and the method which should be adopted to display the posterior surface of the gland will be described when the investigation of the pelvic fascia is undertaken (see p. 566). A pad of tow, soaked in a mixture of spirit and carbolic acid, should be placed in the perineum, and the flaps of skin carefully stitched over it. On the fourth day after the body has been brought into the dissecting-room, it is placed upon its back, and the dissectors of the abdomen commence work upon the abdominal wall. FEMALE PERINEUM. The boundaries of the female perineum are identical with those in the male. The region is wider, however, and of greater extent. For purposes of description it is subdivided, by an imaginary transverse line drawm in front of the anus and the tuberosities of the ischium, into a posterior^ anal triangle, and an anterior, urogenital triangle. External Anatomy.—The anal triangle presents the same points for consideration as in the male. The external anatomy of the urogenital triangle demands careful study because it includes the external organs of generation. They are— 1. The mens Veneris. 2. The labia majora. 3. The labia minora. 4. The clitoris. 5. The urethral opening. 6. The vaginal orifice. All these parts are included under the common term of Vulva. Mons Veneris.—This is a marked cushion-like eminence situated in front of the pubes. The projection is due toFEMALE PERINEUM 365 a collection of adipose tissue under the integument. It is covered with hair. Labia Majora.—These correspond to the scrotum in the male, cleft along the middle line. They are two rounded folds, which commence in front at the mons Veneris, where they meet in the anterior commissure, and extend down- wards and backwards towards the anus. They diminish in thickness as they proceed backwards, and they meet posteriorly in the posterior commissure. Laterally they are covered by skin studded with scattered hairs, whilst medially they are coated with smooth humid integument, the free surface of which is lubricated by a semi- solid secretion, de- rived from numerous sebaceous glands which open upon it. During parturition the labia majora are un- folded, and thus give the vagina a greater capability of dilata- tion. The labia majora enclose an elliptical fissure, which is termed the riina pudendi, or the urogenital fissttre, on account of its containing the apertures of the urethra and vagina. Labia Minora or Nympbse.—These represent the male prepuce. They are two pendulous folds of integument which lie within the labia majora. To display them fully the labia majora must be pulled apart. They are placed one on each side of the vaginal orifice. As they proceed forwards they become more prominent, and at the same time converge so as to approximate to each other more closely. Reaching the clitoris, each terminates by splitting into two divisions or folds. The smaller and lower fold is attached to the under surface of the clitoris, and receives the name of frenulum clitoridis. The upper fold arches over the clitoris like a hood, and unites with the corresponding fold of the opposite side to form the preeputium clitoridis.366 ABDOMEN A short distance in front of the posterior commissure the posterior extremities of the labia minora are usually connected Prseputium clitoridis Vestibuluin vaginae terior part) Orificium vaginai F ossa navicularis Anus St clitoridis clitoridis Labium majus T^abium minus ,r urethrae externum Posterior commissure ’ Fig. 138.—Female External Genital Organs. The frenulum labiorum pudendi is seen stretching across behind the fossa navicularis and in front of the posterior commissure. The ducts of Hartholin’s glands open in the intervals between the vaginal orifice and the inner edges of the labia minora. (Dixon.) together by a transverse fold, the frenulum labiorum pudendt, and immediately anterior to and above this fold, between itFEMALE PERINEUM 367 and the posterior border of the orifice of the vagina, is a depression, the fossa navicularis. The frenulum pudendi may be absent, and if present it is usually ruptured during the first labour. It may be well for the student to bear in mind that the term “ perineum ” is used by obstetric surgeons in a very restricted sense. It is applied by them to the small region between the anus and the frenulum labiorum pudendi. Clitoris.—The clitoris is the homologue of the penis, and, notwithstanding its diminutive proportions, it presents a close resemblance to the male organ both in appearance and structure. It is a minute elongated projection placed below the anterior commissure, and surmounted by a sensitive rounded tubercle called the glans, but it is not traversed by the urethra. The manner in which its prepuce and frenum are formed has already been described. To obtain a proper view of the clitoris the student must lay hold of the glans with the forceps and draw it out from the prepuce. Vestibule.—The dissector should next take note of a smooth triangular interval which exists between the clitoris and the entrance to the vagina. The term vestibule is given to this area. It is bounded laterally by the labia minora, and towards its lower part or base is seen the orifice of the urethra. The triangular outline of the vestibule is only seen when the labia are forcibly drawn apart from each other. In the natural condition of parts the labia are in close apposition, and the vestibule is then a deep recess which represents the bottom of the pudendal cleft, between the clitoris and the vagina. Urethral Orifice.—This lies close to the opening of the vagina, about one inch below the clitoris. It usually presents the appearance of a vertical slit, and the mucous membrane around it is prominent, pouting, and slightly puckered, so that when the tip of the finger is passed over the vestibular area the opening can readily be distinguished by touch. Vaginal Orifice.—The vaginal opening in the virgin is partially closed by the hymen—formed by two semilunar folds of mucous membrane attached to the sides of the entrance to the vagina, and united together anteriorly and posteriorly. The form of the hymen, however, is very variable. Some- times it is present in the shape of a septum attached around the entire circumference of the vaginal entrance, but368 ABDOMEN pierced in the centre by a circular opening or a vertical slit j again, it may be cribriform or fringed along its free margin. Lastly, it may constitute a complete septum across the opening of the vaginal canal. In this case awkward results ensue from the retention of the menstrual fluid. After it has been ruptured its position is marked by certain rounded elevations which have received the name of caruncula hymenales. Close to each side of the vaginal orifice, in the groove between it and the posterior part of the labium minus, is the opening of the duct of the large vestibular {Bartholm's) glafjd, an orifice just visible to the naked eye. Passage of Catheter and Examination of Os Uteri.—The dissector should now practise the passing of the female catheter, and afterwards introduce a speculum into the vagina, so as to obtain a view of the os uteri. In passing the catheter the forefinger of the left hand should be placed in the orifice of the vagina, with its palmar surface directed upwards towards the pubes. If the instrument be now passed along this finger and the point raised slightly, when it reaches the entrance to the vagina, a little manipula- tion will cause it to enter the urethra. When the speculum is introduced into the vagina, the points to be noted in connection with the os uteri are;—(i) the small size of the opening; (2) the two rounded and thick lips which bound this aperture. In both the virgin and in women who have borne children it is a transverse cleft, but in the former it is small and its anterior and posterior lips are smooth and rounded, whilst in the latter it is usually larger and its lips are frequently cleft and scarred. Note further that the anterior lip is the thicker and shorter of the two, whilst the posterior lip is the longer. KefLection of Skin.—The anal canal should be slightly filled with tow, and the vulva and anal orifice stitched up.—Incisions—(i) A transverse in- cision should, in the first place, be carried from one ischial tuberosity to the other, in front of the anus. (2) The urogenital fissure and the orifice of the anus should next be closely encircled by incisions, and these joined by a cut along the middle line. (3) Lastly, carry an incision forwards from the second or third piece of the coccyx along the middle line to the cut which surrounds the anus. Four flaps are thus marked out ; the two anterior may be thrown for- wards and laterally, and the two posterior b.ackwards and laterally. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia of the perineum369 FEMALE PERINEUM is now laid bare. In the anal triangle it agrees in every particular with the same portion of fascia in the male. In the anterior or urogenital triangle, however, owing to the difference in the external organs of generation, there is a slight modifica- tion. It presents the same two layers. In the superficial fatty layer, where it covers the labia majora, there are darios fibres similar to those in the scrotum of the male. The deeper layer has the same attachments as in the male, viz. to the anterior lips of the pubic arch, and to the base of the uro- genital diaphragm; but it is not so membranous, and con- sequently does not form so distinct a stratum. The two fascial pouches are also present in the female, and are some- times spoken of as the mdvo-scrotal sacs. Their separation along the middle line is not due to the interposition of a median septum, as in the male, but to the presence of the urogenital fissure. Anal Triangle. Nothing need be added to what has already been written regarding this portion of the perineal space in the male. In both sexes the steps of the dis.section and the parts found are precisely the same {vide p. 345). Urogenital Triangle. Superficial Perineal Vessels and Nerves. — Under this heading are included :— Arleries ^ superficial perineal artery. 1 The transverse perineal artery. [ The posterior labial nerves. Nerves. The long perineal branch of the posterior cutaneous nerve of 1 the thigh. They have precisely the same disposition as the corre- sponding vessels and nerves in the male, with this exception, that they are somewhat smaller, and are distributed to the labium majus, instead of to the scrotum. For a detailed description of these structures, the student may refer to p. 350. Dissection.—The superficial perineal vessels and nerves should now be divided and thrown backwards, and the superficial perineal muscles cleaned. These are three in number, viz. the transversus perinei superficialis, the ischio-cavernosus, and the sphincter vaginte. The two first have a similar position to the corresponding muscles in the )nale ; the sphincter vaginie VOL. 1—24370 ABDOMEN lies upon the side of the vagina close to its orifice. To obtain a good view of these muscles the superficial fascia of the labia should be dissected away. In cleaning the muscles the dissector should look for the small nerve twigs which are given to each by the perineal division of the internal pudendal nerve. Superficial Perineal Muscles.—The iransversus perinei super- ficialis has the same disposition as in the male, but it is rare to find it so well marked in the female. In most subjects its I sell io*cavernosus Sphincter vaginaj Ischio*caverno5us Transver.sus perinei siiperficiales Levator ani GluU'mis maxiinus Sphincter ani externus Fig. 139.—Muscles of the Female Perineum (Peter Thompson). fibres are pale, and it is generally very difficult to define. It is a slender fasciculus which takes origin from the medial surface of the ramus of the ischium, close to the tuberosity, and passes obliquely forwards and medially to its insertion into the central point of the perineum. In the female the central point of the perineum is placed behind the vaginal orifice. The ischio-cavernosus is much smaller than the correspond- ing muscle in the male. It arises from the medial aspect of the ischial tuberosity, and is inserted by a tendinous expansion on the surface of the crus cliloridis.FEMALE PERINEUM 371 The sphincter vagince is the representative of the biilbo- cavernosus of the male. It is a true sphincter muscle, and consists of two halves, which are placed one on each side of the vaginal orifice and vestibule, closely adapted to tlie surfaces of the two halves of the vaginal bulb. Posteriorly the fibres of opposite sides unite behind the vaginal opening, and are attached to the central point of the perineum, some of the fibres intermixing with those of the sphincter ani. Anteriorly the two portions of the muscle become narrower, and, converging tow^ards the middle line, are attached to the sides of the clitoris. In some cases a small fasciculus, on each side, may be observed to reach the dorsum of the clitoris and there gain insertion into a tendinous expansion w'hich lies superficial to the dorsal vein. This fasciculus is comparable with the anterior fibres of the bulbo-cavernosus of the male, which embrace the circumference of the body of the penis. Perineal Triangle.—The dissector should now observe that the three perineal muscles form the sides of a small triangle, the floor of which is constituted by the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. Perineal Body.—It has been already stated that the term “perineum” is confined by the obstetrician to the narrow interval between the frenulum pudendi and the anus. Now that this part has been dissected, it will be seen to consist of an indefinite mass of fibrous and muscular tissue, which occupies the interval betw'een the anal canal and the vagina. This is known as the permeal body. Muscular tissue belonging to the sphincter ani, levatores ani, and sphincter vaginje, together wdth the central point of the perineum, enter into its constitution. Dissection.—The sphincter vaginie should now be carefully raised from the surface of the bulb, and the ischio-cavernosus from the surface of the crus clitoridis. The transversus perinei superlicialis may be removed at the same time. Bulb of the Vestibule.—The bulb of the vestibule is now di.splayed. It consists of two oblong bodies, composed of erectile tissue, placed one on each side of the vestibule and entrance to the vagina. Somewhat narrow in front, they expand as they pass backw'ards, and each is invested by a fibrous capsule derived from the urogenital dia[)hragm, upon the inferior surface of which they rest. Laterally each presents a rounded convex surface w'hich is coated with the sphincter vaginae muscle, whilst each erectile mass rests, medially, uponABDOMEN 372 the wall of the vagina. In front of the urethra, between it and the clitoris, the two halves of the bulb are brought into direct communication with each other by a venous plexus called the pars intermedia^ which, in turn, is continuous with the erectile tissue of the glans clitoridis. To obtain a proper idea of these connections, it is necessary to study specimens which have been specially injected and prepared. The arrangement of erectile tissue in the female corre- sponds, more or less closely, with the condition present in the male. The apparent dissimilarity is due to the presence of the urogenital fissure and orifice of the vagina. Suppose, for a moment, that the latter is obliterated and that the vestibule is closed in the form of a canal which carries the urethra forwards to the extremity of the clitoris. The two halves of the bulb would then be in contact with each other, and its entire surface would be covered by a muscular stratum, after the manner of the bulb and bulbo-cavernosus in the male. Further, the urethra would be surrounded by erectile tissue, and the pars inier??iedia would correspond, to some extent, to that portion of the corpus cavernosum urethrae which, in the male, lies in front of the bulb and becomes continuous with the glans. Dissection.—If the stitches uniting the lips of the pudendal cleft have not been already removed they should now be taken away. The crura clitoridis have been exposed by the removal of the ischio-cavernosus muscles. To obtain a good view of the entire organ, strip the mucous membrane from the body of the clitoris, and clear away the loose tissue which surrounds it. In doing this, however, remember that on its dorsal aspect certain vessels and nerves run forwards to reach the glans, and that suspending it from the front of the pubes there is the suspensory ligament. Clitoris.—The body of the clitoris is a cylindrical mass of erectile tissue called the corpus cavernosum clitoridis., it is homo- logous with the structure that bears the corresponding name in the male. Along the middle line it is partially separated into two lateral halves by an imperfect septum. The body of the clitoris, which is about an inch and a half long, is bent in a downward direction on itself at the lower border of the symphysis pubis. Anteriorly it terminates in a small rounded tubercle, which bears the name of the glans clitoridis. The glans, however, is not structurally continuous with the corpus cavernosum. It is a little mass of erectile tissue continuous with the pars intermedia, and fitting into a slight concavity which is formed for its reception on the extremity of theFEMALE PERINEUM 373 I—24 a corpus cavernosum. Posteriorly, opposite the lower part of the symphysis pubis, the corpus cavernosum separates into two parts, the crura clitoridis which diverge widely from each other. Each crus is attached by its deep surface to the rami of the pubis and ischium, and is covered by the corre- sponding ischio-cavernosus muscle. The clitoris, then, consists of three parts:—(\) a glans continuous with the pars intermedia; (2) a body, and (3) tivo crura attached to the sides of the pubic arch. It has been Central point of perineum Fig. 140.—Dissection of Female Perineum to show the Clitoris and the Bulb of the Vestibule. noted that the pars intermedia corresponds with the corpus cavernosum urethrae in the male. This apparatus in the female, therefore, closely resembles the penis in the male, the chief differences being the diminutive size of the clitoris, and the fact that the glans clitoridis is not perforated by the urethra. Dissection.—Detach the left crus clitoris from the side of the pubic arch and throw it aside. This dissection requires care, because the internal pudendal artery, the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, and the small artery which enters the crus, are very apt to be injured. The internal pudendal vessels and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris will be seen piercing the uro-ABDOMEN 374 genital diaphragm about half an inch below the symphysis pubis, and a little way lateral to the middle line. Urogenital Diaphragm (O.T. Triangular Ligament).—A good view is now obtained of the lower fascia of the urogenital diaphragm. Owing to the greater width of the pubic arch, it is a more extensive membrane than in the male (see Fig. 140). It does not possess the same strength, however, and is not so perfect, seeing that it is pierced by the vaginal canal. In the middle line it is pierced, fully an inch below the symphysis pubis, by the urethra, and immediately below the urethral opening by the wide vagina. Its base is perforated by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, whilst on each side the internal pudendal artery and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris pierce it about half an inch below the symphysis. The dorsal vein of the clitoris passes backwards through an oval opening between its upper border, the so-called trans- verse ligament of the pelvis, and the arcuate ligament of the pubis. As in the male, the urogenital diaphragm consists of the deep transverse muscles of the perineum and the sphincter urethrae membranaceae, enclosed between a superficial and a deep layer of fascia. Between the two fasciae lie portions of the urethra, and the vagina and parts of the internal pudendal vessels and the dorsal nerves of the clitoris. The two fascial layers are fused, as in the male, a short distance below the arcuate ligament of the pubes, where their united margins form the transverse ligament of the pelvis and again, posteriorly, at the base of the diaphragm. Dissection.—-The inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm should be reflected upon one side. Detach it from the margin of the pubic arch and throw it medially. The structures between the two layers may now be examined. Urethra Muliebris.—The female urethra is a short canal, which extends from the neck of the bladder to its orifice at the base of the vestibule. It measures about one and a half inches in length, and has an oblique and slightly curved course from above downwards and forwards. The con- cavity of the curve is directed forwards. So close is its relation to the anterior wall of the vagina, that it may almost be said to be embedded in it. At the present stage of the dissection, the urethral canal is covered by the fibres of the sphincter urethrte muscle.FEMALE PERINEUM 375 1—24 b A leading peculiarity of the female urethra is its great dilatability. Cases are on record in which vesical calculi weighing from two to four ounces have traversed it, and thus escaped from the bladder. It thus happens that in the extraction of foreign substances from the female bladder, it is rarely necessary to have recourse to the knife. M. Transversus Perinei Profundus and M. Sphincter Urethrae Membranaceae (O.T. Compressor Urethrae Muscle).— I'he deep transverse muscle of the perineum is less marked in the female than in the male, and is also less distinctly separable from the sphincter of the membranous part of the urethra. It rises laterally from the margin of the pubic arch, at the junction of the ischial and pubic rami, and terminates medially on the lower part of the posterior wall of the vagina. Its anterior fibres blend with the posterior fibres of the sphincter of the urethra. The sphincter consists of an internal layer of fibres arranged circularly round the urethra, and an external layer which springs from the pubic arch, anterior to the origin of the deep transverse muscle and from the inferior layer of the urogenital diaphragm. As the fibres of this layer approach the medial plane some pass in front of the vagina and urethra, and others are attached to the posterior wall of the vagina. Both the above muscles are sup- plied by twigs from the perineal branch of the pudendal nerve. Glandulse Vestibularis Majores (O.T. Bartholin’s Glands).— These glands are the representatives, in the female, of the bulbo-urethral glands of the male. They are two round or oblong bodies, about the size of a horse-bean, placed one upon each side of the entrance to the vagina immediately behind the rounded end of the bulb, and under cover of the sphincter vaginte. A long duct proceeds from each gland, and opens in the angle between the labium minus and the hymen or carunculae myrtiformes (Fig. 140, p. 373). Internal Pudendal Vessels and the Pudendal Nerve.—The internal pudendal vessels and the pudendal nerve have a similar disposition to the corresponding vessels and nerve in the male (p. 360). If anything, they are somewhat smaller. The student must therefore look for the artery to the bulb, a branch of the internal pudendal, which in this case is given to the bulb of the vagina, and the two terminal branches of the internal pudendal artery, viz. the dorsal artery of the clitoris, and the artery to the corpus cavernosum. The pudendal nerve ends by dividing into the [)crineal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris.ABDOMEN 376 The perineal nerve gives off—(i) the posterior labial branches to the skin covering the labium majus: they correspond with the posterior scrotal nerves in the male; (2) muscular twigs to all the perineal muscles; and (3) a branch to the bulb of the vagina. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris gives a twig to the corpus cavernosum, and runs forwards with the artery of the same name between the crura to reach the dorsum of the clitoris. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves of the Clitoris. — On the dorsum of the clitoris a little dissection will display the dorsal vein occupying the groove in the middle line, with a dorsal artery and nerve lying upon each side of it. The arteries and nerves should be traced forwards to their distribution in the glans. The dorsal vein of the clitoris takes origin in the glans. As it proceeds backwards it receives certain superficial veins, and also tributaries from the corpus cavernosum clitoridis. At the root of the clitoris it passes between the transverse ligament of the pelvis and the arcuate ligament of the pubes, and is continued backwards into the pelvis, to join the plexus of veins on the wall of the vagina in the region of the neck of the bladder. It communicates also with the internal pudendal vein. ABDOMINAL WALL. After the dissection of the perineum is completed, the body is placed upon its back, with blocks under the thorax and pelvis, and the dissectors of the abdomen begin the dissec- tion of the abdominal wall (Fig. 141). External Anatomy.—It is well, however, before proceeding to the actual dissection of the part, that some attention should be paid to the general configuration and bony prominences of the region. If the subject is obese the abdomen presents a smooth, rounded, and protuberant appearance; if, on the other hand, it is spare, the abdominal wall is depressed, and the lower margin of the thorax above, and the pubes, crest of the ilium, and the inguinal ligaments below, stand out in marked relief. In the middle line the student will notice a linear depression, extending downwards towards the symphysis. This corresponds with the linea alba or the interval betweenABDOMINAL WALL 377 the two recti muscles. It is an important line to the surgeon, because here the wall of the abdomen is thin and devoid of blood-vessels. In this line the trocar is intro- duced into the abdomen in the operation of paracentesis abdominis or tapping. In the linear depression, rather nearer the pubes than the ensiform cartilage, is the umbilicus or navel. This is a depressed and puckered cicatrix, the floor of which is raised in the form of a little button-like knob. It results from the closure of an opening, in the abdominal wall of the foetus, through which passed the constituents of the umbilical cord —viz. the umbilical vein, the two allantoic or umbilical arteries, and the stalk of the allantois. In powerful, well-developed subjects the rectus muscle stands out on each side of the middle line, and its lateral margin gives rise to a curved line, the concavity of which is directed medially. This line corresponds to the linea semi- lunaris—i.e. the line along which the aponeurotic tendon of the internal oblique muscle splits to enclose the rectus. The linea semilunaris may, on certain occasions, be selected by the surgeon as the site for incisions through the abdominal wall. The student should now place his finger upon the upper part of the symphysis pubis and carry it laterally, over the pubic crest, to the pubic tubercle; from this he should follow the line of the inguinal ligament (Poupart’s) to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and, havipg identified these parts, he should next endeavour to determine the position of the subcutaneous inguinal ring (O.T. external abdominal). This is easily done in a male subject. Immediately lateral to the tubercle of the os pubis the spermatic cord can be felt as it passes over the inguinal ligament to reach the scrotum. Taking this as a guide, push the loose skin of the scrotum upwards before the finger. The tip of the finger enters the opening, the sharp margins of which can now be felt. The spermatic cord, as it passes downwards into the scrotum, should be taken between the finger and thumb. On pressure being applied the ductus deferens can be easily distinguished at the back of the cord, by the hard whipcord- like feel that it conveys to the fingers. The crest of the ilium, as it proceeds upwards and back- wards from the anterior superior spine, can be easily felt. Indeed, in most cases, it is visible to the eye for a distance378 ABDOMEN of about two and a half inches. At the point where it dis- appears from view a prominent tubercle is developed on its lateral lip. It is here, at the highest point of the iliac crest which can be seen from the front, that the lateral outline of the trunk joins the ilium. As we shall see later on, use is made of this fact in subdividing the abdominal cavity into regions. In females who have borne children the skin over the lower part of the abdomen is wrinkled and scarred. Parts to be dissected.—A dissection of the abdominal wall will display the following parts :— 1. Superficial fascia. 2. Cutaneous vessels and nerves. 3. The external oblique muscle. 4. The internal oblique muscle. 5. The anterior branches of the lower six thoracic nerves and accompany- ing vessels ; the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. 6. The transversus abdominis muscle. 7. The rectus and pyramidalis muscles and the sheath of the rectus. 8. The transversalis fascia. 9. The inferior epigastric and deep circumflex iliac arteries. 10. The superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries. 11. The spermatic cord. 12. The inguinal canal. 13. The extra-peritoneal fat. 14. The parietal peritoneum. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions—(i) Along the middle line of the body from the xiphoid process to the symphysis pubis. The knife should be carried round the navel so as to surround it with a circular incision. (2) From the xiphoid process transversely round the thorax, as far back as the knife can be carried. (3) From the symphysis pubis laterally, along the line of the inguinal ligament, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and then backwards along the crest of the ilium (Fig. 141). The large flap of skin thus mapped out should be carefully raised from the subjacent superficial fascia and turned laterally. If the abdominal wall is flaccid, the dissection may be facilitated by inflating the abdomen. Make an incision through the umbilicus, large enough to admit the nozzle of the bellows or an injection-pipe fixed to a bicycle-pump, and when the walls are quite tense secure the opening with twine, which should previously be sewn round the lips of the incision. Panniculus Adiposus (Superficial Fascia).—The superficial fascia which is now laid bare is seen to present the same appearance, and possess the same characters, as in other localities. Above, it is thin and weak, and is directly con- tinuous with the corresponding fascia over the chest; below, it becomes more strongly marked, and acquires a greater density. Towards the lower part of the abdomen the super- ficial fascia develops special characters; it consists of twoABDOMINAL WALL 379 layers—a fatty superficial stratum called Campers fascia and a deep membranous stratum termed Scarpa's fascia. Media] condyle of femur i-ateral condyle of femur Patella Tibia Head of fibula lateral malleolus Medial malleolus Lateral malleolus Fig. 141. Surface view with incisions and bony points. There is another point, however, in which the superficia Sternal end of clavicle Acromial end of clavicle Head of humerus Nipple Lower end of body of sternum Junction of manubrium with body of sternum Lateral epicondyle Medial epicondyle ' Ant. sup. .spine of ilium Great trochanter Styloid process of radius Styloid process of ulna / Head of radius Symphysis of pubis Lower end of radiusABDOMEN 380 fascia differs somewhat from the same fascia in other parts of the body. It is more elastic, and this elasticity is due to the presence of elastic fibres in its deeper membranous part. Over the lower part of the linea alba the elastic tissue is generally seen collected in the form of a distinct band which, in the region of the symphysis pubis, becomes connected with the penis and its suspensory ligament. A reference to com- parative anatomy gives interest to this fact. In the human subject this elastic band is the rudimentary representative of a continuous and distinct layer of yellow elastic tissue {the abdominal tunic), which is present in the horse and other quadrupeds in which the weight of the viscera is chiefly sustained by the abdominal wall. When the two layers of the superficial fascia are followed downwards, from the front of the abdomen, the fatty layer of Camper passes over the inguinal ligament and becomes directly continuous with the fatty superficial fascia on the front of the thigh. The relations of the fascia of Scarpa are very different. In the region of the pubes it is carried con- tinuously downwards over the spermatic cords, the penis and scrotum, into the perineum, where it becomes continuous with the fascia of Codes. On the lateral side of the spermatic cord, in the region of the groin, it proceeds downwards, and ends immediately distal to the inguinal ligament by blending with the fascia lata of the thigh. These connections of the fascia of Scarpa are so important that it is necessary to undertake a special dissection, in order that they may be demonstrated. As this encroaches somewhat upon the region of the thigh, it must be done in conjunction with the dissector of the lower e.xtremity. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thickness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the middle line of the abdomen. On raising the lower edge of the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the subjacent pearly- looking tendon of the external oblique muscle. Little resistance will be met, as the fascia of Scarpa is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. As the superficial fascia is thus raised from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve will be seen piercing the aponeurosis and entering the deep surface of the superficial fascia a little way above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The fingers can be readily passed downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as the inguinal ligament. Here it will be found that they can force their way no farther. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blending of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata of the thigh. At this level it ceases to exist; it loses its identity by becoming fused with the deep fascia of the thigh along the line of, and immediately distal to, the inguinal ligament.ABDOMINAI, WALL 381 Towards the pubes the finger can be pushed downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa and along the spermatic cord into tlie perineum. No barrier opposes the passage of the finger in this direction. The continuity of the fascia of Scarpa and the fascia of Colles is thus demonstrated. If the dissector now recalls the fact that in the urethral triangle of the perineum the fascia of Colles is attached laterally to the margins of the pubic arch, and posteriorly to the base of the urogenital diaphragm, whilst above the level of the pubic crests it is continuous with the fascia of Scarpa on the front of the abdominal wall, he will have little difficulty in understanding the course which urine takes when extrava- sated from a rupture of the urethra in front of the urogenital diaphragm. The effused fluid is directed upwards into the scrotum over the penis, and along the spermatic cords to the front of the abdomen. From the abdomen it cannot pass downwards to the front of the thighs, owing to the attachment of Scarpa’s fascia to the fascia lata. Unless vent be given to it by early and free incisions, it will continue to ascend over the abdomen. Cutaneous Nerves.—A dissection must now be made of the cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. These are arranged on the same plan as the cutaneous nerves of the thorax. We have therefore to look for an anterior and a lateral series. .Anterior series. Lateral series. f I. Anterior cutaneous nerves. J 2. Anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric I nerve. \ 3. The ilio-inguinal nerve. [ I. Lateral cutaneous nerves. -{ 2. Lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve. I, 3. Lateral cutaneous branch of ilio-hypogastric nerve. The anterior cuta?ieous nerves are the small terminal twigs of the lower five or six thoracic nerves. They pierce the aponeurotic sheath of the rectus muscle at variable points, some close to the median line and others a little distance from it. After entering the superficial fascia they run for a short distance laterally. To find these nerves, the best plan to adopt is to divide the superficial fascia along the middle line, and reflect it cautiously laterally. The small arteries which accompany the nerves serve as guides. The anterior cutaneous branch of the ilio-hypogastric lies in series with the preceding. In the dissection of the superficial fascia it has been seen piercing the aponeurosisABDOMEN 382 of the external oblique immediately above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The ilio-inguimil 7ierve comes out through the subcutaneous Internal obliiiue Anlerior cutaneous branch of ilio- hypogastric Aponeurosis of external oblique, renected Cremaster I'alx apon* eurotica inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon) Reflex ligament of Colles Spermatic cord A poneurosis of external oblique muscle Inlcrcrural filnes Subcniaiicou> inguinal ring (O/r. external abdominal) - Pecloralis major Serratus anterior External oblique thrown forwards Obliquus externus Sheath of rectus abdominis Anterior cutaneous nerve Fig. 142.—Dissection of Anterior Wall of tlie Abdomen, 'rhe obliciuus externus has been reflected on the right side. inguinal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and the medial aspect of the thigh. 'I’he lateral cutaneous nerves are branches of the six lower thoracic nerves. They become superficial between theABDOMINAL WALL digitations of the external oblique muscle, and then each divides into an anterior and posterior division. The posterior divisions are small, and are directed backwards over the latis- simus dorsi. The anterior divisions run forward, and a careful dissector may trace them as far as the lateral margin of the rectus abdominis. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve differs from the other members of the series in not dividing into an anterior and a posterior branch, and in being destined for the supply of the integument over the glutmal region. It pierces the external oblique muscle, in a line with the other lateral nerves, and is then directed downwards over the crest of the ilium. It crosses the iliac crest from one to two inches behind the anterior superior spine. The late?-al branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve is also dis- tributed to the skin of the glutfeal region. It pierces the external oblique immediately above the iliac crest, which it usually crosses opposite the tubercle which projects from the lateral lip of the crest, about two and a half inches behind the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Arterise Cutanese (Cutaneous Arteries). — Cutaneous arteries are found accompanying the cutaneous nerves. Those which are associated with the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches of the aortic intercostal arteides^ whilst those in relation to the anterior cutaneous nerves are derived from the superior and inferior epigastric arteries. In addition to these, three small branches of the femoral artery ramify in the superficial fascia of the groin. These are— 1. The superficial external puclemlal. 2. The superficial epigastric. 3. The superficial circumflex iliac. They take origin in the thigh, a short distance distal to the inguinal ligament, and, piercing the fascia lata, diverge from each other in the superficial fascia. The superficial external pudendal is directed medially over the spermatic cord. It gives branches to the skin of the scrotum and under surface of the penis. The superficial circumflex iliac proceeds laterally and upwards along the line of the inguinal ligament (Poupart’s), and ends in the skin in the neighbourhood of the anterior superior spine of the ilium.3^4 ABDOMEN The superficial epigastric takes a vertical course upwards, and, crossing the inguinal ligament, ramifies in the superficial fascia over the lower part of the abdomen. Its branches extend as high as the level of the umbilicus. The small veins which accompany these arteries open into the large saphenous vein. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall.—The abdominal wall is formed anteriorly and laterally by five pq.irs of muscles, and by the aponeuroses which constitute their tendons. Anteriorly are the two recti muscles and the two pyramidales muscles. 'Fhe recti are placed parallel to the middle line, and extend in a vertical direction from the pubic bones to the lower margin of the thorax. On each side three fleshy and apon- eurotic strata are met with. From the surface towards the abdominal cavity they are-—(i) the external oblique muscle; (2) the internal oblique muscle ; (3) the transversus abdominis muscle. The direction taken by the muscular fibres which compose each of these layers is different. The external oblique corresponds in this respect with the external inter- costal muscles; the fibres proceed obliquely downwards and forwards. Again, the internal oblique resembles the internal intercostal muscles in the direction of its fibres; they are directed upwards and forwards, and thus the fibres of the two oblique muscles cross each other like the limbs of the letter X. Lastly, the fibres composing the transversus abdominis muscle pursue a horizontal or transverse course. This difference of direction in the fibres which compose these three strata is a source of strength to the fleshy part of the abdominal wall, which, consequently, offers a strong barrier to the protrusion of any of the abdominal contents. The two oblique muscles and the transversus are prolonged to the middle line in the form of aponeuroses. The union of these with the corresponding aponeuroses of the opposite side forms the linea alba—a strong band which extends, in the median line, from the symphysis pubis to the xiphoid process. Dissection.—Remove the superficial fascia from the front of the abdomen. This will expose the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. Towards the thorax this aponeurosis is very thin, and is liable to injury, unless the dissection be performed with care. Proceed cautiously also at the lower part of the abdomen, above the medial end of the inguinal ligament. Here the aponeurosis is pierced in the male by the spermatic cord. The lips of the oiiening thus formed are prolonged downwards upon the cord in theABDOMINAL WALL 385 form of a thin membrane called the external spermatic fascia. In defining this the blade of the knife must not be used. Work entirely with the handle. The thin layer of deep fascia which is spread over the muscular part of the external oblique muscle must also be removed. In doing this it is not necessary to carry the knife in the direction of the fleshy fasciculi. Indeed, the muscle can best be cleaned by carrying the knife at right angles to the general direction of the fibres. In front, the deep fascia will be seen to blend with the aponeurosis of the muscle, along the line of junction between the tendinous and fleshy fibres. The slips of origin of the external oblique muscle from the eight lower ribs must each be care- fully defined. M. Obliquus Abdominis Extemus (Ex- ternal Oblique). — The external oblique muscle arises by eight pointed processes or digitations from the outer surfaces and lower borders of the eight lower ribs (Fig. 142). Of these, the tipper three interdigitate with the digitations of the serratus anterior, and the latissimus dorsi interdigitates with the lower three. From this origin the fibres proceed downwards and forwards with vary- ing degrees of obliquity. The posterior fibres have a nearly vertical direction, and are inserted into the anterior half of the lateral lip of the crest of the ilium. The superior fibres are almost horizontal, and the intermediate fibres are directed obliquely downwards and fonvards, and all end in a strong aponeurosis called the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Superiorly the aponeurosis of the external oblique is very thin, and is carried forwards to be attached to the xiphoid process. It is from this part that the pectoralis major derives fibres of origin. Inferiorly the aponeurosis is folded upon itself to form the inguinal ligament which is attached laterally and superiorly to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and medially and inferiorly to the tubercle of the pubis. Betweeti the upper and lotver attachtnents the aponeurosis lies in front of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba and into the front of the os pubis. In connection with this aponeurosis note that it is broadest VOL. I—25 B Fig. 143.—Crest of the Ilium as seen from above (semi- diagrammatic), with Attachments of Muscles mapped out.ABDOMEN 386 and strongest inferiorly, that it is narrowest about the level of the umbilicus, and that it widens somewhat again towards the ribs. Superiorly it is so thin that the fibres of the rectus muscle shine through it. Annulus Inguinalis Subcutaneus (O.T. External Abdominal Eing) (Figs. 144 and 145).—In the male, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced, immediately above the pubes, by the spermatic cord j in the female it is pierced, at the same point and in the same manner, by the round ligament of the External spermatic fascia Large saphenous vein Aponeurosis of the external oblique Inguinal ligament (Poupart’.s) Intercrural fibres Cord covered by cremasteric fascia Fascia of Scarpa Subcutaneous inguinal ring Elastic tissue passing down to suspensory ligament of the penis [Fig. 144.—Dissection of the Subcutaneous Inguinal Ring and the parts in its vicinity. uterus. The aperture which is thus formed receives the name of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. At the present stage of the dissection this opening is not visible, because a thin fascial covering is carried downwards from its lips upon the spermatic cord or on the round ligament of the uterus. This is called the exter7ial spermatic or the mtercrural fascia. If the cord be raised and rendered tense, this covering will be observed to invest it completely, and to be somewhat funnel-shaped— wide above, but closing upon the cord as it is traced down- wards. With the point of the knife divide the external spermaticABDOMINAL WALL 387 I—25 a fascia round the cord, and then, with the handle, define the margins of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. When this is done, the dissector will observe that the term “ ring,” as applied to this opening, is calculated to convey to the mind an errone- ous impression. It is not circular, but triangular, in shape. The direction of the opening is very oblique, the base of the Sheath of rectus Aponeurosis of external oblique Intercrural fibres Inguinal ligament (Poupart’s) Subcutaneous inguinal ring Lig. inguinale reflexum Lig.lacunare (Gimbernat’s) Fig. 145.—Dissection to show the connections of the lower part of the Aponeurosis of the External Oblique Muscle. triangle being formed by the crest of the pubes, whilst the apex is directed laterally and slightly upwards. The subcutaneous inguinal ring, therefore, is merely a small gap or interval left between that portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which forms the inguinal ligament, and that portion which is inserted into the front of the pubic bone. The margins of the aperture are termed the pillars or crura of the ring. The medial or supeiior crus is flat and broad, and is attached to the symphysis pubis. Some of its fibres cross the middle line, decussate with the388 ABDOMEN corresponding fibres of the other side, and are inserted into the front of the opposite pubic bone. The lateral or inferior crus is simply the medial end of the inguinal ligament. It is, therefore, thick and strong, and is fixed to the pubic tubercle. The spermatic cord, as it issues from the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring, rests upon the lateral crus. The size of the subcutaneous inguinal ring is very variable. In the male the average length may be said to be one inch, and the breadth about half an inch. In the female it is much smaller, and the round ligament of the uterus which passes through it ends in the superficial fascia of the groin. On a close inspection of the lower part of the external abdominal aponeurosis, the student will observe a number of cross fibres arching over its surface. These are called the fibrae intercrurales, and in some cases they are very strongly marked. They begin at the inguinal ligament, close to the iliac spine, and curve upwards and medially, upon the aponeurosis, above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The function of these fibres is very evident, and the term “ inter- crural" is derived from the part which they play. They bind together the two crura of the ring, and prevent their further separation or divarication. There is a direct con- tinuity between the intercrural fibres and the external spermatic fascia which clothes the cord, and consequently, as already stated, the term “ intercrural ” is frequently applied to the latter. Eeflection of the Obliquus Externus.—Between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the posterior border of the external oblique muscle is free, and as this border will be examined when the body is placed on its face it must not be disturbed at present. Begin by detaching the upper six serrations of the muscle from the ril>s ; from the interval between the sixth and seventh serrations carry an incision downwards, through the fibres of the muscle, to the posterior border of the tubercle on the lateral lip of the iliac crest. Raise the anterior portion of the muscle from the surface of the subjacent internal oblique and turn it medially, dividing the fleshy fibres inserted into the iliac crest close to the bone. Next divide the aponeurosis horizontally, in a line leading from the anterior superior spine to the lateral border of the rectus. The greater part of the muscular and aponeurotic portion of the external oblicpie can now be thrown medially. The dissector must proceed with care on approaching the lateral border of the rectus, because a little beyond this the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique fuses with the deep surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Define the line of union, and notice that it does not extend beyond the lower margin of the thorax. Above this the rectus is simply covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; its outer margin in this locality is bare, and the hand can be freely passed between it and the costal cartilages.ABDOMINAL WALL 389 1—25 h On the left side of the body the parts, below the horizontal line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the lateral border of the rectus, along which the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle has been divided, should be preserved intact for the special study of the structures associated with inguinal hernia. On the right side of the body divide the lower part of the aponeurosis along the lateral border of the rectus to the pubes. This incision should pass to the medial side of the medial crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring, so that this opening may be preserved. The triangular flap of aponeurosis may now be thrown downwards and laterally. By this proceeding the inguinal ligament, the entire extent of the internal oblique muscle, and the cremaster muscle are displayed for study. Ligamentum Inguinale (O.T. Poupart’s Ligament).—The inguinal ligament is merely the thickened lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique folded backwards upon itself. It thus presents a rounded surface towards the thigh and a grooved surface towards the abdominal cavity. The manner in which it is attached by its lateral and medial extremities deserves the close study of the dissector. Laterally it is fixed to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; tnedially it has a double attachment—viz. (i) to the pubic tubercle, which may be considered as its attachment proper; (2) through the medium of the lacunar ligament {Gimbertiat's') to the pecten pubis (O.T. ilio-pectineal line). The inguinal ligament does not pursue a straight course between its iliac and pubic attachments. It describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed downwards and laterally towards the thigh. By its inferior border it gives attachment to the fascia lata. When this is divided, the inguinal ligament at once loses its curved direction. Ligamentum Lacunare (O.T. Gimbernat’s Ligament) (Fig. 145).—This is a triangular process of aponeurotic fascia. Raise the spermatic cord, place the finger behind the medial end of the inguinal ligament, and press downwards. The structure upon which the finger rests is the ligament in question, and the student should note that at this point it offers a barrier to the passage of the finger into the thigh. With the handle of the knife its shape and connections can be easily defined. Its a.pex is fixed to the pubic tubercle; by otie margin it is attached to the medial part of the inguinal ligament; by its other margin it is inserted for the distance of an inch into the pecten pubis. Its base is sharp, crescentic, and free, and is directed laterally towards the femoral sheath. The dissector should thoroughly realise that the lacunar ligament is not an independent structure.ABDOMEN 39° If. is merely the medial part of the folded-back margin of the inguinal ligament which, in the vicinity of the pubic tubercle, obtains an attachment to bone. The lacunar ligament occupies an oblique plane, its lower or femoral surface looking distally and slightly forwards and laterally, whilst its upper or abdominal surface looks upwards and slightly backwards and medially. It is of importance that the student should note the precise relation which this ligament bears to the spermatic cord. Taken in conjunction with the inguinal ligament and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, it forms a groove in which the cord lies. Ligamentum Inguinale Eeflexum (O.T. Triangular Fascia) (Fig. 145). — The lig. inguinale reflexum is a small triangular piece of fascia which springs from the crest of the pubic bone and the medial end of the pecten pubis. It passes upwards and medially, under cover of the superior crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring, and passes into the linea alba. If the fibres which compose it are followed through the linea alba, they will be found to be continuous with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side. It must, therefore, be considered as an additional insertion of this muscle. It is, frequently, so poorly developed that its true relations and connections are demonstrated with difficulty, if indeed they are capable of demonstration at all. Dissection.—The internal oblique muscle should now be cleaned. Towards its lower part it will be seen to be pierced by certain nerves, and these must be preserved. Close to the iliac crest the lateral branches of the ilio-hypogastric and last thoracic nerves will be noticed emerging from the midst of its fleshy fibres, whilst anteriorly it is pierced by the anterior branch of the ilio-hypogastric and by the tlio-inguinal nerve. The former of these appears near the anterior superior iliac spine, and then proceeds medially under cover of the external oblique aponeurosis, which it soon pierces. The ilio-inguinal nerve will be found perforating the internal oblique a short distance medial to the hypogastric nerve and at a lower level. It becomes superficial by passing through the subcutaneous inguinal ring. Care must be taken in defining the lower margin of the muscle to preserve its relations to the spermatic cord, and not to injure the muscular fasciculi which it gives to the cremaster muscle. M. Obliquus Abdominis Internus (Internal Oblique) (Fig. 142).—The internal oblique muscle arises—(i) from the lateral half of the abdominal grooved surface of the inguinal ligament; (2) from the intermediate lip of the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest; (3) from the lumbar fascia.391 ABDOMINAL WALL From these origins the muscular fibres radiate, but the general direction is from below upwards and medially. The posterior fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower borders of the cartilages of the lower four ribs. These fibres occupy the same plane as the internal intercostal muscles—indeed, they will be observed to be directly continuous with the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles of the two lower spaces. The loivesi fibres, those springing from the inguinal ligament, arch downwards and medially,' and join with the lowest fibres Fascia of Scarpa Suspensory ligament penis Cord covered by sper- matic fascia Internal oblique Inguinal ligament Falx aponeur- otica inguinalis Cord covered by cremaster Subcutaneous inguinal ring Aponeurosis of internal oblique Reflex inguinal ligament Fig. 146.—Dissection of the Inguinal Region. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is ttirnecl down. of the transversalis in a flat tendon, called the falx inguiualis or conjoined te?idon, which is inserted into the pubic crest, and into the pecten pubis, behind the lacunar ligament and the reflex inguinal ligament, for fully half an inch of its extent (Fig.s. T42 and 146). The interfuediate fibres proceed upwards and medially, and end in a strong aponeurosis, which extends from the lower margin of the thorax to the pubis. By this aponeurosis they gain insertion into the lower borders of the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs and the xiphoid process, and into the linea alba throughout its entire length. The manner in which the aponeurosis reaches the middle line requires special description. I —2r, eABDOMEN 392 At the lateral margin of the rectus muscle the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splits into two layers—a superficial and a deep. The superficial aponeurotic layer passes in front of the rectus, and has already been seen to fuse with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The deep layer is carried medially behind the rectus, and becomes incorporated with the subjacent aponeurosis of the transverse muscle. But this arrangement does not hold good lower down than a point about midway between the umbilicus and the. pubes. Below this point the aponeurosis does not split, but passes entirely in front of the rectus to join the apo- neurosis of the external oblique. It is important to mark exactly the rela- tion which the lower part of the muscle bears to the spermatic cord. At first the cord lies behind the fleshy fibres, but it soon emerges, clothed by the cremaster muscle, and, as it is continued downwards and medi- ally to the subcutaneous inguinal ring, it lies in front of the falx apo- neurotica inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon). Especially note the position of the falx inguinalis in relation to the subcutaneous inguinal ring. It lies immediately behind it, and gives strength to this otherwise weak point in the abdominal parietes. M. Cremaster. ■— This muscle supports the testis and spermatic cord, and is consequently peculiar to the male. It arises from the medial part of the inguinal ligament, and also derives fibres from the lower border of the internal oblique (rarely from the lower border of the transversus abdominis muscle). The fleshy fibres descend upon the lateral and anterior aspects of the cord in the form of loops, the con- cavities of which are directed upwards. The depth to which Fig. 147.—Diagram to illustrate the relation of the lower border of the Internal Oblique Muscle to the Cord, the Falx Inguinalis, and the Inguinal Canal. O.I. Internal oblique muscle. C.T. Falx Inguinalis. The position of the subcutaneous inguinal ring is indicated by a dotted outline.393 ABDOMINAL WALL these loops descend varies. Some reach the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, and the scrotum should now be opened up, on the right side, in order that they may be traced downwards to this point; the majority of the fibres, however, do not reach so far down, some going no farther than the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring. Upon the posterior aspect of the cord the loops are directed upwards, and some, reaching the os pubis, obtain a tendinous insertion into its tubercle and crest. It will be noticed that the cremasteric fleshy loops do not form a complete investment for the cord and testis. The intervals between the fasciculi are occupied by areolar tissue, and this combination of muscular and areolar tissue is some- times termed the cremasteric fascia. Reflection of Internal Oblique.—On the right side of the body the entire muscle may be reflected, but on the left side preserve the lower portion of it [i.e. that part which is still covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique) in situ. Begin below by dividing the muscular fibres along the crest of the ilium. The depth to which the knife should be carried is indicated by the dense areolar tissue which lie^between the internal oblique and the subjacent transverse muscle. An ascending branch from the deep circumflex iliac artery will also serve as a guide. This vessel emerges from the fibres of the transverse muscle, close to the fore-part of the iliac crest, and is then directed upwards upon its surface. Although this vessel has not attained the dignity of a name, it is a very constant branch. On the right side the fibres springing from the inguinal ligament should also be severed, but on the left side carry the knife horizontally, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the lateral margin of the rectus. Now turn to the upper part of the muscle, and make an incision through it along the lower margin of the thorax, from the lateral border of the rectus to the last rib. Lastly, carry the knife downwards, from the tip of the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The muscle freed in this manner can be thrown medially towards the lateral border of the rectus. In doing this the dissector must proceed with caution, because he has reached the plane of the main trunks of the nerves of the abdominal wall and the arteries which accompany them. These pass medially between the internal oblique and transverse muscle, and, as the former muscle is raised, they are apt to adhere to its deep surface and be cut. In all probability the student will experience considerable difficulty in separating the lowest part of the internal oblique from the corresponding portion of the transversus abdominis. At this level these two muscles are always closely connected, and in .some cases they may be even found to be partially blended. The cremaster nmscle should also be reflected from the spermatic cord. This can best be done by making a longitudinal incision along it. Entering the deep surface of the cremaster is a small branch of the inferior epigastric artery and the external spermatic nerve (a branch of the genitofemoral). These con.stitute its va.scular and nervous supply, and must, if possible, be secured. Now clean the transversus abdominis muscle, and dissect out the vessels and nerves which lie upon it.ABDOMEN 394 Nerves of the Abdominal Wall.—Running forwards upon the transversus abdominis muscle, the dissector will find the following nerves :— 1. The anterior branches of the lower seven thoracic nerves. 2. The ilio-hypogastric nerve. \From the anterior branch of the first 3. The ilio-inguinal nerve. / lumbar nerve. The seven lower thoracic nerves enter the abdominal wall at the margin of the costal arch, where they insinuate themselves between the internal oblique and the transversus abdominis muscle. Then they run to the lateral border of the rectus muscle, where they disappear by piercing and passing within the sheath of the muscle. In a future dissection they will be observed sinking into the substance of the rectus, supplying it with twigs, and then turning forwards to pierce the sheath a second time. They end on the front of the abdomen as the anterior cutaneous nerves. Midway between the spine and the linea alba they give off the lateral cutaneous branches. They likewise supply offsets to the transversus abdominis and two oblique muscles. Minute arteries accompany these nerves. The last thoracic nerve also supplies the oblique and transverse muscles, and in addition it gives a branch to the pyramidalis muscle. Its lateral or iliac b?-anch, however, goes to the skin of the buttock. The ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal are the two lowest nerves of the series. They are directed forwards between the internal oblique and the transversus close to the crest of the ilium. The ilio-hypogastric is the higher of the two. It gives off an iliac or lateral branch, which pierces the two oblique muscles and then crosses the crest of the ilium to reach the skin of the glutmal region. The anterior portion of the nerve perforates the internal oblique, a short distance in front of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and then runs forwards towards the linea alba. It does not enter the sheath of the rectus, but becomes superficial by piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique immediately above the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The ilio-inguinal ne^-ve gives off no lateral branch. It pierces the internal oblique, to which it gives branches, a short distance above the inguinal ligament, and it becomes superficial by passing through the subcutaneous inguinal ring.ABDOMINAI. WALL 395 M. Transversus Abdominis (O.T. Transversalis Muscle). —This is the deepest of the three muscular strata which enter into the formation of the wall of the abdomen. It has a threefold origin — viz. from the pelvis, from the vertebral column, and from the costal cartilages. By its pelvic origin it is attached to the lateral third of the inguinal ligament and to the anterior two-thirds of the medial lip of the crest of the ilium; by its costal origin it arises from the inner surfaces of the costal cartilages of the lower six ribs, by a series of slips or digitations which interdigitate with the slips of origin of Psoas magnus Quadratus lumborum Sacrospinalis F'ascia transversalis External oblique Internal oblique Transversus abdominis Latissimus dorsi Serratiis post. inf. Fig. 148.—Lumbar fascia and sheath of Rectus abdominis. The dotted line represents the Peritoneum. the diaphragm ; by its vertebral origin it is attached, through the medium of the lumbar fascia, to the spinous processes, and the tips and roots of the transverse processes, of the lumbar vertebrre. In point of fact, the lumbar fascia constitutes the posterior aponeurosis of this muscle. But the manner in which this fascia is attached to the vertebrre requires further explanation. As it approaches the spine it splits into three layers or lamellae; of these the posterior lamella is attached to the tips of the spinous processes, the anterior la7nella to the roots of the transverse processes, and the intermediate latnella to the tips and adjacent sides of the transverse processes. Two aponeurotic compartments are thus formed.396 ABDOMEN the posterior of which is occupied by the sacrospinalis (O.T. erector spinas), whilst in the anterior is placed the Superior epigastric Thoracic entering sheath of rectus Lig. reflexuni abdominis Sheath of External Internal oblique Hypogastric Thoracic nerve Transversus abdominis Inferior Linea semilunaris Fascia trans* versalis Internal oblique .Rectus ab- dominis (cut) Falx inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon) Spermatic cord Fig. 149.—Deep dissection of the Anterior WaW of the Abdomen. On the left side the external oblique and the internal oblique have for the most part been removed, the sheath of the rectus opened, and the greater part of the contained muscle removed. On the ri^/zt side the external oblique, the upper part of the internal oblique, and the upper part of the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus have been removed. quadratus lumborum. These are points which cannot be demonstrated in this dissection, but a reference to Fig. 148 will help the student to understand the arrangement.397 ABDOMINAL WALL Anteriorly the fibres of the transversus abdominis muscle end in a strong aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba, the pubic crest, and the ilio-pectineal line. Towards this aponeurosis the fleshy fibres for the most part run in a transverse direction. The lower fibres, however, take a curved course downwards and medially, so that the muscle presents an arched lower margin. The dissector has already seen that the lowest portions of the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and the transverse muscles blend to form the falx mguinalis or conjohied tendim. It is through the medium of this tendon that the transversus abdominis gains its insertion into the pubic crest and into the pecten pubis. The aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis constitutes the greater portion of the falx inguinalis—indeed, whereas the internal oblique aponeurosis has an attachment to the pecten pubis of little more than half an inch, the aponeurosis of the transversalis is fixed to fully an inch of this crest. Above the level of the falx inguinalis the aponeurosis of the transversus is inserted into the linea alba, but in passing medially to this insertion it presents two different relations to the rectus muscle. Down to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes it passes behind the rectus, and blends with the posterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique. Below this point it passes in fro?it of the rectus, and blends with the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and external oblique. Dissection.—The sheath of each rectus should now he opened by a vertical incision along the middle line of the muscle. The divided anterior lamella should then be carefully raised from the surface of the muscle and turned laterally and medially. At the linea: transversae this can only be done with difficulty, so close is the connection between the sheath and the tendinous intersections of the muscle. Contents of the Sheath of the Rectus.—Within the rectal sheath we find the following structures:— 1. The rectus muscle. 2. The pyramidalis muscle. 3. The terminal portions of the anterior branches of the seven lower thoracic nerves. 4. The inferior epigastric artery. 5. The superior epigastric artery. In cleaning the rectus keep in mind the thoracic nerves. These will now be seen to enter the sheath and sink into the398 ABDOMEN rectus. After supplying it with twigs, they come forward from its substance as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. M. Rectus Abdominis (Rectus Muscle). — This is a broad band of muscular fibres which stretches between the thorax and the pubes, on each side of the linea alba. Inferiorly it arises by two heads; of these, the lateral and larger is attached to the pubic crest, whilst the medial and smaller is fixed to the ligaments in front of the symphysis pubis (Fig. 74, p. 200). Towards the thorax the muscle widens and becomes thinner, and its insertion is effected by three large slips into the anterior aspect of the costal cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The rectus muscle is broken up into portions by irregular tendinous intersections—-the inscriptiones tendmecc or linecB trans- verscB. These are usually three in number, and are placed, one at the level of the umbilicus, another opposite the xiphoid process, and a third midway between. A fourth intersection is sometimes found below the umbilicus. These tendinous intersections are closely adherent to the sheath of the rectus in front, they have no attachment to the sheath behind, a fact which can be demonstrated by raising the muscle. M. Pyramidalis.—This is a small triangular muscle— not always present—which springs from the front of the pubes and the ligaments of the symphysis, and is inserted into the linea alba. It lies anterior to the lower part of the rectus, and is supposed to act as a tensor of the linea alba. The nerve of supply to the pyramidalis comes from the last thoracic nerve. To bring it into view the muscle must be carefully detached from the linea alba and turned downwards towards the pubes. The nerve will be exposed entering its deep surface. Vagina Recti Abdominis (Sheath of the Rectus).—The dissector is now in a position to study the manner in which the sheath of the rectus is formed. An examination of the relations which the aponeuroses of the three flat muscles of the abdomen bear to the rectus will show that the sheath is incomplete, in so far as the rectus is concerned. It is deficient poste7-iorly, both above and below. From the lower margin of the thorax to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes it encloses the rectus upon all sides. Here the a7iterior wall or la77iella is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique fused with the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, whilst theABDOMINAL WALL 399 posterior wall or lamella is formed by the fusion of the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique with the aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis (Fig. 148). Superiorly, the rectus muscle rests directly upon the costal cartilages, and the sheath is merely represented by the apo- neurosis of the external oblique, which covers the muscle anteriorly. Inferiorly, the posterior wall of the sheath is also absent, and the rectus rests on the transversalis fascia. Here, however, the anterior wall is formed by a blending of all three aponeuroses (Fig. 150). The lower free margin of the posterior lamella of the sheath can be easily defined by raising the rectus and working with the handle of the knife. It frequently presents a sharp lunated edge, the concavity of which is directed downwards to the pubes. It is called the linea semicircularis (O.T. semihmar fold of Douglas). The inferior epigastric artery will be External oblique Internal oblique Transversus abdominis Fascia transversalis Fig. 150.—Transverse section through the Abdominal Wall a short distance above the Pubes. observed to enter the sheath by passing upwards in front of this free border (Fig. 149). The linea semicircularis of Douglas is often rendered in- distinct by the presence of scattered tendinous bundles crossing behind the lower part of the rectus. Linea Alba.—The linea alba can now be studied to the best advantage. It is a dense fibrous cord or band which extends perpendicularly between the xiphoid process and the symphysis pubis. It is formed by the union and decussa- tion of the fibres composing the aponeuroses of the two oblique muscles and the transverse muscles of opposite sides. Above the umbilicus it is broad and band-like; whilst below this point it becomes narrow and linear. A close examination will show that it is pierced by several small round openings, for the transmission of blood-vessels, and from some of these the dissector may even observe minute fatty masses protruding. A little below its middle is the umbilicus, but the foramen, of which this is the remains, is now completely closed;400 ABDOMEN indeed, in the adult the linea alba is stronger at this point than elsewhere. Fascia Transversalis.—This is a thin layer of fascia which is spread out upon the deep surface of the transversus abdominis muscle. The fascia of one side is directly continuous with the fascia of the opposite side, and forms a part of an ex- M. obi. int. abdom. Ant. sup. spine of ilium triangular fascia) of pubis 'palx inguinalis (O.T conjoined‘tendon) Fig. 151.—Deep dissection of the Inguinal Region. The internal oblique has been reflected to show the whole length of the inguinal canal, and the cord enclosed within the infundibuliforni fascia is seen cut across. tensive fascial stratum which lines the entire abdominal wall, and is placed between the abdominal muscles and their aponeuroses on the one hand, and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue on the other. Traced upwards the fascia transversalis becomes thin and, at the margin of the thorax, it is directly continuous with the fascia which lines the lower surface of the diaphragm. TowardsABDOMINAL WAIJ. 40 r the inguinal region it plays an important part as a constituent of the abdominal wall. In the present state of the dissection (on the right side of the body), a small gap or interval is seen to exist between the lower arched border of the transverse muscle and the inguinal ligament. The membrane which fills up this interval is the transversalis fascia. At no part of the abdominal wall is the fascia stronger than here, and this accession of strength is obviously for the purpose of com- pensating for the deficiency in the transverse muscle, which, at this point, does not descend so low as the inguinal liga- ment. In this interval the transversalis fascia has an im- portant relation to the spermatic cord. It, the fascia, is pierced by the cord, but as yet no opening is visible. Take hold of the cord and draw it downwards and medially. The margins of the aperture through which it passes will be observed to be prolonged downwards upon the cord in a funnel-shaped manner, so as to invest it upon all sides with a tube of fascia. This investment, which is thus seen to come directly from the fascia transversalis, is called the infundibuli- form or internal spermatic fascia. Dissection. — It must now become the object of the dissector to demonstrate the more important attachments of this fascia. He must, therefore, divide the fibres of the transverse muscle along the lateral part of the inguinal ligament and along the crest of the ilium, and, raising the muscle from the subjacent fascia, throw it upwards. It is not necessary to reflect the entire muscle. Attachments of the Fascia Transversalis.—When the fascia is cleaned, with the handle of the scalpel, it will be seen to be attached laterally to the medial lip of the iliac crest. Along the line of this attachment, which is by no means firm, it becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca—that portion of the same fa.scial stratum which covers the iliacus and psoas muscles in the iliac fossa. Close to the crest of the ilium the fascia transversalis is pierced first by the ascending branch and then by the terminal branches of the deep circumflex iliac artery. Anteriorly., in the inguinal region, its connections are more complicated, and must be studied at three different points —(i) between the anterior superior iliac spine and the femoral artery, where it will be seen to be attached to the inguinal ligament; along this line also it becomes continuous with the fascia iliaca; (2) opposite the femoral vessels, where it is VOL. I—2(5ABDOMEN 402 carried distally into the thigh behind the inguinal ligament, to form the anterior part of the femoral sheath {vide p. 182); (3) medial to the femoral vessels, where it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line or pecten of the superior ramus of the pubis behind the falx inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon), with which it is partially blended. Annulus Inguinalis Abdominalis (Abdominal Inguinal Ring). —It has been noted that the transversalis fascia is pierced by the spermatic cord. The opening through which it passes is called the abdoviinal inguinal ring (O.T. internal abdominal ring). This opening can only be defined from the front by an artificial dissection—viz. by dividing the infundibuliform fascia around the cord and pushing it upwards with the handle of the knife. The ring thus defined lies about half an inch above the inguinal ligament, at a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Through the opening the dissector can see the extra-peritoneal fat upon which the transversalis fascia rests, and, just medial to the opening, he will notice the inferior epigastric artery, pursuing its oblique course upwards and medially, and shining through the fascia. If the handle of the knife be now introduced into the ring and carried laterally between the fascia and extra-peritoneal fat, the attachments of the fascia to the inguinal ligament and to the iliac crest can be very clearly shown. Canalis Inguinalis (Inguinal Canal).—The dissector has observed that the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pierce the abdominal wall above the inguinal ligament. The passage which is formed for their transmission receives the name of the mguinal canal. Now, as this canal is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and as it is in connection with it that inguinal hernia occuns, the student will understand how necessary it is that he should examine it carefully from all points of view. The inguinal canal is a narrow channel of about one inch and a half in length. It begins at the abdominal inguinal ring, which may be spoken of as its inlet, and ends at the- subcutaneous inguinal ring, which constitutes its outlet. It is, consequently, very oblique, having a direction almost directly mcdialward.s, with a slight inclination downwards and for- wards. So much for its length and direction ; its floor, its anterior wall, and its posterior wall have still to be examined.ABDOMINAL WAT,L 403 The floor is formed, in tlie first part of the canal, by the upper grooved surface of the inguinal ligament. Towards the outlet, however, the floor becomes broader and more definite; here it is formed not only by the inguinal ligament, but also by the lacunar ligament. At this point, as the student has already observed, the cord rests directly upon the abdominal surface of the latter ligament. The parts which enter into the formation of the anterior wall are—(i) the aponeurosis of the external oblique throughout the entire extent of the canal; and (2) the lower border of the internal oblique in the lateral third of the canal. These facts can be readily verified by restoring the structures to their original positions. The parts which compose the posterior wall are still m situ. Naming them in order, from the inlet to the outlet, they are—(i) the fascia transversalis; (2) the falx inguinalis; and (3) the ligamentum inguinale reflexum, when it is strongly developed. But it may be asked, does the transversus abdominis muscle take no part in the formation of the inguinal canal ? The student can readily satisfy himself as to this point. He will notice that the arched lower border of this muscle does not descend so low as that of the internal oblique, that, in fact, it stops short immediately above the abdominal inguinal ring. The canal is closed superiorly by the approximation of the anterior and posterior walls above the cord and by the inter- vention between these walls of the lower border of the trans- versus abdominis. There is still another point to be noted, viz. the relation which the inferior epigastric artery bears to the posterior wall of the canal. This vessel can be felt (and, indeed, in most cases seen) extending obliquely upwards and medially, posterior to the transver.salis fascia, to the lateral border of the rectus. A triangular space is thus mapped out by the artery, the inguinal ligament, and the lateral border of the rectus. 'I’his receives the name of the triangle of Hesselbach. The space corresponds with the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, and chiefly with that part of it which is compo.sed of the falx inguinalis (O.T. conjoined tendon). In the female the inguinal canal is much smaller than in the male. It has the same boundarie.s, and it is traversed by the round ligament of the uterus. Arteries of the Abdominal Wall.—'I'he following arteries will be found in the abdominal wall:—ABDOMEN 404 1. The intercostal and lumbar arteries. 2. The inferior epigastric. 3. The deep circumflex iliac. 4. The superior epigastric. 5. The musculo-phrenic. The intercostal arteries of the two lower spaces are pro- longed forwards between the internal oblique and the trans- versus abdominis. They have already been noted accom- panying the corresponding nerves. In front they anasto- mose with branches of the epigastric arteries, whilst inferiorly they effect communications with the lumbar arteries. The abdominal brattches of the lumbar arteries ramify between the same two muscles as the preceding vessels, but at a lower level in the abdominal wall. Anteriorly they anastomose with branches of the inferior epigastric artery; above with the intercostal arteries; and below with the deep circumflex iliac and the ilio-lumbar arteries. Arteria Epigastrica Inferior (O.T. Deep Epigastric Artery). —This branch of the external iliac is a vessel of some size. It takes origin about a quarter of an inch above the inguinal ligament. At present it is seen shining through the fascia transversalis and forming the lateral boundary of Hesselbach’s triangle. Divide the fascia transversalis along its course and note the two veins which accompany the artery. Study the course and relations of this vessel. At first it runs medially for a short distance between the inguinal ligament and the abdominal inguinal ring, and then chang- ing its direction it is carried upwards and medially on the medial side of the ring. Reaching the deep surface of the rectus it enters the rectal sheath, and proceeding vertically upwards, ends, near the lower margin of the thorax, in branches which sink into the substance of the muscle and anastomose with the superior epigastric. In the first part of its course, the deep epigastric lies in the extra-peritoneal fat between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis. Soon, however, it pierces the fascia, and, passing in front of the linea semilunaris, ascends between the rectus muscle and the posterior lamella of its sheath. These arc its immediate relations, but there are others of equal importance, viz. (i) its it runs upwards it lies close to the medial side of the abdominal inguinal ring; (2) as the spermatic cord traverses the inguinal canal it lies in front of the artery, only separatedABDOMINAL WAI,L 405 from it by transversalis fascia; (3) as the ductus deferens passes from the inguinal canal into the abdominal cavity it hooks round the lateral side of the artery. The branches which spring from the deep epigastric are— 1. External spermatic. 2. Pubic. 3. Cutaneous. 4. Muscular. The external spermatic is a small twig which supplies the cremaster muscle and anastomoses with the internal spermatic artery. The pubic, also insignificant in size, runs medially, along the pubes, and sends downwards an obturator branch which anastomoses with a small branch from the obturator. The importance of this branch arises from the fact that the anastomosis which it establishes sometimes becomes so large as to take the place of the obturator artery. The muscular branches are given to the substance of the rectus, and the cutaneous offsets pierce the abdominal muscles and anastomose with the superficial epigastric artery. Arteria Circumflexa Ilii Profunda (Deep Circumflex Iliac). —This vessel springs from the lateral side of the external iliac artery, about the same level as the deep epigastric, and runs laterally, behind the inguinal ligament, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. From this point onwards it takes the crest of the ilium as its guide, and ends by anastomosing with the ilio-lumbar artery. At first it is placed in the extra- peritoneal fat, and consequently it lies between the fascia trans- versalis and the peritoneum. Its course behind the inguinal ligament is indicated by a whitish line, which marks the union of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca ; and if the former fascia be now divided along this line the deep circumflex iliac will be exposed. At the crest of the ilium the vessel pierces the fascia transversalis, and lies between this and the trans- versalis muscle ; and lastly, about the middle point of the iliac crest, it pierces the transversalis muscle and its terminal twigs ramify between it and the internal oblique. In this manner, then, the artery gradually approaches the surface as it passes from its origin to its termination. The dissector has already seen the ascending branch which it sends upwards between the internal oblique and transverse muscles. Art. Epigastrica Superior and Art. Musculo-phrenica.—4o6 ABDOMEN These are the two terminal branches of the internal mam- mary. The superior epigastric be found behind the rectus muscle and within the upper part of its sheath. It gives twigs to the rectus, and anastomoses with the inferior epi- gastric and the intercostal arteries. The musculo-phre7iic can only be seen by reflecting the transversus abdominis from the ribs. It will be found at the level of the eighth rib. From this it proceeds downwards along the attachment of the diaphragm, to the last intercostal space. It gives branches to the diaphragm and others (anterior intercostalis), which enter some of the lower inter- costal spaces. Dissection.—When the transversalis fascia is reflected the only layers which intervene between the dissector and the abdominal cavity are the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the parietal peritoneum. If the subject be a male, now is the best time for the student to examine the constitution of the scrotum, spermatic cord, and testis. This can only be done at present on the right side, as the parts on the opposite side must be kept in situ for the study of hernia. After that study has been made the dissection can be repeated on the left side. Scrotum.—This is a pendulous purse-like arrangement of the skin and superficial fascia for the lodgment of the testes. The skin composing it is of a dark colour and rugose, and is traversed, along the middle line, by a mediati raphe or ridge, an indication of its bilateral character. The superficial fascia possesses certain characters peculiar to itself. It has a ruddy colour, and is totally devoid of fat. The ruddy tint is due to the presence of involuntary muscular fibres, which take the place of the fat and constitute what is called the dartos muscle. The rugosity of the scrotal skin is maintained by these muscular fibres. But, further, the superficial fascia forms an imperfect septum or partition, which divides the interior of the scrotum into two chambers —one for each testis. These points in connection with the construction of the scrotum have all, to a certain degree, been noted in the dissection of the perineum. But these two scrotal tunics are not the only coverings of the testis. Each constituent of the abdominal wall has been seen to contribute an investment to the spermatic cord, and these in turn are continued down so as to clothe the testis. Presuming, then, that the skin and superficial fascia are reflected, the testis and cord within the scrotum will still be found to be invested byABDOMINAL WALL 407 1. The external spermatic or intercolumnar fascia from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. 2. The cremasteric fascia—the muscular element of which is partly derived from the internal oblique. 3. The infundibuliform fascia from the fascia transversalis. The dissector will find it difficult to demonstrate in every case these different investments of the: testis. In cases of large hernite of old standing, however, they become thickened, and are more readily recognisable. In any case the dissector works at a great disadvantage when he attempts to unfold the coverings of the cord and unravel its constituent parts while they are attached to the body. The cord and testis of the right side should be removed by dividing the former with its coverings at the level of the sub- cutaneous inguinal ring. The specimen should then be placed in a cork- lined tray and dissected under water. Having fastened the cord and testicle, with pins, to the bottom of the tray, little difficulty will be experienced in displaying and recognising the different layers, and a splendid demonstration will be afforded of the constituent parts of the cord. From the above description the student will understand that there is only o?ie tunic common to both testes—viz. the-integument; that the superficial fascia and dartos, forming the dartos tunic, and the investments derived from the abdominal wall, constitute special tunics for each testis. Funiculus Spermaticus (Spermatic Cord).—The spermatic cord is formed by the association together of certain blood- vessels, nerves, and lymph vessels, along with the ductus deferens, all of which are proceeding to or coming from the testis. These structures come together at the abdominal inguinal ring, and this may be taken as the point at which the cord begins. It has already been traced in its course through the inguinal canal, and has been observed to issue from it through the subcutaneous inguinal ring. It is now seen as it lies within the scrotum suspending the testicle. Before dissecting out the constituent parts of the cord, examine the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which lies behind the abdominal inguinal ring. Note that a process of this tissue is prolonged downwards with the cord. Now with the handle of the knife gently separate the extra-peritoneal fat from the subjacent peritoneum. Behind the abdominal inguinal ring the peritoneum shows a slight bulging forwards, and a slender fibrous band may be detected passing into the cord from the most prominent part of this bulging. This fibrous cord is the remains of the tube of peritoneum which, in the foetus, connected the serous invest- ment of the testicle (the tunica vaginalis) with the general peritoneal lining of the abdomen. In some cases it may be 1—26 «ABDOMEN 4o8 traced as far as the testis, but more commonly it only extends down the cord for a short distance; indeed it is frequently absent. To obtain a proper conception of this fibrous thread, it is necessary that the student should understand that neither the testis nor the tunica vaginalis are developed in the scrotum. In the early months of foetal life the rudimentary scrotum is devoid both of tunica vaginalis and testis, and Fig. 152. — Diagrams illustrating the descent of the Testis and the deriva- tion of the tunica vaginalis from the peritoneal lining of the abdominal cavity. the testis lies on the posterior wall of the abdomen projecting forwards into the great serous cavity of the abdomen which is called the peritoneal cavity. The wall of the peritoneal cavity is formed by a membrane called the peritoneum, and the inner surface of the membrane is lined by a layer of flat epithelium, peritoneal epithelium. The peritoneum which is in contact, externally, with the general muscular wall of the abdomen is called the parietal peritoneum ; but here and there the posterior wall of the peritoneal sac is invaginated by one or other of the abdominal viscera. When the invaginating viscus carries forward more peritoneum than is necessary to cover its surface the excess of peritoneum forms a fold which connects the viscus with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; such folds are called mesenteries and they connect the peritoneum covering the invaginat- ing viscus, which is termed the visceral peritoneum, with the parietalABDOMINAL WALL 409 peritoneum lining the inner surface of the abdominal wall. The testis is developed in the lumbar region, and it projects forwards into the peritoneal cavity covered with a layer of epithelium, which is continuous with the peritoneal epithelium. It also invaginates a portion of the wall of the peritoneal sac and so produces a mesentery connecting the testis and the epithelium .which covers its surface with the parietal peritoneum, this is called the mesorchium. The testis and its mesorchium gradually descend in the wall of the peritoneal sac to the inguinal region and, at the same time, a diverticulum of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, is projected through the inguinal portion of the abdominal wall into the scrotum, producing by its passage the inguinal canal, and prolonging the cavity of the peritoneum into the scrotum. During the latter part of the seventh and the early part of the eighth month of foetal life the testis, with its epithelium and its mesorchium, descends along the posterior wall of this diverticulum, and during the ninth month it comes to rest near the lower end of the scrotum, where it projects forwards in the posterior wall of the lower part of the processus vaginalis. In the meantime the cavity of the upper part of the processus vaginalis disappears and its peritoneal wall forms a solid fibrous cord {Rudiinetitum processus vaginalis). The lower part of the sac, thus cut oft', is the tunica vaginalis of the testis. Its cavity is now entirely separated from the cavity of the peritoneum, but its wall is still connected, for a longer or shorter time, with the peritoneum by the fibrous cord which is the remains of the upper part of the processus vaginalis. In most cases, however, this cord undergoes atrophy from below upwards, and in many cases, as already mentioned, it entirely disappears. The orifice of communication between the processus vaginalis and the peritoneal cavity is usually closed before birth, and the cavity of the upper portion of the process, from the abdominal inguinal ring to the persistent tunica vaginalis, is generally obliterated during the first month of extra- uterine life. The cause of the descent of the processus vaginalis and the testis is still a subject of dispute. It has been suggested :—(i) that it is due to different growth energy in adjacent parts; (2) to traction from below produced by a musculo-fibrous cord, ihe gubernaculuni of the testis, which grows through the inguinal part of the abdominal wall and is attached to the interior of the scrotum, whilst above it is attached to the testis and the adjacent peritoneum ; (3) to the action of intra-abdominal pressure tending to displace the testis downwards. Dissection.—The coverings of the spermatic cord should now be removed, and the parts which enter into its formation isolated from each other. Constituent Parts of the Spermatic Cord.—The following are the structures which form the spermatic cord :— I. The ductus deferens (O.T. vas deferens). 2. Blood-vessels. Arteries. Veins. Lymph vessels. Nerves. / spermatic The internal spermatic. The external spermatic. The artery to the ductus deferens. The pampiniform plexus of veins. f Sympathetic twigs. These are all held together by loose areolar tissue whichABDOMEN 410 intervenes between them, and also by the investments which are given to the cord by the abdominal wall. The external spermatic artery is a branch of the inferior epigastric, and has already been seen entering the cremaster muscle. The external spermatic nerve, a branch of the genito- femoral nerve, has a similar destination. It has also been parts. (From Waldeyer, modified.) side it pOUrS its blood into the- left side it joins the left renal vein. The ductus deferc7is (O.T. vas deferens), the duct of the testis, can always be distinguished by the hard, firm, cord- like sensation which it gives when the spermatic cord is held between the finger and thumb. It ascends along the posterior part of the cord. At the abdominal inguinal ring, however, it separates from the spermatic vessels, and lies to their medial side; as it enters the abdomen it hooks round the inferior epigastric artery. The artery to the ductus deferens is a small branch from a superior vesical. It follows the duct to the testis. displayed in aprevious stage of the dissection. Fig. 153.—Dissection of the Left Sper- matic Cord to show its constituent The internal spermatic artery arises within the abdomen from the front of the aorta, it enters the cord at the abdominal inguinal ring, and proceeds to the testis, into the posterior border of which it sinks, after dividing into several smaller twigs. The pampini- form veins issue from the testis at its posterior border, and, as they pass upwards, they form, in the cord, a bulky plexus, which is termed the pampinifo7-m plexus. A single vessel, the spemnatic veiti, issues from this, and enters the abdomen through the abdominal in- guinal ring. On the right the inferior vena cava; onABDOMINAL WALI. 411 The sympathetic filaments extend downwards upon the internal spermatic artery. They come from the renal and aortic plexuses. The spermatic lymph vessels enter the abdomen through the abdominal inguinal ring, and join the lumbar glands. Testis (O.T. Testicle).—The testis should next be examined. First note its position in the scrotum. It lies somewhat Skin — Dart os Ext. spermatic fascia Cremasteric Infundibuliform fascia Parietal vaginalis Visceral tunica" vaginalis Tunica albuginea- A lobule of the testis A septule Mediastinum testis Digital fossa- I nternal spermatic vein Ductus Artery to ductus deferens Internal spermatic artery Internal muscular tunic of Kolliker Fig. 154.—Transverse section through the left side of the Scrotum and the Left Testis, seen from above. The sac of the tunica vaginalis repre- sented in a distended condition. obliquely, with its superior extremity directed forwards and laterally, and its inferior extremity backwards and medially. The left testis usually hangs at a lower level than the right. Each testis is enveloped by the tunica vaginalis testis. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac, and, consequently, pre- sents a parietal or scrotal portion, and a visceral or testicular portion. Its extent can be demonstrated in a striking manner by making a small aperture in the parietal part, and then introducing a blow-pipe into the serous cavity and inflat- ing it with air. It will be seen to be considerably larger than412 ABDOMEN the gland which it envelops. It ascends for some distance upon the spermatic cord, and it even descends beyond the testis. When flaccid, the parietal part is simply wrapped loosely over the visceral portion which adheres to the surface of the testis. A Fig. 155. A. The Right Testis and F-pididj'mis within the tunica vaginalis. (A. F. Di.xon.) s. c. Spermatic cord. g-.m. Caput epididymidis. e. Corpus epididymidis. i. Testis. h. Appendix testis (Morgagni). t. v. Tunica vaginalis. B. The Right Testis and Epididymis seen from behind, after removal of the parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. (A. F. Dixon.) l.v'. Cut edge of tunica v.aginalis along the line where the parictnl part becomes con- tinuous with the visceral part. v.d. 1 luctus deferens. g.ni'. Cauda e))ididymidis. Dissection.—Open into the sac of the tunica vaginalis by running a pair of scissors along the anterior aspect of the parietal part. When the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis is folded backwards the form of the testis may be studied, and also the manner in which it is attached to the posterior wall of the sac. Body of the Testis and Epididymis.—The testi.s is an oval body, with flattened sides. The posterior margin is also some- what flattened, and is in relation with the epididymis. This is an elongated and arched structure, which is adapted to the superiorABDOMINAL WALl. 4'3 extremity and lateral side of the posterior margin of the testis. The superior extremity of the epididymis is enlarged, and is termed the caput epididymidis (O.T. globus major); its inferior extremity is called the ca/^da epididymidis (O.T. globus minor) ; while the intervening portion, which is narrow, receives the name of the corpus epididymidis (body of the epididymis). The caput epididymidis is attached to the superior extremity of the testis, which it surmounts like a helmet, both by the visceral tunica vaginalis which is continued over it, and also by the ductuli efferentes, which pass from the one into the other. The caiida epididymidis is merely fixed to the back of the testis by the visceral tunica vaginalis and some intervening areolar tissue, whilst the body of the epididymis is free, and is separated from the body of the testis by an involution of the serous covering which forms the wall of the digital fossa. If the superior extremity of the body of the testis be care- fully examined, two minute structures will be observed attached to it close to the head. These are the appendices testis (O.T. hydatids of Morgagni), remnants of an embryonic canal called Muller’s duct. One of the hydatids is usually pear-shaped and stalked; the other is smaller and generally sessile. The ductus deferc7is emerges from the inferior extremity of the tail of the epididymis, and then passes upwards upon the posterior margin of the testis and on the medial side of the body and head of the epididymis. By this relation, the side to which a given testis belongs can be readily detected. 'I'he vessels have already been seen entering and emerging from the posterior margin of the testis. Visceral Layer of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis.—Having learned the foregoing points concerning the testis, the student is in a position to trace the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. Observe that it is attached to the posterior border of the testicle, where the vessels enter and emerge, and that it covers the sides of the epididymis. On the lateral surface of the organ it forms a little cul-de-sac between the body of the epididymis and the body of the testis. This is called the digital fossa. Note particularly that it is along the posterior border of the testis that the epithelium lining the tunica vaginalis becomes continuous with the epithelium on the testis. Dissection.—Some of the main facts relating to the .structure of the testis may he learned hy a careful naked-eye examination of its difl'erent4T4 ABDOMEN parts. For this purpose place it in a cork-lincd tray and dissect it under water. Having fixed it to the bottom of the tray, with pins, begin by tracing tlie vessels into the gland. In doing this a tpiantity of involuntary muscular tissue spread over the posterior border of the testis and the epididymis becomes apparent. This is the inncruinsculartunic of KoUiker. Now free the tail and body of the epididymis from the back of the gland. This can be easily done by cutting the serous covering as it passes from one to the other, and breaking through the fibrous tissue which intervenes between the tail and the lower part of the body of the testis. Do not interfere with the head. When the body and tail of the epididymis are turned aside, the body of the testis may be divided trans- versely, with a sharp knife, about its middle, into an upper and a lower portion. Structure of the Testis.—The cut surface of the lower part of the body of the testis may now be studied. The dense, tough fibrous coat which envelops it, under cover of the epithelium, first attracts attention. It is called the tunica albuginea. At the posterior margin of the testis it will be seen to be projected into the interior in the form of a thick fibrous elevation. This extends along the whole length of the posterior border, and receives the name of the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmori). It is traversed by the vessels that pass into and out from the gland, and it is also tunnelled by a plexus of seminal canals, called the rete testis {Ifal/eri). From the front and sides of the mediastinum testis radiat- ing fibrous lines will be seen passing into the substance of the testis. These are the cut margins of incomplete fibrous septula which extend towards the deep surface of the tunica albuginea and become connected with it (Fig. 154). By means of these partitions and the mediastinum testis, the space enclosed by the tunica albuginea becomes broken up into a large number of lobules or compartments, two to three hundred in number, the walls of which are imperfect. Such is the fibrous framework of the body of the testicle. The blood-vessels have a very definite arrangement with reference to this framework. Passing in through the media- stinum they spread out on the deep surface of the tunica albuginea, and upon both surfaces of the fibrous septula which bound the testicular comj)artment.s. The va.scular mesh-work thus formed is sometimes called the tunica vasculosa. The proper glandular substance of the testis is lodged within the compartments described above. It consists of an enormous number of fine hair-like tubes, termed the contortedABDOMINAL \VAT,L 415 irr/. seminiferous tubules. Two or more occupy eacli compart- ment, and constitute what is ealled a testicular lobule. In this they are closely packed and are coiled and convoluted to an extraordinary degree. The dissector should now endeavour to unravel some of these tubuli seminiferi under water. It will be impossible to open them out in their whole length, but a sufficiently good demonstration may be obtained to make their general arrange- ment apparent. Each tube averages two feet in length. Approaching the media- stinum testis the tubuli semin- iferi contorti join each other at acute angles and form a smaller number of tubes, which finally become straight and consider- ably reduced in diameter. These are called the tubuli seminiferi recti. They enter the mediastinum and join the rete testis. Fig. 156.—Diagram illustrating the Structure of the Testis. (A. F. Dixon.) Dissection.—The tubuli seminiferi contorti should now be removed from the lower part of the testis. This can be done with the forceps under a stream of water. A good view is then obtained of the fibrous frame- work of the testicle. The strength of the tunica albuginea becomes evident, whilst the mediastinum testis and the septules which proceed from it are seen to great advantage. The clissector must next endeavour to ascertain the manner in which the secretion of the testis pa.sses from the rete testis into the epididymis. For this purpose the upper part of the testis with the attached epididymis must be examined. Gently raise the caput cpididymidis from the surface of the body of the testis by dividing the visceral part of the tunica vaginalis which binds them together, and carefully break down the intervening connective tissue. Under favourable circumstances the dncln/i efferentes may be seen. v.il. Ductus deferens. g.w'. Cauda epididymidis. c. Caput epididymidis. c.v. Coni vasculosi. v.c. Ductuli eflerentia testis. v.r. Tubuli .seminiferi recti. r. v. Rete testis. s. t. Contorted seminiferous tubule, j. Septula testi.s. Structure of the Epididymis.—The ductuli efferentes testis are fifteen to twenty delicate ducts which leave the upper part of the rete testis, jiierce the tunica albuginea, and pass into the caput epididymidis. In the caput the vasa efferentia become coiled and form a series of small conical4i6 ABDOMEN masses, called the co7ii vasculosi. Ultimately these ducts open into a single convoluted canal, termed the ductus epididymidis. The head of the epididymis is thus composed of the coni vasculosi and the coiled ductus epididymidis. The body and tail of the epididymis are formed of the continuation of the same canal coiled and convoluted upon itself to a remark- able degree. The intricacy of its flexuosities will be better understood by simply stating that if it were completely opened out it would be found to measure twenty feet or more. At the lower end of the cauda epididymidis the ductus epididymidis becomes continuous with the ductus deferens. Dissection.—The dissector should endeavour to unravel a part of the ductus epididymidis. The coils are held together by areolar tissue and the dissection is very tedious. Penis.—The penis has already, to a certain extent, been studied in the dissection of the perineum (p. 351). It has cavernosum penis ends in a blunt rounded extremity, which is covered by the glans penis. The corpus cavernosum urethree, when traced backwards into the perineum, expands into the bulb of the urethra which is attached, in the medial plane, to the inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm ; traced forwards to the extremity of the penis, it is again found to expand into the glans penis., which fits like a cap upon the rounded end of the corpus cavernosum penis. 'I'he glans penis is somewhat conical in shape, and the projecting margin of its base is termed the corona glandis. 'I'he urethra opens at the extremity of the glans by a vertical fissure, called the meatus urinarius. Fig. 157.—Median section through the terminal part of the Penis. Urethra surrounded by the corpus cavernosum uretlirai been seen to be composed of the corpus cavernosum pans and the cotpus cavernosum urethrcr. Posteriorly, the corpus cavernosum penis divides into the two crura penis which are attached to the sides of the pubic arch ; an- teriorly, the corpusABDOMINAL WALL 417 The integumefii of the pe?iis is remarkable for its great delicacy and elasticity, and the absence of hairs. It has a brownish tint, and is freely movable over the organ. At the glans the skin leaves the body of the penis, and, passing for a variable distance over the glans, is folded back upon itself so as to form the prepuce. The deep layer of the prepuce reaches the penis again behind the corona glandis, and is then reflected forwards over the glans to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the urethra at the meatus urinarius. A slight fold will be observed on the under surface of the glans, extending from the lower angle of the urinary orifice to the prepuce; this is the frenum preputii. Dissection.—Reflect the integument from the surface of the penis by making a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the dorsum. The superficial fascia will then be seen to be composed of a quantity of loose areolar tissue, which is devoid of fat. The suspensory ligament and the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis should now be dissected. The vessels and nerves are covered by the deep fascia of the penis. Suspensory Ligament of the Penis. — The suspensory ligament of the penis is a strong fibro-elastic band of a triangular shape. By its posterior border it is attached to the symphysis pubis. Towards the penis it separates into two lamellae, which join the deep fascia of the body of the organ. Between the two lamellae are placed the dorsal vessels and nerves. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves.—On the dorsum of the penis, in the groove which extends along the middle line of the corporus cavernosum penis, is the deep dorsal vein; on each side of this is the dorsal artery, and superficial and lateral to the artery is the dorsal nerve. On the dorsum of the penis, therefore, we find one vein, tivo arteries, and two nerves. The dorsal vein of the penis begins by several twigs from the glans and prepuce. It extends backwards in the middle line, passes betw'een the two layers of the suspensory ligament, and gains the pelvis by passing under the arcuate ligament. It ends by joining the prostatic (pudendal) plexus of veins. The dorsal arteries are the terminal twigs of the internal pudendal vessels. 'They pass forward between the two layers of the suspen.sory ligament, and, continuing their course, on the dorsum of the penis, they terminate in branches to the glans penis. The dorsal nerves are branches of the pudendal. They VO[„ I—27ABDOMEN 4i8 have a similar course to the arteries, and end in fine twigs to the papillae of the glans. Trigonum Lumbale and Lumbar Fascia. On the sixth clay after the body was placed on its back it will be turned upon its face, with blocks supporting the thorax and pelvis, and in this position it will remain for five days. At the end of the first or the beginning of the second day of this period, when the dissector of the upper extremity has cleaned the latissimus dorsi, the dissector of the abdomen must take the opportunity of examining the posterior border of the external oblique. As tire posterior border of the muscle passes from the last rib to Serratus post. inf. Latissimus dorsi Transversus abdominis Internal oblitpie External oblique Fascia transversalis Sacrospinalis Quadratus lu inborn m Psoas magnus Fig. 158.—Lumbar fascia and sheath of Rectus abdominis. The dotted line represents the Peritoneum. the lateral lip of the iliac crest it is quite free and, in many cases, there is a small triangular interval between it and the lower part of the lateral border of the latissimus dorsi in which the fibres of the more deeply situated internal oblique can be seen. This is the trigomivi lumbale Petiti. It is a comparatively weak region of the abdominal wall, and in some rare cases hernia of the abdominal contents occurs through it. Not uncommonly, however, the lateral border of the latissimus dorsi overlaps the posterior border of the external oblique, and in these cases the trigonum lumbale does not exist. On the third day, after the dissector of the upper extremity has reflected the muscles which connect the upper extremity with the trunk on the posterior aspect, the dissector of the abdomen, in association with the dissector of the head and neck, should examine the lumbar fascia and the lumbar origins of the internal oblique and the transversus abdominis muscles. The lumbar fascia is a portion of the lumbo-dorsal fascia which bindsABDOMINAL WALL 419 down the deep muscles of the back at the sides of the spines of the vertebra:. In the thoracic region it is a thin transparent lamina which extends from the spines of the vertebrre to the angles of the ribs. At the upper end of the thoracic region it disappears into the neck under cover of the serralus posterior superior. In the lumbar region it becomes much stronger and more complicated. Above it is continuous with the dorsal portion of the fascia and is attached to the last rib. Medially it is attached to the tips of the spines and transverse processes, and to the fronts of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrre; laterally it is connected with the transversus abdominis and the internal oblique, and below it is closely attached to the posterior part of the lateral lip of the iliac crest. In the pelvic region it is attached to the spines of the sacrum and to the back of the lower part of the sacrum and to the back of the coccyx. In the lumbar region its posterior lamella covers the rounded column of the spinal muscles, and to this part the remains of the origin of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus posterior inferior will be found attached. The former must be cleared away, the latter extends upwards and laterally to its attachment to the lower four ribs. It must be cut through at right angles to its fibres and turned aside, its nerves of supply, from the anterior branches of the lower thoracic nerves, being sought for on its deep surface. The remains of its origin from the lumbar fascia must be cleared away and then a vertical incision must be made through the fascia, midway between the medial and lateral borders of the rounded mass of the spinal muscles, and at each end of the longitudinal incision a transverse incision must be made, one just below the last rib and the other just above the iliac crest. The trans- verse incisions should commence at the spine and should not extend beyond the lateral margin of the mass of spinal muscles. The medial part of the divided fascia must be turned to the median plane and its attachments to the tips of the spine verified. The lateral part should be pulled laterally, and at the lateral border of the mass of spinal muscles it will be found to blend with a deeper layer. Push the spinal muscles medially and follow the middle lamella to its attachment to the tips of the transverse processes. The dissectors should then note that the upper fibres of origin of the internal oblique spring from the lumbar fascia just lateral to the line where the middle and posterior lamellre of the fascire blend. There is still, how- ever, another lamella of the lumbar fascia, the anterior lamella. To display this the dissector must divide the middle lamella vertically, close to its attachments to the tips of the transverse processes, and transversely along the line of its attachment to the iliac crest. The middle lamella can then be turned laterally and the posterior surface of the quadratus lumborum is brought into view. When the lateral border of this muscle is displaced towards the median plane the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia will be exposed. The dissector should place his finger upon its surface and trace, it medially and laterally. Medially he will be able to follow it to, or to within a short distance of the roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and laterally he will find that it joins the remainder of the fascia some distance lateral to the union of the posterior and middle lamella;. He must note, further, that beyond the union of the three lamella; the lumbar fascia is continued into the transversus abdominis, and thus it is, through the lumbar fascia, that the transversus obtains its origin from the tips of the spines, and transverse processes, and the fronts of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra;. When he has satisfied himself regarding the lamella; of the lumbar fascia and their relation to the internal oblique and the transversus adominis, the dissector should carefully divide the anterior lamella longitudinally and introducing his finger, through the incision, into the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue, he should scrape away theABDOMEN 420 latter until he exposes the lower part of the kidney, below the level of the last rib, and the adjacent part of the colon which lies along the lower and lateral part of the kidney. After this has been done the dissector of the abdomen ceases work till the body is re turned, when he will re-examine the anatomy of the inguinal region in association with the formation of hernia, and afterwards proceed to the investigation of the abdominal cavity and its contents. HERNIA. The anatomy of the abdominal wall, in the regions where hernia most frequently occurs, is of such great importance to the practical surgeon that special attention must be paid to it by the dissector. Hernia is the term applied to the abnormal protrusion, through the wall of the abdomen, of a viscus, or a part of a viscus, or of a part of a peritoneal fold which supports or is attached to a viscus. It most commonly occurs where the peritoneal sac, or a diverticulum of the peritoneal sac, was prolonged through the abdominal wall at some period of intra-uterine develop- ment, The two situations in which such prolongations are always present are the inguinal region and the umbilicus, and it is stated that a small diverticulum is almost always met with, in the subinguinal region, dipping into the mouth of the femoral canal of the femoral sheath. These three regions, therefore, are the situations in which hernia is most often met with and it is asserted that the most important factor in the production of hernia is the presence of a more or less definite persisting diverticulum of the peritoneum. The diverticulum which existed in the inguinal region was the processus vaginalis described on pp. 408, 409. This diverticulum passed obliquely through the wall of the abdomen producing the inguinal canal, and although the diverticulum disappears the canal made by its passage may be looked upon, to a certain extent, as a source of weakness to the part of the wall through which it runs. The weakness, however, is more apparent than real, for the canal is so oblique in the adult that its abdominal opening, the abdominal inguinal ring, is one and a half inch distant from its super- ficial opening, the subcutaneous inguinal ring) the opening is, therefore, valvular and the intra-abdominal pressure, forcing the posterior against the anterior wall, tends to close the canal;421 HERNIA moreover, the constituent parts of the anterior and posterior walls are so arranged that weakness of one wall is compen- sated for by strength in the opposite wall. The dissector should now proceed to demonstrate the truth of these state- ments by making a special dissection of the inguinal region on the left side of the body, which has been kept intact for the purpose. Dissection.—Begin by reflecting the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Make a vertical incision through it, parallel to the lateral border of the rectus, and carry the incision downwards on the medial side of the medial crus of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The aponeurosis can thus be thrown downwards and laterally and, at the same time,- the subcutaneous ring is preserved. The internal oblique, cremaster, and falx inguinalis should now be cleaned, and their precise relations to the spermatic cord studied. Notice that the fleshy lower border of the internal oblique overlaps the upper part of the cord, whilst, towards the outlet of the inguinal canal, the falx inguinalis lies behind the cord. Next replace the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and introduce the point of the forefinger into the sub- cutaneous ring and press directly backwards. Observe that the finger rests upon either the lig. inguinale reflexum which lies anterior to the falx in- guinalis, or, if the reflex inguinal ligament is absent, upon the falx inguinalis itself; that, in fact, this fascia and tendon and the fascia transversalis inter- vene between the finger and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the peritoneum. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle should now be separated from the transversalis by insinuating the handle of the knife between them. When this is done, divide the internal oblique close to the inguinal ligament, and throw it medially. At the same time, make a longitudinal incision through the cremaster muscle, and turn it aside from the surface of the cord. All further dissection must be effected from the inside. Divide the abdominal wall horizontally, from side to side, at the level of the umbilicus. On raising the lower part and examining its posterior aspect three peritoneal folds are seen, the plica: ttmbilicales, a median and two lateral. In the median fold lies the urachus, which descends from the umbilicus to the apex of the bladder, and in each lateral fold is the obliterated portion of the umbilical branch of the hypogastric artery of the corresponding side. Each lateral fold, with the contained obliterated artery, descends from the um- bilicus to the side of the bladder if the latter is distended, and to the lateral wall of the pelvis if the bladder is empty. The lower part of the fold lies on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall, a short distance to the medial side of the abdominal inguinal ring. There is still another fold on each side of the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, caused by the inferior epigastric artery as it ascends to the posterior aspect of the rectus abdominis ; it is placed at a short distance to the lateral side of the lateral umbilical fold, but runs more or less parallel with it. By means of these folds three fossae are mapped out on each side of the middle line above the inguinal ligament ; they are termed the supravesical, the medial, and lateral inguinal fossae, and are regarded as determining, to some extent, hernial protrusions in the inguinal region. The supravesical fossa lies between the fold enclosing the urachus and that enclosing the obliterated part of the umbilical artery, and the subcutaneous inguinal ring is in front of its lower part, separated from it by the most medial part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. The middle inguinal fossa, t—27 a422 ABDOMEN narrow but frequently very deep, lies between the fold containing the obliterated part of the umbilical artery and that containing the inferior epigastric artery. It is behind that part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which is formed by the transversalis fascia only. The lateral inguinal fossa lies to the lateral side of the fold formed by the inferior epigastric artery and its lowest, medial, and deepest part corresponds with the abdominal inguinal ring. Having determined these points, the dissector can proceed as follows :— Divide the lower part of the abdominal wall in a vertical direction along the linea alba, from the umbilicus to the pubes. Make this incision a little on one side of the urachus, and, on nearing the pubic symphysis, be careful not to injure the bladder, which may project upwards beyond it. On throwing the left flap downwards and laterally, it may be possible to detect the position of the abdominal inguinal ring from the fact that in some cases the peritoneum is slightly dimpled into it. Now strip the peritoneum from the flap as far down as the inguinal ligament. This can be easily done with the fingers, as its connection with the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue is very slight. Next separate the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue from the fascia transversalis with the handle of the knife, proceeding with great care as the inguinal ligament is approached. The abdominal inguinal ring, or the inlet of the inguinal canal, is now seen from within. From this point of view the opening is more like a vertical slit in the fascia transversalis than a ring. Its lower and lateral margin will be seen to be specially strong and thick. Note the inferior epigastric artery passing upwards and medially close to its medial margin. Further, observe the ductus deferens and the spermatic vessels entering it, the former, as it disappears into the canal, hooking round the inferior epigastric artery. Introduce the tip of the little finger into the opening and push it gently downwards in the direction of the inguinal canal. On raising the flap of the abdominal wall and looking at its front aspect, a very striking demonstration of the infundibuliform fascia can thus be obtained. When the dissection is satisfactorily completed the student should note that there are three portions of each wall of the canal. At the medial end of the anterior wall lies the subcutaneous inguinal ring covered, and to a certain extent closed, by the intercrural fibres descending on the spermatic cord. Immediately to the lateral side of the superficial ring the anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique only, and at its lateral end the anterior wall is composed of the external oblique aponeurosis and the lower fibres of the internal oblique muscle : the anterior wall, therefore, is weakest at its medial and strongest at its lateral extremity. The posterior wall on the contrary is strongest at its medial and weakest at its lateral end. At its medial end, behind the subcutaneous inguinal ring, it is three layers thick, the layers from before backwards being the lig. inguinale reflexum, the falx inguinalis, and the transversalis fascia. More laterally, opposite the region where the anterior wall consists of external oblique aponeurosis alone, the posterior wall is formed by the transversalis fascia and the falx inguinalis, and still more laterally, where the anterior wall is formed by both external oblique aponeurosis and internal oblique muscle, the posterior wall is represented by transversalis fascia only. The walls of the canal are well adapted, therefore, to resist the eflects of intra- abdominal pressure. The student must remember, however, that, for practical purposes, in association with the formation of hernia, the contents of the abdomen may be looked upon as being of a fluid or semifluid nature, consec]uently if a portion of the abdominal contents happens to slip through the abdominal inguinal ring, into a persisting though shrunken processus vaginalis, the action of the abdominal pressure will, thenceforth, tend toHERNIA 423 distend the inguinal canal and force the abdominal contents further and further along it until they eventually protrude through the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The coverings of such a hernia will naturally be the con- stituent parts of the abdominal wall in the inguinal region that is from within outwards, (i) peritoneum, (2) extra-peritoneal fat, (3) infundibuli- form portion of transversalis fascia, (4) cremasteric fascia, (5) intercrural fascia, (6) superficial fascia, and (7) skin. A hernia which travels obliquely through the abdominal wall, along the line of the inguinal canal, is called an oblique inguinal hernia, and as the neck of the hernial sac lies to the lateral FtG. 159.—Diagram illustrating different forms of scrotal hernice. side of the inferior epigastric it is called a lateral inguinal hernia. If the cavity of the persisting processus vaginalis, into which the hernia has passed, is still continuous with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis the herniated viscus or peritoneal fold will enter the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, but if the cavity of the upper part of the processus vaginalis has been separated from that of the lower part, by the formation of an oblique or transverse septum, the upper part of the processus, with its contained hernia, may be forced downwards either anterior or posterior to the lower part, or the lower end of the upper part may invaginate the upper end of the lower part. Hernia: differentiated from each other by the relationship which the upper |)art of the processus, containing the herniated viscus, bears to the lower part, the tunica vaginalis, are described by surgeons under special names which the student will find fully explained in manuals of surgery. There are, \—21hABDOMEN 424 however, other forms of inguinal hernia which do not pass through the abdominal inguinal ring but through the posterior wall of the canal to the medial side of the inferior epigastric artery, and between it and the obliterated part of the umbilical artery, or still more medially between the obliterated part of the umbilical artery and the lateral border of the rectus. Such herniae, because they do not pass obliquely along the inguinal canal but more directly through its posterior wall, are called by the surgeon direct inguinal hernire. As there are no congenital diverticula of the peritoneum in these regions such hernim must be due either to the slow distension of weak points in the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, under the influence of the intra-abdominal pressure, or to the instant rupture of such points when the pressure is suddenly increased. After a pouch of the posterior wall, containing gut, has been protruded into the canal, or after a portion of the peritoneal sac containing gut has been forced through the posterior wall into the canal, the action of the abdominal pressure will tend to force the protrusion along the line of least resistance, which is usually down the canal to the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The coverings of the direct hernia will differ according to whether the hernia has torn the posterior wall or forced it forwards as a covering, and, in the latter case, according to whether the hernia has passed from the medial inguinal pouch between the inferior epigastric artery and the obliterated part of the umbilical arterj', or through the supravesical pouch to the medial side of the obliterated artery. The coverings of the hernia passing from the medial inguinal pouch will be the same as those of the oblique hernia, except that transversalis fascia will take the place of infundibuliform fascia ; but if the hernia passes from the supravesical pouch, to the medial side of the obliterated part of the um- bilical artery, it will push before it the falx inguinalis, it will enter the canal below the upper border of the cremasteric fascia, and it will receive no sheath from the latter fascia, from within outwards, therefore its anatomical coverings will be—(i) peritoneum, (2) extra-peritoneal fat, (3) transversalis fascia, (4) falx inguinalis, (5) intercrural fascia, (6) superficial fascia, (7) skin. The student should also understand that whilst it is commonly believed that oblique herniae are usually due to the persistence of a portion of the processus vaginalis there is no anatomical reason why a new peritoneal sac should not be formed in the region of the lateral inguinal fossa, that is in the region of the abdominal inguinal ring, as easily as in other regions. If such a pouch were formed it would pass along the line of the canal, its coverings would be similar to those of a hernia which had passed into the upper persisting part of the processus vaginalis, and its relationship to the tunica vaginalis would depend largely upon the size of the latter sac, that is upon how much of the lower part of the original processus remained un- obliterated, and upon the more anterior or posterior position of the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. Femoral Hernia.—This consists in the protrusion of some abdominal contents from the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In its descent it passes behind the inguinal ligament along the femoral canal of the femoral sheath. It is consequently mainly the duty of the student who is engaged in the dissection of the lower limb, and within whose domain the femoral sheath lies, to investigate the anatomical connections of this variety of hernia (p. 185). Still it is essential that the dissector of the abdomen should examine, from its abdominal aspect, the femoral ring or aperture of communication between the femoral canal and the abdominal cavity, and give the dissector of the lower limb an opportunity of doing so likewise. The femoral ring is placed immediately below the inguinal ligament, in the interval between the external iliac vein and the base of the lacunar425 HERNIA ligament (Gimbernat’s). If the peritoneum is still in position at this point it may exhibit a slight dimpling or depression as it passes over the ring. Strip the peritoneum from the greater part of the iliac fossa. The extra- peritoneal fatty tissue, as it stretches across the femoral ring, will be observed to be denser, stronger, and more fibrous than elsewhere. A special name is applied to this small portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. Seeing that it is applied to the ring in such a manner as to close the femoral canal at its abdominal end, it is called the septum femorale. The extra-peritoneal fatty tissue should now be dissected back with the handle of the knife, to the same extent as the peritoneum. The fascia iliaca clothing the iliacus and psoas muscles is thus exposed, and the dissector should note that the external iliac vessels lie within and not outside this fascia. The student is now in a position to study the manner in which the femoral ring is formed. Let him follow the fascia iliaca and the fascia transversalis towards the inguinal ligament. If the dissection has been carefully performed it will be obvious that, to the lateral side of the external iliac vessels, these two fasciae become directly continuous with each other, and, further, that along the line of union they are both firmly attached to the inguinal ligament. It is evident, then, that no hernial protrusion could leave the abdominal cavity behind the inguinal ligament and lateral to the iliac vessels. In the region of the iliac vessels the arrangement of the fascia will be found to be different. Here the fascia iliaca is carried downwards behind the vessels, whilst the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards in front of the vessels and behind the inguinal ligament. In the region of the thigh they together constitute a funnel-shaped sheath for the femoral artery and vein, and for some lymph vessels ascending to the abdomen. This sheath is divided into three compartments by two vertical partitions. The femoral artery occupies the lateral compartment, and the vein ^he intermediate compartment, whilst the medial compartment, called the femoral canal, is occupied by the lymph vessels and, sometimes, by a small lymph gland. An essential difference between these compartments is this—-that whilst the two lateral are completely filled up, by the artery and vein, the femoral canal is much wider than is necessary for the passage of its contents. Gauge the width of the femoral ring by introducing the point of the little finger. It is readily admitted within the opening. Here, then, is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and one which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that the distance between the iliac spine and pubic tubercle is proportionally greater in the female, and, in consequence, the femoral ring wider. When the finger is within the ring, mark the structures which surround it—in front, the inguinal ligament, with the spermatic cord or round ligament of the uterus ; behind, the ramus of the pubes, giving origin to the pectineus muscle, which is covered by the pectineal portion of the fascia lata ; medially, the sharp crescentic free border of the lacunar ligament ; and laterally, the external iliac vein. It is still more necessary to note the relations of the blood-vessels to the femoral ring. The external iliac vein has been seen to lie to its lateral side. The inferior epigastric artery, as it ascends on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, is close to its upper and lateral margin, and sends its pubic branch medially in front of it. More important than any of these is the relation of the obturator artery, when it takes origin from the inferior epigastric. This anomalous vessel may adopt one of three courses:—(i) It may follow the course of the pubic artery, an426 ABDOMEN enlarged form of which it in reality is, and pass medially in front of the ring, and then descend along its medial margin. In this case, the ring is surrounded on all sides, except posteriorly, by important vessels. (2) It may pass downwards and backwards across the femoral ring. (3) It may run downwards between the ring and the external iliac vein (vide p. 185). Medial to the femoral sheath the pa.ssage of a hernial protrusion behind the inguinal ligament is effectually prevented by the lacunar ligament. Femoral hernia is more common in females, and inguinal hernia in males ; and for the very evident reason that, in the female, the crural canal is relatively larger, whilst in the male the passage of the spermatic cord weakens the inguinal region more than the passage of the small round ligament of the uterus in the female. Umbilical Hernia.—If the dissector examines the umbilicus he will find that he is dealing with a dense fibrous ring which embraces and fuses with the remains of the umbilical vein, the remains of the obliterated parts of the umbilical arteries and the urachus, the whole forming a ciense nodule of fibrous tissue closely connected with the superjacent skin. The umbilicus marks the position where, during a large part of intra-uterine life, the peritoneal cavity was prolonged through the abdominal wall into the root of the umbilical cord which attached the foetus to the mother. For a considerable time a portion of the gut lies in the extra-abdominal sac in the root of the umbilical cord, but, before birth, it is withdrawn into the abdomen and the sac shrinks and disappears. If a remnant of the sac persists in the substance of the abdominal wall, after birth, the wall is weakened and a portion of the abdominal contents may be forced into the diverticulum, causing its distension and producing an umbilical hernia. The anatomical coverings from within outwards would be—(i) peritoneum, (2) aponeurosis of the abdominal wall equivalent to the stretched linea alba, (3) superficial fascia, (4) skin. If the foetal condition persists until birth a portion of the gut lies in the umbilical cord, separating the three vessels ; and more than one case has occurred in which the bowel has been cut when the cord was divided after the birth of the child. ABDOMINAL CAVITY. When he has completed his examination of the regions where hernia most commonly occurs the dissector should proceed to study the abdominal cavity and its contents. The abdomen must be more completely opened by an incision carried upwards, from the umbilicus to the xiphoid process, immediately to the left side of the median plane. On throwing the two flaps thus formed upwards and laterally, over the lower margin of the thorax, a strong fibrous cord, the ligatnenium teres, will be seen extending from the umbilicus to the under surface of the liver. It is the remains of the left umbilical vein of the foetus. As it ascends, towards the liver, it gradually recedes from theABDOMINAL CAVITY 427 posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall, taking with it a fold of peritoneum termed the falciform ligament of the liver. Shape and Boundaries of the Abdominal Cavity.—The abdominal cavity is ovoid in shape, its vertical diameter being the longest. Superiorly, it is roofed by the dome- shaped diaphragm, which presents a deep concavity towards the abdomen. Inferiorly, it is floored by the pelvic diaphragm, formed by the levatores ani and the coccygei muscles, which is also concave towards the abdominal cavity. Neither the roof nor the floor is complete and unbroken. The diaphragm is per- forated by certain struc- tures which pass between the thorax and the ab- domen. The continuity of the pelvic diaphragm is broken by the passage of certain structures be- tween the pelvic division of the abdominal cavity and the perineum. The upper part of the ab- dominal cavity extends upwards for a consider- able distance under the shelter of the lower ribs and their costal cartil- ages. The protection which is thus afforded to the viscera in this portion of the cavity is most complete laterally and behind. In front, as the costal cartilages ascend towards the sternum, a wide A-shaped gap is left between those of opposite sides. The level to which the costal arches descend on either side varies greatly in different subjects, but, in the great majority of cases, a narrow belt of abdominal wall, from one to two inches wide, is left between the lower border of the chest wall and the highest point of the iliac crest. This receives no skeletal Fig. 160.—Outline of the Abdominal Cavity as seen in medial section. The planes of subdivision are indicated by dotted lines.428 ABDOMEN support beyond that which is afforded by the vertebral column. Fig. 161.—Planes of subdivision of the Abdominal Cavitj-. R. H Right hypochonclrium. R.L. Right lumbar region. R.I. Right iliac region. K. Epigastric region. U. Umbilical region. H. Hypogastric region. 1,. H. Left hypochonclrium, L.L. Left lumbar region. L.I. Left iliac regiom Inferiorly, the expanded iliac bones give support to the abdominal walls posteriorly and laterally, whilst, in its lowest429 ABDOMINAL CAVITY part, the pubic, ischial, sacral, and coccygeal bones form very complete bony boundaries for the cavity. Whilst the abdominal cavity, therefore, is very fully pro- tected, posteriorly and laterally, by skeletal parts, the front wall is almost entirely formed by the muscles and apo- neuroses which have been dissected in this region. From this it will be seen that the roof, floor, and the greater part of the abdominal wall are composed of muscular structures, the contraction of which would diminish the capacity of the cavity and subject the contained viscera to compression. Subdivision of the Abdominal Cavity.—In dealing with so large a cavity, and one which contains such a diversity of contents, it is convenient to subdivide it into regions, in order that the precise position of each viscus may be accurately defined. In making the first subdivision, advan- tage is taken of the brim of the true pelvis. That part of the cavity which is situated above this is termed the abdomen proper; whilst the part which lies below it is called the pelvic cavity. These two portions of the general abdominal cavity do not lie the one directly over the other. The long axis of the abdomen proper is very nearly vertical; that of the pelvic cavity is very oblique, and directed backwards and downwards. Indeed, the pelvic cavity presents the appearance of a recess leading backwards and downwards from the lower and posterior part of the abdominal cavity (Fig. 160). The abdomen proper is still further subdivided by means of four arbitrary planes of section. Two of these are supposed to pass through the body in a horizontal direction, and two in a vertical direction. The former are termed the subcostal and the intertuberciilar planes of subdivision, and the position of each is determined as follows :—A horizontal line is drawn around the body at a level corresponding to the most dependent parts of the tenth costal arches. This gives the position of the subcostal plane. A second line is drawn horizontally around the trunk so as to pass, on each side, through the highest point on the iliac crest that is seen, from the front. This point is always easily determined, as a prominent tubercle juts out from the lateral lip of the iliac crest at the spot. It is situated rather more than two inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine, and it marks the point where the outline of the body meets the iliac crest. The430 ABDOMEN line which encircles the body at this level indicates on the surface the position of the intertubercular plane of subdivision. The two horizontal planes, thus placed, map out the abdomen into three districts or zones, which are termed from above downwards—(i) the costal^ (2) the iwibilical, and (3) the Jt)>pogastric zone. Fig. 162.—The Abdominal Viscera as seen from the front after removal of the great omentum. The dark lines indicate the subdivision of the abdominal cavity. (Birmingham.) The two vertical planes of subdivision are called the rigM and left lateral planes. Each corresponds, on the surface, to a perpendicular line reared from the midpoint between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. By these lateral planes, each of the three zones determined by the horizontal planes of section is subdivided into three. The costal zone is mapped olf into a central epigastricABDOMINAL CAVITY 431 region and a right and left hypocho7idriac regioti; the umbilical zone into a central umbilical region and a right and left lumbar regiofi ; and the hypogastric zone into a central hypogastric region and a right and left iliac region. Contents of Abdomen Proper.—Within the abdominal cavity we find the following structures ( Stomach. 1. Abdominal part of the alimentary canal.Small intestine. [Large intestine. 2. Glands situated outside the"! walls of the alimentary canal [Liver with its gall-bladder or reservoir, and pouring their secretions j Pancreas, into it. j 3. The spleen. 4. The two kidneys, the ureters, and the two suprarenal bodies. 5. Lymph glands, lymph vessels, the cisterna chyli, and the commence- ment of the thoracic duct. 6. The abdominal aorta, with its various visceral and parietal branches. 7. The inferior vena cava and its tributaries, and the commencements of the venae azygos and hemiazygos. 8. The vena portae and its tributaries. 9. The lumbar plexuses of nerves. 10. The abdominal portions of the sympathetic nervous system. 11. The peritoneal membrane which lines the cavity and invests the viscera. On opening the abdominal cavity, a very partial view of the contained viscera is obtained, so long as they are left undisturbed. On the right side of the costal zone the sharp margin of the liver may be observed, projecting slightly below the ribs, whilst opposite the ninth costal cartilage the fundus of the gall-bladder is seen peeping out from under cover of the liver, and projecting slightly beyond its anterior border. In the same zone, to the left of the liver, a portion of the stomach is visible, whilst extending downwards from the greater curvature or anterior border of this viscus is a broad apron- like fold of peritoneal membrane, called the great oinetitwn. This usually contains a quantity of fat in its meshes, and is spread out like an apron, so as to hide from view the viscera which occupy the two lower zones. Sometimes, how- ever, the great omentum is narrow and short; or it may be turned more or less completely upwards or to the side. In either case some of the coils of the small intestine will be seen, and also, in all probability, those parts of the great intestine which occupy the right and left iliac fossae. The part lying in the right iliac fossa is called the caecian, whilst the part situated in the left iliac fossa is the iliac colon. It432 ABDOMEN may also chance that the bladder is full, in which case its apex will be observed projecting above the pubes. Lastly, in pregnant females the gravid uterus will be visible, reaching a height which corresponds with the period of gestation. Raise the great omentum and turn it upwards over the lower margin of the thorax. By this proceeding the coils of the small intestine are exposed and a part of the great intestine, which extends across the cavity of the abdomen, will be seen attached to the posterior part of the great omentum. This is the transverse colon. Note that all the viscera which have been seen are covered by a smooth glistening membrane, the peritoneum. This membrane forms the immediate boundary of a space, the perito7ieal cavity, which has been opened into by the reflection of the anterior wall of the abdomen. The dissector should recognise that under normal circumstances the peritoneal cavity is merely a potential cavity, and that it only becomes an actual cavity when the surgeon or dissector pulls its walls apart in opening into it, or when its walls are forced apart by abnormal collections of fluid or gas. Replace the great omentum and commence a fuller consideration of the general position, relations, and connec- tions of the viscera by examining the general position of the liver. Hepar (The Liver).—The liver is the large, reddish-brown organ which occupies a large part of the upper portion of the abdomen, where it lies in the epigastric and both hypochon- driac regions. A very large portion of its surface is in contact with the diaphragm which separates it from the contents of the lower part of the thorax. The lower border of its anterior surface is seen crossing the subcostal angle from above downwards and to the right, and continuing to the right either along or immediately below the right costal arch. Opposite the tip of the ninth right costal cartilage the fundus of the gall- bladder projects from beneath it. Pass the hand over its anterior and upper surfaces and note that they are connected to the anterior abdominal wall and to the diaphragm re- spectively, by a fold of the peritoneal lining of the abdomen which is called the falciform ligament. Raise the lower margin of the liver and note that the lower and posterior surfaces of the liver are connected to the stomach by a fold of peritoneum called the small omentum.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 433 Fig. 163.—Interior of Abdomen. Great omentum in situ. Left lolie of liver removed. Pyloric end of stomach and duodenum displaced downwards to show gastro-duodenal artery. Contents of small omentum exposed. 1. Falciform ligament. 2. I.ig. teres. 3. Left hepatic artery. 4. Left hepatic duct. 5. Common hepatic duct. 6. Cystic artery. 7. Fundus of gall-bladder. 8. Cystic duct. 9. Common bile duct. 10. Gastro-duodenal artery. 11. Duodenum, 2nd part. 12. Right gastro-epiploic vessels. 13. Face of section of left lobe of liver. 14. Caudate lobe. 15. l.eft gastric artery. 16. Right hepatic artery. 17. Portal vein. 18. Hepatic artery. 19. Small omentum. 20. Right gastric vessels. 21. Left gastro-epiploic artery. 22. .Stom.acb. 23. Great omentum. VOL. I 28ABDOMEN 434 Fasten the lower border of the anterior surface of the liver to the right costal arch and examine the stomach. Ventriculus (Stomach).—I'he stomach is a pear-shaped organ which lies in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions, partly below and partly to the left side of the liver. Its long axis runs obliquely and is curved upon itself, the bass or fundus of the organ being situated above, behind, and to the left, whilst the apex or pylorus lies lower, more anteriorly, and more to the right. Traced from its highest to its lowest point it runs first forwards and slightly downwards, then to Fig. 164.—Stomach of a Child, two years of age, hardened i?i situ by formalin injection. the right, and finally slightly backwards to its junction with the duodenum or proximal portion of the small intestine. When the left lobe of the liver is pulled upwards and to the right the oesophagus will be found entering the stomach a little to the right of the highest point of the fundus, at the cardiac or oesophageal orifice. From this point the two borders of the stomach can be traced to the pyloric end of the organ. The upper border or small curvature is much the shorter; it runs downwards and to the right in a fairly uniform curve. The great curvature is much longer. First it ascends from the oesophagus to the highest point of the fundus. After crossingABDOMINAL CAVITY 435 the fundus it runs forwards and downwards with a marked convexity to the left; finally it runs to the right and slightly backwards with a convexity downwards. The second portion is frequently spoken of as the left lateral border and the last portion as the lower border of the stomach; the junction of these two parts is commonly the lowest portion of the organ and, when the body is recumbent, it lies on a level with the tips of the tenth costal cartilages, but in the erect posture and when the stomach is full it may descend to a much lower point, even to the level of the umbilicus or still lower. The dissector will find that the small curvature is attached to the lower and posterior surfaces of the liver by a fold of peritoneum which is called the /esser omentum. The part of the great curvature immediately adjacent to the CESophagus is attached to the diaphragm by a peri- toneal fold, the gastro-phrenic ligament., the descending part of the great curvature is attached to the spleen by the gastro- lienal ligament (O.T. gastro-splenic omentum), and the lower part of the great curvature is connected with the transverse colon by the gastro-colic ligament or greater omentum. The first of these connections can be demonstrated by pulling the stomach downwards, the second by pulling it to the right, and the last by raising the great omentum which hangs down from the lower border and turning it upwards over the lower margin of the costal arch. The surfaces of the stomach are an anterior or superior and a posterior or inferior. The latter cannot be seen at the present stage of dissection, it rests on the stomach bed. The anterior is directed upwards and forwards, and the student should note that it is in relation to the left and above with the diaphragm, below with the anterior wall of the abdomen, in the region of the sub- costal angle, and above and to the right with the lower surface of the liver. After examining the stomach the dissector should look for the spleen. Lien (The Spleen).—The spleen cannot be seen, when the abdominal organs are undisturbed, if it is of normal size and is lying in its normal position, but it can easily be felt if the hand is passed backwards round the left margin of the stomach into the back part of the left hypochondriac region, and it can be brought into view by pulling the stomach towards the right side. When this has been done the spleen will be found to be attached to the stomach by the gastro lienal ligament436 ABDOMEN (omentum) and to the anterior surface of the left kidney, which can easily be felt, by a fold of peritoneum called the lieno-renal ligament. At the same time the dissector should note that the lower end of the spleen is supported by an angular bend of the large intestine, called the left colic flexure., and by a fold of peritoneum, the phrenico-colic ligamettt, which connects the flexure with the lower surface of the diaphragm, at the level of the eleventh rib in the mid- axillary line. Anterior angle Intermediate angle Fig. 165,—The Spleen (visceral aspect). Intestinum (The Intestine).—When he has satisfied him- self regarding the general position and attachments of the liver, stomach, and spleen, the dissector should familiarise himself with the parts, position, and the attachments of the intestine. There are two main parts of the intestine, the small and the large, they cannot, however, be distinguished from each other by size alone, for the calibre of each part varies according to the state of contraction or relaxation of its muscular walls. Intestinum Tenue (The Small Intestine) commences at the pyloric end of the stomach, under cover of the liver, which must be raised to expose it. The termination of the stomach and the commencement of the intestine is marked byABDOMINAL CAVITY 437 a thick ring of muscle fibres, the valvula pylon (O.T. pyloric sphincter), and in many cases by a distinct constriction due to the contraction of the sphincter. The first part of the intestine runs backwards from the pylorus to the upper part or neck of the gall-bladder, where it turns downwards and disappears from view behind a portion of the large intestine Fig. i66.—The Abdominal Viscera as seen from the front after removal of the great omentum. The dark lines indicate the subdivision of the abdominal cavity. (Birmingham.) called the transverse colon. To trace it further turn the great omentum upwards over the lower part of the thoracic wall and expose the area below and behind the omentum. The central and greater portion of this area is filled with coils of the small intestine, but at the lateral and upper borders of the area portions of the large intestine are seen. A mere glance is sufficient to distinguish the small from r—28 a438 ABDOMEN the large intestine. The chief points of difference are— (r) The wall of the small intestine is smooth and uniform, whereas the wall of the large intestine is puckered and sacculated. (2) The longitudinal muscle fibres in the wall of the small intestine are distributed uniformly round the tube, but in the large intestine they are collected into three longitudinal bands, tcenice coli, which are separated from each other by intervals and are distinctly visible to the naked eye. These bands are shorter than the tube itself, consequently the walls of the tube are puckered. (3) Attached to the great intestine are the appendices epiploicce. These are small peritoneal pouches, containing fat, which hang from the free border of the gut. The dissector should attempt to pull the small intestine forwards and he will find that it is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum called the mesentery, which runs obliquely downwards and to the right, from the level of the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa. The parts of the large intestine lying to the right of the mass of coils of small intestine are the csecum below and the ascending colon above. The part crossing from side to side, above the small intestine, now that the great omentum is reversed, but which is normally in front of the small intestine, is the transverse colon; it is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum called the transverse meso-colon. The parts to the left of the coils of the small intestine are, from above downwards, the descending colon in the lumbar region, and the iliac colon in the left iliac region. The portion of the small intestine which is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by the mesentery is arbitrarily divided into two parts, an upper two-fifths called jejunum {intestinum jejunum), and a lower three-fifths called ileum (jntesthmm ileum). Pull the jejunum and ileum downwards and to the left and follow the mesentery to its highest point, where the jejunum will be found to become continuous at a distinct fle.xure, the duodeno- jejimal jlexure, with a portion of the small intestine which is not enclosed in the mesentery but which lies behind the peritoneum below the arch of the transverse meso-colon ; this is the terminal part of the first portion of the small intestine, the duodenum. If the dissector will now hold the omentum forwards he will be able to trace the duodenum from theABDOMINAL CAVITY 439 pyloric end of the stomach, first backwards to the neck of the gall-bladder, then downwards behind the transverse colon and meso-colon, to the right of the median plane, and finally from right to left, behind the upper part of the mesentery, to the duodeno-jejunal flexure, where it becomes continuous with the jejunum. He will thus demonstrate the continuity of the three portions of the small intestine. Next he should follow the mesentery downwards into the right iliac fossa, where he will find that the terminal portion of the ileum joins the large intestine, a short distance above the lower end of the latter and on its left side. The portion of the large intestine below the entrance of the ileum is a sac which terminates blindly below and is called the ccecum (intestmum ccecum). Turn the caecum and the lowest part of the ileum upwards and to the right to expose the vermiform process, which springs from the medial and posterior aspect of the caecum a short distance below the ileo-caecal junction. The caecum is continuous above with the ascending colon, which must be traced upwards to the right hypochondriac region where, under cover of the anterior part of the lower surface of the liver, it joins the transverse colon at an angular bend, the right colic flexure of the colon (O.T. hepatic flexure). The transverse colon extends across the abdomen from the right to the left hypochondriac region, forming a bold curve with the convexity directed downwards and forwards. It is connected to the stomach by the great omentum and to the posterior wall of the abdomen by the transverse meso-colon. It is exposed when the omentum is turned upwards over the lower part of the costal arch and it will be found to terminate, immediately below the lower extremity of the spleen, by joining the descending colon at a second angular bend, the left colic flexure of the colon (O.T. splenic flexure). The descending colon passes downwards through the left lumbar region, and at the level of the iliac crest it becomes the iliac colon which runs downwards and medially across the left iliac region, parallel with the inguinal ligament, to the brim of the true pelvis, where it becomes the pelvic colon. To expose the pelvic colon lift the coils of small intestine out of the pelvis. It will then be found that the pelvic colon either runs first across to the right side of the pelvis, above the bladder, then back to the left side, and finally downwards and medially to the third piece of the sacrum, where it becomes continuous with theABDOMEN 440 rectum; or that the first loop, instead of lying on the upper surface of the bladder, hangs down into the pelvis close to its left lateral wall. The rectum commences at the termina- tion of the pelvic colon and runs downwards and forwards to end in the anal canal. Only its upper part can be seen at present, the lower part being concealed by the bladder (see Fig. 171). If the subject is a female the uterus will be found occupy- ing the central part of the pelvi.s. It lies between the rectum behind, and the bladder in front, and is connected on each side to the lateral wall of the pelvis by a fold of peritoneum called the broad ligament (see Figs. 171 and 247). The dissector should notice that the caecum presents the appearance of a blind diverticulum surrounded on all sides by peritoneum ; that the transverse colon and the pelvic colon are attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen by folds of peritoneum called mesenteries; that the vermiform process is attached to the posterior surface of the mesentery of the ileum by a fold of peritoneum called the meso-appendix or mesetitery of the appendix, and that the remaining parts of the large intestine are not, as a rule, provided with mesenteries, but that they lie against the posterior wall of the abdomen, projecting forwards against the peritoneum which covers them only anteriorly and on either side. After he has familiarised himself with the positions, continuity, and attachments of the various parts of the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal the dissector should proceed to locate the kidneys. Throw the omentum upwards, pull the small intestine downwards and to the right, and examine the concavity of the left colic flexure, where a considerable part of the lower portion of the left kidney can be seen and felt, lying behind the peritoneum. Pull the small intestine over to the left and downwards, examine the con- cavity of the right colic flexure, and note that only a small part of the lower portion of the right kidney can be felt and seen in this situation, behind the peritoneum. Replace the small intestine and the omentum, pull the liver upwards and to the right, and the greater part of the upper portion of the right kidney will be exposed or can be felt in the region immediately above the right colic flexure. Re- place the liver and pass the hand backwards into the posterior part of the left hypochondrium to the back of441 ABDOMINAL CAVI'l'Y the spleen, and palpate the upper and lateral part of the left kidney as it lies against the diaphragm. The positions and connections of the various viscera must now be studied in greater detail. Commence with the consideration of the liver. Hepar (The Liver).—The liver has already been seen crossing the costal angle and projecting below the right costal margin. It is the largest gland in the body, and is a solid pliant organ, which occupies a large part of the Coronary ligament Fk;. 167.—Anterior Surface of the Liver. epigastric and right hypochondriac regions, and smaller portions of the left hypochondriac and right lumbar regions. It is almost entirely surrounded by the peritoneal lining of the abdomen. The portions which can be investigated, at the present stage of dissection are smooth to the touch, and they present a smooth and glistening appearance. The dissector should pass his hand over the surfaces of the organ and he will find that it has the form of an irregular four- sided pyramid. The base of the pyramid lies to the right, where it is in contact with the diaphragm, from the level of the seventh to the level of the eleventh rib in the mid-ABDOMEN 442 axillary line. The flattened apex lies to the left, at the level of the left sixth rib in or near to the left lateral plane. The anterior and superior surfaces are smooth and convex. The anterior is attached to the anterior abdominal wall, and the superior to the under surface of the diaphragm, by a fold of peritoneum, the falciform ligament, which separates each surface into a smaller left and a larger right portion, the right and left lobes of the liver. The anterior surface is triangular in outline. It passes gradually, over rounded and indistinct borders, into the superior surface and the base, but it is separated from the inferior surface by a sharp and definite margin. Its left and right portions are in contact with the diaphragm, and the intermediate part is in contact with the anterior wall of the abdomen in the region of the subcostal angle. Its position can be indicated on the surface by three lines, (i) The first commences at the level of the left sixth rib in the left lateral plane, and ends to the' level of the right sixth rib midway between the right lateral plane and the right border of the body. (2) The second commences at the same point as the first and passes obliquely downwards and to the right to the tip of the tenth right costal cartilage. (3) The third connects the right extremities of the first and second. The superior surface is accurately adapted to the lower surface of the diaphragm, which separates it from the lungs and pleurae, and from the heart and pericardium. Immedi- ately below the heart it is slightly concave, but to the right and left of the cardiac concavity it is markedly convex, and more convex on the right than on the left side. Pass the hand backwards over the upper surface of the right lobe and note that in the right lateral plane it rises to the level of the ^ fourth intercostal space, and even to the lower border of the fourth rib. * Pass the hand still further back over the upper surface, ^ and note that at the junction of the superior and posterior surfaces a layer of peritoneum, the upper layer of the coronary ^ j liga?nent, passes from the liver to the diaphragm. Carry the fingers to the right along the coronary ligament round to the . ‘ base where, at the junction of the base with the posterior surface, a triangular fold of peritoneum, the right triangular ligament, will be found, connecting the liver with the diaphragm. Now pass the hand over the upper surface of the i443 ABDOMINAL CAVITY left lobe, and note that before the posterior border is reached the fingers are carried up to the diaphragm by a triangular fold of peritoneum, the left triangular ligametit (see* Fig. 200). Examine the lower border of the anterior surface, note that it is cleft at the lower margin of the attachment of the falciform ligament by a notch, the umbilical notch. Through this, between the right and left lobes, the ligamentum teres, which lies in the rounded lower margin of the falciform ligament, passes into the umbilical fossa on the lower surface of the liver. Further to the right, in or near to the right lateral plane and opposite the lip of the ninth right costal cartilage, the fundus of the gall-bladder projects below the liver in the majority of cases. Raise the lower margin of the liver and examine the loiver surface. It looks downwards, backwards, and to the left, and over the whole of its extent it is in contact with other vi.scera; on this account it is frequently called the visceral surface. It conceals the upper and right portion of the anterior surface of the stomach, the first and the upper part of the second portion of the duodenum, the lesser omentum, the greater part of the gall-bladder •, to the right of the gall-bladder it is in relation, posteriorly, with a large portion of the anterior surface of the right kidney, and, more anteriorly, with the right j:olic flexure (see Fig. T69). It is divided into right and left portions by a fossa, the . umbilical fossa, which contains the ligamentum teres. This fossa extends from the umbilical notch in the lower border of the anterior surface to the junction of the inferior and posterior surfaces, where it becomes continuous with the fossa for the ductus venosus. Trace the lesser omentum upwards to the lower surface of the liver, and note that it is attached to the margin of a fissure which extends from the neck or uppermost part of the gall-bladder on the right to the umbilical fos.sa on the left; this is the porta hepalis or transverse fissure. It lies at the junction of the inferior with the posterior surface. Note, further, that the upper border of the lesser omentum is continued upwards on the posterior surface of the liver, where it is attached to the margins of the fossa for the ductus venosus. The posterior surface, which is largely in relation with the diaphragm, cannot be conveniently examined at present (see Fig. 200).444 ABDOMEN Vesica Fellea (The Gall-Bladder).—Pull the liver upwards and to the right and examine the position, the attachments, and the connections of the gall-bladder. It is a small pyriform sac, with a capacity of from one to two ounces. It lies in the right hypochondriac region close to the right lateral plane. Its lower extremity or fundus projects below the lower margin of the anterior surface of the liver, at the level of the right ninth costal cartilage, in the right lateral plane and immediately to the right of the lateral border of the right rectus abdominis muscle. From this point the body of the organ runs upwards, backwards, and to the left, to the right extremity of the porta hepatis, where a constricted portion of its upper end, called the 7ieck, becomes continuous with the cystic duct which connects the gall-bladder with the common bile-duct. The upper and anterior surface of the body of the gall-bladder is embedded in a sulcus on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, which is called the fossa for the gall- bladder, and it is attached to the liver by areolar tissue and by a number of small veins which pass from the gall-bladder into the sub- stance of the liver, where they com- municate with branches of the portal vein. The fundus and the lower or posterior surface are covered with peritoneum, and the lower surface is in contact, posteriorly and above, with the first and second parts of the duodenum, and below with the transverse colon. The cystic duct is enclosed in the right extremity of the upper border of the small omentum. CYST. DUCT. Fig. i68. — Diagram of the Cystic and Hepatic Ducts. (From Gegenbaur, modified.) Dissection.—Make a longitudinal incision tlirougli the lower surface of the gall-bladder from the fundus to the neck and examine the strueture of its walls and its lining membrane. In addition to its partial serous cover- ing it has (i) a strong coat composed of muscular and white fibrous tissue, and (2) an internal mucous coat. The mucous membrane is stained green by the bile and it presents a honeycombed appearance, being raised into numerous ridges which surround polygonal depressions ; in the neck the ridges assume a spiral form and constitute the so-called spiral valve of Ileister which is continued into the cystic duct. To olitain a satisfactory view of the lesser omentum and its contents the left lobe of the liver must lie removed. Cut through it from before back-ABDOMINAL CAVITY 445 wards, immediately to the left of the line of attachment of the falciform ligament. On the lower surface the knife must be carried backwards along the umbilical fossa, close to its left margin, and it must emerge on the . posterior surface in the fossa for the ductus venosus and close to the left margin of that fossa (see Fig. 170). The portion of liver removed must be carefully preserved so that it may afterwards be reattached to the right lobe. Omentum Minus (The Lesser Omentum).—The lesser omentum is a fold of peritoneum which connects the lesser curvature of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum with the margins of the porta hepatis (O.T. transverse fissure) on the lower surface of the liver, and with the margins of the fossa for the ductus venosus on the posterior surface. Its lower and left margin is attached to the stomach and duodeum ; its upper margin is attached to the liver; and its right border is free and forms the anterior boundary of an aperture, the foramen efiploicum (O.T. foramen of Winslow), which connects the cavity of the larger part of the peritoneal sac, the greater sac, with the smaller part, the bursa omentalis. The guide to this aperture is the gall-bladder, and if the dissector carries his finger upwards and backwards along the lower surface of the gall- bladder to its neck, and then turns it backwards and to the left he will find that it passes through the epiploic foramen into the omental bursa. The lesser omentum contains a large number of important structures. Two of the arteries which supply the stomach, the hepatic artery and the portal vein which carry blood to the liver, the bile ducts through which the bile is conducted to the duodenum, and numerous nerves, lymph vessels, and lymph glands lie between its layers. The dissector should now display these structures by removing the anterior layer of the fold. It is not probable that he will be able to remove it in a continuous sheet, but he must take care not to destroy the posterior layer. Disseclion.—Commence at the upper border of the stomach, immediately below the oesophagus, and expose the left gastric artery, follow this down- wards to its ana.stomosis with the right gastric branch of the hepatic artery, and upwards to the point at which it gives off its oesophageal branch ; trace the latter along the oesophagus to the diaphragm. Remove the peritoneum from the front of the oesophagus and find the left vagus nei-ve, which descends on the front of the lower end of the oesophagus. Trace the terminal branches of the nerve to the wall of the stomach and into the lesser omentum. Whilst cleaning the left gastric artery the dissector may possibly see some of i\\c cardiac lymph glands of the stomach at the upperABDOMEN 446 Fig. 169.—Interior of Abdomen. Great omentum in situ. Left lobe of liver removed. Pyloric end of stomach and duodenum displaced downwards to show gastro-duodenal artery. Contents of small omentum exposed. 1. Falciform ligament. 2. Lig. teres. 3. Left hepatic arterj'. 4. Left hepatic duct. 5. Common hepatic duct. 6. Cystic artery. 7. Fundus of gall-bladder. 8. Cystic duct. 9. Common bile duct. 10. Castro-duodenal artery. 11. Duodenum, 2nd part. 12. Right g.astro-epiploic vessels. 13. Face of section of left lobe of liver. 14. Caudate lobe. 15. l.eft gastric artery. 16. Right hepatic artery. 17. Portal vein. 18. Hepatic artery. 19. Small omentum. 20. Right gastric vessels. 21. Left gastro-epiploic arterj-. 22. Stomach. 23. (-Ireat omentum.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 447 extremity of the small curvature. Trace the right gastric artery to its origin from the hepatic artery and follow the latter upwards, in the right border of the lesser omentum, to its division into right and left branches immediately below the porta hepatis. On the walls of the artery some of the fibres of the hepatic plexus of sympathetic nerves may be recognised, and at its side some of the hepatic lymph glands may be seen. Clean both terminal branches of the hepatic artery carefully, especially the right branch which passes either anterior or posterior to the hepatic duct. To the right of the hepatic artery find the common bile duct, trace it downwards to the point where it dis- appears behind the first part of the duodenum and upwards to the upper border of the lesser omentum, where it is formed by the union of the commo7i hepatic duct with the cystic.diut. Follow the cystic duct to the neck of the gall-bladder, noting that it makes an S-shaped bend. Continue the incision already made in the gall-bladder into the cystic duct and note that the spiral arrangement of the mucous membrane is continued into the duct. Follow the common hepatic duct upwards into the porta hepatis, to the point • where it is formed by the union of the right and left hepatic ducts which come respectively from the right and left lobes of the liver. Clean away the fascia from between the hepatic artery and the common bile duct and display the portal vem which lies behind them. Trace it upwards to its division into right and left branches, at the porta hepatis, and downwards to the first part of the duodenum where it disappears from view at the present stage of dissection. Note that the portal vein lies immediately in front of the epiploic foramen (Winslow) and that its posterior surface is covered by the peritoneum of the anterior margin of the foramen. Omentum Majus (The Greater Omentum).—After he has displayed and studied the structures situated between the two layers of the small omentum the dissector should examine the greater omentum. It hangs down, like an apron, before the viscera which lie in the lower part of the abdomen. It is a double fold of peritoneum and consists, therefore, of two anterior and two posterior layers, the former being separated from the latter by a portion of the cavity of the omental bursa. The upper margins of the two anterior layers are attached to the lower part of the great curvature of the stomach, where they become continuous with the peritoneum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of that viscus. To the left and above, the two anterior layers are continuous with the two layers of the gastro-lienal ligament, but at a lower level the two anterior layers become continuous with the two posterior layers at the free left border. Similarly at the lower and the right margins of the greater omentum the two anterior become continuous with the two posterior layers. The upper margins of the two posterior layers are attached H to the lower border of the transverse colon, and, through the i peritoneum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the P latter, they become continuous with the two layers of the trans- I verse meso-colon, which attaches the transverse colon to theABDOMEN 448 structures lying on the posterior wall of the abdomen. The contents of the greater omentum are—(i) a portion of the cavity of the omental bursa which separates the two anterior from the two posterior layers; (2) between the two anterior layers, along the lower border of the stomach, the right and left gastro-epiploic blood vessels and their branches with lymph vessels and small lymph glands ; (3) between the two posterior layers small branches of the middle colic artery which have crossed the surfaces of the transverse colon and are descending into the lower border of the greater omentum where, in very favourable circumstances, they anastomose with descending branches of the gastro-epiploic arteries. Dissection.—Clear away the anterior of the two anterior layers of the greater omentum along the lower border of the stomach and expose the gastro-epiploic arteries. Trace the left artery to the left to the gastro-lienal ligament, and note that it passes forwards to the stomach between the two layers of the ligament. At a later stage it will be followed to the splenic artery from which it springs. Trace the right artery to the right to the point where it springs from the gastro-duodenal artery at the lower border of the first part of the duodenum. Remove the two anterior layers of the greater omentum (see Fig. 170). This part of the dissection is not always easy to accomplish, for not un- commonly the posterior of the two anterior layers is fused with the anterior of the two posterior layers, the lower part of the cavity of the omental bursa being obliterated ; but if the dissector commences near the left end of the lower border of the stomach he will usually find the cavity persistent. First he should pull the lower border of the stomach forwards and cut through the two anterior layers of the omentum below the left gastro-epiploic artery ; next he should introduce his fingers through the opening and gradually separate the two anterior from the two posterior layers, then he must enlarge the opening and after separating the anterior from the posterior layers as far as possible he must cut away the anterior layers. After this portion of the dissection is completed he must introduce one hand into the cavity of the omental bursa and he will find that he can pass it upwards behind the stomach and behind the posterior surface of the lesser omentum to the liver. If now he turns his fingers to the right he will be able to pass them behind the portal vein and through the epiploic foramen (Winslow) into the great sac. He should note as he passes his hand upwards that the cavity of the small sac is constricted, between the oesophagus above and to the right and the pylorus below and to the left, by two folds of peritoneum which pass forwards from the posterior wall of the abdomen to the oesophagus and the pylorus respectively. He will find, at a later stage of the dissection, that these folds are connected with the peritoneum on tlie anterior surface of the pancreas ; they are therefore called the left and right pancreatico-gastric folds. The left is produced by the left gastric artery as it passes round the left border of the sac to gain entrance into the lesser omentum, and the right is produced by the hepatic artery as it turns round the right margin of the sac at the lower border of the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Next remove the posterior layer of the lesser omentum and so open into the upper part of the omental bursa, but take care not to injure the contents449 Fig. 170.—Dissection of Abdomen. The left lobe of the liver is removed. The greater part of the anterior fold of the great omentum has been removed ; the gastro-hepatic omentum has been detached from the liver, and the stomach has been divided close to the pylorus and turned upwards and to the left. The cavity of the omental bursa is displayed and a portion of its posterior wall has been removed. 1. Cut .surface of left lobe of liver. 2. Falciform lig. 3. Lig. teres. 4. Left hepatic artery. 5. Right hepatic artery. 6. Common hepatic duct. 7. Cystic duct. 8. Fundus of gall-bladder. 9. Common bile duct. 10. Duodenum, junction of ist and 2nd parts. M. Transverse colon. 12. Cut edge of anterior wall of omental bursa. 13. Stomach. 14. Part of great omentum. 15. Cut edge of g.xstro-hepatic omentum. t6. Gastro-hepatic omentum. VOL. I 29 17. Caudate lobe of liver. 18. Stomach. 19. Left pancreatico-gastric fold. 20. Left gastric artery. 21. Right inferior phrenic artery. 22. Hepatic artery in right pancreatico- gastric fold. 23. Pancreas. 24. Left gastro-epiploic artery. 25. Splenic artery. 26. Gastro-duotlenal artery. 27. .Superior pancreatico-duodenal .artery. 28. Right gastro-epiploic artery. 29. Transverse meso-colon. 30. Posterior wall of omenttd bursa. 31. Anterior two l.ayers of great omen- tum.ABDOMEN 45° of the lesser omentum. First cut through the posterior layer along the left border of the hepatic artery, then carry the incision upwards along the margin of the fossa for the ductus venosus. Finally cut through the posterior layer for a short distance along the lesser curvature of the stomach, above the left gastric artery^ and turn the separated portion of the posterior layer of the lesser omentum to the left over the stomach. Again introduce the hand from the lower part into the upper part of the omental bursa and examine again the constriction of the cavity between the oesophageal and pyloric ends of the stomach and the pancreatico-gastric folds which cause it. It is not possible to make a thorough examination of the cavity of the omental bursa till the stomach, which lies in its anterior wall, has been turned aside. Divide the right gastric artery and the right gastro-epiploic artery immediately to the left of the pylorus, then cut through the stomach in the same situation and turn it over to the left side. The greater part of the anterior wall of the omental bursa is now removed, and the cavity and the remaining boundaries can be examined. The Cavity of the Omental Bursa extends from the lower margin of the greater omentum below to the liver above, and a narrow, pouch-like recess is prolonged upwards, behind the liver, to the under surface of the diaphragm. The posterior wall of the sac is formed from below upwards by the two posterior layers of the great omentum, the transverse colon, covered by peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, and, above the line of attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the posterior abdominal wall, by the upper of the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, the so-called ascending layer,'’’ which passes upwards, in front of the pancreas, the upper and medial part of the left kidney, the left suprarenal gland and the crura of the diaphragm, to the under surface of the diaphragm from which it is reflected forwards to the upper part of the posterior surface of the liver. The outline of the pancreas can be seen through the thin peritoneum and the kidney, and the supra- renal glands, if not visible, are easily felt. The narrow, pouch-like upper portion of the cavity of the omental bursa is bounded behind, as already stated, by the peritoneum on the abdominal surface of the crura of the diaphragm; above by the reflection of the peritoneum forwards to the posterior surface of the liver; in front by the peritoneum on the posterior surface of a small subdivision of the posterior aspect of the right lobe of the liver called the caudate lobe (O.T. Spigelian); on the left by the reflection of the posterior layer of the small omentum from the margin of the fossa for the ductus venosus to the crura of the diaphragm ; and to the right by the reflection of the peritoneum from the right crus of the diaphragm to the right lateral margin of the caudate lobe.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 451 This recess, when the body is recumbent, is the most dependent part of the omental bursa. The anterior wall of the omental bursa is formed, from above downwards, by the peritoneum on the posterior surface of the caudate lobe of the liver, the lesser omentum, the peritoneum on the posterior surface of the stomach, and by the anterior two layers of the greater omentum. The left lateral boundary is formed in the region of the uppermost recess by the reflection of the peritoneum from the margin of the fissure for the ductus venosus to the crura of the diaphragm, at a lower level, posteriorly, by the lieno-renal ligament, which passes from the left kidney to the spleen (see Fig. 172), and anteriorly by the gastro-lienal ligament which connects the spleen with the stomach ; and at a still lower level by the union of the two anterior with the two posterior layers of the greater omentum at the left free border of the omentum (Fig. 173). The splenic artery runs forwards in the left lateral wall, between the layers of the lieno-renal ligament, and the short gastric branches and the left gastro- epiploic branch of the splenic artery run onwards to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-lienal ligament. The right lateral wall is formed, from below upwards, by the union of the two anterior with the two posterior layers of the greater omentum at its right free border (Fig. 170). Next by the reflection of the posterior of the two anterior layers backwards from the posterior surface of the first part of the duodenum to the front of the pancreas, where it be- comes continuous with the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon (Fig. 173). Immediately above the duodenum the right boundary is absent and the small sac communicates with the great sac through the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Above the epiploic foramen the right margin of the small sac is formed, in the upper recess, by the reflection of the peritoneum from the right border of the caudate lobe (Spigelian) of the liver to the right crus of the diaphragm. The hepatic artery turns round the right border of the sac immediately behind the upper border of the first part of the duodenum, producing the right pancreatico-gastric fold previously mentioned. The Great Sac of the Peritoneum.—After he has made himself thoroughly conversant with the cavity of the omental bursa the dissector should study the cavity of the great sac. It is the cavity into which he opened when he cut through452 ABDOMEN the abdominal walls to display the interior of the abdomen. It extends from the diaphragm above to the pelvic floor below (Fig. 171), across the abdomen from one lateral wall to the other (Fig. 174), and it is divided by the lower part of Uterus Urinary Bladder -* Great omentum Epiploic foramen (O.T. foramen of Winslow) Rectum Small omentum • Stomach Omental bursa (O.T. small sac) Great sac .Liver .Pancreas Duodenum, 3rd part Transverse colon Mesentery of small intestine Small intestine Fig. 171.—Sagittal section of Abdomen showing cavities. the wall of the omental bursa, that is, by the greater omentum, the transverse colon, and the transverse meso-colon, into an upper and anterior, and a lower and posterior part, which are continuous with each other round the borders of the greater omentum (see Fig. 174). The upper and anterior part of the sac extends upwards to the lower surface of the diaphragm, where it intervenes between the liver and the diaphragm, andABDOMINAL CAVITY 453 where it is separated into two lateral parts by the falciform ligament. The right lateral part of the upper portion extends backwards, between the liver and the diaphragm, to the coronary ligament which separates the upper surface of the right lobe of the liver from the posterior surface (Fig. 200): the left lateral part of the upper end of the sac passes backwards over the upper surface of the left lobe of the liver Fig. 172.—Transverse Section of Abdomen at level of Epiploic Foramen. 1. Omental bursa (O.T. small sac). 2. Omental tubercle of liver. 3. Great sac. 4. Stomach. 5. Gastro - splenic ligament (O.T. ga.stro*splenic omentum). 6. Spleen. 7. Lieno-renal ligament. 8. Left kidney. 9. Diaphragm. 10. Aorta. IT. Inferior vena cava. 12. Ri^ht kidney. 13. P3pipIoic foramen (O.T. foramen of 14. Liver. IWinslow). 15. Gall bladder. 16. Common bile duct. 17. Portal vein. 18. Hepatic artery. 19. Falciform ligament. to the left triangular ligament. Below the falciform ligament the upper and anterior part of the great sac extends, as a continuous cavity, from side to side, and it projects back- wards, on each side, deeply into the hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac regions (see Figs. 172 and 173). The back- ward extensions of the great sac form two deep gutters, one on each side, in which collections of fluid may become lodged when the body is lying recumbent. The lateral boundary of each of the gutter-like recesses is the lateral454 ABDOMEN wall of the abdomen, formed superiorly by the diaphragm, which separates the peritoneal gutters from the lower parts of the pleural sacs, and inferiorly by the flat muscles of the abdomen. The medial wall of the right gutter is formed by the right kidney and the ascending colon (see Figs. 173 and 174), and the medial wall of the left gutter by the 1 20 9 10 II 12 13 Fig. 173.—Transverse Section of Abdomen immediately below Epiploic Foramen. 1. Omental bursa (O.T. small one). 2. Stomach. 3. Great sac. 4. Great sac. 5. Gastro-splenic ligament (O.T. gastro- splenic omentum). 6. Lieno-renal ligament. 7. Left kidney. 8. Pancreas. 9. Left suprarenal gland. 10. Aorta. II. Portal vein. 12. Inferior vena cava. 13. Right suprarenal gland. 14. Right kidney. 15. Great sac. 16. Common bile duct. 17. Gastro-duodenal artery. 18. Liver. 19. Duodenum, ist part. 20. Falciform ligament. lieno-renal ligament and left kidney above and by the descend- ing colon below (see Figs. 173 and 174). The dissector should pass his hand from above down- wards along each of these lateral gutters of the anterior part of the great sac and he will find that each is divided by a transverse fold of the peritoneal wall into an upper and a lower part, but the division occurs at very different levels on the opposite sides. On the left side the fold which separates the upper from the lower part of the left gutter is the phrenico-colic ligament, which lies at the level of the eleventh455 ABDOMINAL CAVITY rib in the mid-axillary line. On the right side the dividing fold is placed much lower and is frequently less distinct. It passes from the side wall of the abdomen, in the upper part of the iliac region, to the lateral wall of the lower part of the ascending colon. The lateral gutters and the folds which divide them are of importance because they tend to localise abnormal collections of blood or inflammatory Fig. 174.—Transverse section of .Abdomen through the fourth lumbar vertebne. 1. Small intestine. 2. Great omentum and omental bursa. 3« Descending colon. 4. Aorta. 5. Inferior vena cava. 6. Ascending colon. 7. Great sac. 8. Omental bursa (O.T. small sac), g. Great sac. 10. Mesentery. effusions which may be in the cavity of the great sac, and the dissector should note that in the recumbent posture the lowest part of each lateral gutter is situated at the level of the upper part of the kidney in the region of the last intercostal space. The upper portion of the posterior part of the cavity of the great sac, the part behind the greater omentum, is also divided, in the upper part of its extent, into lateral parts, by the mesentery of the small intestine, which runs obliquely from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa.ABDOMEN 4S6 The upper boundary of each lateral half of the posterior and lower part of the cavity of the great sac is the transverse meso-colon (Fig. 171). The lateral boundary on the right is the ascending colon and on the left the descending colon (Fig. 174). The lateral gutter of the right part of the Urinary ]>Iadder Spleen anterior ang. Left colic (0.1 splenic flexu Transverse meso-colon , Pelvic colon Liver Csccum Stomach Duodenum Descending. colon Root of mesenterj^ci Pelvic meso colon Attachment of falciform ligament Tenth rib Vermiform process Ileum Oall- Right colic flexure (O-T. hepatic flexure) Duodenum Fig. 175.—Abdominal viscera after removal of jejunum and ileum. (Birmingham.) posterior portion of the great sac terminates below at the union of the ileum with the large intestine (see Fig. 175), and the lateral gutter on the left side is continued downwards into the pelvis between the mesentery of the small intestine and the mesentery of the pelvic colon. The lower portion of the posterior part of the cavity of the great sac lies upon the floor of the pelvis and, in the male,ABDOMINAL CAVITY 457 forms three definite pouches: a median recto-vesical pouch, bounded in front by the bladder and behind by the rectum and laterally, on each side, by a sacro-genital fold of peritoneum, which passes from the region of the fundus of the bladder, past the side of the rectum, to the sacrum. Each of the two lateral pouches is bounded medially by the side of the bladder and the sacro-genital fold, and laterally by the side wall of the pelvis. In the female the median recto- vesical pouch of the male is divided, by the interposition of the uterus and the upper part of the vagina, into a larger posterior part, the recto-uterine pouch {pouch of Douglas)^ and a smaller anterior part, the utero-vesical pouch ; and the broad ligament which connects the lateral border of the uterus with the side wall of the pelvis divides each of the single lateral pouches present in the male into an anterior or paravesical part, and a posterior part, the lateral pouch of Douglas, in which the ovary and the termination of the oviduct are situated. Peritoneum. — The peritoneum is the great serous membrane which forms the wall of the peritoneal cavity. Externally it is blended with the subserous or extra-peritoneal tissue of the abdomen through which the vessels and nerves of the abdomen pass to their terminations. Internally it is covered with a flat glistening epithelium. In the male the cavity of the peritoneal sac is closed; that is, it does not communicate with the exterior of the body. In the female, on the other hand, it does communicate with the exterior through the female genital passages, the oviducts, the uterus, and the vagina. In neither sex, however, is it an entirely closed sac, for in both it is in direct communication with the lymph vessels, by numerous minute openings which exist on the lower surface of the diaphragm, and in other regions of the wall of the sac, and it is on this account that fluids, and fluid-borne micro-organisms which have gained entrance into the cavity of the peritoneum, pass so readily into the lymph, and thence into the general blood stream. When the abdomen was opened the cavity of the peritoneum was also opened, and the dissector’s attention was drawn to the smooth and glistening appearance of the inner surface of the serous membrane, which is due to the lining epithelium. He must have noted, as the examination of the cavity proceeded, that the peritoneum gave more or458 ABDOMEN less complete coverings to the various abdominal viscera, and that its posterior wall was raised into numerous complicated folds. The folds are due to the invagination of the wall of the sac by the adjacent viscera, and the complication of the folds has been produced by changes in form and position of the viscera, and by the fusion and partial disappearance of some of the primitive folds. The portion of the peritoneum which lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall is called parietal peritoneum. The portion which covers the viscera is termed “ visceral peritoneu7nP and the folds which connect the viscera with each other or with the wall of the abdomen are defined as omenta, mesenteries, and ligaments. The term mesentery is generally applied to folds of peri- toneum which connect portions of the alimentary canal with the posterior wall of the abdomen. The term “ omentum ” has usually been applied, in English terminology, to folds of peritoneum which connect the stomach with other viscera, and the term ligament was applied to any fold which did not fall into either of the two first divisions. Now, however, it is becoming customary to speak of folds and portions of folds which connect the stomach to adjacent viscera as ligaments; thus the lesser omentum is said to consist of the hepato-gastric and the hepato-duodenal ligaments, the two terms being applied respectively to the parts which connect the liver to the stomach and the liver to the duodenum. The gastro-lienal omentum becomes the gastro-lienal ligament, and the greater omentum is sometimes spoken of as the gastro-colic ligament. The relations of the layers of the visceral and parietal peritoneum to each other, and the relations of the layers which bound the omental bursa to those which limit the cavity of the great sac to each other, can be easily followed in Figs. 171, 172, 173, and 174. The dissector should study the figures and confirm their accuracy by following the peritoneum at the levels, and in the planes indicated in them. Dissection.—After examining the various parts of the peritoneal cavity, and the different folds of the peritoneal membrane, the dissector should remove the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the omental bursa, above the level of the root of the transverse meso-colon. Commence immediately above the line of attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the lower border of the pancreas, which can be seen through the thin peritoneum, and work upwards, taking care not to injure either the pancreas itself or459 ABDOMINAL CAVITY Fig. 176.— Dissection of the Abdomen. Ihe left lobe of tlie liver, the stomach, the gastro-hepatic omentum, the great omentum, and the transverse colon have been removed. The greater part of the posterior wall of the omental bursa has been dis- sected away, and the peritoneum and extra-peritoneal fat have been removed from the posterior wall of the 1. Cut surface of left lobe of liver. 2. Falciform ligament. 3. I.igatncntuin teres. 4. Caudate lobe. 5. Left hepatic artery. 6. Right hepatic artery. 7. Hepatic duct. 8. Portal vein. 9. b'undus of gall-bladder. 10. Cystic duct. 11. Common bile duct. 13. Duodemim, ist part. 13. Gustro-duodenal artery. 14. Su^rior pancrcatico-duo- (R*nal cavity. 15. Right gastro-cpif>Ioic artery. 16. Duodenum. 3iid part. 17. Inferior vena cava. 18. Right colic flerxurc. wer part of the abdomen. 19. Psoas muscle. 20. Spermatic vessel crossing ureter. 31. Common trunk of ilco-colic ami right colic arteries. 22. Genito-fcmf)ral nerve. 33. Right common iliac artery. 34. Midflle sacral vessels. 25. C.*ccum. 36. Ileum. 37. Venuiform process. 28. Pelvic colon. 39. Cut edge of gastro-hepatic omentum. 30. (Ksophagus. 31. Left crus of diaphragm. 32. Right crus of diaphragm. ;13. I-eft inferior phrirnic arierj*. 34. I.i’ft gastric artery. 35. Right inferior phrenicartery. 36. Spleen. 37. I’ancrcaSi 38. Left gastro-opiploic artery. 39. Splenic artery. 40. Left colic flexure. 41. Duodcno-jejunal flexure. 42. Middle colic artery. 43. I.eft kidney. 44. Inferior mesenteric vein. 45. 1,eft colic artery. 46. Psoas muscle. 47. Inferior mesenteric artery. 48. Sijermatic vessels. 49. Ureter. 50. Sigmoid arteries. 51. (fcnilo-femoral nerve. 52. Superior luemorrhoidal arliTy. 53. Iliac colon.ABDOMEN 460 the blood-vessels which lie behind the posterior wall of the upper part of the omental bursa. Remove also the medial layer of the gastro - lienal ligament, and the medial layer of the lieno-renal ligament. The object of this dissection is to display—(i) the anterior surface of the body, the neck, and part of the head of the pancreas ; (2) a part of the anterior surface of the left kidney ; (3) the anterior surface of the left suprarenal gland ; (4) the left coeliac ganglion and the left great splanchnic nerve; (S) the upper part of the abdominal portion of the aorta ; (6) the coeliac artery and its branches, the hepatic, the splenic, and the left gastric artery, and their branches ; (7) the inferior phrenic arteries ; (8) the upper parts of the crura of the diaphragm ; (9) the terminal part of the right vagus nerve. Clean the pancreas first, and do not disturb it from its position. At the upper border of the pancreas, in the median plane and below the caudate lobe of the liver, find the termination of the coeliac artery, dividing into its three terminal branches '; the hepatic running to the right, the splenic to the left along the upper border, or immediately behind the upper border of the pancreas, and the left gastric running upwards and to the left to the junction of the oesophagus with the stomach. Trace the first portion of the hepatic artery, through the right pancreatico-gastric fold, to the right free margin of the omentum, where it has already been exposed, and if possible preserve the sympathetic nerve filaments which surround it. Secure its gastro-duodenal branch, which descends behind the first part of the duodenum and in front of the neck of the pancreas, and trace it to its division into the superior pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-efiploic arteries. Trace the latter to the left to the point where the stomach was divided. Trace the splenic artery to the left, to the anterior surface of the left kidney, and then forwards, along the left layer of the lieno-renal ligament, which is still in situ, to the spleen, and note that before it reaches the spleen it gives off a number of small gastric branches, and the left gastro-epiploic artery, which run forwards to the stomach, along the left layer of the gastro-lienal ligament, which is also still in position. Note, further, that the splenic artery breaks up into branches before it reaches the spleen. In many cases the small gastric branches and the left gastro- epiploic artery spring from the terminal branches, and not from Jhe trunk of the splenic artery. Secure also the branches from the splenic artery to the pancreas, and if possible preserve the sympathetic nerve plexus which surrounds the artery. Follow the left gastric artery, through the left pancreatico-gastric fold, to the junction of the oesophagus with the stomach, where the artery gives off its oesophageal branch or branches ; secure also the accompanying vein, the coronary vein of the stomach, and trace it, across the median plane, to its union with the portal vein at the lower end of the right free margin of the lesser omentum. Trace the cceliac ai'tery back- wards to its origin from the front of the aorta, and do not injure the plexus of sympathetic nerve filaments which surrounds it. Immediately to the left of the coeliac artery, and at the upper border of the pancreas, find the left cceliac ganglion, which is connected with the plexus of nerves round the root of the coeliac artery. Follow the ganglion upwards and back- wards to its union with the left great splanchnic nerve. Immediately to the left of the ganglion find the left suprarenal gland, and below it the upper and medial part of the anterior surface of the left kidney. Find the inferior phrenic arteries, one on each side, immediately above the level of the coeliac artery, trace each medially to the aorta, and laterally across the surface of the corresponding crus ; note that the left passes behind the oesophagus ; the right passes behind the inferior vena cava, although this fact cannot be demonstrated until a later period. Clean the posterior surface of the abdominal part of the cosophagus and secure the right vagusABDOMINAL CAVITY 461 nerve; trace its branches along the wall of the stomach and towards the spleen. Finally clean the crura of the diaphragm to the level of the orifice through which the oesophagus enters the abdomen. When the dissection is completed the dissector is in a position to study the coeliac artery and its branches, the blood supply of the stomach, and the bed of the stomach. Arteria Coeliaca (O.T. Coeliac Axis).—The coeliac artery is a short, wide vessel, which springs from the front of the aorta, between the two crura of the diaphragm, immediately above the upper margin of the pancreas. It is directed horizontally forwards, and, after a course of little more than half an inch, divides into three large branches, viz.—(i) the left gastric; Fig. 177.—The Coeliac Artery and its branches. (2) the hepatic ; and (3) the splenic, which radiate from each other like the spokes of a wheel. The coeliac artery is surrounded by a thick, matted plexus of nerves, called the cceliac plexus, which sends numerous nerve twigs with the three branches of the artery. Arteria Gastrica Sinistra (O.T. Coronary Artery).—This, the smallest of the three branches of the coeliac artery, proceeds upwards and to the left, behind the omental bursa and through the left pancreatico-gastric fold, to the oesophageal opening of the stomach, where it changes its direction, enters between the two layers of the lesser omentum, and runs, from above downwards and to the right, along the lesser curvature of the stomach. Near the pylorus it ends by462 ABDOMEN ■ ■ anastomosing with the right gastric branch. of the hepatic artery. The branches of the left gastric artery are :— 1. Qisophageal. 2. Gastric. Eami CEsophagei.—^Two or three oesophageal branches may arise separately, or by a common trunk, from the left gastric artery at the point where it reaches the stomach. They pass upwards, through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, upon the posterior aspect of the gullet, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the thoracic aorta. The gastric branches take origin from the trunk, as it runs along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and are distributed to both surfaces of this viscus. Vena Coronaria Ventriculi (Coronary Vein of the Stomach). —This vein accompanies the left gastric artery along the small curvature of the stomach and behind the omental bursa to the coeliac artery, then, continuing to the right, it crosses in front of the aorta and joins the portal vein at the lower border of the epiploic foramen (Winslow). Arteria Hepatica.—The hepatic artery, intermediate in size between the left gastric and splenic, at first takes a trans- verse course, to the right, along the upper border of the pan- creas. At the pylorus it changes its direction, and, turning forwards, below the epiploic foramen (Winslow), in the right pancreatico-gastric fold, it ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum. Near the porta hepatis it ends by dividing into right and left hepatic arteries. The hepatic artery is accompanied by numerous large nerve twigs derived from the coeliac plexus, and, as it passes upwards to the liver, it is in close relationship with the common bile duct and the portal vein. The duct lies upon the right side of the artery, and the vein lies behind both. (Fig. 170, p. 449, and Fig. 172, p. 453.) The following are the branches of the hepatic artery:— 1. Right gastric. „ , , , , rSuperior pancreatico-duodenal. 2. Gastro-duodenal. | Rj^ht gastro-epiploic. 3. H^pa.ic.{S“- ■! The Arteria Gastrica Dextra is a small artery which springs4(>3 ABDOMINAL CAVITY from' the hepatjg at the pylorus, and then runs from right to left, along the lesser curvature of the stomach, between the two layers of. the gastro-hepatic omentum. It ends by inosculat- ing with the left gastric; the accompanying vein terminates in the portal vein. The Arteria Gastro-Duodenalis arises close to the pyloric artery, and is directed downwards, behind the first part of the duodenum, in a groove on the anterior aspect of the neck of the .pancreas. At the lower border of the duodenum it ends by dividing into the superior pancreatico-duodenal and the right gastro-epiploic branches (Fig. 170). The Arteria Pancreatico-Duodenal is Superior runs first to the right and then downwards between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum. It anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery forming an arch round the head of the pancreas. It gives branches to both the duodenum and the pancreas. The pancreatico-duodenal veins join the superior mesenteric vein. The Arteria Gastro-Epiploica Dextra is directed from right to left, along the greater curvature of the stomach, and between the two anterior layers of the great omentum. It gives branches upwards to both surfaces of the stomach, and downwards to the greater omentum, and ends by anasto- mosing with the left gastro-epiploic branch of the splenic. The right gastro-epiploic vein joins the superior mesenteric vein. The right and left hepatic arteries, the terminal branches of the hepatic, diverge from each other, and sink into the liver at the two extremities of the porta hepatis. From the right hepatic a small branch called the cystic is given to the gall-bladder. This divides into two twigs, one of which ramifies in the areolar tissue between the liver and gall- bladder and the other upon the inferior surface of the gall- bladder, between it and its peritoneal covering. The cystic vein joins the vena portse or its right branch. Arteria Lienalis (Splenic Artery).—The splenic artery is the largest branch of the cceliac artery. It takes a wavy or tortuous course, along the upper border of the pancreas behind the omental bursa, towards the left side, and ends, in front of the left kidney, by dividing into five or six branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which, however.464 ABDOMEN lies at a lower level, and therefore altogether behind the pancreas. The following are the branches of the splenic artery;— 1. Pancreatic branches. 2. Gastric. S^f^ric arteries. t Left gastro-epiploic. 3. Splenic branches. The arterice. pa?tcreaticce are small twigs which come off at various points for the supply of the pancreas. The pancreatica magna branch which is commonly described as accompanying the duct from left to right in the substance of the pancreas is not as a rule present. The Arteries Gastricce Breves (O.T. Vasa Brevia) are five or six small arteries, of which some arise directly from the splenic, whilst others take origin from its terminal branches. They run towards the stomach, between the two layers of the gastro-lienal ligament, and are distributed to the cardiac end of the viscus, anastomosing with the left gastric and left gastro-epiploic arteries. The Arteria Gastro-Epiploica Sinistra takes origin from the splenic, or one of its terminal branches near the spleen; it runs forwards, in the gastro-lienal ligament, and then turns to the right, along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the two anterior layers of the greater omentum. It gives branches which ascend to supply both aspects of the stomach, and others which descend into the greater omentum, and it ends by anastomosing with the right gastro-epiploic artery. The splenic or terminal branches of the splenic artery reach the spleen by passing between the two layers of the lieno-renal ligament. From the above description of the branches of the coeliac artery it will be seen that the stomach is remarkably rich in blood-vessels. Two proceed from left to right—viz. the left gastric along the lesser curvature, and the left gastro-epiploic along the greater curvature ; two, both branches of the hepatic, are directed from right to left—viz. the right gastric, in relation to the lesser curvature ; and the right gastro-epiploic, in relation to the greater curvature. The arterial circle is completed on the left by the short gastric arteries, which connect the coronary artery with the left gastro-epiploic. The splenic vein, the portal vein, the bile duct, and the inferior phrenic arteries will be considered at a later stage of the dissection. Ventriculus (Stomach).—The stomach is the most dilatedABDOMINAL CAVITY 465 ■Aortic arch STOMACH 5’t’L: Hyoid bone Thyreoid car- tilage Cricoid cartilage Trachea ■CEsophagus Descending aorta ■Oesophagus part of the alimentary canal, and it constitutes the receptacle for the food after it has been masticated and swallowed. The gullet or oesophagus opens into the stomach above and to the left, whilst below and to the right the stomach becomes continuous with the duodenum or first part of the small intestine. The form and the position of the organ within the abdomen are greatly influenced not only by the amount of food it con- tains but also by the empty or distended condition of the other hollow viscera in its vicinity. It is convenient to describe it as it appears when moderately distended. It then assumes a pyriform shape and is strongly curved upon itself. It is cus- tomary to recognise in connec- tion with the stomach : (i) a blunt left extremity or fundus; (2) a narrow right extremity or pylorus; Thoracicduct_ (3) two orifices, a i2th thoracic vertebra, cardiac and a pyloric ; Abdominal aorta- (4) two surfaces, a superior and an inferior; and (5) two borders or curvatures, a greater and a lesser. The/w«t/«T, or left,'or cardiac end, is full and rounded, and forms a marked bulging directed upwards and backwards. It occupies the back part of the left cupola of the diaphragm, from which it is separated in part by the spleen and the liver. To the right of the fun- ius and about two inches below its summit is the otsophaneal mrJiM orifice. This is placed on the upper part or com. VOL. I—30 Bronchus CEsophageal opening in diaphragm uniim Duodenum Fig. 178.—The CEsophagus, Stomach, and Duodenum.ABDOMEN 466 mencement of the lesser curvature, but in certain conditions of the stomach it appears to be partly on the upper surface. At this point the organ is joined by the gullet. The pylorus or narrow right extremity of the stomach, which, as a rule, is directed backwards, becomes continuous with the duo- denum or commencement of the small intestine, and the junction is marked on the surface by a slight but distinct constriction, termed the duodeno-pyloric constriction. The two surfaces of the stomach, as a general rule, look for the most part upwards and downwards. The upper surface Left crus of diaphragm Left renal Fig. 179.—The Stomach has been removed from its bed so as to display the recess in which it lies. is fuller and more convex than the lower surface. To some extent it is directed forwards, as well as upwards, and it is largely covered by the left lobe of the liver. Below and to the left of the sharp margin of the liver, however, a consider- able portion of this surface of the stomach is in apposition with the diaphragm, and also with the posterior aspect of the anterior abdominal wall. The inferior su?face of the stomach is flatter than the superior surface, and is supported by a slightly curved and sloping shelf, which projects forwards from the posterior wall of the abdomen. This has been appropriately called, by467 ABDOMINAL CAVITY Birmingham, the stomach-bed. It is formed by the following structures, all of which are related to the lower surface of the organ; (i) the gastric surface of the spleen; (2) the left suprarenal gland and a varying amount of the upper part of the left kidney; (3) the upper surface of the pancreas; (4) the transverse meso-colon; and (5) the transverse colon. A niche of the great sac of the peritoneum intervenes between the stomach and the spleen, and the omental bursa separates it from the left suprarenal capsule, the kidney, the pancreas. Fig. 180.—Outline of the upper aspect of the Stomach of a Child which has been hardened hi situ by formalin injection. It is the same stomach as is figured on p. 434. and colon, whilst the transverse meso-colon intervenes between it and the coils of the small intestine. The right, upper, or posterior border of the stomach is termed its lesser cuj-vature. It extends from the cardiac orifice to the pylorus, and curves round the base of an eminence, on the lower surface of the left lobe of the liver, called the tuber omentale, and also to a smaller extent round a corresponding prominence of the pancreas. It-is therefore concave, and from it proceeds a fold of peritoneum, called the gastro-hepatic omentum, which connects the stomach to the liver and, to a slight extent, to the diaphragm. The left, lower, or anterior border of the stomach, called the greater airvature^ on account of its great length, is convex and is directed to the left and I—30 aABDOMEN 468 forwards; to its uppermost segment is attached the gastro- phrenic ligament, to its left lateral segment the gastro lienal ligament, and to its lowest or anterior segment the greater omentum. The stomach is not only curved from one end to the other but it is also bent upon itself more or less acutely so that a notch or angular depression, the incisura angularis, is produced in the lesser curvature (Fig. i8o). Advantage is taken of this notch to divide the organ, for descriptive purposes, into a large cardiac part which lies to the left and a much smaller pyloric part which lies to the right of the incisura. The cardiac' part of the stomach is generally considered to consist of a fundus and a body. An imaginary line drawn around the organ from the cardiac orifice to a point on the greater curvature directly opposite is taken as separating these portions of the stomach from each other. The short pyloric part of the stomach is composed of a pyloric canal and a pyloric vestibule. The pyloric canal is a short, narrow, usually cylindrical part, about one inch or one inch and a quarter long, which immediately adjoins the duodeno-pyloric constriction. It thus constitutes the right extremity of the stomach, and its thick muscular walls and its cylindrical form give it a special character of its own. The pyloric canal is, as a rule, directed backwards, and it is marked off from the pyloric vestibule by a slight notch in the greater curvature termed the sulcus hitermedius. The p^oric vestibule lies to the left of the pyloric canal and the sulcus inter- medius. It is wider than the pyloric canal, and its walls are not so thick. But there is also a physiological subdivision of the stomach. During the process of active digestion the right half of the body of the stomach and the whole of the pyloric portion, by the firm contraction of their walls, assume a tubular form. In this tube a thorough mixture and trituration of the food is effected by means of constriction waves which pass over it in regular procession from left to right. The fundus and left half of the body of the stomach maintain a saccular form, and constitute a passive reservoir from which food is squeezed into the more active tubular part to take the place of the material which intermittently escapes from the stomach into the small intestine. When the stomach is empty it is questionable if it ever assumes during life the flaccid, relaxed, and flattened form which is so frequently seen in the dissecting-room, in subjects which have not been specially hardened. In life, the healthy stomach, by contraction of its muscular coat, adapts itself to its contents whether these be liquid, gaseous, or solid, and when empty and contracted its walls become thick and firm. Position of the Stomach.—When empty and contracted the stomach lies more or less horizontally within the abdominal cavity, it is placed within the left hypochondrium and the left portion of the epigastrium. The organ is bent on itself like a sickle and the fundus sinks downwards so that it comes to look directly backwards; the surfaces are directed upwards and downwards and the curvatures forwards and backwards the greater curvature being at a slightly higher level than the lesser curvature; lastly, there is a gradual but decided down- ward slope of the upper surface from the fundus to the pylorus.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 469 The pyloric extremity of the empty stomach lies in the Vanspylonc plane ^Addison) either where the latter cuts the ledian plane or from half an inch to an inch to the right of t^he median plane. The transpyloric plane is situated midway ween the upper margin of the manubrium sterni and the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. stoSch ‘he empty macti as described above are sufficiently obvious when the nature of the Duodeno-pj-loric constriction Right suprarenal glanil Duodenum (ist part) Kidney (right) Pyloric canal of stomach Inferior vena cava 1 CRsophagus ■Stomach Spleen (colic Duodenum (2nd part) Head of pancreas Superior mesenteric vessels Fig. i8i.- tihild two years old • Viscera hardened by formalin injection. ?h?rooftf 'chaS i considered, resistant, more unyielding than the / t •'"fis more transverse rneso-coC btfoyed un W As the stomach becomes emn* 1 ^ movable coils of small intestine, the abdominal wall rise mi^a^nd intestines, acted on by surface of the liver and the eloi-, 1'’''®^® rt against the slojiing visceral so characteristic a feature of the ^ gradual descent to the right which is result. ^"••'^^ce of the empty stomach is the horiz^oma/'^^ stomach becomes >//, it may either retain the it°"emntv oHt " characteristic of the organ when i_3?/ c less oblique position.470 ABDOMEN In both cases, it occupies more space within the abdomen by the displacement of neighbouring viscera, and the pylorus moves to the right, but not as a rule more than an inch and a half, or at most two inches, from the medial plane. The pylorus does not alter in a vertical direction ■, it main- tains the same level within the abdomen. The position of the cardiac opening is only slightly affected by the emptying or the distension of the stomach. It is placed opposite the body of the tenth dorsal vertebra, and on the surface of the body its situation may be indicated by placing the finger on the seventh costal cartilage of the left side about one inch from the median plane. As the stomach fills it becomes more rounded in general outline, and should it assume the oblique position when full the fundus is directed upwards whilst the surfaces look forwards and backwards; further, the part of the greater curvature opposite the incisura angularis takes a medial position and occupies a lower level than any other part of the stomach. It follows from this that the pyloric part of the organ courses upwards and to the right to reach its termination. In considering the various conditions which determine the position and form of the full stomach it is necessary to take into account the state of the movable, and as a rule yielding, floor of the stomach chamber. It is possible that the easiest and most natural way for the stomach to expand, under ordinary circumstances, is in a downward direction by intestinal displacement, and when this occurs the oblique portion of the organ is the result. But when the intestines are distended the stomach cannot acquire the necessary space in this manner, and the liver, which forms so large a part of the roof of the stomach chamber, has to give way before it. The obvious result of such a change in the position and form of the pliant liver is that the full stomach retains the horizontal position. The dissector must remember that the above description refers to the appearance presented by the stomach fixed and hardened after death when the body is lying on its back. It probably has a very similar form and similar relations during life when the body is recumbent, but when the body is erect the oesophageal orifice and the fundus retain their close relationships to the diaphragm and the pylorus remains at the level of the transpyloric plane, but the lowest part of the great curvature descends to or below the level of the umbilicus, and the upper two-thirds of the organ becomes more tubular and lies more in a vertical plane. The Abdominal Part of the (Esophagus.—The abdominalABDOMINAL CAVITY 471 part of the gullet is very short, probably never more than one inch in length. It lies in the upper and posterior part of the epigastric region behind a groove in the posterior aspect of the left lobe of the liver and in front of the left crus of the diaphragm. Its right border passes uniformly and gradually into the lesser curvature of the stomach without the formation of an angle, but a very definite angle is formed between the left border and the fundus. Relations between Thoracic and Abdominal Organs.—At this stage it is useful to consider the relations which exist between the abdominal and thoracic organs which lie upon the different aspects of the diaphragm. It has been noted that the right lobe of the liver occupies the right vault of the diaphragm, whilst the left lobe of the liver, the fundus of the stomach, and the spleen occupy the left vault. The base of the right lung is in relation to the right lobe of the liver. The pericardium, in by far the greater part of its extent, lies above the left lobe of the liver, which therefore intervenes between it and the stomach; only a limited portion of the apex of the heart extends over the region of the stomach. The base of the left lung lies over the left lobe of the liver, the fundus of the stomach, and the spleen. Intestinum Tenue (Small Intestine).—The small intestine is that part of the alimentary canal which succeeds the stomach. It begins in the epigastric region at the pylorus, and ends in the lower part of the right iliac region by joining the great intestine. Its average length is somewhere about twenty- three feet, and as it is traced towards its termination it will be seen to diminish slightly in calibre. It is divided into three portions, viz.;— 1. The duodenum. 2. The jejunum. 3. The ileum. The duodenum is the name which is given to the first part of the small intestine. It is about ten inches long, and extends from the pylorus to the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. As it lies deeply in the greater part of its extent, and as further dissection is necessary to display its relations, it would not be advantageous to consider it at present. The jejunum and ileum constitute the coils of the small intestine, and are more or less completely covered by the472 ABDOMEN great omentum. The jejunum begins where the duodenum ends, viz. on the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra; and the ileum ends in the lower part of the right iliac region by joining the caecum or the commencement of the large intestine. The subdivision of the small intestine is of the most arbitrary kind. After mapping off the duodenum it is customary for anatomists to look upon the upper two- fifths of the remainder as being jejunum, and the lower three- fifths as being ileum. There is no hard-and-fast line of demarcation between the lower two divisions—the one passes insensibly into the other; and, as the chief distinction is to be found by an examination of the interior of the tube, the student will not in the meantime see much difference between them. To expose the commencement of the jejunum, the greater omentum with the enclosed transverse colon should be thrown upwards over the lower margin of the thoracic wall. The coils of the small intestine should then be drawn over to the right. The junction between the duodenum and the jejunum will now be seen on the left side of the vertebral column, at the level of the second lumbar vertebra. The termination of the duodenum is fixed, partly by its relation to the peritoneum and partly by the suspensory muscle of Treitz which will be described later (p. 500), and the commencement of the jejunum bends suddenly forwards and downwards upon it, forming the diiodeno-jejunal flexure. To bring the termination of the ileum into view, the coils of the intestine should be turned over to the left. The terminal part of the ileum, which almost invariably lies in the pelvis, has no great latitude of movement. It passes upwards across the iliac vessels and upon the psoas muscle, to join the ctecum at the level of the intertubercular plane, and close to the right lateral plane. The coils formed by the jejunum and ileum are suspended from the posterior wall of the abdomen by a wide fold of peritoneum, called the mese?itery. They are thus freely movable within the cavity. Owing to the manner in which the mesentery is attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen (Fig. 183, p. 475), they tend to lie more in the left than in the right portion of the cavity, and they occupy the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac regions, filling up the greater part of the abdominal cavity below the transverse colon and its mesentery. A variable number of coils extend downwardsABDOMINAL CAVITY 473 into the pelvis, and not uncommonly some coils of the jejunum may be found in the left hypochondrium. Meckel’s Diverticulum.—In about 2 per cent of subjects dissected a blind, hollow protrusion, termed Meckel’s diverticulum, juts out at a right angle from the wall of the ileum at a point rather less than three feet from the junction of the small intestine with the cmcum. It represents a persistent portion of the vitelline duct of the embryo, and under certain circumstances it may lead to conditions which require surgical interference. Fig. 182.—The Mesentery in a subject which was hardened by formalin injection. The jejunum and ileum have been removed, and the foldings of the mesentery are displayed. The Mesentery of the Small Intestine.—'I'he mesentery of the small intestine is an extensive fold of peritoneum by which the jejunum and ileum are attached to and suspended from the posterior wall of the abdomen. Its posterior border or root is attached along an oblique line which extends, from above downwards and to the right, from the left side of theABDOMEN 474 second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa, crossing in its course the third part of the duodenum, the abdominal aorta, the inferior vena cava, the right ureter, and the right psoas magnus muscle. Its total length is about six inches. Its anterior border, which is attached to the intestine, is necessarily as long as the part of the gut to which it is attached, that is, about twenty-two feet; but this great length is not at first apparent because the mesentery is thrown into folds like a frill (Fig. 182) and the coiled condition of the gut is due to this arrangement. Thus the mesentery is markedly fan-like, and its length, from its root to its intestinal attachment, at its longest part is about six inches after death and when the body is hardened, but it may be considerably longer during life. The two layers of the peritoneum of the mesentery are not in apposition. They are separated by a variable amount of fat and areolar tissue in which lie the superior mesenteric artery and its branches to the jejunum and ileum, the corre- sponding veins, the accompanying nerves, the lymph vessels passing from the gut which are called lacteals, and numerous lymph glands. The jejunum and ileum are generally con- sidered as lying in the free border of the fold. Occasional Peritoneal Fossae.—Before the dissection of the mesentery is commenced the dissector should look for certain peritoneal fossae which are occasionally present. Some of these fossm lie near the terminal part of the duodenum, others near the termination of the ileum, and one is associated with the root of the pelvic meso-colon. The chief fossae in the region of the duodenum are the duodenojejunal, the upper duodenal, the lower duodenal, the para-duodenal, and the retro- duodenal. The duodeno-jejunal or meso-colic fossa lies immediately above the duodeno-jejunal flexure of the small intestine and passes upwards into the root of the transverse meso-colon. The upper and the lower duodenal fossa lie at the left side of the terminal portion of the duodenum, the upper passing upwards towards the upper end and the lower passing downwards towards the lower end. Thu para-duodenal fossa lies a little more to the left. It is a pouch of peritoneum pushed laterally behind the inferior mesenteric vein, and its mouth looks towards the termin.al part of the duodenum. The retro-duodenal fossa passes upwards behind the terminal part of the duodenum. The fossre in the region of the ileo-cwcal junction are the anterior ilco- cacal, the posterior ileo-cacal or ilco-appendicular, and the retro-ccccal or retro-colic. The anterior ileo-aveal fossa lies behind a small fold of peritoneum which crosses the front of the ileo-cmcal junction. Its mouth is directed downwards and to the left. The inferior ileo-civcal fossa also opens towards the left. It is bounded to the right by the emeum, in front by the terminal part of the ileum and the adjacent part its mesentery, behind by the mesentery of the appendix, and below by the plica ileo-cxcalis, a foldABDOMINAL CAVITY 475 of peritoneum which passes from the lower border of the ileum to the anterior surface of the mesentery of the appendix or, sometimes, to the appendix itself. The retro-ciccal or retro-colic fold passes upwards behind the upper part of the caecum and the lower part of the ascending colon ; when it is present the vermiform process usually lies in it. The inter-sigmoid fossa should also be looked for at this stage, in order that, if it is present, its boundaries may be examined before they are interfered with by dissection. It runs upwards liehind the root of the Transverse colon Iliac colon Mesentery of small intestine Pelvic colon Upper recess of oriental bursa Right colic flexure (O.T. hepatic flexure) Right lateral part of lower peritoneal com- partment Left colic flexure T. splenic Left lateral part lower perito- neal compart- ment Descending colon Ascending color* Caecunr. Vermifornr proces> Ileun Fig. 183.—Abtlonien after removal of Liver, JStomach, Jejunum and Ileum. pelvic meso-colon at the left side of the last lumbar vertebra. To find it, turn the pelvic part of the colon upwards. Dissection.—.\fter he has examined any of the occasional peritoneal fossae which happen to be present the dissector shoukl remove the right layer of the jieritoneum of the mesentery, the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon, and the peritoneum of the jiosterior wall of the abdomen between the root of the mesentery and the ascending colon. Commence at the upper end of the jejunum and pass downwards to the lower end of the ileum, then u|nvards along the right side of the posterior wall of the abdomen ; finally clear away the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon.ABDOMEN 476 As the peritoneum of the right side of the mesentery is removed take away the fat lying between the two layers and clean the structures exposed. They will be the (i) trunk of the superior mesenteric artery lying along the root of the mesentery ; (2) the accompanying vein, which usually lies to the right of the artery ; (3) the intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric artery, passing forwards to the wall of the gut; (4) the accompanying veins and lymph vessels and nerves; and (5) scattered at.varying intervals from the border of the gut to the superior mesenteric trunk in the root of the mesentery, the mesenteric lymph glands which lie in the intervals between the blood vessels. After the peritoneum has been removed from the posterior part of the abdomen, between the root of the mesentery and the ascending colon, and the extra-peritoneal fat has been cleaned away, a large number of structures will be exposed. Most superficially, immediately behind the peritoneum, will be found the right colic and ileo-colic branches of the superior mesenteric artery with the accompanying veins, nerves, lymph vessels and glands. In the upper part of the region, directly below the root of the transverse meso-colon, the lower part of the second portion and the right part of the third portion of the duodenum will be found, with the superior mesenteric artery and vein crossing in front of the latter and a small part of the head of the pancreas in the angle between them. Behind the superior mesenteric artery is a part of the aorta, and to the right of the aorta the inferior vena cava. Partly behind the duodenum and partly to the right of it, on a posterior plane, is the lower pole of the right kidney. The right ureter emerges from behind the duodenum and passes downwards along the medial border of the lower pole of the kidney, and then behind the ileo-colic and the superior mesenteric arteries on its way to the brim of the pelvis. The internal spermatic vessels cross in front of the ureter (Fig. 184) and the genito-femoral nerve passes downwards and laterally, behind the ureter, on the anterior surface of the psoas magnus muscle. Beyond the lateral border of the psoas magnus the fascia on the anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum will be exposed. As the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon is removed the trunk and branches of the middle colic artery and their anastomoses with branches of the right and left colic arteries will be exposed, with the accompanying veins, nerves, lymph vessels, and glands. When all the above - mentioned structures have been secured and cleaned, the dissector should throw the small intestine over to the right side and should then strip the peritoneum from the posterior wall of the abdomen between the root of the mesentery to the right, and the descend- ing and the iliac colon to the left. He should also remove the lower layer of the left part of the transverse meso-colon. As he clears away the extra- peritoneal fat, after the removal of the peritoneum, he will bring into view a larger number of structures than on the right side. In the median plane, below the root of the mesentery, lies the lower part of the abdominal portion of the aorta, dividing, opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, into the two common iliac arteries, each of which is continued downwards into the corresponding external iliac artery. On the surface of the aorta is the aortic plexus of nerves which must be carefully preserved. To the right of the aorta is the lower part of the inferior vena cava, and to the right of and below the left common iliac artery is the left common iliac vein. Springing from the front of the aorta, about one and a half inches above its bifurcation and to the left of the median plane, is the inferior mesenteric artery. The inferior mesenteric artery runs downwards on the left of the477 Fig. 184.—Dissection of the Abdomen. 'I'he great omentum and the trans- verse colon have been turned upwards. The small intestine has been removed, and the peritoneum and e.xtra-peritoneal fat have been dis- sected away from the structures on the posterior wall of the abdomen below the level of the transverse meso-colon. 1. Great omentum. 2. Transverse colon. 3. Appendices cpiploics. 4. Transverse meso-colon. 5. Superior mesenteric artery. 6. Middle colic artery. 7. Superior mesenteric vein. 8. Inferior vena cava. 9. Aorta. 10. Right colic fle.xure. 11. Common trunk of right and ileo-colic arteries. 12. Spermatic vessels. 13. Ureter. 14. Genito-femoral nervq. 15. Right common iliac artery. 16. Middle sacral vessels. 17. Caicum. 18. Ileum. 19. Vermiform process. 20. Pelvic colon. 21. Iliac colon. 22. Superior htumorrhoidal artery. 23. Sigmoid arteries. 24. heft common iliac vein. 25. Left common iliac artery. 26. Ureter. 27. Descending colon. 28. Spermatic vessels. 29. Inferior mesenteric artery. 30. Left colic arter>'. 31. Psoas muscle. 32. Inferior mesenteric vein. 33. Mesentery of small intestine. 34. Diiodcno-jejnnal ne.xure. 35. Left colic flexure. 36. Jejunum. 37. Left kidney.478 ABDOMEN aorta to the left common iliac artery, where it becomes the superior hremor- rhoidal artery. Before it becomes the superior hremorrhoidal it gives off the left colic branch, and one or more sigmoid branches. The left colic branch passes to the left, towards the descending colon, and divides into an ascending and a descending branch which run towards the upper and the lower parts of the descending colon respectively. The sigmoid branches run downwards and laterally towards the lower part of the iliac colon. To the left of the inferior mesenteric artery is the inferior mesenteric vein, which ascends, crossing behind the left colic artery, to the root of the transverse meso-colon where it disappears behind the lower border of the pancreas, which is exposed in the upper part of the area under consideration. To the left of the inferior mesenteric vein are the internal spermatic vessels which pass behind the sigmoid and left colic arteries, or their branches, and also disappear above, behind the pancreas. In the upper and left angle of the area, in the concavity of the splenic flexure of the colon, is the lower part of the left kidney, a7id, descending along its medial border, the left ureter, which passes downwards, behind the internal spermatic vessels and the left colic and sigmoid arteries, to the lower end of the left common iliac artery. Running downwards and laterally behind the left ureter, on the front of the left psoas magnus muscle, is the left genito-femoral nerve, and beyond the lateral border of the left psoas is the fascia on the front of the medial part of the left quadratus lumborum. Along the anterior border of the psoas, at the left of the aorta, is the left sympathetic cord. The right sympathetic cord is concealed by the inferior vena cava. When the dissector has found and defined all the structures mentioned he should commence the study of the superior and the inferior mesenteric arteries and their branches. He will find that the superior mesenteric supplies the terminal portions of the duodenum, the whole of the jejunum and the ileum, the ctecum, the ascending colon and the greater part of the transverse colon. That the inferior mesenteric supplies the left part of the transverse colon, the left colic flexure, the descending colon, the iliac colon, and the pelvic colon, and that it also furnishes the greater part of the blood supply of the rectum, by means of its continuation—the superior hasmorrhoidal artery. He will find also that there is a very free anasto- mosis between the left colic branch of the inferior mesenteric artery' and the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery. At a later period he will find that an inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the gastro-duodenal artery, and when he recalls to mind the fact that the latter artery is a branch of the hepatic, and that it furnishes the right gastro-epiploic, which passes to the stomach and anastomoses on its surfaces with the other arteries which supply that viscus, he will recognise that a complete chain of arterial anastomoses runs along the wall of the abdominal part of the alimentary canal, providing for the continuance of the blood supply to the wall of the gut in the event of one or more of the bigger trunks being temporarily or permanently occluded. Arteria Mesenterica Superior.—The superior mesenteric artery springs from the front of the abdominal aorta about a quarter of an inch below the coeliac artery. At its origin it is covered by the neck of the pancreas, and crossed by the splenic vein. Emerging from under cover of the pan- creatic neck it proceeds downwards, in front of the lower portion of the head of the pancreas, crosses the third part ofABDOMINAL CAVITY 479 the duodenum, close to the duodeno-jejunal flexure, and enters the root of the mesentery proper, along which it proceeds to the right iliac fossa, where it ends by anastomos- ing with one of its own branches. Between its extremities it Fig. 185.—Dissection of the Superior Mesenteric Artery. is slightly curved, the convexity of the curve being directed to the left. It is accompanied by the superior mesenteric vein, which lies upon its right side, and by the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves which surrounds it closely. It gives off the following branches :—480 ABDOMEN 1. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. 2. Intestinal. To the jejunum and ileum. 3. Ileo-colic. 1 Right colic. V To the large intestine. Middle colic. J Arteria Pancreatico-duodenalis Inferior. — The inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch takes origin from the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery, or from its first intestinal branch, and passes upwards and to the right behind the head of the pancreas. It gives branches both to the duodenum and the pancreas and anastomoses with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The Arterise Intestinales, jejunales et ilese (Intestinal Arteries) spring from the convexity or left side of the superior mesenteric, and proceed obliquely downwards and to the left, between the layers of the mesentery, to supply the jejunum and ileum. They are very numerous, from twelve to fifteen, or even more, in number, and, by their mutual inoscula- tions, they form a very remarkable succession of arches before they finally reach the bowel. At first they run parallel to one another, but soon each divides into two branches, which join the immediately adjacent branches of the neighbouring stems, and in this way a series of arterial arcades is formed. From these smaller vessels proceed, which divide and unite in a similar manner to form a second series of arches, and so on, until three, four, or perhaps even five tiers of arterial arcades are produced. From the most peripheral arches a multitude of small branches pass directly to the wall of the intestine. Here, along the line of mesenteric attachment, they divide, and the minute twigs thus derived pass trans- versely round the gut so as to encircle it. At first they lie subjacent to the peritoneal coat, but soon they seek a deeper plane in the wall of the intestine, and ultimately reach the submucous coat. The Arteria Ileo-colica springs from the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and proceeds down- wards and laterally towards the right iliac fossa. It is placed behind the parietal peritoneum, and divides into an ascending and a descending or ileo-csecal branch. The ascendmg branch turns upwards, inosculates with a branch of the right colic, and from the arterial arch thus formed branches are given to the ascending colon. The descending branch, sometimes called the iieo-ccEcal artery, proceeds to the upper part of the ileo-481 ABDOMINAL CAVITY ctecal junction and sends branches in different directions. Two, termed the anterior and posterior ccecal arteries^ pass respectively to the front and back of the caecum; one, a long slender vessel, the artery to the vermiform process, runs downwards behind the terminal part of the ileum and enters the meso-appendix for the supply of the vermiform process; whilst a fourth, the ileal artery, turns to the left along the ileum, and forms a loop with the termination of the superior mesenteric trunk. The Arteria Colica Dextra arises together with or above the ileo-colic and passes to the right, behind the parietal peritoneum on the posterior wall of the abdomen. It divides into two branches, a superior and an inferior. The superior branch ascends between the two layers of the transverse meso- colon to inosculate with the middle colic; whilst the inferior branch joins the ascending part of the ileo-colic. From the convexity of these arches twigs proceed to the ascending colon, the right colic flexure, and part of the transverse colon. The Arteria Colica Media springs from the upper end of the superior mesenteric. It passes between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and divides into a right and a left branch. The right branch joins the superior part of the right colic, whilst the left branch inosculates with the ascending part of the left colic artery, which is derived from the inferior mesenteric. Arterial arcades are thus formed in the transverse meso-colon, from which branches proceed for the supply of the transverse colon. Vena Mesenterica Superior.—This large vein lies to the right of the superior mesenteric artery, and receives tributaries, which come from those parts of the intestinal canal which are supplied by branches from the superior mesenteric artery, and also the right gastro-epiploic vein from the great curvature of the stomach and the pancreatico-duodenal vein. It passes upwards, in front of the third part of the duodenum, and, leaving the root of the mesentery, disappears under cover of the neck of the pancreas, where it unites with the splenic vein to form the vena portcc. Plexus Mesentericus Superior.—This is a dense plexus of sympathetic nerve twigs which surrounds the superior mesenteric artery like a sheath. From it filaments are prolonged to the intestine along the various branches of the artery. As the nerves approach the bowel some of the twigs VOL. I—31ABDOMEN 482 leave the vessels and effect a series of communications, with each other, in the intervals between the arteries. The superior mesenteric plexus is an offshoot from the coeliac plexus^ and it distributes twigs to the jejunum, ileum, and to the right half of the great intestine. Lymphoglandulse Mesentericse. — The mesenteric lymph glands are very numerous, indeed considerably over a hundred in number. In health they rarely attain a size greater than that of a small bean or a pea, and they are scattered between the two layers of the mesentery. The larger glands lie along the superior mesenteric artery, whilst the others are placed in the intervals between its branches. It should be noted that they are most numerous opposite the jejunum, and that the mesentery in the immediate vicinity of the intestine is free from them. A few lymph glands will also be noticed in connection with the large intestine. The lacteal vessels enter the mesentery from the walls of the intestine in enormous numbers. As they proceed up- wards they pass through the succession of glands which they meet, and, greatly reduced in number although considerably enlarged in calibre, they usually terminate, near the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, in one or perhaps more trunks which pour their contents into the cisterna chyli of the thoracic duct. Arteria Mesenterica Inferior.—The inferior mesenteric artery, considerably smaller than the superior mesenteric, springs from the left side of the front of the abdominal aorta, about an inch and a half above its termination. It descends, with a slight inclination to the left, to the brim of the pelvis, there it crosses to the left common iliac artery and becomes the superior hcE77iorrhoidal which descends into the pelvis. Before it reaches the left common iliac artery it gives off the left colic and the sigmoid branches. The Arteria Colica Sinistra.—The left colic artery runs to the left and divides into two branches, of which one ascends in front of the lower part of the left kidney to the transverse meso-colon where it inosculates with the middle colic, whilst the other descends behind the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the abdomen, to unite with the superior sigmoid artery. P'rom the arches thus formed twigs are supplied to the transverse colon, the left colic flexure, andABDOMINAL CAVITY 483 the descending colon. The point of division into upper and lower branches is very variable. The Arteriae Sigmoideae, two or three in number, are distributed to the lower part of the descending colon, the iliac colon, and the pelvic colon. The highest branch enters the left iliac fossa, behind the parietal peritoneum. It sends a branch upwards to form an arch with the descending branch of the left colic, and another down- wards, which ultimately enters the pelvic meso-colon and joins the other sigmoid branches. The lower sigmoid I—31 a484 ABDOMEN arteries pass into the pelvic meso-colon, and there form a series of arcades, varying in number according to the length of this mesentery, from which the twigs for the supply of the pelvic colon are given off. The superior hamorrhoidal artery will be followed out in the dissection of the pelvis. Vena Mesenterica Inferior.—This vein receives tributaries corresponding with the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. It passes upwards, upon the psoas magnus muscle, under cover of the peritoneum, to the left of, and at some distance from, the artery, and, disappearing behind the pancreas, it ends in the splenic vein. Plexus Mesentericus Inferior.—This plexus of nerve fibres is an offshoot from the ■ left side of the aortic plexus. It closely surrounds the artery, and sends twigs along the branches of the vessel to supply the left half of the large intestine. Plexus Aorticus Abdominalis.—The aortic nerve plexus is placed upon the aorta between the origins of the two mesenteric arteries. It is more strongly marked upon the sides of the artery than in front of it. Superiorly it is continuous with the coeliac and renal plexuses, but this fact must be demonstrated at a later stage of the dissection, whilst interiorly it sends several large branches downwards, in front of the common iliac arteries, to join the hypogastric plexus—-a plexus which is situated in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra. Upon each side the aortic plexus will be observed to be reinforced by several small twigs from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The mferior mesenteric plexus accompanying the artery of that name, and the internal spermatic (or ovarian) plexus of nerves which accompanies the internal spermatic (or ovarian) artery, are offsets from it. Removal of the Jejunum and Ileum.—Apply two ligatures round the jejunum about an inch below the duodenal flexure and divide the gut between them ; next place two ligatures round the ileum about six inches above its union with the large intestine, and divide it in like manner ; then cut through the blood-vessels and the remains of the mesentery close to the wall of the gut and remove the separated portion. When they have been detached the jejunum and ileum should be taken to the sink, the ligatures should be removed, and the cavity of the separated portion of the gut should be thoroughly cleaned by allowing water from the tap to run through it. The coats of the small intestine should be dissected under water. Take a few inches from the upper end of the jejunum, and, having opened it up with the scissors along the mesenteric line of attachment, pin it out, withABDOMINAL CAVITY 485 its mucous surface downwards, upon the bottom of a cork-lined tray, which has been previously filled with clean water. The jejunum is chosen because its wall is thicker than the ileum, and consequently more easily dissected. Carefully remove the thin serous coat in order that the subjacent layer of longitudinal muscular fibres may be studied. Then turn the specimen round and pin it down with its mucous surface uppermost. Now remove the mucous membrane with the subjacent flocculent submucous coat, with the scissors, in one layer. The circular muscular fasciculi will come into view. Coats of the Small Intestine.—The small intestine has five coats or strata entering into the formation of its walls, viz. :— The serous coating of the jejunum and ileum is complete, except along the line of the mesenteric attachment. It is exceedingly thin — much thinner than .the layers of the mesentery with which it is continuous. Unless great care be taken in stripping it off, some of the subjacent muscular fibres will be taken away with it. The subserous coat is a scarcely appreciable amount of areolar tissue which inter- venes between the peritoneum and the muscular coat. It need not be taken into account in this dissection. The muscular coat is composed of involuntary, non-striated muscular fibres. These are disposed in two layers, viz., an external stratum of longitudinal fibres, and an mternal stratum of circular fibres. Of these the circular layer is the thicker and more distinct of the two. The external longitudinal fibres are spread out, in the form of a thin continuous layer, all round the circumference of the intestine. In that part of the wall opposite the mesenteric attachment the fibres are more thickly disposed than elsewhere. The subtuucous coat is com- posed of loose areolar tissue which binds the muscular to the mucous coat. It is more firmly connected with the latter. The mucous coat must be examined throughout the whole length of the jejunum and ileum. Dissection.—The student has noticed that externally no distinction can be drawn between the jejunum and ileum, with these exceptions, viz., that as the intestine descends it diminishes slightly in its calibre and in the thickness of its walls. It is necessary, therefore, that he should open it up along its whole length, with the view of determining what differences exist internally. Before doing this, about twelve inches of the upper part of the jejunum should be removed and inflated with air. It should then be hung up to dry in order that the folds of mucous membrane, called plica; circulares, may be studied in their continuity. The best way to open the 1. Serous. 2. Subserous. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous.ABDOMEN 486 remainder of the intestine is to tie a ligature around the lower cut end of the ileum, and fill the intestine as full as possible with water. The scissors can now be easily carried along the line of the mesenteric attachment, and the intestine slit open in its entire length. The intestine can be laid open with much greater ease if a piece of costal cartilage be impaled upon that blade of the scissors which is introduced into the bowel. Mucous Membrane of the Small Intestine.—The plica circii- lares (O.T. valvula conniventes) are the most conspicuous objects on the inner wall of the small intestine. These are folds of the mucous membrane placed more or less transversely to the long axis of the intestine. Note particularly that they are permanetit folds, and that no amount of stretching or distension of the walls will cause their obliteration. On careful study of the dried specimen three main varieties of plicae circulares may be recognised. The great majority are in the form of crescentic folds, which extend for a variable distance round the wall of the intestine; others form complete rings around the interior of the intestine ; whilst the third variety, and usually the least numerous, are arranged in a spiral manner, and take from one to three spiral turns around the wall of the intestine. Each fold consists of two layers of mucous mem- brane, with a little intervening areolar tissue derived from the submucous coat. The other coats of the intestine take no part in the formation of the valvulse conniventes. In the upper part of the jejunum the valvule conniventes are strongly developed, and placed so closely together that the intervals between them are hardly greater than the thickness of one of the folds. Lower down, however, they gradually diminish in numbers, become more widely separated, more oblique in their direction, and not nearly so prominent. Approaching the middle of the ileum, they become exceed- ingly sparse and far between, and a little beyond this they usually disappear altogether. The chief function of the valvulas conniventes is to increase the absorbing and secreting surface of the small intestine. Another peculiarity characteristic of the mucous lining of the small intestine is the presence of villi. These are minute projections of the mucous membrane, varying in length from about the ■g'Mh to of an inch. They occur in enormous numbers over the entire extent of the inner surface of the intestine, not only upon the plicae circulares, but also in the intervals between them, and they give to the mucous membrane a velvety or fleecy appearance.487 ABDOMINAL CAVITY To obtain a proper view of these minute villous processes it is necessary to float out a portion of the small intestine in water, after it has been carefully cleansed from adhering mucus, and examine it with an ordinary pocket-lens. If a portion of the upper end of the jejunum be placed side by side with a portion of the lower part of the ileum, and inspected in this manner, the student will readily detect that the villi are, if any- thing, larger, and that they are decidedly more numerous, in the jejunum than in the ileum. They diminish gradually in number and in size as we pass down the small intestine. Aggregated lyviph nodules (O.T. Peyeds patches') and solitary lymph nodules must also be looked for. Frequently they are difficult to find, but by holding the bowel up to the light they can generally be detected. When seeking aggregated nodules it is better to begin at the lower end of the ileum and pass upwards. An aggregated lymph nodule consists of a large number of lymph follicles grouped to- gether so as to present to the eye a patch of an elongated, oblong figure. The patches are placed upon that aspect of the intestine which is opposite to the line of the mesenteric attachment, and the long axis of each corresponds in its direction with that of the intestine itself. In the lower part of the ileum the patches may present a length of one, two, or even four inches, and a breadth of about half an inch, but higher in the ileum they become much smaller and not nearly so numerous, and they are few in number or entirely absent in the jejunum. The total 1—316 Intermediate form Solitary nodule Agj'regaied Solitary lympli lymph nodule nodule (Peyer’s patch) Fig. 187.—Aggregated Lymph Nod- ule and Solitary Lymph Nodules from the intestine of a child of two years old. (Rirmingham.)ABDOMEN 488 number varies much, but the average number may be stated to be about thirty. They are more numerous in the young, and not so abundant nor so distinctly marked out in later periods of life. Indeed, in very old individuals they may disappear almost entirely. The solitary lymph nodules are isolated lymph follicles, scattered everywhere over the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They are minute, rounded or ovoid, opaque white bodies, about the size of a millet seed, and they usually cause a slight bulging of the mucous membrane at the points where they occur. The pllcce drculares^ the villi^ and aggregated ly^nph nodules are the only special peculiarities of the mucous membrane of the jejunum and ileum which are visible to the naked eye, and, from what has been said regarding them, the dissector will understand that although they are not arranged in such a way as to mark off by a clear line of demarcation the jejunum from the ileum, they are sufficient to enable him to distinguish between characteristic portions of each—i.e. between portions taken at some distance from the arbitrary line of division. The following are the essential points of difference which would guide him in deciding which is ileum and which jejunum :— Jejunum. Plica Circttlares. Ileum. Numerous and well marked. Few in number and poorly de- veloped, and, in its lower part, absent altogether. Villi. Numerous and large. | Not so numerous and not so I large. Aggregated Lymph Nodules. b'ew in number, small in size. More numerous, of large size, and and, as a rule, nearly circular oblong in form, in outline. The general position and the constituent portions of the large intestine have already been noted (p. 439); the positions and relations of the individual parts must now be studied more completely. The Csecum and Vermiform Process.—The cmcum forms the commencement of the large gut. It has the appearance of a sacculated pouch, 2\ inches long and 3 inches broad, continuous above with the ascending colon, and on theABDOMINAL CAVITY 489 left with the ileum and the vermiform process. It is com- pletely surrounded by peritoneum and is supplied with blood by branches derived from the loop between the termination of the superior mesenteric artery and its ileo-colic branch. The Vermiform Process springs from the medial and posterior aspect of the caecum, about an inch below the ileo- csecal junction, and passes either upwards and to the left, towards the left hypochondrium, downwards into the pelvis across the right external iliac artery, or upwards behind the caecum and the ascending colon. It invariably occupies the Frenulum of valve Tainiae coli Anterior t*nia coli Upper segment of valve Frenulum of valve Orifice of ileum Inferior segment of valve Ileum Orifice of vermiform process Fig. 188.—Caicum which has been distended with air and dried, and then opened to show lleo-Caecal Opening and Valve. (Hirnungham.) last position if a retro-colic pouch is present. It is attached by a mesentery, the meso-appendix, to the posterior surface of the lower part of the mesentery of the ileum. Dissection.—Turn the ctecum upwards, remove the peritoneum from the wall of the iliac fossa behind it and clear away the extra-peritoneal fat. Note that the peritoneum and fat separate the emeum from the right psoas and iliacus muscles, and from the femoral nerve ((3.T. anterior crural) in the angle between them. The anterior surface of the ctecum is in rela- tion with the anterior wall of the abdomen or is separated from it by the lower part of the great omentum. Cut away a portion of the right lateral wall of the caecum and examine the ileo-caecal orifice and the orifice of the vermiform process from the interior of the intestine.ABDOMEN 490 The Ileo-Csecal Orifice is an antero-posterior slit, bounded above and below by a protruding lip formed by the partial invagination of the lower end of the ileum into the csecum. The two lips are the two segments of the valve of the colo7i (O.T. ileo-cacal valve'). At the extremities of the orifice the segments of the valve unite together and become continuous with a ridge of the wall of the gut which is prolonged around the cavity. The anterior and posterior parts of the ridge, immediately adjacent to and connected with the lips of the valves, are spoken of as the frenula of the valve. The peritoneum and the longitudinal muscular bands are in no way involved in the infoldings which form the valve-flaps ; but the other Orifice of vermiform process' Upper segment- Lower segment- Fig. 189.—Ileo-Caecal Opening and Valve from a subject hardened by formalin injection (Birmingham.) constituents of the gut-wall (viz. the mucous membrane, the submucous coat, and the circular muscular fibres) take part in their formation. Villi are present on the ileal but not on the csecal aspect of each valve-flap. The function of this valve is obvious. It is so arranged that the free passage of materials from the ileum into the crecum is in no way impeded ; but when the csecum becomes distended, and there is, consequently, a tendency to regurgitation, the frenula of the valve are put upon the stretch and the free borders of the segments are brought into firm contact. In this way reflux of the contents of the csecum into the ileum is prevented, although it is well to note that the obliquity of the entrance of the ileum into the cmcum' also exercises a very important influence in the same direction. The position of the ileo-csecal orifice is marked on the anterior surface of the abdomen by the medial angle between the intertubercular and the right lateral lines. About an inch below the ileo-ctecal orifice, and on a posterior plane, is the491 ABDOMINAL CAVITY orifice'of the vermiform process, which may be quite open, or it may be partly guarded by a semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the valve of the vermifor7>i process. Colon Ascendens.—The Ascending Colon passes upwards from the csecum, in the iliac region, through the right lumbar region to the right colic flexure in the right hypochondriac region. It varies from about six to eight inches in length. It is covered in front and at the sides by peritoneum which binds it to the posterior wall of the abdomen. Occasionally it is attached to the posterior abdominal wall by an ascending meso-colon. Anteriorly it is either in contact with the anterior wall of the abdomen or it is separated from the abdominal wall by coils of small intestine and the right free margin of the great omentum. Dissection.—Turn the ascending colon upwards and clear away the fatty areolar tissue from behind it, then note that it lies anterior to the upper part of the iliacus, the crest of the ilium, and, above the crest, in front of the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum and the medial part of the aponeur- osis of origin of the transversus abdominis. It is separated from the quadratus lumborum, however, not only by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, but also by the last thoracic, the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal nerves. It is possible that the dissector will not be able to display the last thoracic nerve at this stage of the dissection. Flexura Colica Dextra (O.T. The Hepatic Flexure of the Colon).—This flexure lies in the right hypochondrium below and somewhat behind the anterior part of the lower surface of the right lobe of the liver, to the right of the gall-bladder and in front of the lower part of the right kidney. It is covered by peritoneum except on its posterior surface, which is attached to the kidney by loose areolar tissue. Colon Transversum (The Transverse Colon).—The trans- verse colon extends first downwards and forwards and then upwards and backwards, from the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, in the right hypochondriac region, to the lower extremity of the spleen in the left hypochondriac region. The lowest part of the curve usually crosses through the upper half of the umbilical region, and a small but acute secondary curve, which is developed upon the left extremity of the main curve, lies against the medial border of the upper part of the descending colon. In the greater part of its extent it is enclosed in the posterior wall of the omental bursa, its lower border being attached to the greater curvature of the stomach by the greater omentum, whilst492 ABDOMEN the posterior part of its upper border is attached to the pancreas by the transverse meso-colon. It is in relation anteriorly, from right to left, with the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, the lower part of the posterior surface of the gall-bladder, the cavity of the omental bursa and the two anterior layers of the greater omentum which separate it from the abdominal wall, and the abdominal surface of the Transverse meso-colon (divided) Hepatic Portal Common Epiploic foramen Fig. 190.—Duodenum, Pancreas, S.C. Suprarenal gland. S. Spleen. R.K. Right kidney, L.K. Left kidney. P. Pancreas. D. Duodenum. and Kidneys. (From the model by His.) H.F. Right colic (hepatic) flexure of the colon. S. F. Left colic (splenic) flexure of the colon. M. ^lesentery. S. M. Superior mesenteric vessels. J. Jejunum. diaphragm. Before it enters the posterior wall of the omental bursa its posterior surface is in direct relation with the anterior surface of the second part of the duodenum; then it lies in front of the third part of the duodenum, the upper end of the mesentery of the small intestine, the duodeno-jejunal flexure, and in front of coils of jejunum which separate it from the lower pole of the left kidney. Its lower border is attached toABDOMINAL CAVITY 493 the two posterior layers of the great omentum. The right extremity of its upper border is in relation to the under surface of the liver and the posterior surface of the gall-bladder, and, in the remainder of its extent, it is attached posteriorly by the transverse meso-colon to the pancreas, and anteriorly it em- braces the lower part of the greater curvature of the stomach, behind the line of attachment of the greater omentum to the lower border of that viscus. The Transverse Meso-colon is a fold of peritoneum which connects the posterior part of the upper border of the trans- verse colon to the front of the head and to the anterior border of the body of the pancreas. It is not so extensive as the transverse colon and is absent to the right of the head of the pancreas where the transverse colon is in direct contact with the second part of the duodenum. The lower layer of this fold has already been removed, but the upper layer and the arteries which lie between the two layers are still in position and will enable the dissector to verify the attachments of the fold, which contains the middle colic artery and its branches, the accompanying veins, lymph vessels, and nerves, and the terminal portions of the upper branches of the right and left colic vessels and their anastomoses with the middle colic vessels. Before removing the ascending colon and the transverse colon the dissector should again examine the longitudinal muscle fibres of the walls of the large intestine. They are arranged in the form of three longitudinal bands {tanice coli). The bands converge together on the medial and posterior aspect of the caecum and fuse into a continuous layer on the vermiform process. At the opposite end of the large gut they converge again on the wall of the rectum, first into two bands and then into a continuous layer, but in the remaining parts of the large intestine the bands are widely separated, one running along the anterior border {tania libera), one along the posterior border {ttstiia mesocolica), whilst the third lies along the medial borders of the ascending and descending portions of the colon, and along the lower border of the transverse colon (tania omentalis). Dissection.—Place two ligatures round the upper part of the ascending colon, immediately below the right colic flexure; divide the intestine between the ligatures and remove the cfccum and ascending colon. Place two liga- tures round the transverse colon to the left of the right colic flexure, andABDOMEN 494 another pair of ligatures round the left part of the transverse colon near the left colic flexure. Divide the transverse colon between the ligatures at each end, then cut the transverse colon away from the remains of the transverse meso-colon and its contents. Take the separated portions of the large intestine to the sink, remove the ligatures and wash out the cavity of each part with running water. In one piece carefully divide the longitudinal bands of muscle in the intervals between the sacculi of the wall, then pull on the extremities and note (i) that the intestine lengthens, (2) that to a great extent the sacculi disappears, and (3) that when the tension is removed the piece of intestine does not return to its former length. This simple experiment shows that it is the shortness of the longitudinal bands which causes the puckered condition of the wall of the large gut. Open both the separated portions and note that the mucous membrane is devoid both of plicae circulares and villi. Hold the wall of the intestine to the light and note that whilst solitary lymph nodules are present there are no aggregated lymph nodules. Structure of the Vermiform Process.—The serous coat is complete, and the subjacent exte7-nal longitudmal layer of the muscular coat forms a continuous and uniform covering, which at the base of the process becomes divided into the three bands or tsenice coli of the caecum. The internal chxtdarfibres of the muscular coat are likewise spread uniformly and con- tinuously over this part of the intestine. The distinguishing and important structural feature of the vermiform process is found in the submucous coat. This coat is loaded with lymph tissue which is arranged in numerous nodular masses, like solitary lymph nodules, placed so closely together that ad- jacent nodules in many cases become confluent with each other. When the process is cut across and examined under a tow power of the microscope, these lymph follicles, arranged in this manner, present a strong resem- blance to what is seen in a cross-section through an aggregated lymph nodule. Intestinum Crassum (Large Intestine).—Structure of Large Intestine.—Transverse and oblique ridges or folds, correspond- ing to the constrictions which separate the sacculi, are every- where apparent on the inner surface of the large intestine. If the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres be removed or divided at short intervals, and the intestine stretched, both sacculi and constrictions disappear, and the wall of the in- testine becomes uniform. The mucous membrane of the large intestine is absolutely destitute of &////, but solitary lymph twdules are present in considerable numbers. If the mucous surface be examined with a lens, its surface will be seen to be studded over with the round mouths of tubular glands, which are embedded in the mucous membrane (ctyfits of Lieberkiilm). The same glands are present in the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but they are not so large. Dissection.—The coats of the large intestine must be dissected in the same manner as in the case of the small intestine. Coats of the Large Intestine.—In connection with the serous coat, the student has already taken notice of the afipeti-495 ABDOMINAL CAVITY dices epiploicce. The external longitudinal muscular fibres have also been observed to be disposed in three flat bands. These begin on the cajcum at the base of the vermiform process. From this they diverge, so as to take up positions on different aspects of the gut. They are placed as follows:—(i) One in relation to the attached surface (tfenia mesocolica); (2) the second upon the anterior aspect (taenia libera); (3) and the third along the medial aspect of the gut (taenia omen- talis), but, in the case of the transverse colon, the latter band is in relation to the inferior aspect of the tube. The inter?ial circular muscular fibres are most distinct in the constrictions between the sacculi, but constitute a thin uniform layer over the entire extent of the gut. The submucous coat is in no respect different from the corresponding coat in the small intestine. Flexura Colica Sinistra (O.T. The Splenic Flexure of the Colon).—The splenic flexure is situated in the left hypo- chondriac region in close relation with the lower end of the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, and the lateral border of the left kidney. It is closely attached to the left extremity of the anterior border of the pancreas by the left portion of the transverse meso-colon, to the stomach by the upper end of the left border of the greater omentum, and to the abdominal surface of the diaphragm, opposite the eleventh rib in the mid-axillary line, by the phrenico-colic ligament. It is, therefore, a more fixed, and it is also a more acute, flexure than the hepatic flexure. Colon Descendens (The Descending Colon).—The descend- ing colon commences at the splenic flexure in the left hypo- chondriac region, descends along the lower part of the lateral border of the left kidney, turns slightly medially to the apex of the lower pole of the kidney, and then descends, vertically, to the left iliac crest, where it becomes the iliac colon. Its length varies from four to six inches. Like the ascending colon it is covered in front and on each side by peritoneum, and its posterior surface is in relation with the extra-peritoneal fat which separates it from the fascia in front of the quadratus lumborum and the medial part of the aponeurosis of origin of the transversalis abdominis. Its posterior and anterior relations are similar to those of the ascending colon (see p. 490- The Iliac Colon.—This portion of the colon commencesABDOMEN 496 at the termination of the descending colon at the level of the upper and back part of the iliac crest. It passes downwards and forwards to the region of the anterior superior iliac spine, and then turns medially, along the line of the inguinal ligament, to the brim of the small pelvis, where it becomes the pelvic colon. Its length is variable, but averages about six inches. It does not possess a mesentery, but is covered with peritoneum anteriorly and along its sides. Posteriorly it is separated by the extra-peritoneal fat from the iliacus, the psoas magnus, the femoral nerve (O.T. anterior crural) which lies in the groove between the two muscles, and its termina- tion is in front of the left external iliac artery. The remaining portions of the large intestine will be considered in association with the dissection of the pelvis. Dissectioti.—Place two ligatures round the descending colon, below the splenic flexure, and two more ligatures round the junction of the iliac with the pelvic colon ; divide the intestine between each pair of ligatures and remove the descending and the iliac portions of the colon. Take the detached intestine to the sink, wash it thoroughly, open it, and note that, as in the other parts of the large intestine previously examined, the mucous membrane is devoid of villi and of j^licre circulares. After the separated part of the intestine has been examined, clean the posterior wall of the abdomen in the regions from which it was removed and then expose the structures which form its posterior relations. After these have been displayed clear away the remains of the transverse meso-colon from the front of the pancreas and proceed to the examination of the duodenum. Duodenum (The Duodenum).—It has already been noted that the duodenum is the first part of the small intestine, and it would have been examined, in proper sequence, immediately after the examination of the stomach, had it not been that a complete examination of it at that time w’ould have interfered too much with the relations of other portions of the intestine which have now been removed. The duodenum is from ten to twelve inches in length, it is the widest and the most fi.xed of the three parts of the small intestine, and its walls are thicker than those of the other two parts. It extends from the pylorus, which lies in the transpyloric plane half an inch to the right of the median plane, to the duodenal flexure, situated at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra slightly below the transpyloric plane and about an inch to the left of the median plane. Whilst passing from its commencement to its termination the duodenum describes a U-shaped curve, the concavity of the curve, which embraces the head of the pancreas, being directed upwards and to the left. For con-497 ABDOMINAI. CAVITY Fig. 191.—Dissection of the Abdomen. The left lobe of the liver, the stomach, the gastro-hepatic omentum, the great omentum, and the transverse colon have been removed. The greater part of the posterior wall of the omental bursa has been dis- sected away, and the peritoneum and extra-peritoneal fat have been removed from the posterior wall of the lower part of the abdomen. 1. Cut surface of left lobe of liver. 2. Falciform ligament. 3. Ligamentum teres. 4. Caudate lobe. ^ Left hepatic artery. 6. Right hepatic artery. 7. Hepatic duct. 8. Portal vein. 9. Fundus of gall-bladder. 10. Cystic duct. 11. Common bile duct. 12. Duodenum, ist part. 13. Gastro-diiodcnal artery. Z4. Superior pancreatico-duo- denal cavity. 15. Right gastro-cpiploic artery. 16. Duodenum, 2nd part. 17. Inferior vena cava. tS. Right colic flexure. VOL. r—:i2 jg. Psoas muscle. 20. Spcnnatic vessel crossing ureter. 21. Common tnmk of ilco-colic and right colic arteries. 22. Ccnito-fcmoral nerve. 23. Right common iliac artory. 24. Middle sacral vessels. 25. Caecum. 26. Ileum. 27. Vermiform process. 28. Pelvic colon. 29. Cut edge of gastro-hepatic omentum. 30. Qisophagus. 31. Left crus of diaphragm. 32. Right crus of diaphragm. 33. Left inferior phrenic artery. 34. Left gastric artery. 35. Right inferior phrenic artery. 36. Spleen. 37. }*ancreas. 38. Left gastro-opiploic .irtcry. 39. Splenic artery. 40. Left colic flexure. 41. Duodcno-jcjunal flexure. 4'j. Middle colic artery. 43. Left kidney. 44- Inferior mesenteric vein. 45. Left colic artery. 46. P.soas muscle. 47- Inferior mesenteric artery. 48. Spermatic vessels. 49. Ureter. 50. Sigmoid arteries. 51. Gcnito-femoral nerve. 52. Superior hteiiiorrhoidal artery. 53. Iliac colon.498 ABDOMEN venience of description the duodenum is divided into four parts (i) superior, (2) descending, (3) inferior, (4) ascending. The greater portion of the first part is surrounded by peritoneum which is continuous below with the great omentum and above with the gastro-hepatic omentum, but its terminal portion is devoid of peritoneum posteriorly and inferiorly. The second part is covered by the peritoneum in front, and on the right side, except where it is crossed by the transverse colon, the third part is covered in front and below, and the fourth part is covered in front and on the left side. The remaining surfaces of the second, third, and fourth parts of the duodenum are devoid of peritoneum, and they lie in relation either with other viscera, with large blood-vessels, or with the posterior wall of the abdomen. Pars Superior.—The first part of the duodenum is two inches in length, it lies in the epigastric region, and for about an inch or more from the pylorus it is enveloped by the same two layers of peritoneum which invest the stomach, consequently it enjoys a limited degree of movement; in its terminal part it is only covered on its anterior and superior surfaces by the peritoneum. Its position and relations are dependent upon the degree of distension of the stomach. When that viscus is empty and the pylorus, in consequence, lies close to the medial plane, the first part of the duodenum passes backwards and to the right, with a slightly upward inclination, in correspondence with the slope of the visceral surface of the liver, until it reaches the neck of the gall-bladder. Here it ends by bending suddenly downwards into the second part. Under these circumstances the superior part of the duodenum lies in close apposition with the lobus quadratus of the liver. When the stomach, on the other hand, is dis- tended the pylorus comes into relation with the lobus quadratus, and the superior part of the duodenum is some- what shortened and proceeds straight backwards. It then occupies only the posterior part of its original situation, and its termination is lodged in a depression at the right end of the porta hepatis. The relations of the first part of the duodenum are as follows: above and m front, the under surface of the liver; below, the pancreas ; behind, the common bile-duct, the gastro-duodenal artery, the upper part of the neck of the pancreas, and the portal vein. Pars Descendens.—The second part of the duodenum is 1499 ABDOMINAL CAVITY usually about from three to four inches in length, and takes a downward course from the under surface of the liver. Placed at its commencement in the epigastric region, it descends into the umbilical region, lying close to the medial side of the right lateral plane. Reaching the level of the third lumbar vertebra, it turns towards the spine and enters upon the third stage of its course. This second stage of the duodenum is immovably fixed in its position. It is covered by peritoneum only on its anterior and lateral surfaces, and is crossed by the commencement of the transverse colon, which, in this part of its course, does not possess a mesentery (Fig. 170). Behind, it rests upon the right border of the inferior vena cava and presents a variable relation to the renal vessels and the anterior surface of the right kidney in the neighbourhood of the hilum. To the right is the hepatic flexure of the colon; and to the left is the head of the pancreas, which is moulded upon the medial side of this part of the duodenum. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct open into the second part of the duodenum a little below its middle, at the junction of its medial and posterior aspects. Pars Horizontalis.—The third part of the duodenum crosses the posterior wall of the abdomen at the level of the third lumbar vertebra, its direction being from right to left and slightly upwards. To the right of the median plane it lies in the upper part of the umbilical region, but near its termination it rises above the subcostal plane into the epigastric region. Its anterior and inferior surfaces are covered by i)eritoneum. It lies behind the transverse colon, and it is crossed by the upper part of the root of the mesentery of the small intestine containing the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Posteriorly it rests against the right ureter, the right psoas magnus muscle, the right internal spermatic artery, the inferior vena cava, and the abdominal part of the aorta. Its upper border is in relation with the head of the pancreas and the inferior pancreatico-duodenal artery, and its lower border is in relation with coils of the jejunum. Pars Ascendens.—The fourth part of the duodenum passes upwards from the level of the upper part of the third lumbar vertebra to the duodeno-jejunal flexure. In front and on the left it is covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the upper part of the jejunum. To the right it is in I—32 a500 ABDOMEN relation, anteriorly, with the head of the pancreas and, posteriorly, with the aorta. Behind it lies the anterior border of the right psoas magnus muscle, with the right sympathetic cord, and the left renal vein crosses behind it, unless the latter vessel lies at a somewhat relatively higher level behind the lower surface of the pancreas. Dissection.—Cut through the peritoneum along the lines of its reflection from the duodenum to the right kidney on the right, and from the duo- denum to the posterior wall of the abdomen below and to the left, then turn the second part medially, and the third and fourth parts upwards to examine the posterior relations noted above. The first part of the duodenum and the attached portion of the pyloric end of the stomach can be turned to the right for the examination of the posterior relations of the first part of the duodenum. Suspensory Muscle of the Duodenum and the Root of the Mesentery.—The duodeno-jejunal flexure and the root of the mesentery are held in position and prevented from slipping downwards on the posterior wall of the abdomen by a band of involuntary muscular fibres, which fixes them to the dia- phragm. This band is called the suspensory muscle of Treitz. It is attached above to the diaphragm, on the right side of the oesophageal aperture. From this it proceeds downwards, on the left side of the coeliac artery, to the duodeno-jejunal flexure, into ,which a large number of its fibres are inserted. The remaining fibres enter the mesentery and find attachment to the peritoneum. In the child the suspensory muscle is well marked and easily isolated, but in the adult it loses its distinctly muscular character and becomes more or less blended with neighbouring tissues. Pancreas.—The pancreas is an elongated gland which stretches transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen behind the stomach. For the most part it is situated in the epigastric region, a small portion only of its left extremity being placed in the left hypochondriac region. As in the case of the other solid organs contained within the abdominal cavity, its form is greatly modified by the condition of the hollow viscera in its immediate vicinity, and its true shape can only be ascertained by fixing it in situ by injections of some hardening reagent. It may be described as consisting of a head, a neck, a body, and a tail. The head of the pancreas is the flattened portion of the gland which lies in front of the spine and occupies the con- cavity of the duodenum. It rests upon the inferior vena cava 1ABDOMINAL CAVITY SOI and to some extent also upon the aorta, whilst its anterior surface is crossed by the transverse colon. As a rule its margins tend to overflow the duodenal boundary: in other words, its marginal lobules show a tendency to wander over the anterior surface of the second and third parts of the duodenum so as to overlap the gut in the vicinity of its con- cavity. Certain other relations may be noticed in connec- tion with the head of the pancreas, viz. : (i) the common bile-duct passes down behind it in close relation to the second part of the duodenum; (2) the pyloric part of the stomach lies in front of it, above the transverse colon ; (3) its lower part, the processus uncinatus, is prolonged to the left, along the upper border of the third part of the duodenum, behind the superior mesenteric vessels, and then upwards behind the neck; (4) the vena portae is formed in front of the upturned part of the processus uncinatus and behind the neck. The 7ieck of the pancreas (Symington) is a narrow, constricted portion of gland-substance which springs from the anterior aspect of the head, nearer its upper than its lower margin. It constitutes the link of connection between the head and the body of the pancreas, and as it proceeds to the left and forwards, it lies in front of the commencement of the vena portae and of the termination of the superior mesenteric vein. These vessels intervene between the neck and the front surface of the upper part of the processus uncinatus. The anterior part of the anterior surface of the neck is covered by the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the omental bursa. It is usually somewhat depressed by the pyloric end of the stomach, which rests upon it, and the posterior part is separated from the first part of the duodenum by the gastro-duodenal artery. The body of the pancreas extends from the anterior and left extremity of the neck backwards and to the left, across the lower part of the left suprarenal body, and the front of the left kidney to the short tail^ which lies in relation with the spleen. It presents anterior^ inferior^ and posterior swfaces which are separated from each other by superior, anterior, and inferior borders. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards, and is covered by the peritoneum of the posterior wall of the omental bursa. This surface of the pancreas, in the greater part of its extent, supports the postero-inferior surface of the stomach, and is hollowed for its reception.ABDOMEN 502 Immediately adjoining the neck a smooth rounded prominence projects upwards and forwards from the junction of the anterior surface and the upper border, above and to the left of the lower part of the small curvature of the stomach. This process is the tuber onmitale (His). It abuts against the lesser omentum which separates it from the omental tubercle of the liver. The inferior surface of the body of the pancreas looks downwards and rests upon the duodeno-jejunal flexure, the coils of the small intestine, and the trans- verse colon close to the splenic flexure. It is completely covered by the peritoneum, which forms the posterior layer of Fig. 192.—Dissection of Pancreas from behind to show its Ducts. (Birmingham.) the transverse meso-colon, and varies greatly in extent, the variation being due to the varying degrees of intestinal pressure to which the pancreas is subjected from below. The gastric pressure exerted on the pancreas from above, and the counter- pressure which is exerted by the intestine on the inferior surface of the organ from below, varying, as they do in the same individual, according to the condition of these hollow viscera, determine, in a great measure, the shape of the body of the pancreas. The body of the pancreas has the appearance of being wedged in between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon at its root. The splenic artery pursues a wavy course along the superior border of the pancreas, whilst the transverse meso-colon is attached to its anterior border. The tail of the pancreas abuts against the visceral aspect of the spleen, and usually rests upon a small depression on theABDOMINAL CAVITY 503 lower and medial part of the gastric concavity of that organ (Fig. 197, p. 512). Dissection.—To display the posterior relations of the body and neck of the pancreas raise the tail from the spleen then, working from left to right, carefully separate the body and the neck from the structures which lie behind them. The posterior surface of the body of the pancreas lies in front of the middle portion of the left kidney; in front of the hilus of the kidney and the structures which pass through it; in front of the lower part of the left suprarenal gland; in front of the left crus of the diaphragm ; and it joins the left and anterior end of the neck in front of the left border of the aorta. The splenic vein runs behind its upper border, between it and the kidney and the left suprarenal gland, to the back of the neck, where it joins with the superior mesenteric vein to form the commencement of the portal vein. The inferior mesenteric vein passes behind the right end of the posterior surface to join the splenic vein, and the left internal spermatic vein also ascends behind it to join the left renal vein which issues from the hilus of the kidney and passes to the right to join the inferior vena cava behind the head of the pancreas. Ducts of the Pancreas.—The ducts of the pancreas are, as a rule, two in number—a main duct and an accessory duct. Both run within the gland substance. The main paticreatic duct of Wirsimg begins at the tail of the gland by the union of the small ducts issuing from the lobules in this region, and it proceeds transversely towards the right. It gains considerably in size as it traverses the organ from its being joined by the small ducts which come from the various groups of lobules. Reaching the neck of the gland it bends downwards into the substance of the head. If the gland is divided horizontally, little difficulty will be experienced in discovering the main duct. The extreme whiteness of its walls is a help to the student in this dissection. Close to the duodenum the pancreatic duct comes in contact with the common bile-duct, and, in company, both pierce the coats of the descending part of the duodenum upon its posterior and medial aspect, and terminate in its wall in a dilatation, the ampulla of Vater, which opens into the cavity of the duodenum at the apex of a papilla, the papilla duodeni. The accessory duct of Santorini is small, and arises in the lower part of the head of the gland. It usually has anABDOMEN I. 5°4 independent opening into the duodenum above, and anterior to, the opening of the main duct. The dissector is now in a position to study the bile-ducts and the portal vein. The Bile-Ducts.—The ducts which carry the bile, secreted by the liver, from the liver and the gall-bladder to the duodenum are (i) the right and left hepatic ducts, (2) the common hepatic duct, (3) the cystic* duct, and (4) the common bile-duct. Bile flows only in one direction through the hepatic ducts and the common bile-duct, that is, towards the duodenum, but through the cystic duct it flows sometimes to and sometimes from the gall- bladder. The right and left igSrCJ .4-. ”iatonnh'e“ns hepatic ducts issue from the correspond- Bile-papilla Commonopening ing lobes of the Hver of bile and pan- • ^ , , into the porta Frenulum Fig. 193.—The Bile-Papilla in the interior of the Duodenum. (Birmingham.) creatic ducts hepatis, and unite within it to form the cotnmon hepatic duct. The latter, which is about one inch (2.5 c.m.) in length, de- scends into the up- per part of the small omentum, where it unites with the cystic duct, which has already been examined p. .447, to form the common bile- duct. As it descends, the‘’common hepatic duct passes either in anterior or posterior to the right branch of the hepatic artery. Ductus Choledochus (O.T. Common Bile-Duct).—The common bile-duct is from three and a half to four inches long (8.7 to 10 c.m.). In the flrst part of its course it lies in the right free border of the lesser omentum, to the right of the hepatic artery, and in front of the foramen epiploicum, from which it is separated by the right border of the portal vein and the posterior layer of the small omentum. In the second part of its course it passes behind the first part of] the duodenum, with the gastro-duodenal artery, close to the posterior end of the neck of the pancreas; then, entering on ¥ABDOMINAL CAVITY 505 the third part of its course, it dips behind the right border of the head of the pancreas, and coming into relation with the main duct of the pancreas it accompanies it into the wall of the second part of the duodenum, where they both enter the ampulla of Vater. The ampulla opens into the cavity of the gut by a single orifice, which is situated on the duodenal papilla. Dissection.—Make a vertical incision in the anterior wall of the second part of the duodenum, nearer its right than its left lateral border. At the upper and lower ends of the vertical incision make short transverse incisions and turn the flaps so formed aside. Clean the interior of the duodenum with a sponge, and then e.xamine the mucous membrane. Note that the mucous membrane of the second part is thrown into numerous and large plicae circulares, and that, as a rule, it is deeply stained by bile. Look for a longitudinal fold of the mucous membrane, which lies at the junction of the medial and posterior walls, nearer the lower than the upper end, this is the plica longitudinalis. It serves as a guide to the duodenal papilla which lies at its upper extremity, usually concealed by one of the largest of the plicae circulares. Pass a small probe through the opening on the apex of the papilla into the ampulla. Make an opening in the lower part of the bile-duct, and pass a small probe along the duct into the ampulla ; perform the same operation on the main pancreatic duct, then cut down through the medial wall of the gut and open up the lumina of the ducts, the cavity of the ampulla of Vater, and its orifice of communication with the interior of the duodenum. Vena Portse (Portal Vein).—Blood is carried to the liver both by the hepatic artery and by the portal vein. The hepatic artery which carries arterial blood has already been examined, p. 445. The portal vein, which carries the venous blood from the whole of the abdominal part of the alimentary- canal, except the anal canal, and from the spleen, the pancreas, and the gall-bladder, must now be studied. It is a wide vessel, about three inches in length (7.5 c.m.), which is formed by the union of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins behind the neck of the pancreas, and between it and the upturned uncinate process of the head of the pancreas. It ascends, behind the first part of the duodenum and in front of the inferior vena cava, to the lower margin of the epiploic foramen where it leaves the vena cava, enters the lesser omentum, and continues upwards, in front of the epiploic foramen and behind the bile-duct and the hepatic artery, to the right extremity of the porta hepatis; there, after enlarging slightly, it divides into a wide short right branch, and a longer and narrower left branch. The right branch receives the cystic vein and then enters the right5o6 ABDOMEN lobe of the liver. The left branch runs to the left along the porta, crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein, and enters the left lobe of the liver. As it crosses the umbilical fossa it is joined, anteriorly, by the ligamentum teres and some small para-umbilical veins, and posteriorly by the ligamentum venosum. In addition to its two main tributaries, the superior mesenteric and the splenic veins, the vena portfe receives the coronary vein of the stomach and the right gastric vein. Occasionally the inferior mesenteric vein joins its commencement instead of opening into the splenic vein. The cystic vein, as already stated, opens into its right branch. The small para-umbilical veins, which join the left branch, run along the ligamentum teres of the liver, and communicate, at the umbilicus, with the superficial veins of the abdominal wall. Vena Lienalis (Splenic Vein).—The splenic vein com- mences by the union of a number of tributaries which issue from the hilus on the gastric surface of the spleen. It runs backwards through the lieno-renal ligament, and then passes to the right to its union with the superior mesenteric vein between the neck and head of the pancreas. As it runs from left to right it lies behind the upper part of the posterior surface of the pancreas and in front of the left kidney, the left suprarenal gland, and the abdominal aorta, crossing the latter between the origins of its cceliac and the superior mesenteric branches. It conveys blood not only from the spleen, but also from the stomach and the pancreas. The blood from the stomach is conveyed to it by the left gastro- epiploic and the short gastric veins which join its commenc- ing tributaries, and as it passes along the pancreas it receives tributaries from that gland. Dissection.—Cut through the CESophagus iir.mediately below the diaphragm; detach the stomach from the diaphragm by severing the gastro-phrenic ligament, and from the spleen by cutting through the remains of the lieno-gastric ligament and dividing the short gastric arteries and the left gastro-epiploic artery. Remove the separated jiortion of the stomach and examine its structure. Coats of the Stomach.—The coats of the stomach are five in number, viz. :— 1. Peritoneal, or serous. 4. Submucous. 2. Subserous. 5- Mucous. 3. Muscular.507 ABDOMINAL CAVITY The serous coat, derived from the peritoneal membrane, can be best stripped off with the fingers. The subserotis coat is composed of a little areolar tissue which intervenes between the muscular and serous strata. The branches of the two vagi nerves can now be followed, as they spread out upon both surfaces of the stomach. The 7nuscular coat consists of involuntary or unstriped muscular fibres, and these are disposed in three incomplete layers—each layer being distinguished by the direction of its fibres. The stratum lotigi- tudinale (O.T. external layer) is composed of fibres which run for the most part in the longitudinal direction. The longitudinal fibres of the CESophagus, on reaching the cardiac orifice, radiate over the stomach in all directions, but more par- ticularly along the lesser curvature, and they dis- appear (with the exception, perhaps, of some on the lesser curvature) before they reach the pyloric part of the organ. On the body of the stomach a new and independent set of longi- tudinal fibres take origin, and these gradually form a continuous layer which gains in strength and thickness as it sweeps onwards towards the pylorus. The stratum circulare (O.T. middle layer) is composed of circular fibres, which are continuous with the more superficial circular fibres at the lower end of the oesophagus. They do not form a continuous coating for the stomach (Birmingham). Beginning as a series of loops immediately to the right of the oesophageal opening, they gradually increase in length as the layer is followed towards the pylorus, and soon they completely encircle the organ and form a continuous stratum. No fibres of this layer encircle the fundus. At the pylorus the circular Fig. 194.—Dissection of the three layers of Muscular Fibres in the Wall of the Stomach.ABDOMEN 508 fibres undergo a marked increase in number, and at the duodeno-pyloric constriction they are aggregated together into a thick circular ring, called the pyloric sphincteric ring, Fig. 196. The fibrcz obliqua, or fibres, of the internal layer are oblique fibres which give a partial covering to the stomach. They are continuous with the deeper circular fibres of the gullet, and are best seen immediately to the left of the cardiac opening. From this they spread out in a series of loops which embrace the oesophageal opening and proceed obliquely to the right over both surfaces of the viscus. As these muscular loops are traced towards the fundus, they are found to gradually assume the form of a complete coating of circular fibres for this part of the organ (Birmingham). The submucous coat is composed of lax areolar tissue. It intervenes between the muscular and mucous tunics, binding them loosely to each other and in such a manner that the mucous membrane can glide freely upon the deep surface of the muscular coat. The 771UCOUS coat must be studied from the inside of the stomach. Open up the viscus by running the scissors along the lesser curvature. The gastric mucous membrane will now be seen to be thick, soft, and pulpy. In the dissecting- room the student cannot obtain a proper idea of its natural colour. In infancy it is rosy red, but as life advances it gradually becomes paler, and in old age it presents a brownish hue from the presence of pigment. When the mucous membrane is cleansed and examined with a pocket-lens, its surface is observed to present a pitted appearance. In- numerable polygonal depressions are brought into view, and these are observed to be larger and better marked near the pylorus than in the vicinity of the fundus. At the bottom of these pits are the mouths of the minute tubular glands of the gastric mucous membrane. The mucous membrane has little elasticity, and, con- sequently, when the stomach contracts and becomes empty the membrane is thrown into projecting folds or rugje which for the most part run in the longitudinal direction and occupy the cavity of the organ. As the stomach expands these folds open out and finally disappear when complete distension is attained. Disseciio/i.—Extend the incision already made into the second part of the duodenum upwards into the first part, to within a short distance of theABDOMINAL CAVITY 509 pyloric constriction and examine the pyloric orifice and the pyloric canal. Then remove a segment of the wall of- the first part of the duodenum, and dissect it to display its structure. Pyloric Orifice and Pyloric Canal.—The extremity of the pyloric canal protrudes into the commencement of the duodenum, so that, when viewed from the duodenal side, it presents the appearance of a smooth, rounded knob, sur- rounded by a shallow furrow or fornix, and having a small puckered orifice, the pyloric opening, in its centre. The resemblance which it presents to the os uteri externum is very striking. When the stomach has been properly hardened m situ the pyloric orifice is almost invariably found tightly closed. It is only on rare occasions that the opening is patent. In such cases it is circular, and surrounded by a ring-like ledge Fig. 195.—Small portion of the Pyloric part of the .Stomach with part of Duodenum attached. which has been called the pyloric valve ; but it is doubtful if this is a natural condition. During life the pyloric opening may be regarded as being always rigidly closed, except during digestion when it opens intermittently, and at irregular intervals, to allow material to be squirted from the stomach into the duodenum. The muscular coat of the pyloric canal is modified to suit the requirements of this section of the stomach. It is provided with a powerful sphincteric apparatus. Both the circular and longitudinal muscular fibres are present in greater mass than in any other part of the organ. The circular fibres are disposed in the form of a thick sphincteric muscular cylinder which‘surrounds the entire length of the pyloric canal. At the duodeno-pyloric constriction the margin of this cylinder becomes increased in thickness, forming thereby the massive muscular ring which encircles the pyloric orifice and con- Orifice of pyloric canal of stomach Termination of pyloric canal protruding into duodenum Pyloric part of stomachABDOMEN Sio stitutes the pyloric sphincteric ring. The knob-like appear- ance presented by the extremity of the pyloric canal, when viewed from the interior of the duodenum, is produced by the presence, beneath the mucous membrane, of this muscular ring. The sphincteric cylinder which surrounds the pyloric canal varies much in its thickness in accordance with different degrees of contraction of the canal. The longitudinal muscle-fibres likewise form a thick layer on the superficial aspect of the sphincteric cylinder and ring. They are uniformly disposed around the pyloric canal, but Sulcus in- ' termedius Interior of pyloric canal Incisura angularis Sphincteric cylinder Duodeno-pyloric constriction Sphincteric ring Orifice of pyloric canal Interior of duodenum Sphincteric ring Duodeno-pyloric constriction Sphincteric cylinder Pyloric vestibule Fig. ig6.—Pyloric Canal and Pyloric Vestibule of the .Stomach opened up by section in the plane of the two curvatures. comparatively few of these fibres pass superficially over the duodeno-pyloric constriction to become continuous with the corresponding fibres of the muscular coat of the duodenum. As they approach the duodenum the deeper longitudinal fibres of the pyloric canal leave the surface and penetrate the substance of the pyloric sphincteric ring. There can be little doubt that by this arrangement an effective apparatus, antagonistic to the pyloric sphincteric ring, is provided, by means of which, when the sphincter relaxes, the pyloric orifice may be dilated. There is thus a constrictor and a dilator of the pylorus. In suitable specimens this arrangement of the muscleABDOMINAL CAVITY 511 fibres may be seen by the naked eye when a longitudinal section is made through the pyloric canal in the plane of the two curvatures of the stomach (Fig. 196). Coats of the Duodenum.—In connection with the duo- denum, note that the plicte circulares begin one or two inches beyond the pylorus, about the commencement of its second part; that the mucous membrane is covered by villi; and that no solitary lymph nodules are to be seen. A segment of the wall of the first part of the duodenum should now be pinned down, with its mucous surface undermost, to the bottom of a cork- iined tray filled with water. Its coats may then be dissected. They are in all respects similar to those already examined in connection with the jejunum (p. 485). Ifthe dissection is carried on until the deep surface of the submucous coat is exposed by the removal of the entire muscular coat, a view of Brunner’s glands may be obtained. They appear as whitish specks, about the size of hemp-seed, in the submucous tissue. They are most numerous close to the pylorus, and gradually disappear about two inches beyond this. Lien (Spleen).—The spleen is a solid organ, which lies deeply in the left part of the costal zone, and is altogether out of sight in the undisturbed condition of the viscera, but it is exposed when the stomach is removed. It lies very obliquely in the abdominal cavity, its upper end being much nearer the medial plane and much further back than its lower end. Its long axis is directed from above downwards and laterally, and also to some extent forwards. For the most part it lies in the left hypochondrium, but its upper end extends medially beyond the left lateral plane, so that fully a third of the organ is situated in the epigastric region. The spleen when properly hardened in situ has the shape of an irregular tetrahedron. The upper extremity is curved to some extent forwards on itself, and approaches close to the left suprarenal gland. Of the four surfaces the most extensive is the facies diaphragmatica, which is convex and looks backwards and laterally. It rests upon the posterior part of the diaphragm, to the curvature of which it is adapted, and it is separated by the diaphragm from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is necessary also to remember that the pleura descends between this portion of the chest wall and the diaphragm, and comes to lie superficially to the greater part of the diaphragmatic surface of the spleen. The thin basal margin of the lung, which occupies the upper part of the pleuralABDOMEN 512 recess, likewise intervenes between the upper part of the spleen and the surface of the body. The remaining three surfaces are turned towards the cavity of the abdomen, and are closely applied to the viscera which support the organ in its place. These three surfaces, which may be grouped together under the one term visceral” are. separated from each other by three ridges which radiate from a blunt and often inconspicuous prominence which may be termed the intermediate angle, and represents the apex of the tetrahedron. One of these ridges, a salient and prominent Anterior angle Intermediate angle Fig. 197.—The Spleen (visceral aspect). border (margo intermedins), ascends to the upper end of the spleen and separates an extensive anterior gastric area from a narrower posterior renal area; a second short ridge or border passes backwards to the posterior angle and intervenes between the renal and the colic surfaces; whilst the third ridge, less distinctly marked, proceeds forwards to the anterior angle and separates the gastric and the colic surfaces from each other. The term colic surface is applied to a triangular area which is bounded by the two last-named ridges, together with the lower border of the organ. The facies gastrica is the most e.xtensive of the three visceral districts. It is deeply concave and moulded upon513 ABDOMINAL CAVITY the fundus of the stomach. Within its area and about an inch or so in front of the margo intermedius is situated a longitudinal slit, frequently broken up into two or more pieces, the hiliis lienis. This gives passage to the vessels and nerves which enter and leave the organ. Behind the hilus and immediately in front of the intermediate angle there is a pancreatic depression of variable extent and depth into which the tail of the pancreas is received. They««Vj renalis is concave, and varies somewhat in its extent. It is applied to the anterior surface of the upper part of the kidney close to its lateral border. The peritoneal relations of the spleen are such that the renal surface cannot be studied unless the posterior border of the organ is pulled forwards, and the fingers are passed behind it. The colic suij^ace is smaller than the other two visceral areas. It is triangular in form, and looks downwards and medially. It is in contact with the left colic flexure and the phrenico-colic ligament. Of the several borders which separate the different surfaces of the spleen from each other, the anterior, the inferior, and the posterior are the most prominent and conspicuous. The anterior border is notched or crenated, and intervenes between the diaphragmatic surface and the gastric surface. The inferior border separates the diaphragmatic surface from the colic surface; whilst the posterior border intervenes between the renal and diaphragmatic surfaces. The other margins which separate the visceral areas from each other radiate out from the intermediate angle, and have been already noticed. A characteristic feature of the typically formed spleen is the great prominence of the anterior angle. It forms the most anteriorly placed part of the spleen. The form of the spleen varies very greatly with the varying degrees of distension of the hollow viscera which are related to its visceral aspect. There is good reason to believe that the tetrahedral form which is described above is associated with an empty or slightly distended stomach .and a well-distended intestine. When, however, the stomach is distended and the intestine more or less empty, the basal surface partially or even entirely disappears, and then the spleen assumes a form similar to that of the segment of an orange (Shepherd). Structure of the Spleen.—As the spleen will be required when the relations of the left kidney arc studied, the dissector should obtain a sheep’s spleen for the purpose of studying the structure of the organ. I le will find that it is envelo])ed by two coats—(i) serous; (2) fibro-elastic. VOL. I—3.3514 ABDOMEN The peritoneal investment adheres so closely to the subjacent fibrous coat that it can only be removed with difficulty. With regard to the fibro-elastic tunic (tunica propria), it should be noted that processes proceed from its deep surface and dip into the substance of the organ. These are the trabecula:, and they constitute the supporting framework of the gland-pulp. On account of this arrangement, it will be found utterly impossible to strip off the fibrous coat of the spleen without at the same time lacerating its surface. Make a section through the organ, and carry a portion off it to the tap. By squeezing it and allowing the water to run freely over it, a view of the trabecular framework may be obtained. Disced ion.—The sympathetic plexuses of the upper part of the abdomen may now be studied with advantage. Throw the tail and body of the pancreas and the first part of the duodenum over to the right. Next turn to the left coeliac ganglion, which was displayed when the posterior wall of the omental bursa was removed, lying between the left border of the coeliac artery and the medial border of the left suprarenal gland (see p. 460). From the medial border of the left coeliac ganglion trace sympathetic nerve fibres across the front of the aorta round the root of the coeliac artery to the opposite ganglion which lies behind the inferior vena cava. To expose the right coeliac ganglion, therefore, it is necessary to displace to the right the portion of the inferior vena cava which lies behind the first part of the duodenum and to fix it out of the way with hooks or pins. Follow each coeliac ganglion upwards and backwards to its union with the great splanchnic nerve of the same side, and follow the splanchnic nerve to the point where it passes into the abdomen by piercing the crus of the diaphragm of the corresponding side. Sympathetic Plexuses.—In connection with the sympa- thetic nervous system three large plexuses are formed in front of the vertebral column: they are the cardiac plexus in the thorax, the coeliac or solar plexus in the upper part of the abdomen proper, and the hypogastric plexus in the lower part of the abdomen proper. The Coeliac or Solar Plexus, which is by far the largest of the three, consists of the two coeliac (O.T. semilunar) ganglia and the numerous nerve bundles which connect the ganglia together. It lies at the level of the lower part of the last dorsal and the upper part of the first lumbar vertebra in front of the crura of the diaphragm and the uppermost part of the abdominal portion of the aorta, between the medial margins of the suprarenal glands, and around the coeliac artery. Numerous offshoots arise from it and pass either along the adjacent arteries, or to the suprarenal glands and the kidneys ; these constitute secondary plexuses. Ganglia Cceliaca (O.T. Semilunar Ganglui).—The coeliac ganglia are of irregular shape, and they are so large that they are frequently mistaken by students for lymphatic glands.515 ABDOMINAL CAVITY The upper extremity of each ganglion is joined by the great splanchnic nerve of the same side, whilst the lower part, which is often more or less detached, is connected with the small splanchnic nerve. Plexus Gastricus Superior.—The left gastric plexus springs from the front of the coeliac plexus. It accompanies the left gastric artery to the small curvature of the stomach and distributes twigs to both aspects of the viscus. Plexus Hepaticus.—The hepatic plexus also springs from the front of the central part of the coeliac plexus. It is joined by twigs from the left vagus nerve, and accompanies the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the bile-duct, to- the liver. At the lower margin of the small omentum, it gives off twigs which accompany the gastro-duodenal artery and its right gastro-epiploic branch ; these constitute the inferior gastric plexus. Plexus Lienalis.—The splenic plexus, like the left gastric and the hepatic plexuses, springs from the median and anterior part of the coeliac plexus. It accompanies the splenic artery to the spleen, and is joined by twigs from the right vagus nerve. It gives offshoots along the various branches of the artery. Plexus Eenalis.—Each renal plexus consists-of numerous nerves which spring chiefly from the medial and lateral part of the corresponding cceliac ganglion. Some will be found, however, coming from the strands of the coeliac plexus and others from the aortic plexus. The smallest or third, splanchnic nerve, when it is present, joins tiiis plexus. Thus constituted, the filaments of the renal plexus run with the renal artery to the hilus of the kidney, and are distributed within the gland substance. Several twigs are likewise given to the spermatic plexus. A few scattered ganglia are usually found in connection with the renal plexus. Plexus Suprarenalis.—The dissector will be struck with the large number of nerves which supply the suprarenal glands. They are chiefly derived from the coeliac ganglion of the same side, but many come from the strands of the coeliac plexus. Below, each suprarenal plexus is directly continuous with the renal plexus, and above, it is connected with the dia- phragmatic plexu.s. The smallest splanchnic nerve usually contributes a branch to this plexus, and the point at which it joins is marked by a small ganglion. Plexus Phrenicus.—The filaments composing each phrenic plexus take origin from the upper part of the coeliac ganglion of the same side, and are distributed with the inferior phrenic artery, to the under surface of the diaphragm, but they do not follow rigorously the branches of this vessel. At first they lie subjacent to the peritoneum, but soon they penetrate be- tween the fleshy fasciculi and establish communications with the phrenic nerve. On the right side a small ganglion is formed on the under surface of the diaphragm at the point of junction between this plexu.s and the phrenic. In addition to its diaphragmatic branches the phrenic plexus contributes filaments to the suprarenal plexus, and, on the right side, to the hepatic plexus. Plexus Mesentericus Superior.— The superior mesenteric plexus springs from the lower part of the central portion of the coeliac plexus and descends, with the superior mesenteric artery, in the root of the mesentery of the small intestine. It gives offsets along the branches of the artery. Plexus Aorticus Abdominalis.—The abdominal aortic plexus is formed mainly by branches derived from the ganglia of the abdominal parts of the sympathetic cords, but it is connected above with the coeliac and superior516 ABDOMEN mesenteric plexuses, and, below, branches which issue from it are pro- longed downwards across the fronts of the common iliac arteries into the hypogastric plexus. Plexus Spermaticus.—Each spermatic plexus receives filaments from the aortic plexus and from the renal plexus of the same side. It accompanies the corresponding internal spermatic artery and gives branches to the ureter as well as to the testicle. In the female the corresponding plexus is called the ovarian plexus and accompanies the ovarian vessels. Plexus Mesentericus Inferior.-—The inferior mesenteric springs from the aortic plexus. It accompanies the inferior mesenteric arterj' and gives secondary offshoots along the branches of the artery. Removal of the Spleen, Pancreas, and Duodenum.—The dissector should now proceed to the removal of the spleen, the pancreas, and the duodenum, which should be kept together and preserved so that they can be replaced in position when the relations of the kidneys are being studied. Cut through (i) the splenic artery about three-quarters of an inch from its origin from the coeliac trunk ; (2) the portal vein, about one inch above the union of the superior, mesenteric, and splenic veins; (3) the superior mesenteric artery half an inch below its origin from the aorta ; (4) the gastro-duodenal branch of the hepatic arter)^ h'ix the splenic vein to the posterior surface of the pancreas with a few stitches. Pull the spleen over towards the right side and cut through the left layer of the lieno-renal ligament which is still in position, then remove the spleen, the pancreas, and the duodenum from the abdomen. Removal of the Liver. —The general position and connections of the liver have been considered, and the left lobe has been detached and laid aside (see p. 444). The right lobe must now be separated from the parts to which it is connected. Strip the peritoneum from the anterior surface of the inferior vena cava, from the point where it was exposed by the removal of the first part of the duodenum to the point where it disappears into the fossa venas cavse on the posterior surface of the liver. Raise the liver as much as possible and, to the right of the inferior vena cava, cut through the layer of the peritoneum which is reflected from the lower part of the posterior surface of the liver to the diaphragm. This layer is the lower layer of the coronary ligament. At the base of the liver the lower layer of the coronary ligament becomes continuous with the right triangular ligament which must also be divided. After the right triangular ligament is divided, pull the liver downwards as far as possible, and cut through the falciform ligament which connects the anterior and superior surfaces of the liver to the anterior abdominal wall and to the diaphragm. Divide this ligament from before backwards, and note as its posterior extremity is approached that its right lateral layer becomes continuous with the upicr layer of the coronary ligament which passes from the posterior border of the upper surface of the liver to the diaphragm. Divide this layer from right to left, and be careful not to injure the upper ]iart of the abdominal ]iortion of the inferior vena cava, which lies immediately behind it a little to the right of the line of attachment of the falciform ligament. Now, with the right hand, pull the right lobe of the liver forwards and to the left, detach- ing its posterior surface from the diaphragm, with the fingers of the left hand, until the right border of the fossa for the inferior vena cava is reached ; then separate the vena cava from the fossa, with the fingers, from below upwards, until the large hepatic veins arc reached as they ])ass out of the upper part of the posterior surface of the liver into the anterior wall of the inferior vena cava, immediately below the diaphragm. Divide these veins carefully with the knife and remove the right lobe of the liver from the abdomen.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 517 After the right lobe of the. liver has been removed from the abdomen attach the left lobe to it with long pins, and study the various surfaces and parts of the gland with the utmost care. The Surfaces of the Liver.—The anterior surface, and the base or right lateral surface, are smooth, convex, and covered by peritoneum. They are separated from each other by a rounded and indistinct border. The base is in relation with the right part of the diaphragm, from the level of the seventh to the level of the eleventh rib in the mid-axillary line, and Coronary lig.iment it is separated by the diaphragm from the lower part of the right lung and right pleural sac. The Anterior Surface is in relation with the anterior part of the diaphragm, on each side of the sub-costal angle, and opposite the sub-costal angle with the posterior surfaces of the sheaths of the recti muscles, and the lower border of the falciform ligament is attached to it nearer to its left than to I its right extremity. The Superior Surface is also smooth and covered by * peritoneum. On the right and on the left, where it fits into the corresponding cupolie of the diaphragm, and is separated I—33 a 1518 ABDOMEN by the diaphragm from the lungs and pleural sacs, it is convex, and more convex on the right side than on the left. In the intermediate area, where the diaphragm separates it from the pericardium and the heart, it is slightly concave, and running antero-posteriorly across the depressed area is the line of attachment of the falciform ligament, which separates the upper surface of the right from the upper surface of the left lobe. The line of attachment of the falciform ligament to the upper surface terminates, posteriorly, Lig. teres Fig. 199.—The Inferior or Visceral Surface of the Liver. at the upper end of the fossa for the ductus venosus, and from this point the line of attachment of the left triangular ligament extends to the left, on the back part of the upper surface of the left lobe. A short distance to the right of the posterior end of the line of attachment of the falciform ligament the posterior border of the upper surface is notched, by the upper end of the fossa for the inferior vena cava. The portion of the posterior border of the upper surface, which lies between the upper ends of the fossa for the ductus venosus and the fossa for the inferior vena cava, is the upper end of the caudate lobe. Impression for suprarenal body ' Common bile duct \ Inferior vena cava Portal vein Hepatic artery I GastrO'bepatic omentum Fossa for ductus venosus519 ABDOMINAL CAVITY The loiver and posterior surfaces are both divided into segments by a right and a left pair of fosste which run parallel with the sagittal plane. The left pair of sagittal fossae, which separate the lower and the posterior surfaces into right and left lobes, are the fossa for the U7nbilical vem on the inferior surface, and the fossa for the ductus venosus on the posterior surface. The right pair of sagittal fossae, which segment the lower and posterior surfaces of the right lobe, are the fossa for the gall-bladder on the lower surface and the fossa for the inferior vena cava on the posterior surface. The Lower Surface of the Liver looks downwards and backwards and rests either upon viscera situated at a lower level in the abdomen or upon the front of the lesser omentum. It is separated into a smaller right and a larger left segment or lobe by the fossa for the umbilical vein. On the lower surface of the right lobe, close to its posterior border and at its left extremity, is the porta hepatis or hilus of the liver, through which the hepatic artery and the portal vein pass into the liver and the bile-ducts and the lymph vessels pass out. It connects the posterior part of the fossa for the umbilical vein with the posterior part of the fossa for the gall-bladder. Falciform ligament Left triangular ligament Fig. 200.—Posterior Surface of the Liver.520 ABDOMEN The portion of the right lobe which lies in front of the porta and between the fossa for the gall-bladder on the right and the fossa for the umbilical vein on the left is the quadrate lobe, which frequently bears impressions made by the pylorus and the first part of the duodenum. Behind the porta and between the lower ends of the fossa for the ductus venosus and the fossa for the inferior vena cava is the lower end of the caudate lobe, which is usually divided, by a shallow sulcus, into a nodular left or papillary process^ which pro- jects downwards into the cavity of the omental bursa, and a right, band-like or caudate process which connects the lower end of the caudate lobe with the main part of the lower surface of the right lobe. The remainder of the lower surface of the right lobe is marked by three shallow impressions; (i) a.t the right extremity of the porta hepatis is an antero-posterior sulcus, the impressio ditodefjalis, for the second part of the duodenum; (2) to the right of the fossa for the gall-bladder is the impressio colica for the hepatic flexure of the colon; (3) behind the impressio colica is the impressio renalis for the upper part of the anterior surface of the right kidney. Occasionally a fourth impression exists behind the impressio duodenalis; this is the impressio stipra- renalis, which is always present on the posterior surface and which may extend on to the inferior surface. The lower surface of the left lobe is marked by an elevation, the tuber omentale, and a depression, the imp7-essio gastrica. The tuber ornentale lies immediately opposite the left extremity of the porta hepatis and, when the liver is in position, it rests against the lesser omentum immediately above the small curvature of the stomach. The gastric impression occupies the remainder of the lower surface of the left lobe lying in front and to the left of the tuber ornentale. The Posterior Surface of the Liver (Figs. 200 and 201).— This is moulded upon the front of the vertebral column, from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the lower part of the descending thoracic aorta. It presents, therefore, a deep hollow corresponding to the bodies of the vertebrae and the structures in front of them. Immediately to the left of the fossa of the ductus venosus there is a smooth notch or groove imp7'essio a’sophagea which leads downwards into the gastric impression on the under surface of the left lobe. This groove lodges the oesophagus. Beyond the oesophageal groove521 ABDOMINAL CAVITY the posterior surface of the left lobe merges with the sharp margin of the organ. It has been pointed out that the oesophagus is separated from the bottom of the oesophageal groove in the liver by the prominent anterior margin of the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, which in the first instance then must be regarded as being responsible for this depression (Birmingham). On the posterior surface of the right lobe may be recog- nised—(i) the lobus caudatus (Spigelii); (2) the fossa for Left triangular ligament (O.T. left lateral ligament) CEsophagus Inferior vena cava Coronary ligament Omental tubercle of liver Caudate (O.T. spigelian) Pylorus Fig. 201.—Liver, Right Kidney, Spleen, and Stomach, as seen from behind. Drawing taken from a model prepared by the reconstruction method. the inferior vena cava; and (3) an extensive bare area uncovered by peritoneum. The lobus caudatus (O.T. lobus Spigelii) is the portion of liver substance which lies between the fossa of the ductus venosus and the fossa of the inferior vena cava. Its lower end appears on the under surface of the liver immediately behind the porta hepatis. It is separated into the papillary process on the left and the caudate process on the right (Fig. 200). The caudate lobe forms the bottom of the vertebral hollow, and is separated from the bodies of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal vertebrie by the diaphragm and the lower part of the descending thoracic aorta.522 ABDOMEN I>ossa VencE Caves.—The fossa for the inferior vena cava is a deep groove placed on the right side of the caudate lobe. It ascends almost perpendicularly, and sometimes it is converted into a tunnel by a bridge of liver substance which passes over the vein from the one side to the other. The bare area of the posterior surface of the liver is triangular in form, and lies to the right of the fossa for the vena cava. It forms the greater part of the posterior surface of the right lobe, and is bounded above and below by the lines of reflection of the coronary ligament. For the most part it is convex, and it is connected with the diaphragm by loose areolar tissue, and some minute veins which unite the portal vessels of the liver with the systemic vessels of the diaphragm; but close to the lower end of the fossa for the vena cava there is a well-marked depression imfressio suprarenalis which lodges the right suprarenal gland. Porta Hepatis (O.T. Transverse Fissure).—The porta hepatis or hilus of the liver is the cleft on the posterior part of the lower surface of the right lobe through which the vessels and ducts enter and leave the liver. It lies near the posterior border of the lower surface, between the lower end of the caudate lobe posteriorly and the quadrate lobe anteriorly, extending, transversely, from the upper and posterior end of the fossa for the gall-bladder on the right, to the upper and posterior end of the fossa for the umbilical vein on the left. In the upper part of the lesser omentum, immediately below the porta, the bile-duct, the hepatic artery, and the portal vein are in close relation to each other, the artery lying to the left, the duct to the right, and the portal vein behind and between them. The branches of the three structures enter the porta in the same relative positions, and as they pass into it they become enclosed in a sheath of the fibrous capsule of the liver (Glisson’s capsule). Trace them for a short distance into the substance of the liver and note that the portal vein branches like an artery, and wherever it divides, there also will the hepatic artery and hepatic duct be found to divide. The branches of these three structures, therefore, traverse the liver substance in company, and the fibrous capsule is prolonged into the liver with them, and follows them in their ramifications. The student is now in a position to understand the meaning of the term '•'•portal523 ABDOMINAL CAVITY canal.” It is employed to denote a channel in the liver substance lined by a prolongation of the fibrous capsule, and holding in its interior a branch of the portal vein, a branch of the hepatic artery, and a branch of the hepatic duct. Vessels of the Liver.—Blood enters the liver—(i) by the hepatic artery, (2) by the large portal vein ; whilst it is led away from the liver by the hepatic veins. The hepatic artery is a branch of the coeliac artery. It carries arterial blood for the nourishment of the liver sub- stance and divides into two branches which enter the liver at the extremities of the porta hepatis (p. 462). The portal vein carries venous blood, which it has gathered from the entire length of the abdominal portion of the ali- mentary canal (with the exception of the anal canal of the rectum), from the spleen, pancreas, and gall-bladder. It reaches the under surface of the liver at the right extremity of the porta hepatis, where it divides into its two terminal branches. The terminal part of the portal vein, just before it divides, is slightly expanded, forming the sinus of the portal vein. The right branch is a short wide vessel, which immediately sinks into the liver; the left branch, much longer and considerably smaller, extends to the left along the bottom of the porta hepatis, and at the left extremity of this furrow it crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein and enters the liver substance. As it crosses the fossa for the umbilical vein the coats of the left branch of the portal vein are joined in front by the obliterated umbilical vein, whilst behind it has also attached to it the obliterated ductus venosus. The hepatic veins, which lead the blood out of the liver, have an arrangement altogether different from the vessels which enter at the porta hepatis. They converge towards the fossa for the vena cava, on the posterior surface of the organ, and cannot be said to have any course outside the liver, as they open directly into the vena cava inferior. Their gaping mouths will be found at the upper end of the fossa for the vena cava. Trace these veins for a short distance into the substance of the gland. They are remarkable for the tenuity of their walls, and also for the very small quantity of areolar tissue which separates them from the hepatic sub- stance ; indeed, this is so scarce that it is hardly appreciable to the naked eye. In the case of the smaller veins it is524 ABDOMEN altogether absent, and the hepatic lobules rest directly upon their walls. A section should now be made through the liver substance and the cut surface examined, distinguished from the hepatic points of difference :— Portal Veins. 1. Are always accompanied by a branch of the duct and a branch of the hepatic artery. 2. Mouths usually collapsed. 3. Walls thicker. 4. Walls separated from the liver substance by the fibrous cap- sule. The portal veins can be readily veins. The following are the Hepatic Veins. 1. Are solitary and not accom- panied by any other vessel. 2. Mouths usually open and gaping. 3. Walls exceedingly thin. 4. Walls apparently in direct apposition with the liver substance. Structure of the Liver.—Very little of the structure of the liver can be learned in the dissecting-room. It is com- pletely enveloped by a fibrous capsule (Glisson’s). This is thick where the peritoneum is absent; but very thin where that membrane is spread over the gland. The liver substance pre- sents a mottled appearance, and when torn or ruptured the surface exhibits a granular aspect. The minute particles which give rise to this appearance are the hepatic lobules. In the human liver these are not completely separated from each other. Each lobule may be regarded as a miniature liver; they are 'Suprarenal vein all built Up of the same con- Surface stituents, but covered by . , inferior vena tn6SC C3.H Only cava made out by the aid of the microscope. Glandulse S uprarenales (O.T. Supra- renal Bodies or Cap s ules).— Fig. 202.—Anterior Surface of Right Suprarenal The Suprarenal Gland. glands are two small flattened bodies, each of which is placed upon the upper end of the corresponding kidney. They surmount the kidney after Surface in con- tact with liver Surface covered by peritoneum IABDOMINAL CAVITY 525 the fashion of a helmet, and are prolonged downwards for a short distance upon its anterior surface and its medial border. The suprarenal glands lie in the epigastric region, and rest upon the diaphragm. The Right Suprarenal Gland is, as a rule, triangular in form, and rests, by its base, upon the anterior and medial aspect of the upper end of the right kidney. It is placed between the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver and that portion of the diaphragm which covers the side of the spine. The anterior surface, which looks laterally as well as forwards, presents two impressions—(i) The one is a narrow flattened strip, adjoining the anterior border of the gland, which is overlapped by the inferior vena cava; (2) the second impression comprises the remainder of the anterior surface, and is in contact with the liver. Only a small and variable part of the lower portion of the anterior surface of the right suprarenal gland is covered by peritoneum. On the upper part of the impression for the vena cava, not far from the apex of the gland, a short fissure termed the hilus may be observed, vein which immediately enters the inferior vena cava. The posterior surface of the right suprarenal gland is divided by a salient curved ridge into an upper flat part, which is applied to the diaphragm, and a concave lower part, which is occupied with fat and rests upon the kidney. The Left Suprarenal Gland is semilunar in form, and, as a rule, is slightly larger than the right. Its position on the kidney is also somewhat different. It is usually placed on its medial border immediately above the hilus. The anterior surface presents, not far from its lower end, a very obvious hibis with a large emerging vein. The greater part of this surface is separated from the posterior-inferior surface of the stomach by the posterior wall and the cavity of the Fig. 203.—Anterior Surface of Left Suprarenal Gland. P'rom this issues a short wideABDOMEN 526 omental bursa, and it forms a portion of the stomach bed. The lower portion of the anterior surface is covered by the pancreas and crossed by the splenic vessels, and is not in relation to the peritoneum. Occasionally the spleen extends so far medially that it lies in relation to the upper part of the anterior surface of the left suprarenal gland, but this con- dition is rare. The posterior stirface is subdivided into two areas, as on the right side, by a curved ridge. The upper area is flat, and applied to the left crus of the diaphragm ; the lower area is hollowed out and is in relation to the kidney, a considerable amount of fat intervening. The student has already observed the abundant nerve supply to the suprarenal glands from the cceliae plexus. Its blood supply is equally rich. No fewer than three arteries enter its substance—viz. the superior, middle, and infe7'ior suprai-enal a7'ieries. When a section is made through the suprarenal gland it is seen to consist of an external firm portion termed the co7-tex, and of a soft pulpy dark-coloured internal substance called the 77iedullary pari. Eenes (Kidneys).—^The kidneys are situated behind the peritoneum, against the posterior wall of the abdomen—one on either side of the vertebral column. They are enveloped by a capsule of loose areolar tissue, the meshes of which are at certain points loaded with soft pliable fat. Clear this away, and be careful to preserve the suprarenal gland, which lies upon the upper end of each kidney. Each kidney is placed opposite the bodies of the last dorsal and the upper three lumbar vertebra. It extends from the upper border of the last dorsal vertebra to the middle of the body of the third lumbar vertebra, and it lies obliquely—its upper end being somewhat nearer the medial plane than its lower end. The kidneys lie for the most part in the hypo- chondriac and epigastric regions. As a rule the left kidney is entirely confined to these districts; but the right kidney, which generally occupies a slightly lower level, crosses the sub- costal plane so that a small portion of its inferior extremity comes to lie in the right lumbar and the adjoining part of the umbilical region. This difference on the two sides is probably due to the great bulk of the right lobe of the liver. The twelfth rib lies behind both kidneys. The right kidney does not, as a rule, extend beyond the upper border of this rib, but the left kidney may reach the lower border of the eleventh rib. The lower end of each organ is separated by a short interval, of varying extent, from the crest of the ilium.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 527 The average length of the kidney is four inches ; its breadth two and a half inches; and its average weight four and a half ounces in the male, but somewhat less in the female. It is a solid organ, very pliable, and of a brownish- red colour. The left kidney is, as a rule, slightly longer and narrower than the right kidney. Form of the Kidney.—This is so characteristic that the term “reniform,” or “kidney-shaped,” has become common in descriptive language. The anterior surface looks laterally and forwards, and presents impressions corresponding to the viscera in contact with it; whilst the posterior surface is directed medially and backwards, and is moulded accurately upon the parts which support it. The extre?nities are round, but the superior end is usually thicker and more massive than the inferior. The lateral border, smooth and convex, is directed backwards and laterally; whilst the medial border is concave, and looks medially and forwards. The true form of the kidneys can only be seen in cases where they have been carefully hardened iti situ. The kidneys present many changes in form, according to the amount and the kind of pressure which is exerted upon them by contiguous viscera. In most cases, however, and on both sides there is on the anterior surface of the organ a point of maximum convexity—a place where the kidney substance is raised in the form of a marked prominence or bulging. Above and below this eminence the anterior surface falls away towards each extremity, in the form of an inclined or sloping plane of greater or less obliquity. These impressed districts indicate pressure exercised on the anterior surface of the kidney in two directions, and the intervening eminence is the result of this pressure and counterpressure. This characteristic is more constant and better marked in the case of the left kidney. Upon the upper inclined plane of the anterior surface of the left kidney are placed the left suprarenal gland, the stomach, the spleen, and the pancreas. These exercise a downward and backward pressure, chiefly through changes in the condition of the stomach. Upon the inferior inclined plane of the left kidney the counterpressure is produced by the intestinal canal, which, as a rule, presses upwards and backwards. Resting upon the upper inclined plane of the rij;ht kidney is the liver, whilst in contact with the lower inclined area is the colon. The colon pre.sses on the kidney in an upward and backward direction. To this pressure the liver oflers a passive resistance, except perhaps in the case of the slight influence which it conveys in a downward direction from theABDOMEN 528 diaphragm, and in a backward direction from the anterior abdominal wall. This pressure and counterpressure, which produce so marked a con- formation of the anterior surface of the two kidneys, must also exercise an important influence in maintaining the organ in its place, and securing it in that part of the abdominal cavity in which it lies. Still it is doubtful if these influences have so potent an effect on the right as on the left side. The right kidney is embedded to a greater or less extent in the liver, and this no doubt exerts an influence in fixing the organ in position. Ligaments fixing the kidney to the abdominal wall are described, and it is easy to demonstrate that the extra-peritoneal tissue in which it lies becomes condensed in the regions above and below into obscure ligamentous lamellae, but it is doubtful if these can have much effect in maintaining the kidney in its place. Pancreas Bile-duct Fig. 204.—Section through Abdomen at the level of the second lumbar vertebra. Hilus of th.6 Kidney.—The medial border of each kidney presents a longitudinal fissure called the hilus, for the admission and egress of the vessels, nerves, lymph vessels, and duct (Fig. 209). This is bounded anteriorly and posteriorly by a thick lip, and leads into a deep recess or cavity in the kidney, which is termed the 7-enal sinus. The ureter and the renal vessels enter the kidney between the lips of the hilus. They will be found to have the following general position from before backwards: (i) branches of the renal vein; (2) branches of the renal artery ; (3) ureter or renal duct. Anterior Surface of the flight Kidney. — The anterior surface of the right kidney may present three impressions, viz. a hepatic, a colic, and a duodenal. The hepatic impression,ABDOMINAL CAVITY which indicates the area of contact with the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, occupies almost the whole of the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface, and corresponds to the upper inclined plane. Over this district the kidney is some- times sunk deeply into the liver. The right suprarenal gland, which rests, as a rule, on the upper extremity of the right kidney, extends downwards, for a very short distance, on the anterior surface of the organ between it and the liver. With the exception of this narrow strip, immediately adjoining the Fig. 205.—Right Kidney and Duodenum. superior extremity, the hepatic impression on the anterior surface of the kidney is covered by peritoneum. The colic impression correspcftids to the inferior inclined plane, and sometimes it exhibits a marked degree of obliquity. The right colic flexure and the commencement of the transverse colon are in contact with this area. The posterior surfaces of these portions of great intestine are devoid of peritoneum, and bound to the kidney by areolar tissue. The duodenal impression, or area of contact with the second part of the duodenum, is in the neighbourhood of the hilus, and varies greatly both in position and extent (Fig. 205). Anterior Surface of the Left Kidney.—The left suprarenal VOL. I—3453° ABDOMEN gland, the spleen, the stomach, and the pancreas are in contact with the upper inclined plane on the anterior surface of the left kidney. The suprarenal gland, as a rule, occupies a narrow district along the medial border from the level of the hilus to the summit of the organ. The spleen is in contact over an area immediately adjoining the outer convex border. The extent of this splenic field varies considerably in different subjects. The pancreas stretches across the left kidney either immediately above, or perhaps exactly over, the eminence which intervenes between the two sloping surfaces on the Superior vessels Ureter Left colic flexure (O.T splenic flexure) Fig. 206.—Relations of the Left Kidney and the Pancreas. anterior aspect of the kidney. The stomach is in contact with the left kidney over the triangular interval which is left be- tween the suprarenal gland, the spleen,* and the pancreas, and this surface is covered by peritoneum of the omental bursa. The inferior sloping surface on the anterior aspect of the left kidney presents a varying relation to the intestinal canal. Towards the lateral border of the organ is the descend- ing colon, whilst the remainder of this surface is in relation to the coils of the small intestine. Posterior Surface of the Kidney.—This surface is mapped out into a medial and a lateral district. The medialABDOMINAL CAVITY 531 district is the narrower of the two, and looks medially and backwards. It is in apposition with the psoas muscle and the crus of the diaphragm, and a rounded ridge, which corresponds to the angle between the planes of the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, separates it from the lateral district. The lateral district looks backwards. In its upper third it rests on the diaphragm, and in its lower two-thirds upon the quadratus lumborum and the aponeurosis of origin of the transversus muscle. The upper end of the kidney curves slightly forwards in correspondence with the diaphragm on 1. Pancreas. 2. Splenic vein joining the portal vein. 3. Aorta giving oft the .superior mesenteric arterj’. 4. Rod in bile-duct. 5. Inferior vena cava. which it lies, and it should be borne in mind that between the diaphragm and the last rib the pleural cavity descends behind the kidney for a short distance (Fig. 208). In spare individuals, when the kidneys have been hardened in situ, dimples, corresponding to the tips of the transverse processes of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebra;, and a shallow groove for the last rib, may sometimes be detected on the posterior surface of the kidney. A furrow corresponding to the arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis is also not infrequently to be seen on the posterior aspect of the kidney. The student should never experience any difliculty in determining the side to which a given kidney belongs. Even allowing that the upper end cannot be distinguished from the lower end, or the anterior surface from the posterior surface, by differences in their appearance (which is frequently the case in a dissecting-room kidney), the ureter 1—34 aABDOMEN 532 alone is sufficient for the purpose. It shows the posterior surface from its position at the hilus, and the lower end from its curving downwards towards it. Kidney Capsule and Kidney Substance.—The kidney is invested by a strong fibrous coat, which can be easily stripped from its surface. Divide this capsule along the lateral margin of the organ and peel it off towards the hilus. Here it Crus of diaphragm Crus of diaphragm Arcus lumbo- costalis lateralis (O.T. external arcuate ligament) Diaphragm Liver Ascending colon In testine Arcus lumbo* costalis lateralis (O.T. external arcuate ligament) Diaphragm Fig. 208.—Dissection from behind to show the relation of the two Pleural Sacs to the Kidneys. Outline of upper portions of kidneys indicated by dotted lines. enters the renal sinus, lines its wall, and becomes continuous with the sheaths of the vessels entering the gland, and also with the external coat of the ureter. Examine the manner in which the ureter or duct is con- nected with the kidney. As it approaches the hilus it expands into a wide funnel-shaped portion called the pelvis (Fig. 209). This enters the sinus and divides into two, or perhaps three, large primary branches, and these again break up into a533 ABDOMINAL CAVITY large number of short stunted secondary divisions called calices or infundibula, which are attached to the walls of the sinus. The kidney should now be cut into two in the longitudinal direction. Use a large knife, and, entering it at the lateral border, carry it steadily through the gland sub- stance to the hilus. An examination of the cut surface of the kidney will show that its sub- stance is arranged in two parts — a medullary and a cortical. The medullary portion is seen to consist of dark-coloured, faintly striated pyramidal masses, the bases of which are directed to- wards the periphery, whilst their apices are free and project into the sinus. On the sinus wall each of these appears in the form of a pro- ^ —From a figure by Ma.x Brddel to show .,V the form of the Pelvis of the Ureter and the minent mammillary projection, called a renal papilla, which projects into one of the calices of the pelvis of the ureter (Fig. 2io). If the kidney be squeezed, fluid will be seen to exude from these papillae, showing that the tubuli uriniferi open upon their surface. The number of pyramids and renal papillae vary from eight to twenty. Usually there are more than twelve. A single calyx of the ureter may surround one, two, or even three renal papillae, and receive the urine which issues from the I—34i Cilices, as well as the relation of the main branches of the Renal Artery to these. The ureter, pelvis, calices, and arteries were injected with celloidin, and then the kidney substance was removed by means of a digesting fluid. It is thus a cast of the pelvis and calices which is represented, and the cupped appearance of each caly.x shows the manner in which the corre- sponding renal papilla projects into the calyx.ABDOMEN 534 R.P papillary ducts which open on their surface. The cortical substance constitutes the peripheral part of the gland, and also sends prolongations inwards between the pyramids. These are called the cohunnce renales (coltmms of Bertin). Ureter.—This is the duct which carries the urine from the kidney to the bladder. The relations of its expanded upper end or pelvis at the hilus of the kidney have already been noted. Leaving the gland, it turns downwards and becomes contracted, so that when it reaches the level of the lower end of the organ it has acquired the appearance of a cylindrical tube. Each ureter extends downwards and medially, on the anterior surface of the psoas magnus muscle of the same side, to the lower end of the common iliac artery, or the upper end of the external iliac artery ; there it leaves the abdomen proper and enters the pelvis, where its relations will be studied at a later period. As it dips into the pelvis the right ureter passes behind the termination of the ileum, and the left behind the pelvic colon ; and as it lies on the front of the psoas magnus muscle each ureter crosses obliquely in front of the genito-femoral nerve of the same side. The anterior relations of the abdominal parts of the c. Cut edge of a calyx of two ureters differ slightly from each the ureter. Other. The right ureter commences behind the second part of the duodenum, and crosses behind the commencement of the third part; both parts, therefore, separate it from the peritoneum. Below the duodenum it descends behind the peritoneum, from which it is partially separated by the right internal spermatic or ovarian vessels, the ileo-colic vessels, and the terminal parts of the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The whole of the abdominal portion of the left ureter is in relation in front with the peritoneum, except that it is crossed anteriorly, behind the peritoneum, by the left internal spermatic or ovarian vessels, the left colic vessels, and the left sigmoid vessels. Dissection.—Having now disposed of all the viscera within the cavity Fig. 210.—Diagram of two Renal Papillae. R.P. Renal papilla.535 ABDOMINAL CAAMTY 1—31 c of the abdomen proper, the student should, in the next place, direct his attention to the diaphragm—the great muscle which constitutes a mov- able partition between the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Strip the peritoneum from its lower concave surface, clean the muscular fibres and the central tendinous expansion towards which they ascend. In making this dissection be careful to preserve the inferior phrenic arteries which ramify upon this aspect of the diaphragm and also the nerves which accom- pany them. Diaphragma (Diaphragm).—The diaphragm, after the heart, is the most important muscle in the body. It forms the dome- shaped roof of the abdomen, and the highly arched and convex floor of the thorax. It is the chief muscle of respiration. Each respiratory act is accompanied by its descent and ascent, and in this way the capacity of the thoracic cavity is alternately increased and decreased in the vertical direction. The vault or cupola of the diaphragm is higher on the right side than upon the left side of the body. In forced expiration it rises on the right side as high as the upper margin of the fourth rib, close to the sternum ; whereas, on the left side, it only reaches the upper border of the fifth rib. The central portion of the diaphragm is tendinous. From this the fleshy fibres will be observed to radiate, and, at the same time, to arch downwards, so as to obtain attachment to the circumference of the lower aperture or outlet of the thorax. In fronts it takes origin from the back of the lowest segment of the sternum ; behind, it springs by two powerful partly fleshy and partly tendinous processes, called the crura, from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and upon each side of these from two ligamentous arches, termed the lumbo-costal arches (O.T. ligamenta arcuata) •, laterally, it arises from the lower six costal arches. Anterior Attachment.—The sternal origin consists of two slips which spring from the back of the xiphoid process. These are separated from each other by a narrow linear interval filled by areolar tissue, and comparable with the wider interval, in the medial plane behind, which separates the two crura of the diaphragm. Lateral Attachments. — The costal origin consists of six pointed and fleshy slips which spring from the deep surfaces of the lower six costal cartilages on each side. These inter- digitate with the digitations of the transversus abdominis. The sternal and costal origins of the diaphragm, on each side, are separated by a small triangular interval, in which the536 ABDOMEN pleural and peritoneal membranes are merely separated from each other by some loose areolar tissue. Through this gap the superior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery descends into the abdominal wall. Posterior Aitach77ient. — d’he arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis (O.T. liganientum arcuatum externuvi) is a fibrous band which stretches from the last rib to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. It arches in front of the quadratus lumborum, and is merely the thickened upper part of the fascia which covers that muscle, i.e. the antei'ior Fig. 211.—Posterior Surface of the Anterior Wall of the Thorax and Abdomen, to show the Costal and Sternal Origins of the Diaphragm on the left side. (From Luschka's Anatomy, modified.) 3. Xiphoid process. 8. Costal origin of diaphragm. 5. Transversus thoracis. 1 10. Linea alba. 6. Transversus abdomini.s. ii. Musculo-phrenic artery. 7. Sternal origin of diaphragm. lamella of the lumbar fascia. By pressing the rib backwards the arch will be rendered more prominent. The last dorsal nerve passes laterally and downwards under this ligamentous arch. The amis lumbo-costalis tuedialis (O.T. ligamentutti arcuatum ititernum) arches over the psoas magnus muscle, and, like the lateral arch, is simply a thickening of the fascia which covers the muscle. It is the stronger of the two, and is attached by one extremity to the tip of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and by the other to the body of the second lumbar vertebra and the tendinous part of the corresponding crus of the diaphragm. Fleshy fibres537 ABDOMINAL CAVITY arise from both of these arcuate bands; those from the medial arch are more numerous and better marked than those which take origin from the lateral arch, and they are continuous with the fleshy fibres of the crus. Very frequently a gap or interval exists between the fibres which spring from the lateral arch and those which arise directly from the last rib. The anterior, lateral, and posterior attachments of the diaphragm are therefore marked off by intervals from each other. The crura of the diaphragm are two thick fleshy processes which descend upon the bodies of the upper lumbar vertebrae, tapering as they proceed downwards. They end in pointed tendinous extremities. The right crus is the larger and longer of the two. It takes origin from the bodies of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, and the intervertebral discs which intervene between them. The left crus springs from the left side of the bodies of the first two lumbar vertebrae. It is much smaller, and lies upon a plane posterior to the right crus. Follow the crura upwards; opposite the last dorsal vertebra they will be observed to be connected across the middle line by a strong fibrous band which arches over the aorta. From the upper border of this fibrous arch fleshy fibres arise which join both crura, and on this account it is called the ligamentum arcuatum medium. It may be regarded as a law that wherever an artery pierces the origin or insertion of a muscle, and comes to lie between bone and muscular fibres, it is protected by a fibrous arch. Of this nature is the arch in question, and also the fibrous arch thrown over the superior profunda artery on the back of the humerus, and the fibrous arches in the adductor magnus for the passage of the perforating arteries, and the femoral artery itself. Above the level of the ligamentum arcuatum medium the fleshy fibres of the crura diverge and ascend to join the posterior border of the central tendon. The most medial fibres of each crus, however, decussate so as to separate the aortic from the oesophageal openings. The decussating fasciculus of the right crus is always the larger of the two, and moreover it usually passes behind the decussating fasciculus of the left crus. It is the custom of some authors to divide each crus into three parts, a lateral crus, an intermediate crus, and a medial crus. The lateral crus is formed by the fibres which spring from the medial lumbo-costal arch. It is separated from the intermediate crus by the sympathetic cord. The inter- mediate crus is separated from the medial crus by the splanchnic nerves. In many cases, however, the subdivisions are not distinct.538 ABDOMEN Centrum Tendineum (Central Tendon).—The central tendon is exceedingly strong. It is composed of tendinous bundles running in different directions, and closely woven together so as to give it a plaited appearance. This is well seen by an inspection of its abdominal surface. In shape the central tendon resembles a trefoil leaf, of which the right lobe is the largest, and the left lobe the smallest. Upon all sides it is surrounded by muscular fibres. Those which spring from the sternum are much the shortest. Foramina of the Diaphragm.—The continuity of the diaphragm is broken by three large openings, and by some smaller apertures’or fissures for the passage of the splanchnic nerves, and the vena hemiazygos. The three main open- ings receive the names of the most important objects which they transmit. They are— 1. The aortic. 2. The vena caval. 3. The oesophageal. Hiatus Aorticus {the aortic .opening is in the medial plane in front of the first lumbar vertebra, and between the crura of the diaphragm. It is bounded in front by the fibrous band which arches across the middle line and connects the tendinous portions of the two crura. The structures which pass through the aortic opening are—(i) the aorta, (2) the thoracic duct, and (3) the vena azygos major—in this order from left to right. Foramen Vence Cavce {the vena caval opening) is at a higher level, being situated opposite the disc between the eighth and the ninth dorsal vertebrae, in front and slightly to the right of the aortic opening. It is placed in the back part of the central tendon at the junction between its middle and right lobes. Its form is somewhat quadrangular, and its margins are prolonged upon the walls of the vena cava as it passes through it. The contraction of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm will therefore tend to increase the size of this opening and the calibre of the vein which it holds. In addition to the vena cava, one or two minute twigs from the right phrenic nerve may be transmitted through the vena caval opening. Hiatus (Esophageus {the oesophageal opening) is an oval or elliptical foramen in the muscular part of the diaphragm. It lies in front and slightly to the left of the aortic aperture.ABDOMINAL CAVITY 539 and also at a higher level, being placed opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. In some cases its upper or anterior border is tendinous, and formed by the posterior margin of the central tendon. Posteriorly it is separated from the aortic opening by the decussation of the medial fibres of the crura. The oesophageal opening transmits the gullet and the two vagi nerves. The three large openings of the diaphragm, therefore, present very different features. The aortic opening is a fibrous arch behind the diaphragm, and it can in no way be affected by the contraction of the muscular fibres. The ve7ia caval ope7iing is in the central tendon, and its margins are attached to the wall of the vessel which it transmits ; con- traction of the diaphragm must therefore have a tendency to open this aperture to its widest extent. The oesophageal ope7tmg is placed in the muscular part, and consequently it is probable that the fibres which surround it may be capable of exercising a constricting influence upon the oesophagus, and in this way help to prevent regurgitation of food during the descent of the diaphragm. Little need be said regarding the smaller foramina. Each crus is pierced by the three splatichnic fierves, and the left crus is likewise perforated by the hemiazygos vein. The superior epigastric artery descends in the interval between the sternal and costal attachments of the diaphragm, and the musciilo-phrettic artery passes between two slips of the costal attachment opposite the eighth or ninth rib. Vessels on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen. Dissection.—The abdominal aorta and its branches and the inferior vena cava must now be cleaned. In doing this, care should be taken of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic which extends downwards, on the vertebral column, along the anterior border of the psoas magnus. It is necessary to bear in mind that the lumbar branches of the aorta, as they proceed laterally, pass behhtd the sympathetic cord. Separate the right crus of the diaphragm from the aorta, and dissect in the interval between them. Here the cister7ia chyli and the vena azygos will be found. A chain of lymph glands, termed the hwibargla7tds, wilt be noticed in relation to the aorta. The only branches of the aorta which are liable to injury are the mternal spermatic arteries. These are two slender arteries which spring from the front of the vessel a short distance below the renal arteries. They are so small that they are apt to be overlooked. Aorta Abdominalis (Abdominal Aorta).—The abdominal aorta is the direct continuation of the thoracic aorta. It begins in the median plane, in the upper part of the aortic orifice of the diaphragm, in front of the lower border of the last dorsal vertebra, and it ends in front of the low'er borderABDOMEN 4. Internal spermatic or ovarian arteries. 4. The middle sacral. 54° of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the median plane, by dividing into the two com^yion iliac arteries. It therefore pursues an oblique course—inclining slightly to the left as it proceeds downwards. A line drawn between the highest points of the iliac crests would indicate the level of the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta; it takes place a little below and to the left of the umbilicus. Most of the structures which lie hi front of the abdominal aorta have been removed. In immediate relation to it from above downwards are:—(i) The coeliac plexus and the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the omental bursa. (2) The pancreas and splenic vein. (3) The left renal vein and the third part of the duodenum. (4) The root of the mesentery and the superior mesenteric vessels. (5) The peritoneum and the aortic plexus of nerves. Super- ficial to these it is covered by the liver, the lesser omentum and the stomach, the transverse colon and its mesentery, and by the greater omentum and the coils of the small intestine. Behind., the abdominal aorta rests upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae and the intervertebral discs, separated from them, however, by the anterior longitudinal ligament and the left lumbar veins. On each side it is related in its upper part to the crus of the diaphragm. On the right side the inferior vena cava lies close to the aorta as high as the second lumbar vertebra, but above this it is separated from it by the fleshy part of the right crus. In the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, the student has already noted the cisterna chyli and the vena azygos. On the left side, the left gangliated cord of the sympathetic is in relation to the artery below the level of the left crus. Branches of the Abdominal Aorta.—-The branches of the abdominal aorta may be described under two heads, viz.— (i) Those which come off in pairs. (2) Those which arise singly. Paired Branches. 1. Inferior phrenic arteries. 2. Middle suprarenal arteries. 3. Renal arteries. 5. Lumbar arteries. ^Vith the exception of the middle sacral, which arises from the back of the extremity of the aorta between the two Single Branches. 1. The coeliac artery. 2. The superior mesenteric. 3. The inferior mesenteric.54i ABDOMINAL CAVITY common iliacs, the single branches have already been described. The middle sacral artery will be examined when the pelvis is dissected. The paired branches may now be examined. Arteriae Phrenicse Inferiores (Inferior Phrenic Arteries). — These have already been noticed upon the under sur- face of the diaphragm. They are two in number, and are the first branches which spring from the abdominal aorta. Diverging from each other, the artery of the right side passes behind the inferior vena cava, whilst the artery of the left side goes behind the oesophagus. Near the posterior border of the central tendon of the diaphragm each divides into a lateral and a medial branch. The lateral branch pro- ceeds laterally to anastomose with the intercostal arteries, whilst the medial branch curves forwards in front of the central tendon, and ends by anastomosing with its fellow, and with the terminal branches of the internal mammary artery. Each phrenic artery, in addition to the branches which it supplies to the diaphragm, gives a twig, called the superior suprarenal artery^ to the suprarenal gland. On the left side it also sends a few minute branches to the oesophagus. The phrenic veins open into the inferior vena cava. Arterise Suprarenales Mediae (O.T. Middle Capsular Arteries).—The middle suprarenal arteries are two small vessels which arise, one from each side of the aorta, at the same level as the superior mesenteric. They run laterally and upwards, in front of the crura of the diaphragm, to the suprarenal glands, into the substance of which they sink. On the right side the middle suprarenal artery passes behind the inferior vena cava. They anastomose freely with the superior and inferior capsular arteries. The right siiprarenal vein opens into the inferior vena cava, whilst the left vein ends in the renal or phrenic vein. Arterise Renales (Renal Arteries).—When compared with the organs which they supply, the renal arteries are dispro- portionately large. Only a small part of the blood which they carry to the kidneys is used for the nourishment of the gland substance. The kidneys are excretory organs, and it is necessary that the blood should pass to them in large quantity in order that certain materials may be removed from it. The renal arteries take origin about a quarter of an inch below the superior mesenteric. Each artery proceeds laterally at right angles tO the aorta, and, approaching the kidney.542 ABDOMEN breaks up into three branches, which enter the hilus, and pass deeply into the renal sinus. It is overlapped by the accompanying vein. The right artery is placed at a slightly lower level than the left, and passes behind the. inferior vena cava. At the hilus two of the terminal branches as a rule lie between the renal vein and the pelvis of the ureter, whilst the third enters the sinus behind the pelvis of the ureter. In the renal sinus the three terminal branches break up into numerous smaller branches, which penetrate the kidney substance in the intervals between the renal papillae (Fig. 209, p. 533). The renal artery gives a small branch—the mferior suprarenal —to the suprarenal gland, and also numerous fine twigs to the connective tissue around the kidney. The renal veins join the inferior vena cava. The vein of the left side is the longer of the two. It lies behind the pancreas and crosses in front of the aorta. It receives a tributary from the left suprarenal gland; it is also joined by the left internal spermatic or ovarian vein. Arteriae Spermaticae Internae (O.T. Spermatic Arteries).— These are two long slender vessels which spring from the front of the abdominal aorta, a short way below the renal arteries. Diverging from each other, each artery passes obliquely downwards and laterally behind the peritoneum, to the abdominal inguinal ring, where it joins the other factors of the spermatic cord. As it descends it rests upon the psoas magnus, and crosses anterior to the ureter and the lower end of the external iliac artery. On the right side the internal spermatic artery passes in front of the vena cava inferior and behind the terminal part of the ileum. On the left side it proceeds downwards behind the iliac colon (Fig. 184). In the female the corresponding arteries go to the ovaries, and are consequently termed the ovariati aiieries. Within the abdomen proper they have the same relations as the spermatic arteries except that they cross the upper ends of the external iliac arteries. In the dissection of the female pelvis they will be followed to their destination. The right internal spermatic vein joins the inferior vena cava directly, whilst the left vein terminates in the left renal vein, 'rhe ovarian veins end in the same manner. Arteriae Lumbales (Lumbar Arteries).—Four in number on each side, they spring from the posterior aspect of the abdominal aorta, in series with the intercostal arteries. AtABDOMINAL CAVITY 543 present they are only seen in a very short part of their course. They proceed laterally upon the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, behind the gangliated cord of the sym- pathetic, and then disappear under cover of the psoas magnus muscle and the series of fibrous arches from which the muscle arises. The two upper arteries also pass behind the crura of the diaphragm, and on the right side they pass behind by the inferior vena cava. The liifnbar vems join the inferior vena cava, and those of the left side pass behind the aorta. Vena Cava Inferior.—This is the large vein which collects, by means of its tributaries, the venous blood from the lower limbs, the abdominal viscera, and a great part of the abdominal parietes. It is formed in front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, to the right of the median plane, by the union of the two common iliac veins. As it ascends it lies at first at the right side of the aorta in front of the bodies of the vertebrse and the medial part of the right psoas magnus, but it is separ- ated from the vertebral bodies by the anterior longitudinal ligament and the lower right lumbar arteries, and from the anterior border of the psoas magnus by the right sympathetic cord. Above the lower border of the second lumbar vertebra it is separated from the aorta by the right crus of the diaphragm. The right renal artery, the right coeliac ganglion, the right inferior phrenic artery, the right suprarenal artery, and the medial part of the anterior surface of the right suprarenal gland intervene between it and the crus. At its commence- ment it lies behind the right common iliac artery, then it is crossed by the root of the mesentery and the superior mesenteric vessels. For a short distance above the root of the mesentery it is in direct relation with the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the great sac. At the level of the third lumbar vertebra it is crossed by the third part of the duo- denum and the right internal spermatic or ovarian artery. Next the head of the pancreas and the pancreatico-duodenal arteries are in front of it and the bile-duct descends in front of its lateral border. Above the head of the pancreas it passes behind the first part of the duodenum, from which it is separated by the portal vein, then it ascends behind the epi- ■ ploic foramen, and finally it lies in the vena caval fossa on the posterior surface of the liver and the hepatic veins open into the uppermost part of its anterior surface.ABDOMEN 544 It receives the following tributaries :— 1. The common iliac veins. 2. The lumbar veins. 3. The right internal spermatic or ovarian vein. 4. The renal veins. 5. The right suprarenal vein. 6. The inferior phrenic veins. 7. The hepatic veins. Arterise Iliacse Communes (Common Iliac Arteries).—The two terminal branches of the aorta should next be examined. They arise upon the front of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra to the left of the median plane and, diverging from each other, proceed downwards and laterally upon the vertebral column. After a course of about two inches, each vessel ends opposite the sacro-iliac articulation at the level of the lumbo- sacral articulation by dividing into an external iliac and a hypo- gastric (O.T. internal iliac) branch ; of these the external iliac is the larger of the two, and appears to be the con- tinuation of the parent trunk, whilst the hypogastric passes downwards into the pelvis. The common iliac artery of each side is covered by peritoneum, and overlapped by coils of the small intestine; furthermore, it is crossed by the large sympathetic twigs which connect the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and, close to its termination, by the ureter. On the left side the superior haemorrhoidal vessels also pass in front of the common iliac artery. The left common iliac artery is in relation posteriorly with the bodies of the last two lumbar vertebrae, the left sympa- thetic cord and the medial margin of the psoas muscle. The right artery is separated from the vertebrae and the sympa- thetic cord by the two common iliac veins and the commence- ment of the inferior vena cava. No collateral branches of any consequence proceed from the common iliac artery. Venae Iliacae Communes (Common Iliac Veins). — The left co77imon iliac vein is much longer than the right, and stands in relation to both arteries of the same name. It first lies along the medial or right side of its companion artery, and on a posterior plane, then it passes behind the upper part of the right artery to reach the vena cava inferior. The right common iliac vein lies behind its companion artery, and behind the upper part of the artery it joins with the leftABDOMINAL CAVLl'Y 545 vein to form the inferior vena cava. Each common iliac vein is formed by the junction of the external iliac vein and the hypogastric vein. The common iliac vein of each side is joined by the ilio- lumbar vein. The left common iliac vein also receives the middle sacral vein. Arteria Iliaca Externa (External Iliac Artery).—This vessel is the first or abdominal portion of the great arterial trunk which carries blood to the lower limb. It begins opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, at the level of the lumbo-sacral articulation, and extends obliquely downwards and laterally, along the brim of the small pelvis, to the inguinal ligament, behind which it passes into the thigh, and becomes the fetnoral artery. Its course is indicated on the surface by Ihe lower two-thirds of a line drawn from a point a little below and to the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The upper third of the line indicates the position of the common iliac artery. The external iliac, like the common iliac artery, is closely covered by peritoneum. The right artery passes behind the terminal part of the ileum, and the left behind the pelvic colon. Towards its termination each external iliac artery is crossed by the deep circumflex iliac vein, and the external spermatic nerve (O.T. genital branch of genito-crural). In the male this part of the artery is also crossed by the ductus deferens and the internal spermatic vessels, and in the female by the round ligament of the uterus. At first the external iliac artery rests upon the medial margin of the psoas magnus muscle, but close to the inguinal ligament it comes to lie directly in front of that muscle. The artery is separated from the muscle, however, by the iliac fascia, to which it is bound down by a condensed part of the extra-peritoneal tissue, which passes over it. The external spermatic nerve lies along the lateral side of the artery, and the companion vein is placed on its medial side; on the right side, however, the vein, as it passes upwards, gradually comes to lie behind the artery. The external iliac gives off two large branches to the abdominal wall, viz.—(i) the inferior epigastric; (2) the deep circumflex iliac. They arise close to the inguinal ligament, and have both been examined (pp. 404, 405). The veins corre- sponding to these arteries open into the external iliac vein. VOL. I—35ABDOMEN 546 Vena Iliaca Externa (External Iliac Vein).—This, the con- tinuation of the femoral vein, enters the pelvis by passing up- wards behind the inguinal ligament. It lies at first along the medial side of the artery of the same name, but on a plane somewhat posterior to it, and higher up on the right side it gets completely behind the artery. At the level of the lumbo- sacral articulation it ends by joining the hypogastric vein in the formation of the common iliac vein. Immediately before its termination it passes to the lateral side of the hypogastric artery—between the artery and the psoas magnus muscle. Its tributaries are the veins corresponding to the deep circum- flex iliac artery and the inferior epigastric artery. Deep Lymph Glands. — The dissector has, doubtless, noticed a chain of lymph glands in connection with the external iliac artery, the common iliac artery, and also extend- ing upwards upon the vertebral column in relation to the aorta and inferior vena cava. The exterrial iliac glafids are in two groups—a lower and an upper. The former consists of three glands placed one on each side and one in front of the external iliac artery, and immediately above the inguinal liga- ment. The medial gland receives the deep femoral lymphatic vessels; into the anterior gland' is poured the lymph which is drained from the district supplied by the inferior epigastric artery; whilst the lateral gland receives the lymph from the district supplied by the deep circumflex iliac artery. The efferent vessels from the lower group enter the higher group of glands, and from these the lymph is passed on to the common iliac and lumbar glands. The glands in relation to either side of the aorta and inferior vena cava are both numerous and large, and are called the media7i lumbar gla?ids. Their efferent vessels terminate in two common lumbar lymphatic trunks, which open into the cisterna chyli. Cisterna Chyli (O.T. Receptaculum Chyli).—This is the dilated commencement of the thoracic duct. It is placed upon the bodies of the first and second lumbar vertebra;, in the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta. ']’o bring it into view, it is necessary to separate the right crus from the lumbar vertebras and pull it aside. When fully dis- played, the cisterna chyli is seen to be a narrow elongated sac, about two inches in length, which receives at its lower end the two common lumbar lymphatic trunks, whilst547 ABDOMINAL CAVITY superiorly, it contracts and becomes the thoracic duct. About its middle it is joined anteriorly by the intestinal trunk. Entering it near its upper end are two lymph trunks which come from the lower intercostal glands; they reach it by passing downwards through the aortic opening. The vena azygos lies along its right side, but the cisterna chyli is easily distinguished from this by the whiteness of its walls. The thoracic duct enters the thorax by passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. The Azygos Vein.—The azygos vem (O.T. vena azygos major) usually takes origin in the right ascending lumbar vein. It will be found in the interval between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, upon the right side of the cisterna chyli, and it will be noticed to enter the thorax by passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. The Hemiazygos Vein (O.T. Vena Azygos Minor Inferior) is more difficult to discover. It originates on the left side of the spine, in the left ascending lumbar vein, and enters the thorax by piercing the left crus of the diaphragm. Fascia and Muscles on the Posterior Wall OF the Abdomen. The muscles on the posterior wall of the abdomen are three in number, viz.—(i) the psoas fuagnus, an elongated fleshy mass extending downwards on the side of the spine; (2) the qtcadraius lumborum, a quadrate muscle external to the psoas, and stretching between the crest of the ilium and the last rib; (3) the iliacus, situated in the iliac fossa. The fascia which covers these muscles must be studied first. Quadratus Lmnborum Fascia.—Follow this medially and it will be found to be attached to the medial ends of the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Trace it laterally and it will be noticed to join the posterior aponeurosis of the transversus abdominis muscle. From these connections the dissector will understand that this fascia is simply the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. Above, it is fixed to the last rib, and is thickened so as to form the arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis, whilst inferiorly it is attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament. The quadratus lumborum muscle, therefore, is enclosed in a sheath formed anteriorly by theABDOMEN 548 anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, and posteriorly by the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia (Fig. 148, p. 395). Fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus.—This is one con- tinuous aponeurotic sheet. Above the level of the crest of the ilium, where it is merely in relation to the psoas, it is thin and narrow. Here it is attached laterally to the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum, whilst medially it is fixed to the spine by a series of fibrous arches which bridge over the lumbar arteries. Superiorly, it has been seen to form the thickened band termed the arcus lumbo-costalis medialis. Below the fascia expands so as to cover both the psoas and the iliacus, and at the same time it becomes much denser and thicker. Here it receives the name of the fascia iliaca, and presents most important connections. The external iliac vessels lie upon it, whilst the femoral nerve lies behind it. The lumbo-inguinal nerve pierces it, and comes into relation with the external iliac artery. Laterally it is firmly fixed to the crest of the ilium, whilst medially it sweeps over the psoas, and is attached to the brim of the small pelvis. These attachments can be easily demonstrated by dividing it in the vertical direction, over the iliacus, a short way to the lateral side of the psoas. It is very loosely attached to the subjacent muscles, so that the fingers can readily be passed behind it, first in a lateral and then in a medial direction. Note that no perceptible fascial partition dips backwards from it between the psoas and iliacus. The inferior connections of this fascia have already been studied (p. 183). On the lateral side of the iliac vessels it has been seen to become continuous with the fascia transversalis, and, at the same time, to be attached to the inguinal ligament; whilst behind these vessels it is carried downwards into the thigh, to form the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Surgical Anatomy.—The attachments of the ilio-psoas fascia are of high surgical importance. When an abscess forms in connection with the lumbar vertebrae the pus readily passes downwards within the psoas sheath, and in certain cases is conducted behind the inguinal ligament so as to point in the thigh. It cannot enter the pelvis owing to the attachment of the fascia iliaca to the ilio-pectineal line. Dissection.—The muscles should now be cleaned and their attachments defined ; but, in doing this, certain points must be attended to. The medial portion of the fascia iliaca must be carefully preserved, in order that its relation to the pelvic fascia may be afterwards made out. In the case ofABDOMINAL CAVITY 549 the psoas muscle, care must be taken not to injure—(i) tlie sympathetic cord, which lies along its anterior margin ; (2) the lumbo inguinal nerve, which runs downwards in front of it; {3) the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh, which appears at its lateral border, and the femoral nerve, which lies in the interval between it and the iliacus muscle. In the case of the quadratus lumborum, bear in mind that the last thoracic nerve runs laterally in front of this muscle, close to the lower border of the last rib, and that the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves cross it obliquely at a lower level. M. Quadratus Lumborum.—This muscle arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the crest of the ilium behind it. It likewise receives two or three slips from the transverse processes of a corresponding number of the lower lumbar vertebrae. Narrowing slightly, as it passes upwards, it is inserted into the medial half of the last rib, behind the arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis, and by four tendinous slips into the tips of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae. M. Psoas Magnus (O.T. Psoas).—This muscle has three distinct series of origins from the side of the vertebral column:—(i) by five fleshy processes from the anterior surfaces and lower borders of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae close to their roots; (2) by five slips, each of which arises from the intervertebral disc and the con- tiguous margins of the bodies of two vertebrae—the first slip springing from the last thoracic and the first lumbar vertebrae and the intervening disc, and the last slip from the two lower lumbar vertebrae and their intervening disc; (3) from the tendinous arches which bridge over the lumbar arteries and protect these vessels from the pressure of the contracting muscle. The psoas tapers somewhat as it extends downwards along the brim of the pelvis, and a tendon appears on its lateral border, which affords attachment to the fibres of the iliacus. Passing behind the inguinal ligament, it is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Another muscle, called the psoas parvus, is occasionally present. This springs from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra:, and the intervertebral disc between them, and, stretching downwards upon the anterior and medial aspect of the psoas magnus, it ends in a tendon which is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and ilio-pectineal line. Iliacus.—This muscle arises from the upper part of the iliac fossa, the anterior ilio-sacral ligament, and the base of the sacrum. It is inserted into the tendon of the psoasABDOMEN 55° magnus. Some of its fibres, however, have a separate insertion into an impression below the lesser trochanter of the femur. Nerves on the Posterior Wall of the Abdomen. The nerves on the posterior wall of the abdomen are the gangliated cord of the sympathetic and the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves, with the branches which proceed from them. These should now be dissected. Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic. — On each side this enters the abdomen behind the arcus lumbo-costalis medialis, and extends downwards upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae along the anterior border of the psoas magnus muscle. Above it is continuous with the thoracic portion of the cord, whilst beloiv it passes behind the common iliac artery and enters the pelvis. In the thorax, it is placed upon the heads of the ribs; in the abdomen, however, it lies nearer the median plane, being carried forwards by the psoas magnus muscle. On the right side, it is in great part covered by the inferior vena cava, and on both sides the lumbar vessels pass laterally behind it. As a general rule, a small oval ganglion is formed upon the body of each lumbar vertebra. Ratni co77imunicantes and peripJm-al bra7iches op distributio7i proceed from the ganglionic cord. The ra77ii C077i77iu7iica77tes connect the ganglia with the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar spinal nerves. One or more will be found accompanying each lumbar artery. Trace them backwards by cutting through the fibrous arches which bridge over these vessels and scraping away the fibres of the psoas muscle. They join the lumbar nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. The rami communicantes consist of two sets, viz. white and grey. . The white ra/?ii co/zimu/iicanies are composed of medullated fibres wliich pass from the spinal nerves to the gangliated cord. In the lumbar region there are only two or at most three of these, and they proceed from the upper two or three lumbar nerves. The gi-ey ra/ni coi/n/iunicauies are much more numerous, and are formed of fibres which stream out in an irregular manner from the sympathetic cord to all the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar' nerves. The pe7’ipheral bra7iches of disfribtttmi consist of a large number of small filaments which arise irregularly from the lumbar gangliated cord and pass medially to the aortic plexus.551 ABDOMINAL CAVITY Dissection.—To bring the anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves into view, it is necessary to scrape away the psoas muscle. This has already been partially done in following the connecting sympathetic twigs backwards. An occasional branch, the accessory obturator, is liable to injury unless it be secured at once. When present, it will be found descending along the medial border of the psoas. Lumbar Nerves.—The anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves are five in number, and pass laterally in the substance of the psoas muscle. They increase in size from above downwards, and each nerve is joined by one or more twigs from the sympathetic cord. Branches are given by them to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. The first three lumbar nerves, with a part of the fourth, unite in a loop-like manner to form the lumbar plexus, whilst the remaining part of the fourth joins the fifth to form the lumbosacral cord. The fourth lumbar nerve is frequently called the nervus furcalis, seeing that it enters into the forma- tion of both the lumbar and sacral plexuses. Plexus Lumbalis (Lumbar Plexus).—This plexus is placed in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae in the substance of the psoas magnus. Above it is usually connected with the last thoracic nerve by a small twig, which descends in the substance of the psoas, to the first lumbar nerve ; below it is brought into communication with the sacral plexus by the branch of the fourth nerve, which enters into the forma- tion of the lumbo-sacral cord. The following are the branches which proceed from the lumbar plexus:— 2' } derived from 1st lumbar nerve. 3. Genito-femoral, ,, 1st and 2nd lumbar nerves. 4. Lateral cutaneous of thigh, ,, 2nd and 3rd lumbar nerves. 5. Obturator, ,, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbar nerves. 6. Femoral, ,, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th lumbar nerves. 7. Muscular branches to the quadratus lumborum and psoas magnus muscles which ari.se somewhat irregularly. The manner in which these nerves spring from the plexus may now be studied. The first lumbar trunk breaks up into three branches, viz. the ilio-hypogastric, the ilio-inguinal, and the upper root of the genito-femoral. The second, third, and fourth lumbar trunks each divide into an anterior and a posterior division. The three anterior divisions are smaller than the others, and they unite to form the obturator nerve; the three large posterior divisions unite to form the femoral I—35 a552 ABDOMEN nerve. But other branches come off from certain of these divisions. Thus, the lower root of the genito-femoral springs from the anterior division of the second lumbar nerve, whilst the two roots of the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thigh take origin from the posterior divisions of the second and third lumbar trunks. The ilio-hypogastric nerve emerges from the lateral border of the psoas, and crosses the quadratus lumborum obliquely. T.Xil Quadratus lumborum — Intertransverse muscles Quadratus ^ ^ lumborum Intertransverse muscles Quadratus I- lumborum Psoas —. Ull Quadratus lumborum Psoas Quadratus^^ lumborum— Genito-femoral nerve (O.T. genito-crural) Lumbo-sacral trunk Lumbo-inguinal nerve (O.T. crural branch of genito- crural) External spermatic nerve (O.T. genital branch of genito-crural) Last thoracic nerve Lateral branch Anterior branch Ilio-hypogastric nerve Lateral branch Anterior branch Ilio-inguinal nerve Lateral cutaneous nerve of thigh (O.T. external cutaneous) Branch to iliacus Femoral nerve (O.T. anterior crural) Accessory obturator nerve I—Obturator nerve Fig. 212.—Diagram of Lumbar Plexus. Reaching the crest of the ilium, it leaves the abdomen by piercing the transversus abdominis muscle. Its further course has already been studied (p. 394). It gives off an iliac bra7ich to the skin of the glutfeal region, and a hypogastric brattch to the skin over the lower part of the abdominal wall. The ilio-itiguinal nerve is smaller than the ilio-hypogastric, and leaves the psoas almost at the same point. It runs obliquely downwards and laterally over the quadratus lum- borum and the upper part of the iliacus, and disappears from553 ABDOMINAL CAVITY view by piercing the transversus abdominis muscle a little way in front of the ilio-hypogastric. It is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and the medial aspect of the proximal part of the thigh (pp. 174 and 394). The nerviis genito-femoralis (O.T. genito-crural nerve) is directed forwards through the psoas, and, appearing upon its anterior aspect, ends by dividing into a lumbo-inguinal, and an external spermatic branch. The external sperfuatic branch proceeds downwards and medially. It crosses the external iliac artery obliquely, and reaches the abdominal inguinal Lateral cutaneous Iliacus Twelfth Last thoracic nerve I IHo-inguinal Genito-femoral Quadratus lumborum Femoral Luinbo'sacral cord Ilio-hypogastric Ilio-inguinal Genito-femoral Lateral cutaneous — Femoral Obturator Lumbo-sacral cord Fig. 213.—The Lumbar Ple.vus (semi-diagrammatic). ring. There it comes into relation with the constituents of the spermatic cord, and, leaving the abdomen, is distributed to the cremaster muscle. In the female this branch is very small, and ends in the round ligament of the uterus and the labium pudendi. The lumbo-inguinal branch runs downwards along the lateral side of the external iliac artery, and, crossing the deep circumflex iliac artery, passes behind the inguinal ligament. It supplies a limited portion of the skin on the front of the thigh. d'he 71. cutatieus femoris lateralis (O.'I'. e.xternai cutaneous nerve) emerges from the lateral border of the psoas aboutABDOMEN 554 its middle, and descends obliquely across the iliacus muscle, behind the fascia iliaca, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. At this point it leaves the abdomen by passing behind the inguinal ligament. It supplies the skin upon the lateral and anterior aspect of the thigh. The nervus femoralis (O.T. a7iterior crural nerve) is the largest branch of the plexus. It runs downwards in the interval between the psoas and iliacus, and passes out of the abdomen behind the inguinal ligament. It gives a branch to the iliacus muscle. The n. obturatorius {pbhirator nerve) emerges from the medial border of the psoas, where this muscle reaches the brim of the small pelvis, and extends forwards upon the inner surface of the wall of the small pelvis, a short way below the ilio-pectineal line of the innominate bone. At the upper part of the obturator foramen it joins the artery of the same name, and, escaping from the pelvis, enters the thigh. A small nerve, the accessory obturator^ is occasionally to be found. It may spring either directly from the obturator or from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It proceeds down- wards along the medial side of the psoas, and it enters, the thigh by passing over the pubic bone under cover of the pectineus. In the thigh it gives branches to the hip-joint, and unites with the obturator nerve. It occasionally supplies a twig to the pectineus muscle. Truncus Lumbosacralis (Lumbo-sacral Cord).—This large nerve trunk is formed by the union of the anterior primary division of the fifth lumbar nerve with the descending branch of the fourth lumbar nerve. It passes downwards over the base of the sacrum into the pelvis, and joins the sacral plexus. Last Thoracic Nerve.—The anterior primary division of this nerve will be found running laterally in front of the quadratus lumborum, and under cover of the fascia spread over that muscle, along the lower border of the last rib. Near the spine it sends a small offset downwards to the first lumbar nerve, and at the lateral border of the quadratus lumborum it pierces the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, and then passes forwards in the abdominal wall between that muscle and the internal oblique. Its course and distribution in the wall of the abdomen have already been described (P- 394)- Arteriae Lumbales (Lumbar Arteries).—These have been555 ABDOMINAL CAVI'l'Y traced to the medial border of the psoas. They are now observed to pass backwards behind this muscle to the intervals between the transverse processes of the vertebras, where each gives off a dorsal branch. Each dorsal branch runs backwards, between the transverse processes, and, after giving a spinal branch which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen, it ends in the muscles and integument of the back. After givingoff their ^^ri’a/branches the trunks of thearteries, with the exception of the last, proceed laterally behind the quadratus lumborum, and are then directed forwards between the internal oblique and transversus muscles, where they anastomose, above with the intercostal arteries, below with the deep circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries, and in front with the branches of the superior and inferior epigastric arteries. The last abdominal branch, as a rule, passes in front of the quadratus lumborum. Vense Lumbales (LumbarVeins).—These vessels accompany the corresponding arteries, and pour their blood into the inferior vena cava. The veins of the left side pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins of each side are linked together, in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae, by anastomosing channels which form a continuous longitudinal vessel, called the ascending lumbar vein. By its upper end this venous trunk is connected with the corresponding azygos vein. Last Thoracic or Subcostal Artery.—At this stage of the dissection the subcostal artery, the last parietal branch of the thoracic aorta, will be seen crossing the upper part of the quadratus lumborum in company with the last thoracic nerve. It lies in series with the abdominal branches of the lumbar arteries. Dissection.—The lower limbs having, by this time, been removed from the trunk, the pelvis also may be detached. Place a ligature around the aorta and inferior vena cava at the level of the bifurcation of the former, and divide them immediately above this point. Then carry the knife through the intervertebral disc which intervenes between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, and, having cut the nerves and soft parts, complete the separation of the pelvis from the remainder of the trunk by means of the saw. PELVIS. The pelvis, using the term in its widest sense, is the region bounded posteriorly by the sacrum and coccyx, and laterally556 ABDOMEN and anteriorly by the innominate bones. 'I’he bony wall is deficient, on each side posteriorly, between the sacrum and coccyx behind and the innominate bone in front. This interval is partially filled in by the ligamentum sacro-tuberosum (O.T. great sacro-sciatic ligament) and the ligamentum sacro- spinosum (O.T. small sacro-sciatic ligament) which divide it into the great and small sacro-sciatic foramina. Anteriorly, on each side, the bony wall is broken by the obturator foramen, which is closed by the obturator membrane, and directly in front there is a gap, the pubic arch, which is occupied by the uro-genital diaphragm and its fasciae (O.T. triangular ligament). The area thus enclosed is separated into an upper and a lower part by an imaginary plane, the plane of the pelvic brim. The margins of this plane are the ilio-pectineal lines of the innominate bones and the promontory of the sacrum. The part above the plane is the pelvis major (O.T. false pelvis), which has already been studied as part of the abdomen. The part below the plane is the pelvis minor (O.T. true pelvis). The inner aspect of the wall of the small pelvis is partially covered by the following muscles. Posteriorly, on the front of the sacrum, are the two piriformes muscles. Laterally, on the inner surface of each hip bone, is the obturator mternus muscle. Anteriorly is the uro-genital diaphragm formed by the deep transverse perineal muscles and the sphincter urethra membi-anacece. The inner surfaces of these muscles and the intervening skeletal structures are covered by a continuous layer of fascia, the parietal pelvic fascia. The wall of the pelvis minor may, therefore, be regarded as consisting of three strata, viz.-—i. A bony stratum. 2. A muscular stratum. 3. A membranous stratum. The small pelvis is separated into an upper part and a lower part by the pelvic diaphragm, and the fascia covering it. The pelvic diaphragm is formed by the two levatores ani and the two coccygei muscles. In the following account the upper part will be spoken of as the pelvis. The lower part has already been called the perineum. The pelvis as thus defined is the smaller, basin-shaped, lower part of the abdominal cavity. It communicates with the upper portion or pelvis major through a somewhat constricted aperture, the pelvic inlet. The contents of the pelvic cavity differ in the two sexes; in both, however, the bladder occupies the fore-part of thePELVIS 557 space, and the rectum and pelvic colon the posterior part. The difference is to be found in the generative organs and their blood-vessels. It is necessary, therefore, to describe the male and the female pelvis separately. Male Pelvis. The male pelvis contains the following structures ;— f The rectum and the pelvic colon. ^ The bladder, with the lower portions of the ureters, V the prostate, and the prostatic part of the urethra. V The ducti deferentes and the vesiculae seminales. * I The hypogastric vessels and their branches and I tributaries. I The superior hfemorrhoidal vessels. I Venous plexuses associated with the viscera. 1 The pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic system and their offshoots. I The obturator nerves. f The extraperitoneal fat. I The pelvic part of the peritoneum. The following structures lie between the pelvic fascia and the bony and muscular strata of the pelvic wall:— ( The middle sacral vessels. Blood- Vessels. I The parietal branches of the hypogastric vessels [ after they have pierced the fascia. Nerves ^ sacral and sacro-coccygeal plexuses. I The pelvic parts of the sympathetic cords. General Position of the Viscera.—The pelvic colon and the rectum occupy the back part of the cavity, the colon extending in flexuous curves from the left margin of the pelvic inlet to the middle of the third piece of the sacrum, where it becomes the rectum. The rectum follows the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, and runs forwards to the base of the bladder. The bladder lies in the front part of the cavity behind the pubic bones, and in front of the rectum. The seminal vesicles lie in a plane between the bladder and the rectum, and the ducti deferentes (O.T. vasa deferentia)., having crossed the brim, behind the origins of the inferior epigastric arteries, run downwards and backwards, and then turn medially, across the ureters, to gain the ba.se of the bladder ' Strictly speaking, the Ijladcler, the prostate, the seminal vesicles, and the lower parts of the rectum, ducti deferentes and ureters arc not in the pelvis, for they are embedded in the pelvic fascia and therefore lie in the pelvic wall. Viscera. Blood- Vessels. Nerves. Other Structures.ABDOMEN 558 to the medial sides of the seminal vesicles. The pelvic portions of the ureters can be seen descending, outside the peritoneum, along the front of the hypogastric arteries, and turning medially, below the ductus deferentes, towards the base of the bladder. The prostate lies below the bladder and encloses the prostatic part of the urethra (Fig. 214). The Pelvic Peritoneum.—The peritoneum passes into the Ureter Prostate Empty bladder Symphysis pubis Retro-pubic pad of fat Corpus caver- nosum penis Corpus cavernosum urethrm Ductus deferens Middle peri toneal fossa Pararectal fossa Rectum Sacro-genitj fold Ductus deferens Anal canal I Lateral wall of pelvis Paravesical fossa Reflection of peritoneum Hulbo-ureth gland ter ani Fig. 214.—Medial section through the Pelvis. 'I'he bladder, wliich is empty, does not present the usual form. pelvis through the inlet, and gives partial or complete coverings to various pelvic viscera. It covers the upper surface of the bladder, and passes from the lateral borders of that surface to the lateral walls of the pelvic cavity as the lateral false ligametiis of the bladder. Turning over the posterior border of the upper surface of the bladder, it descends, for a slight distance, on the fundus or base of the viscus, and then, if the bladder is empty, it projects backwards as a semi- lunar ledge or fold, the sacro-geiiital fold. In the middle portion of this fold arc enclosed the seminal vesicles and559 PELVIS parts of the ductus deferentes. The lateral borders of the fold curve backwards to the sacrum, passing at some little distance from the sides of the rectum. From the lower surface of the sacro-genital fold the peritoneum passes to the front of the rectum, on which it is reflected upwards to the pelvic colon. Below the line of reflection from the sacro- genital fold there is a part of the rectum entirely devoid of any peritoneal covering. The part immediately above this is covered only in front, but at a higher level the front and the sides also are covered, and when the pelvic colon is reached the peritoneum entirely surrounds that part of the gut and attaches it to the posterior wall of the pelvis by a fold or mesentery, the pelvic meso-colon. The hollow or pouch between the sacro-genital fold in front and the rectum behind is the recto-vesical or recto-genital excavation. The Peritoneal Fossae.—As the peritoneum follows the contours of the more projecting viscera, three hollows or secondary pouches are formed on each side: an anterior or paravesical^ a middle or genital, and a posterior or pararectal. The paravesical fossa is bounded medially by the bladder, laterally by the pelvic wall, and posteriorly by a ridge of peritoneum, caused by the ureter, which runs backwards and outwards from the postero-lateral angle of the upper surface of the bladder towards the hypogastric artery. Beneath the floor of this fossa the ductus deferens runs medially towards the genital fossa. The genital fossa lies between the ureteral ridge and the margin of the sacro-genital fold; and the para- rectal fossa is between the sacro-genital fold and the side of the rectum. The two pararectal fossae are continuous with each other across the front of the rectum and form together the recto-vesical excavation. When the rectum is distended the peritoneum of the pararectal fossae is lifted up to cover the expanding wall of the viscus, the fossae are obliterated, and the posterior ends of the sacro-genital folds terminate on, or in close relation with, the wall of the rectum. When the bladder is distended the middle part of the sacro- genital fold is also opened out to help to cover the upper part of the fundus of the bladder, but the lateral parts remain. If, however, the bladder and rectum are simultane- ously distended the lateral parts of the sacro-genital fold pass from the back of the bladder either to the rectum or to the posterior wall of the pelvis close to the rectum,56o abdomen and under these conditions the folds in question were formerly 20 19 Fig. 215.—The Peritoneum of the Pelvic Cavity. The upper part of the posterior wall of the pelvis has been removed to show more clearly the disposition of the peritoneum within its cavity. (Dixon and Birmingham.) 1. Ductus deferens. 2. Umbilical artery. 3. Inferior epigastric artery. 4. Iliac vessels. 5. Obturator nerve. 6. Umbilical artery. 7. Ureter. 8. Third sacral vertebra. 9. Lower part of pelvic meso-colon. 10. Rectum. 11. Pararectal fossa. 12. Sacro-genital fold. 13. Lateral portion of middle fossa. 14. Obturator fossa. 15. Trigonum femorale. 16. Paravesical foss.a. 17. Median portion of middle fossa. 18. Plica vesicalis iransversa. 19. Urachus. 20. Bladder. described as the recto-vesical folds or posterior false ligaments of the bladder.561 PELVIS The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—The false ligaments of the bladder are parts of the pelvic peritoneum. When the bladder is empty a fold extends from the anterior end of its upper surface, the apex of the bladder, to the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall. This is the plica umbilicalis media (O.T. superior false ligament) of the bladder. It separates the right and left paravesical and supravesical fossae from each other, and is caused by the projection of the ligamentum uhibilicale medium formed by the urachus or fibrous remnant of the allantois. The peritoneum, extending from each lateral border of the upper surface of the bladder to the side wall of the pelvis, constitutes a lateral false liga- ment, and forms the floor of the corresponding paravesical fossa. Not uncommonly each lateral false ligament and the peritoneum on the upper surface of the bladder are divided into anterior and posterior portions by a transverse fold, the plica vesicalis transversa, which crosses from one side of the pelvic brim to the other. It is questionable if the term posterior false ligament should be retained ; it is still applied, however, to the remnants of the sacro-genital folds which extend from the back of the distended bladder to the sides of the distended rectum, or to the front of the sacrum. Dissection from above.—All the peritoneum above the level of the pelvic brim should now be removed, care being taken not to injure or displace the ureter or the ductus deferens. The dissector should then stitch the ureter to the artery it crosses at the brim, common or external iliac as the case may be. He must also stitch the ductus deferens to the external iliac artery close to the origin of the inferior epigastric branch. This being done, he must carefully detach the peritoneum from the extraperitoneal fat, separating any adhesions with the knife. The separation should be commenced at the brim, and be carried medially until the root of the pelvic meso-colon, the side of the rectum, and the lateral border of the upper surface of the bladder are reached. When this has been done on both sides, the dissector should displace the bladder backwards, and pass his finger down between the viscus and the symphysis, through the soft extraperitoneal fat, till it meets a resisting membrane. This is the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia or upper layer of the fascia of the pelvic diaphragm. By his sense of touch the dissector will recognise not only that it is attached to the lower part of the posterior surface of the symphysis, but also that two thickened bands of its substance extend backwards, one on each side of the medial plane, from the back of the symphysis to the anterior border of the bladder. These bands are the anterior true ligaments of the bladder or the medial pubo-prostatic ligaments, the latter name indicating that, in the male, they are placed above the prostate. Having satisfied himself regarding these ligaments the dissector should carry his finger backwards, between the bladder and the wall of the pelvis, displacing the soft fat, until he touches the ureter. The region which he will thus investigate is the lower and anterior part of a large area, known as the cccve of Retzius, in which the extraperitoneal fat has very slight attachment either to the peritoneum or to the pelvic fascia, and in which, therefore, it is very easily displaced. The area extends from the hypogastric artery of one side round the front of the bladder to the hypogastric artery of the opposite side, downwards to the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, and upwards between the umbilical (O.T. obliterated hypogastric) arteries to the umbilicus. The facility with which he displaces the fatty tissue should demonstrate to the dissector how easy, in this area, will be the spread of urine effused from a ruptured bladder, or of blood running from a divided artery, or of effusions due to inflammatory conditions. The dissector must now remove the extraperitoneal fat first from the ductus deferens, then from VOL. I—36S62 ABDOMEN the region of the ureter, and afterwards from the hypogastric vessels and their branches and tributaries. Whilst this is being done, the obturator nerve will be brought into view to the lateral side of the ureter, and below the level of the umbilical artery. Whilst removing the fat and displaying the structures embedded in its substance, the dissector must be careful not to injure either the parietal or the visceral pelvic fascia. He will find that some of the branches of the hypogastric artery pierce the parietal fascia as they leave the pelvis, and that the visceral branches, the rectum, the ureter, and the ductus deferens, pass into the substance of the visceral layer. When the dissection is completed the student should note the relative positions of the structures he has exposed. The ductus deferens will be seen passing downwards and backwards, on the side wall of the pelvis, till it meets the ureter, which is passing downwards, from the junction of the lateral and posterior walls of the cavity and along the front of the hypogastric artery. Before they meet both the ductus deferens and the ureter turn medially and, medial to the point of crossing, they both enter the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Behind the ureter is the hypogastric artery dividing into its anterior and posterior divisions. Running forwards on the lateral side of the ureter and the ductus deferens are the umbilical, the obturator, the middle and inferior vesical, and, not uncommonly, the middle haemorrhoidal branches of the anterior division of the hypogastric arterJ^ Springing from the umbilical artery are one or more superior vesical arteries, whilst below the umbilical artery and above the obturator artery is the obturator nerve, which pierces the parietal fascia at the back of the pelvis and runs forwards, above the corresponding artery and vein, to the obturator canal. Behind the ureter the lateral sacral branches and the gluteal continuation of the posterior division of the hypogastric artery will be seen piercing the pelvic fascia, and when the posterior division of the artery is displaced medially its ilio-lumbar branch will be found. The hypogastric vein lies along the posterior border of the artery, and those of its tributaries which correspond to the anterior branches of the artery pass, usually, to the medial side of the anterior division of the artery on their way to the main vein. There is no vein with the umbilical artery or its superior vesical branch. As a rule only one vein accompanies the obturator artery, but the inferior vesical and middle hsemorrhoidal veins are usually numerous, and, as they pass to their termination, they ensheath the lower part of thePELVIS 563 tributary of the common iliac vein. ' ’ “ posbr<:!,^ffhT,,f“;r;;^^^^ r,tai “rtiffpS Common iliac artery l^ypOR^i^itric artery (ant. division) .' i<Jdle hamorrhoidal aitery Haemorrhoidal veins JJIadder Superior vesical arteries Internal spermatic artery »p. li®morrhoidal artery Pelvic colon ■ eralsacral artery |»nch of sup. ha:- orrhoidal artery Rectum Left ureter Genito-femoral nerve Hypogastric artery External iliac artery Fascia on psoas Inferior vesical artery Ductus deferens Inferior epigastric artery Umbilical artery (obliterated) Obturator nerve Obturator artery Obturator vein Z mSzrr'bf 1 ^i-«or sisls of two main na» ° ! “do-pelv,c fascia. I, con- fhe pelvic wall and a rV i ^ P^*"t, which forms part of upper and lowei^ surfaces of '*’« of.be diaphragm isABDOMEN 5^4 it enters into intimate relationship with the pelvic viscera. The visceral part stretches across the cavity and helps to separate the perineum from the remainder of the pelvis. If the upper part of the parietal layer is examined it will be found that it is continuous at the pelvic brim with the fascia on the psoas magnus muscle, from which it descends to the level of a line drawn from the lower part of the back of the body of the pubis to the spine of the ischium. At this level the visceral layer springs from the parietal, its origin serving to separate the latter into lower and upper parts. If the upper part of the parietal portion is traced backwards it will be found to extend round the lateral side of the hypo- gastric vessels and across the front of the sacrum, behind the pelvic meso-colon and the rectum, to theopposite side. If it is traced forwards a short distance below the brim, it will be found to blend with the periosteum on the back of the superior ramus of the pubis, along an oblique line which de- scends from the junction of the middle with the lower third of the external iliac artery to the upper margin of the obturator foramen. Below the superior ramus of the pubis it forms a distinct thickened border which bridges across the upper part of the obturator foramen, and forms the lower boundary of the commence- ment of the obturator canal, by which the obturator artery and nerve leave the pelvis. To the medial side of the obturator foramen the parietal fascia blends with the periosteum on the back of the body of the pubis, along a line which descends towards the apex of the pubic arch and passes below the line of attachment of the visceral layer. The parietal layer is deficient, therefore, in the region of the upper part of the anterior wall of the pelvis, and as its anterior margin blends with the periosteum on the pubis any effusion lying external to the fascia will be prevented from extending forwards to the anterior part of the pelvis. Fig. 217.—Diagram of the Pelvic Wall and Pelvic Floor.PELVIS 565 The lower part of the parietal layer should next be examined. In the dissection of the perineum the student saw that the lower part of the parietal pelvic fascia formed the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, and that it blended, immediately below the origin of the levator ani, with the lower layer of the fascia of the pelvic diaphragm which covers the lower surfaces of the levator ani and the coccygeus (anal fascia). He saw also that, in the anterior part of the peri- Bladder - Endo-pelvic fascia Obturator internus Prostate Prostatic urethra* Levator ani - Upper fascia of v'pelvic diaphragm Endo-pelvic fascia Bulbo-cavernosus covering the bulb of the urethra Pubic arch Deep transvers perineal muscle Inferior fascia of uro-. genital diaphragm Crus penis” Ischio-cavernosus- Scrotal vessels a . . nerves Fascia of Colies Sheath of prostate Lower fascia of pelvic diaphragm Parietal pelvic fascia .. Obturator membrane - Superior fascia of uro- genital diaphragm — Pudendal vessels and nerve Crus penis covered by ischio-cavernosus Fig. 2i8.—Vertical section through the Bladder, Prostate, and Pubic Arch to show the arrangement of the Endo-pelvic Fascia : schematic. The endo-pelvic fascia is depicted in red. neum, the parietal fascia extended medially, as the superior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm, from the margin of the I pubic arch to the side of the urethra, where it not only I blended with the fascia coming from the opposite side, but also became continuous, round the anterior border of the 'i levator ani, with the fascia on the upper surface of that muscle, that is, with the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. ^ To display the details of the visceral layer of the fascia the final stages of the dissection of the perineum must now be completed.ABDOMEN 566 Dissection.—The dissector must carefully define the anterior borders of the levatores ani muscles, and then he must cut boldly through the centre of the perineum between the bulb and the anal orifice until he reaches the fascial interval between the posterior surface of the prostate and the front of the lower part of the rectum. When the interval is reached the knife may be discarded and the forefinger introduced into the space and carried from side to side. In this way it will be possible to demonstrate that the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as it descends on the levator ani, divides into a lower layer which passes behind the rectum, and a layer which passes between the rectum and the prostate. (Fig. 220, p. 567.) The right levator must now be divided, from before backwards, about midway between its origin from the parietal fascia and its insertion into the wall of the anal passage, care being taken to avoid injury to the fascia on its upper surface. The lower part of the muscle should ^e followed to Fascia iliaca Peritoneum Obturator inlernus • Levator ani clothed on medial side by rectal fascia and on outer side by lower fascia of pelvic diaphragm Alcock's canal, con-. taining pudendal vessels and nerve Anal canal Fig. 219.—Diagram of the Endo-pelvic Fascia. The pelvis is divided in a coronal plane and the pelvic fascia is represented in red. its insertion into the wall of the anal canal, and the mode of insertion between the internal and the external sphincters noted. The upper part should be turned laterally and the fingers of the left hand passed along its upper surface till its origin from the fascia is reached. When this has been done the dissector will find that the only structure which separates his fingers from the cavity of the pelvis is the upper layer of the fascia of the pelvic diaphragm {visceral layer of the pelvic fascia), which extends from the parietal fascia, at the level of the origin of the levator ani, and passes medially to the walls of the viscera, which it ensheathes. If the dissector will now place the fingers of one hand on the upper surface of the visceral fascia and those of the other hand on the lower surface, and then carry both hands medially, he will find that the one hand passes on to the upper surface of the bladder and the other behind the rectum. He will thus demonstrate that as the visceral fascia crosses the pelvis from side to side it separates into an upper or vesical layer and a lower or rectal layer. The third or recto-vesical layer, which covers the posterior surface of the prostate, and separates the gland from the rectum, has already567 PELVIS been demonstrated. The recto-vesical layer must now he incised, in the medial plane, on the posterior surface of the prostate and each half must be turned laterally. As the borders of the prostate are approached a plexus of veins will be exposed on each side, and immediately beyond the plexus the recto-vesical layer of the fascia will be found to blend with the vesical layer, which passes over the upper surface of the prostate. The ducti deferentes and the seminal vesicles will be exposed when the reflection of the recto-vesical layer is carried backwards beyond the prostate (Fig. 220). itxus maximus Sphincter ani extemus Crus penis Iniemal pudendal artery Bulb Urogenital diaphragm (inferior f^cia) regcnital diaphragm (superior fascia) Prostate Levator ani Seminal vesicle tactii-s deferens (Hresical fascia Rectal fascia Rectum Levator ani Ischio*cavernosus muscle Bulbo-cavernosus muscle Urethra Inf. fascia of urog. dia. Transversus perhiei Colies’ fascia Fig. 220.—Dissection to expose the Prostate from the Perineum. The True Ligaments of the Bladder.—There are live so- called true ligaments of the bladder, two laieral, the lateral pubo-vesical ligaments, two anterior, the medial pubo-vesical ligaments, and one superior. The lateral are the lateral parts of the vesical layer of pelvic fascia. The anterior are two thickenings of the same layer, one on each side of the medial plane in front of the bladder; they contain smooth muscle fibres which pass from the bladder to the back of the pubic bones at the margins of the symphysis. The superior, the lig. umbilicale medium, is formed by the urachus. During the various stages of this dissection the studentABDOMEN 568 should repeatedly convince himself, by introducing the index finger of his right hand into the rectum and that of his left hand into the pelvis, that he can quite easily define the outlines of the prostate and the seminal vesicles by a process of palpation, and when he has completed the dissection he should note that he has demonstrated that the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, which is single laterally, is cleft medially Parietal pelvic fascia Seminal Vesical layer of pelvic fascia Bladder vesicle Prostate» Symphysis Pubo-prostatic ligament Arcuate ligament Transverse liga- ment of pelvis Corpus caver- nosum penis ■Rectum j • Upper fascia % pelvic diaphra- 'Rectal fascia '•Recto-vesical fascu Upper fascia of uro-gen diaphragm Dilatation of urethra in bulb Bulb of corpus cavernosum urethra Lower fascia of uro-genital diaphragm (O.T. loxN’er layer of triangular lig.) Fig. 221.—Diagram of the Pelvic Fascia as seen in a sagittal section of the Pelvis. Pelvic fascia represented in red. into three lamellae by the interposition of the rectum between a middle and a lower layer, and the interposition of the bladder and the prostate between the middle and an upper layer. There are two compartments, therefore, in the sub- stance of the fascia, a lower or posterior, which contains the rectum, and an upper or anterior, in which lie the bladder, the prostate, the seminal vesicles, and the lower parts of the ductus deferentes. Dissection.—The suspensory ligament of the penis must be detached from the front of the symphysis. The left crus of the penis has already569 PELVIS been separated, and the right crus should now be cut away from the margin of the pubic arch and the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm, care being taken to avoid injuring the latter. As the penis is turned down the median and single dorsal vein will be seen to jmss backwards, between the arcuate ligament and the upper border of the transverse ligament of the pelvis (which is the thickened upper border of the fascire of Levator ani Dorsal vein of penis Dorsal artery of penis nerve of penis Artery to corpus cavernosum penis Inferior fascia of uro- genital diaphragm Crus penis Urethra Inferior fascia of uro-genital diaphragm Bulb Superior fascia of uro-genital diaphragm Fig. 222.—Dissection to show the Dorsal Vessels and Nerves of the Penis and their relations to the layers of the Uro-genital Diaphragm. The upper part of the deep transverse perineal muscle has been left between the layers of the ligament. The lower part has been removed to expose the posterior layer. The lines of the saw-cuts to be made at the next stage of dissection are indicated on the bones by the dotted lines. the uro-genital diaphragm), into the pelvis, where it will be followed at a later stage. The dorsal artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis pierce the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm near the upper part of the lateral border of the pubic arch, and the artery to the corpus cavernosum frequently passes through the diaphragm immediately to the lateral side of the nerve (Fig. 222). The proximal parts of these structures have already been seen in the dissection of the perineum. The bulb of the corpus cavernosum urethrte should now be carefully detached from the upper part of the inferiorABDOMEN 57° fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm and turned downwards until the urethra is brought into view. It pierces the upper part of the fascia in the medial plane and passes at once into the bulb. The muscles and fascia must now be detached from the anterior surfaces and upper borders of the bodies of the pubic bones, and from the upper parts of the pubic rami. Then the bones must be cut through, with the saw, on each side, along a line running from below the'attachment of the arcuate ligament to the lateral side of the pubic tubercle (see Fig. 222). By these saw-cuts a considerable part of the anterior wall of the pelvis is isolated, and it can be removed when the vesical layer of the endo-pelvic fascia has been detached from its posterior surface. Flaving been removed, it must be kept for the examination of the inter-pubic joint. Whilst the bone is being removed care must be taken to avoid injuring the dorsal vein of the penis. After the bone is removed the dissector will see the anterior border of the vesical layer of the endo-pel-vic fascia which has been detached from the back of the pubis. In this fascia he will readily recognise the thickened bands of the pubo-prostatic ligaments. The vesical layer must now be divided in the medial plane and turned laterally to each side. Whilst this is being done it will be noticed that above the prostate the vesical layer is gradually lost on the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder (Fig. 223). When the fascia has been turned laterally to its junction with the recto-vesical layer, already displayed from below, the dorsal vein of the penis must be followed backwards. It divides, immediately after entering the pelvis, beneath the vesical layer of fascia, into right and left branches which join the corresponding parts of the pudendal (O.T. prostatic) venous plexus. The dissector should notice that, by the removal of the bone in the region of the symphysis, he has exposed not only the structures already noted, but also the whole of the anterior border of the bladder and parts of its infero-lateral surfaces. If he now replaces the pelvic peritoneum, he will find that it has no relation to the border and surfaces mentioned ; they lie entirely below the level of the peritoneum. They form the posterior boundary of the lower part of the cave of Retzius, and lie in relation with the anterior and antero-lateral parts of the pelvic wall, from which they are separated by the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which was removed at an earlier stage of the dissection. The dissector has now seen three surfaces of the bladder, the superior surface covered by peri- toneum, and the two infero-lateral surfaces. The bladder possesses also a fourth surface, the fundus or base, which lies in relation with the ductus deferentes, the seminal vesicles, and to a less extent with the lower part of the anterior wall of the rectum. This surface and the interior of the bladder should now be investigated. ■ Dissectio7i.—Enter the knife through tlie anterior border of tire bladder, a little below its upper extremity, and carry it backwards first on one side and then on the other, just below the upper border of each infero-lateralPELVIS 571 surface. When ihe incisions have been made, push the upper surface of the bladder backwards and- press the infero-lateral surfaces downwards and forwards. An excellent view of the interior will thus be obtained, and, when its surface has been sponged the mucous lining and the orifices may be examined, and the relations of the base may be investigated. If it is necessary the anterior border may be divided vertically from the apex of the bladder to the upper border of the prostate Bladder Prositate Pudendal plexus Dorsal vein of penis Levator ani Membranous urethra Bulb Crus penis Vesical fascia Recto-vesical fascia Levator ani Uro-genital dia- phragm (superior fascia) Uro-genital dia- phragm (inferior fascia) Anal canal Glutmus maxiinus Fig. 223.—Dissection of the Bladder, the F.ndo-Pelvic Fascia, and the Prostate from the front. The mucous membrane is rugose, when the bladder is empty, over the whole of the inner surface, except a small triangular area on the basal wall. The rugosity is due to the loose manner in which the membrane is bound to the muscular coat by the layer of submucous tissue. When theABDOMEN 572 bladder is distended the folds are effaced, and the mucous lining becomes smooth throughout. Orifices and Trigone of the Bladder.—There are three orifices in the bladder wall—two orifices of inlet, the orifices of the ureters; and one orifice of outlet, the orifice of the Ureter Recto-vesical fascia Pudendal plexus Levator ani Prostate Uro-genital diaphragm (superior layer) Uro-genital diaphragm (interior layer) Wall of bladder Trigone Uvula Urethral crest Utriculus prostaticus Membranous urethra Dilatation of urethra in the bulb Ducts of bulbo-. urethral glands ^ Urachus Fig. 224.—Dissection of Bladder and Urethra from the front. urethra. They are situated at the three angles of the tri- angular smooth area of the mucous membrane which is known as the Trigonum Vesic^B {Trigone of the Bladder'). In this area the mucous membrane is always smooth, whether the bladder is distended or empty, on account of the close connection which exists between the mucous and muscular coats. At the anterior angle of the area is the internalPELVIS 5 73 urethral orifice, semilunar or V-shaped in outline, with a slightly elevated posterior lip which is known as the uvula of the bladder (Figs. 224 and 225). The elevation indicates the position of the middle lobe of the prostate gland below. When the bladder is empty and contracted a number of radial ridges of mucous membrane diverge from the margins of the orifice. The ureteral orifices lie at the posterior angles of the trigone. They are small semilunar slits, and are frequently connected together by a transverse bar of mucous mem- brane {torus vesicalis) which covers a bar of muscle. This ridge is sometimes spoken of as Mercier’s bar. Not uncommonly a ridge of mucous membrane will be found connecting each ureter with the urethra, and the muscular bands which underlie the latter ridges are known as Bell’s muscles. Probes should be passed along the ureters to demonstrate the obliquity with which the ducts pass through the bladder wall. It will be found that each ureter runs through the substance of the bladder wall for about three- quarters of an inch (20 mm.). This arrangement serves the purpose of a valve which allows urine to pass easily into the bladder but tends to prevent its backward flow. When the bladder is distended the openings of the ureters are about an inch and a half apart (37 mm.), and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra, but when the viscus is empty and contracted the distance between the orifices is reduced to about one inch (25 mm.) in each case. The dissector should now investigate the relations of the fundus of the bladder by palpation. Keeping one index finger in the bladder and passing the other into the rectum, he will find that he can distinguish the prostate below and around the internal urethral orifice. Above the level of the prostate he can feel the thick walls of the deferent ducts, one on each side of the medial plane, and more laterally he will recognise the convoluted coils of the seminal vesicles. If he passes his finger upwards, along the median plane, he will find that the deferent ducts diverge, and that between them the rectum and bladder lie in contact. The area in which this contact occurs corresponds with the posterior part of the trigone, and varies considerably in size. When the bladder is empty the area is small or absent, but it increases considerably when the bladder is distended, and at one timeABDOMEN 574 it was a common surgical procedure to puncture the bladder through this region for the purpose of relieving over-distension. Dissection.—When the dissector has satisfied himself regarding the rela- tions of the base of the bladder and the possibility of easily distinguishing them with the finger through the rectal wall, he should introduce a blunt- Symphysis pubis Opening of ureter Position of prostate Urethral opening Trigone Bladder Ureter piercing wall of bladder Obturator canal Seminal vesicle Ductus X deferens Obturator vesse-j and nerve Ureter | Inferior vesic^ middle hsmo i rhoidal arteri< Pelvic I Obturator internus Parietal pelvic fascia. Piriformis Inferior gluteal and internal pudendal arteries Pelvic plexus WM j. . I Sacral plexus'^'^^ Parietal pelv3 fascia j Superior glutjes •arter>' piercing | parietal pelvic fa Inferior glui^eal an ternal pudendal art i Lumbo-sacral cord aj t sacral nerve Sacro-iliac joint Sacro-iliac joint Branches of superior hsemorrhoidal artery Branches of superior haemorrhoidal artery Terminal portion of pelvic colon Fig. 225.—Oblique Section from above downwards and forwards through the Pelvis. The peritoneum has been removed so as to expose the viscera and the parietal pelvic fascia clothing the pelvic wall. pointed knife, or a pair of scissors, through the internal urethral orifice into the urethra, and lay the canal open by dividing its dorsal wall from the bladder to the end of the penis. Urethra Virilis (Male Urethra).—The urethra is the canal through which the urine, the semen, and the secretions of the vesiculae seminales, the prostate, and bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s), are emitted from the body. It commences 1575 PELVIS at the neck of the bladder and ends on the glans penis. Its average length is about eight or nine inches (220-225 mrn-)- It is customary to divide the canal into three parts, from the different characters of the structures which it traverses. The first part, pars prosiatica urethrcz^ is contained within the substance of the prostate gland; the second part, pars membranacea urethra^ extends from the prostate to the bulb of the corpus cavernosum urethree, and is surrounded, between the layers of the uro-genital diaphragm, by the fibres of the sphincter muscle of the membranous urethra; the third part, pars cavernosa urethrce^ traverses the entire length of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. Pars Prostatica Urethrae (Prostatic Portion of the Urethra).—This part of the urethra is about one inch and a quarter in length (31 mm.). It is fusiform, being wider in the middle than at either its commencement or its termina- tion. It traverses the prostate in front of its so-called middle lobe, and takes a very nearly vertical course through its substance. It is the widest, and at the same time the most dilatable part of the canal. In connection with the posterior wall or floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra there are certain important features to be noted. The mucous membrane along the median plane is raised into a prominent ridge called the crista urethrce or urethral crest. This commences a short distance below the orifice of the urethra in the bladder, and extends downwards for about three-quarters of an inch. At first it increases gradually in height, until it forms a prominent eminence, the colliculus seminalis or seminal hillock, then its height suddenly diminishes, and, finally, the ridge fades away into the membranous part of the canal. On each side of the urethral crest the floor of the urethra is hollowed out into a longi- tudinal depression, termed the prostatic sinus, into which the numerous prostatic ducts open. These may be rendered evident by squeezing the prostate, when fluid will be found to exude into the sinuses through the ducts. A close inspection of the floor of the urethra, above the crista, will reveal the apertures of the ducts of the so-called middle lobe of the prostate. Immediately below the seminal hillock the mucous membrane dips backwards and upwards, forming a small cul- de-sac behind the middle lobe of the prostate. This is the576 ABDOMEN utriciilus prostaticus. Its orifice is narrow, but the recess widens out towards its blind upper end, and its length, which may be gauged with a probe, varies from a quarter to half an inch (6-12 mm.). It is of interest both practically and developmentally,—practically, because it is sometimes large enough to entangle the point of a small catheter or bougie, and developmentally, because it represents, in the male, the vagina and uterus of the female. On the margins of the prostatic utricle the dissector will find the slit-like orifices of the ejaculatory ducts. The ducts themselves run downwards, along the lateral walls of the utricle, between the middle and lateral lobes of the prostate. Bristles should be passed through the apertures into the ducts. Owing to the projection of the urethral crest from the middle of the floor of the canal a transverse section of the prostatic portion of the urethra presents a crescentic figure— the convexity of the crescent being directed forwards and the concavity backwards.577 PELVIS The prostate is very liable to become enlarged as old age approaches. When this happens the most important result is the effect e.xerted on the urethra. If the enlargement is uniform the canal is merely lengthened, but, if excessive growth is localised the enlarged part may impinge upon the urethra and interfere with micturition. When the middle lobe enlarges it projects upwards and forwards, over the orifice of the urethra, and forms a kind of ball valve, which may pre- vent the exit of urine through the internal urethral orifice. It is only in pathological conditions that the so-called middle lobe becomes a distinct and more or less in- dependent part of the organ. During health it is merely marked off from the rest of the prostate by the utricle and by the passage of the ejaculatory ducts through the substance of the gland. Pars Membranacea Urethrae (Membranous Portion of the Urethra).—This is the narrowest and the shortest division of the urethra. It extends from the prostate to the bulb of the penis, curving gently downwards and forwards, behind the lower border of the symphysis pubis, from which it is distant about one inch (25 mm.). Its length is barely three-quarters of an inch, and the concavity of its curve is directed forwards and upwards. Throughout its entire length it is enveloped by the fibres of the sphincter urethrm membranaceae (O.T. compressor urethrae) muscle. Towards its termination the bulbo-urethral glands are placed behind it—one on each side. The membranous part of the urethra has important rela- tions to the uro-genital diaphragm and to the pelvic fascia. As it emerges from the prostate, it pierces the parietal pelvic fascia {i.e. the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm), and the margins of the aperture through which it passes are carried backwards to become continuous with the sheath of the prostate. At its termination it pierces the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm about an inch below the symphysis. It lies therefore in the interval between these two fasciae. The mucous membrane of the membranous part of the urethra is directly surrounded by a thin coat of erectile tissue, and this is embraced by a muscular tunic compo.sed of involuntary fibres arranged circularly. Pars Cavernosa Urethrae (Spongy Portion of the Urethra).— VOL. I—37578 ABDOMEN This is the longest division of the urethra. It is embedded in the substance of the corpus cavernosum urethrae, and its calibre varies considerably at different points. In each expansion of the corpus cavernosum urethrae, viz. the bulb posteriorly and the glans anteriorly, there is a corresponding dilatation of the urethra; between the dilatations the canal is of uniform diameter, and slightly wider than the membranous portion. The dilatation of the urethra in the glans is termed the fossa 7iavicularis. At its orifice, the external urethral 07'ifice [meatus urinarius), the canal is much contracted, and is even narrower than any part of the membranous portion. The orifice is a vertical slit, and its lower end is connected with the prepuce by a fold of skin, termed the ft-enulum preputii. In the bulb and in the glans penis the erectile tissue of the corpus cavernosum urethrte is disposed very unequally around the urethra. In the former it is chiefly massed below or behind the tube, whilst in the glans it is chiefly placed in front and on each side, a very thin layer lying posteriorly. The ducts of the bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s) pierce the floor and open into the cavernous part of the urethra about an inch in front of the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm. The orifices are extremely minute and difficult to And, but by making a small hole in the wall of the duct, as it emerges from the gland, and passing a fine bristle along it, the dissector may be able to find the opening in the urethral floor. After piercing the uro-genital diaphragm the ducts proceed forwards, first in the erectile tissue, and then in the submucous layer, towards their terminations. The walls of the urethra are always in apposition except when urine is flowing through it, and a transverse section through the spongy portion, except at its anterior part, has the appearance of a transverse slit. In the fossa navicularis, how- ever, the slit becomes vertical, showing that there the side walls are in contact. Mucous Membrane of the Urethra.—The mucous lining of the urethra is continuous posteriorly with that of the bladder, and anteriorly with the integument of the glans penis. It is continuous also with the mucous membrane of the various ducts which open into the urethra. Scattered over its whole surface are the mouths of numefous minute recesses, laucnce urethrales. As a general rule, their openings are directed forwards, and they are largest on the dorsal wall,579 PELVIS where some are large enough to catch the point of a small catheter or bougie. Direction of the Urethral Canal.—The prostatic portion is directed downwards and very slightly forwards. The membranous part describes a gentle curve behind the sym- physis. The concavity of the curve looks forwards and upwards. The cavernous part first ascends, then curves down- wards. The urethra, therefore, in the flaccid condition of the penis, takes a course in which there are two curves, like the letter 03 placed on its side. When the penis is raised towards the front of the abdomen the curve in the cavernous Urethra Corpus cavernosuni urethrae Dorsal vein of penis Fibrous capsule of corpus cavernosum penis Dorsal artery Unreal nerve Fibrous capsule of corpus cavernosum penis Corpus cavernosum pen* Septum penis Arter>’ to corpus cavernosum penis Erectile tissue of corpus cavernosum penis Fig. 227.—Transverse section through the anterior part of the body of the Penis. part of the canal is obliterated, and there is then only one curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards. Dissection.—The cor[>orus cavernosum penis was separated into two parts by the incision which opened the urethra. Transverse incisions should now be made through each part. Structure of the Penis.—The corpus cavernosum penis consists of a mass of erectile tissue surrounded by a strong fibro-elastic sheath, the tunica albuginea. It is more or less completely separated into two lateral halves by a median septum connected with the internal surface of the sheath. This septum receives the name of septum penis, and it is frequently termed the septum pectiniforme because, in front, it is very imperfect, being broken up by vertical slits into a580 ABDOMEN number of processes like the teeth of a comb. Fibrous lamellae and bands proceed from the deep surface of the sheath and join together to form a spongy framework. The interstices of this framework communicate freely with each other and are filled with venous blood. By squeezing the corpus cavernosum under the tap and washing out the blood some idea of the trabeculae may be obtained. The corpus cavernosum urethrae has a similar structure. The enclosing sheath, however, is very delicate, and the trabeculae are much finer. Fig. 228.—Medial section through terminal part of the Penis : Prepuce extremely short. Dissection.—Divide the peritoneum along the junction of the superior surface with the fundus of the bladder, and extend the incision to the lateral wall of the pelvis to separate each lateral false ligament from the peritoneum posterior to it. Next divide the peritoneum in the medial plane on the superior surface of the bladder and then divide the superior and posterior walls of the viscus in the median plane. After the division is completed dissect the fundus of the bladder from the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles, taking care not to injure the ureters as they enter the bladder wall. When the separation is completed note the relations of the bladder and ureters to the more posterior structures. In the median plane there may be a slight interval be- tween the deferent ducts in which the rectum is separated from the bladder wall merely by the recto-vesical fascia ; this interval, if it is present, corresponds to the middle and back part of the trigone of the bladder. On each side of it the deferent duct and the seminal vesicle separate the bladder Fibrous capsule of the Prepuce Corpus cavernosum - penis Offsets from capsule l Corpus cavernosum urethrae581 PELVIS from the anterior surface of the rectum, and still more later- ally the apical part of the seminal vesicle lies on the levator ani at the side of the rectum, while the lower part of the ureter intervenes between the vesicle and the bladder wall. Dissection.—The anterior part of the prostate was divided when the urethra was opened. The dissector should now divide the posterior part in the median plane. The rectum must then be divided in the median plane, and afterwards the sacrum and coccyx must be divided vertically by a saw- cut, to the left of the middle sacral artery. The separation of the two halves of the pelvis from each other must be completed by the division of any remaining soft parts with the knife. All the subsequent stages of dissection and the examination of the relations of the viscera can be quite con- veniently carried out on each side separately. Relations of Blood Vessels and Nerves to the Pelvic Fascia.—The dissector should again note that the blood vessels of the pelvis are placed on the peritoneal surface of the pelvic fascia. It follows, therefore, that all the branches pierce the fascia as they pass to the viscera or as they pass out of the pelvis, and they carry with them prolongations of the fascia which blend with their sheaths. There is one exception to this rule, viz. the obturator artery, which passes over the upper border of the parietal pelvic fascia into the obturator canal. The nerves lie outside the fascia, and, with the exception of the obhirator nerve., those which are leav- ing the pelvis do not require to pierce it, but the branches which are to supply the viscera pass through its substance to gain their terminations, and the obturator nerve pierces it posteriorly to gain the interior of the pelvis. This differ- ence in the nerves and blood vessels can be well studied by looking at the fascia as it passes over the great sciatic foramen. The relation of the pelvic blood vessels to the lining fascia is a matter of some practical importance. The margins of the apertures in the fascia through which the vessels pass are usually strengthened by some encircling fibres ; still, a portion of gut may make its way through one or other of the openings in the fascia and form a hernia. Sciatic hernia consists of a protrusion of the gut through the great sciatic notch. The hernia may be situated either above or below the piriformis. In the former case it escapes through the aperture in the fascia made by the superior glutteal artery, and in the latter through the aperture for the inferior glutseal or the internal pudendal artery. 1—37 a582 ABDOMEN A hernia may occur through the obturator foramen also (obturator hernia). In this case the gut follows the obturator artery over the upper border of the fascia and through the obturator canal. Intestinum Eectum (Eectum).—The rectum is the portion of the large intestine which extends from the termination of Processus Superior hsemorrhoidal vessels External iliac vessels • ower end of pelvic colon Internal vessel Genito-femoral Umbilical artery Obturator nerve-. Umbilical artery Obturator vesseir Ureter PeUnc plexus of nerves Levator ani Obt. and nerve Ureter Pelvic plexus of and hsemorrhoidal veins Levator ani canal External sphincter Fig. 229.—Dissection of the Rectum from the front in a specimen hardened by formalin injection. The front wall of the pelvis has been removed, and the bladder, prostate, and seminal vesicles taken away. the pelvic colon, opposite the middle of the third piece of the sacrum, to the point about one and a half inches in front of the tip of the coccyx, that is, to the apex of the prostate in the male, and to the apex of the perineal body in the female. At this point it bends abruptly backwards, pierces the rectal layer of pelvic fascia, and becomes the anal canal. The rectum is about five inches long. For the greater part of its length it is adapted to the anterior surface of the583 PELVIS sacrum and coccyx. It is, therefore, curved with the con- cavity forwards. Beyond the coccyx the lower inch and a half of the rectum is supported by pelvic floor, formed by Posterior superior spine of ilium Pararectal fossa of peri- toneum Superior hsemor- rhoidal artery 3rd sacral vertebra 4th sacral vertebra (cut) Piriformis (cut) Superior hxmor- rhoidal artery Lig. sacro- tuberosum Ischio-rectal / j-, fossa J Anal canal- Fig. 230.—Dissection of the Rectum from behind. The sacrum below the 4th sacral vertebra and also the coccyx have been removed. Portions of the levatores ani, coccygei, and external sphincter have also been taken away. (Birmingham.) the levatores ani muscles, and by the ano-coccygeal body. The ano-coccygeal body consists of a dense mass of fibrous tissue which fills the interval between the coccyx and the anus. It receives the insertion of some of the fibres of the levatoresABDOMEN 584 ani muscles. Below the pelvic floor in this region lies the posterior part of the sphincter ani externus muscle. Peritoneal Relations of the Rectum.—These relations are of practical importance. In its upper third the gut is clothed by the peritoneum both in front and on the sides; then the peritoneum passes away from the sides, so that in its middle third the gut is covered merely in front; finally, about an inch above the base of the prostate, at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation, the membrane quits the rectum altogether, and is reflected on to the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles as they lie at the fundus of the bladder. The lower third of the rectum is thus altogether devoid of peritoneum. It is separated from the fundus of the bladder and the posterior surface of the prostate by the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia, and embedded in the fascia, behind the bladder, are the lower parts of the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles. On each side of the upper part of the undistended rectum is a pararectal fossa, and each lateral wall of the lower part of the gut is supported by the corresponding levator ani muscle (Figs. 229 and 230). Flexures of the Rectum.—The rectum does not take a straight course along the back wall and floor of the pelvis. On the contrary, it presents three abrupt lateral bends or flexures, of which, as a rule, two are convex to the right and one to the left. The sharply marked infoldings of the wall of the gut opposite to the flexures are the cause of the so- called plicae transversales recti (O.T. rectal valves) in the interior of the gut. The flexures are best marked when the gut is distended, but even when it is empty they are usually quite obvious. Lying between the bladder and prostate in front and the sacrum and coccyx behind, the rectum, when empty, has its anterior wall pressed against its posterior wall, and in this condition its lumen appears, in transverse section, as a transverse slit (Fig. 231). Behind the apex of the prostate, where the gut bends to become the anal canal, its anterior wall, in the distended condition, sometimes shows a slight bulging cul-de-sac^ the ampulla recti, which gains a lower level than the prostate. Anal Canal.—This is the narrow slit-like passage about an inch and a half in length (49 mm.) which leads from the rectum585 PELVIS to the anal orifice. The canal commences at the apex of t e prostate and proceeds downwards and backwards. It is totally destitute of peritoneum, but it is clothed and supported the rectal layer of the pelvic fascia ''hich It pierces. In addition, it is closely surrounded by Fig. 23i._Coronal section through the whole length of the Anal Canal (Symington.) Bladder. V.D. Ductus deferens. S.V. Seminal vesicle. R. Terminal portion of the rectum (note the apposition of its an- terior and posterior walls). strong muscles, which keep close guard over it anrl oiir^ .he ci,c„.a. lower ^^^erna/ sphincter which surrounds the wlTos^medhrmn ‘he W... aZ' •e medial margins grasp the canal laterally, near itsABDOMEN 586 upper end, and pinch in its walls. The membranous part of the urethra and the bulb of the urethra are in front of the canal, but, on account of the backward inclination of the gut, they are separated from it by a mass of fibro- elastic tissue corresponding to the perineal body of the female. Behind the anal canal is the ano-coccygeal body (Symington). Vesica Urinaria (Bladder).—This is a hollow viscus, with strong muscular walls, which acts as a temporary reservoir for the urine before it is emitted from the body by the process of micturition. Its form, and, in a great measure, its position and relations, are influenced by the amount of fluid it contains and by the age of the subject. Fig. 232.—-Bladder hardened hi situ viewed from the right side. It contained a very small quantity of fluid. (A. F. Di.xon.) The different forms which the bladder assumes, under con- stantly changing conditions, render its description a matter of serious difficulty. As a rule it is found in the dissecting room with contracted walls and empty. For this reason, and also because our information regarding the empty bladder is more exact, the dissector should study, in the first place, the form it presents when in this condition, and afterwards consider the changes it undergoes as it becomes filled with urine. The following description is based upon the account given by Professor Dixon. The empty bladder lies completely within the cavity of the pelvis. It has the form of a triangular pyramid possessing nn apex, a base or fundus and three surfaces, viz.—a superior •and two infero-lateral surfaces. The fundus looks backwards towards the rectum, from which \587 PELVIS VE RTCX it is separated by the recto-vesical fascia, the deferent ducts and seminal vesicles which are enclosed in the fascia, and the peritoneum of the anterior wall of the recto-vesical excavation. The apex is placed in relation with the upper part of the symphysis pubis. It is continuous with a strong fibrous cord, the ligamentum umbilicale medium {urachus), which proceeds upwards, on the posterior aspect of the anterior abdominal wall, to the umbilicus. The urachus is the re- mains of the intra-abdominal part of the allantoic diverticulum from the hind-gut of the embryo. The superior surface looks upwards and backwards, and is completely covered by peri- toneum. It supports some coils of small intestine and, as a rule, a coil of the pelvic colon. It is slightly convex; it is tri- angular in outline, and is bounded by three borders, viz.— two lateral, which diverge from the apex, and a pos- terior, which separates it from the base. The lateral and pos- terior borders meet at the lateral angles, and at these angles the ureters enter the bladder wall. Each lateral border is in relation with the side wall of the pelvis, along a line considerably ureter ureter Fig. 233.—Diagram of the Under Surface of the Empty Bladder. (After A. F. Dixon.) below the level of the deferent ducts and the umbilical artery. The infero-lateral surfaces are separated from each other by a rounded anterior border. Each infero-lateral surface forms part of the posterior wall of the cave of Retzius, and is separated by extra-peritoneal fat from the back of the ! body of the pubic bone and the fascia covering the pelvic surfaces of the obturator internus and the levator ani muscles. The anterior border, which separates the infero-lateral sur- faces, lies behind the symphysis and in front of the prostate, b It extends downwards and backwards to the internal urethral588 ABDOMEN orifice which separates it from the lower end of the fundus. This border is separated from the back of the symphysis and the pubo-prostatic ligaments by the retro-pubic pad of fat, which appears in medial sections of the pelvis as a small wedge- shaped mass of soft, fatty areolar tissue (Fig. 235). This pad is continuous with other parts of the extra-peritoneal fat, and adapts itself to the changing conditions of the bladder. The internal urethral orifice, by which the urine leaves the bladder, is placed at the junction of the fundus with the anterior border, and occupies the most dependent position. It is surrounded by the base of the prostate which presents Ductus deferens Seminal vesicle Prostate Ureter nfero-lateral surface Membranous urethra Fig. 234.— Bladder hardened in situ viewed from the right side. It contained a slightly larger amount of fluid than the specimen depicted in Fig. 232. (A. F. Dixon.) a structural continuity with the bladder wall. The term neck is frequently applied to this region of the bladder. Changes in the form of the Bladder as it becomes filled with Urine.—The neck of the bladder is firmly fixed in position by its attachment to the prostate and by its connec- tion with the diaphragmatic layer of the pelvic fascia, and the prostate is securely held in place by its strong sheath of pelvic fascia; therefore, as the bladder becomes filled, the internal urethral orifice suffers very little change of position. It is only in cases of excessive distension that any marked change in its level becomes manifest, and under such circumstances the internal urethral orifice sinks, to a certain extent, in the pelvic cavity.589 PELVIS As the bladder fills its superior wall is raised from the fundus and infero-lateral walls. All its surfaces are increased in area, and the borders, which in the empty bladder inter- vene between them, become rounded off and finally obliterated. The organ thus becomes oval in form, and the walls, which are thick and firm in the contracted state, become com- Rectu-= abdominis Retro-pubic pad of fat Corpus cavernosu penis l^ulbo-cavernosiis Peritoneum Ductus deferens Prostate Sphincter ni externus ani imernus Hulb of urethra Sphincter uni externus Fig. 235. — Medial section through the Pelvis of an Adult Male. The bladder is nearly empty, and the urethra is divided along its whole length. R. Rectum. S. Symphysis. B. Bladder. paratively thin. The apex appears above the symphysis pubis, and, as distension goes on, the organ rises higher and higher into the hypogastric region until a considerable extent of its wall becomes applied to the abdominal wall above the pubis. The infero-lateral surfaces of the distending bladder encroach on the paravesical fosste, and finally obliterate them, thus coming into contact with a greater extent of the lateral walls of the pelvis. When the bladder is excessively distended it assumes a LiABDOMEN 59° spherical form or, in some cases, an ovoid form with the large end above (Fig. 236). In the latter case its long axis is no longer horizontal, but oblique, being directed from above downwards and backwards. When the urine is ejected from the bladder, the superior wall descends till it becomes approximated to the infero- lateral walls and the fundus. The viscus, therefore, becomes flattened from above downwards, and comes to lie again entirely within the cavity of the small pelvis. When such a bladder is examined in medial section, in a subject from whom the urine was expelled shortly before death, the w'alls of the bladder are thick and firm, and the lumen of the viscus may be reduced to a mere slit. The part of the lumen which lies behind the internal urethral orifice is called the posterior limb, and the part in front of the orifice, bounded by the approximated superior and infero-lateral walls, is called the anterior limb of the cavity. • The anterior limb is long and nearly horizontal. The posterior limb is short and sometimes barely recognisable; further, it is oblique or vertical, and joins the anterior limb at an angle. Viewed in medial section, therefore, the lumen of the perfectly empty bladder usually forms two limbs of a Y, the stem being the urethra. In other cases the empty bladder is firm and rounded, and when divided in the medial plane its cavity is seen to present only the one limb or slit which is directly continuous with the urethra. Eelation of the Peritoneum to the Bladder.—In the empty bladder only the superior surface is directly covered by peritoneum. The membrane is ..separated from the upper part of the fundus by the seminal vesicles and the deferent ducts. The infero-lateral surfaces are entirely devoid of peritoneum. When the bladder fills it rises into the hypogastric region, and it is important to note that the peritoneal reflection from the apex is raised along with the organ, and, as a result, a considerable area of the bladder wall, below the ligamentum umbilicale medium [urac/ius) becomes applied directly to the anterior abdominal wall without the intervention of peri- toneum. Consequently, in those cases of retention of urine in which a catheter cannot be passed into the bladder through the urethra, relief can be given, without fear of591 PELVIS injuring the peritoneum, by puncturing the bladder, with a trocar and cannula, immediately above the symphysis in the middle line. Laterally, also, the line of peritoneal reflection is raised until it may appear to leave the lateral surface of the bladder along the line of the ductus deferens, as this passes backwards Urethra Peritoneal reflection Peritoneal reflection Ductus deferens Prostate Fig. 236.—Medial section through a Male Pelvis, in which the Bladder was greatly distended. H. Bladder. S. Symphysis pubis. K. Rectum. Sa. Sacrum. along the side wall of the pelvis, or even as high as the level of the umbilical artery. Posteriorly the sacro-genital folds are opened out and obliterated to provide a covering for the expanding basal portion of the bladder, but the level of the reflection of the peritoneum which forms the bottom of the recto-vesical excava- tion undergoes no change. When the rectum is distended the recto-vesical reflection assumes a higher level, but this is not due to any change in the position of the peritoneum in592 ABDOMEN relation to the bladder, but to the entire bladder, with the reflection, being pushed upwards and forwards by the ex- panding gut. In the new-born infant the bladder differs both in form and position from the bladder of the adult. It is more or less pyriform, the narrow end passing into the urethra, and there is little or no appearance of a basal portion (Fig. 237). Further, it is placed very much higher. The internal urethral orifice is at the level of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the anterior surface of the organ is uncovered by peritoneum, and lies in direct contact with the abdominal wall (Symington). As growth goes on the urethral orifice sinks rapidly from the period of birth up to the fourth year, and Fig. 237.—Medial section through Pelvis of a newly-born full-time Male Infant. R. Rectum. Sa. Sacrum. S. Symphj'sis pubis. more slowly from that period up to the beginning of the ninth year. Then it remains stationary till puberty, after which it sinks slowly till it attains its normal adult position (Disse). It should also be noted that the recto-vesical re- flection of peritoneum, in the infant at birth, is at the level of the base of the prostate. [ Ureters.—Having crossed the lower end of the common | iliac artery, or the upper end of the external iliac artery, at the j brim of the small pelvis, the ureter descends, along the front of ' the hypogastric artery and its anterior division, till the level of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia is reached, i.e. the level of the spine of the ischium. It then turns medially and forwards on the upper surface of the visceral fascia. In this part of its course it passes deep to the deferent duct, pierces the vesical layer of the visceral fascia, and enters the bladderPELVIS 59,^ wall at the lateral angle, immediately in front of the upper end of the seminal vesicle. Its point of entry into the bladder wall is about one and a half inches (49 mm-.) above the ba.se of the prostate, and about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side. It is covered on its anterior and medial surfaces by the peritoneum which it raises into a ridge. To its lateral side, from above downwards, lie the umbilical artery, the obturator nerve, the obturator artery, the inferior vesical artery, and, occasionally, the middle htemorrhoidal artery, but this vessel may pass behind the ureter. The obturator vein, which lies at a lower level than the I-'lG. 238. — Basal aspect of Bladder, Seminal Vesicles, and Prostate hardened By formalin injection. I artery, may pass either laterally or medially to the ureter on its ’ way to the hypogastric vein. As a rule there is no vein with I the superior vesical artery. The veins which correspond 1 to the inferior vesical and middle htemorrhoidal arteries I are irregular in number and large in size; they emerge from jl venous plexuses on the walls of the respective viscera, and 1 enclose the lower part of the ureter in tortuous coils as they I pass to the hypogastric vein. [ Prostata (Prostate).—The prostate is a solid body, partly ' glandular and partly muscular, which embraces the neck of ' the bladder and surrounds the finst part of the urethra. I It is conical in shape, with its base directed upwards and I VOL. I—38 I yeABDOMEN 594 its apex downwards. In size it is variable, but its average dimensions are: letigth, about one and a quarter inches (31 mm.) from base to apex; breadth, one and a half inches (37 mm.) from side to side at its broadest part. Position.—The prostate rests upon the anterior aspect of the lowest part of the rectum. It is about an inch and a half distant from the anus, whilst its anterior border lies Symphysis pubis Fig. 239.—Dissection of the two Levatores Ani. The pelvis is tilted forwards and the pubic arch has been removed. Both la)’ers of the triangular ligament, the parts in relation to them, and the pubic origins of the levatores ani, have also been taken away. The portion of bone removed is indicated by the dotted lines. three-quarters of an inch behind the lower part of the symphysis pubis. As already mentioned, the prostate is en- closed in a strong fibrous sheath derived from the pelvic fascia. This sheath is firmly fixed not only by the pubo- prostatic ligaments, which form a part of it, but also, at the apex of the gland, by the continuity which is established between the sheath and the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm. These connections of the sheath prevent the prostate altering its position in response to the continual595 PELVIS I—38 a changes which occur in the state of the distension of the bladder. It is a matter of importance to notice that the prostate lies loosely in its sheath. Only in the middle line, in front, and around the urethra as it emerges from the gland, is there any degree of adhesion between the prostate and its fascial envelope (Fig. 224). Within the sheath, and attached more closely to its inner surface than to the prostate, is a plexus of thin - walled veins, the pudendal plexus (Fig. 223). The plexus is spread over the anterior border and the lateral surfaces of the prostate, and is denser in the latter situation than in the former. It receives the dorsal vein of the penis, it com- municates with the internal pudendal vein, and it becomes continuous above, at the base of the prostate, with the prostatico-vesical venous plexus from which the blood is drained by the inferior vesical veins. Immediately surrounding the prostate, and quite inde- pendent of the sheath, is the fibrous capsule of the prostate. This capsule varies in thickness, in some cases being ex- tremely thin and in others forming a distinct cortex. In association with operations for the removal of the prostate, now frequently performed, it is important to notice that the capsule has but very slight connection either with the venous plexus or with the sheath of pelvic fascia. It is on this account that the gland can be so easily shelled out from its surroundings. The prostate presents for examination a base or superior surface, an apex or inferior extremity, a posterior surface, two lateral surfaces, and an anterior, rounded border. The base looks upwards, surrounds the internal urethral orifice, and, in a considerable part of its extent, is structurally continuous with the bladder. Around the greater part of its circumference, however, it is separated from the bladder by a grooye in which is lodged a group of thin-walled veins known as the prostatico-vesical plexus. The apex abuts against the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm (Fig. 224). The posterior surface is usually a flat triangular area which rests on the anterior aspect of the rectum, but, occasionally, it is marked by a median vertical groove. The two lateral surfaces rest upon the levatores ani muscles, and are separated from each other by the prominent rounded anterior border, from which the urethra emerges immediately above the apex of the gland.ABDOMEN 596 The delicate ejaculatory ducts pierce the base of the prostate a short distance behind the internal urethral orifice of the bladder, and, as they descend, they separate the so-called middle lobe from the remainder of the gland, which is generally spoken of as consisting of two lateral lobes. Vesiculae Seminales.—The two seminal vesicles lie between the fundus of the bladder and the rectum. Each is about two inches (50 mm.) in length and is conical or piriform in shape. The lower pointed end of each vesicle rests on the Fig. 240.—Horizontal section through the Bladder and Rectum at the level at which the ureters enter the bladder. base of the prostate, and the blunt upper end lies in the sacro-genital fold of peritoneum in relation with the recto- vesical excavation of peritoneum, and with the entrance of . the ureter into the bladder. At their lower extremities ; ! the vesicles are separated from each other only by the inter- posed deferent ducts, but they diverge as they ascend, and ^ their upper ends are wide apart. They are enclosed, together with the deferent ducts, which lie along their medial sides, in a dense sheath derived from the recto-vesical layer of the visceral pelvic fascia. Each vesicula seminalis is in reality a closed tube, five or six inches long, which is coiled upon itself and bound into vesicular form by the dense areolar tissue in which it is though there is no structural demarcation between them. Seminal vesicle Rectum Ureter Trigone of bladder Ureter Ductus deferens orifice Internal urethralPELVIS 597 embedded. When it is unravelled several blind diverticula will be found to proceed from the main tube. The lower end of the tube, which is called the excretory duct, emerges from the pointed lower end of the vesicle and joins with the ductus deferens, at an acute angle, to form the ejaculatory duct. Ductus Deferens (O.T. Vas Deferens).—The deferent duct, or duct of the testicle, was previously traced to the abdominal inguinal ring (p. 410), through which it enters the abdomen. Separating itself from the other constituents of the spermatic cord, it hooks round the inferior epigastric artery, and descends on the medial side of the external iliac vessels to the pelvis. It then runs backwards, on the side wall of the pelvis, immediately lateral to the peritoneum, through which it is clearly visible, and it crosses, in turn, the umbilical artery, the obturator nerve, the superior vesical artery, and the ureter. Immediately beyond the ureter it turns sharply medially towards the fundus of the bladder, enters the pelvic fascia, comes into relation with the blunt upper end of the seminal vesicle, and runs downwards and medialwards, in close apposi- tion with the upper or medial side of the vesicle, to the base of the bladder. There, lying close to the median plane, and to its fellow of the opposite side, it turns vertically downwards to the base of the prostate. The lower part of the duct is dilated, tortuous, and sacculated, and is termed the ampulla, but its lower end narrows greatly and joins with the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the ejaculatory duct. Triangle on th.e Base of the Bladder.—It is customary to describe a triangle at the base of the bladder, bounded laterally by the deferent ducts, and above by the reflection of the peritoneum at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation. When the pelvic viscera are hardened in situ, by formalin injection, such a space can hardly be said to exist, owing to the approximation of the ampullae of the deferent ducts, but it is possible that when the bladder is distended the space between the deferent ducts may be increased. Dissection.—The peritoneum has already been lifted up and the extra-peritoneal fat removed to show the visceral branches of the hypo- gastric artery. The pelvic fascia must now be removed and the remaining branches of the hypogastric artery and the accompanying veins must be followed, so far as they lie in the pelvis. Accomjianying the arteries a number of nerve twigs from the pelvic plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves, should be noticed and preserved. As the dissector approaches the posterior pelvic wall he must pull the rectum forwards, and as he docs this he should note that branches from the sympathetic cord and from the 1—38 6598 ABDOMEN third and fourth sacral nerves pass to its walls. Whilst the pelvic fascia is being removed from the sacral region care must be taken not to injure the sacro-pudendal and coccygeal plexuses and their roots and the sympathetic cord, which all lie immediately behind the fascia. The lateral sacral arteries will serve as useful guides, for as they run medially, from the posterior division of the hypogastric artery, they lie in front of the sacral plexus, and as one or other of them descends along the front of the sacrum it lies immediately to the lateral side of the sympathetic cord and across the roots of the sacral nerves as they issue from the anterior sacral foramina. Pelvic Blood-Vessels.—The pelvic arteries are the following :— 1. The hypogastric and its branches (upon each side). 2. The middle sacral ) , ,. , , , T,, . , u -j 1 1 (near the median plane). 3. i he superior hfemorrhoidal j ' r / Arteria Hypogastrica (O.T. Internal Iliac Artery).—The hypogastric artery is the medial terminal branch of the , common iliac artery; it is a short, wide vessel, about one and a half inches long (37 mm.) and much smaller in the adult than the external iliac artery. It commences opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, at the level of the lumbo-sacral articulation ; it runs downwards and backwards in the pelvis, and ends, near the upper border of the great sciatic notch, by dividing into an anterior and a posterior division. Relations.—To its lateral side are the obturator nerve, and, at a higher level, the external iliac vein, which separates it from the medial border of the psoas. In fro7it is the ureter, and behind is the hypogastric vein. Medially it is covered by peritoneum, which separates the right artery from coils of the ileum and the left from the pelvic colon. In the female the ovary and the ovarian end of the Fallopian tube are anterior relations of the artery and of the ureter, from both of which they are separated by the parietal peritoneum. Condition in the Foetus.—Very different is the condition < of the hypogastric artery in the foetus. It is twice as large | as the external iliac artery. Instead of terminating at the sciatic notch it runs forwards and ascends, on the posterior aspect of the anterior abdominal wall, to the umbilicus, through which it passes, in company with its fellow of the opposite side and the umbilical vein. Outside the abdominal cavity the hypogastric arteries enter the umbilical cord, and, twining spirally round the umbilical vein, they reach the placenta, where the impure blood which they carry is brought into relation with the maternal blood.599 PELVIS After birth, when the umbilical cord is ligatured and divided, a portion of each hypogastric artery, from the umbilicus to the sciatic notch, undergoes atrophy, and is ultimately converted into a fibrous cord known as the lateral umbilical ligament. This springs from the lower end of the trunk, or from the anterior division of the hypogastric artery, and runs forward on the side wall of the pelvis to the apex of the bladder, whence it ascends to the umbilicus. At the side of the pelvis it lies at a higher level than the obturator nerve, and it passes to the lateral side of the ductus deferens. For about the first two inches of its extent it has a small lumen, and from this part one or more superior vesical branches arise.^ Branches of the Divisions of the Hypogastric Artery. Anterior Division. Posterior Division. Parietal. Visceral. Parietal. Visceral. Obturator. Superior vesical. Ilio-lumbar. None. Internal Inferior Lateral pudendal. vesical. sacral. Inferior Middle Superior glutatal. hemor- rhoidal. gluteal. Arterise Vesicales Superiores (Superior Vesical Arteries). —As a rule there are two or three slender superior vesical arteries which spring from the umbilical artery. They supply the greater part of the superior and infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder, and occasionally one of them gives off the artery to the ductus deferens., an extremely slender branch which can be traced along the deferent duct to the testicle. Ai'teria Vesicalis Inferior (Inferior Vesical Artery).— ’ Although the portion ot the hypogastric artery of the foetus which runs from the great sciatic notch through the umbilicus to the placenta is the direct continuation of the main trunk, it is frequently called the umbilical artery and is spoken of as a branch of the hypogastric artery. When this terminology is adopted the lateral umbilical ligament is said to be the remains of the umbilical artery.ABDOMEN 6oo This is usually of larger size than any of the superior vesical branches. It crosses in front of the ureter and over or under the angular bend of the deferent duct to reach the base of the bladder, where it ramifies, sending twigs to the bladder, the seminal vesicle, the ductus deferens, and the prostate. It frequently gives off the artery to the defere7it duct. Arteria Hsemorrhoidalis Media (Middle Hsemorrhoidal) may arise independently or in common with the inferior vesical, and it may pass in front of the lower part of the ureter or behind it. It is distributed mainly to the muscular coat of the rectum, where it anastomoses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal vessels. It supplies twigs also to the prostate, the deferent ducts, the seminal vesicles, and the bladder. Arteria Obturatoria (Obturator Artery).—The obturator artery runs forwards on the inner aspect of the pelvic wall to the upper margin of the obturator foramen, where it enters the obturator canal. In the pelvis it lies in the extra- peritoneal fat below the obturator nerve and above the vein. It gives some small iliac branches to the iliac fossa, and a pubic branch which ascends behind the pubis to anastomose with the pubic branch of the inferior epigastric artery. This anasto- mosis may become converted into either the commencement | of the obturator which then arises from the inferior epigastric, | or the commencement of the inferior epigastric which then l arises from the obturator, and, in either case, it may pass to ' the medial side or to the lateral side of the femoral ring; thus it attains a close relationship with a femoral hernia. Arteria Pudenda Interna (O.T. Internal Pudic Artery). —In the pelvic part of its course the internal pudendal artery proceeds downwards in front of the piriformis muscle and the sacral nerves. It leaves the pelvis by passing between the piriformis and the coccygeus muscles, and through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. Arteria Glutaea Inferior (O.T. Sciatic Artery).—The inferior glutccal artery is usually the largest branch given off by the anterior division of the hypogastric artery, and, as a rule, it lies behind the internal pudendal. It passes down in front of the piriformis muscle and the sacral plexus, and frequently through one of the loops of the plexus. It leaves the pelvis by passing between the piriformis and coccygeus muscles and through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen (Fig. 85).PELVIS 6o I Arteria Ilio-liimbalis (Ilio-lumbar Artery). — The ilio- lumbar artery springs from the posterior division of the hypo- gastric artery and passes upwards, laterally, and backwards, behind the obturator nerve, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas magnus muscle, into the iliac fossa, where it divides into lumbar and iliac branches. The lumbar branch runs upwards, and terminates in the substance of the quadratus lum- borum and psoas magnus muscles, where it anastomoses with the lower lumbar arteries. It gives olf a small spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The iliac branch breaks up into branches, some of which run laterally in the substance of the iliacus and others between the muscle and the bone. One of the latter set enters the nutrient foramen in the iliac fossa. The terminal branches reach the crest of the ilium, where they anastomose with the deep circumflex iliac and lumbar arteries. Arteria Glutaea Superior (O.T. Glutseal Artery).—The superior glutaeal artery is the largest branch of the hypogastric artery, and may be regarded as the continuation of the posterior division. Its course in the pelvis is short. It passes back- wards, between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and leaves the cavity through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen, above the piriformis muscle. Arteria Sacralis Lateralis (Lateral Sacral Artery).—The lateral sacral artery is occasionally a single vessel, but more commonly it is represented by two branches, which run medialwards in front of the sacral nerves to the lateral borders of the anterior sacral foramina. The upper of the two enters the first sacral foramen. The lower runs down- wards, lateral to the foramina and the sympathetic cord, and across the roots of the sacral nerves, to the tip of the coccyx where it anastomoses with the middle sacral artery. As it descends it sends spinal branches into the foramina. These assist the upper artery to supply the membranes and nerve-roots within the canal; then they emerge through the posterior sacral foramina and anastomose with branches of the superior glutseal artery. Arteria Hsemorrhoidalis Superior (Superior Hsemorrhoidal Artery).—The superior haemorrhoidal artery is the direct continuation of the inferior mesenteric artery. It enters the root of the pelvic meso-colon and descends in it as far as the6o2 ABDOMEN third piece of the sacrum. There it divides into two branches which proceed downwards, one on either side of the rectum. Each of these branches soon breaks up into smaller branches, which range themselves round the gut and pierce its muscular coat about the middle of its length. Within the submucous coat they proceed down to the anal canal, where it is usual to find one within each rectal column (p. 6io). The terminal twigs anastomose freely with each other and with branches of the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. Arteria Sacralis Media (Middle Sacral Artery).—During the dissection of the abdomen the middle sacral artery was seen springing from the back of the termination of the aorta above the common iliac arteries. It descends in front of the bodies of the lower two lumbar vertebrse and behind the left common iliac vein. Reaching the sacrum, it continues downwards in the medial plane to the tip of the coccyx. It supplies the coccygeal body, and, from each side, it gives off small twigs which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries. Veins of the Pelvis.—The arrangement of the veins in the pelvis corresponds in great measure to that of the arteries; but there are some important differences, viz. :— (1) The dorsal vein of the pejiis, instead of joining the internal pudendal vein, enters the pelvis and divides into two branches, which join the pudendal plexus of veins. (2) The ilio-lumbar and middle sacral veins pour their blood, as a rule, into the common iliac veins, (3) The veins round the prostate, bladder, and rectum are large and numerous, and form dense plexuses, which com- municate freely with each other. The pudendal (O.T. prostatic') and vesical plexuses have already been noticed; the blood is drained from them chiefly by the vesical veins. The hcemorrhoidal plexus consists of two parts, one in the sub- mucous coat and one on the surface of the gut. It is the latter which is seen in the dissection. The blood is drained from it by three groups of channels, viz. the stiperior Immor- rhoidal vein, which ends in the inferior mesenteric vein; the middle hcemorrhoidal vems, which end in the hypo- gastric veins; and the inferior hcemor7-hoidal vems, which go to the internal pudendal veins. The hjemorrhoidal plexus is therefore a link between the portal and systemic603 PELVIS systems of veins. This is of practical importance in associa- tion with the production of hsemorrhoids or piles, which are due to a varicose condition of the hgemorrhoidal veins. It has been noted that the portal vein and its tributaries are without valves; consequently, anything which retards the flow of blood through the portal system will react upon the hasmorrhoidal plexus, cause its distension, and predispose to haemorrhoids. Vena Hypogastrica (O.T. Internal Iliac Vein).—This is a trunk which lies behind the hypogastric artery. Its tributaries correspond to the branches of the hypogastric artery, except that the ilio-lumbar vein opens into the common iliac vein. The Lymph Vessels of the Pelvis.—It is only in rare cir- cumstances that the dissector will be able to display any of the pelvic lymphatic vessels, but in favourable subjects he will be able to localise some of the pelvic lymph glands. The main groups of lymph glands of the pelvis are (i) the hypogastric glands-, (2) the sacral glands and (3) the rectal glands. The hypogastric glands are situated on the lateral pelvic wall, near the origins of the branches of the hypogastric artery. They receive lymphatics from the membranous part of the urethra, the lower part of the bladder, the prostate, the upper part of the anal canal, and the lower part of the rectum. Their efferent vessels pass to glands situated round the common iliac artery. The sacral glands lie along the medial sides of the anterior sacral foramina. They receive lymph vessels from the adjacent bones and ligaments, from the rectal glands, and from the prostate. Their efferent vessels end in the common iliac glands. The rectal glands, four or five in number, lie in relation with the superior haemorrhoidal vein and its two main tributaries. They receive lymph from the rectum, and their efferent vessels terminate in the lateral sacral glands. Dissection.—As soon as the examination of the pelvic vessels is com- pleted the viscera should be drawn as far as possible from the lateral wall of the pelvis, any vessels which tend to prevent the movement should be divided, and then the pelvic diaphragm should be examined. It is com- posed of two muscles on each side—viz., the levator ani and the coccygeus. Both the muscles must be cleaned, and whilst this is being done care must be taken to avoid injuring the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves as they pierce the coccygeus near the coccyx. M. Levator Ani.—This is a strong sheet of muscle fibres.6o4 ABDOMEN which forms the anterior and greater part of the pelvic dia- phragm. It has a triple origin. The anterior fibres arise from the back of the pubic bone between the attachments of the visceral and parietal layers of the endo-pelvic fascia; the posterior fibres arise from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine; the intermediate fibres, constituting the greater part of the muscle, take origin in the angle between the visceral and parietal layers of the pelvic fascia. Insertion.—The miterior fibres pass downwards and back- wards. A few of them are inserted into the central point of the perineum, others are inserted into the wall of the anal canal, between the internal and external sphincters, and some join with the intermediate fibres., which sweep round into the angle between the posterior wall of the rectum and the upper end of the anal canal, where they unite with their fellows of the opposite side and form a strong muscular collar round the gut; the lower fibres of this group are inserted into the posterior wall of the anal canal between the two sphincters. The posterior fibres pass backwards and medially, and are inserted into the median ano-coccygeal raphe behind the rectum, and into the side of the lower part of the coccyx. The anterior fibres of the muscles of the opposite sides embrace the lateral surfaces of the prostate as they pass back- wards, and are frequently called the levatores prostata (Fig. 239). As the intermediate and posterior fibres pass to their insertions they support the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder and the lateral walls of the rectum. When the muscle contracts, as a whole, it tends to elevate the pelvic viscera. The fibres inserted into the wall of the anal canal will pull that wall upwards over descending feces, and will therefore aid defecation. The fibres which form the collar- like loop round the angle between the rectum and the anal passage will, on contraction, increase that angle, and tend to prevent the passage of the contents of the rectum into the anal passage. M. Coccygeus.—This is a small triangular muscle which continues the plane of the pelvic diaphragm posterior to the levator ani. It arises from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine and the adjacent pelvic fascia, and, expanding as it passes medially, it is inserted into the margin of the last piece of the sacrum and the anterior surface of the upper part of the coccyx. Its anterior margin is continuous with the levator ani.60s PELVIS and its posterior margin is separated from the lower border of the piriformis by the inferior glutmal and pudendal vessels and the sciatic and pudendal nerves as they pass out of the pelvis. The Pelvic Nerve Plexuses.—There are two pelvic spinal nerve plexuses, viz. the sacro-pudendal and the coccygeal. The Lumbo-sacral cord Superior glut$al nerve Inferior glutaeal nerve To piriformis To piriformis 5111 Visceral S.IV VLsceral Nerve to quadratus femoris Nerve to obturator internus Sciatic nerve Common peronaeal nerve / Sciatic nerve \ Tibial nerve Post. cut. N. of thigb (O.T. small sciatic) Perineal N. and dorsal N. of penis I Pudendal Inferior hmmorrhoidal nerve f nerve Perforating cutaneous nerve '——' Nerves to levator ani Coccygeal branches Fig. 241.—Diagram of Sacral Ple.xus. former is situated on the posterior wall of the pelvis in front of the piriformis muscle, and the latter lies on the coccygeus muscle close to the side of the coccyx. The Sacro-Pudendal Plexus (O.T. Sacral Plexus).—The anterior primary divisions of six spinal nerves take part in the formation of this plexus, viz., part of the fourth lumbar nerve, the fifth lumbar, the first, second, and third sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral nerve. The first and6o6 ABDOMEN second sacral nerves are very large, and of about equal size; the third is much smaller, and the fourth still smaller. Each of the anterior rami, before it joins the plexus, receives a branch from the nearest sympathetic ganglion, and the third and fourth sacral nerves give white rami communicantes to the sympathetic pelvic plexuses. By the union of the branch of the fourth lumbar nerve with the fifth lumbar nerve, in the abdomen, a lumbosacral trwik is formed. This descends behind the common iliac artery and over the pelvic brim into the pelvic cavity, where it unites with the first sacral nerve, forming a loop through which the superior glutteal artery passes. By the union of the other sacral roots a series of similar loops is formed, and the inferior glutseal artery frequently runs through one or other of these before it leaves the pelvis. Beyond the loops the plexus usually takes the < form of two flattened bands—viz. an upper or sciatic band and a lower or pudendal band. The sciatic ba?id is very large, and consists of the lumbo-sacral trunk with the first sacral nerve and the greater portions of the second and third sacral nerves. It runs downwards and laterally, narrowing and thickening as it descends, and, passing first between the adjacent borders of the piriformis and coccygeus, and then through the great sciatic foramen, it leaves the pelvis and enters the buttock as the sciatic nerve. The. pudendal band is small. It consists of fibres of the ^ second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. It also passes be- tween the adjacent borders of the piriformis and coccygeus muscles, and it is continued from the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen as the pudendal nerve. The student who has already dissected the lower extremity will remember that the sciatic nerve breaks up into common peroneal (ext. popliteal) and tibial (int. popliteal) divisions. It occasionally happens that the two divisions arise separ- ately from the sacral plexus. When this is the case there is no sciatic band, and it becomes evident that the common peroneal nerve is derived from the dorsal divisions of the anterior branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves, and the tibial nerve from the ventral divisions of the anterior branches of the same nerves,- and also from the ventral division of the anterior branch of the third sacral nerve. Moreover, when the common peronealPELVIS 607 thus arises directly from the sacral plexus, it usually perforates the piriformis muscle on its way out of the pelvis. In addition to the two main bands into which the plexus resolves itself (sciatic and pudendal) various other branches are given off. They are :— 1. Superior glutreal. 2. Inferior gluteal. 3. Posterior cutaneous of the thigh (O.T. small sciatic). 4. Nerve to the obturator internus and superior gemellus. 5. Nerve to the quadratus femoris and inferior gemellus. 6. Perforating cutaneous nerve. 7. Branches to the piriformis muscle. 8. Branches to the pelvic viscera. Nervus Glutseus Superior (Superior Glutseal Nerve).— I he superior glutaeal nerve arises from the posterior aspect of the plexus and contains fibres of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves. It passes, with the superior glutseal artery, above the upper border of the piriformis muscle, and leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sciatic foramen. It is distributed, in the glutaeal region, to the glutseus medius and glutseus minimus, and to the tensor fascise latse muscles. Nervus Glutseus Inferior (Inferior Glutseal Nerve).—This is the special branch of supply to the glutseus maximus. It also springs from the back, of the plexus, and contains fibres of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It passes below the piriformis and through the great sciatic foramen into the buttock. Nervus Cutaneus Femoris Posterior (O.T. Small Sciatic).— This nerve arises from the back of the plexus and contains fibres of the second and third sacral nerves. It passes between the piriformis and coccygeus, and leaves the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic foramen. The Nerve to the Obturator Internus springs from the anterior aspect of the plexus, and contains fibres of the fifth lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. It leaves the pelvis with the pudendal nerve, and, after giving a twig to the superior gemellus in the glutseal region, it reaches the obturator internus by passing through the small sciatic foramen. It sinks into the medial aspect of the muscle. The Nerve to the Quadratus Femoris springs from the anterior aspect of the plexus, receiving fibres from the fourth and fifth lumbar and the first sacral nerves. It accompaniesABDOMEN 6o8 the sciatic trunk out of the pelvis, and supplies not only the quadratus femoris but also the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint. The Perforating Cutaneous Nerve springs from the back of the plexus and contains fibres of the second and third sacral nerves. It pierces the sacro-tuberous ligament, winds round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin over the lower and medial part of that muscle. The Twigs to the Piriformis spring usually from the first and second sacral nerves. The Visceral Branches (white rami communicantes) are derived mainly from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The Coccygeal Plexus.—-This is a small, looped plexus. It is formed by the lower branch of the fourth sacral nerve, the fifth sacral nerve, and the coccygeal nerve. Besides join- > ing with the fifth, the fourth sacral nerve gives branches to the coccygeus and the levator ani, the latter branch being known as the perineal b7-anch of the fourth sacral. It also supplies white rami convmmicantes which join the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic and supply the pelvic viscera. The fifth sacral 7ierve enters the pelvis by piercing the i coccygeus. It communicates with the fourth sacral and the | coccygeal nerves and gives branches to the coccygeus muscle. i The coccygeal nerve also enters the pelvis by piercing the i coccygeus muscle. Having communicated with the fifth I sacral nerve it runs downwards and leaves the pelvis by again i piercing the coccygeus muscle. It ends in the skin in the neighbourhood of the tip of the coccyx. Pelvic Plexuses of the Sympathetic.—It has already been noted that the hypogastric plexus, which lies in front of the last lumbar vertebra, ends below by dividing into the two pelvic plexuses. These are prolonged downwards, one on each side of the rectum. Each pelvic plexus receives numerous branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves and from the pelvic portion of the sympathetic cord of the same side. The points at which these unite with the plexuses are marked by minute ganglia. Prolongations from each pelvic plexus are sent along the various branches of the hypogastric artery of the same side. There are thus formed various secondary plexuses, viz. the ^ vesical plexus associated with the bladder, the seminal vesicles, ^ and the vas deferens ; the hcemori-hoidal plexus distributed toPELVIS 609 the rectum, and the prostatic plexus connected with the prostate. The prostatic plexus proceeds forwards between the prostate and the levator ani, and sends branches, called the cavernous nerves, to the penis. Gangliated Cords of the Sympathetic.—The sympathetic cords reach the pelvis considerably reduced in size.. They pass downwards along the medial margins of the anterior sacral foramina, and they end in the medial plane, in front of the coccyx, in a minute unpaired ganglion, the ganglion impar. There are generally four ganglia on the pelvic portion of each sympathetic cord, and each ganglion is con- nected with one of the sacral nerves by a grey communicating root. The other branches from the ganglia are distributed chiefly to the anterior surface of the sacrum around the middle sacral artery. From the upper ganglia branches proceed to the pelvic plexuses, and from the ganglion impar branches are given to the parts about the coccyx and to the coccygeal body. The Coccygeal Body.—This is a lobulated body, about the size of a small pea, which lies in front of the tip of the coccyx. It is composed of masses of polyhedral cells inter- mingled with strands of connective tissue, numerous sym- pathetic nerve twigs, and branches of the middle sacral artery. Its function is unknown. Dissection.—The viscera should now be removed, and the structure of the walls of the bladder and rectum should be examined. Structure of the Rectum.—The rectum possesses the following coats;—i. Serous. 2. Fascial. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous. The peritoneal serous coat, and the fascial coat derived from the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, have already been examined. Muscular Coat of the Rectum.—This coat is strong, and is composed of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of involuntary or unstriped muscle-fibres. The longi- tudinal fibres are continuous above with the three longitudinal bands of the colon. As these bands pass downwards the fibres which compose them spread out to form a continuous layer round the rectum. The layer is not, however, uniformly thick on all aspects of the gut, for in front and on the back the fibres are massed to form two broad bands, which main- VOL. I—396io ABDOMEN tain’ the flexures and prevent the rectum from elongating as it becomes loaded. The circular muscle fibres form a more or less uniform layer internal to the longitudinal fibres, and they are prolonged into the bases of the rectal valves. Muscular Coat of the Anal Canal.—The muscular wall of the anal canal is very thick and powerful. The internal circular layer of muscle-fibres prolonged down from the rectum is greatly thickened to form a muscular cylinder, the internal sphincter., which embraces the whole length of the canal, except the lower half-inch. The longitudinal fibres from the rectum are also prolonged downwards, outside the internal sphincter, and they blend with the fibres of the levator ani, which are inserted into the wall of the canal between the internal and the external sphincters. The external sphincter surrounds the lower part of the canal outside the levator ani. The submucous coat of the rectum and anal canal is composed of lax areolar tissue, which allows the mucous coat to move freely on the muscular coat. It contains vessels and nerves. The Mucous Membrane of the Eectum and Anal Canal is thicker and more movable upon the muscular -tunic than the mucous membrane of the colon, and, in consequence of this mobility, it is thrown into irregular folds or rugte when the gut is empty. In the upper part of the anal canal the mucous membrane is thrown into a series of longitudinal folds, the columnce rectales (Morgagni). A short distance above the anal orifice the columns are connected by a number of irregular semilunar folds called the anal valves. In the con- cavity of each valve is a pocket-like recess, the smus rectalis. The folds are of importance in connection with the condition known as fissured anus, and they indicate the level at which the scaly epithelium of the integument merges into the columnar epithelium of the gut. Plicae Transversales Eecti (O.T. Valves of Houston).— These folds are not always visible, and are usually seen best in a rectum which has been fixed with formalin when in a state of distension. They are three in number in conformity with the inflections of the gut, consequently there are two on the left side and one, the largest, on the right side. Each is formed by an infolding of the mucous, submucous, and jjart of the muscular coat. The positions of the folds are variable ; but the right and largest is usually placed at the level of the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation of peritoneum, whilstPELVIS 6i I 1—39 a the two left folds are situated, one an inch and a half above the right fold, and the other the same distance below it (Birmingham). The Structure of the Walls of the Bladder.—The bladder possesses the following five coats :— I. Serous. 2. Subserous. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous. The serous or peritoneal covering has already been examined. The subserous coat is a thin stratum of areolar tissue which connects the peritoneum with the muscular coat. The Muscular Coat.—The fibres of the muscular wall of the bladder are arranged in three layers:— I. External longitudinal fibres. 2. Circular fibres. 3. Internal longi- tudinal fibres. The external longitudinal fibres, frequently spoken of as the detrusor nrince, spring from the back of the pubic bones, the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and the base of the prostate. They ascend from these attachments over the anterior border and the medial parts of the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder. At the apex a few pass into the urachus, but the majority pass backwards over the superior surface and the base of the bladder to the prostate, to which they are attached. On the lateral parts of the infero-lateral surfaces and on the lateral borders of the bladder this layer is less complete, and the fibres take a more oblique direction. The circular fibres are arranged in coarse bundles, which run obliquely as well as circularly round the bladder and constitute the greater part of its muscular coat. At the internal urethral orifice the bundles become finer and are massed together to form a sphincter, the fibres of which are more or less continuous with those of the prostate. The internal longitudinal fibres are absent on the fundus, and form only an incomplete layer on the other walls of the bladder. The Submucous Coat is a layer of loose areolar tissue which forms a loose connection between the mucous and muscular coats, except in the region of the trigone where the connection is much closer. The blood-vessels and nerves ramify in the submucous layer before they enter the mucous coat. The Mucous Coat was examined when the bladder was opened (p. 571).612 ABDOMEN Dissection.—Remove the levator ani, leaving small portions attached to its bony origins, viz. the body of the pubis and the spine of the ischium. Take away all the remains of the parietal pelvic fascia from the side-wall of the pelvis, and the obturator internus will be exposed. M. Obturator Internus.—This muscle clothes the lateral wall of the pelvis on its inner aspect. It is fan-shaped and takes an extensive origin, viz. (i) from the circumference of the obturator foramen, except above where the obturator vessels and nerves quit the pelvis; (2) from the deep surface of the obturator membrane; (3) from the surface of bone behind the obturator foramen as far back as the great sciatic notch. A few fibres are also derived from the parietal pelvic fascia which covers it. From these origins the fibres converge towards the small sciatic notch, and end in a tendon which issues from the pelvis through the small sciatic foramen. In the gluteal region the tendon is inserted, together with the two gemelli, ' into the medial margin of the upper border of the greater trochanter of the femur. The margin of the small sciatic notch over which the tendon glides is coated with smooth cartilage, and this is' raised into three or four parallel ridges which fit into fissures in the deep surface of the tendon. A synovial bursa intervenes between the tendon and the cartilage. The obturator internus is supplied by a special branch from the front of the upper part of the sacral plexus (p. 607). M. Piriformis.—The piriformis lies on the anterior i aspect of the posterior pelvic wall. It arises by three pro- cesses from the anterior surface of the sacrum in the region of the second, third, and fourth sacral segments, between and outside the foramina and, to a slight extent, medial to the foramina; it takes origin also from the upper border of the great sciatic notch and from the sacro-tuberous ligament. The muscle leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and is inserted, by a rounded tendon, into the middle of the upper border of the great trochanter of the femur. It is supplied by branches from the first and second sacral nerves. Ligg. CiNGULi Extremitatis Inferioris (Ligaments of THE Pelvic Articulations). The pelvis is attached to the last lumbar vertebra at the lumbo-sacral articulation, and its several parts are heldPELVIS 6I3 1—39 h together by the following articulations:—(i) Sacro-coccygeal; (2) Coccygeal; (3) Sacro-iliac; (4) Pubic. Dissection.—The nerves and blood-vessels of the pelvis, and all ad- hering p)ortions of muscle, must now be removed from the innominate bone and from the front and back of the sacrum. When this is done the pelvis should be soaked for some time in warm water. By this proceeding the dissection of the ligaments will be rendered much easier. Lumbo-sacral Articulations. — The last lumbar vertebra is joined to the sacrum by one synchondrosis., which connects the body of the vertebra to the base of the sacrum, and by two diarthrodial foints, between the two pairs of articular processes. Capsulce Articulares (^Capsular ligaments) surround the articulations formed by the apposition of the articular pro- cesses. Ligamentum Longitudmale Anterius (O.T. Anterior Cotnmon Ligament).—The anterior longitudinal ligament of the vertebral column is continued downwards, over the anterior aspect of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, to the anterior aspect of the first segment of the sacrum. In a similar manner the ligamentum longitudinale posterius is prolonged downwards, within the spinal canal, over the posterior aspect of the body of the last lumbar vertebra, to the upper part of that portion of the sacrum which forms the anterior wall of the sacral canal. Ligamenta Flava (O.T. Ligamenta Suhflavci) are also present. These are two short bands of yellow elastic tissue placed one on each side of the medial plane. Superiorly they are attached to the anterior aspect of the lower borders of the laminae of the last lumbar vertebra; whilst inferiorly they are fixed to the posterior aspect of the upper margins of the laminae of the first sacral segment. Ligamentum Lnterspinale. — An interspinous ligament connects the lower border of the spinous process of the last lumbar vertebra with the upper border of the spinous process of the first sacral vertebra. A ligametitum supraspinale passes between the extremities of the same spinous processes. So far, then, the ligaments of the lumbo-sacral articulations are identical with those which, above the level of the sacrum, bind the several segments of the spinal column together. Two additional ligaments, viz. the lumbo-sacral and the ilio- lumbar, must now be examined.6i4 ABDOMEN The lumbosacralliga7?ientis the representative of the anterior costo-transverse ligaments. It is a strong triangular fibrous band attached by its apex to the tip and lower border of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra. Expanding as it proceeds downwards, it is fixed below to the posterior membrane Long ^ posterior acro-iliac ligament Reflected head rectus Great sciatic foramen llio-lumbar ligament Short posterior sacro-iliac ligament Lig. sacro* spinosus Sciatic Lig. sacro- tuberosuni Fig. 242.—Posterior View of the Pelvic Ligaments and of the Hip-joint, part of the base of the sacrum, where some of its fibres intermingle with those of the sacro-iliac ligaments. Ligamentum lliolumbale.—The ilio-lumbar ligament may be considered a thickened and specially developed part of the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. It lies in the same plane and is directly continuous with it. It is triangular in shape, and is fixed by its apex to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra. Proceeding horizontallyPELVIS 615 and laterally, it is inserted into the medial lip of the iliac crest at the posterior part of the iliac fossa. The synchondrosis between the body of the last lumbar vertebra and the base of the sacrum corresponds, in every respect, to the similar articulations between the bodies of the vertebrae above. The opposed bony surfaces are each coated by a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, and are firmly united by an intervening disc of fibro-cartilage, which is dense and laminated externally, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The dissector should observe that this disc is the thickest of the series, and further, that it is wedge-shaped, being thicker in front than behind. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation.—This is a synchondrosis. The articulating surfaces are each covered by a thin cartilaginous plate, and these are united by a disc of fibro- cartilage. The joint is strengthened in front by an anterior ligament, which extends downwards from the front of the sacrum to the anterior aspect of the coccyx, and by a posterior ligament which, attached above to the posterior border of the lower aperture of the sacral canal, proceeds downwards upon the posterior aspect of the coccyx. The latter ligament is much the stronger of the two. In addition, fibrous bands will be found passing between the cornua of the sacrum and the coccyx, and also between the lateral angles of the sacrum and the transverse processes of the first piece of the coccyx. As regards the coccygeal joints (when such exist), the union of the different segments of the bone is brought about by intervening cartilaginous discs and anterior and posterior ligaments. Sacro-iliac Articulation.—The sacrum is wedged in between the two innominate bones, and is held fast in this position by the sinuous form of the opposed articular surfaces, and by the strong ligaments which pass between the bones. These ligaments are:— I. The anterior sacro-iliac. 2. The interosseous sacro-iliac. 3. The long posterior sacro-iliac. 4. The short posterior sacro-iliac ligament. 5. The sacro-tuberous ligament. 6. The sacro-spinous ligament. Ligamentum Sacroiliacum Anterius.—The anterior sacro- iliac ligament is by no means strong. It is composed of a series of short fibres stretching across the front of the joint, and connecting the bones anteriorly.ABDOMEN 6i6 Ligamentum Sacroiliacum Interrosseum.—The interosseous sacro-iliac ligament \?, strong. It consists of fibrous bands, which connect the rough surface on the posterior part of the lateral aspect of the sacrum with a corresponding rough surface on the ilium, behind the auricular surface. Upon the interosseus sacro-iliac ligaments the strength of the articu- lation chiefly depends. As the sacrum narrows towards its dorsal surface it cannot be regarded as forming a typical key- stone of an arch. It may be regarded as being, in a great measure, suspended from the iliac bones by ligaments. Great sciatic foramen Small sciatic foramen Acetabulum Lig. sacro-tuberosus Inter-pubic fibro-carlilage Short posterior sacro-iliac ament Sacro-iliac joint Lig. sacro- tuberosus Lig. sacro- spinosum Ilium Sacrum P'lG. 243.—Coronal section through the Pelvis. Ligamentum Sacroiliacum Posterius Longum.— The long posterior sacro-iliac ligament is fixed above to the posterior superior spine of the ilium ; w'hilst, interiorly, it is inserted into the third tubercle on the posterior surface of the lateral mass of the sacrum. It lies posterior to the interosseous ligament. Jmgamentum Sacroiliacum Posterius Breve. — The short postei'wr sacro-iliac ligament also lies behind the interosseous ligament, and is a short band of fibres which extends from the posterior inferior spine of the ilium to the back of the sacrum. Ligamentum Sacrotuberosum (O.T. Great Sacro-sciatic Liga-PELVIS 617 meni).—The sacro-tuberous ligament has a wide attachment to the posterior superior and posterior inferior iliac spines and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx. Narrowing consider- ably as it proceeds downwards and forwards, it again expands, and is inserted into the medial border of the tuberosity of the ischium. From this it sends upwards a sharp falcifortn edge, which extends forwards for a short distance upon the inferior ramus of the ischium, and gives attachment to the parietal pelvic fascia. It should be noticed that at its ischial attach- ment some of the fibres of the ligament pass continuously into the tendon of the biceps femoris muscle. Ligamentitm Sacrospinosum (O.T. Small Sacro-sciaiic Liga- ment).—The sacro-spinous ligament is triangular in form. By its base it is fixed to the side of the sacrum and coccyx in front of the sacro-tuberous ligament, the fibres of both mingling together; by its apex it is attached to the spine of the ischium. The pelvic surface of this ligament presents an extremely intimate connection with the coccygeus muscle j indeed, it is generally believed that the ligament is derived from the posterior part of the muscle by the fibrous degenera- tion of its fasciculi. The sacro-tuberous and the sacro-spinous ligaments convert the sciatic notches of the hip bone into foramina. Through the great sciatic foramen pass the superior glutaeal vessels and nerve, the piriformis muscle, the pudendal and inferior gluteal vessels and nerve, the nerve to the obturator internus, and the nerve to the quadratus femoris. The stnall sciatic foramen transmits the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, the pudendal vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The sacro-iliac joint is a diarthrodial joint. The ligaments of the joint should now be divided, and the two bones forcibly wrenched asunder. It will then be seen that each articular surface is covered with a plate of cartilage, and that a small synovial space intervenes between and partially separates the two plates. The sacro-iliac joint is not immovable, as is sometimes stated. A slight amount of movement can take place—the sacrum rotating round an imaginary line drawn transversely through its second piece from one side to the other. In the erect posture the promontory of the sacrum is withdrawn to the full extent from the symphysis; when the body is bentABDOMEN 6i8 forwards, the symphysis and the promontory are approximated, and, in consequence, the tension of the sacro-tubercus and sacro-spinous ligaments is increased. Symphysis Ossium Pubis (O.T. Symphysis Pubis).—This is an example of a synchondrosis. In addition to the interven- ing disc of fibro-cartilage which connects the cartilage-covered opposing surfaces of the two pubic bones, four ligaments are present, viz. :— I. Anterior pubic. 2. Posterior pubic. 3. Superior pubic. 4. Arcuate. Ligament um Pubicum Anterius.—The anterior pubic ligament is strongly marked, and consists of two layers of fibres—a superficial and a deep. The superficial fibres are oblique, and cross each other like the limbs of the letter X, mingling with the decussating fibres of the superior crura of the subcutaneous inguinal ring. The deep fibres are transverse, ' and extend across from one bone to the other. Ligamentum Pubicum Posterius.—The posterior pubic liga- ment consists of a very few transverse fibres on the posterior aspect of the joint. Ligamentum Pubicum Superius.—The superior pubic ligament^ like the preceding, is weak. It is placed upon the upper aspect of the symphysis, and stretches between the crests of I the two pubic bones. Ligamentum Arcuatum Pubis (O.T. Sub-pubic Ligameni).— The arcuate pubic ligament is situated on the lower aspect of the joint, rounds off the apex of the pubic arch. It is a strong band, somewhat triangular in shape, which is attached on each side to the inferior ramus of the pubic bone, and above, to the fibro-cartilaginous disc. Between the crescentic lower margin of this ligament and the upper border of the uro-genital diaphragm there is an oval aperture through which the dorsal vein of the penis passes backwards. Dissection.—The saw should now be used, and a portion sliced off from the front of the joint. The intervening plate of fibro-cartilage can in this way be studied. It will be seen to be thicker and denser in front than behind. As a general rule, a small synovial cavity will be found towards its back part, and nearer its upper than its lower end. Membrana Obturatoria (O.T. Thyroid Membrane),—The obturator membrane stretches across the obturator foramen. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen, except at its upper part, where it bridges across the groove on the under surface of the superior ramus of the pubic bone, andconverts it into a canal for the escape of the obturator vessels and nerve. At this point it is continuous, over the upper border of the obturator internus muscle, with the parietal pelvic fascia. The Female Pelvis. The contents of the female pelvis are the following :— Viscera. The pelvic colon and rectum. The bladder and urethra. ^ The uterus and vagina. ^ The uterine appendages. i Uterine tubes. Ovaries, etc. [ Round ligaments. Utero-sacral fold Posterior vaginal fornix Anterior vaginal fornix Retro-pulric jjad of fat Fig. 24-p—Medial section through Female Pelvis, Blood-vessels. Nerves. f The hypoga.stric vessels and their branches. I The superior hrcmorrhoidal vessels. I The ovarian vessels. I Certain venous plexuses in relation with the viscera. ( The obturator nerves. I The pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic and their ( offsets. Peritoneum. ' Strictly speaking, the bladder and urethra, the vagina and the lower part of the rectum, lie in the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia.ABDOMEN 620 The following structures lie in the wall of the pelvis outside the pelvic fascia :— Blood-vessels. Nerves. The middle sacral vessels. The parietal branches of the hypogastric vessels after they have pierced the fascia. The sacral and sacro-coccygeal plexuses. The pelvic parts of the sympathetic cords. General Position of the Viscera.—pelvic colon lies in the hinder and upper part of the cavity, and its loops tend to ^ overlap the other viscera. ' ' - " The rectum occupies the lower and posterior part of the cavity, and is adapted to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder and urethra are situated in front, the former lying against the bodies of the pubic bones. The uterus and vagina occupy an intermediate position; and the, uterine appendages lie laterally between the uterus and the side walls of the pelvis. Peritoneum.—As the peri- toneum descends from the posterior abdominal wall into the pelvis, it gives a complete covering to the pelvic colon and attaches it to the anterior surface of the sacrum by a pelvic meso-colon. At a lower level it gives a partial cover- ing to the rectum, first clothing it on its anterior and lateral surfaces, then on its anterior surface alone. Finally, it quits the gut about three inches above the level of the anus, and is reflected on to the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina, upon which it ascends to the uterus. It covers the whole of the supra-vaginal portion of the posterior surface of the uteru.s, and reaching the fundus turns over and descends on the anterior surface of Fig. 245.—Horizontal section through the Urethra, Vagina, and Anal Canal, a short distance above their termina- tions. (Henle.) Ua. Urethra. | L. Levator ani. i'a. Vagina. I K. Rectum.PELVIS 621 the organ. It covers only the upper two-thirds of this surface, and is then reflected on to the fundus of the bladder. 'I'he vagina, therefore, receives a partial covering of peritoneum posteriorly, but is altogether devoid of peritoneum anteriorly. The whole of the supra-vaginal portion of the posterior surface of the uterus is covered, but only the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface. From each lateral border of the uterus the peritoneum extends laterally in the form of a wing-like fold, the broad liga??ieni, which connects the uterus with the side wall of the pelvis. Upon the upper surface of the bladder the peritoneum varium Lig. of ovary j of ovary infundibulu Meso-salpinx Kiesovariurn Mciomeirium Anterior Body of Fundus wall of .\mpulla of uterine tube Meso* Utenne tube vagina ^pDdices psicuN^si Morgagni Epoophoron V . at. border of broad lig.'' / Corpus luteuni V/ ^ Ovary Lig. of Ovary Lower border of broad lig. Ger\* Os uteri externum. Fig. 246. — The Uterus, the Uterine Tubes, the Ovaries, the Broad Liga- ments, and the upper part of the Vagina seen from behind. The posterior wall of the uterine cavity has been removed, and the left Uterine Tube and the upper part of the Vagina have been opened. passes forwards, and at the apex it is conducted upwards to the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall by the urachus, over which it forms a fold known as the mediati umbilical fold. From each lateral border of the upper sur- face of the bladder the peritoneum extends outwards to the lateral wall of the pelvis, forming the lateral false ligaments. Ligamenta Lata Uteri (Broad Ligaments of the Uterus).— Each broad ligament is a wide fold composed of two layers of peritoneum. It stretches from the lateral border of the uterus to the lateral wall of the pelvis on the same side. The greater part of the superior or anterior border of the ligament is occupied by the uterhie tube. The smaller part, which extends beyond the tube, forms the suspensory ligament of the ovary, and contains the ovarian vessels and nerves. The622 ABDOMEN lo2ver or inferior border or base rests medially on the upper end of the vagina and laterally on the levator ani. 'i’hc anterior or inferior layer of the peritoneal fold is reflected forwards, from the lower border, to become continuous with the lateral false ligament of the bladder, and the posterior Inf. Pouch of Douglas Utero-sacral fold Ureter Obturator fossa ■ Ovary Ovarian vessels 1 ; ; Obturator fossa ! Folds produced by ncrve-cords Pararectal fossa Paravesical fossa Round ligament Umbilical epigastric artery Fig. 247.—Median section through the Female Pelvis to show the disposition of the Peritoneum in relation to the Viscera and to the Lateral M'^all of the Cavity. (Dixon and Birmingham.) layer passes backward into the floor of the genital or middle pelvic fossa. The lateral border of the ligament is attached to the side wall of the pelvis a short distance in front of the hypogastric artery. Two secondary folds spring from the broad ligament, one from each surface. The one from the posterior surface contains the ovary and its ligament, and the one from thePELVIS 623 anterior surface contains the round ligament of the uterus. The portion of the broad ligament between the uterine tube and the ovary is termed the mesosalpinx. The fold which proceeds from the posterior surface of the ligament to the ovary is the 7?iesovarium, and the portion of the broad ligament below the level of the mesovarium is sometimes called the mesometrium. In addition to the uterine tube, the ovary and its ligament, and the round ligament of the uterus, the two layers of the broad ligament include between them other structures, viz. (i) the paroophoron-, (2) the uterme ovarian vessels and nerves. Peritoneal Fossae.—The paravesical fossa lies in front of the broad ligament and at the side of the bladder. The middle or genital fossa is bounded anteriorly by the back of the broad ligament and the ureteral ridge, and posteriorly by a fold of peritoneum, similar to the sacro-genital fold of the male (p. 558), which is called the utero-sacral fold. This is semilunar in form, and curves, on each side, from the back of the uterus to the posterior wall of the pelvis at the side of the rectum. Between its two layers there are some unstriped muscular fibres as well as connective tissue. Where it crosses the back of the uterus it is known as the torus uterinus. The pararectal fossae are situated at the sides of the empty rectum between it and the utero-sacral fold. Excavatio Recto-uterina (Recto-uterine Pouch or Pouch of Douglas) corresponds to the recto-genital pouch or recto- vesical excavation in the male. In front it is bounded by the peritoneum covering the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina and the lower part of the back of the uterus; behmd by the peritoneum on the rectum; while ott each side is the sacro-uterine fold of peritoneum. It is con- tinuous laterally with the pararectal fossae, which are obliterated when the rectum is distended (p. 559). Excavatio Vesico-uterina (Utero-vesical Pouch) is a shallow depression, not always distinguishable, between the uterus and the upper part of the base of the bladder. It is bounded laterally by two slight folds of peritoneum termed the utero-vesical folds. The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—These are the same as in the male (p. 561), except that the utero-vesical folds take the place of the longer sacro-genital folds or posterior false ligaments of the bladder of the male.624 ABDOMEN Dissection.—The dissector should cut through the lateral false ligaments of the bladder at their junctions with the lower borders of the anterior surfaces of the broad ligaments; he should then turn the (lateral false ligaments medially to the lateral borders of the upper surface of the bladder. Next he should draw the apex of the bladder backwards and pass his index finger down through the soft fat, between the anterior border of the bladder and the back of the symphysis pubis, till he feels the resistance of the upper fascia of the pelvic diaphragm which passes medially from the wall of the pelvis to the bladder, and which is thickened on each side of the medial plane to form the medial pubo-vesical ligaments of the bladder. These ligaments having been recognised, the finger should be carried laterally and then backwards between the wall of the pelvis and the bladder, above the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as far as the lateral border of the broad ligament. The dissector will find he can do this quite easily, and by doing it he will demonstrate the fact that between the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder and the wall of the pelvis there is a space filled with easily displaced extra- peritoneal fat; this is the lower and front part of the so-called cave of Retzius. The finger should now be passed still farther backwards along the lateral wall of the pelvis, beyond the lateral border of the broad ligament, until the front of the hypogastric artery is reached ; but little resistance will be metj and the dissector will be able to satisfy himself that the lower part of the so-called cave extends round the sides and front of the pelvis from the hypogastric artery of one side to the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The upper part of the cave lies behind the anterior abdominal wall, extending upwards between the inferior epigastric arteries to the level of the umbilicus. The cave is of practical importance because, on account of the laxity of its fatty contents, urine escaping from a ruptured bladder, or effused blood, or inflammatory exudations, can spread rapidly throughout the area ; moreover it is an area in which the surgeon can readily separate the abdominal contents from the abdominal wall. Having satisfied himself of the presence and the boundaries of the cave, the dissector should carefully remove the extra-peritoneal fat which lies between the bladder and the wall of the pelvis, taking care to avoid injuring any vessels which may be passing through the fat. ^Yhen he has completed this part of the dissection he will have displayed on the side wall of the pelvis the following structures :—The lateral umbilical ligament lying a short distance below the level of the pelvic brim.^ The obturator nerve below the ligament, and at a still lower level the obturator artery and vein. Crossing from the umbilical ligament to the bladder he will find the superior vesical artery. Lateral to the obturator vessels and nerve he will see the ]jarietal pelvic fascia, and at the bottom of the space he will find the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia passing medially from the parietal layer to the bladder. Just to the lateral side of the junction of the lateral border with the posterior border of the bladder he will find the lower end of the ureter, and, if he passes a finger into the vagina, he will recognise that the lower end of the ureter is crossing a recess of the vagina, at the side of the lower end of the uterus, which is called the lateral fornix of the vagina (Fig. 24S). If the lower border of the broad ligament is now carefully raised, the uterine artery will be found passing medially above the ureter to the side of the uterus (Fig. 24S). Having displayed the structures in front of the broad ligament, the dissector should turn to the posterior part of the pelvis, where he must care- fully divide the peritoneum along the back of the lower border of the 1 See p. 599.PELVIS 625 broad ligament, and then turn the membrane behind the incision medially from the side wall of the pelvis to the rectum. When this has been done and the extra-peritoneal fat has been dissected away, the ureter, the divisions and branches of the hypogastric artery, the accompanying veins, and the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic passing forwards at the sides of the rectum, wilt be exposed. Whilst this stage of the dissection is pro- ceeding care must be taken to avoid injuring the parietal or the visceral pelvic fascia. The hypogastric vessels lie inside the fascia, and their visceral branches pierce the visceral layer, whilst the parietal branches pierce the parietal layer. The main nerve trunks and the cords of the sympathetic are outside the parietal fascia ; therefore their branches do not pierce the fascia as they pass out of the pelvis. The obturator nerve, however, pierces the parietal pelvic fascia from without inwards at the posterior part of the pelvis, and runs forwards lateral to the hypogastric vessels and below the pelvic brim to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it enters the obturator canal through which it passes into the thigh. When the extra-peritoneal fat has been removed, the general positions of the structures behind the broad ligament should be noted (Figs. 248, 249). The hypogastric artery serves as a prominent landmark as it descends at the junction of the lateral with the posterior wall of the pelvis. In front of the hypogastric artery the ureter runs downwards till it reaches the level of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, then it turns forwards and medially to the lateral angle of the bladder. In this part of its course it passes beneath the lower border of the broad ligament and the uterine artery, and obliquely above and in front of the upper end of the vagina. The student should verify the important relations of the ureter to the vagina and to the uterus by passing a finger into the vagina, and noting that when the tip of his finger lies at the top of the vagina and at the side of the lower end of the uterus it is immediately below the medial part of the lower border of the broad ligament, and that the ureter passes obliquely from behind forwards and medially across it. Running forward? on the lateral wall of the pelvis, and passing to the lateral side of the ureter will be found the obliterated part of the umbilical artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. In the female the obliterated part of the umbilical artery is frequently below the level of the obturator nerve behind the broad ligament, but it rises above the nerve as it passes forwards. The uterine artery will be found descending in front of the ureter before it turns medially to cross above the duct beneath the lower border of the broad ligament. The hypogastric vein lies behind the stem of the VOL. I—40ABDOMEN 626 hypogastric artery, and frequently conceals its posterior division. Endo-Pelvic Fascia.—This should now be examined. It is a strong membranous layer which is separable into two Sacral plexus Hypogastric artery Ureter External iliac arter>* Ovarian vessels Inferior glutasal artery Internal pudendal artery Uterine tube Ovar^^ Round ligament Cocc^’geus muscle Uterine arter^’^ Middle hsemorrhoidal artery^ Vaginal artery Retro-pubic pad of fat Levator ani muscle 1 Anal canal Perineal body Fig. 248.—Dissection of a median section of a Female Pelvis showing the Pelvic Diaphragm and the structures on the side wall of the Pelvis behind the Broad Ligament. parts, a parietal portion which forms one of the strata of the walls of the pelvis, and a visceral portion, the upper fascia of the pelvic diaphragm, which forms part of the pelvic floor, and lies upon the muscular diaphragm which separates the pelvis proper from the perineum. The parietal layer passes down below the level of the visceral layer into the perineum where it is still spoken of as parietal pelvic fascia.PELVIS 627 The dissector should commence his examination of the fascia by noting that the parietal part is continuous above with the fascia on the psoas muscle. Traced downwards from the psoas it can be followed to the level of a line extending from the lower part of the back of the symphysis to the spine of the ischium, i.e. to the level at which the visceral layer springs from its inner surface. Traced backwards it passes lateral to the hypogastric vessels and then across the front of the sacrum to the opposite side, concealing the sacral plexuses and the piriformis muscles. When it is traced forwards it will be found to terminate, anteriorly, along a curved line which commences at the medial side of the ilio-pectineal eminence, on the medial surface of the superior ramus of the pubis, descends to the lower border of the symphysis pubis, and then ascends to a corre- sponding point on the opposite side. The parietal fascia is deficient, therefore, on the anterior boundary of the lower part of the cave of Retzius. Each half of this anterior border of the parietal fascia is separable into three parts: A lateral part where the fascia blends with the periosteum on the inner surface of the ascending ramus of the pubis; an intermediate part below the highest portion of the obturator foramen, where the fascia turns over the upper border of the obturator internus and runs outwards into the thigh, forming the lower wall of the obturator canal; a median part which is attached to the peri- osteum on the posterior surface of the body of the pubis. Turning next to the visceral layer the dissector will find as he traces it medially, in the posterior part of the pelvis, that the rectum sinks into its substance. In front of the rectum it is carried over the upper part of the vagina on to the uterus, and in front of the uterus it is lost on the bladder. Still more anteriorly it can be followed across the median plane to the opposite side. In this last part of its extent two thickened bands of its substance, one on each side of the median plane, extend from the back of the pubis to the anterior border of the bladder. These bands are the medial pubo-vesical ligaments or anterior true ligaments of the bladder already referred to. The dissector should note that the attachment of the visceral layer to the back of the body of the pubis lies at a higher level than the attachment of the anterior border of the parietal layer. In the space between the two lines ofABDOMEN 628 attachment on each side the anterior fibres of the levator ani arise from the back of the body of the pubis. The dissector should now turn to the perineum and examine the pelvic fascia from below. He has already seen that it forms the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa and is carried medially from the margin of the pubic arch, as the superior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm, to the medial plane, where it turns backwards along the urethra and round the anterior border of the levator ani. He has seen also that the levator ani arises from the parietal fascia of the lateral wall of the ischio-rectal fossa and passes downwards and medially to the wall of the anal canal into which many of its fibres are inserted. The levator ani must now be divided from before backwards, midway between its origin and its insertion, and the upper portion must be turned laterally towards the pelvic wall. When this has been done the lower surface of the superior fascia of the pelvic diaphragm will be exposed, and the dissector will see, after the removal of the peritoneum and extra- peritoneal fat above, and the levator ani below, that the visceral fascia alone separates the pelvic cavity above from the perineum below, and he can convince himself that the visceral layer springs from the parietal immediately above the origin of the levator ani, and that, as it runs towards the medial plane, it encloses the pelvic viscera. He will also find, if he traces the under surface of the visceral layer forwards, that it blends anteriorly, round the anterior border of the levator ani, vdth the upper fascia of the uro- genital diaphragm which is formed by the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia. He has still to demonstrate the cleavage of the visceral layer into secondary lamellce which ensheathe the pelvic viscera. To do this he must take the following steps:— Dissection.—Detach the crura of the clitoris from the margins of the pubic arch and trace the dorsal vein of the clitoris beneath the arcuate ligament. Divide the dorsal vein and turn the clitoris down. Separate the inferior fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm from the margin of the pubic arch on each side, if that has not already been done during the dissection of the perineum. Examine the sphincter urethrre membranacea: which lies above the inferior layer of the uro-genital diaphragm. Divide the sphincter urcthrx membranacere on each side and turn it towards the median plane. Pass a probe into the urethra and note that the anterior fibres of the sphincter pass in front of the urethra, and that its posterior fibres pass over the wall of the vagina. Behind the sphincter urethrte membranacete lies the629 PELVIS upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm which is now seen from the front. Pass a finger into the vagina, and note that both the urethra and the vagina pass through the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm which is reflected backwards along their borders. Divide the upper fascia of the uro-genital diaphragm on both sides, and again note that, at the sides of the urethra and the vagina, it is continuous round the anterior border of the levator ani with the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Divide the pubes on each side with the saw along a line commencing on the margin of the pubic arch, below the attachment of the arcuate ligament, and terminating above at the lateral border of the tubercle of the pubis. Pass the knife behind the pubis and separate the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia from its attachment to the bone between the saw cuts. The separated piece of bone may now be removed and should be kept for the examination of the ligaments of the symphysis (see pp. 618, 650). If necessary a further portion of the margin of the pubic arch may be removed on each side to give room for the examination of the relations of the vagina and the urethra. The dissector should now make his final examination of the pelvic fascia. Tracing the upper surface of the visceral layer medially, he will find that it spreads out on the infero-lateral surfaces and anterior border of the bladder, and that in front of the bladder it covers the front of the urethra and the vagina. The latter part presents a free border where it was detached from the back of the pubes, and beneath this border the dorsal vein of the clitoris can be traced towards the bladder, where it joins the vesical plexus. In this part of the fascia the two thickened bands which form the medial pubo-vesical ligaments will be noted. If the dissector next traces the fascia medially, followuig its lower surface, he will find that it passes behind the rectum, and he will thus demonstrate that the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia splits as it passes towards the medial plane, one layer, the vesical, passing on to the bladder and in front of the urethra and vagina, and a second layer, the rectal, which passes behind the rectum. There is, however, a third layer, the recto-vaginal, which crosses between the rectum and the vagina. To demonstrate this layer the dissector should divide the vesical layer in the medial plane in front of the bladder and turn the lateral halves towards the lateral walls of the pelvis. In this way he will expose the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina, the two being closely bound together, and when the lateral border of the vagina is reached he will find that the vesical layer of the fascia blends with a deeper layer which passes behind the vagina ; this is the recto-vaginal layer. On the anterior wall of the vagina, and more particularly along its lateral border, the dissector should note a plexus of veins, the vaginal plexus. The recto-vaginal layer of the pelvic fascia should also be displayed from below. To do this the dissector must cut transversely through the tissue of the perineal body, which lies in front of the anal orifice, until he reaches the junction of the anal passage with the rectum. When this point is attained he will find that he can quite easily separate the rectum from the vagina with his finger, and that intervening between the two is the recto-vaginal layer of fascia which he previously exposed from above. Before terminating his study of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia the student should note that the floor of the pelvic cavity of the female is formed, as in the male, by the levatores ani and the coccygei muscles, and the upper and lower fascialABDOMEN 630 layers of the uro-genital diaphragm, but it is pierced by three instead of two canals, the urethra and the anal passage, as in the male, and between them the vagina. In this way the floor of the pelvis, in the female, is rendered relatively weak and less Inferior mesenteri ' artery , Common iliac artery Ureter H>’pogastrii i artery" | External ili: , arterj*^ I Pelvic colon Uterus Ovarian vessels Ovar^'^ Uterine • tube Round ligament Uterine artery Inferior epri gastric arte Vaginal arterj’^ (unusual position) Visceral pelvic fascia Levator ani Vagina Urethra Uterine. artery ' Vagina " Ureter Bladder Labium minus Tubercle of Vagina Fig, 249.—Dissection of the Pelvis of a multiparous female, showing the relations of the Bladder to the Uterus and Vagina, the relations of the Vagina to the Urethra and Broad Ligaments, and the relations of the Ureters to the Broad Ligaments and Vagina. capable of resisting strain, whilst at the same time it is adapted to the function of child-bearing, for it is cleft by the vaginal canal into two segments, an anterior, including the anterior vaginal wall and all the parts in front of it, and a posterior, formed by the posterior vaginal wall and the parts behind it.PELVIS 631 The former can be lifted into the pelvis and the latter can be forced downwards much as the two segments of a folding door are displaced in opposite directions, and thus a passage is made for the exit of the child (Berry Hart). The dissector should also note, as a matter of clinical importance, that, whilst the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina are closely bound together and cannot be separated except by the use of the knife, the posterior wall of the vagina and the anterior wall of the rectum are only loosely united together and can easily be torn apart. Vesica Urinaria (The Bladder).—The female bladder has normally a smaller capacity, and it lies at a somewhat lower level in the pelvis than the male bladder, but its shape when empty and slightly contracted is the same as in the male, i.e. it has the form of a triangular pyramid possessing a superior surface^ two infero-lateral surfaces^ a fundus or base^ and an apex. The superior surface is covered by peritoneum. It is bounded by two lateral borders which separate it from the infero-lateral surfaces, and by a posterior border which separates it from the base. The two lateral borders converge anteriorly and meet at the apex, from which a fibrous cord, the median umbilical ligament (urachus) passes up the posterior surface of the anterior abdominal wall to the umbilicus. The urachus is the remains of the allantois of the foetus. The lateral borders meet the posterior border of the upper surface at the lateral angles of the bladder where the ureters enter the wall of the viscus. The infero-lateral surfaces and the anterior border which separates them are devoid of peritoneum. They form the posterior wall of the lower part of the cave of Retzius, and are separated from the back of the symphysis and the posterior surHces of the pubic bones by a layer of loose extra-peritoneal fat. The term retro-pubic pad is applied to that portion of the fatty tissue which intervenes between the back of the symphysis pubis, the upper surfaces of the medial pubo-vesical ligaments, and the anterior border of the bladder. To examine the relation of the fundus of the bladder to the uterus and vagina the student must cut through the peritoneum at the bottom of the recto-vesical excavation, and then with the aid of the knife separate the bladder from the front of the neck of the uterus and the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina. Whilst he is dividing the peritoneum he should notice that the 1—40 a632 ABDOMEN membrane may extend down over the fundus of the bladder for a very short distance. The False Ligaments of the Bladder.—As in the male, there are five false ligaments of the bladder, two lateral, two posterior, and one superior. They are all formed by the peritoneum. The two lateral are merely the parts of the peritoneal membrane which connect the lateral borders of the superior surface of the bladder with the side walls of the pelvis; they form the floors of the paravesical fossae. The superior or plica umbilicalis media is the fold of peritoneum which is raised up by the urachus, and the two posterior are the ill-marked folds which pass from the upper part of the base of the bladder to the front of the neck of the uterus; they form the lateral boundaries of the utero-vesical excavation. The True Ligaments of the Bladder.—These are five in number, two anterior, two lateral, one superior. The lateral and the anterior ligaments are portions of the visceral layer of pelvic fascia, the lateral pubo-vesical ligaments are merely the lateral parts of the vesical lamella, whilst the anterior or medial pubo-vesical ligaments are thickenings of the anterior part of the same lamella, one on each side of the medial plane. The lateral connect the infero-lateral surfaces of the bladder to the main layer of the visceral pelvic fascia, and indirectly to the side wall of the pelvis. The anterior bind the anterior border of the bladder to the back of the symphysis pubis. It is doubtful if the term ligamentum icmbilicale medium is properly applied, but it is sometimes given to the urachus, which connects the apex of the bladder with the anterior abdominal wall. Dissection.—To examine the interior of the bladder an incision should be made through the anterior border, and through the infero-lateral surfaces immediately below their junction with the superior surface. When this has been done the superior surface should be raised and the anterior border and infero-lateral surfaces should be depressed ; a good view of the interior will then be obtained. The mucous membrane should then be cleaned with a sponge and its general characters and the orifices of the bladder should be studied. The Mucous Membrane, the Trigone, and the Orifices of the Bladder.—Over the greater part of the inner surface of the empty bladder the mucous membrane is rugose on account of the laxity of its connection with the muscular coat, but in a triangular area on the lower part of the fundus.633 PELVIS which is known as the irigo?ie, the connection is closer and the mucous membrane is always smooth. The rugaj on the other parts of the inner surface become unfolded as the bladder distends, until the whole inner surface is smooth. The trigone is also the most sensitive area of the bladder wall. At its apex, which marks the lowest point of the base of the bladder, is situated the semilunar or Y-shaped internal orifice of the urethra, and at its lateral angles, which are about one inch from each other and the same distance from the orifice of the urethra, lie the slit-like orifices of the ureters. The student should pass probes into the ureters; he will then be able to convince himself that each ureter runs for about three-quarters of an inch in the substance of the bladder wall, and that this part of each duct can be easily palpated through the anterior wall of the vagina. The obliquity of the ureters in the substance of the bladder wall is believed to produce a valve-like action of the lower parts of the ducts, permitting the passage of urine into the bladder, but preventing its return. Relations of the Bladder.—The relations of the infero- lateral surfaces and the anterior border of the bladder are practically the same in the female as in the male (see p. 587), except that there is no prostate beneath the lower part of the anterior border, and the neck of the bladder, which is embraced by the prostate in the male, is closely bound to the anterior wall of the vagina in the female. The superior surface which is in relation in the male with coils of small intestine and pelvic colon, is overhung posteriorly by the uterus in the female, and is in relation with small intestine or a coil of the pelvic colon only in the anterior part of its extent. The fundus of the bladder, which in the male is in relation with the deferent ducts and the seminal vesicles, is closely bound in the female to the anterior surface of the neck of the uterus and to the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina (Fig. 244). Peritoneal Relations.—The peritoneal relations of the bladder are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 590), except that the upper part of the base may be covered by peritoneum in the female. The alterations in the peri- toneal relations which occur as the bladder distends are the same in both sexes (see p. 588). Changes in the form of the Bladder.—'I’he changes which634 ABDOMEN occur in the form of the bladder as it passes from the empty to the distended condition are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 588). Urethra Muliebris (Female Urethra).—The urethra is the canal by which the urine leaves the bladder. Its length is about one and a half inches, and it takes a slightly curved course from the neck of the bladder downwards and forwards to the base of the vestibule where it opens on the surface by an aperture called the orificium urethrcB. exter?iufu. The meatus usually presents the appearance of a vertical slit, and lies immediately in front of a prominent projection of the mucous membrane at the lower extremity of the anterior vaginal wall. The projection is easily felt, and when the finger is passed over the vestibular area the position of the external orifice is readily localised. On its way to the surface the urethra passes through the two layers of the uro-genital diaphragm, and in the interval between them it is surrounded by the fibres of the sphincter urethrae mem- branaceae muscle. In the whole of its length it is closely bound to the anterior wall of the vagina, and its walls are in close apposition, except when the passage is opened by the flow of urine through it. The urethra should be split open longitudinally so that its coats can be examined. They are (i) a muscular coat; (2) a submucous coat; (3) a mucous coat. The muscular coat consists of an outer layer of circular and an inner layer of longitudinal fibres. The circular fibres are strongly developed in the region of the neck of the bladder where they form a distinct sphincter. The submucous coat connects the mucous coat loosely with the muscular coat. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds. It contains a number of gland follicles and lacunae and, in addition, there are present in its ventral wall two longitudinal tubules, the para-iirethral ducts, which are also known as Skene’s tubules. They open either into the canal close to the orifice or directly into the vestibule close to the orifice. The Ureters.—The pelvic portions of the ureters in the female are slightly longer than in the male, owing to the greater width of the pelvis and to the greater depth of the bladder. Their relations to the hypogastric arteries and the structures on the side-wall of the pelvis are practically similar to those of the male ureters (p. 592), but the relations of the635 PELVIS lower part of each duct, which runs medially from the side-wall ^ of the pelvis to the fundus of the bladder, are very different i in the two sexes, and in the female they are of great practical ; importance in association with operations on the lower part p, of the uterus and the upper part of the vagina. This portion I* of the ureter in the female passes obliquely beneath the lower ! border of the broad ligament and obliquely across the side r Fig. 250.—Diagram of the Vulva, Vagina, and the Uterus, with its Appendages. (Symington.) and front of the upper end of the vagina (Fig. 249), and it enters the lateral angle of the bladder about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side. Beneath the broad ligament, and at the lateral border of the upper end of the vagina, the uterine artery crosses above it, and, just before it enters the bladder it lies immediately in front of the upper part of the anterior vaginal wall (Fig. 249). When the bladder is dis- tended and the vagina is narrow the lateral angle of the externum B. Body of the uterus. C. Cervical canal. 'V. Vagina. H. Hymen. U. Urethral opening. V. Vestibule. N. Nympha. L.M. Labium majus. P". Epo-ophoron. Fundus of the uterus 3 of the uterine tube Uterine tube Ampulla of uterine tube Fimbriated end of uterine tube636 ABDOMEN bladder may extend beyond the lateral border of the vagina, and in such cases the relation of the ureter to the vagina is much less intimate. Uterus. — The uterus is the organ in which the im- pregnated ovum is retained until the fetus is fully developed. It lies in the middle part of the pelvis, resting upon the posterior part of the upper surface of the bladder, and lying beneath coils of small intestine. It is of modified piriform shape, being flattened from before backwards. It measures about three inches in length (75 mm.), and its long axis lies in the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and almost at right angles with the long axis of the vagina (Fig. 244). Its breadth^ at the Lig. of ovary Mesometriuin Anterior Body of Fundus wall of uterus . 1 cavity Ampulla of uterine tul>e Appendices vesiculosi Morgagni ^ Meso- Uterine tube vagina Epoophoron . Lat. border of broad lig/ Corpus luteum Ovary Lig. of ovary / Lower border of broad lig. Cervix- S us pen. ] of ovar Infundibu. Meso-salpinx ^lesovarium Os uteri externum. Fig. 251.—The Uterus, the Uterine Tubes, the Ovaries, the Broad Ligaments, and the upper part of the Vagina seen from behind. The posterior wall of the uterine cavity has been removed, and the left Uterine Tube and the upper part of the Vagina have been opened. broadest part, is about two inches, and its greatest thickness one inch. Its broad, upper end is directed upwards and forwards, and is continuous at each side with an oviduct or uterine tube. Its narrower, lower end is directed down- wards and backwards, and passes through the upper part of the vaginal wall into the cavity of the vagina. It is customary to describe the uterus as consisting of three parts, viz. a fundus, a body, and a cervix. The fundus (fundus uteri) is that portion of the rounded upper end which lies above a line drawn transversely across the organ between the points where the uterine tubes enter. It is completely covered by peritoneum. Corpus Uteri (Body of the Uterus) diminishes m breadth as it proceeds downwards to the neck. In front and 1,PELVIS 637 behind it is convex, the convexity of the posterior surface, however, being much more marked, especially in its upper part, than that of the anterior surface. Each lateral border is connected to the corresponding broad ligament, and im- mediately below the entrance of the uterine tube it is joined, in front, by the round liga7ne?it, and behind, by the ligamefit of the ovary. Inferiorly, the body of the uterus is marked off from the cervix by a slight constriction, which, although very apparent in the infant, becomes less distinct as puberty approaches, and usually disappears altogether after parturition. This constriction is called the isthmus. Cervix Uteri (Neck or Cervix).—The cervix is about an inch in length (25 mm.); it is narrower than the body and more cylindrical in form. It projects into the upper end of the vagina, the walls of which are attached around it. To obtain a satisfactory view of the relation of the uterus to the vagina, both organs should now be split sagittally, care being taken to avoid injuring the rectum. When this has been done the posterior wall of the vagina will be found to ascend to a higher level on the cervix than the shorter anterior wall (Figs. 244, 247). On the lower extremity of the cervix, which rests against the posterior vaginal wall, there is an orifice, the orificiuni externum titeri (O.T. os uteri externu?n). This opening, in nulliparae, is always a small transverse slit with rounded anterior and posterior lips, but in women who have borne children it is usually larger, and its margins are more irregular in outline. The anterior lip is the shorter, and it is placed at a lower level in the vagina. This difference in the level and in the length of the two lips is due to the fact that the uterus passes obliquely through the vaginal wall. The part of the cervix which projects into the vagina is the portio vaginalis; the part above is termed the portio supravaginalis. Cavum Uteri.—The cavity of the uterus is separable into two parts, the cavity of the body and the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the body is a mere cleft, triangular in outline, which lies between the anterior and posterior walls. The base of the triangle is above, and at each of its lateral angles a uterine tube opens into the cavity. The apex is below, where the cavity of the body joins the cavity of the cervix at a constricted aperture of communication called the 07ificium i7iternu77i uteri (O.T. os uteri i7iter7ium).638 ABDOMEN The cervical portion of the cavity is spindle-shaped and slightly compressed from before backwards. It extends from the internal orifice, where it is continuous with the cavity of the body, to the external orifice, where it opens into the vagina. Superior haemorrhoidal an Hypogastric artery Ureter Ovarian Pelvic colon Ureter Umbilica artery Middle h rhoidal ai Utenne a Ovary Columnae rugaruin - * 1 Fig. 252.—Further Dissection of the Pelvis shown in Fig. 249. The Uterus ' I has been puslied backwards, and the Bladder, the lower parts of the • J Ureters, and the anterior wall of the Vagina have been removed. Broad ligament Cervix uteri Lateral fornix Levator ani Uterine t Round Ii| Uterine a ■ Ureter : Inferior -' t cpigastrioti The Relations of the Uterus.—The posterior surface of the uterus is completely covered by peritoneum, and it is separated from the rectum by the recto-vaginal excavation in which lie coils of tlie small intestine and part of the pelvic colon. The anterior surface of the body, which rests on the bladder, is also covered by peritoneum, but the anterior surface of the639 PELVIS cervix is devoid of peritoneum, and is in direct relation with the fundus of the bladder. The lateral borders of the uterus are connected with the broad ligaments, and between the layers of the ligaments they are associated with the uterine artery, and the uterine plexus of veins, which is embedded in a mass of loose fatty tissue called the parmnetrium. The parametric tissue is most abundant in the region of the upper part of the vagina and at the side of the neck of the uterus. Ligamentum Teres Uteri (Round Ligament).—The round ligaments of the uterus are two cord-like bands, one on each side, composed of involuntary muscle fibres and connective tissue. They are attached to the body of the uterus immediately below and in front of the entrance of the uterine tubes. Each ligament runs forwards and laterally from the uterus, between the layers of the broad ligament, to the side wall of the pelvis. There it lies for a short distance on the external iliac vessels, and then turns round the inferior epigastric artery, and passes through the abdominal inguinal ring into the inguinal canal, where it has already been examined. It represents the lower part of the gubernaculum of the ovary, the upper part being represented by the ligament of the ovary. Position of the Uterus. — In women who have borne no children (nulliparae), and in whom the bladder and the rectum are both empty, the uterus is normally anteflexed and anteverted. The statement that the uterus is anteflexed, means that it is bent forwards on itself at the isthmus, so that the body and the cervix meet at an angle which is open in front. This forward flexion depends upon two circumstances, viz. (i) upon the greater pliability of the body as compared with the firmer consistence and greater resistance of the cervix; and (2) upon the fact that the cervix is more or less held in position by its attachments to the anterior vaginal wall and the fundus of the bladder in front, and to the posterior vaginal wall behind. The term anteversion means that the whole uterus—body and cervix—is inclined forwards and forms an angle of greater or less magnitude with the vertical axis of the trunk. In this position of the uterus, coils of small intestine and a loop of the pelvic colon rest upon its posterior surface, and its anterior surface is supported by the bladder. It is only on rare occasions that a coil of small640 ABDOMEN intestine is found between the uterus and the bladder in the utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum. In niultiparae (women who have borne children) the anteflexion is not so marked as in nulliparae. The uterus possesses a great degree of mobility, however, and its position is constantly liable to change, but under no circumstances does it occupy an exactly median position. As a rule its anterior surface is directed forwards and to the External iliac vessels Uterine tube (Fallopian) . Ligament of ovary Round ligament of uterus Fig. 253.—Left Side-wall of Female Pelvis to show position of the Ovary. The ovary is much scarred owing to the shedding of ova. right. The ordinary anteflexed and anteverted position may be altered or exaggerated by alterations of the general intra- abdominal pressure, and by distension of the bladder and the ^ I rectum. It may be altered also by pathological contractions J of the peritoneal ligaments connected with the uterus, or of ' the connective tissue between the folds of the ligaments. ^ Eveiy contraction of the diaphragm, every movement of the ’ body, is accompanied or followed by some slight change in the position of the uterus. When the bladder fills the uterus is raised, the anteflexion and anteversion become less marked, and, in cases of over-distension of the bladder, the uterus may assume an erect position, or may be even forced back-641 PELVIS wards until it lies in the same line as the vagina. When the uterus attains the last-mentioned position it is said to be retroverted. As it becomes retroverted the coils of intestine are displaced from the recto-vaginal excavation, and the uterus is forced into intimate relation with the rectum. When the rectum becomes distended the uterus is pushed forwards and usually to the right side. Dissection.—When the examination of the relations of the uterus is con- cluded, the dissector should cut through the rectum in the median plane. Then, with the saw, he should divide the sacrum and coccyx also in the median plane, and when this has been done he should cut through all the remaining tissues in the same plane and separate the two halves of the pelvis. All the remaining stages of the dissection and examination can be carried out on each half separately. Vagina.—The vagina is the passage which leads from the uterus to the vulva. In length it is about three inches, and it is widest at its upper end. Its distensibility is very great, to allow the passage of the child during parturition. The direction of the canal, when the bladder and rectum are empty, is from above downwards and forwards, parallel with the plane of the pelvic brim, so that it forms with the uterus an angle which is open towards the symphysis. Its anterior and posterior walls are closely applied, and in section, there- fore, its cavity appears either as a transverse or as a longi- tudinal slit according to the 'direction in which it is divided (Figs. 244 and 245). .\t its upper end the vagina is attached round the neck of the uterus, upon which it ascends farther posteriorly than anteriorly, so that the uterus appears to pierce the anterior wall of the vagina. The shallow sulcus at the upper end of the vagina, round the neck of the uterus, is known as the fornix of the vagina. It is formed by the reflection of the mucous membrane of the vagina on to the neck of the uterus, and is separated into anterior, posterior, and lateral parts. 'I’he dissector should examine carefully the relations of the fornices. The anterior fornix is in relation with the fundus of the bladder. The posterior fornix is in relation with the recto-vaginal excavation of peritoneum, and therefore an injury of the vagina in this region may open into the lower part of the peritoneal cavity. Each lateral fornix lies below the lower medial angle of the broad ligament, and is in close relation with the ureter, the uterine artery, and the mass of VOL. I—11 ~ABDOMEN 642 fatty, vascular tissue previously mentioned as the parametrium. The opening of the lower end of the vagina into the urino- genital cleft is partly closed, in the virgin, by the hymen. This is formed by two antero-posteriorly placed crescentic folds which are united in front and behind. After the hymen has been ruptured, its torn fragments, called cariin- culcB hymenales, persist round the opening. Fig. 254.—The lower part of the Cervi.x Uteri, the anterior wall of the Vagina, and the Vestibule. The Vagina has been opened from behind. The Relations of the Vagina.—The posterior wall of the vagina is in relation above with the recto-vaginal excavation of peritoneum. Below this it is in apposition with the anterior wall of the rectum (Fig. 244). The anterior wall of the vagina is related to the lower part of the base of the bladder and to the urethra. The lower end of the vagina is embraced between the vestibular bulbs, and is clasped by the sphincter vaginee, and each lateral border is supported by the corre- sponding levator ani muscle. The anterior borders of the levatores ani muscles, as they pass backwards from the body Uteri e.xternum Cervi.\ uteriPELVIS 643 of the pubes to the central point of the perineum, closely embrace the vagina, and act as a superior or second sphincter of the canal (Figs. 249, 252). Tubse Uterinse (O.T. Fallopian Tubes).—There are two uterine or Fallopian tubes, one on each side, and their function is to convey ova from the ovaries to the uterus. Each tube is about four inches long, and it is contained, in the greater part of its length, in the medial four-fifths of the upper border of the broad ligament. Its medial end pierces the uterus at the junction of the body and fundus. At a short distance from its lateral end it pierces the surface of the broad ligament, curls over the upper pole of the ovary, and opens into the peritoneal cavity by a constricted orifice, the ostium abdomittale, which is surrounded by a number of fringe- like processes called the fimbria. By one of these fimbriae, fimbria ovarica, it is attached to the tubal or upper pole of the ovary. Its calibre is by no means uniform. As it is traced from the uterus it is at first very narrow, scarcely admitting a bristle. This portion is the isthmis tuba uterina. More laterally it dilates considerably, and becomes convoluted and less closely attached to the peritoneum of the broad ligament. This part is called the a7npulla tuba uterina, and the fimbria which are merely the segments of the cleft wall of a funnel- like extremity constitute collectively the infiimdibulum tuba uterina. The ovarian fimbria is longer than the others, and is attached along its whole length to the broad ligament. On its surface is a gutter-like groove leading from the constricted mouth of the tube to the ovary. Traced from the uterus the tube runs first laterally, then, at the lateral wall of the pelvis, it turns upwards, and finally, having gained the upper pole of the ovary, it bends downwards and covers the posterior free border and the greater part of the medial surface of the ovary (Fig. 253). Ovarium (The Ovary).—The ovaries are two small solid bodies, each of which is attached to the posterior surface of the corresponding broad ligament, by a secondary fold of the posterior layer of the ligament called the mesovarium. Each ovary has the form of a slightly compressed ovoid, and is about the size of a pigeon’s egg. It presents two flattened surfaces, two extremities or poles, and two borders. Its natural or typical position can be studied only in women who have borne no children, for the ovaries become644 ABDOMEN displaced during pregnancy, and it is doubtful if they ever regain their original positions. In the nulliparous female each ovary occupies a peritoneal fossa on the back part of the side-wall of the pelvis, below the external iliac vessels and in front of the hypogastric vessels and the ureter. This recess is termed the fossa ovarica. The long axis of the ovary is vertical. From its upper pole the suspensory ligament of the ovary passes to the side-wall of the pelvis, and to the same extremity the mouth of the uterine tube is attached by one of its fimbrise ; from the latter connection the upper pole is frequently called the tubal extremity {extremitas tubaria) of the ovary. The lower, or ute?'ifie extremity (extre7nitas uterijia), is connected with the lateral border of the uterus, immediately below and posterior to the* entrance of the uterine tube, by the round cord-like ligament of the ovary, which lies in the medial part of the mesovarium, and is a remnant of the gubernaculum of the ovary. The anterior border is thinner and straighter than the posterior border. It is commonly called the attached border or hilus because it is connected to the back of the broad ligament by the mesovarium, and through it the vessels and nerves pass into and out of the ovary. The poste7'ior bot'der of the ovary is free, and looks backwards towards the ureter. In the natural position of the organs the uterine tube encircles the greater part of the circumference of the ovary. On each surface of the ovary, close to the anterior border, a white line marks the transition of the flat endothelial cells of the peritoneum into the cubical epithelium of the surface of the ovary. Before puberty the surface of the ovary is smooth ; after that period it becomes scarred and puckered by the cicatrices which mark the positions of the ruptured Graafian or vesicular ovarian follicles from which ova have escaped. Epoophoron (O.T. Parovarium).—This structure is of interest because it represents the coni vasculosi and part of the epididymis of the testis of the male. It will be found by stretching the broad ligament, holding it to the light, and examining the lateral part between the ovary and the uterine tube. It lies between the layers of the broad ligament, and consists of a horizontal tubule and a series of vertical tubules. 'I'he vertical tubules radiate from the region of the hilus of the ovary to the horizontal tubule, in which they terminate. The horizontal tubule lies about midway between the ovary and the uterine tube, and runs parallel with the latter.PELVIS ^M5 Traced towards the uterus it is found to end blindly. Laterally it may end in a similar manner, or it may pierce the posterior layer of the broad ligament and end in a dilated vesicle of piriform shape called the vesicular appendix or Hydatid of AIorgag7ii. This maybe attached to one of the fimbrite of the uterine tube. The Eectum.—A detailed account of the rectum in the male is given on p. 582 ; the student should read that account and then note the points of difference in the female. In the upper part of its extent the rectum of the female is separated from the uterus and vagina by the recto-vaginal excavation of peritoneum and the coils of intestine which it .ppvmlicca ||^iculo^i Morgag^ni Upoophoron Lat. border of broad Corpus luteum Ovary Lig. of ovary Lower border of broad lig. Ccr^•ix < )s uteri externum Ampulla of uterine tube Suspensory f of ovary Infundibulum Meso-salpinx Mesovariuni Uterine tube Meso* varium Anterior Body of Fundus wall of uterus Fig. 25^. The Uterus, with the Broad Ligament stretcliing out from either side of it. (From Gogenbaur.) contains. Below the bottom of the pouch the rectum is in apposition with the posterior wall of the vagina, the layer of recto-vaginal fascia alone intervening. The connection be- tween the rectal and vaginal walls is very loose above, but is closer below. This arrangement has an important bearing upon the manner in which prolapse of the uterus occurs. The Anal Canal.—The anal canal bends downwards and backwards from the rectum, commencing about one inch and a half in front of the tip of the coccyx and terminating at the anal orifice. An angular area is thus left between the anterior wall of the canal and the back of the genito-urinary cleft. This area is occupied by a pyramidal mass of firm fibro-muscular tissue called the permeal body.ABDOMEN 646 The Pelvic Blood-vessels. The manner in which the pelvic blood-vessels should be dissected has been described on p. 597. In the female the dissector will find three arteries which were either not studied at all, or not under the same name in the dissection of the male pelvis, viz.— o' vtei ine, \branches of the hypogastric. 2. 1 he vaginal, J 1 fa 3. The ovarian, from the abdominal aorta. Arteria Uterina.—The uterine artery springs either from the anterior division of the hypogastric or from the umbilical artery. It runs downwards in front of the vertical part of the pelvic portion of the ureter, and then medially along the lower border of the broad ligament and above the lower part of the ureter (Figs. 249, 252). Having crossed the ureter it passes above the lateral fornix of the vagina and turns upwards along the side of the uterus. It ends by anastomosing with branches of the ovarian artery beneath the isthmus of the uterine tube. It gives branches to the uterus, the vagina, and the isthmus of the uterine tube, and frequently it supplies twigs to the ovary. Arteria Vaginalis.—The vaginal artery springs from the anterior division of the hypogastric artery. It probably represents the inferior vesical artery of the male, and whilst it is distributed mainly to the vagina it gives twigs also to the base of the bladder and to the rectum. Arteria Ovarica.—The ovarian artery corresponds to the internal spermatic artery of the male, and the abdominal part of its course is similar to that of the latter artery. When it arrives at the pelvis it crosses the upper part of the ex- ternal iliac vessels, and insinuates itself between the two layers of the broad ligament, where they form the suspen- sory ligament of the ovary. It is highly tortuous, and is enclosed in the terminal part of its extent in the coils of the pivnpinifonn plexus formed by the veins which issue from the hilus of the ovary. Its terminal branches are mainly distributed to the ovary, which they enter at the hilus, but some pass on to anastomose with branches of the uterine artery. It supplies twigs to the uterine tube also. The remaining arteries of the female pelvis correspond very closely to those of the male, of which descriptions will be found on pp. 598-601.PELVIS 647 The Veins of the Pelvis.—But little requires to be said beyond what was stated regarding the veins of the male pelvis on p. 602. The pudendal plexus, into which the dorsal vein of the clitoris opens, is smaller than in the male, but is connected in a similar manner with the vesical plexus. A bulky uterine venous plexus is formed on each side of the uterus between the two layers of the broad ligament. This enters into the formation of the parametrium, and from its lower part the blood is drained away by one or more uterine veins which end in the hypogastric vein. A vaginal venous plexus is also formed around the vagina. It is most dense along each lateral border, in the angle between the vesical and the recto-vaginal layers of the pelvic fascia. One or more vaginal veins proceed from its upper end on each side j they end in the hypogastric veins. A pampinifor7n plexus of veins is formed by the veins which issue from the hilus of the ovary. From this plexus, which lies between the layers of the broad ligament, two ovarian veins issue. They accompany the ovarian artery, and ultimately fuse into a single vein which ends in a manner similar to the corresponding internal spermatic vein of the male (P- 542). The Pelvic Lymph Vessels.—The lymph vessels of the bladder and rectum are the same in the female as in the male (see p. 603), but in the female the lymph vessels of the vagina, uterus, uterine tubes, and ovaries have also to be considered. Lymph vessels from the lower part of the vagina pass to the superficial inguinal and sacral lymph glands. From the middle and upper parts of the vagina and from the cervix uteri they pass to the hypogastric and external iliac and the sacral lymph glands. From the body of the uterus they pass to the external iliac and hypogastric lymph glands and along the round ligament to the superficial inguinal lymph glands. The lymph vessels from the upper part of the uterus and the ovary terminate in the lymph glands round the aorta. The Visceral Nerves ok the Pelvis. Very little requires to be added to what has already been said about the visceral nerve plexuses (p. 608). There is no prostatic plexus-, but a vaginal plexus, an ovarian plexus, and a648 ABDOMEN uterine plexus are present in addition to those mentioned in the description of the male pelvis. The tUerine plexus proceeds from the pelvic plexus. It ascends between the layers of the broad ligament, along the uterine artery, and is distributed to both aspects of the uterus. The vaginal plexus is also an offset from the pelvic plexus, and the nerves which compose it are derived mainly from the visceral branches which enter the pelvic plexus from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The ovarian plexus is derived from the aortic and renal plexuses. It accompanies the artery of the same name, and is distributed to the ovary. Dissection.—When the blood-vessels and the visceral nerve plexuses have been examined the pelvic viscera should be removed. The vessels and nerves passing to them must be cut ; the visceral layer of pelvic fascia on the upper surface of the levator ani must be divided, from before backwards, and stripped medially from the upper surface of the muscle. Finally, the rectum must be separated from the upper end of the anal canal, and then the viscera can be removed. When this has been done the structure of the walls of the viscera should be studied. Structure of the Uterus.—The uterus possesses three well-marked coats—a serous or peritoneal, a muscular and a mucous. The serous covering has already been fully studied (p. 623). The muscular part of the wall constitutes its chief bulk. It is composed of involuntary muscular tissue with a considerable admixture of areolar tissue. It is not equally thick throughout and is relatively thin towards the angles or points where the uterine tubes open into the uterus. The mucous membrane which lines the cavity is not of uniform appearance. In the body of the uterus it is smooth and closely bound to the adjacent muscle. In the cervix it presents a striking arrangement, which from its appearance has been termed the arbor vita. This consists of a series of prominent folds or rugre, plicce palmata, arranged in a definite manner. There is a median fold both on the anterior and on the posterior wall of the canal, and secondary folds branch off from each of these and pass obliquely upwards and laterally. The arbor vitaj is better marked on the anterior than on the posterior wall. Between the plicte palmatce the dissector may discover some minute vesicles filled with yellowish fluid; these are the ovula Nahothi. They result from the obstruction of the mouths and thePELVIS 649 distension of the cavities of certain tubular glands which lie in the mucous membrane. The Coats of the Vagina. — The vagina possesses an e.\ternal muscular coat, an internal mucous coat, and an intermediate layer of erectile tissue. The muscular coat is formed of unstriped muscle fibres arranged in two layers, an external longitudinal layer and an internal circular layer, of which the former is much the stronger. The mucous membrane presents two well-marked median longitudinal folds, one on the anterior, and one on the posterior wall. These are termed the columnce rugarum, and from each side they send off numerous transverse ridges, which are arranged so that those of the anterior wall fit in between those on the posterior wall. The folds are best marked near the vaginal orifice, and are absent at the upper part of the canal. The intermediate layer of erectile tissue is thin. Structure of the Uterine Tubes.-—Each uterine tube has an external serous, an intermediate muscular, and an internal mucous lining coat. The serous coat is the peritoneal covering formed by the layers of the broad ligament. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal circular layer of unstriped muscle fibres. The tube is so narrow in the region of the isthmus that the mucous membrane in that region can only be satisfactorily examined in sections and with the aid of the microscope, but the ampulla is easily opened, and when this has been done the dissector will recognise that the mucous membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds. To obtain a proper idea of the fimbrite the tube should be immersed in water, when they will float out and separate from each other. The Coats of the Rectum and Anal Canal.—The coats of these portions of the intestinal canal are identical in both sexes. The student should refer, therefore, to p. 609, where the walls of the male rectum and anal canal are described. Dissection.—When the dissector has completed his study of the structure of the pelvic viscera he should return to the investigation of the pelvic spinal nerve plexuses, and the sympathetic cord, and the coccygeal body (see p. 608). After he has satisfied himself regarding the fonnation and distribution of the plexuses, and the position and connections of the sympathetic cord, he should study the pelvic diaphragm. The sacro-pudendal and the coccygeal nerve plexuses are the same in both sexes, and the description of their constitu- tion and relations will be found on p. 605.650 ABDOMEN The pelvic portions of the sympathetic cords are described on p. 609. The position and constitution of the coccygeal body are given on p. 609. The Pelvic Diaphragm. This is described on pp. 556, 604. The dissector should note that the levator ani muscle passes downwards and back- wards and that it gives support to the lateral border of the vagina; he should note also that the anterior borders of the two levatores ani muscles embrace the lower part of the vagina very closely, and exert a sphincter action upon it. Dissection.—After he has studied the pelvic diaphragm the dissector should remove the levator ani to display the obturator internus, and examine the attachment and arrangement of that muscle (see p. 612). He should then study the piriformis (see p. 612), and should complete his dissection of the pelvis by an examination of the pelvic articulations. The Pelvic Articulations.—These are described at p. 612. In the later months of pregnancy the ligamentous structures of the various pelvic joints become softened and thickened by the infiltration of fluid. The pelvic bones are thus separated from each other to some extent, and the calibre of the pelvic canal is increased in preparation for the passage of the child.INDEX. Abdomen, 40, 340 Abdominal cavity, 426 boundaries, 427 contents, 431 inguinal ring, abdominal, 402, 404, 410, 420, 422, 424, 639 subcutaneous, 377, 3S6, 394, 420 peritoneum, 457 planes, 429 relations between thoracic and abdominal organs, 443, 465, 471 subdivisions, 429 tunic, 380 wall, 376 adaptation to viscera, 431 arteries, 401, 403 cutaneous nerves, 381 vessels, 383 fascia, 378, 380, 400 muscles, 385, 390, 395 nerves, 394 posterior, 440-547 surface anatomy, 376, 430 surgical anatomy, 381 ■'^^!?g''t‘gated lymph nodules, 487 Alcock’s canal, 348, 350, 361 Allantois, 377, 631 Ampulla of rectum, 584 of uterine tube, 643 of vas deferens, 597 of Vater, 503, 505 Anal canal, 341, 582, 584, 645 structure of, 610 female, 645 Anastomosis. .SV« Arterial Anasto- mosis Ankle-joint, 322 Ano-coccygeal body, 349, 583, 586 651 Aorta, abdominal, 460, 476, 539, 612 branches of, 540 Aortic opening of diaphragm, 538 plexus, 476, 484, 515, 540, 550 Aponeurosis, brachial, 70, 77 of external oblique, 386 of internal oblique, 391 palmar, 115 plantar, 291, 330 of transversalis, 395 Appendices epiploicse, 438 Arbor vitse uterina, 648 Arch, anterior carpal, 106 coraco-acromial, 57, 58 palmar, deep, 130 superficial volar, 116 branches of, 118 plantar, 305 superficial femoral, 1S2 deep, 182 Arches of foot, 329, 334 Arcus lumbo-costalis lateralis, 547 medialis, 548, 550 tendineus, 213, 250 Areola mamma;, 9 Arm, 62 back of, 83 cubital fossa, 81 cutaneous nerves, 65 fascia, 70 front of, 62 osteo-fascial compartments, 71 superficial veins, 69 surface anatomy, 62 Arterial Anastomosis of ankle, 28S of back of thigh, 250 crucial, of thigh, 232 of elbow, 140ini)p:x 652 Arterial Anastomosis — of knee, 307 of scapula, 61, 64 Artery or Arteries, thoraco- acromial, 25 of appendix, 489, 491 articular, of knee, 198-244, 276, 282, 307 of hip, 214 axillary, 22 brachial, 73 branch of ulnar, iiS of breast, 9, 10 of bulb of penis, 358, 362, 375 csecal, 481 carpal, radial, 99 ulnar, 106 circumjlex, lateral, of the thigh, 188, 199, 207 anterior of the humerus, 26, 54 iliac, deep, 393, 401, 405, 545- 601 superficial, 171, 384 medial of thigh, 188, 207, 208, 227, 231 posterior of the humerus, 26, 88 of the scapukie, 26, 52, 60 clavicular, 15, 25 coccygeal, 227 coeliac, 460, 461 colic, left, 478, 482, 534 middle, 476, 478, 481 right, 476, 481 comitans nervi ischiadici, 227 common iliac, 476, 540, 543, 544, 550, 602 common volar digital, 118 communicating of anterior tibial, no, 284 ^ of corpus cavernosum, 362, 376, 569 cremasteric, 393, 404 cystic, 463 deep circumflex iliac. See Cir- cumflex deep volar, 118, 130 descending branch of the transverse cervical, 61 digital, of foot, 304 dorsal metatarsal, 270 dorsalis clitoridis, 375, 376 indicis, 143 pedis, 267, 268 penis, 358, 362, 417, 569 pollicis, 144 of ductus deferens, 410, 599, 600 Artery or Arteries— epimslric inferior, 393, 402, 403, 404, 422, 425, 545, 597, 624, 639 superficial, 171, 384 superior, 406, 539 femoral, 188, 190, 195, 196 209, 545, femoris, 188, 205 fibular, superior, 282 gastric, left, 461 right, 445 > 45° small, 460, 464 I gastro-duodenal, 448, 460, 463, ! 498,504 j gastro-epiploic, 448, 450, 460, 464 genicular, 244 genu superior, 244 inferior, 244 middle, 144 genu suprema, 176, 194, 195, 307 glutmal, superior, 226, 227, 233, 562, 601, 606 hicmorrhoidal, 347, 348., 349, 362, 478, 482, 593, 602 middle, 600, 602 superior, 600 hepatic, 445, 447, 451, 462, 463, 504, 523 ileal, 4S7 ileo-ctecal, 447 ileocolic, 476, 480, 534 iliac, common, 476, 540, 543, 544, j 550, 602 j condition in foetus, 598 external, 541, 545, 597, 639-644 hypogastric, 227, 544, 557, 561, 598, 624, 625, 634, 644 ilio-lumbar, 562, 601 infraspinous, 66 interosseous, of foot, 254 common, 106 dorsal, 138 intercostal, 404 recurrent, 140 volar, 109, 142 intestinal, 4S0 left gastric, 461 lumbar, 404, 539, 542, 550, 555> 601 malleolar, 268 mammary, lateral, ii, 25 internal, 9 medial calcaneal, 284, 295 median, 110 genicular artery, 309 fINDEX 653 Artery or Arteries— mesenUrit', inferior, 476, 47S, 540, 602 superior, 463, 476, 47S, 499, 501, 534, 540, 543 metatarsal, 304 arcuate, 270 musculo-phrenic, 406, 539 untricia humeri, 75 femoris, 20S ilio, 601 tibiae, 2S3 obturator, 214, 425, 562, 581, 593. 600 abnormal, 186, 600 cesophageal, 462 ovarian, 534, 542, 543, 623, 646 pancreatic, 464 pancreatica magna, 464 pancreatico-duodenal, superior, 460, 463, 478, 480, 543 inferior, 463, 478, 480, 499, 543 pectoral, 25 perforating, of foot, 303 of hand, 130, 143 of internal mammary, 6, 9 of peroneal, 271 of profunda femoris, 206, 207, 208, 250 perineal, 350, 362, 374 transverse, 350 peroneal, 271, 284, 287 phrenic, inferior, 460, 541 543 plantar, lateral, 295, 303 medial, 294 popliteal, 242, 281 princeps pollicis, 131 profunda brachii, 75, 82, 85, 87 proper volar digital, 118 pubic, of inferior epigastric, 425 of obturator, 600 pudendal, deep external, 191 internal, 229, 348, 358, 360, 375. 600 superficial external, 170, 383 to quadratus femoris, 227 radial, 98, 142 volar carpal, 99 volar of the index, 131 dorsal carpal, 143 dorsal arteries of the thumb, 143 dorsal of the index, 143 dorsal metacarpal, 143 radial recurrent, 99 Artery or Arteries— ramus carpeus volaris, 99 recurrent, of deep palmar arch, 130 interosseous, 140 posterior tibial, 282, 309 radial, 99 tibial, anterior, 268, 308 ulnar, 182 renal, 541, 543 . right gastric, 445, 450 sacral, lateral, 562, 598, 602 middle, 540, 601, 602, 609 scrotal, posterior, 350 sigmoid, 483, 534 spermatic, 410, 476, 478, 499, 534. 539. 542, 543 external, 410 splenic, 448, 451, 463, 502 subscapular, 26, 61 superficial external pudendal, 383 circumflex iliac, 383 epigastric, 384 volar, 99 suprarenal, superior, 326, 541 mferior, 542 middle, 541 supraspinous, 60 sural, 243 tarsal, lateral, 270, 303 thoracic supreme, 25 acromial, 25 alar, 25, 34, 251 last, 555 lateral, 25 tibial, anterior, 263, 267, 273, 281 posterior, 281, 282 transverse scapular, 45, 60, 61 transverse cervical, 47, 61 inferior glutreal, 221, 226, 347, 600, 606 ulnar, 105, 116 branches of— carpal, 106 common interosseous, 106 dorsal recurrent, 106 volar interosseous, 109 volar recurrent, 105 umbilical, 421, 561, 562, 5S7, 593. 597. 599. 625 uterine, 623, 624, 625, 635, 646, 647 vaginal, 646 of vermiform process, 481, 491 vesical, 5C2, 593, 597, 599 Articulations. .SV<r Joints654 INDEX Axilla, 4, 13 boundaries, 13 contents, 14 fascia, 10 folds, 4 •lymphatic glands, 17, 19 nerves, 28 structures passing from neck, 30 surface anatomy, 4 surgical anatomy, 4 vessels, 16, 19, 22, 26 Axillary sheath, 16, 22 Back, 37 cutaneous vessels and nerves, 38 fascia, 38 intermuscular spaces, 44 muscles to upper limb, 45, 46 structures beneath trapezius, 44 surface anatomy, 35 Band, ilio-tibial. See Tract pudendal of sacral plexus, 606 sciatic of sacral plexus, 606 Bartholin’s gland, 363 Bell’s muscles, 573 Bile-Ducts, 445, 447, 498, 501, 504 Bladder, 556, 570, 586 apex, 561 coats, 571, 632 distended, 573, 58S, 634, 635 empty, 573, 5S6, 634 false ligaments, 561 female, 631 in new-born, 592 orifices, 570, 571, 588, 611, 632 peritoneal relations, 590, 633 relations of female, 633 sphincter of, 611 structure of walls, 611 triangle at base, 573, 597 trigone, 571, 611, 632 uvula, 573 Brachial aponeurosis, 70 plexus, 28 Breast. See Mammary Gland Brunner’s glands, 511 Bulb of urethra, 357, 416 of vestibule, 371 Bulbo-urethral glands (Cowper’s), 351. 359. 360, 574. 5/5> Bursa, intertubcrcular, 78 over ischial tuberosity, 224 patellar, 179 subacromial, 52 suliscapular, 91 under gastrocnemius, 280 Bursa— glutreus maximus, 224 minimus, 234 ilio-psoas, 215 ligamentum patellte, 180 sartorius, 193 semimembranosus, 193, 218 Buttock. See Gluteal region Caecum, 431, 438, 439, 488 Calices of kidney, 532 Canal of Alcock, 348, 350, 361 adductoriiis, 193 anal, 341, 582, 584 female, 645 femoral, 185, 424, 425 inguinal, 402 obturator, 564, 600, 627 portal, 522 pyloric, 468, 509 of Wirsung, 503 Capsule of Glisson, 522, 524 Caput epididymidis, 413 Cardiac orifice, 434 Carpal arch, anterior, 106 Cartilages, semilunar. See Menisci Carunculae myrtifonnes, 368, 376, 642 Catheter, passage of, 368 Cauda epididymidis, 413, 416 Caudate lobe of liver, 520, 521 Cave of Retzius, 561, 570, 587, 624, 626, 631 Central point of perineum, 355 tendon of diaphragm, 535, 538 Cervix uteri, 637 interior, 637 portio supravaginalis, 637 vaginalis, 637 Cisterna Chyli, 482, 539, 540, 546 Cleft, natal, 216 pudendal, 365, 645 Clitoris, 365, 367, 372 Coccygeal body, 349, 583, 5S6, 602, 609, 649 Cneliac plexus, 460, 514, 543 Colliculus .seminalis, 575 Colon, ascending, 438, 439, 454, 491 descending, 439, 454, 495, 530 iliac, 431, 439, 495, 496 pelvic, 439,534,556,587,598,620 transverse, 432, 437, 43S, 439, 467. 491, 499 Columnm rectales, 602, 610 rugarum vaginm, 649 Commissure, anterior, of vulva, 365INDEX 655 Common bile duct, 447, 462 Compartments of radius, 145 Congenital hernia, 423 Coni vasculosi, 416 Conjoined tendon. See Falx in- guinalis Coraco-acromial arch, 57 Cord, gangliated, of sympathetic, 478, 500, 539, 540, 549, 550, 597, 598, 601, 609, 649 lumbo-sacral, 531, 534 spermatic, 377 Corona glandis, 416 Corpus cavernosum clitoridis, 372 penis, 352, 363, 416 urethrae, 352, 353, 416, 569, 578 Corpus epididymidis, 413 Cortex of kidney, 534 Costal zone, 427 Costo-coracoid ligament, 16 membrane, 10, 15 Crest of urethra, 575 Crucial anastomosis of thigh, 231 Crura clitoridis, 370, 373, 628 of diaphragm, 450, 460, 461, 535, 537, 540, 543 penis, 352, 416, 568 of subcutaneous inguinal ring, 387 1 Crural canal. See Femoral I Crypts of Lieberkiihn, 494 | Cubital fossa, 81 Cutaneous arteries of arm, 5 nerves of arm, 5, 65 Cystic duct, 444, 447, 504 Deep fa.scia of arm, 5 of axilla, 10 pectoral region, 10 of shoulder, 50 I Diaphragm, 395, 427, 450, 453, : 500, 511, 535 central tendon, 535, 538 crura, 450, 460, 461, 535, 537 foramina, 538, 547 ligamentum arcuatum medium, 537 lumbo-costal arches, 535, 536 pelvic, 347, 427 urogenital, 341, 343, 347, 351, 352, 353, 361, 363, 371, 374, 506, 569, 649 inferior fascia of, 352, 356, 358, 374, 577 superior fascia of, 352, 358, 374, 577, 594 Diaphragmatic plexus, 515 Digital fossa of peritoneum, 413 of tunica vaginalis, 413 Discus articularis of wrist, 156 Dissections: Abdomen— perineum, male, 341, 342, 345, 347, 351, 356, 359, 363 female, 368, 369, 371, 372, 373, 374 abdominal wall, 378, 380, 384, 388, 390, 393, 397, 401, 406, 407, 409 testis, 412, 413, 415 penis, 417 lumbar fascia, 418 hernia, 421 abdominal viscera, 444, 445, 448, 458, 475, 484, 4S5, 489, 491, 493, 496, 503, 505, 506, 508 sympathetic plexuses, 514 removal of viscera, 516 diaphragm, 534 posterior wall of abdomen, 539, 548, 551, 555 male pelvis, 561, 566, 568, 570, 574, 579, 580, 581, 597, 603, 609, 612, 613, 61S female pelvis, 624, 628, 632, 641, 648, 649, 650 Lower Extremity— superficial of thigh, 169, 170, 172, 174, 177 deep of thigh, 182, 185, 187, 191, 195, 203 medial side of thigh, 205, 208, 210, 215 glutmal region, 218, 221, 223, 224, 22^ 229, 231, 232 popliteal fossa, 236, 237 back of thigh, 245, 246, 249, 251 hip-joint, 254, 257 anterior crural region, 259, 263 posterior crural region, 276, 280, 281 sole of foot, 289, 292, 294, 298, 300, 303, 306, 307 knee-joint, 310, 312, 313, 315, 3-8 ankle-joint, 323, 329 foot-joints, 331, 335 Upper Extremity- pectoral region, 2, 5, 7, 10 axilla, 14, 16, 17, 28, 356s6 INDEX Dissections : Upper Extremity- back, 37, 38, 40, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47 removal of upper extremity, 47 shoulder, 48, 50, 51, 52, 59, 61 front of the arm, 62, 65, 77, 80 radio-carpal joint, 151 dorsum of the arm, 83, 85, 88 forearm and hand, 94, 96, 98, loi, 104, 112, 113, 116, 126, 130 dorsum and lateral border of the forearm, 132,136,146,148 Diverticulum Meckelii, 473 Dorsal expansion of extensor ten- i dons, 145, 266 Douglas, fold of, 623 pouch of, 645 Duct, bile, 447, 462 cystic, 444, 447, 504 ejaculatory, 576, 596, 597 hepatic, 445, 447 pancreatic, 449, 503 prostatic, 576 j thoracic, 546 i Ductuli efferentes testis, 415 Ductus choledochus. See Bile duct venosus, 443, 506, 518 ; deferens, 377, 405, 410, 422, ! S4S. 556, S6i, 562, 567, 56S, i 570, 580, 587, 596, 599 Duodenal fossre, 474 j Duodeno-jejunal flexure, 438, 472, I 502 I Duodeno-pyloric constriction, 466 Duodenum, 443, 471, 474, 476, 479, 496-500, 504, 534, 540, 543 I coats, 511 I suspensory muscle, 472, 500 Ejaculatory ducts, 576, 596, 597 Elbow, 63 arterial anastomoses, 140 cubital fossa, 81 ] joint, 148 superficial veins, 69 1 surface anatomy, 63 surgical anatomy, 63 Endo - pelvic fascia. See Eascia, pelvic Epididymis, 413, 415 ductus epididymidis, 416 structure of, 415 Epigastric region, 431 Epoophoron, 644 Excavation. See b'ossa Extensor tendons, of fingers, 145 V ■ of toes, 266 Fallopian tubes. See Uterine tubes.' Falx inguinalis, 391, 397, 403 Fascia of abdomen, 378 anal, 347 of arm, 6, 70, 77, 79 axillary, 10 of back, 38 of Camper, 169, 379, 380 clavipectoral, 15, 17 of Colles,_343, 345, 380 cremasteric, 393, 407 cribrosa, 178 femoris, 169, 177, 228, 229 of foot, 291 of forearm, 97, 132 glutreal, 218-22 of hand, 115, 116 iliaca, 125, 183, 401, 548 inferior of urogenital diaphragm, 352, 627, 628, 634 infundibuliform, 401, 407, 422 intercolumnar, 378, 388 internal spermatic, 401 lacertus fibrosus, 71, 73, 79, 82 of leg, 261, 285 lumbar, 395, 41S palmar aponeurosis, 115 pectoral, 5, 10 pelvic, 347, 361, 556, 563, 626 parietal or diaphragmatic, 563, 565, 588, 604, 612, 624, 625, 626 recto-vaginal, 629, 645 ' recto-vesical, 566, 587, 596 vesical, 567, 570, 592, 629 visceral layer, 565, 565, 566, 568, 592, 596, 597, 604, 624, 625, 626, 629, 632 of perineum, 342, 368 pectinea, 178, 184, 425 piriformis, 581 plantar, 330 popliteal, 178, 236 of popliteus, 239, 243, 249, 284 of psoas and iliacus, 548, 563, 627 of quadratus lumborum, 547 rectal, 582, 585, 629 of .Scarpa, 169, 344, 379, 3S0. See Eaccrtus fibrosus of slioulder, 50 of sole, 289 spermatic, 385, 386, 38S, 407 of thigh and buttock, 169, 245,246657 INDEX Fascia— transversalis, 183, 399, 400, 401 i upper fascia of pelvic diaphragm, I 347. 565. 624, 626, 628, 629, ! 634 ! Femoral hernia, 185, 424 f canal, 185, 424-425 I septum, 185, 425 sheath, 184, 381, 402 I Fibrae intercrurales, 388 I Fibro-cartilages, semilunar. See Menisci |; trian^lar of wrist. See Discus |! articularis I Fimbria, ovarian, 643 Fimbriae of Fallopian tube, 643 1 Fingers, extensor tendons, 145 flexor sheaths and tendons, 104, ; 123, 125 1 movements, 163, 164, 165 surgical anatomy, 131 ; Fissure of ductus venosus, 443, 450 transverse, of liver, 443 ‘ umbilical, 443 I urogenital, 365 ' Flexor tendons of foot, 292, 294, 299 ' of hand, 104, 123, 125 , sheaths of, 104, 123, 125 I Flexure, duodeno-jejunal, 474 left colic, 436, 495, 513 right colic, 439, 491, 529 I Fold, axillary, 4 of Douglas, 623 middle umbilical, 561, 621 of nates, 216 ovario-pelvic, 621, 646 pancreatico-gastric, 448 recto-vesical, 560 sacro-genital, 457, 557, 591, 596 transverse vesical, 561 utero-sacral, 623 utero-vesical, 623 Foot, arches, 329, 334 cutaneous nerves, 259, 272, 289, 296, 298 dorsum, 259 fascia, 269, 291 intermuscular septa, 292 joints, 330, 338 sole, 289. See also Sole surface anatomy, 258 synovial cavities, 338 ■ Foramen epiploicum, 445, 447, 448, 451, 453, 462, 504, 505, 543 venae cavae, in diaphragm, 538 ■ Forearm, 94 VOL. I 42 Forearm— cutaneous nerves, 95, 96, 119, 120 deep anterior structures, 108 deep posterior structures, 136 dorsum and lateral border, 132 fascia, 97 muscles, anterior superficial, loi posterior superficial, 133 superficial veins, 94 surface anatomy, 111 Fornix of vagina, 624, 641 lateral fornix relations, 641 Fossa, cubital, 73, 81 digital, of peritoneum, 413 of tunica vaginalis, 413 for ductus venosus, 443, 450, 518, 519. 520 duodenal, upper and lower, 474 duodenal-jejunal, 474 for gall-bladder, 519 genital, 559, 623 ileo-CDScal, anterior and posterior, 414 ileo-colic, 474 infraclavicular, 2 infrasternal, 4 inguinal, 421 medial and lateral, 421 intersigmoid, 475 ischio-rectal, 346 navicularis, 367, 578 ovalis, 172, 173 ovarica, 644 paraduodenal, 474 pararectal, 559, 584 paravesical, 559, 561, 589,623,632 poplitea, 234 recto-vaginal fossa, 645 recto-vesical fossa, 559, 584, 587, 591. 592, 596, 610, 631 retro-colic, 474, 489 retro-duodenal, 474 supravesical, 421, 561 umbilical, 443, 506, 5^9 utero-vesical fossa, 632 for vena cava inferior, 518, 519, 521, 522 Fossae, peritoneal, 421, 443, 474, 475. 519. 539. 561. 644 Frenula, of ileo-caecal valve, 490 Frenulum clitoridis, 365 labiorum pudendi, 366 Frenum preputii, 417, 578 Fundus of stomach, 434, 465 uteri, 636 Furrow, iliac, 216658 INDEX Gall-bladder, 437, 443, 444 fossa for, 444 position, 444 Gangliated cord of sympathetic, 478, 500, 539, 540, 549, 550, .597, 598. 601, 609, 649 Ganglion impar, 609 coeliac, 460, 514, 543 Gastro-colic omentum, 435, 437, 447, 451, 453 Gastro-hepatic omentum, 443, 445, 448, 451, 467, 504, 519 Gastro-splenic ligament. See Liga- ment, Gastro-lienal Genital fossa, 559, 623 Glands, suprarenal, 450, 460, 467, 501, 503, 514, 543 Gians clitoridis, 367, 372 penis, 416 Glisson’s capsule, 522, 524 Glutseal region, 215 cutaneous nerves, 218 fascia, 221 parts beneath glutseus maxi- mus, 224 parts beneath glutreus medius, 233 parts beneath glutteus minimus, 234 surface anatomy, 216 sulcus, 216 Gubernaculum testis, 409 ovarii, 639 Htemorrhoidal plexus, 602 venous, 602, 608 Hand, iii, 142 cutaneous nerves, 87, 96, 97, 107, 108, 119, 120 dorsum, 142 extensor tendons, 145 fascia, 114, 115 flexor tendons, 104, 123, 125 joints, 158 palm. III. See also VsXm superficial veins, 69 surface anatomy, 111 surgical anatomy, 131 Hepatic ducts, 447, 504 Hepatic flexure of colon. See Colon, right flexure Hepatic plexus, 447, 515 Hernia, 420 femoral, 185, 424 inguinal, 423 direct, 422 Hernia— coverings of, 423 oblique, 423 coverings of, 422 lumbar, 418 obturator, 582 sciatic, 581 umbilical, 426 coverings of, 426 Hiatus tendineus, 194 Hilus of kidney, 528, 532 of ovary, 644, 646, 647 of spleen, 513 of suprarenal gland, 525 Hunter’s canal. See Canalis adduct- orius, 193 Hydatid of Morgagni, 645 Hymen, 367, 375, 642 Hypochondriac region, 431 Hypogastric plexus, 484, 516, 608 region, 431 zone, 430 Hypothenar eminence, ill Ileo-csecal fossa, 431, 439, 495, 496 orifice, 490 position, 490 valve, of the colon, 490 Ileo-colic fossa, 444 Ileum, 438, 471, 472, 534 Iliac colon, 431, 439, 495, 496 furrow, 216 region, 431 Ilio-tibial tract, 168, 177, 179 Impression, cardiac, 518 colic, 520 duodenal, 520 gastric, 520 hepatic, 528 oesophageal, 520 renal, 520 suprarenal, 520, 522 Incisura angularis, 520. See Im- pression, cesophageal umbilicalis, 443 Inferior gastric plexus, 621 Infraclavicular fossa, 2 Infrapatellar pad, 314 Infrasternal fossa, 4 Infundibula of kidney, 533 abdominal ring, 402, 404, 410, 420, 422, 424, 639 subcutaneous ring, 377, 3S6, 394, 420 Inguinal canal, 402, 420INDEX 659 Inguinal canal— fossEe, 421 hernia, 422, 423 Inscriptiones tenclinere, 39S Insertions of flexor tendons—toes, 299 Intercostal nerves, ,SV^ Thoracic nerves Tntercrural fibres, 38S Interior of knee-joint, 314 Intermuscular septa of arm, 71 of leg, 262, 279 of sole, 292 of thigh, 17S, 201 spaces of back, 44 of shoulder, 51 Interosseous membrane of fore- arm, 156 of leg, 327 Intersigmqid fossa, 475 Intertubercular plane, 429 Intestine, large, 438, 494, 495 small, 436, 471, 485 Ischio-rectal fossa, 346 boundaries, 346 contents, 347 Isthmus of Fallopian tube, 653 uteri, 637 Jejunum, 438, 471 Joint or Joints, acromio-clavicular, 57 ankle (talocruraUs), 322 capsule, 324 lig, calcaneo-fibular, 325 lig. deltoid, 326 lig, talo-fibular, anterior, 324 posterior, 325 j movements, 326 synovial membrane, 326 calcaneo-cuboid, 333 carpal, 158 intercarpal, 159 articular surfaces, 163 ligaments, 160 movements, i6i synovial membrane, 162 movements, 163 carpo-metacarpal, 161 coccygeal, 615 cubo-cuneiform, "frc, -r-ifi elbow (cubiti), 149 capsule, 149 lig. collateral radial, 149 ulnar, 149 synovial membrane, 150 1—42 a Joint or Joints— movements, 151 of foot, 329, 33S hip-joint, 251 cervical ligaments, 256 ilio-femoral, 253 ischio-capsular, 253 labrum glenoidale, 254 ligamentum teres, 214, 234, 251, 256 lig. transversum acetabuli, 255 movements and muscles, 254 ]iubo-capsular, 253 synovial membrane, 256 zona orbicularis, 253 intercuneiform, 334 intermetacarpal, 161 intermetatarsal, 337 interphalangeal, of foot, 320 of hand, 165 knee-joint, 310 capsule, 310 cruciate ligaments, 318 fibular collateral ligament, 312 interior of joint, 314 lig. patellae, 311 lig. transversum, 321 menisci, 320 movements at the, 318 oblique popliteal, 239, 245, 249. 309. 313 patellar synovial fold, 315 plicae alares, 315 synovial memlirane, 315 tibial collateral lig., 276, 312 lumbo-.sacral, 613 metacarpophalangeal, 163 accessory volar ligament, 1C3 collateral ligaments, 164 movements, 164 .synovial membrane, 164 metatarso - phalangeal, plantar accessory ligaments of, 338 naviculo-cuboid, 335 naviculo-cuneiform, 335 of pelvis, 612 pisiform, 158 radio-carpal joints, 152 capsule, 152 lig. dorsal radio-carpal, 152 lig. r.adial collateral carpal, 152 lig. volar radio-carjial, 752 lig. ulnar collateral carpal, 152 movements, 154 synovial membrane, 154 radio ulnar joints, 15466o INDEX Joint or Joints— annular ligament of the radius, 1 155 capsule of inferior radio-ulnar I joint, 155 , ; discus articularis, 156 j movements. 157 synovial membrane, 156 sacro-coccygeal, 615 sacro iliac, 615 lig. anterior, 615 interosseous, 616 long posterior, 616 short posterior, 616 movements, 617 sacro-lumbar, 615 shoulder-joint, 88 articular surface, 94 movements, 94 sterno-clavicular ligs., 28 synovial membrane, 94 taloid, 330 ligaments, 331 tarso-metatarsal, 336 tibio-fibular, 326, 328 ligaments of, 328 syndesmosis, 328 transverse carpal, 159 tarsal, 333 wrist, 152 Kidney, 440, 450, 454, 460, 463, 467, 476, 499. 50'. 503. 5'3. 526 calices, 533 capsule, 532 columns, 534 cortex, 534 form, 527 hilus, 528, 532, 542 j impressions, hepatic, 528 colic, 529 I duodenal, 529 infundibula, 533 medulla, I papillee, 533 pelvis, 532 position, 526 l^osterior relations, 531 shape, 527 sinus, 528, 532, 542 size and weight, 527 structure, 533 surfaces, 528 ureter, 474, 476, 47S, 534, 557, 562, 573. 592, 593. 597. 624, ; Kidney— 625, 633, 634,635, 641,644, 646 Knee, arterial anastomosis, 307 articular nerves, 212, 240, 242, 245. 249, 275, 276, 309 joint, 310 surface anatomy, 168 Labia majora, 365 minora, 365 Lacteal vessels, 474, 482 Lacunie urethrales, 57S Leg. 257 anterior compartment, 259 crural region, 258 cutaneous nerves, 259, 277 fascia, 261, 278, 285 intermuscular septa, 262, 279 interosseous membrane, 327 lateral crural region, 259 medial crural region, 259 posterior osteo - fascial compart- ment (posterior crural region), 259 superficial veins, 259, 276 surface anatomy, 257 Ligamentum or Ligamenta aero- mio-clavicular, 37, 58 of ankle-joiut, 322 capsule, 324 lig. calcaneo-fibular, 325 lig. deltoid, 326 lig. talo-fibular, anterior, 324 posterior, 325 annular of the radius, 155 anterior longitudinal, 543, 613 anterior pubic, 618 arcuate pubic, 34°. 357. 376, 61S, 629 bifurcatum (of foot), 333 of bladder, 557, 661, 632 lateral false, 621 posterior false, 560 true, 561, 567, 623, 627 brevia, 125 broad, of uterus, 440, 621, 625, 635. 641. 646 calcaneo-cuboid, 33c, 333, 334 calcaneo-navicular, lateral, 333 calcaneo-navicular, plantar, 330, . . capsular of shoulder-joint, 90 of carpat jot Ills, 160 cervical, of hip-joint, 256 chorda oblicpia, 155, 157661 INDEX Ligamentum or Ligamenta— coccygeal, 6i^ conoid, 57 of Cooper, 9 coraco-acromial, 57 coraco-clavicular, 57 coraco-humeral, 92 coronary, 442, 453, 516 costo-coracoid, 16 cruciate, 3i6,'3i8, 319, 320 cruciatum cruris, 261, 265, 273 cubo-cuneiform, 335 cutaneous, of phalanges, 116 digital cruciate, 124 digital vaginal, 124 discus articularis (of wrist-joint), 156 dorsal, 97 carpal, 132, 143, 145 transverse, 97, 105, 120 volar, 121 of elbow-joint, 149 ulnar collateral, 104 falciform, of liver, 427, 432, 442, ^ 453. 518 of fingers, 125 flava, 613 of foot, 329 gastro-colic, 435, 458 gastro-lienal 435, 447, 451, 458, 464, 468 gastro-phrenic, 435, 46S gleno-humeral, 92 hepato-duodenal, 458 hepato-gastric, 458 of Hey, 173 of hip-joint, 251-256 ilio-femoral, 253 ilio-lumbar, 547, 614 ilio-sacral, anterior, 549 inferior peroneal retinaculum, 262, 274 inguinale, 166, 180, 188, 377, 380, 3S5, 389, 403, 422, 424, . .545 inguinale reflexum, 390, 403 intercuneiform, 334 intermetacarpal, 162 intermetatarsal, 336, 337 interosseous, of ankle, 325 interosseous membrane of the forearm, 156 interphalangeal, 162, 338 interspinous, 613 ischio-capsular, 253 of kidney, 528 Ligamentum or Ligamenta— of knee-joint, 276, 310, 320 cruciate, 318, 321-322 fibular collateral lig., 247, 312, 320 oblique popliteal, 239, 245, 249, . 309, 313 lig. transverse, 321 menisci, 320, 321. 322 tibial collateral lig., 213, 248, 249. 312, 321 labrum glenoidale of shoulder- joint, 90 l.acunar, 172, 173, i8r, 3S9, 402, 425 heno-renal, 436, 451, 454, 460, 464. 506 lig. laciniatiim cruris, 278, 279, 284, 288 of liver, 442-443 longa, 125 lumbar trunks, 546 lumbo-sacral, 614 metacarpo-phalangeal, 146 volar ligament of, 146 metatarso-phalangeal, 338 mucosum, 315 naviculo-cuboid, 335 naviculo-cuneiform, 335 j oblique popliteal, 239, 245, 249, 309. 313 j ovario-pelvic, 621, 646 of ovary, 621, 622, 637-639 of patella, 204, 311 ! jiateilar synovial fold, 315 of peritoneum, 513 phrenico-colic, 436, 454, 495, 513 i plantar, long, 306, 333 plicae alares, 315 posterior, longitudinal, of spine, 613 [losterior pubic, 618 pubic, 613, 618 pubo-capsular, 253 pubo - prostatic, 561, 570, 588, 594, 611 pubo-vesical lateral, 567 medial, 567, 624, 627, 629, 631 superior, 567 radio-ulnar, 155-156 round, of liver, 413, 443 of hip-joint, 214, 256 of uterus, 386, 545, 639 sacro-coccygeal, 613 sacro-genital, 457, 557, 596 sacro-iliac, 613, 614INDEX 662 Ligamentum or Ligament— sacro-spinosum, 226, 227, 556, 617 sacro-tuberosum, 222, 226, 227, 340, 347, 556, 608, 612, 616 of shoulder, 94 subflava, 613 supraspinous, 613 superior pubic, 618 superior peroneal retinaculum, 262, 274 suspensory of ovary, 621, 646 suspensory of penis, 417, 568 talo-calcaneal, 330 talo-calcaneum interosseum, 321 laterale, 331 mediale, 331 posterius, 331 talo-navicular, 381 talo-naviculare dorsale, 331 tarso-metatarsal, 336 teres, of hip, 214, 256 of liver, 426, 443, 506 of uterus, 623 tibio-fibular, 326, 328 transverse, of ankle, 325 of hip, 255 of knee, 321 metacarpal, 115, 146 of the heads of the metatarsal bones, 146 of palm, 120, 143 of pelvis, 352, 359, 374, 375, 569 perineal, 341 transverse superficial ligament of hand, 113 transversum cruris, 261, 265, 273 transversum scapulae inferius, 62 superius, 62 trapezoid, 157 triangular ofliver, 443, 516-51S ulnar collateral, 104 umbilicale medium, 561, 567, 5S7 laterale, 599, 624 urogenital diaphragm, 341-343 venosum, 506 vincula tendina digitorum, 124 zona orbicularis, 253 zonular, of hip, 253 Limb, lower, 166 back of thigh, 245 foot, 259, 289 front of thigh, 1C9 glutmal region, 215 Limb, lower— joints, 251, 310, 322, 329, 338 leg, 257 medial side of thigh, 204 popliteal space, 234 surface anatomy, 166, 168, 216, 218, 23s, 257 Limb, upper, i axilla, 13 dorsal structures, 37. See also Back dorsum of the arm, 62 forearm, 94 front of the arm, 62 hand, no joints, 82, 139 pectoral structures, 2. See also Pectoral region scapular region, 48. See also Shoulder surface anatomy, 2, 35, 62, in, 131 wrist, 110, 142 Line of Nelaton, 218 Linea alba, 376, 384, 399 semicircularis, 399 semilunaris, 377 Linem transversas, 398 Liver, 432, 441 bare area of, 521, 522 connections, 441 j ducts, 445, 447, 49S, 501, 504 I fissures, 443 impressions, colic, 520 duodenal, 520 gastric, 520 oesophageal, 520 renal, 520 suprarenal, 520-522 ligaments, 442,443,453,457, 516 lobes, 442, 520, 521 porta hepatis, 443-445- 447- 49^- 505, 519, 520, 522 position, 441, 442 structure, 524 surfaces, 442, 443, 517 transverse fissure, 443 vessels, 462, 504 Lobus caudatus of liver, 520, 521- 450, 451, 518 Lumbar glands, 411, 539, 546 plexus, 551 region, 431 Lumbo-sacral cord, 55’ Lymph glands, aortic, 647 of arm, 70663 INDEX Lymph glands, axillary, 17, iq cardiac, 445 common iliac, 603 external iliac, 546, 647 femoral, 172 hypogastric, 603, 647 infraclavicular, ii inguinal, 172, 647 lateral sacral, 603 lumbar, 411, 539, 546 mesenteric, 474, 476, 4S2 pectoral, 20 of popliteal space, 237 rectal, 603 sacral, 603 sternal, 20 subinguinal, 172 subscapular, 21 Lymph vessels, deep femoral, 546 of breast, 10 of pelvis, 603, 647 spermatic, 411 lumbar trunks, 546 Mammary gland, 8 blood supply, 10 lymph vessels, 10 position, 9 Meatus urinarius, 416, 578, 634 Meckel’s diverticulum, 473 Mediastinum testis, 414 Medulla of kidney, 533 of suprarenal gland, 467 Membrane, costo-coracoid, 15 interosseous, of forearm, 156 of leg, 327 obturator, 612, 618 Menisci, 320, 321 Mercier’s bar, 573 Mesenteric glands, 474, 476, 482 plexus, inferior, 484, 516 superior, 481 Mesentery, 438, 455, 472, 473, 499, 540, 543 of large intestine, 440, 490 proper, 438, 455, 472, 473 suspensory muscle of, 500 Meso-appendix, 440, 489 Meso colon, pelvic, 455, 483, 569, 601, 620 transverse, 438, 447, 450, 455, 467, 478, 493 Mesometrium, 623 Mesorchium, 409 Mesosalpinx, 623 I Mesovarium, 623, 643 I Metatarso - phalangeal joints, 305 plantar accessory ligaments of, 305 Mid-Poupart plane. Sec Inguinal plane, 429 Mons Veneris, 364 Morgagni, hydatids of, 645 Movements at the knee-joint, 316 in the foot-joints, 339 Mucous sheaths of flexor tendons, 122 Musculus or Musculi, abductor hal- lucis, 194 abductor indicis, 147 digiti quinti of foot, 194 of hand, 128 pollicis, 127 longus, 136, 137, 138 adductor brevis, 1S9, 209 hallucis, 301 longus, 189, 205 magnus, 194, 213 pollicis, 127 transversus hallucis, 301 anconmus, 85, 135 of ankle-movements, 326 articularis genu, 204 biceps brachii, 72, 78, 93 femoris, 246, 312, 327 brachialis, 72, 79 brachio-radialis, 72, 80, 81, 133 bulbo-cavernosus, 350, 354, 355 coccygeus, 556, 600, 603, 604, 60s, 606, 617 coraco-brachialis, 71, 72, 78 corrugator cutis ani, 342 cremaster, 392 dartos, 343, 369, 406 deltoideus, 50 detrusor urinte, 611 of elbow movements, 151 extensor brevis digitorum, 271 brevis pollicis, 137 carpi radialis lirevis, 134 longus, 72, 80, 133 carpi ulnaris, 135 digiti quinti proprius, 135, 146 digitorum communis, 135 digitorum longus, 249,263,265, 285, 286 hallucis longus, 263, 266, 286 pollicis, 126 indicis proprius, 138, 145 pollicis longus, 138 of finger movements, 164, 165INDEX 664 Musculus or Musculi— Jlexor brevis digitorum, 293 digiti quinli, of foot, 299, 303 digit! quinti brevis, 128,129 hallucis longiis, 285, 298, 301 pollicis brevis, 127 carpi radialis, 102,147 ulnaris, 103 digitorum longus, 298, 299 hallucis longus, 299 pollicis longus, 109 digitorum profundus, 109 tendons, 123, 125 digitorum sublimis, 104 tendons, 123, 125 of foot movements, 339 gastrocnemius, 279 gemelli, 230, 607, 608 gluteeus maximus, 218, 222, 223, 347 glutseus medius, 220, 221, 232, 607 glutreus minimus, 234, 607 gracilis, 213, 275 hamstring, 246 of hand movements, 154 of hip movements, 254 iliacus, 189, 214, 547, 549, 554, 601 ilio-psoas, 183, 189, 214 infraspinatus, 59 inserted into clavicle and scapula, 48 intercostal internal, 391 interosseous, of foot, 306 of hand, 146, 147 primi volaris, 147 ischio-cavernosus (female), 370 (male), 350, 354, 355 of knee movements, 318 lateral rotators of thigh, 254 latissimus dorsi, 40, 42, 220, 385 levator scapula;, 40, 46 ani, 347, 349, 355, 556, 566, 583, 584, 585, 595, 603, 609, 628 action of, 604 prostatas, 604 lumbricales, of foot, 299, 300 of hand, 126 obliquus abdominis externus, 384, 385,.394 abdominis interims, 384, 390, 392, 394 obturator externus, 214, 231 internus, 230, 556, 612 Musculus or Musculi— omo-hyoideus, 45 opponens quinti digiti, 128, 129 pollicis, 127 palmaris brevis, 113 longus, 102 pectineus, 189, 208 pectoralis major, 12 minor, 17 peronasus brevis, 274 digiti quinti, 274 longus, 274, 306 tertius, 263, 267 piriformis, 230, 556,600,601, 605, 606, 607, 612 plantaris, 280 platysma, 5 popliteus, 284, 285, 309, 312, 327 pronator quadratus, 109 teres, 81, loi psoas magnus, 214, 474, 476, 53i> 534> 547. 549, 55i, 601 parvus, 549 pyramidalis, 384, 394, 398 quadratus femoris, 231, 547, 601, 607 lumborum, 396, 476, 531, 549, 551 planta;, 299, 300 quadriceps femoris, 201, 204 of radio ulnar movements, 158 rectus abdominis, 384, 392, 398 femoris, 201, 234 rhomboideus major, 40, 46 minor, 40, 46 sacro-spinalis, 220, 396 sartorius, 192, 249, 275 semimembranosus, 249 semitendinosus, 248, 275 serratus anterior, 34, 35, 3S5 short, of little finger, 128 of thumb, 127 soleus, 281 sphincter ani externus, 342, 346, 349, 585 internus, 349, 585 urethra: membranaceiv, 35*, 359, 360, 374, 375, 556, 628, 634 vagina:, 371 vesica:, 632 subancomvus, 85, 88 subclavius, 15, 27 subscapularis, 59 supinator. Si, 14S supraspinatus, 58INDEX 665 Musculus or Musculi— suspensory, of duodenum ami mesentery, 472, 500 tensor fascije latte, 199, 607 teres major, 56 minor, 58 of thumb movements, 163 tibialis anterior, 263, 265 posterior, 285, 286, 306, 330 transversus abdominis, 384, 393, 394, 395, 547 pedis, 301 perinei superficialis, 350, 354, 357, 370 profundus, 351, 356, 359, 375 trapezius, 40, 41 triceps brachii, 74, 83 vastus lateralis, 202 intermedius, 203 medialis, 194, 203 Natal cleft, 216 glutieal fold, 216 Navel, 377, 399, 426, 506 Nelaton’s line, 218 Nerve or Nerves, accessory obtura- tor, 208 acromial, 6 anastomotic peroneal, 242, 278 to anconeus, 136 anterior crural. See femoral articular, of ankle, 284 of hip, 212 of knee, 212, 240, 242, 245, 249, 275, 276, 309 of shoulder, 55 axillary, 49, 54, 59 to bulb of urethra, 356 cavernous, 609 cervical, 6, 42 i circumflex. See Axillary 1 clavicular, 6 coccygeal, 603, 608 to coccygeus, 605 common peroneal, 229, 235, 241 274, 309, 606 to coraco-brachialis, 78 cutaneous, of abdomen, 381 of arm, 49, 65, 67 of back, 38 of buttock, 2:8 of chest, 16, 21 of foot, 259 of forearm, 65, 67, 95 of leg, 259 lumbar, 219 Nerve or Nerves— of radial, 59, So sacral, 219 of thigh, 174, 24s deep peroneal, 261, 263, 266, 267, 26S, 271, 273 ramus of radial, 87, 99, 134, 135 descending cutaneous, of cervical plexus, 6 digital, of foot, 296, 298 of hand, 119, 120 dorsal, of clitoris, 374, 376 cutaneous nerves of forearm, 65 of penis, 358, 361, 363, 417, 569 dorsalis scapula.’, 31, 46 external spermatic, 393, 410, 545, 553 femoral, 183, 189, 193, 196, 202, 203, 309, 489, 496, 549, 551, 554 to femoral artery, 212 furcalis, 551 geniculate, of obturator, 237 gluteal, inferior, 223, 227, 607 superior, 199, 226, 232, 233, 607 hamiorrhoidal, inferior, 346, 362 hypogastric, 552 iliac, 551 ilio-hypogastric, 220, 381, 383, 390, 394, 549, 551, 552 ilio-inguinal, 174, 3S2, 390, 394, 549>.55i. 552 infraclavicular, 6 intercostal, 21, 29, 394 intercosto-brachial, 21, 167 intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve of the foot, 260 cutaneous of thigh, 175, 191, 197 interosseous dorsal, 134-141, 146 volar, 108, 109, 110 last thoracic, 220, 383, 390, 394, 398, 536, 549. 554 lateral cutaneous, 6, 21, 382, 394 nerve of the forearm, 67 of calf, 260 of thigh, 175, 183, 1S9, 220, 549. 552. 553 to levator am, 346, 348, 349 long thoracic nerve, 31 to longus colli, 31 lumbar, 551, 605 lumboinguinal, 175, 1S2, 183,INDEX 666 Nerve or Nerves— 1S9, 393. 476, 478. 534. 549. 551. 553 ■ lumbo-sacral cord, 551, 554, 601, 605 medial brachial cutaneous nerve, 66, 77 medial calcanean, 278, 284 cutaneous nerve of the forearm, 67. 77 of the foot, 260 of calf, 237, 240, 278 of thigh, 175, 191, 197, 278 median, 77, 102, 104, 105, 107, 119 musculo-cutaneous, 78, 80 nervus furcalis, 551 obturator, 205, 210, 211, 214, 245. 246, 309, 551, 554, 593, 597, 598, 601, 624, 625 accessory, 551, 554 to obturator internus, 229, 607 palmar cutaneous, 95 to pectineus, 197 perforating cutaneous, 347, 608 perineal, 347, 350, 351, 355, 360, 361, 362, 374, 375, 376 of fourth sacral, 346, 348, 349 perineal long branch of posterior cutaneous of thigh, 228, 343, 351, 60s phrenic, 538 communication with, 31 plantar, lateral, 294, 298, 300, 302, 303, 304 medial, 194, 196, 300, 301 to popliteus, 240 posterior cutaneous nerve of the arm, 67 of the thigli, 220, 221, 226, 227, 236, 239, 246, 277, 347, 607 pudendal, 229, 348, 361, 362, 375. 606 to pyrifonnis, 608 to quadratus femoris, 231, 607 radial, 67, 73, 75, 80, 82, 84, 85, 136 to rectus femoris, 19S sacral, 230, 346, 347, 600, 601, 603, 605, 608 saphenous 176, 194, 198, 260, 275. 278 to sartorius, 197 to scalenus anterior, 31 medius, 31 posterior, 31 Nerve or Nerves— sciatic, 226, 229, 249, 605, 606 scrotal, 343 spinal accessory, 42 splanchnic, great, 460, 515, 539 small, 515, 539 smallest, 515, 539 subscapular, long, 31, 45, 58, 60 superficial peroneal, 260, 274, 275 ramus of radial, 87, 96, 98, 99 suprascapular, 6, 48 sural, 260, 277, 278 to tensor fasciae latte, 199 to teres minor, 56 thoracal anterior, 5, 32, 394, 398 longus, 32 thoracodorsalis, 32 upper, 32, 59 lower, 32, 59 tibial, 229, 239, 263, 281, 282, 284, 286, 287, 309, 606 ulnar, 75, 77, 96, 105, 106, 120 collateral, 87 deep branch, 120, 128, 129 superficial branch, 120 vagus, 445, 460, 539 to vasti, 198 to vastus intermedins, 197 volar digital, 119 Nipple, 9 Nymphte, 365 Obturator hernia, 582 membrane, 554, 556 QLsophageal opening of diaphragm, 538 orifice of stomach, 434 (Esophagus, 465, 470 Omental bursa, 445, 447, 448, 450 Omentum, 435 gastro-colic, 435, 437, 447, 451, 453 great, 431, 435, 437, 439, 447, 451. 453 lesser, 435, 443, 445, 448, 451, 467. 504, 519 small, 432 Opening in adductor inagnus, 242, 250 Organ of Rosenmuller, 644 Orifice, cardiac, 434, 465 of bladder, 570, 571, 588, 611, 632667 INDEX Orifice — ileo-ca*cal, 490 pyloric, 509 Ostium abdominale of uterine tube, 643 Os uteri externum, 637 internum, 637 Ovarian fimbria, 643 plexus, 484, 516, 647, 648 Ovario-pelvic fold, 621, 646 Ovary, 598, 643 fossa ovarica, 644 hilus, 644, 646, 647 ligament of, 644 posterior border, 644 relations, 644 suspensory' ligament of, 621 tubal extremity, 644 uterine extremity, 644 Oviducts, 643 Ovula Nabothi, 648 Pacinian bodies, 120 Pad, infra-patellar of fat, 314 Palm, III cutaneous nerves, 87, 96, 97, 107, 119, 120 fascia, 114, 115 flexor tendons and sheaths, 104, 123, 126 short muscles, 127, 128 surface anatomy, 111 surgical anatomy, 131 Palmar arch, deep, 130 superficial, 116, 118 Pampiniform plexus, 410 Pancreas, 450, 460, 461, 467, 476, 478, 480, 481, 498, 500, 504, 50s. 5'3. 53°> 540, 543 processus uncinatus of, 501, 505 tuber omentale, 502 Pancreatic duct, 499, 503 Pancreatico-duodenal plexus, 191, 515 Pancreatico-gastric folds, 448, 451, 460, 461, 462 Panniculus adiposus, sui)crficial fascia of u|)per extremity, 5 abdominal wall, 378 back, 38 perineum, 342 Papilla, bile, 503, 505 duodeni, 503, 505 Papillae of kidney, 533 Paraduodenal fossa, 474 Parametrium, 639, 647 Pararectal fossa, 559, 5S4 Para-urethral ducts, 634 Paroophoron, 623 Patellar plexus, 177, 191 ! Pectiniform septum, 579 • ! Pectoral region, 4 axilla, 13. See also Axilla j cutaneous nerves and arteries, I 16, 19, 22, 26, 28 fascia, 10 mammary gland, 8 muscles, 12, 17, 27 surface anatomy, 4 Pelvic colon, 439, 534, 598, 620 , fascia. See Fascia, pelvic parietal. See Fascia, pelvic rectal layer, 582, 585, 629 recto-vaginal layer, 629, 645 recto-vesical layer, 566, 587, 596 relation of vessels and nerves, 581 vesical layer, 566, 587, 596 visceral. See Fascia, vesical ‘ white line, 604 Pelvis, male, 555 articulations, 612 blood-vessels, 557, 598 cavity, 429 contents of male, 557 diaphragm, 347, 427 fascia. See Fascia, pelvic floor, 452, 583, 626, 629 major, 556 minor, 556 segments of in female, 630 viscera, 556 female, 619 ' contents of, 619 I general position of viscera, 620 i of kidney, 532 peritoneum, 557, 620 I spinal nerves, 598, 600, 605, i ^^9 I sympathetic nerves, 609 ; Penis, 351, 354, 357. 416, 579. ('09 I structure of, 579 1 septum pectiniforme, 579 Perineal body, 371, 629, 645 triangle, 369 Perineum, male, 340 anal triangle, 369 body, 371 boundaries, 340 central point, 355 fascia, 342, 368668 INDEX Perineum— female, 364 ischio-recial fossa, 346 male, 340 superficial muscles, 370 surface anatomy, 340, 364 urogenital triangle, 341 Peritoneum, 432, 458 bursa omentalis, 445, 447, 448, 450 fossEe, 474 large sac, 445, 451 lateral gutters of, 455 ligaments, 435, 447, 451, 458, 495, 513, 567 mesenteries, 438, 455, 472, 473, 499. 540, 543 omenta, 458 parietal, 458 pelvic, 557 vertical gutters of, 454 visceral, 458 Peroneal septa, 262 Petit’s lumbar triangle, 41S Peyer’s patches. See Aggregated lymph nodules Phrenico-colic ligament, 42S Pillars of subcutaneous inguinal ring, 387 Plane, intertubercular, 429 mid-inguinal, 429 subcostal, 429 transpyloric, 469, 496 vertical 430 Plantar arch, 303 Platysma myoides, 5 Pleural cavity, 531 Plexus or Plexuses, aortic, 476, 484, 515, 540, 550 brachial, 28 branches of, 31 divisions of, 30 relations of, 30 coeliac, 340, 461, 482, 484, 514 diaphragmatic, 515 gastric superior, 515 htemorrhoidal, 602 venous, 602, 608 hepatic, 447, 515 hypogastric, 484, 516, 608 inferior gastric, 515 inferior mesenteric, 484, 516 lienal, 515 lumbar, 551 ovarian, 4S4, 516, 647, 648 pampiniform, 410, 646, 647 Plexus or Plexuses— pancreatico-duodenal, 515 patellar, 177, 191 pelvic, 605, 625 pelvic, sympathetic, 608 phrenic, 515 prostatico-vesical, 595 venous, 417 pudendal, 603, 609, 647 venous, 417 renal, 4S4, 515 sacro-coccygeal (coccygeal), 598, 608, 649 sacro-pudendal, 598, 600, 605, 649 sacral band of, 606 sciatic band of, 606 sartorial, 197 solar, 514 spermatic, 484, 516 venous, 410, 503, 542 subtrapezial, 45 superior mesenteric, 479, 481, 515 suprarenal, 515 uterine, 606, 648 venous, 647 vaginal, 629, 647, 648 venous, 647 vesical, 608 venous, 602. See Bell’s muscle Plica vesicalis transversa, 513 PlicEC circulares, intestinal, 486, 488 palmatte uteri, 648 umbicales, 421 Pons hepatis, 522 Popliteal fossa, 234 boundaries, 235, 237 contents, 235, 236 fascia, 236 floor, 239 in section, 239 surface anatomy, 235 Porta hepatis, 443, 445, 447, 498, 505, 519, 520, 522 Portal canal, 522 Pouch of Douglas, 457, 623 recto-genital, 559, 584, 5S7 recto-vaginal, 645 recto-vesical, 457 Pouch, lateral pelvic, 457 utero-vesical, 457, 623 Pneputium clitoridis, 365 Prepuce, 417 Prevertebral plexuses, 476, 484, 515. 540, 550INDEX 669 Processus vaginalis, 40S, 409, 420, 423 Prostate, 364,567,56S, 575,593,609 capsule, 595 ‘ niiclclle lobe,’ 577, 596, 611 position, 594 sheath, 594 Prostatic ducts, 575 plexus. See Pudental venous, 417 sinus, 575 Pudendal band of sacral plexus, 565 cleft, 365 Pyloric canal, 468, 509 orifice, 509 plexus, 515 valve, 437, 509 vestibule, 468 Pylorus, 434, 466, 498, 501 position of, 469, 470 retro-colic, 489 sphincteric ring, 510 sulcus, intermedius, 468 Quadrate lobe of liver, 498, 520 Quadrilateral space of shoulder, 51, 55 Rami communicantes, 550 grey, 55G white, 550 Rectal channel, 532 Rectal triangle. See Anal, 369 Recto-genital jx)uch, 559, 584, 587 Recto-vaginal pouch, 645 Recto-vesical pouch, 584 Rectum, 440, 556, 582, 620 ampulla recti, 584 columns, 602, 610 flexures, 584 interior, 610 lymphatics, 603 jieritoneal relations of, 584 plicce tran.sversales recti, 584, 610 structure, 609, 649 valves, 610 Regions, anterior crural, 259 anterior of knee, 168 anterior of thigh, 166 epigastric, 431 glutseal, 215 medial of thigh, 166 hypochondriac, 431 hypogastric, 431 iliac, 431 inguinal, 166 Regions - lateral crural, 273 lateral of thigh, 168 lumbar, 431 medial crural, 275 femoral, 166 posteria crural, 276 subinguinal, 166 trochanteric, 167 umbilical, 431 Renal plexus, 484, 575 Rete testis, 414, 515 Retinacula of hip-joint, 256 of ileo-caecal valve, 490 Retro-colic fosste, 474, 489 Retro-pubic pad, 587, 588, 631 Retzius, cave of, 561, 570, 587, 624, 626, 631 Rima pudendi, 365 Ring, abdominal inguinal, 402, 404, 410, 420, 422, 424, 639 femoral, 185, 424, 425 subcutaneous inguinal, 174 Rosenmiiller, organ of, 644 Sac, vulvo-scrotal, 365 Sacro-coccygeal plexus, 598, 605, 608, 649 Sacro-genital fold, 457, 557, 596, 591 Sacro-pudendal plexus, 598, 600, 605, 609 Sacro-sciatic foramen, great, 617, small, 617 Santorini, duct of, 503 Sartorial plexus, 197 Scapula, arterial anastomosis around, 64 . Scapular region. See .Shoulder, 48 .Sciatic band of sacral plexus, 608 hernia, 581 Scrotum, 406 Semilunar cartilages. See Menisci, 320 fold of Douglas. See Linea senii- circularis, 399 ganglion. See Ca'liac, 460, 514, 543 .Seminiferous tubules, 415 Septa, intermuscular, of arm, 71 ofleg,262,279 of sole, 292 of thigh, 178, 201 peroneal, 262 Septum femorale, 185, 425 pectiniforme, 579670 INDEX Sheath, axillary, 15, 19, 23 femoral, 1S2, 3S9, 402 of flexor tendons, of fool, 292, 294, 299 of hand, 222, 131 of prostate, 594 of rectus abdominis, 398, 399 Seminal Vesicles. See Vesiculaa Seminales Shoulder, 48 cutaneous nerves, 48 fascia, 50 intermuscular spaces, 51 joints and ligaments, 88, 94 muscles, 50, 52, 56, 58, 59 parts beneath deltoid, 52 surface anatomy, 2, 4 Sinus of kidney, 528, 532, 542 lactiferi, 9 pocularis, 576. See Utriculus prostaticus of portal vein, 523 prostatic, 575 of rectum, 610 Skene’s tubules, 634 Solar plexus. See Cadiac plexus Sole of foot, 289 cutaneous nerves, 296, 298 fascia, 289, 291 first layer of muscles, 293 fourth layer of muscles, 306 intermuscular septa, 292 second layer of muscles, 29S third layer of muscles, 301 Solitary glands, 487 Solitary lymph nodules, 487, 4S8, 494 Spermatic cord, 386, 3S9, 392, 404, 407 parts of, 409 plexus, 484, 516 venous, 410, 503, 542 Spigelian lobe of liver. See Caudale lobe Spleen, 435 467, 511, 526, 530 left colic flexure, 436, 495, 513 lienal plexus, 515 structure of, 513 variations in shape, 513 Stomach, 434, 464, 530 blood-vessels, 464 l)ody, 468 cardiac opening, position of, 470 cardiac part, 465 fundus, 434, 465, 468, great curvature, 434, 467 Stomach— incisura angularis, 468 position, 465, 468 pyloric part, 434, 466 small curvature, 434, 467 structure, 506 Stomach-bed, 435, 467, 501 Subacromial bursa, 52 Subcostal plane, 432, Subscapular bursa, 91 Sulcus, glutteal, 216 Superficial fascia. See I’anniculus adiposus .Supraclavicular nerves, 5 Suprarenal glands, 450, 460, 467, 501, 503, 514, 524, 525, 528, 529, 530, 543 plexus, 515 Surface anatomy, abdomen, 376, 430 lower extremity, 166, 188, 216, 218, 235, 257 upper extremity, 2, 35, 62, iii, ■Surgical anatomy of psoas fascia, 548 Sympathetic cord, 47S, soo, S39> 540, 549, 550, 597, 59S, 601, 649 grey rami communicantes, 609 Sympathetic ganglia, 550, 608, 609 plexuses, 514 rami communicantes, 550, 60S, 609 Sympathetic nerves to testis, 410 cavernous nerves to penis, 609 to levator ani, 609 to prostate, 609 to rectum, 59S .Symphysis pubis, 340 Symphysis ossium pubis, 618, 629, 650 anterior pulric ligament, 61S arcuate pubic ligament, 618 posterior pubic ligament, 618 superior pubic ligament, 618 Ttenia coli libera, 438, 493, 495 meso-colica, 43S, 493. 495 omentalis, 438, 493, 495 Txnite coli, 43S, 493 Tarso-metatarsal articular surfaces, 337 Tendo calcaneus, 2S0, 281 Tendon, conjoined. Sec Falx in- guinalis671 INDEX Tendons, extensor, of the fingers, 145 Testis, 393, 411 body, 412 descent, 40S epididymis, 413 gubernaculum, 409 lobules of, 415 structure, 414 Thenar eminence, 111 Thigh, 166 adductor muscles, 205 anterior aspect, 166 cutaneous nerves, 197, 218, 227, 240, 246 external rotator muscles, 230, 232, 234 fascia, 169, 177, 178, 183, 199, 221, 236, 246 hamstring muscles, 246 intermuscular septa, 179, 201 medial aspect, 204 osteo-fascial compartments, 193 posterior aspect, 245 Scarpa’s triangle, 188 superficial veins, 174 surface anatomy, 166, 235 Thoracic duct. See Cisterna chyli, 541 Thyroid membrane, 612, 618. See Obturator membrane Toes, flexor sheaths, 299 Torus uterinus, 623 vesicalis, 573 Tract, ilio-tibial, 168, 177, 199 pudendal, of sacral plexus, 606 sciatic, of sacral plexus, 606 Triangle, anal, 341, 369 of base of bladder, 573, 597 deltopecloral. See Infraclavicular fossa of Ilesselbach, 403, 404 lumbar, 418 perineal, 356, 371 of Scarpa. See Trigonum femorale urogenital pouches of, 341, 343 352 Triangular fibro-cartilage of wrist. See Discus articularis, 156 space at elbow, 81 space of shoulder, 52 Trigone of bladder, 572 Trigonum femorale, 188 Trigonum Petiti. See Lumbale, 418 Tube, Fallopian. See Uterine ■ tubes, 598, 621, 643, 646, I 647 ! Tuber omentale, 467, 520 I Tubules, seminiferous, 425 ' Skene’s, 634 i Tunic, abdominal, 3S0 Tunica albuginea, 414 vaginalis, 392, 407, 411 development, 408 vasculosa testis, 414 Umbilical fissure, 443 folds, 421 hernia, 426 notch of liver, 443 region, 430 zone, 430 Umbilicus, 377, 399, 426, 506 Upper extremity, parts of, i surface anatomy, 2 Urachus, 421, 426, 561, 587, 590, 611, 631 Ureter, 474, 476, 478, 534, 557, 562, 573> 592, 593. 597. 624, 625, 633, 634 female, 635, 641, 644, 646 Ureteral orifices of bladder, 573 Urethra, 574 aperture in inferior fascia of the urogenital diaphragm for, 35S. 374 bulb of, 586 corpus cavernosum of, 575, 577 direction of canal, 575, 57^ external orifice, 367 female, 367, 374, 634 membranous, 351, 359, 360, 575, 586 mucous membrane, 575, 577, 57^ prostatic, 575 Urethral orifice of bladder, 570‘57U 588, 611, 632 Urogenital fissure, 3C5, 369 diaphragm, 341, 343, 347. 349. Uterine plexus, 648 venous, 647 Uterine tubes, 598, 621, 643 646, 647 ampulla, 643 limbrim, 643 fimbria ovarica, 643 infundibulum, 643 isthmus, 643INDEX 672 Uterine Tubes— ostium abdominale, 643 structure of, 649 Utero-sacral fold, 623 Uterus, 440, 636 body, 636 broad ligaments, 440 cavum, 637 cervix, 637 external os, 637 internal os, 637 isthmus, 637, 646 portio vaginalis, 637 supra-vaginalis, 637 position, 63S, 639 round ligament, 637 structure, 648 wall, 648 Uterus masculinus, 576 Utriculus prostaticus, 576 Uvula vesicEe, 573 Vagina, 367, 374, 624, 625, 629, 635, 641 coats of, C49 columnse rugarum, 649 relations of, 642 Vaginal orifice, 642 plexus, 629, 647 Valve of Heister, 444 ileo-CEecal, 490 pyloric, 437, 509 Valves, anal, 610 See Plicre transversalcs recti, 580, 610 Valvulm conniventes. See Plica: circulares Valvula pylori, 437 Vasa efferentia, 413 Vater, ampulla of, 503 Vein or Veins, axillary, 26 ascending lumbar, 347, 331; 339. 540. 547 basilic, 73 cephalic, 11, 16, 69 circumflex iliac, deep, 545 coronary, of stomach, 460, 462, 506 cystic, 463, 505, 506 dorsal, of clitoris, 374, 376, 628, • 647 of penis, 359, 417, 595, 602 epigastric, inferior, 393, 402 femoral, 191, 196 hxmorrhoidal, 593 inferior, 603 Vein or Veins— middle, 603 superior, 603 hemiazygos, 539, 547 hepatic, 516, 523 iliac, common, 476, 543, 544, 546, 602 external, 545, 546, 598 hypogastric, 545, 546, 562, 593, 598, 603, 625, 647 ilio-lumbar, 545, 602 lateral sacral, 601 lumbar, 543, 550, 555 ascending, 555 median, of the forearm, 69 median-basilic, 69 median-cephalic, 169 mesenteric, inferior, 478,484, 503, 583 superior, 463, 476, 479, 481, 505. 506 obturator, 562, 593 ovarian, 542, 647 pampiniform, 410 pancreatico-duodenal, 463 para-umbilical, 506 pars-intermedia, 372, 373 of pelvis, 602 phrenic, 541 popliteal, 243, 245 portal, 445, 447, 462, 463, 481, 501, 504, 505, 523, 543 profunda, 69 pudendal, 567, 570, 595, 603 radial, 98 renal, 499, 500, 540, 542 right gastro-epiploic, 463 gastric, 506 sacral, middle, 545, 602 saphena magna, 174, 176, 259, 27s, 276 saphena parva, 236, 259, 277 spermatic, 410, 503, 542 splenic, 478, 503, 505, 540 superficial, of arm, 69 of elbow, 69 of foot, 294 of forearm, 94 of leg, 243, 258, 259 of lower limb, 176, 243 suprarenal, 525, 528, 530, 541 thoraco-acromial, 25 ulnar, 105 umbilical, 377, 426, 506, 59S uterine, 647673 INDEX Vein or Veins^ ■ vaginal, 647 vesical, 562 Vena cava inferior, 474, 476, 499, 505. 543. 550 fossa for, 489, 51S, 519, 521, 522 Vena-caval opening of diaphragm, . 538 Vermiform process, 439, 4S9 structure of, 494 valve of, 491 \’erumontanum, 576 \''esical plexus, 60S venous, 602 Vesiculx seminales, 556, 567, 568, 587. 593. 596, 597 excretory duct of, 597 Vesicular appendix, 645 Vestibular glands, 368, 375 Vestibule, bulb of, 364 of vulva, 367, 374 Villi intestinales, 486, 487 Vincula accessoria, 125 brevia, 125 longa, 125 Vulva, 364 Vulvo-scrotal sacs, 369 White line of pelvis, 604 Whitlow, 131 Winslow, foramen of. See Foramen epiploicum Wirsung, duct of, 503 Wrist, no, 142, 143, 144 annular ligaments, no, 112, 116, 120, 122, 142 anterior aspect, no, 142 discus articularis, 156 dorsum, 143, 144 joint, 152 lig. carpi volare, 116, 122 Zone, costal, 430 hypogastric, 430 umbilical, 430 THE END Printed hy R. S; R. Ci.ark, I.imited, F.di>ihurf;h.The Oxford Medical Publications A SELECTION OF BOOKS SUITABLE FOR STUDENTS HENRY FROWDE Oxford Universitv Press HODDER & STOUGHTON Warwick Square, E.C.THE OXFORD XIEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 9 CHEMISTRY and PHySICS. I. AN INTRODUCTION TO PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY. By A. M. Kellas, B.Sc., Ph.D., Lecturer on Chemistry at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School; Formerly Examiner in Chemistry to the Conjoint Board. Svo. ht waterproof cover. Fp.262. figures. Just Published. Price 3s. 6d. net. Specially adapted to meet the requirements of the Conjoint Boards Examination of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, but suitable also for general use in Schools and for Private Students. “An eminently useful work, and one which is likely to he of practical service in assisting students to learn their chemistry for examination purposes.”-—The Hospital. By the same Author. II. A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. Including Preparations and Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis, and the Rudiments of Gas Analysis. Zvo. Itt waterproof cover. 347. figures. Just Published. Price 5s. net. This work is specially adapted to cover Preliminary and University Classes, and the first three stages of the Syllabus of the Board of Education.3 THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS CHEMISTRY and PHYSICS. III. AN INTRODUCTION TO PRACTICAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. By A. M. Kellas, B.Sc.(Lond.), Ph.D., Lecturer on Chemistry at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School ; Formerly Examiner in Chemistry to the Conjoint Board. Svo. 1)1 waterproof cove?'. Pp. igg. '^o figures. Just Published. • Price 3s. 6d. net. This work includes Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis and Preparations, it has a special appendix on the London University Syllabus, and schemes of analysis for Stages I. and 11. of the Board of Education Syllabus. To be published this year by the same Author. GENERAL THEORETICAL OUTLINES OF INORGANIC AND ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. P)-obably ready in the Autumn.THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 4. BIOLOGY and ZOOLOGY. “OXFORD STUDENTS SERIES.” OUTLINES of ZOOLOGY. By J. Arthur Thomson, M.A., Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. A NEW EDITION. Croimi 8vo, clotli^pp. .r.v, 856, with 378 ilhistrafio?ts in the text. New Fifth Editioji, revised and enla7-ged. Just Published. Price I2S. 6d. net. It is to be noted that although this well-known work contains more than is required in the ordinary courses of Biology, it contains a full and most readable account of all the types of animal life used in such courses. “ All parts of the book are of great merit.”—B/dtish Medical Journal. “Though our author, to use an American term, ‘enthuses’ his readers, he does not waste words over it.”—Nature.5 THE OXFORD MEDICAL I’UHLICATIONS ANATOMY. “OXFORD STUDENTS SERIES.” CUNNINGHAM’S MANUAL OF PRACTICAL ANATOMY. By the late D. J. Cunningham, M.D., D.C.L.(Oxon.), F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. Just revised by P7'ofessor Arthur Robinson, with nia?iy tiew and additional colour illustratiotis. In Two Volumes. Crown Zvo, cloth. VOLUME I. UPPER AND LOWER LIMB, ABDOMEN. VOLUME II. THORAX, HE.AD AND NECK. Illustrated with 573 engravings, matty in colours. Price los. 6d. each net. The Publishers desire to call attention to this work, for many years undoubtedly the most popular among students. Owing to the death of Professor Cunningham, Professor Arthur Robinson, his successor in the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edin- burgh, has undertaken the editing of the work in future. The present revision by Professor Arthur Robinson has just been brought out; in this he has entirely re-written the dissection of the pelvis, taking it from a more simple and practical method, while the opportunity has been taken to add some colour illus- trations throughout the volumes where the addition seemed to be of practical value. “ We can hardly call to mind any textbook which has been and will con- tinue to be of such practical assistance to a very large miinher of medical .students.”—Lancet. ''Stands unrivalled as a Handbook of Human Anatomy adapted both for dissecting-room work and for home reading. British Medual Join nal.THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 6 ANATOMY. A Systematic Treatise on the Subject. CUNNINGHAM’S TEXTBOOK OF ANATOMY. NEW EDITION. Edited by the late D. J. Cunningham, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy, University of Edinburgh. Third and Revised Edition. Just Published. The Articles in the Third Edition are contributed by : Professor A. H. Young (late of Manchester) ; Professor Arthur Robinson (Edinburgh); Professor Arthur Thomson (Oxford); Professor D. H. Hepburn (Cardiff); Harold J. Stiles, F.R.C.S. (Edinburgh); Professor A. M. Paterson (Liverpool); Professor R. Howden (Newcastle); The late Professor A. Birmingham (Dublin); Professor A. F. Dixon (Dublin); and The Editor. In One Volume. Royal 8z^c>, cloth^ -pp. xxxvi., 13SS) vjith 936 engravings from the original df-aioings, 7nany in colours. Price 31S, 6d. net. The work is also published in four parts at the same price, as follows : Part I. EMBRYOLOGY, BONES and JOINTS. 6s. net. Part II. MUSCLES. NEKYOUS SYSTEM. SPECIAL SENSE ORGANS. 9s. net. Part III. YASCULAR, RESPIRATORY, and DIGESTIYE SYSTEMS. 9s. net. Part IY. URINOGENITAL SYSTEM. SURFACE and SURGICAL ANATOMY. 7s. 6d. net. “ \Ye do not know any te.xtbook of anatomy which is better adapted to meet the needs of students and practitioners of medicine and surgery.”— British Medical Journal. “ There is no better manual on the subject in any language.”—Times. Professor ARTHUR ROBINSON, Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, will in future editions act as the Editor of this work.THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 7 PHYSIOLOGY. A GREAT WORK ON PHYSIOLOGY. A TEXTBOOK OF PHYSIOLOGY BY BRITISH PHYSIOLOGISTS. Edited by E. A. Schafer, F.R.S., Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh. T^vo Volumes. Vol. /., Royal %vo., cloth, pp. xx, 1036, with 3 plates attd 93 illustrations in the text. Price 31S. 6d. Vol. II., pp. xxiv, 1365, with 499 illustrations hi the text. Price 42s. The list of Contributors is as follows :— The late Professor Sir J. S. Burdon-Sanderson, F.R.S. ; Professor Arthur Gamg'ee, F.R.S. (Manchester); Dr. Gaskell, F.R.S. (Cambridge); Professor Gotch, F.R.S. (Oxford); Professor Sherrington, F.R.S. (Liverpool); Professor M‘Kendrick, F.R.S. (Glasgow); Professor Halliburton, F.R.S. (King’s College); Professor Haycraft, F.R.S.E. (Cardiff); Professor Starling, F.R.S. (University College) ; Professor J. N. Langley, F.R.S. (Cambridge); M. S. Pembrey, M.D.Oxon. (Guy’s); W. H. R. Rivers, M.D., F.R.C.P. (Cambridge); Professor Waymouth Reid (Dundee) ; B. Moore (Charing Cross); F. G. Hopkins, F.R.S. (Cambridge); Professor Leonard Hill, F.R.S. (University); J. S. Edkins (St. Bartholomew’s) ; A. A. Gray (Glasgow); Professor Noel Paton, F.R.S. (Glasgow); and The Editor (Edinburgh).s THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS SURGERY. “OXFORD STUDENTS SERIES.” A MANUAL OF SURGERY. By Alexis Thomson, M.D., F.R.C.S.(Edin.), Professor of Clinical Surgery to the University of Edinburgh ; Surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; AND Alexander Miles, M.D., F.R.C.S.(Edin.), Surgeon, Edinburgh Royal Infirmary ; Surgeon to the Leith Hospital. Two Volumes. Crow7t 87/t?, cloth. Price los. 6d. each net. New Editio7i, revised a7id e7ilarged, of both Volu77tes. Volu77ie I. Third a7id New Editio7t. Just Published. GENERAL SURGERY, pp. xxiv, 846, with 339 illust7-atio7is in the text. Volu77ie II. Third a7id New Editio7i. Jttst Published. REGIONAL SURGERY,pp. xiv, 862, with 227 ilb/strations i7i the text. REVIEWS OF THE SECOND EDITION. “We think it the most useful surgical textbook for students we have recently seen.”—Bristol Mcdico-Chirurgical Journal. “ It is one of the best, if not the best, of the many textbooks of surgery for students to read.”—Binninghani Medical Review. “For all ordinary' purposes the most systematic English textbook on general surgery.”—Scottish MedicalJourmal. “ It is one of the most reliable and readable books the student or general practitioner could possess.”—Dublin Journal of Medical Science. “The teaching throughout is in complete accord with the late.st developments of surgical work.”—British Medical Journal. EARLY REVIEW OF THE THIRD EDITION JUST PUBLISHED. “ A more valuable work than the second edition, admirable though the latter was. I'o epitomize our criticism : It is a good general textbook, as full as it can reasonably be expected to be, up to date, concise and clear, accurate in its teaching, and, as such books ought to be, dogmatic. It is a book which deserves to be on the practitioner’s shelves, for it is one 0/ the best conaensaiions of modern surgical theofy and Jracticc ivith which we are acijuaintcd."—'fhe Hospital.9 THP: OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS OPERATIVE SURGERY. “OXFORD STUDENTS SERIES.” MANUAL OF OPERATIVE SURGERY. NEW EDITION. By H. J. Waring, M.S., B.Sc., F.R.C.S., Surgeon, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital ; Consulting Surgeon to the Metro- politan Hospital, London ; Member of Board of Examiners, Royal College of Surgeons, England and University of London. Crown %vo, cloth, pp. xxxi, 736, ^vith 521 illustratio7is in the text, includitig 30 illustrations m colours. Third Edition. Just Published. Price 12s. 6d. net. Thoroughly revised, extended, and b7'ought up to date. “ Admirably serves the purpose for which it has been written.”— Liverpool Medico-Chirtirgical Joimial. “.A. well-written, convenient, and useful work.”—Medical Chro7iicle. “Mr. Waring has, by careful revision of the original issue, and by the addition with the help of colleagues of many new sections, successfully maintained the practical utility of the work.”—British MedicalJour)ial. “ Well-nigh ideal . . . the book is one to be cordially recommended.’ St. Thomas's Hospital Gazette. For Senior Students who require fuller informa- tion on the subject the Publishers suggest the consideration of the volumes of “ A System of Operative Surgery,” edited by F. F. Burghard, and written by admitted authorities in English Surgery. A full account of this can be obtained on application.10 THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS MEDICINE. A TEXTBOOK OF MEDICINE. BY BRITISH TEACHERS. Edited by G. A. Gibson, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.C.P.(Edin.) Two Volumes. Royal 8z/<7, extra cloth, pp. xxiv, 824, andxx, 910, with 122 illustratio?is. Price 15s. net. The list of Contributors is as follows :— J. O. Affleck, F.R.C.P. The late Henry Ashby, F.R.C.P. A. G. Auld. John Rose Bradford, M.D., F.R.S. Alexander Bruce, F.R.C.P.E. J. Mitchell Bruce, F.R.C.P. Sir Lauder Brunton, M. D., F.R.S. W. S. Colman, F.R.C.P. G. A. Gibson, F.R.C.P.E. A. LockhartGillespie,F.R.C.P.E. Sir William Gowers, M.D., F.R.S. V. D. Harris, F.R.C.P. Herbert P. Hawkins, F.R.C.P. W. Allan Jamieson, F.R.C.P. The late A. A. Kanthack, F.R.C.P. Claude B. Ker, F.R.C.P.E. T. W. P. Lawrence, F.R.C.S. A. P. Luff, F.R.C.P. Hector Mackenzie, F.R.C.P. Sir Patrick Manson, M.D., F.R.S. Sidney Martin, M.D., F.R.S. Sir John William Moore, F.R.C.P.E F. W. Mott, M.D., F.R.S. Thomas Oliver. W. Pasteur, F.R.C.P. R. W. Phillip, F.R.C.P. S. Risien Russell, F.R.C.P. William Russell, F.R.C.P.E. Ralph Stockman, F.R.C.P.E. Frederick Taylor, F.R.C.P. James Taylor, F.R.C.P. W. Aldren Turner, F.R.C.P. W. Hale White, F.R.C.P. R. T. Williamson, F.R.C.P. G. E. Cartwright Wood, M.D. Professor G. Sims Woodhead, F.R.C.P.E.THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS 11 MIDWIFERY. PRACTICAL OBSTETRICS. By Ernest Hastings Tweedy, F.R.C.P.I., Master of the Rotunda Hospital (Dublin); President, Section of Obstetrics British Medical Association, 1907 ; and G. T. Wrench, M.D., Late Assistant ^Master. Demy Zvo. 167 original illustratio7is. Special Prospectus on application. Second Editioti. Price 12s. 6d. net. Just Published. “Any one who begins this book because he ought to, will finish it because he likes it. It is clear, practical, and delightfully u-rilten, and it i.s a wholly creditable fulfilment of its aim as an exposition of ‘ Rotunda Practical Midwifery.’ ”—Medical Chronicle. “The wonderful material afforded by the Rotunda Hospital Practice forms quite a unique basis for work such as this, and when interpreted for us by such authorities as the writers of the present volume it affords a book of exceptional value and striking suggestiveness—full of sage advice and practical acute observation."—Edinburgh Medical Journal. “ One of the best discussions^ if not actually the best discussion in the English language y of the practical aspects of Obstetrics. A book of this sort will for obvious reasons prove of incalculable ■ value to the student. But the reading of these short precise Sentences, pregnant with u.seful and valuable advice, will also afford much pleasure to the practitioner who wishes to refresh his memory, or to acquaint himself with the most appropriate methods of dealing with normal and complicated labour.”— interstate Medical Journal^ Ne^v York. A MANUAL OF OBSTETRICS. By Herbert Williamson, M.D., M.R.C.P., Assistant Obstetric Physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and Physician to the City of London Lying-In Hospital ; AND Eardley Holland, M.D., F.R.C.S., Assistant Physician to the Metropolitan Hospital, and to the City of London Lying-In Hospital ; Obstetric Tutor to King’s College Hospital. One of the “Oxford Students Series is in active preparationJ’lIE OXFORD MEDICAL PURLICATIONS 12 PATHOLOGY. PRACTICAL PATHOLOGY. A MANUAL FOR STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. By G. Sims Woodhead, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Pathology, University of Cambridge. Fourth Edition^ enlarged aiid revised. Medium Zvo. Illust7'ated by 275 inicroscopical drawings in colour in the text. Price 31S. 6d. net. Just Published. THE FIRST EDITION. “ It cannot often be said in these days of literary activity that a book meets a distinct want, that it opens up new ground, and that it is sure to be largely in request. All these things are perfectly true of the admirable and handsome volume before us. It is literally the first thorough attempt to deal freely with the subject of Practical Pathology*, and in mariner and scope of treatment it stands alone.*'—Lancet. PRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGY. By J. George Adami, M.D.(Cantab.), F.R.S., Professor of Pathology, McGill University, Montreal. IN TWO VOLUMES. VoL. I. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. Second Edition. Just Published. Voi.. II. SYSTEMIC PATHOLOGY. Recently Published. Volume I. Royal 8z/r?, 948 pages, ivith 322 illustrations atui 16 plates. Second Edition. Price 30s. net. /ust Published. “ We have read this volume with great intere.st, for it is catholic in its range and critical in its presentation of the many ve.ved problems in Pathology. It is the most considerable work on general pathology which h.as appeared in English within recent years.”—Lancet. Volume II. Royal Zvo, 1082 pages, with 310 illustrations and 15 plates. Price 30s. net. Recently Published.THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS BACTERIOLOGY. “OXFORD STUDENTS SERIES.” A MANUAL of BACTERIOLOGY. By Robert Muir, M.D., F.R.C.P.(Edin.), Professor of Pathology, University of Glasgow ; and James Ritchie, M.D., B.Sc., Superintendent, Research Laboratory, R.C.P., Edinburgh ; formerly Professor of Pathology, University of Oxford. Crown %vo. With nearly 200 illustrations in the text, and 25 figures in colour. A new Fifth Edition, thoroughly revised and brought up to date. Price los. 6d. net. Just Ready. “ Established for so many years as the chief English Textbook on Bacteriology for the Medical Student and Practitioner. ... It would be difficult to find a work which so completely fulfils its purpose.”—Lancet. “ The book is thoroughly good, and forms one of the best students’ textbooks on bacteriology which have been published.”—British Medical Joxtrnal. “ The setting of this manual is beyond all praise ; the book is of handy size, beautifully printed on fine paper and neatly bound.”—Dublin Jow-nal of Medical .Science. A LABORATORY HANDBOOK OF BACTERIOLOGY. By Dr. Rudolf Abel, Medical Privy Councillor, Berlin. Translated by M. H. Gordon, M.A., D.M.(Oxon.), B.Sc., Assistant Pathologist to St. Bartholomew s Hospital. Tenth {German) Edition. Fcap. Zvo. Price 5s. net. “Justifies the claim advanced in his preface-to be S''-’-'*’'. forward only reliable and fully proved methods of examination «Inch are as simple as possible to undertake and to put into practice. ... . , , , . t „i, ..„,i “The book is bound in oilcloth so as to resist the d.angers of the laboratorj bench, and it is well printed and practically free from errors. ■ • • _ “There is no doubt that this volume will be found in all useful and accurate information.”—Lancet. .,i r i •. .1 " “We can assure the intending purchaser that he will find it thorouglilj reliable. . British Medical Journal. laboratories, as it is full of14 THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS , ,, FROM THE “OXFORD MEDICAL MANUALS SERIES.” Special Subjects suitable for Students. ANAESTHETICS. ‘ ‘ Those who desire a concise and vejy practical little handbook cannot do , better than obtain itT—Hospital. PRACTICAL ANtLSTHETICS. By H. Edmund G. Boyle, M.R.C.S., Assistant Aneesthetist to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and Demonstrator of Anaesthetics in the Medical School. Pp. 178. \\ plates., \\ figures, llhistrated. Price5s.net. “ This little work forms no exception to an excellent series of handbooks. The ^aroduction is very^good and the matter to the point and eminently practical.”—Edinburgh Medical Journal. “As a rule it is better for the student to avoid the larger books on Ancesthetics until he has studied the subject practically, but this book is pre-eminently one that he should buy and read carefully.”—-St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital Journal. “ We advise all who either have to administer antesthetics or who hope to do so, to purchase this little book, as it will give them many useful hints on the subject.”—Medical Press. THE EYE. DISEASES OE THE EYE. A MANUAL OF ESSENTIAL F.ACTS FOR STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. By M. Stephen Mayou, F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon, Central London Opthalmic Hospital, etc. Crown %vo. Pp. 388. With 119 original illustrations and 8 colour plates. Price 5s. net. “The book contains sound teaching, which is presented in a manner based upon the best foundations.”—Lancet. “A downright straightforward attempt to place the essentials of Ophthalmology before the student and practitioner.”—Ophthalmoscope.15 THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS FROM THE “OXFORD MEDICAL MANUALS SERIES.” Special Subjects saitable for Students. THE EAR. ..DISEASES OE THE EAR. By F. Hunter Tod, M.D.(Cantab.), F.R.C.S., Aural Surgeon to the London Hospital. Z’/. 317. \Z fiiU-sise plates, figures. Second Impression. Illustrated. Price 5s. net. “ We consider that this work is one well adapted to supply the needs of the student, and as a handbook of reference for the general practitioner.” —Lancet. “ Will certainly take its place among the very best and most up-to-date works on the subject.”—Journal of Laryngology. - “ Like most of the other %’olumes in this excellent series, an admirable book, both for the practitioner and the student. It is short, to the point, and clear.”—Hospital. THE NOSE AND THROAT. DISEASES OE THE NOSE. By E. B. Waggett, M.B.(Cantab.), Surgeon for the Throat and Ear Department of Charing Cross Hospital ; Surgeon, London Throat Hospital ; and Throat and Ear Departmeni, Great Northern Hospital. Pp. 282. Illustrated by 3 plates, 89 figures, all of which are original. .Second Impres.uon. Price 5s. net. “The book is short, concise, and, above all, readable. The illustrations are original, and are very good.”—St. Hartholonicztl s Hospital Journal. “Mr. Waggett has written an eminently readable book, which is no mean feat. . . . Will be of genuine v.alue fo the bu.sy practitioner, and we cordially recommend it to \\\vc\i"-^LMncet. “The illustrations are original, clear, .and to the point; the book is one which can be safely recommended to all tho.se who wish to take a rapid survey of rhinology. ’—.Medical Chronicle. ,16 THE OXFORD MEDICAL PUBLICATIONS TWO MEDICAL CLASSICS FOR STUDENTS. “ Has a place in ihe small group of medical classics.”—S/. Bartholomew's Hospital Review. AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION WITH THE OTHER METHODS OF PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST. By Samuel Jones Gee, M.D., F.R.C.P. Honorary Physician to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales; Consulting Physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, etc. Sixth Edition. Pp. 327. Price 5s. net. Prospectus on application. “As well worth reading through now as it was five years ago.”—British Medical Journal. “ It will remain at once the standard authority in the sphere in which it deals, and a striking illustration of the methods of a distinguished teacher of Clinical Medicine.”-—Lancet. “A book which eveiy senior student should procure and keep with him tluvughout his professional career."—'fhc Hospital. “ The classics of medicine are not many, and this is one of them."— Edinburgh Medical fournal. MEDICAL LECTURES AND CLINICAL APHORISMS. By Samuel Jones Gee, M.D., F.R.C.P. Plonorary Physician to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales : Consulting Physician to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, etc. Third Edition. Pp. yi-j. Price 5s. net. “ Take it up and read it, and the odds are that you will not have laid it down, if you have any soul for such things, till you have come to the Index, and then only will you desist because, alas ! there js nothing more to read. ” —Guy’s Hospital Gazette. “We believe that many of them will live to be quoted hereafter by reason of their truth and racy terseness—when most of the set lectures of the present day shall have sunk into oblivion.”—British Medical Journal.j I imtiv p* t < f