24 DOMESTIC COOKER! '■idlest and largest, but in small families, and to some Pastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The filet of the cow-calf is generally pre- ferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Chose the meat of which the kid- ney is well covered Avith thick white fat If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour sheAvs it stale. The other parts should be dry and Avhite ; if clammy or spot- ted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain ; good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young ; if of a good breed and Avell fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether-mut- ton : the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is Arery strong-flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter: if the vein is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yelloAv cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May and con- tinues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in the highest perfection in December and January. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it Avill break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh Avill be smooth and cool ; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very umvholesome; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, Avhich in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not ansAver for