( XX ) Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a very good joint, and by many prefered to the leg; it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The figure repesents it as laid in the dish with its back uppermost. When it ia first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, h, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut out on each side the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines, is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and can- not be cut across. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the broadest part as at a. The best part is in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and farther end. Begin to help chere, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to /. This part is the most juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which, in fine mutton, will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back cf the leg ; turn it up, and cut the broad end ; not in the direction you did the other side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold off the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at d; then pass the knife under the cramp-bone on the direction, d, rj. Afore Quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder from the sccven (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in the direction of a, b, c. d, in the figure opposite the Jast page ; keeping it towards you horizontally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the Juice of half a Seville orange (or lemon) on the ether part, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the