( xiii ) and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to take care of glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for old flint glass.—Those who wish for trifle dishes, butter-stands, c . at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made n moulds, of which there is a great variety that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beautiful articles. • The price of starch depends upon that of flour; the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years; therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give; they are bet- ,er for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper improves by keeping, and if bought by half or whole reams will be much cheaper than if purchased by the quire. The surprising increase of the price of this article may be accounted for by the additional duties, and a larger consumption, besides the monopoly of rags ; of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if C