( xv ; something dearer than the hard, reduces the price of wash- ing considerably. Manv good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the ope- ration with less friction. Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square w’hen first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks; for it it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third ir. the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should be halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had ; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. When wnites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c. to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, 01 they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &c. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least defect ap pears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, &c. in them, 01 any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be pro- vided for those purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp soon rust, which causes holes.