( XIV ) an order were given to a servant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity; and many fami- lies, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical:— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz.— Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be ex- cluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place; so does salt.—Candles cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, hams, &c. the same.—All sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop/rice, &c. should be closely covered to preserve from insects; but that will not prevent it, iflongkept. Bread is now so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. Since the scarcity in 1795- and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a mustyr taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered ; but with discretion, as they are very pungent. The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use; and they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler; and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity; and though