(, XX1U ) joint; which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back, then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knile between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate: then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, which with the legs are the prime. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly; but before it is served, the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on ycur plate ; and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to b, in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife ; and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone ; then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the four quarters are thus removed, take off the merrythought from a and the neck-bones ; these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, b, then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast right down to the tail. Then lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone half-way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and very neatly take off the twc sidesmen, and the whole will be done. As each part is taken oft, it should .be turned neatly on the dish : and care should be taken that what is left goes properly from table.