DOMESTIC COOKERY. 66 To make Black Puddings. The blood must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits, to soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. In the meantime prepare the guts by washing, turning, and scraping with salt and water, and changing the water several times. Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, a good quantiy of penny-roval, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg : mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning ; when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill theskins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled, and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe, and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when used. Another mail.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and thyme ; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned tho- roughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the in- ward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another may.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into