( xxi ) gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c; and help either from that, or from the ribs, as may be chosen. Haunch of Venison.—Cut down to the bone in the line a, h, c, in the figure opposite the next page, to let out the gravj’: then turn the broad end of the haunch toward you, put in the knife at b, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch d; then help in thin slices, observing to give some fat to each peson. There is more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and d than on the other; and those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the number of the company. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be helped at table in the same manner. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. Ham may be cut three ways ; the common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to b, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at first; which is likewise accomplished by cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin circles ; this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucking Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. The first thing is, to separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg according to the direction given by the dotted line a, b, c. The ribs are then to be divide into about two helpings; and an ear or jaw presented with them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces mav be cut from them. The ribs are