(X) ■would not be felt, In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, and much time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken. If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful ■affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue ; and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not ■recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insufficient, if not seconded by those who are 1o execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or "-aste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master jt mistress, who know- ing, or having well-foundc1. suspicions of any such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity or entreaty, to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortu- nately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service : but