176 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Royal Paste, called. “ Au Choux.” This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry ; it is used to mix an infinite number of second course dishes of various forms, and of different denominations. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it, with a quar- ter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two « ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flour and shake through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boiling ; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan and then take it off the fire. Next break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix ; do not put more eggs than the paste can ab- sorb, but you must be careful not to make this prepara- tion too liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted foff the above quantity; then form them en clioux, by which is meant, in the shape of a ball, an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, put- ting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with the dorure or egg-wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be found to be useless: next dry them. Sometimes you may glaze them ; at other times you may send them up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of your knife, and take them off gently. Then make a small opening on the side, into which put, with a tea-spoon, such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson.