68 DOMESTIC COOKERY. little salt, and drain them another day ; pound an ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well; and rub them into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks ; if a large one, a week longer ; but do not rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed ; hang it as above ; if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind down- wards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle, the more the belter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burned, and turn it sometimes for ten days. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above: then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder: half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a halt of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way that gives it a high flavour.— When the weather will permit, hang the ham three days; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, anti pour them immediately upon the ham ; turn it twice r day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine pow- der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped, and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve : the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of West-