206' DOMESTIC COOKERY. be three parts cold; then pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form well oiled, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover ; but if, on trial, the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, -and return it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright ‘light gold- colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted; strain it; when cold take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put it to the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it be- gins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clear- ing of jelly : When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer ; then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutritious; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course, allow more water. Note : jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful