(viii) ■deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait tor their money injures them greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment, may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will be known with ease; for it is delay of payment that occasions confusion. A good common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful know- ledge, and other observations, as are given by sensible experi- enced people. Want of attention to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth bearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase as bargains what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other pur- poses. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, by assurances that they are advanc- ing in price; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that purchasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these more hereafter.