C XX!1 ) reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goose—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, b, c, in the figure opposite the last page ; and pour into the body a glass of port wine ; and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and if a young bird it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body; then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction d, e. Nothing but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side bones by the wing, which may be cut off; as likewise the back and lower side-bones: but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs after being divided from the drum-sticks. Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, in the figure opposite the next page, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the ether s'de, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which with tli2 legs is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off iu a cir- cular line, as c, d, a: lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them ; and then help the company, giving some pud- ding and gravy to every person. This way can only be prac- tised when the hare is young: if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm : but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the