(. xix) helping. Slice the inside likewise, and give with each piece some of the fat. The inside done as follows eats excellentlyHave ready some fine shalot vinegar boiling hot; mince <.he meat large, and a good deal of fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon, as quickly as possible on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all over When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as directed above for the Edge-bone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing; which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap which completely covers it; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. Breast of Veal.— One part (which is called the brisket) is thickest, and has gristles ; put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Calf’s Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if properly managed. Cut slices from a to 6, in the figure opposi.tr paye 22, letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c to d with the ether part. Many like the eye ; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicetv ; the lady of the house should be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them amona her auests.