305 DIUECTIONS TO SERVAKTS. To preserve Gildiiig a7id, Cleayi it. It IS not possible to prevent Hies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it • then with strips ot paper cover the frames of 3^our glasses, and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens it britrht- ness, it should theiefore never be used for wiping it Some means should be used to destroy the ke? as tliey injure furniture of every kind, and the paper like- wise. Bottles hung about with sugar and -vinecrar or beer, will attract them ; or Hy-water put into little%hells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. To Glean Paint. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with Uie bellows. With care, paint will look well for a leno-th of time. AVheii soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry imme- diately, or the strength of the soda will eat ofi'the colour AVhen wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean jiart as much as possible or marks wdll be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Paper llanginirs. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the cnist into your hand, and beginning at the top of the jiaper, wipe it down wards in the lightest manner with the crumb. Don’t cross nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not M-ipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginniim a little above where you left off If you don't do it ex- tremely lightly, you will make the dirt adhere to tluj- }»aper. It will look like new if properly done,.