234 DOMESTIC COOKERY, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry in- gredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter; mix hall a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the in- gredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan ; take a whitepaper, doubled and buttered, and putin the pan round the edge, if the cake batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Rout Drop Cakes. Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditta sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a stift’paste, with two eggs, a large spoon of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, d rop on a tin-plate floured : a very short time bakes them. Flat Cakes, that will keep lo7ig in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on this lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Cakes. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little punded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few ca- raways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin-plates.