DOMESTIC COOKERY. 260 of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemens’ dairiesmore attention is ])aid to the size and beauty ol the cows than 10 their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady- Day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time ; but in gentlemens’ fami- lies one or two should calve in August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average pro- duce of a dairy is about thee gallons a day each cow, from Lady-Day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will he profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to be reared, it should he taken from the cow in a weak at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morn- ing; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first, let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared in one leaf, and the weekly consumption in another part. Observations respecting Cheese. This well-known article dilfers according to the pasture