IIOMli-UUEAVERY. 249 let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand half an hour, run that into another tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Hun that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should oe infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub lor the first running. Boil the hops u ith the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off’ and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be pi'epared, and a cpiart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added to- gether, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung- hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. .Vote. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon iis the cock is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To refine Beer, Ale, f^Tine, or Cyder. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with awhisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar cal- cined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. Extract of Malt for Cotighs. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt, pour asmuch hot, not boiling water, as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without sq^ieezing the grains ; put the former into a large sweet- meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boilingover; when it be- gins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A desert-spoon thrice a day. I'o preserve l east. 'When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the