257 WINES, &C. An excellent Method of making Punch. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as tbe ascidity of a lemo)i cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar ; and with a bruiser press the sugar and the juce particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly per- formed. Then mix this np very /veil with boiling water (soft w'ater is best) till the water is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole /veil together again. The quantity of liquor must be according to your taste : two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been in print before, but is, greatly admired among the writer’s friends. It is im- possible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extre/nely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incor- porated together.