2C3 DAIRT. gently towards the side ofthe tuh, letting tlie Mhey l>nss through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is. to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therel(>re less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer; press the cnrd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks ; and it most be finally left two inches above the edge, before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom : and when full, drawn smooth over on all side®. There are two modes ofsalting cheese : one by mix- ing it in the curd while in the tub alter the whey is out; and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country imret direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again fur 8 or 9 hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to j)iit the cheeses last made nudermost. Before putting them the last time into the vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards_ and change and scald them. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in warm u hey, when you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it it on a rack. If you wantto ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity sh< uld be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped topreserve it. To keep those in daily use, moist, let a cl an cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for servins; wiih macaroni or eating w ithout. These observations are made with a view to