DOMESTIC COOKERY. 51 well; season it high with these ; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautiful-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of 6 nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Koll the liead quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle. Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beefbroth to add to the richness. Fiy some shalot in butter, and dredge-in flour enough to thicken the gravy : stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skin it carefully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender, xibout ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, taragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne pepper, and salt, to your taste ; also two spoonfuls of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper may.—Prepare half a calf’s head, mithout the skin, as above ; when the meat is cut olf, break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an an- chovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, See. Another.—Put into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow-lreels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, berries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs : cover them with water, tnen tie a thick paper over the pan, and set i t in an ovex