POULTUY. 85 water: let them cool; then cut up; and put to simmer ill a little i»ravy made ot“the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit ot‘ veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon- peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. vVhen (piite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the following manner: Strain it olf, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nut- meg, and a bit of flour and butter: give it one boil; and uhen you are going to serve, beat up tlie yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir tliem over the fire, but don’t let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg, Tlie gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers ; which are called the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin ; and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can: dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon, Another way.—Cutoff the legs, and the whole back, of a dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part into little flakes free from skin; toss itup with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, halfa blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cutoff the neck-end of the chicken : and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the mid- dle, with the back on it; and the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Cut up the chickens raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter with great care, of a fine light brown ; or if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan; with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful