DOMESTIC COOKERY. 210 till clear ; ilien take out the pieces of apricots singly as tiiey become so; put them into small pots, and pour the svrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper. To 2^reserve Aj)ricots in Jelly. Pare the fruit trr?/ thin, and stone it: weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Kextday boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowd, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; letit boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. I'o preserve green Apricots. Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves; then fill withspring-water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it; put thepan at a proper distance from tiie fire till the apri- cots green, but on no account boil or crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan wdth the syrup, for two or three days; then pour oft'as much of it as wdll be neces- .sary, and boil w'ith more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in find powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and tlien cover the fruit w'ith brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your