106 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a very cold place. Vvlien cold take off the cake of I'al (which will make crusts lor servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauce-pan and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil last and uncovered, and be stirred constantly, for eight hours. Put it into a pan and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boiling water on a stove and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned upside down to form cake«, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain oft’the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a bason of soup may be made in five minutes. Soup maigre. klelt half a pound of butter into a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage- lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, Uiree or four blades of mace, and if you have any white beet leaves add a large spoonful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of felery, a carrot, a tur- nip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil it in the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for broicn or while Fish-Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five ftounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into