COOKERY FOR THE POOR. 291 rishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as ihe meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. Take turni[)S, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand; cut them small, and throw in widi the thick part of peas, aiter they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; espe- cially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. Hut in every family there is some superfluity; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gailc^l.s of soup could he dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, thongh the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abouinling with opulent families, the quantity often gallons were made in ten gentlemen's houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome agreeable food given weekly for the sup- j.)ly of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a lager share, frequently reduces that strength upon v hich the welfare of her family essen- tially depends. It verv rarely happens that servants object to second- ing the kindness of their superiors to the poor ; hut should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the win- ter might repav her, if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundred fold. Did slie readily