rouK. 65 soak one night; and soak the crumb of a quartern loaf in rather more than two quarts of new milk made hot. Tn the mean time prepare the guts by washing, turning, ?nd scraping with salt and water, and changingthe water several times. Chop fine a little winter-savoury and thyme, agood quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger, and nutmeg; mix these with three pounds of beef-suet, and six eggs well beaten and strained ; and then beat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning: when well mixed, have ready some hogs’ fat cut into large bits; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled; and boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuffiing into basons, and boil it covered with floured cloths ; and slice and fry it when iised. Another way.—Soak all night a quart ofbniised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will swell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny- royal, some savoury and thyme ; salt, pepper, and all- spice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned thoroughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost; then drain them and add a cjuart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted majoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs w'ell