272 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the pans he set in water, that no sourness may he con- veyed to the fowls, as that jirevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; hut the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the tiesh will have a clear white- ness which no other food gives ; and when it is con- sidered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved hy this mode, it wdll he fonnd to he as cheap as harley-meal, or more so. The pen should he daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours be- fore poultry he killed. To choose Eggs at Market, and preserve them. But the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. In new laid eggs, there is a small divi- sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will he pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggsmay be bought cheapest w'hen thehens firstbegin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may he preserved fresh hy dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell; either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day; or close-])acked in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathers. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quanti- ties,are neglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool