222 domestic cookery. pared, but wiped clean. Boil them very quick, close covered, till the water becomes a thick jelly ; thenscald the quinces. To everypint ofpippin-jelly puta pound of the finest sugar : boilit, and skim itclear. Put those quinces that are to be done whole into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by themselves; skim it, and when the fruit are clear, put some of the syrup into a glass to try whether it jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already boiled with the sugar. Excellent Sweetmeats for 7'arts, when Fruit is plentiful. Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe; and take out and break the stones; put the kernels without their skin to the fruit; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump sugar ; sim- mer until the fruit be a clear jam. The sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and dded to the fruit over a slow fire. Observe that it Joes not boil, and skim it well. If the sugar be -clarified it will make the jam better. Put itinto small pots,in which all sweetmeats keep best. Magnum Bonum Plums: excellent as a Sioeetmeat or in Tarts, though vertj had to eat raw. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumpsof the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. Thsee plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in 2 syrups; the former will sweeten pies, bu»