223 SWEETMEATS. will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Lemon Drops. Grate three large lemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moderate oven on a tin plate. Barberry Drops. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the fire, till softenoughto pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china-basin ; then set the basin in a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. AVhen cold, put to every pint a pound and a halfof sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through a lawn-sieve, which must be covered with a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice togetlier three hours and a half if a large quantity, but two and a half for less; then drop it on sheets of wliite ;ihick paper, the size of the drops sold in tlie shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is neces- sary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incor- porated, and then drop; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch the juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop off the •jnd of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops: a good Stomachic. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil altogether to a candy, and drop it on uaper the size of mint-drops.