DOMESTIC COOKERY. 204 towards the top; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. Macaroni as usuallij served. Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well fla- voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with- out the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and gi'ated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, but do not let the top become hard. Another ivay—Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamander.—Another: Wash the macaroni, then sim- mer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs, and look light. Onilet. Make a batter of eggs and milk and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives (the latter is best) or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or tw'o of nutmeg. Make some butter boil in a small frying-pan, and pour the above batter into it when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some