domi:st;c cookery. 31 good beef-broth, or weak gra\y. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat: and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Haifa pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, mar- joram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quan- tities to the pungency of the several sorts; let there be a good handful altogether. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &.c. If, wdien done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef- bones and shanks of mutton in stewing.—A spoonful cr two of mademustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is gene- rally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead of lengthway s as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Slewed Rump another way. Half-roast it: then put it into a large pot with 3 pints ofwarer, 1 of small beer, I of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 spoonfuls of vinegar, 2 of ketchup, a bimch of sw'eet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, pars- ley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knot- ted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne ; cover it close, and simmer till (|uite tender : 2 or 3 hours will do it. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy : put in a few pickled mush- rooms, tinfHes, morells, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and but- ter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat-balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet,