80 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yel- low, and there will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red: if fresh, the feet will be pliable; if stale, dry and stilf. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded : a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Ducks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow; a wild one has the feet red- dish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh ; when they look flabby about the vent, and this partis discoloured, they are stale. The feet shoifld be supple ; if old, the I'eet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons; they shouldbe fat and tender; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The wood pigeon islarge, and the flesh dark coloured; if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is- equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, tlie feet are dry. They will keep sw'eet a long time. There are three sorts; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lap- wing. Hare or rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by pro- per care ; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know- a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone ue.ir the foot on its fore leg ; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in season in autumn. Ifyoung^