274 DOMESTIC COOKERY. as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. Turliies Are very tender when young. A.s soon as hatched, piit three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so care- less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tur- kies are violent eaters ; and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the young ones must be kept warm, or the least cold or damp lulls them. 'J'hey must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen, who will eat every lliingfrom them. They should have curds, green-cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and tlieir drink milk and water, butnotleftto be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come ; weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c. creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four w'eeks; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey ; and when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a day. The flesh will be beautifully white and fine-flavoured. The common way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Pea Fowl. Feed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatching;