2G2 DOMrSTlC COOKERY. two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or in good land, by skim-milk only. Butter 1 kewise should be made, and potted down for winter-use. but not to inter- fere vvith the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Rennet, to turn the Milk. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it insideand out with salt, after it is cleared ofthe curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handfuls of saltin it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over 1)V fresh water. .Another way.—Clean the maw as above ; next day take two (quarts of fresh spring-w'ater, and put into it a handful ot hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and twm large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water; strain it off; and when only milk- warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let itstajid twm days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. it will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two. and drv it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. To make Cheese. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till itis of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hot the cheese will be tough. Put in as mueh rennet as wdll turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till comjfletely turned ; then strike the curd down several times with the skim- ming dish, and let it separate, still CMvering it. There are two modes ofhreaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste ofthe cheese, according as either is obsert'ed ; one is, to gather it with the hands very