THE CELL 84 membrane, has been proved beyond a doubt by the following observation, which has played such an important part in the history of the cell theory (I. 7). In many algae (CEdogonium, Fig. 14), at the time of reproduction, the protoplasmic substance becomes detached from the cellulose cell-wall, and, whilst parting with some of its fluid contents, contracts up into a smaller volume, so that it no longer quite fills up the cavity ; it thus forms a naked swarmspore, which is either globular or oval in shape (A). After a time this swarmspore breaks down the original cell-wall, and, escaping through the opening it has made, reaches the exterior. It then develops cilia (G) upon its surface, by means of which it moves about pretty quickly in the water, until after a time it comes to rest (D), when it differentiates a delicate new membrane upon its surface. Thus Nature herself has afforded us the best evidence that the protoplasmic body is the true living elementary organism. A similarly great formation of vacuoles and separation of sap, as is found in plant-cells, is also seen in the naked protoplasm of the lower unicellular organisms, especially in certain Reticularia and Radiolarians ; thus the Actinosphcerium, which is depicted in Fig. 15, presents quite a frothy appearance, resembling the fine froth which is produced when albumen or soap-suds are beaten up. An immense number of larger and smaller vacuoles, filled with fluid, are distributed throughout the whole body. These are only separated from one another by delicate partition walls of proto- plasm, which are sometimes too thin to be measured. The protoplasm consists of a homogeneous ground substance, in which granules are embedded. The result of this formation of vacuoles is that the protoplasmic substance becomes broken up, so that surfaces of it become exposed to the nutrient solutions in the vacuoles, in consequence of which diffusion can take place between them. Evidently the whole arrangement adds considerably to the facility with which materials are taken up and given out. This internal increase of surface may be compared with the external increase of surface, which is shown in the formation of many-branched pseudopodia (Fig. 10), and indeed it answers the same purpose. In animal-cells, on the contrary, the formation of vacuoles and the secretion of sap only take place extremely rarely, for instance, in notochordal cells; on the other hand, adventitious substances, such as glycogen, mucin, fat globules, albuminous substances, etc.,