128 THE CELL 3. In both kingdoms a great many identical, or at any rate very similar, processes occur, by means of which complex chemical combinations are produced. These, however, differ essentially from the synthetical methods employed by chemists for the pro- duction of different organic compounds. In the chemistry of the cell, whether plant or animal, ferments play an important part (diastase, pepsin, trypsin, etc.). By the term ferment is understood an organic substance, produced by the living cell, of which an exceedingly minute quantity is sufficient to bring about a considerable chemical effect, and which, without bein»- itself, to any appreciable extent, consumed, is able to produce characteristic chemical changes both in carbo-hydrates and albuminous bodies. " Le chimisme du laboratoire est execute ä l'aide d'agents et d'appareils que le chimistre a crees, et le chimisme de l'etre vivant est execute ä l'aide d'agents et d'appareils que l'organisme a crees " (Claude Bernard IV. la). In the following pages we will consider the individual phenomena of metabolism, chiefly from a morphological point of view, with- out entering more fully into the chemical processes, which for the most part are very complicated, and as yet to a great extent obscure. During the course of metabolism three stages may be recognised : the absorption of new material, the consequent trans- formation effected in the interior of the protojilasm, and the excretion of waste products. We will first consider together the first and third of these stages, and later on the second by itself. I. Absorption and Excretion. All cells absorb gases, and also substances in a fluid or dissolved, and hence diffusible, con- dition ; finally many cells can make use of solid substances as food. These three series of phenomena must be considered apart. 1. The Absorption and Excretion of Gaseous Material. Proto- plasm can absorb the most various kinds of substances in a gaseous condition (oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide, ammonia, chloroform, ether, and a large number of similar substances). Amongst these substances, oxygen and carbon dioxide are the only ones of general importance in metabolism, and of these oxygen is the more important. Without the absorption of oxygen, that is to say without respiration, life cannot continue. With very few exceptions