92 THE CELL inanimate objects. It must never be forgotten that there is no substance in inanimate nature which remotely approaches the living cell for complexity of structure, and that hence the reactions of such a substance are of necessity correspondingly complex in character. The field of the phenomena of irritability is exceedingly wide, since it embraces all the correlations which take place between the organism and the outer world. The stimuli which act upon us from without are innumerable. For the sake of clearness, we will consider them under five heads: (1) thermal stimuli, (2) light stimuli, (3) electrical stimuli, (4) mechanical stimuli, (5) the almost infinite variety of chemical stimuli. The manner in Avhich an organism responds to one of these stimuli is called its reaction. This may vary very considerably with different individuals even when they are exposed to the same stimulus. It depends entirely upon the structure of the organism, or upon its finer properties, although these may not be perceptible to us. Different organisms, to use a simile of Sachs (IV. 32a), may in this respect be compared with variously constructed machines, which, when set in motion by the same external force, heat, pro- duce different useful effects according to their internal structures. Similarly,'the same stimulus may produce quite different effects in different organisms, according to their specific structure. We shall see later on that many protoplasmic bodies are to a certain extent attracted, whilst others are repelled, by light; a similar difference will be seen when the action of chemical reagents, etc., on protoplasm is studied. The terms positive and negative hellotropism, positive and negative cJiemotropism, galvanotro- pi'sm, and geotropism are used to describe these varying effects. Another phenomenon, in some respects the exact opposite of the ones described above, must also be explained by the varying specific structure of the stimulated substance; the term specific energy has been used to describe this phenomenon. Whilst, as described above, we see that protoplasmic bodies, differing in structure, react in various ways to the same stimulus, we find, on the other hand, that similar effects are produced upon the same protoplasmic body by very different stimuli, such as light, electricity, or mechanical injury. A muscle cell responds to all kinds of stimuli by contracting a gland cell by secreting; an optic nerve can only experience the sensation of light, whether stimulated by light waves, electricity,