196 THE CELL but is seen—most distinctly at that period when it has extended itself around one third of the circumference of the egg—to be pro- vided with a large number of small grooves, which open into it on both sides for the most part at right angles (60-100 on either side, Fig. 92). Thus a very pretty picture is produced, like a long deep valley in the mountains, with a large number of shorter, narrower valleys opening into it on either side. As the process of division progresses, and the main furrow deepens, the side furrows diminish in number, and finally quite disappear. The appearance of this peculiar and clearly marked coronal fur- row is a phenomenon which is connected with the contraction of the protoplasm during cleavage. c. Division of Plant Cells. The protoplasmic coating of the wall of. the embryo-sac of Fritillaria imperiales affords an in- structive illustration of the great uniformity of the process of nuclear division as it occurs in plants and animals. This, as well as the embryo-sacs of other Liliacece, is particularly suitable for the study of nuclear figures, for the layer of protoplasm is extremely thin, and, if examined at the right time, is seen to contain a large number of nuclei at various stages of division (Strasburger VI. 71-73; Guignard VI. 23). The large l-esting nucleus contains a linin framework with small meshes (Fig. 93 A), upon the surface of which a large number of small nuclein granules are pretty evenly distributed. In the majority of cases nucleoli are present. These vary in size, and lie between the meshes of the framework, to which they are attached. Strasburger is of opinion that, when the nucleus is preparing to divide, the whole framework becomes transformed into a few fairly thick threads, which are much twisted; he de- scribes in them a diagonal striation (c) similar to that observed by Balbiani (II. 3) in the nuclei of Chironomus larva? (Fig. 27). He accounts for this striation by the statement, that each thread is composed of numerous discs of nuclein arranged one after the other, and separated by their partition walls of linin. In the course of time, as the process advances, the nuclear mem- brane dissolves, and the nucleoli break up into smaller granules and disappear, whilst the nuclein threads grow shorter and thicker, and produce twenty-four nuclear segments ; a typical spindle composed of a large number of most delicate fibrils develops, in the centre of which the nuclear segments arrange themselves in a circle (Fig. 93 jD). Guignard has lately demonstrated the presence of two