THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 167 refractive power (Figs. 71, 72 A and B). However, when the surface is examined, a still more delicate structure can frequently be seen. The cell membrane is faintly striated, looking as though it were composed of a large number of parallel layers ; these are crossed by others running in an opposite direction. They run either longitudinally and transversely—that is to say, like rings round theceli—or are arranged diagonally to the longitudinal axis of the cell. Mgeli and Strasburger hold different opinions concerning the relation of this delicate striation towards the separate cellulose lamellae. Nägeli (V. 19) considers that both systems of striation are present in each lamella; further that, as in starch grains, the lamellae, as well as the intersecting bands, consist of substances alternately rich and poor in water, and hence are alternately dark and light in appearance. In consequence, a lamella is, as it were, divided into squares or rhomboids, like a parquetted floor. "These may assume one of three appearances; they may consist of sub- stances of greater, of less, or of medium density, according as to whether they occur at the point of intersection of two denser, of two less dense bands, or of one dense and one less dense band." Hence Nägeli is of opinion that the whole cell membrane " is divided in three directions into lamellae, which consist of sub- stances alternately rich and poor in water, and which intersect in a manner similar to that seen in the intersecting laminae of a crystal. The laminae in one direction compose the layers, those in the others the two striated systems. These latter may intersect at almost any angle ; they both meet the lamellae of the layers, apparently, in most cases at right angles." » On the other hand, in opposition to Nägeli, Strasburger (V. 31-33) and other botanists, whose statements are not to be dis- puted, consider that intersecting strive never belong to the same lamella; they think it much more likely that if one lamella is striated in a longitudinal direction, the next one is striated trans- versely, and so on alternately. Strasburger does not believe that the difference, either in the lamellae or the striae, is due to the varying amount of water which they contain. The lamella? and the striae in them are separated from one another by their surfaces of contact, which, in consequence of being seen at different angles (cross section and surface view), appear as darker lines. Thus the arrangement is similar, in the main, to that seen in the cornea, which consists of lamince formed of