ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 45 fine granules, as large masses, as fibrils, as a framework, or in the form of a honeycomb structure. Further, one such structure may develop into another during the various vital phases of the cell's life-history. Hence in formulating a definition of the nucleus, its varying form must be quite disregarded; the difficulty consists in defining the active substances contained in it, similarly as, in defining the cell, the difficulty lies in describing protoplasm. The nucleus consists of a mass of substances, which are peculiar to it, and which, to a cer- tain extent, differ from protoplasm, and may be distinguished from it. On this account, in all definitions of the nucleus, more importance should be attached to the properties of its structural components than is usually the case. The following selection of typical examples will serve to show what a multiplicity of forms may be assumed by the internal struc- ture of the resting nucleus. It is beyond dispute that the simplest struc- ture-disregarding the molecular conditions discussed later-is seen in the nuclei of mature sperm-cells. When the sperm-cells, as is the rule, assume a thread-like form, being the one most suitable for boring their way into the egg-cells, the nuclei constitute the anterior ends or heads of the threads. In the Sala- mandra maculata the head is like a sword, terminating in a sharp point (Fig. 21 h) • it consists of dense nuclein which, even when most highly magnified, is still homogeneous in appearance. A short cylindrical body, the so- called middle portion (m), which also appears homogeneous, is joined oa to the head; this portion reacts like paranuclein. Hence, ap- parently, it must be considered to form part of the nuclear portion of the sperm-thread- this, however, can only be finally proved when its further development has been observed arther, in sperm elements, where the form of the cell has been Fig. 21. — Spermato- zoon of Salamandra rnacidata: h head; m middle portion; ef ter- minal portion; sp aptx • « undulating mem- brane.