29 ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES Towards its edge the plasmodium becomes broken up into a number of threads of protoplasm, which are sometimes exceedingly thin, and sometimes somewhat thicker, and which unite together to form a fine network. In the thicker threads it is possible to distinguish both a thin layer of homogeneous ectoplasm, and also the endoplasm which it encloses; these cannot, however, be made out in the thinner ones. Throughout the whole mass of protoplasm, which is sometimes very extensive, a large number of minute nuclei are seen to be distributed. Amongst the Reticulata, of which many different kinds occur in fresh and salt water, Gromia oviformis (Fig. 10) is especially well known, in consequence of the experiments which have been made upon it by Max Schultze (I. 29). Part of the granular protoplasm, which contains a few small nuclei, lies within the oval shell, in which there is a wide opening at one pole, whilst the re- mainder protrudes through this open- ing, covering the surface of the shell with a thin layer. If the organism has not been disturbed, very delicate threads of protoplasm (pseudopodia). stretch out from this layer into the water in every direction; sometimes these pseudopodia are exceedingly long, many become forked, others break up into numerous minute threads, whilst yet others send off side branches, which unite with neighbour- • ing pseudopodia. Fig. 9.—Chondrioderma difforme (from Strasburger) : / part of a fairly old Plasmodium ; a dry spore ; b the same, swollen up in water ; c spore, the contents of which are exuding ; d zoospore; e amceboid forms, produced by the transformation of zoospores which are commencing to unite together to form a Plasmodium. (In d and e the nuclei and con- tractile vacuoles may be seen.) Dujardin gave the name of sarcode to the peculiar substance of which the bodies of the lower organisms, described above, are com- posed, because, like the muscle-substance of the higher animals, it is capable of exhibiting movements. Influenced by Schleiden and Schwann's cell theory, investigators Attempted to prove that sarcode was composed of a number of minute cells, so that the sarcode organisms might be included in the cell hyp .thesis. However, the solution to the difficulty was found to be in quite another direction. Investigators like Cohn (I. 7) and Unger were the first to compare sarcode with the protoplasmic contents of a plant-cell, in consequence of the similarity of the vital phenomena Finally, Max Schultze (I. 29), de Bary (I. 2), and Haeckel (1.10) established