THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 131 quantities of oxygen ; however, after the egg-cell has been fer- tilised, and division is proceeding rapidly, or when the plant seed germinates, the amount of oxygen which is absorbed increases. This absorption of oxygen is one of the functions of active living protoplasm (Sachs). Thus the following is easily explained, that the absorption of oxygen by the living cell "is, within certain wide limits, quite independent of the gaseous tension of the oxygen" (Pflüger). One important phenomenon must be described before closing this chapter on respiration. Even when oxygen is absent the cells are able to excrete carbon dioxide and evolve heat for a longer or shorter time. If germinating plants are introduced into a Torricellian vacuum, they continue to exhale a normal quantity of carbon dioxide for about an hour, after which the quantity gradu- ally decreases. ' According to Pflüger's experiments, Frogs can live for several hours in a bell-jar which is free from oxygen and filled with nitrogen, during which time they exhale a considerable quantity of carbon dioxide. Both these experiments prove, that for a time, without direct access to oxygen, but simply through the decomposition of organic substances, carbon and oxygen atoms may unite together in the cell to form carbon dioxide. This process is termed intramolecular respiration. As long as this persists, the cell lives, and remains irritable and capable of performing its functions, although with continually decreasing energy, by using up a portion of the oxygen contained in combina- tion in its substance. However, when oxygen is withheld for a considerable time, death invariably ensues. Upon these phenomena of intramolecular respiration the pro- position already mentioned rests : " that the first impulse to the chemical processes of respiration is not' given by the oxygen which enters from without, but that first and primarily a decom- position of albumen molecules resulting in the formation of carbon dioxide takes place inside the protoplasm, and that hence the incoming oxygen effects a restitutio in integrum.''' In fermentation processes, during which the ferments grow, multiply, and evolve carbon dioxide, without having access to oxygen, we see an instance which resembles intramolecular respiration; to this Pfeffer (V. 22) has called especial attention.