292 THE CKLI, vidual lV f ga°i8mS °hieflj'' since in th<™ 'he indi- vidual cells possess an absolute, or at any rate a large decree of ..dependence aud are not, as in the higher organL, related to and dependtout upon the other cells of the body Hence ^ . reo6;utoed UndamenW Ph~ ™ — Z bl ^Z^;t^Lk^'at preseat may h° ™ >*— of tte cell." m f°r.fertU\f»» Periodically daring the life the cell, (2) ,t mranably lasts only a short time; (3) it de- pends to a certain extent upon external conditions; and hence (7) .n many cases it may be suspended and transformed into partheno- genesis and apogamy. r That the need for fertilisation is a phenomenon occurring periodi- cally m the hfe of the cell may be demonstrated experimentally through the study of Ciliata. Maupas (VII. 30) has carried out a large number of very instructive experiments upon this subject During the life of one of the Ciliata, two periods can be dis- tingu,shed-an asexual one and one of sexual maturity or need of fertilisation. The first commences after two animals have ferti- lised one another and moved apart; multiplication then occurs by the rapid and repeated division of the cells. During this period, individuals from different cultures may be brought together, and the most favourable, conditions for conjugation be provided, and yet pairing never occurs. However, after a considerable time, they again experience a need for fertilisation. If at this time individuals from two cultures are brought together under suitable conditions, pairing occurs to a considerable extent for a few days. Thus Maupas has established the fact, that in Leucaphrys patula only individuals of the 300th to 450th generation after the act of fertilisation has taken place can reproduce themselves sexually. In Onychodromus this sexual period occurs between the 140th and 230th generations, and in Stylonichia pustulata between the 130th and 180th. The second law runs : This condition of '< need for fertilisation " is invariably of short duration. If cells capable of fertilisation are not fertilised at the right time, they soon perish. This may be demonstrated with Ciliata, swarm-spores of Alga?, and animal egg- cells.