TUB VITAL PROPERTIES OP THE CELL 807 a common mother-cell or from the same highly differentiated multicellular mother-organism. Lower Algee, Infusoria, Phanero- gamic, and all hermaphrodite animals supply us with a large number of examples of this. In Acetahdaria, sexual reproduction takes place in such a manner, that swarm-spores are derived in very great numbers from the contents of resting-spores. According to Strasburger and de Bary, conjugation only takes place between two swarm- spores if they are descended from two different resting-spores, whilst those that are derived from the same parent avoid each •other. Strasburger (VII. 38) says: "About mid-day 1 saw two neighbouring spores, which were absolutely indistinguishable from one another, rupture under my eyes, and the swarm-spores of both hurry straight to that edge of the drop which was nearest the window. Soon an extraordinary sight presented itself. I observed that the swarm-spores, which were derived from the same resting-spore, kept at equal distances from one another and evidently avoided each other, whilst at the same time conjugation groups—if I may use the expression,—that is to say, heaped-up collections of conjugating-spores, were formed, into which the individual swarm-spores, as it were, precipitated themselves. From these conjugation centres, pairs •of united swarm-spores were continually hurrying away." In his investigations upon Infusoria, Maupas (VII. 30), by means of several hundred experiments on four different species (Leucophrys, Onychodromus, Stylonichia, Loxophyllum), has estab- lished the fact, that even when fertilisation is necessary con- jugation only takes place when individuals of different generation •cycles are brought together. Maupas remarks : " In many pure cultures of nearly related individuals, the fast, to which I subjected them, resulted either in their becoming encysted, or in their dying of hunger. " It was not until after senile degeneration had already begun to make inroads in the culture that I noticed that the conjugation of nearly related individuals occurred in the experimental cultiva- tions. However, all such conjugations ended with the death of the Infusoria, which had paired, but which were unable to develop further, or to reorganise themselves after they had fused. Such pairings are, therefore, pathological phenomena due to senile •degeneration."