ITS CHEMICO-PHTSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 55 A plasm, arid hence the theory, more fully described later, that the blood discs of Mammals are not true cells, but only the products of the metamorphosis, or of the development of former cells, may be defended for many reasons. The only remaining instance of cells in which, on account of their extreme minuteness, no differentiation into protoplasm and nuclear substance can be demonstrated, is furnished by Bacteria and other allied forms. However, even here Bütschli (II. 6) has endeavoured to prove the existence of a nuclear-like body. Thus in Oscillaria and in others (Fig. 33 A, B), he has pointed out bodies which are not digested by gastric juice, and which contain a few granules, which stain intensely (probablynnclein granules); these make up the greater part of the cell substance, the protoplasm B being present only as a delicate envelope. Biitschli's views are for the raost part shared by Zacharias (II. 47). Even if it is objected that the above statement is at present uu- proven, it cannot be denied that the supposition that Bacteria con- sist entirely, or principally, of nu- clear substance, seems at any rate as probable, if not more so, as the one that they are minute masses of pure protoplasm. The extra- ordinary affinity of these organisms for staining reagents is very much in favour of the first view. IV. The Central or Pole Corpuscles of the Ce.. ago an exceedingly minute object, which, on account of Tts function, is of the greatest importance, was observed in addition to the nucleus in the protoplasm of some cells ; this is the central or pole corpuscle (centrosome). This was first noticed during cell division (which is described later on in Chapter IV.), and here it plays a most important part, as it forms a central point for the peculiar radiated appearances, and above all functions as the centre of the cell, around which the various cell contents are, to a certain extent, arranged. As to size, it is only just visible, and is frequently much smaller Fig. 33.—A Oscillaria : Optical section of a cell from a thread, killed with alcohol and stained with hematoxylin (after Bütschli, Pig. 12 a). B Bacterium liveola (Cohn), in optical section, killed with alcohol and stained with hema- toxylin (after Bütschli, Fig. 3 a). Long