342 THE CELL similar molecules of albumen, since the portions obtained by dividing a molecule, consist of groups of atoms of unequal value. On this account idioblasts are not identical with the plastidules, the existence of which is assumed by Eisberg and Höckel (IX. S b). For, according to Hasckel, the latter possess all the physical pro- perties, which physicists ascribe to molecules, or to collections of atoms, in addition to especial attributes, which belong exclusively to themselves, viz. "the vital properties which distinguish the living from the dead, and the organic from the inorganic." Our units, therefore, the gemmulge of Darwin, the pangena? of de Vries, and the physiological units of Spencer, must be complex units, or, at any rate, groups of molecules. In this fundamental view, all the above-mentioned scientists agree. Thus, according to Spencer, there is nothing left but to assume, that chemical units combine together to form units of an infinitely more complex nature than their own, complex though this be, and that in every organism the physiological units, produced by such combinations of highly complex molecules, possess various characters." If Nägeli's hypothesis of the molecular structure of organised bodies be accepted, it is easy to imagine that the nature of the idioblasts is as follows: " They can as little be single micella? (crystalline molecule-groups), as molecules; for even if, as a mixture of different modifications of albuminates, they possess different properties, they would still lack the capacity of multi- plying and forming new similar micella?. Insoluble and stable groups of albuminous micella3 alone afford all the necessary conditions for the construction of the gemmulge ; they alone, in consequence of their varying composition, can acquire all the necessary properties, growing indefinitely by storing up micella?, or multiplying by means of disintegration. Hence, the pangena? or gemmulse must consist of small masses of idioplasm." Now comes the question : What is the size and number of the idioblasts contained in a complete germ ? As regards size, the idioblasts must certainly be exceedingly small, since all the hereditary elemental germs of a highly-developed organism must be present in the minute spermatozoon. Nägeli has attempted to make an approximate calculation on this impor- tant point. He starts with the assumption, that the hypothetical albumen formula of chemists, with seventy-two atoms of carbon (C72H106M18SO2a), does not represent a molecule of albumen, but a