284 THE CELL by means of whioh they move about independently in the water lal T intereSt' fW th6^ 8h0W U8 W' hJ »«an. of gradual differentiation and division of labour in opposite direction. hey have developed more highly differentiated forms, namely' typical eggs and typical antherozoids. Swarm-spores are small, motile, naked cells, generally pear- shaped (Figs. 154, 155, 157, 158). The pointed end is anterior and goes in front, whilst the spore moves through the water • it consists of hyaline protoplasm, and frequently contains a red' or brown pigment spot (the eye-spot) ; the remainder of the body is hyaline, or coloured green, red, or brown with colouring matter, according to the species ; it con- tains one or two contractile vacuoles (Fig. 154). The swarm-spore moves along by means of flagella, which spring from the hyaline anterior portion \ FIG. is*.- there.are generally two flagella (Fig. 154), but s varm-spore of sometimes there is only one; occasionally there are Microgromia so- four or more (Fig. 14). Cialis. (After mi * » , R. Hertwig.) 1 ne swarm-spores are derived at certain times from the contents of a mother-cell, either by means of repeated bipartitions, or by the splitting up of the mother-cell into several portions (pp. 232-234). When division into two occurs, the number of swarm-spores is small, being 2, 4, 8, or 16 ; when, however, many cells are produced, the number is very great, for in that case the mother-cell is of considerable size, and may produce as many as from 7,000 to 20,000 daughter-cells. When the wall of the mother-eell ruptures at one place, the broad end of the swarm-spore escapes first to the exterior. There are two kinds of swarm-spores, which are developed at different times. The one kind multiply asexually, giving rise to young Algae, whilst the others require fertilisation. The mother- cell, from which the former are derived, is termed by botanists the sporangium, that giving rise to the latter gametangium. We will only consider sexual spores or gametes here. In many of the lower Algae conjugating swarm-spores (Fig. 155 a, b, c, d) cannot be distinguished from one another in any respect, either as regards their sizes, mode of movement, or behaviour (Ulothrix, Bryopsis, Botrydium, Acetabularia, etc.). On the other hand, in other species sexual differences develop, which enable us to dis- tinguish between male and female gametes. In the first case we speak of isogamous, and in the second oogamous fertilisation.