132 THE CELL Whilst the absorption of oxygen and the giving up of carbon dioxide indicate the beginning and end of a series of complicated processes which belong chiefly to retrogressive or destructive metabolism (catabolism), the absorption and elaboration of carbon dioxide in the cell afford us an insight into the opposite pro- cess, progressive metabolism (anabolism), or the reproduction of organic substance. This process, in contradistinction to respira- tion, is termed assimilation. Respiration of oxygen and assimilation of carbon dioxide are in every respect opposite processes. The former is a fundamental phenomenon common to nearly the whole organic kingdom, the latter is confined to the vegetable kingdom alone, and even here occurs only in such cells as contain chlorophyll or xanthophijll in their protoplasm. The respiration of oxygen conduces to oxidation decomposition processes, whilst on the contrary the assimilation of carbon dioxide causes the reduction of the latter, and the synthetic formation of complex molecular organic substances. These are carbo-hydrates, especially starches, which are found deposited in the form of small granules in the green portions of plants (chlorophyll corpuscles and chlorophyll bands). The individual stages of the synthetic processes which take place in the plant-cell during the assimilation of carbon dioxide are as yet unknown. Only so much may be said : carbon dioxide and water form the initial material for the synthesis ; further, as a result of the reduction of the carbon dioxide and water, oxygen is evolved, and is given off largely in the form of a gas. This trans- formation can only take place in protoplasm when chlorophyll is present; but it is possihle that other chemical substances are also concerned in the process. Finally, carbon dioxide assimilation can only occur under the influence of light. Heat is necessary in order to liberate the oxygen from the molecules of carbon dioxide and water. In this point also carbon dioxide assimilation and oxygen respiration are opposed : in the latter heat is evolved through oxidation, which is a process of combustion, and vital force is set free; in the former heat is used up in reducing the carbon dioxide, and as potential heat is rendered latent in the assimilation products. The heat required for this process is af- forded by the sun's rays. If an aquatic plant is introduced into water containing carbon dioxide, and is placed in the sunlight, innumerable small bubbles of gas are soon seen to rise ; if these are collected in a bell-jar,