294 THE CELL Infusona, winch are approaching sexual maturity, may be induced to pan- by withholding nourishment. « TJne riche alimentation," as Maupas observes, « endort l'appetit conjugant; le jeüne, au contraire, l'eveille et l'excite." Similarly Klebs (VII. 28) has observed in Eydrodictyon, that changes m the environment influence the development of sexual cells, by either inducing or hindering the process. Klebs has induced the formation of gametes in « nets," which were growing naturally, by cultivating them in a 7 to 10 per cent solution of cane sugar. After from five to ten days, the net fell completely to pieces, gametes having developed in nearly all the cells. .Further, the inclination for the formation of gametes was increased in the cells by cultivating fresh nets in shallow glass dishes, which contained a relatively small quantity of water, and which were placed in a sunshiny window. According to Klebs, the influence of chamber culture is " to arrest growth, but not to' interfere with the production of organic compounds by means of assimilation ; at the same time, however, a certain poorness in nutrient salts is produced." On the other hand, sexual reproduction may be suppressed, as in Ciliata. For this purpose it is only necessary to place a net, the cells of which have just commenced to form gametes, in a 5 to 1 per cent, nutrient solution composed of 1 part sulphate of magnesia, 1 part phosphate of potassium, 1 part sulphate of potas- sium, and 4 parts sulphate of calcium. After a short time, asexual swarm-spores develop, especially if the net is put back into fresh water. Eidam has observed that a small fungus, Basidioholns ranarum, when cultivated from conidia in a nutrient medium, develops a firm mycelium, which produces simultaneously both asexual re- productive cells (conidia) and sexual cells. In an exhausted nutrient medium, on the contrary, the conidia produce only a loose mycelium, which immediately and exclusively gives rise to sexual cells, which unite together to form zygospores. Abundant nourishment in plants is conducive to vegetative in- crease, as the experience of gardeners teaches us, but hinders the formation of seed, whereas the development both of bloom and seed is increased by restricting vegetative growth (cutting off roots and shoots), and thus diminishing the absorption of nourish- ment. The same phenomenon has also been observed in animals, which