94 THE CELL period, varying in length, of rest or recuperation has elapsed since the cause of irritation was removed. I say advisedly more or less completely, for very often the organic substance is permanently altered in its structure and reacting powers by the application, for a considerable period, of a stimulus, or by the repeated action of the same stimulus. The phenomena thus produced are spoken of as the after-effects of stimulation. As a rule, we are not in a position to determine whether or no a body can be stimulated, that is to say, whether it reacts to changes in its environment, since most of the effects due to stimulation are imperceptible to us. Sometimes the protoplasm responds by exhibit- ing movements, or by striking changes of form; but, as has been just remarked, such phenomena constitute only a small and limited portion of the results produced, although naturally they are the most important to the investigator, since they are apparent to his perception. In consequence, in the following pages, we will chiefly consider the way in which protoplasm responds, by means of move- ments, to the stimuli, which, have been grouped into the above five classes. I have therefore decided to commence my considerations of the vital properties of the elementary organism with contrac- tility. I. Thermal Stimuli. One of the essential conditions for the vital activity of protoplasm is the temperature of its environment. This temperature can only vary between certain fixed limits; if it oversteps either of these, the protoplasm invariably dies immedi- ately These limits, it is true, are not the same for all protoplas- mic bodies ; some are able to withstand extremes of temperature better than others. The maximum temperature for plants and animals is generally about 40° C. Exposure for a few minutes to such a temperature suffices to cause the protoplasm to swell up and become coagulated, and thereby its irritable structure and its life are destroyed. If an Amoeba is placed in water at 40°, it dies immediately ; it draws in its pseudopodia and "converts itself into a globular vesicle, whose sharply defined double contour encloses a large, turbid mass which, by transmitted light, looks brownish in colour" (Kühne IV 15). The same temperature causes "death from heat" in JEthahum ' septicum, coagulation being induced. In Actinophrys, however instantaneous death occurs at a temperature of 45° whilst the cells of Tradescantia and Vallisneria are only killed by a tem- perature of 47-48° 0. (Max Schaltee I. 29).