191 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL independent individuality. The angles of the loop are turned towards the original pole (the polar area in the Salamandra), whilst the ends of the loop, which are knob-like and swollen, are directed towards the region of the anti-pole. The second stage of division now commences. The centro- somes, with their spheres, separate and travel for some distance, until their common axis lies either somewhat obliquely or parallel to the first division plane. The nuclear membrane dissolves. The four segments arrange themselves in the equator between the two centrosomes in the manner described above, whilst a dis- tinct radiation develops around the centrosomes in the proto- plasm, so that the appearance, seen from the pole, resembles that depicted in Fig. 85 A. The four segments then split longitudinally A * Fib. 85.—A Four mother-segments seen from the pole of the nuclear figure (after van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 16). B Lougitudinal splitting of the four mother-seg- ments into eight daughter-segments (after van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 17). —that is to say, the third stage commences (Fig. 85 B). The daughter segments thus formed separate from one another, and travel towards opposite poles. E. van Beneden (VI. 4b) and Boveri (VI. 6) consider that the spindle fibrils play an active part in this process. In their opinion, the spindle in Ascaris is composed of two independent portions, each of which consists of a large number of protoplasmic. fibrils. These converge towai^ds the centrosome and attach their ends to it, whilst the op- . posite ends diverge, approach the nuclear loops, and fasten themselves at various points to the daughter-segments, which are turned towards them. These threads by gradually contracting, and thus be- coming shortened, cause, in van Beneden's and Boveri's opinion, the separation of the four daughter-segments, which are thus gradually drawn towards the cen- trosomes. Fig. 86.—The construction of the spindle out, of two hall- spindles, the fibrils of which have attached themselves to the daughter-segments. (Aftpr van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Fig. 8.)