THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 1»» 1QQ EU disappear, first around the daughter-nnclei and then also in the neighbourhood of the cellulose partition wall. The n inute, definite particles, which collect as granules in the raid le of the connecting fibrils, and form a designated as cell-wall formers, in accordance with the abme iXned conception, which will be entered into at more detail Historical remarks and unsolved problems concern- ing nuclear segmentation.-In ^^^^^ 1870, in consequence of the labours of Butschli (VIL 6) Stias burner (VI. 71), Hertwig (VI. 30a), and Fol (VI. 19a), the changes experienced by the nucleus during division were described on the whole correctly, although somewhat vaguely. The fibrinous nuclear spindle, the collection of shining granules, which is stained with carmine, in its centre (Strasburger s nuclear plate), the subsequent division of the granules into two groups or two daughter nuclear plates, and the development of the vesicular daughter nuclei from these latter, had all been discovered by then. Farther, the radiation figures—stars, or araphiaster (Fol)—at the ends of the spindle were known, and Fol and myself had already described the presence of more strongly glistening granules, the centrosomes, in them; diagrams had been made of them, and their functioning as attraction centres had been pointed out. Further it had been satisfactorily established that during cell- division the nucleus did not become dissolved (karyolysis, Auerbach, VI. 2a), but became metamorphosed. Further, through my investigations on mature eggs, especially on those of Asteracanchion and Nephelis, and in consequence of the discovery of the internal phenomena which occur during fertilisation, I showed, at the same time, that the nucleus is not a new develop- ment in the egg, but that it is derived from definite portions of the germinal vesicle, which nnited themselves with the male pro- nucleus, derived from the head of the spermatozoon (the altered nucleus of the sperm cell), to form the division nucleus. As a result, the important proposition was formulated that all nuclei may be traced back in an unbroken line of descent from the nucleus of the egg-cell, just as all cells of the animal organism are derived from a fertilised egg-cell (Oram's nucleus e nucleo. Flemming VI.). The theory of nuclear and cell division, which was founded in consequence of the above-mentioned investigations, has been