THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 141 and so produces a current, the result being that the bladder swells up in consequence of the increased pressure of its contents, and its wall grows thinner and thinner. The distension of the bladder only ceases when the external and internal liquids are in osmotic equilibrium. Thus the protoplasmic coating of many plant-cells would be very much distended in consequence of the internal pressure (turgor) were it not that a limit is set to its distension by the less elastic cellulose membrane. Equilibrium between the cell-sap and the surrounding fluid mio-ht be established, if the osmotic substances were to become diffused into the water, so as to remove the cause of the internal pressure. However, this is prevented by the properties of the living plasmic membrane. As the plasmic membrane, if the ex- pression may be allowed, decides whether a body may be admitted into the interior of the cell or no, similarly it has the important power of retaining in the cell-sap dissolved substances which otherwise would be washed out by the water bathing the cell; of this property mention has already been made, and an instance cited (Pfeffer V. 23). That, in fact, the cell-sap exists under a pressure greater than that of its environment, for instance, that the pressure in aquatic plants is greater than that of the surrounding water, may be easily proved by some simple experiments, as has been shown by Nägeli (V. 16). If a cell of Spirogyra be opened by an incision, so that part of its contents flows out, the transverse walls of the two neighbouring cells bulge out towards the cavity of the injured one. Hence the pressure in the uninjured cells must be greater than that in the injured one, the tension of which has sunk down to the level of that of the surrounding water. 3. Absorption of Solid Bodies. Cells, which either are not surrounded by a special membrane, or possess apertures in their membranes, are able to take solid bodies up into their protoplasm, and to digest them. Thus Rhizopoda capture other small unicellular organisms with which their widely outstretched pseudopodia come into contact (Figs. 10, 60). The pseudopodia which have seized the foreign body contract, and so gradually draw it into the mass of the protoplasm; here the nutrient sub- stances are extracted, whilst the indigestible remains, such as skeletal structures, are after a time ejected to the exterior. Even solid substances, which possess but small nutritive value, are taken up. If carmine or cinnabar granules are introduced into the water,