101 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL This sensitiveness towards light varies considerably both in different species and in individual members of the same species • indeed, even in the same individual, considerable differences may be seen under different external conditions. This varying* power of reaction in swarm-spores has been called phototonus or light- tone by Strasburger. Swarm-spores of the Botrydium and Ulothrix, which react some- what differently under the influence of light, are very suitable for experiments on this subject. If some swarm-spores of Botrydium are placed in a drop of water upon a coverglass, and are kept in shadow, they spread themselves out evenly in the water. If a light is allowed to fall on them, they are seen to immediately direct their anterior ends towards the source of light, and to hurry in fairly parallel paths towards it. After a short time, at most from one and a half to two minutes, almost all of them have collected at the illuminated side of the drop, which, for the sake of brevity, Strasburger has named the positive edge, to distinguish it from the opposite or negative edge. Here they are seen to intermingle and to conjugate in large numbers. If the slide is now turned round through an angle of 180°, all the spores which are still capable of movement immediately forsake the edge of the drop, which is now turned away from the light, and hasten back towards the lio-ht If the microscope is fitted with a rotating stage, it is possible by turning the latter to make the swarm-spores continually keep changing their course. They always travel in a straight line towards the light. Ulothrix zoospores behave in a somewhat different manner These also travel quickly, and in approximately straight paths towards the positive edge of the drop; however, as a rule, they do not all move in this manner; on the contrary, it is generally the case that a larger or smaller number of individuals in each prepara- tmn are seen to move rapidly in the opposite direction, that is o say towards the negate edge. A most peculiar spectacle is has produced for the spores, since they go m opposite Lections appear to travel at double speed as they pass each other If the preparation is turned through an angle of 18u°, the spores which to thCe r T ! -fde WMCh ™ P0Sitivü are ™» *> has n o the other edge, whilst the others, which were collected on the -de winch was negative, travel in the opposite direction, and having arrived at their destination, they commence to move about