4(5 THE CELL retained, the nucleus appears as a compact globular mass of nuclein; this is the case in the sperm elements of Ascaris megalocephala (Fig. 22), which, when immature, are shaped like fairly large, round cells, and when mature assume the form of a thimble. Having examined this simple condition of the nucleus, as it occurs in sperm-cells, and where it is composed almost entirely Fig. 22. — Sperm-ceil of Gf active nuclear substances, being nearly AscaHo megalocephala (after f fa admixture of otner Sub- Van Beneden ; from O. Hertwig's Embryology, Fig. stances, we may now proceed to examine 21): k nucleus; b base of otter nuc]ear forms. In these we see that cone, by which it attaches , . itself to the egg; / shining the chief cause for the variety m form, winch substance resembling fat. ^as oeen observed in plant and animal cells, is the fact, that the active nuclear substances evince a great inclination to take up liquid, with the substances dissolved in it, and to store it up, generally to such an extent, that the whole nucleus acquires the ap- pearance of a bladder enclosed in protoplasm. Thus in the nucleus, a process takes place similar to that which occurs in protoplasm, where the cell-sap becomes collected in vacuoles or large sap-cavities. This circumstance bears the same significance in either case. These vacuoles are concerned in the metabolism both of the cell and of the nucleus, for they contain in solution nutrient materials, which can be easily taken up by the active substances, in consequence of the great superficial de- velopment of the vacuoles. This process of sap absorption may be directly observed when, after fertilisation has taken place, the nucleus of the sperma- tozoon in performance of its function, enters the egg-cell. In many cases it begins to swell up gradually, until it becomes ten to twenty times as large as it was originally ; this is not due to any increase of its active substances, which remain absolutely unaltered in quantity, but entirely to the absorption of fluid substances which were held in solution in the yolk. In such a nucleus which has become transformed into a vesicular body, the nuclein'is spread out in fine threads to form a net; in addition, one or two globules of paranuclei (nucleoli) are now to be seen. A similar process occurs each time a nucleus divides, when the dauo-hter nuclei are being reconstructed. According as to whether the nucleus has absorbed a greater or less quantity of nuclear sap, its solid constituents, which on account