170 THE CELL That such a stretching of the cellulose membrane does actually occur is proved by several phenomena. The tumescence already mentioned causes distension. When a cell is plasmolysed it at hvst contracts somewhat as a whole, in consequence of the loss of water before the outer layer of the protoplasm becomes separated from the cell-wall. This indicates that it was subjected to in- ternal pressure. It may be observed in many Alga, that the cellu- lose lamella, which are first formed, are eventually ruptured by the stretching, and discarded (Rivzdaria, Glceocapsa, Schizochlamys gelahnosa, etc). Each distension and contraction must be con- nected with a change of position of the most minute particles, which become located either on the surface or in the deeper layers. Thus the way in which a membrane increases in size when stretched offers many points of resemblance to growth by intus- susception. The difference consists in this, that in the first case particles of cellulose already present are deposited in the surface, whilst in the second case particles in process of formation are so deposited. However, I do not wish to totally disregard growth through intussusception, as Strasburger formerly.did (V. 31). On the contrary, I consider it to form, in addition to apposition, a second important factor in the formation of the cell-wall, although it is certainly not the only factor, as is dogmatically stated in Nägeli's theory. Many phenomena in cell-growth may be most easily explained by means of intussusception, as has been done by Nägeli, whilst the apposition theory presents numerous difficulties. It does not often occur that the cell-wall becomes ruptured by stretching, and yet the increase in size which occurs in nearly all cells from their initial formation until their full growth, is quite out of proportion to the elasticity of the cell-wall, which, as it is composed of cellulose, cannot be assumed to be very great. Many plant cells grow until they are a hundred or even two hundred times as long as they were originally (Chara). The fact that many cells are very irregular in form would be very difficult to explain if the cell membrane were considered to increase superficially solely by stretching, like an indiarubber bladder. For example, Caulerpa, Acetabularia, etc., are apparently differentiated, like multicellular plants, into root-like, stem-like, and leaf-like structures, although each plant consists of only a single cell-cavity. The growth of' each of these parts proceeds