ORK THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL segments, in the nuclei of egg- and sperm-cells there are but 12 It is only when the two nuclei unite that they form a complete nucleus, from which arises the first division spindle with its mother-segments, 12 being of male and 12 of female origin. As concerns the centrosomes, a slight difference is shown by Echinoderms and Phanerogams. In the former, the centrosome at the beginning is single in both egg- and sperm-nuclei, and only becomes doubled through division ; in the latter, on the other hand, two centrosomes are seen at a very early period both m tlie pollen-tube and in the egg-cell. If we compare the results mentioned on the preceding pages (256-264), we may lay down the following fundamental laws re- ferring to the process of fertilisation as it occurs m animals and phanerogamous plants :— During fertilisation morphological processes, plainly to be demonstrated, occur. The most important and essential of these is the coalescence of the two nuclei which are derived from differ- ent sexual cells, that is to say, the coalescence of the egg- and the sperm-nuclei. During the act of fertilisation two important processes of coa- lescence occur :— 1. Equivalent quantities of male and female stainable nuclear substance (nuclein) unite together. 2. Each of the halves obtained by the division of a male centro- some unites with a corresponding half of a female centrosome, by means of which the two centrosomes of the first nuclear division figure are obtained. In the male and female alike, the stainable nuclear substance has been reduced to one half of the normal quantity, both as re- gards mass and the number of nuclear segments which it contains. Hence it is only after they have fused together that the full amount of substance and the complete number of segments con- tained by a normal nucleus are again present. 3. The Fertilisation, of Infusoria. Certain Infusoria afford us especially important objects for the investigation of the subject of fertilisation. The sexual processes occurring in them were discovered by Balbiani and Bütschli (VII. 6), who were pioneers in this work, and they have lately been rendered much clearer by the classical labours of Maupas (VII. 30) and of Richard Hertwig (VII. 21). Infusoria, as it is well known, differ from other lower organisms