1 so OU THE CELL The mam feature of the process consists in this, that the various chemical substances (vide p. 40), which are present in the resting nucleus, undergo a definite change of position, and the nuclear membrane being dissolved, enter into closer union with the proto- plasmic substance. During this process the constant arrangement of the nuclein becomes especially apparent; and, indeed, the changes, which occur in. this substance, have been most carefully and successfully observed, whereas we are still very much in the dark concerning what takes place in the remaining nuclear sub- stances. The whole mass of nuclein in the nucleus becomes transformed during division into fine thread-like segments, the number of which remains constant for each species of animal. These seg- ments are generally curved, and vary in form and size according to the individual species of plant or animal; they may appear as loops, hooks, or rodlets, or if they are very small, as granules. Waldeyer (VI. 76) proposed the common name of chromosomes for all these various forms of nuclein segments. As a rule I shall employ the more convenient name of nuclear segments, which applies equally to them all, whilst, at the same time, the expres- sion indicates the most important part of the process of indirect division, which consists chiefly in this, that the nuclein breaks up into segments. Similarly the term nuclear segmentation appears to me to be preferable to the longer and less significant expression of indirect nuclear division, or the terms mitosis and karyokinesis, which are incomprehensible to the uninitiated. During the course of division each nuclear segment divides longitudinally into two daughter segments, which for a time lie parallel to one another, and are closely connected. Next, these daughter segments separate into two groups, dividing themselves equally between the two daughter-cells, where they form the foundation of the vesicular daughter nuclei. The following phenomena are also characteristic of the process of nuclear segmentation: (1) the appearance of the two so-called pole corpuscles (centrosomes), which function as central points, around which all the cell constituents arrange themselves ; (2) the formation of the so-called nuclear spindle; and (3) the develop- ment of the protoplasmic radiation figures around the centrosomes. As regards the two centrosomes, they make their appearance in the vesicular nucleus at an early stage, before the membrane has been dissolved, being situated in that portion of the proto-