98 THE CELL 20° C.; 2-4 seconds at 26° C; 1 5 seconds at 31° ft; and '65 seconds at 37° C. From these figures it is apparent that "each consecu- tive degree of temperature produces a corresponding slight acceleration " (Nägeli, Velten). Finally, it is necessary to mention the remarkable behaviour of protoplasm towards sudden great fluctuations of temperature, and also towards partial or uneven heating. Fluctuations of temperature may be either positive or negative, that is to say, they may be caused by a raising or a lowering of temperature. The consequence of a violent thermal stimulation is a temporary cessation of all movements. However, after a time, the motion recommences at a rate corresponding to the tempera- ture (Dutrochet, Hofmeister, de Vries). The accuracy of these observations has been questioned by Velten (IV. 38). According to his experiments, fluctuations of temperature between the neces- sary limits produce neither a cessation nor a slackening of the protoplasmic movements, which, on the contrary, immediately proceed at a rate corresponding to the temperature which has been attained. Stahl (IV. 35), in his experiments upon the plasmodia of Myxomycetes, has made some very interesting discoveries concern- in^ the" effects produced by partial heating. If a portion of such a Plasmodium, which has spread its network out over an even surface, be cooled, the protoplasm is seen to travel gradually from the cooler to the warmer part, so that the one portion of the net- work is seen to shrink up, whilst the other becomes swollen. The e xperiment may be conducted in the following manner: Two beakers, one filled with water at 7", and the other with water at 30° are placed quite close to one another ; a wetted strip of paper over which a plasmodium has spread itself is then placed over their contingent edges, so that one of its ends dips into each beaker • the temperature of the water in the beakers is not allowed to vary After a time the plasmodium, by stretching out and drawing in its protoplasmic thread, succeeds in creeping over to the medium which is best adapted to it. No doubt most free-living protoplasmic bodies move somewhat in this fashion, for as a rule their movements are regulated by expediency, that is to say, they take place in order that the life of the organism may be maintained. For instance, flowers of sink down during the autumn to a depth of several feet into the vvarmer layers of the tan, in order to pass the winter there.