346 THE CELL greater in volume than the total substance of a spermatozoon- hence protoplasm cannot be the idioplasm. Only one substance fulfils all the necessary conditions, namely, the nuclear substance. I he study of the phenomena of fertilisation in the animal and vegetable world proves this irrefutably. As was described in chapter seven, the essence of the process of fertilisation consists in this, that the sperm and egg nuclei, i.e. one nucleus derived from the spermatozoon, and one derived from the egg-cell, each accompanied by its centrosome, place themselves in contact, and, fusing together, form a germ-nucleus, from which subsequently, one after another, all the nuclei of the developed organism are obtained by repeated divisions. In Giliata, two individuals only lay themselves alongside of each other for a short time, so as to exchange migratory nuclei, each of which subse- quently fuses with the stationary nucleus of the other organism. As far as the most careful observation shows, the egg and sperm nuclei contribute exactly equal quantities of material to- wards the formation of the germ-nucleus, that is to say, equal quantities of nuclein, and of polar substance, which I include amongst the nuclear substances. Fol (VII. 14) has proved the equivalence of the polar substance, which is contributed by the two conjugating individuals, whilst the observations of van Beneden (VI. 4 b) upon the process of fertilisation, as seen in Ascaris megalocephala, demonstrate irre- futably the equivalence of the nuclein so obtained. We, therefore, draw the following important conclusion from the facts observed during the process of fertilisation : since in fertilisation the nuclear substances (nuclein and polar substance) are the only materials which are equivalent in quantity, and which unite to form a new fundamental structure, the germinal nucleus, they alone must constitute the hereditary mass which is transmitted from parent to child. We cannot at present decide what is the exact relation borne by the nuclein and the polar substance to the idioplasm. 2. The equal Distribution of the multiplying Hereditary Mass, amongst the Cells, proceeding from the fertilised Egg. We are obliged to assume that the multiplying hereditary mass is evenly distributed amongst the descendants of the egg-cell, when we consider the various phenomena of reproduction and regeneration ; for instance, the circumstance that each new organism produces numerous egg or sperm cells, which contain the same hereditary