THE C E [j 11 48 consist of paranuclein, and on this account Flemming has called them net-lcnots, in order to distinguish them from nucleoli. The framework of the nuclei of the various animal tissue cells may be fine or coarse. In the tatter case it consists of only a few strands, so that " it hardly deserves the name of a net or framework." As a rule, the nuclei of young, embryonic and growing tissues possess, as Flemming has observed, networks coarser than those of similar tissues in the adult. For the most part the nuclear framework is composed of two different substances, linin and nuclein; of these the latter alone is capable of absorbing and retaining the ordinary staining reagents. The two substances are generally so arranged that the nuclein, in the form of coarser and finer granules, is evenly distributed upon and throughout the colourless linin. When the meshes of the frame- work are very fine (Fig. 24) it may be very difficult, or indeed impossible, to distinguish the two substances from one another. In a coarser network, such as is represented in Fig. 25, it is much easier to do so; here a resting nucleus from the protoplasmic lining of the wall of the embryo-sac of Fritillaria im- perials is portrayed. According to Stras- burger's description, the delicate framework threads as a rule do not become stained ; hence they must consist of linin. Coloured nuclein granules of varying size are seen to be de- posited upon them. In addition a number of variously sized nucleoli are to be seen. If any one should wish to convince himself of the fact that a special framework of linin is present in the nucleus, he cannot do better than examine the nuclei oE the sperm-mother-cells, of the round worm of the horse (Fig. 26). During the early stages of division, all the nuclein is gathered into eight bent hook-shaped rods which collect together into two bundles; they are as it were, suspended in the nuclear cavity, for colourless threads of hmn con- nect them both to the nuclear membrane and to one another. It is impossible for these threads to be coagula in the nuclear sap, produced by the use of reagents, since they are invariably regu- Lly arranged. Similarly their chemical reaction and their be* havLr during the process of division show that they are composed ofTsubstanc; which differs somewhat from nuclein and para- Duclein. Fig. 25. — Fntillaria imperial*. A resting nucleus (after Stras- burger, Fig. 191 A).