THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 273 pearance; the spermatozoon often contains less than TööVöö of the protoplasm present in the ovum. Thus, according to Thuret's computation, the ovum of Fucus is as large as from 30,000 to 60,000 antherozoids. In animal sexual cells, the difference is usually still greater, especially when the egg-cells are copiously laden with reserve materials, such as fat-globules, yolk-granules, etc. Indeed, in typically developed spermatozoa the presence of protoplasm at all may.be doubted; for the tail, which is attached to the middle portion, consists of contractile substance, which, like muscle fibres, is a differentiation product of the protoplasm of the sperm-cell. In immature spermatozoa, protoplasm is present in the form of drops of various sizes, which, having served their purpose during development, eventually disappear. Nuolear substance behaves in quite a different way. However much the ovum and spermatozoon may vary as to size, they still invariably contain equal quantities of active nuclear substance. The truth of the above statement cannot be proved by a simple comparison of the two sexual cells, but if the course of the process of fertilisation and of the development of the mature ovum and sperm-cell be watched, it will be seen that they both contain an equal quantity of nuclein, and that during the process of matura- tion they develop an equal number of nuclear segments. For example, the sperm-nucleus of Ascaris megalocephala bivalens con- sists, like the egg-nucleus, of two nuclear segments of the mother cell; each during fertilisation contributes similar elements, which are utilised in the formation of the germinal nucleus (Fig. 142 II). In the same way each nucleus contributes the same amount of polar substance, the male and female centrosome both of which, in the manner described on p. 262, take part in the process of fertilisation (Fig. 141). In opposition to these conclusions, it might be stated, that the nuclear portions of both egg and sperm-cells before their union are usually very different in appearance, and vary more or less in size. This, however, is easily explained by the fact, that the passive fluid substances may be mixed in greater or less quantities with the active nuclear substance. The minute head of the sperma- tozoon consists of fairly compact, and hence strongly stainable, nuclein. In the egg-nucleus, which is much larger, the same amount of nuclein is saturated with a quantity of nuclear sap, throughout which it is distributed in the form of minute granules and threads, the result being that the egg-nucleus as a whole is T