144 THE CELL importance, and undergo fatty degeneration. Tans, during the metamorphosis of Echinoderm larva and of Nemertines, certain portions disappear; and, similarly, the young Frog during its development loses its conspicuous tail, which acted as a rudder. In all these cases the cells of these degenerating organs undergo a fatty metamorphosis, die and disintegrate. In the meantime a large number of migratory cells or phagocytes have collected in their neighbourhood, and these commence to devour and digest the degenerated tissue, as can be plainly seen during life in trans- parent marine animals. Secondly, just as during the normal processes of development, the phagocytes occupy themselves in reabsorbing particles, the death or disintegration of which has been brought about either by normal or pathological conditions. Red blood corpuscles become destroyed after they have circulated in the blood for a certain time. In splenic blood their remains have been seen in the bodies of white corpuscles, which here again fulfil their function of getting rid of dead material. When in consequence of a wound an effusion of blood occurs in the tissue, and thousands of blood corpuscles and elementary particles are destroyed, the migratory cells again set to work, and produce reabsorption and healing. Thirdly, and lastly, the phagocytes during infectious diseases constitute a body-guard to the organism, in opposing the spread of the micro-organisms in the blood and tissues. Metchnikoff has rendered great service in drawing attention to this circumstance (V. 13-15, 1Y. 22). He succeeded in showing that the Cocci of erysipelas, the Spirilla of relapsing fever, and the Bacilli of anthrax were eaten up by the wandering cells, and thus rendered harmless (Fig. 61). The micro-organisms, of which as many as from ten to twenty may be present in one cell, after a certain time show distinct signs of degeneration. If the micro- organisms are present in the blood, they are destroyed, especially in the spleen, liver, and red bone marrow. If they succeed in settling down in some place in the tissue, the body endeavours to o-et rid of the intruders by collecting as the result of inflammatory processes a large number of migratory cells to the spot. As Metchnikoff expresses it, between micro-organisms and phagocytes an active war is raging. This is settled in favour of one or other party, resulting, as the case may be, in the recovery or death of the affected animal. The power possessed by migratory cells of destroying certain