THE CELL 108 (in Fig. 55, + ) which is manifested by the retraction of the pseudo- podia, and, if the stimulus lasts long, by the destruction of the protoplasm at the place where the current enters. When communication is broken, the destructive process at the anode immediately ceases, whilst, on the other hand, a transitory contraction occurs at the sur- face which is turned towards the cathode. Perhaps even more interest- ing and important than these processes are the phenomena produced by Galvanotrop- ism, which have been observed by Verworn in a number of unicellular organisms (IV. 39, 40). Many organisms, in conse- quence of the influence of the constant current, are caused to move in certain fixed directions, just as they move when stimulated by a ray of light (heliotropism). " If a drop, containing as many Paramcecia aurelia as possible, is placed upon a slide between two non-polarisable electrodes, and the constant galvanic circuit is closed, it is seen that the Paramcecia immediately leave the anode in a mass, and hurry in a dense swarm to the cathode, where they collect in great numbers. After a few seconds the rest of the drop becomes completely free from Protista, whilst at the cathode there is a dense seething crowd of them. Here they remain as long as the current persists. When connection is broken, the whole swarm immediately forsakes the cathode to swim back in the direction of the anode. How- ever, they do not all collect at the anode, part of them re- maining scattered about in the drop; at first they do not come near to the cathode, but after a time they gradually approach it, .until finally all the Protista are again evenly distributed through- out the drop." If pointed electrodes are employed, the Paramcecia swarm inwards to form a galvanic figure around the cathode (Fig. 56.-1). Fig. 55.— Actinosphceriam Eichhornii, be- tween the poles of a constant current. A short time after the closing of the current, granular destruction of the protoplasm commences at the anode (+). At the cathode the pseudopodia have become normal again. (After Verworn, Tab. 1, Fig. 2.)