[TS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 51 they are very numerous, they show considerable differences in their size. Very frequently a few small vacuoles filled with fluid are to be seen. The examination of living egg-cells shows that these vacuoles are not artificially produced. Additional vacuoles may be formed after the death of the egg, whilst those already present may inci'ease in size, as has been pointed out by Flemming (II. 10, p. 151). These germinal spots differ in their chemical properties from true nucleoli, which consist of paranuclein and do not become stained with the usual nuclear staining reagents. On the other hand, it has not yet been discovered whether their substance is quite iden- tical with the nuclein of the framework. Up to the present this point has not yet been satisfactorily worked out, in spite of the numerous experiments which have been made upon the nucleus. One thing alone can be accepted as certain—that the more or less rounded bodies present in various plant and animal nuclei, which in scientihc literature are classed together, for the most part incorrectly, under the name of nucleoli, tshow material differences amongst themselves. This has been proved beyond a doubt by the investigations made by Flemming (II. 10) Carnoy (II. 8), myself (II. 19a), Zacharias (11.45), and others.' Either such very different bodies should not be called by the same name or if, merely on account of their similarity in form, the common name of nucleolus or nuclear body is retained for all round nuclear contents, at any rate in each case an accurate description of the choral Mtnre 0f the nucleolus in question should be given Above all, as has been already remarked, in all examinations of the nucleus, more attention should be paid to the chemical properties of its.individual constituents than to their form and arrangement which are always of comparatively little importance. lor the unction of a framework in the nucleus composed of linin threads differs considerably from that of one consisting of nuclein or of combination of the two Substances, and simi^ the uL f the nuc.eo usvaries.according to the material of which it is comp .se^ I will conclude this discussion of nucleoli with the remark th i JST? V: 6Xi8t WHiCh m°Sfc bu l up oft different substances. This circumstance was first observed Z Leyd.g in a amellibranchiate Mollusc, and his statemeu has since be n venhed by Flemming (II. 10) from observations on th 1m animal and by myself (II. 19) from those on other objects T . quote the description as it is given by Flemming ' ' ^