236 THE CELL t I " thlCk!;" (P'8'- 125 *> ™> The cent.oso.es separ- t thW ' ^ S°me di8tailCe fr°m' the nucleus. nuH T' J68* °f th° GUCle0,US haS ^appeared; the nuc ear brane becomes disgo]vedj ™ > containing four nuclear segments, arrange themselves in the equator between the centrosomes; then each bundle splits up into two daughter-bundles containing two nuclear segments which ^parate and move towards the poles (Figs. 125 IV 1Ä °- lhe sperm-mother-cell now becomes constricted into II. III. Fig. 126.-Diagram showing the devtlopment of sperm-cells from a sperm-mother-cell of Ascans megalocepkala hivalens. I. Division of the aperm-motber-cell into two sperm, daughter-cell*. II. The two sperm-daughter-cells (A, L) immediately prepare to dn ide a second time. III. The sperm-daughter-cell A divides into two grand-daughter-eells , , f C B"? g''a"'l-t^«ghter-cells, which have been produced by the division of the daughter-cell B of Fig. II. two daughter-cells of equal size (Fig. 126 II.). Whilst this process of constriction is taking place, the changes commence which lead up to the second division (Fig. 126 I.), the cen- trosome of each daughter-cell splits up into two parts which travel, each surrounded by its own radiation sphere, in opposite directions, which.are parallel to the first division plane (Fig. 126 A, B). The nuclear segments produced by the first division immediately afford the material for the second division, without passing through the vesicular resting condition. They move until they are situated between the newly-developed poles of the second division figure (Fig. 126 II, B), and then divide into two groups, each of which contains two nuclear segments; these groups then separate, and move towards the poles, after which the second constriction commences (Fig. 126 III, A). Whilst after the first division each daughter-cell contains four of the eight nuclear segments, which have developed beforehand in the resting nucleus, each grand-daughter-cell contains only two. For, in consequence