7,; THE CELL enveloped by a delicate lamella of oily substance, is exceedingly doubtful. For if we only take into account the single fact that protoplasm is composed of a great number of chemical substances, which, during the metabolic processes upon which its life depends', are continually undergoing chemico-physical changes, we cannot but think that conditions much more complex in their nature must be necessary for its movements, than those required for a moving drop of saponified oil, and, indeed, the complexity of these conditions must be proportionate to the immense difference in the complexity of the chemical composition and organisation of the two substances in question [cf. statements already made on this subject on p. 22 ; and Die Beioegung der lebendigen Substanz by Verworn (III. 24)]. Further, all the protoplasmic movements —the streaming movements, the radial arrangement round attrac- tion centres, the movements of cilia and flagella, and muscular contraction — together constitute a single group of correlated phenomena which demand a common explanation. This, however, is not afforded us by the experiments of either Quincke or Bütschli. The movements, induced by them in a mixture of sub- stances, bear the same relation to the movements of living bodies, as the structure of the artificial cell produced by Traube does to the structure of the living1 cell. Fig. 42, which is taken from a paper by Verworn (III. 24), shows what very different appearances, closely resembling the various kinds of pseudopodic extensions, may be produced by the simple spreading out of a drop of oil upon a watery solution; a-d is a drop of salad oil which has spread itself out upon soda solu- tions of different degrees of concentration ; in a it has assumed the form of Amoeba guttnla, in b and c of Amoeba proteus, and in d of a plasmodium of a Myxomycete. Figs, e and /, which repre- sent drops of almond oil, resemble the formation of pseudopodia in Heliozoa and Radiolaria, whilst g is taken from Lehmann's Molecular Physics, and represents a drop of creasote in water, in which it has assumed a form resembling a typical Actinosphivrium (Verworn III. 24, p. 47). Other attempts to explain the protoplasmic movements (Engel- mann III. 6, Hofmeister II. 20, Sachs) lead us into the domain of theories upon the molecular structure of organised bodies, since the cause of the movements is supposed to lie in the changes of form of the most minute particles. A discussion of Verworn's latest attempt (III. 24) would lead us too far in another direction.