78 THE CELL place to place much more rapidly than can be effected by means of pseudopodia. Flagella and cilia are delicate hair-like processes, which extend in greater or less numbers from the surface of the cell. They are composed of a homogeneous, non-granular sub- stance, and in this respect resemble short, thin pseudopodia, when these consist of hyaloplasm alone. However, they differ from pseudopodia in two respects : firstly, they move in a different and more energetic fashion, and secondly, they are not transitory, but permanent organs, being neither protruded nor withdrawn. Fundamentally, however, the movements of flagella and pseudo- podia are identical in kind, as is shown by the observations made by de Bary (I. 2) on swarmspores of Myxomycetes, and by Haeckel, Engelmann, R. Hertwig (III. 12b), and others on Rhizopoda. Many of the lower organisms reproduce themselves by means of small spores, which resemble Amoubce in their appearance and in their mode of movement (Fig. 43). After a time such spores usually protrude two thread-like pseudopodia (Fig. 43 a), which exhibit slow oscillatory movements, and develop into flagella, whilst the remainder of the body withdraws all its other pseudopodia, and so becomes spherical in shape. As the movements become stronger, the spore travels more and more rapidly, by means of its two flagella, through the water (Fig. 43 b); thus a " swarm- spore " has developed out of the little amoeboid cell. It may be safely deduced from these discoveries that flagella are developed from delicate protoplasmic processes, which become especially contractile, and in consequence differ someivhat in their properties from the remaining protoplasm. Hence they may be considered as constituting a special plasmic product or cell-organ, composed of contractile substance. Flagella and cilia always arise directly from the body of the cell. If the cell is enveloped by a membrane, they protrude through pores in it. At their bases they are always somewhat thickened, frequently starting from the surface of the protoplasm a B Fig. 43.—Microgromia socialis. An amoe- boid cell (a) which has been produced by division, and has wandered from the colony ; and which, having withdrawn all its pseudopodia, with the exception of two, which have developed into flagella, be- comes transformed into a swarmspore (b). (From Hertwig, PI. 6, d und e.)