MS THE CELL water lfc develops root-forming cells at its lower extremity: thus the cells are here executing functions, very different from their original ones which proves that they possessed this capacity potentially. Further, on the other hand, shoots can develop from severed roots, and even subsequently can produce male and female sexua products. In this case, therefore, sexual cells proceed directly from the component parts of a root-cell, and hence serve for the reproduction of the whole. Certain hydroid polyps according to von Loeb (IX. 17), display similar powers. Most botanists agree with the theory, recently advanced by de Ynes (IX. 30), in opposition to Weismann, which states that all or at any rate by far the greater number, of the cells of a vegetable body contain all the hereditary attributes of their species in a latent condition. The same is true of the lower animal organisms, although we are unable to prove it for the higher ones. However! on this account, it is not necessary to conclude that the cells of the higher and lower organisms differ so much from one another, that the latter possess all the attributes in a latent condition! and therefore the whole hereditary mass, whilst the former only contain a part of it. For it is quite as likely that the incapacity of most of the cells of the higher animals to develop latent properties, is due to their external conditions, which have produced a great differentation of the cell-body, in which the hereditary mass is enveloped, or to other similar conditions. Johannes Müller (IX. 18), has raised the question: "How does it happen, that certain of the cells of the organised body, although they resemble both other cells and the original germ-cell, can produce nothing but their like, i.e. cells which are capable of developing into the complete organism? Thus epidermal cells can only, by absorbing material, develop new epidermal cells, and cartilage cells only other cartilage cells, but never embryos or buds." To which he has made answer: "This may be due to the fact, that these cells, even if they possess the power of forming the whole, have, by means of a peculiar metamorphosis of their substance, become so specialised, that they have entirely lost their germinal properties, as regards the whole organism, and when they become separated from the whole, are unable to lead an independent existence." Whatever opinion is held as regards the conditions present in the higher animal, it is quite sufficient for our purpose to acknow- ledge, that in the plants and lower animals, all the cells which are