304 THE CELL Its hyaline superficial layer raises itself up as a small protuber- ance, thus projecting a receptive prominence (cone dattraction) towards the spermatozoon. Sometimes this protuberance is soft and drawn out in the form of a needle or tongue, and sometimes it is broad and short. After contact with the spermatozoon has taken place, it is withdrawn. Fol considers that it is impossible to doubt the accuracy of this observation, and remarks further : »Since we cannot deny the fact that the spermatozoon exercises an influence upon the yolk, from which it is separated by a relatively great distance, we must accept the theory that influence at a distance (action a distance) is a possibility." I will confine myself to the above-mentioned observations, the number of which could be easily greatly multiplied, and Avill only quote the following words of the botanist Sachs (II. 33) :— " Influence at a distance, or the mutual attraction of sexual cells for one another, is one of the most startling facts connected with the processes of fertilisation. I have chosen this term for the facts about to be more minutely described, as it is not too long, and, at any rate, realistic. We must not, however, take the words, in- fluence at a distance and mutual attraction, exactly in the same sense as in physics. "In the numerous descriptions which various observers have given of the behaviour of antherozoids in the neighbourhood of the oosphere, and of wandering gametes and antherozoids in the neighbourhood of oogonia, we meet with the most definite asser- tions, that the sexual cells always exert a certain influence upon one another, which makes itself felt over a certain distance, and which always tends to induce the union of the two. This occur- rence is the more remarkable, in that this mutual attraction immediately disappears after fertilisation has taken place." The question naturally arises as to what are the forces to which the phenomena can be attributed. Pfeffer has expressed the view, based upon the above-mentioned experiments (p. 117), that in the objects examined by him the antherozoids are attracted to the egg-cells by chemical substances, which the latter secrete. Too great an importance, however, must not be attached to these opinions, as would be the case if we considered that the conjuga- tion of two sexual cells was explained by them. In my opinion, the chemical substances, which are secreted by the egg-cells, only exert a secondary influence upon fertilisation; they play a part