164 THE CELL at the centre, and diminishes as the surface is approached. The hilum is richest in water, whilst the superficial layer, bordering on the protoplasm, is most dense in composition. To this cause we can trace the fissures which occur in the hilum of the starch grain as it dries, and which extend outward from it towards the periphery (Nägeli V. 17). As has been already mentioned, the starch grains of plants do not, as a rule, arise directly in the protoplasm, but in certain special differentiation products of it, the starch-forming corpuscles (amyloplasts, and chlorophyll bodies). According to the investiga- tions of Schimpfer (V. 27), the special variety of stratification which occurs in the grain depends upon whether it is situated in the interior or upon the surface of one of these corpuscles. In the first case, the starch lamella? arrange themselves evenly around the hilum since they receive equal accretions on every side from the starch-forming corpuscle. In the second case, that portion of the grain, which adjoins the free surface of the amyloplast, is under less favourable conditions for growth, for the surface of the grain, which is directed towards the centre of the starch-forming corpuscle, acquires the most substance, and in consequence the layers are thicker at this point, and grow gradually thinner as they approach the opposite side. Hence the hilum, about which the layers are arranged, becomes pushed further and further beyond the surface of the amyloplast, assuming a more and more eccentric position in the stratification. That the starch grains grow by the deposition of new layers upon the surface, that is by apposition, may be deduced from a statement of Schimpfer's. He observed, that around the corroded centres of starch grains whose surfaces had been dissolved away new layers had been deposited. Strasburger is of opinion that starch grains may be occasionally produced in the protoplasm itself, without the intervention of special starch-forming corpuscles. He found them in the cells of the medullary rays of Coniferre, during their early stages of development, as minute granules, embedded in the strands of the plasmic network. As they grew larger they were to be plainly seen situated in the plasmic cavities. These cavities have higbly refracting walls, upon which microsomes are situated. One of the most remarkable of the internal plasmic products is the nematocyst (Fig. 70), which functions in Coßlenterata as a weapon of attack, in the cnidoblasts, which are distributed -