20 THE CELL title, " The spongiose structure of protoplasm." Sometimes the description refers to coarser frameworks, which, being due to the deposition in the protoplasm of various kinds of substances, should not be considered as pertaining to protoplasm, nor should they be included in its description. This holds true, for example, of the description of the goblet cells of List (II. 48) (see p. 36, fig. 17). This subject is more fully discussed later on. Sometimes net-like structures are described and depicted, which, as they are evidently caused by coagulation (due to some pre- cipitation process), must be considered as artificial products. For instance, artificial framework structures may be easily pro- duced, if a solution of albumen or gelatine be caused to coagulate by the addition of chromic acid, picric acid, or alcohol. Thus Heitzmann (II. 17) demonstrates, in a somewhat diagrammatic manner, the presence of networks in the most various cells of the animal body, which does not correspond to actual fact. Biitschli also remarks in his abstract of the literature on the subject (II. 7b, p. 113): "Above all, it is frequently very difficult to determine whether the net-like appearances described by earlier observers are really delicate protoplasmic structures, or whether they are caused by coarser vacuolisation. Since the same appear- ance is produced in either case, it is only possible to form a fairly correct opinion by considering their relative sizes." Biitschli found that in all cases the spaces in the meshes of the protoplasm measured barely 1 fi. Thus, although no doubt many statements may be legitimately questioned, yet it is undeniable that many investigators (From- mann, Schmitz, Leydig) have really based their descriptions upon the more delicate structures of the cell. In the explanation of these so-called net-work appearances, Biitschli takes up a position which is different from that of the other observers who have been mentioned, and which has caused him to advance a foam or honeycomb theory of protoplasm (II. 7a, 7b). .' He succeeded in producing a very delicate emulsion by mixing inspissated olive oil with K2C03, common salt, or cane-sugar. This emulsion consists of a groundwork of oil, containing an exceedingly large number of spaces, which are completely closed in and filled with watery liquid ; if the emulsion is too fine to be seen except under the microscope, the diameter of the spaces is o-enerally less than -001 mm. In appearance they are very like