278 THE CELL mass and composition. Only we must understand by the ex pression male or female nucleus nothing more than a nucleus derived from a male or female cell. In the same way, in In- fusoria, the migratory nucleus may be termed male and the stationary nucleus female, in the sense of the above definition, since the former seeks the latter. This difference, which has developed in sexual cells for the purpose of division of labour, and to fit them for their special work, is repeated in the whole organic kingdom, whenever the indi- viduals in which the male and female sexual cells develop differ from one another in sexual characteristics. In all the arrange- ments referring to sex, one and the same object is aimed at: measures are taken on the one hand to facilitate the meeting of the sexual cells, and on the other to arrange for the nourishing and protection of the egg. The one organisation we call mate, and the other female. All these relationships are secondary, and have nothing to do with the process of fertilisation itself, which is a true cell phenomenon. Fertilisation is an union of two cells, and, above all, a fusing of two equivalent similar nuclear substances, which are derived from two cells, but it is not a combination of sexual opposites, for the differences depend solely upon structures of subsidiary import- ance. The truth of the above law may be still moi*e clearly demon- strated, if we compare the generative processes throughout the whole organic kingdom, and thereby endeavour to determine how the differences have gradually developed between the cells which unite for the purpose of fertilisation. Amongst unicellular organ- isms and plants, we find innumerable instructive examples of the elementary and primitive forms of sexual generation and of the origin of sexual differences in the plant and animal kingdoms. 5. Primitive and fundamental modes of sexual generation and the first appearance of sexual differences. The study of the lowest organisms, such as Noctihicie, Diatomaceae, Gregarinee, Con- jugate, and other low Algie, shows that in many of them the con- jugation of two individuals occurs in regular cycles, and this we must regard as a process of fertilisation. In Noctiluca conjugation commences by two individuals, which are of the same size, and do not differ from one another in any respect, placing themselves side by side, with their mouth apertures opposite one another, and beginning to fuse, whilst their