THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 209 It is in consequence of this delay in completing the process of cell division after the nucleus has divided that cells containing several nuclei are found. Sometimes, during inflammatory pro- cesses, such cells become so large that they are called giant cells (Fig. 101); the small nuclei vary considerably both as to form and arrangement. Sometimes they are globular vesicles, sometimes oval, sausage- shaped, or lobulated bodies ; they, may occur singly and evenly distributed throughout the protoplasm, or they may be arranged in chains and circles; finally, isolated small nuclei are occasionally found arranged one after another in rows. As time goes on, small cells may become detached from the giant cells, as has been observed by Arnold. This may occur in one of two ways. fig. iol—a large multi- " Sometimes the giant cell protrudes knob- nucleated ceil, with nude- ° 1 . ated cells becoming con- like processes containing nuclei, which, striCted off peripherally. after having been withdrawn and again (After Arnold, pi. XIV«, protruded several times, sooner or later rig'13'^ become separated; sometimes they become detached without any or only very slight movement on the part of the cell." Cell division, accompanied by the phenomenon of direct nuclear division, has been observed in epithelial cells, as well as in lymph corpuscles; this occurs with especial frequency in Arthropods. They have been described by Johnson (VI. 41) and Blochmann (VI. 86) in the embryonic cells of the Scorpion ; by Platner (VI. 52) in the cells of the Malpighian tubes, and by other in- vestigators in other objects. A peculiar method of nuclear constriction has been described by Göppert(VI. 22), Flemming (VI. 16), von Kostanecki (VI. 46), and others. The most suitable object for observing it appears to be the lymphoid tissue on the surface of the liver of Amphibians, According to Göppert, the nucleus of a lymph cell develops a funnel-shaped invagination, which grows deeper and deeper until it reaches the opposite surface of the nuclear membrane, where it opens to the exterior by a minute aperture (Fig. 102 A, B\ Thus a ring-shaped nucleus, perforated by a narrow canal, is formed. This ring becomes first constricted, and then cut asunder at a certain point, whilst at the same time it transforms itself into a semicircle, which becomes divided by superficial constrictions