THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL 181 plasm which is directly in contact with the membrane. At this period they are close to one another, and are in the form of two extremely small spherules. They are composed of a substance which is only stained with difficulty, and which is, perhaps, de- rived from the substance of the nucleolus. These spherules are the pole or central corpuscles (corpuscules, poles, centrosomes), which have been already described. Gradually they separate from one another, describing a semicircle round the upper sur- face of the nucleus, until they take up their position at opposite ends of the nuclear diameter. The nuclear spindle develops itself between the centrosomes. It consists of a large number of very delicate fibrils, which are parallel to one another, and which are probably derived from the ■ linin framework of the resting nucleus. These fibrils diverge somewhat at their centres, and converge at their ends towards the centrosomes, in consequence of which the bundle assumes more or less the shape of a spindle. At first, when the centrosomes are just commencing to separate, the spindle is so small, that it can only be made out with difficulty, as a band connecting them together. However, as the centrosomes separate from one another, the spindle increases in size, and becomes more clearly defined. The protoplasm also commences to arrange itself around the poles of this nuclear figure as though attracted by them. Thus an appearance, similar to that seen at the ends of a magnet, which has been dipped in iron filings, is produced. The proto- plasm forms itself into a large number of delicate fibrils, which group themselves radially ai'ound the centrosome as a middle point or centre of attraction. At first they are short and confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the attraction centre. How- ever, during the course of the process of division they increase in length, until finally they extend throughout the whole length of the cell. This arrangement of the protoplasm around the pole is variously described as the plasmic radiation, radiated figure, star, sun, etc., in consequence of its resemblance to the rays of light, attraction spheres, etc. These are briefly the various elements out of which the nuclear division figures are built up. The centrosomes, the spindle, and the two plasmic radiations have been grouped together by Flemming under the name of the achromatin portion of the dividing nuclear figure, in contradistinction to the various appearances