274 THE CELL less dense and does not become so strongly stained as the head of the spermatozoon. Th1S difference m size and consistency soon disappears during the course of the process of internal fertilisation ; for the sperm- nuc eus, which was at first small, whilst on its way to the e^g- nucleus soon swells up to the same size as the latter by absorb- ing fluid out of the yolk (Fig. 142 II), as is seen in the eggs of most Worms, Molluscs, and Vertebrates. It is true that in iso- lated cases, as in the eggs of the Sea-urchin (Fig. 141), the nuclei are of d.fterent sizes, when they unite; under these circumstances the sperm-nucleus has taken up a smaller quantity of sap than usual, and is consequently somewhat denser in consistency; so that, in spite of the difference in size, we may still assume that an equal amount of solid active constituents is present in both. It may be demonstrated in suitable objects, that the relative size of egg and sperm-nuclei depends chiefly upon the time at which the egg-cell was fertilised, whether before, during, or after the formation of the polar cells. For instance, if spermatozoa be brought into contact with an egg of Asteracanthion whilst the polar cells are developing, the sperm-nucleus must remain for a considerable time in the yolk before fusion commences, and in consequence it swells up during this period by absorbing nuclear sap, until it is of the same size as the egg-nucleus, which develops after the second polar cell has separated off. On the other hand, if fertilisation occurs after the egg-cell is provided with both the polar cells and the egg-nucleus, the sperm-nucleus remains for only a few minutes as an independent body in the yolk, com- mencing almost immediately after its entrance to fuse with the egg-nucleus. Under these circumstances it keeps small in size, for it is not able to saturate itself in the same way with nuclear sap. Thus we may consider the following important law as proved, i.e. that the two sexual cells, in spite of the fact that frequently they vary considerably in appearance and contain such unequal quantities of protoplasm, contribute equal amounts of nuclear substance (nuclein, in a definite number of nuclear segments, paranuclein, in the ovocentrum and spermcentrum) during the process of fertilisation, and in so far are equivalent. From this law I deduce the following: the nuclear substances which are derived in equal quantities from two different indi- viduals are invariably the only active substances, upon whose union the act of fertilisation depends ; they are the true fertilisa-