1 79 THE CELL that the new particles become deposited in definite positions, in definite quantities, and in definite directions, between those already present." Moreover, the process of intussusception is not to be disre- garded in those cases where calcium and silicon salts are deposited m the cell-wall, for this mostly occurs at a later period, the salts beins frequently only found in the superficial layers. It could only be proved that it is impossible for particles of cellulose to be deposited in a similar manner, if it could be shown that cellulose is actually only produced by the direct metamorphosis of layers of protoplasm. However, up till now this is anything bat proved; and, moreover, it seems that the study of plant anatomy, by means of microscopic observation alone, is insufficient to establish this theory, and that in addition a very much improved and advanced knowledge of micro-chemistry must be reached, as in the case mentioned on pp. 153, 154. Consideration of the statements made there shows especially, that under certain conditions in the for- mation of cellulose there is not the marked difference that is frequently considered to exist between growth by apposition and growth by intussusception. Cuticular structures are the skin-like formations with which a cell covers its external surface—not all over, however, but only on one side. In the animal kingdom, those cells which are situated on the surface of the body, or which cover the internal surface of the alimentary canal, are frequently provided with a cuticle, which protects the underlying protoplasm from the hurtful influences of the surrounding media. The cuticle usually consists of thin lamella, intersected by fine parallel pores, into which delicate processes stretch from the underlying protoplasm. As cuticular formations of a peculiar kind, which exhibit at the same time a very marked structure, the outer portions of the rods and cones in the retina may be cited. Cuticular membrane-like formations, consisting of cells united c Fig. 73.—Epithelium with cuticle of a Saw-fly (Cimbex coronatus) (from R. Hertwig ; Fig. 21/): c cuticle; e epithelium.