THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 257 a. Echinoderm Eggs. Ia most Echinoderms, the minute trans- parent ova are laid in sea-water, in a completely mature con- dition, having already budded off the pole cells (p. 229), and developed a small egg nucleus. They are surrounded by a soft gelatinous sheath, which can be easily penetrated by the sper- matozoa (Fig. 138 A). The spermatozoa are exceptionally small, and consist, as is the case in most animals, of (1) a head resembling a conical bullet ; (2) a small spherule, the middle portion or neck; and (3) a delicate, contractile, thread-like tail. The head contains nuclein, the middle portion paranuclei, whilst the tail consists of modified protoplasm, and may be compared to a flagellum. If ova and spermatozoa are brought together in sea-water, several of the latter immediately attach themselves to the gelatinous envelope of each ovum. Of these, however, only one normally fertilises each egg, namely, that one which, by means of the undulating movements of its tail, was the first to approach its surface (Fig. 138 Ä-G). At the spot where the apex of the head impinged, the hyaline protoplasm constituting the peripheral layer of the ovum raises itself up to form a small protuberance, the receptive protuberance. Here the head, impelled by the undulating movements of the tail, bores its way into the ovum, which at tliis moment, excited by the stimulus, excretes a deli- cate membrane, the vitelline membrane, upon its surface (Fig. 138 C), and, apparently by means of the contraction of its contents, presses some fluid out of the yolk. In consequence, a gradually increasing intervening space, which commences at the receptive protuberance, develops between the yolk and the yolk mem- brane. By this means the entrance of another spermatozoon is pi^e vented. Processes occurring in the interior of the yolk follow the external union of the two cells; these may be grouped together under the common name of internal fertilisation. The tail ceases to move, and soon disappears from view; the head, however, slowly pushes its way into the yolk (Fig. 139 A) ; meanwhile, it absorbs fluid (Fig. 139 B), and swells up to form a small vesicle, which may be called the sperm-nucleus, or male pro-nucleus, since its essential constituent is the nuclein of the head of the spei'matozoon ; hence it becomes intensely stained by carmine, etc. Fol has lately shown that immediately in front of it, on the side which is directed to the centre of the egg (Fig.