206 THE CELL with Flemming's weak solution, the nuclein loses its power of becoming stained, whilst the nucleoli become stained dark red in B e> - %0 Fig. 99.-4 Nucleoli, with granules, which are dissolving (PI. III., Fig. 4). B Nucleus of a sperm-mother-cell of ^scan's megaloccphala. bivalent from the end of the growth zone. Preserved in Flemming's weak solution of chromo-osmic acid. Stained with acid fucheine (PI. III., Fig. 6). 0 Nucleus of a sperm-mother-cell of Ascitis viegaloce)>hila bivalens from the middle of the division zone. Preserved in Flemming's weak solution of chromo- osmic acid. Stained with acid fuchsine (PI. III., Fig. 9). acid fuchsine (Fig. 99 A, B). By this means I was able to observe that during the preparatory stages the nucleolus breaks up into several pieces, that small portions of these dissolve off, and that similar particles, stained a deep red, are deposited upon the nuclear threads. Later on, when the nuclear segments are fully formed, and the nucleolus has quite disappeared (Fig. 99 0), the centro- somes become visible upon the surface of the nucleus, and more- over, each nuclear segment is seen to enclose a dark red granule, which reacts towards staining solutions like the substance of the nucleolus. Several interesting reactions with staining solutions seem to point to the fact that the nucleolar substance is taken up into the nuclear segments, although probably in an extremely finely divided state. As Wendfc has discovered by his experiments on plants, the nuclein framework of the nucleus from the embryo sac of any one of several species of the Liliacece is stained blue green when treated with fuchsine iodine-green, whilst the nucleoli are coloured red. On the other hand, during the division stages, when the nucleoli are dissolved, the nuclear segments are stained violet. Further, later on, after the nucleoli have reappeared in the daughter nuclei, the nuclear threads are again stained bluish green. Wendt explains this varying reaction towards staining solutions by assuming that during division the nuclear segments absorb the nucleolar substance, and give it up again after division, so that the nucleoli may be found in the daughter nuclei.