75 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL has undertaken some interesting experiments based on the assump- tion of his foam or emulsion theory of protoplasm, and these, as it appears to him, throw light upon the cause of the protoplasmic movements. He prepared frothy structures of oil in various ways. The most delicate and instructive masses were obtained by mix- ing a few drops of olive oil, which had been kept for some time in a warm chamber, with some finely powdered K2C03, until a viscous mass was produced; a small drop of this mixture was then introduced into water. The emulsion which is produced in this manner is milky white in appearance, and consists of minute vacuoles, filled with the solution of soap, which is formed at the same time : it may be cleared by adding to it a few drops of dilute glycerine. By this means active streaming movements are pro- duced, which, in a successful preparation, last for at least six days, and which are certainly sui*prisingly like the protoplasmic move- ments of an Amoeba. "From one place on the edge the current flows through the axis of the drop; it then streams away from the edge down both sides, in order to unite again, gradually to form the axial current again. Here and there a blunt process is pro- truded and withdrawn, and so on; indeed, individual drops may exhibit fairly active locomotive powers for a time." Bütschli, in accordance with Quincke's experiments, explains these phenomena of movement in the following manner: " On some place on the surface some of the delicate chambers of the froth structure burst, and thus the soap solution at this region is able to reach the sur- face of the drop, which is composed of a very thin lamella of oil. The necessary consequence of this is a diminution of surface- tension at this spot, and hence a slight bulging and out-streaming occur. Both of these induce a flow of foam-substance from the interior to this spot. A few more meshes may be broken down by this current, and so on, the result being that a streaming, once induced, is persistent unless considerable obstacles present them- selves." Bütschli is quite convinced that the streaming move- ments seen in these saponified fat drops are identical in all essentials with amoeboid protoplasmic movements. These experiments of Quincke and Bütschli are of the greatest interest, for they prove that very complex phenomena of move- ment may be induced by means of comparatively simple methods. On the other hand, various objections may be raised against their deduction, that in protoplasmic movements similar processes occur. Even the hypothesis, that the protoplasmic substance is