212 THH CELL method of nuclear multiplication, to which I should like to attach the above name, has been observed by Richard Hertwig (VI. 36) amongst a group of Radiolarians, the Thalassicollidce; these ob- servations have been corroborated by Carl Brandt (VI. 8), who has followed them up in greater detail. The Thalassicollidce, which are the largest in size of all the Radiolarians, the diameter of their central capsule being nearly as long as that of the Frog's egg, possess during the greater part of their lives one single highly differentiated giant nucleus, the so-called internal vesicle; this is about | mm. in diameter, and possesses a thick porous nuclear membrane. It is very similar to the multinucleated germinal vesicle of a Fish or of an Amphibian. A large number of variously shaped nuclein bodies, generally compressed together into a heap in the centre, are present in its interior (Fig. 105). Amongst these, a bright central corpuscle (centrosome), surrounded by a radiation sphere, may very frequently be seen. This was observed and depicted by R. Hertwig, and has recently been more closely in- vestigated by Brandt. The latter ob- server was able to follow how, at the time of reproduction, the centrosome, which appears to me to correspond with the body of that name in plant and animal cells, betakes itself to the surface of the internal vesicle, drawing the radiation sphere after it. Here, after passing through the nuclear membrane, it enters into the surround- ing protoplasm of the central capsule ; however, as yet nothing has been re- ported as to its further fate. About this time a large number of small nuclei make their appearance outside of the internal vesicle, being situated in the protoplasm of the cen- tral capsule, which originally was quite free from nuclei; these function as centres around which nucleated zoospores develop, whose number finally may amount to some hundreds of thousands. Meanwhile, Fia. 105.—A small portion of a section through a great vesicular nucleus, the so-called internal vesicle of ThalassicoUa nucleata with funicular internal bodies (nuolear bodies) which radiate from a common point. (R. Hert- wig, PI. V., Fig. 7.)