THE CELL fertilisation consists in "mixing slightly different physiological units of slightly different individuals " 1 Herbert Spencer (IX. 26) availed himself of these experiments of Darwin s, in order to build up a molecular theory of the nature of fertilisation, which deserves notice as a preliminary attempt Spencer, to a certain extent, states as an axiom, that the need of fertilisation of the sexual cell « recurs only when the organic units (micella.) are approximating to equilibrium-only when their mutual restraints prevent them from readily changing their arrangements m obedience to incident forces." 2 If this hypothesis, which appears to me to be at present, but a possibility, could be proved, we could certainly accept without further consideration Spencer's explanation: « Gamogenesis (sexual reproduction) has for its main end, the initiation of a new development by the overthrow of that approximate equilibrium arrived at amongst the molecules of the parent organism." 3 For " by uniting a group of units from the one organism with a -roup of slightly different units from the other the tendency towards equilibrium will be diminished, and the mixed units will be ren- dered more modifiable in their arrangements by the forces acting on them; they will be so far freed as to become again capable of that redistribution which constitutes evolution." 4 In this sense, fertilisation may be considered to be a process of rejuvenation, to employ the expression used by Bütschli (VII. 6), Maupas (VII. 30), and others. Spencer's statement at present lacks an exact and scientific foundation, but it seems to deserve notice as a preliminary at- tempt to solve this extremely difficult question. An important conclusion may be deduced from the above- mentioned principle, that the process of fertilisation consists in the " mixing of slightly different physiological units of slightly different individuals." If sexual reproduction is a mingling of the properties of two cells, it must result in the development of inter- mediate forms. Thus reproduction, so to speak, strikes a balance between 1 The first of these quotations is taken from Darwin's Origin of Species, p. 432, and the second and third from Darwin's Cross- and Self-fertilisation of Plants, pp. 462, 463. 2 Principles of Biology, by Herbert Spencer, vol. i. p. 275. a Ibid., p. 284. 1 Ibid., p. 277.