AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM OOÖ respond to an organ which develops later, or to part of such an organ, and on the other hand, every organ developed from the germinal area must have its preformed germ in a definite region of this area. The material for the germ is already present in the flat germinal disc, but it is not morphologically distinct, and hence is not to be recognised as such at this stage. By tracing the mature organs back to their elemental form, we shall be able to discover the situation of each during the period of incomplete morphological separation, and indeed, if we wish to be consistent, we must apply this method to the fertilised and even to the un- fertilised ovum also." It is hardly necessary to emphasise how sharply opposed this principle of the formation of organs in the germinal area is to the above-mentioned theory of heredity. One of the first points to be noticed is, that the influence of the paternal elemental germs, upon the formation of the embryo, is entirely left out of account. For this reason alone, the theory is evidently untenable. But, in addition, various experimental facts, which, as Pflüger has pointed out, indicate that the egg is isotropous, entirely disprove it. By the term isotropy of the egg, Pflüger (VII. 50), wishes to imply, that the contents of the egg are not arranged in such a manner as that the individual organs can be traced back to this or that portion of it. He draws his conclusions from experiments made upon Prog's eggs. The Prog's egg is composed of two hemispherical portions, one of which, the animal half, is pig- mented black, whilst the other, or vegetative portion, is clear or colourless, and is, at the same time, specifically heavier. In conse- quence of this difference in specific gravity, the eggs, immediately after fertilisation, assume a definite position in the water, the pigmented portion always being directed upwards, so that the egg-axis, which connects the animal with the vegetative pole, is vertical. It is possible, however, to experimentally force the eggs which have just been fertilised to take up an abnormal position, that is to say, to prevent them from rotating in the yolk- membrane by applying friction to it. The experimenter, for instance, can force the egg to assume such a position that the egg-axis shall lie horizontally, instead of vertically. Now when the process of division begins, the first division plane, in spite of the changed position of the egg, is in a vertical direction, for its position depends on that of the nuclear spindle, as shown on p. 219. As Born (IX. 37), has minutely described, however, although the