THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 153 protoplasm, which grows and develops itself at the expense of the substances which it absorbs. Then, from the splitting up of this most complex of all organised bodies, all the complicated ternary and quaternary compounds must arise, the formation of these being ordinarily ascribed to a direct synthesis. Hence Sachs was obliged to allow that it was possible, although he con- sidered it improbable, that in the assimilation of starch decompo- sition and restitution occur in the molecules of the green proto- plasm." These remarks show how difficult the whole subject is in so far as it concerns the chemical processes in question. If it is allowable to draw conclusions from analogous cases, I must certainly decide in favour of the second hypothesis, accord- ing to which the protoplasm participates more indirectly than in the first in the formation of the greater number of intercellular substances. For in the cases where organisms construct a sili- cious or calcareous membrane the nature of the substance itself distinctly shows that it could not pi'oceed directly as a firm organised substance out of protoplasm. This latter in such a case, in consequence of its chemical composition, can only play the part of an intermediary, by selecting the substances from its environment, absorbing them, accumulating them at the places where they are required, and depositing them in a distinct form as firm compounds, which are invariably joined to an organic substratum. Such a conception appears to me to be nearer the truth in the case of the formation of the cellulose membrane also, if the facility with which various carbo-hydrates become transformed into one another is taken into account, as well as the complicated process, which would be necessary if protoplasm were to be converted into cellulose. And even those intercellular substances which are chemically more nearly related to protoplasm, such as chondrin, gluten, etc., may be governed by the same laws of construction. For, apart from the organised proteid substances, protoplasm and nuclear substance, there are always present in each cell a large number of unorganised proteids ; these serve as formative material, and occur in a condition of solution in the cell sap of plant cells, in the nuclear sap, and in the blood and lymph of animals. Instead of the protoplasm itself being directly seized upon and used up in the formation of nitrogenous intercellular substances, it is possible that the unorganised proteid materials