117 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL sessed by oxygen explains the fact that in microscopic prepara- tions almost all Bacteria, Flagellata, and Ciliata are found collected together round the edges, or round any air bubbles which may be present in the water. Verworn describes a most instructive experiment (IV. 40). A large number of Paramrecia are placed in a test-tube, which is filled with water, poor in oxygen. The test-tube is then, reversed and placed under mercury. Very soon the movements of the cilia commence to slacken, in consequence of the lack of oxygen. If now a bubble of pure oxygen is introduced through the mer- cury into the test-tube, it will be seen after a few seconds to be surrounded by a thick white envelope of Paramcecia, " which, driven by their thirst for oxygen, throw themselves energetically upon the bubble of this gas." 2. Liquids. Stahl and Pfeffer have made systematic experi- ments upon the stimulating action of fluid substances. Stahl (IV. 35) has again made great use of flowers of tan. Upon this organism even pure water has a stimulating effect, a phenomenon described by Stahl as positive and negative hydro- tropism. If a plasmodium is evenly spread out over a strip of damp filter paper, it is seen, as soon as the paper commences to dry, that the plasmodium makes its way to the dampest parts. If, whilst the drying process is going on, a slide covered with gelatine is held perpendicularly at about two mm. distance above the paper, a few branches are seen to extend themselves upwards to- wards the gelatine, attracted by the water vapour it gives off, until finally they reach it and spread themselves out upon it possibly, during the course of a few hours, the whole plasmodium may transfer itself to the damper surface. When Myxomycetes are about to fructify, negative instead of positive hydrotropism takes place. Under these conditions the plasmodia seek the driest portions of the environment, and withdraw themselves from any damp gelatine or moistened filter paper which may be brought into their neighbourhood. These phenomena of hydrotropism are easily explained by the fact that protoplasm contains a certain quantity of imbibition water, which may fluctuate up to a certain extent, and may even increase or decrease during the development of the cell-body The more saturated the protoplasm is with water, the more active as a rule are its movements. During the vegetative Deriod the Plasmodium of the JSthalium tends to increase its supply of water,