ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 25 in which, according to Altmann, it multiplies by fission (omne granulum e granulo). Many objections may be raised to this hypothesis of Altmann's, in so far as it refers to the interpretation of recorded observations. .Firstly, the most minute micro-organisms of a zooglea are connected by means of a great number of forms, which are intermediate as to size, with the larger fission and yeast fungi; and since these are not to be distinguished from cells in their construction, they also must, according to Altmann, be colonies of bioblasts. Further, Bütsehli has shown that the larger micro-organisms are most probably divided into nucleus and protoplasm, and hence are similar in structure to other cells. The flagella, also, which have been demonstrated in many micro-organisms, must be considered to be cell organs. Secondly, we have not been sufficiently enlightened upon the nature and function of the granula in the cell, excepting that for some reason or other we are to conclude that they are its true vital elements. According to Altmann's hypothesis, the relative importance which has been attached to cell-substances is completely reversed. The substance which he calls intergranula substance, and which in its physiological importance he considers to correspond to the gelatinous substance of the zooglea, is to all intents and purposes the protoplasm of the generally accepted cell theory, that is to say, the substance which is considered to form the most important generator of the vital processes ; on the other hand, the granula belong to the category of protoplasmic contents, and as such have had a much less important role ascribed to them lhus Altmann designates the melanin granules of a pigment cell as the bioblasts, and the connecting protoplasm as the inter- granula substance. Similarly he completely reverses the physio- logical importance of the substances in the nucleus, as will be shown later on, in that he considers that his granula are con- tained m the nuclear sap, whilst his intergranula substance corre- sponds to the nuclear network, containing the chromatin Under the term granula, Altmann has, according to our opinion classed together substances of very different morphological im- portance, some of which should be considered as products of the pro opW However, he has rendered important service by fad! . itatmg the investigation of protoplasm by means of new method although his b,oblastic theory, which is based upon these exner ' ments is not likely to attract many supporters, ^e the co,clu sion of the ninth chapter.) conciu-