220 THE CELL of the dividing surfaces in bipartition. For, having once learnt the causes which determine the position of the spindle axes, we can know beforehand how the division plates must lie, in order to intersect the spindle axes at right angles. As a general rule, unless the mother-cell is exceptionally long in any one direction, it happens that in each division that axis of the daughter-cell, which lies in the same direction as the chief axis of the mother-cell did, has become the shortest. Hence the axis of the second division spindle would never in such a case place itself in the direction of the preceding division spindle, but rather at right angles to it, according to the form of the proto- plasmic body. In consequence, the second division plane must intersect the first at right angles. Generally, the consecutive division surfaces of a mother-cell (which becomes split up into 2, 4, 8, and more daughter-cells by successive bipartitions) lie in the three directions of space, and so are more or less perpendicular to each other. This is often very plainly to be seen in plant tissues, because here firm cell-walls, corresponding to the division planes of the cells, rapidly develop, and thus, so to speak, fix the places to a certain degree permanently. But in animal cells, which in the absence of a firm membrane frequently change their form during the processes of division, this is not the case ; in addition the position of the cells to one another may change. " Fractures and displacements " of the original portions into which the mother- cell splits up occur, examples of which are afforded us by the study of the furrowing of any egg cell. This is entered into more fully on p. 224. In botany, these three directions of space are designated as tangential or periclinal, transverse or anticlinal, and radial (Figs. Ill, 112). Periclinal or tangential Avails are parallel to the surface of the stem. Anticlinal or transverse walls intersect the periclinal walls, and at the same time the axis of growth of the stem at right angles. Finally radial walls, whilst being also at right angles to the periclinal ones, lie in the same plane as the axis of growth of the stem. In order to render this clear by an example, we will select a somewhat difficult object, namely, the growing-point of a shoot. Sachs demonstrates the truth of his law with reference to this object in the following sentences which are taken from his lectures on plant physiology (II. 33) :—