THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 309 and the presence of strong mutual attraction in nearly related sexual cells—there are many gradations. Amongst the numerous egg-cells which are contained in an ovary, only a few develop and become ripe seeds, where self- fertilisation with the pollen of the same flower is induced artificially. From this we may conclude that the individual egg-cells possess somewhat different sexual affinities; that is to0say, that whilst some may be fertilised with the pollen of their own flower, others cannot; thus they exhibit differences similar to those which we shall come across in hybridisation. Finally, it may be possible for egg-cells to be fertilised, to begin to develop, and then to die off prematurely. In support of°this view, the phenomenon may be quoted, that many flowers, which have been induced artificially to fertilise themselves, fade more quickly than those which have been fertilised in a natural manner. Indeed, the flowers of certain Orchids become black and necrotic when treated in this fashion. This is probably due to the premature death and disintegration of the embryos which were about to be developed (Darwin VII. 8). The seeds, which develop as a result of self-fertilisation, fre- quently produce only weakly plants, showing some defect or other in their constitution; further, the pollen grains are often imperfectly developed. From these three facts, namely, that in many organisms nearly related sexual cells do not combine; that in others, even if fertili- sation does take place, the embryo is arrested in its development, and soon dies; and that finally, even if development proceeds uninterruptedly, the evolved organisms are weakly ; we are able to draw the general conclusion, that self-fertilisation on the whole acts disadvantageously. It is true, that in individual cases this disadvantage cannot be perceived, yet these excep- tions do not disprove the accuracy of this statement any more than the occurrence of parthenogenesis can be taken as an argument against the theory, that great advantage is to be derived from fertilisation. That there must be something detrimental in self-fertilisation may be inferred from a cursory glance over the organic kingdom. As Darwin (VII. 8) says, nature evidently abhors frequent self- fertilisation, for we see constantly on every side, that most com- plicated arrangements have been made in order to prevent its occurrence.