133 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL they can be shown by chemical analysis to consist chiefly of oxy- gen. The amount of oxygen exhaled is in proportion to the carbon dioxide which is simultaneously absorbed oat of the water, and the carbon of which is elaborated into carbo-hydrates. It has already been mentioned in a previous chapter (p. 103), that the living protoplasm, which is sensitive to light, endeavours to bring the chlorophyll corpuscles into favourable positions for receiving the direct powerful rays of light. The process of assimilation proceeds in such an energetic man- ner under the influence of sunlight that, in comparison to it, the respiration of oxygen and the exhalation of carbon dioxide, which are absolutely essential for the maintenance of the vital processes, are placed quite in the background, so much so, indeed, that in former times they were quite overlooked. But in plants which are placed in the dark, the expiration of oxygen and, to an equal degree, the absorption of carbon dioxide are immediately arrested, whilst respiration continues in precisely the same manner as when the plants were in the light. The gas now given off is seen to be carbon dioxide, the quantity of which, however, is much less than that of the oxygen in the preceding experiment. Claude Bernard (IV. la) has drawn attention to a very interest- ing difference existing between the respiration of oxygen and the assimilation of carbon dioxide in plants. He narcotised water- plants by means of chloroform or ether, and then found that they no longer gave off oxygen in direct sunlight. Thus the function of the chlorophyll, the capacity of forming starch by synthesis from carbon dioxide and' water, is absolutely suspended during narcosis, just as the irritability and power of motion are arrested in the protoplasm. This capacity returns when the plants are transferred into pure water. But it is still more remarkable that respiration, including the exhalation of carbon dioxide, is uninter- rupted during narcosis. This difference may be probably traced back to the fact thatrespiration, and the decomposition in connection with it, stand in a much closer relationship to the whole vital eco- nomy, and hence can only be quite extinguished with the life of the cell itself. But long before this occurs, the functions of the cell are paralysed during narcosis, and with them the chlorophyll function. 2. The Absorption and Excretion of Fluid Substances. Most of the substances concerned in metabolism are taken up by the organ- ism in a fluid condition. Unicellular and aquatic plants extract