202 THE CELL observers. The half-spindles, described by van Beneden and Boveri, consist of a portion of the protoplasmic radiation figure proceeding from the poles, namely, all those fibrils which are situated in the equator around the nuclear segments. The true spindle lies in the centre of these protoplasmic fibrils and nuclear segments. Hermann, to distinguish it from van Beneden's spindle, has given it the name of central spindle. The prefix " central," however, appears to me to be quite superfluous ; for one thing, it is better to decide to limit the name of spindle once for all to this portion of the nuclear figure, and to give, if necessary, some other name to the protoplasmic polar rays, which are connected with the nuclear segments, and which are described by van Beneden and Boveri as half-spindles; indeed, the name spindle is not suitable to them. Another moot point is the derivation of the spindle fibrils. Many investigators are inclined to trace them back to that protoplasm, which forced its way in between the nuclein threads when the nuclear membrane was dissolved (Strasburger VI. 72 ; Hermann VI. 29, etc.). I have already advocated, and am still inclined to hold the view, that, with the exception of the polar radiations, which belong to the protoplasmic body of the cell, the various structural portions of the nuclear figure are derived from the various substances in the resting nucleus. I consider that the substance of the spindle and of the connecting fibrils is derived from the linin framework. This view is supported also by Flem- ming, and to some extent by the micro-chemical investigations of Zacharias. However, the most important facts in its favour appear to me to be the following :— In many unicellular organisms the nuclei, during certain stages o£ division, remain separated from the protoplasm by a delicate membrane; this occurs in EugJypha (Schewiakoff VI. 65b), and in the nuclear divisions of Giliata and Actinosphceria (Rich. Hertwig, VI. 82, 83). Under these conditions there can be no doubt but that the spindle threads have sprung from the achromatin portion of the nucleus itself. Similar cases are occasionally met with in the animal kingdom as well. In some molluscs (Pterotrachea, Phyl- lirhoe), as Fol (VI. 19a) and I myself (VI. 30a) have observed, the polar spindle, as long as the nuclear membrane remains, is situated in the interior of the germinal vesicle (Fig. 97 A, B), which, in this case, is of small size. The assumption that, under these cir- cumstances, protoplasm has made its way into the nuclear space