148 THE CELT, hydrates, and convert these again into fats and albuminous sub-' stances, supply to the animal organism the ternary and quater- nary substances which are necessary for its nutriment, and which it is unable to elaborate, as the plants do, from such simple sub- stances. In this manner the vegetable and animal kingdoms con- stitute a life cycle, in which they assume opposite positions and complement each other. This antithesis may be formulated as follows :— In the green plant cell the organic substance is formed syn- thetically from carbon dioxide and water, whilst the vital force which is obtained from the sunlight becomes potential; on the other hand, the animal cell uses as nutriment the ternary and quaternary compounds formed in the vegetable kingdom, for the most part oxidising them. By this means it reconverts the potential energy stored up in the complex compounds into vital energy whilst performing work and evolving heat. The plant, whilst its chlorophyll is exercising its function, absorbs carbon di- oxide, and gives off oxygen ; the animal breathes in oxygen, and breathes out carbon dioxide. In the chemical processes of the plant reduction and synthesis predominate, whilst in those of the animal oxidation, combustion and analysis are most important. However, from this one example of antithesis occurring in the economy of nature between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, it must not be concluded that plant and animal cells are quite opposed in all their ordinary vital phenomena; for this is not true. Close investigation shows that there is universal unity in the fundamental processes of the whole organic world. The above-mentioned difference is only due to the fact that the plant cell has developed a special faculty which is lacking in animal cells, namely, the power of decomposing carbon dioxide by means of its chlorophyll. With the exception of this one function, exer- cised by chlorophyll, many of the metabolic processes which are essential for the maintenance of life are performed in the protoplasm in a perfectly similar manner in both plant and animal cells. In both the protoplasm must breathe, take up oxygen, evolve heat, and give up carbon dioxide if the vital processes are to be carried on. In both plants and animals the decomposition and reconstruction of protoplasm follow one another, and complicated processes of correlated chemical analysis and synthesis occur. This similarity can be more easily understood when it is re-