THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 93 or pressure. Similarly, as Sachs has pointed out, plant cells also are furnished with their specific energies. Tendrils and roots bend themselves in a manner peculiar to themselves, whether stimulated by light, gravitation, pressure, or electricity. The effect of a stimulus bears the specific stamp, so to speak, of the special structure of the stimulated substance, or, in other words, irritability is a fundamental property of living protoplasm, but it manifests itself in specific actions according to the specific structure of the protoplasm under the influence of the external world. The same idea is expressed by Claude Bernard (IV. la) in the following words : " La sensibilite, considered comme propriete du Systeme nervenx, n'a rien d'essentiel ou de specifiquement distinct; c'est l'irritabilite speciale au nerf, comme la propriete de contrac- tion est l'irritabilite speciale au muscle, comme la propriete de secretion est l'irritabilite speciale ä l'element glanduläre. Ainsi, ces proprietes sur lesquelles on fondait la distinction des plantes et animaux ne touchent pas ä leur vie meme, mais seulement aux mecanismes par lesquels cette vie s'exerce. Au fond tous ces me- canismes sont soumis ä une condition generale et commune l'irritabilite." In speaking generally of irritability, another peculiar pheno- menon deserves especial attention, namely the transmission or con- duction of stimuli. If a small portion of the surface of a protoplasmic body is stimulated, the effect produced is not limited to this point alone, but extends to far outlying ones. Hence the changes produced by the stimulus at the point of contact must be more or less quickly shared by the rest of the body. Stimuli as a rule, are more quickly transmitted in animal than in vegetable bodies ; in human nerves, for example, the rate is 34 metres per second ; it is always slower in plant protoplasm We imagine that the substance which is capable of receiving ümuh forms a system of exceedingly elastic particles in a oondfc neno0f thenS^ I—h a system it is sufficient for one of the particles to receive a slight shock, in order toset all the others n mot si each traD8mit, ite movement to J£» This theory explains-the phenomenon, that exceedingly great effect" i:^rle gramof p°wder' ^ ret^l7mao0fcher,PeCUliarity0f ***** is ^, capacity of -turning more or less completely to its original condition, after a