ew s THE CELL done to its vital functions, it soon develops upon its surface a n cellulose layer, which becomes stained red when congo-red if added to the water. As long as cells are young and growing vigorously, they contain a large quantity of protoplasm, whilst older cells, especially those m which formative activity has been arrested, only contain a small quantity of it. For instance, the protoplasmic layer, on the inner surface of the cellulose membrane of large and fully developed plant cells, may be so extremely thin that its presence, as a dis- tinct stratum, can only be demonstrated by means of plasmolysis. Similarly, only minute traces of protoplasm are present in the notochordal cells of animals, etc. The relations that the nucleus bears to the remaining com- ponent parts of the cell are at present attracting great attention. It has already been shown (p. 214) that very remarkable meta- bolic interactions take place between the nucleus and the proto- plasm during the processes of division. But it is evident, that the nucleus plays an important physiological part at other times, as well, in the life of the cell; all the formative and nutritive processes seem to be dependent upon it, and to bear a close re- lationship to it. The true nature of this relationship, however, cannot at present be more exactly defined, as may be deduced from the observations of Haberlandt and Korschelt, which will be described later, as well as from the experiments of Gruber, Nuss- baum, Balbiani, Klebs and Hofer. I. Observations on the position of the nucleus, as an indication of its participation in formative and nutritive processes. According to the extensive and important observa- tions of Haberlandt (VIII. 4) the nucleus of young and developing plant-cells is " situated in that portion of the cell where growth is most active, or lasts longest. This is true both for the growth of the cell as a whole and for the increase in volume and superficial area of the cell-membrane in especial. If the cell is growing in more than one place, the nucleus takes up a central position, so that it is about equidistant from the regions of most active growth (Fig. 161, II). Occasionally the nuclei are connected with the places of most active growth by means of protoplasmic strands, which are as short as possible. The nucleus only rarely retains its original position in fully developed cells. As a rule it has left the place which it occupied in the growing cell, and generally has