306 THE CELL see that the male and female sexual cells may be derived from the same sexual apparatus, i.e. from one blossom, or they may spring from different blossoms of the same shoot, or, finally, from different shoots; in this way, three different degrees of relationship are obtained. In hermaphrodite animals they may belong to the same individuals, or to different individuals of the same species. The degree of relationship is still more distant when the sex- ual products are derived from two different individuals of the same species. In such cases also, many degrees of relationship are possible, according to whether the producing individuals are descendants of common parents, or are more distantly related. Finally, we may have the union of sexual products derived from parents which differ so much in their organisation, that they have been classified as varieties of a species, or as belonging to different species, or even to different genera. The innumerable possibilities, which the above-mentioned series affords, are generally treated under three heads: (1) self- fertilisation and in-breeding, (2) normal fertilisation, and (3) hybridisation. There are, however, great differences of opinion concerning the classification of individual cases under one or other of the three heads. Further, there is no rule by means of which we can estimate the various degrees of relationship of the sexual cells, and which is equally applicable to all members of the organic kingdom. A review of the facts connected with the subject teaches us, that when the relationship of the reproductive cells—I use the expression, relationship, in its widest sense—is either too near or too distant, sexual affinity is either lessened or entirely done away with ; therefore we may state, as a general rule, that a moderate degree of relationship, which is more or less distant according to the species, is the one most likely to render fertili- sation possible. Further, we may also notice here, that sexual affinity is affected by the environment. We will first discuss the ques- tion of self-fertilisation, then that of hybridisation, and finally we will investigate the influence exerted by the environment upon these two. a. Self-fertilisation. Self-fertilisation occurs under the most various conditions. In many cases there is no sexual affinity between cells needing fertilisation, which are nearly re- lated to one another, being derived more or less directly from