THE CELIj 102 amongst themselves, keeping more or less close to the edge of the drop, according to the condition of the preparation. Continu- ally, individual spores are seen to suddenly forsake the side, either positive or negative, at which they were stationed, and to hurry through the drop to the opposite one. Such an exchange is continually taking place between the two sides. Indeed, it frequently occurs that certain individuals, which have just left one side and arrived at the other, hasten back to the one from which they originally came. Others become arrested in the middle of their course, and then return to their starting-point, in order eventually to oscillate backwards and forwards for a considerable time like a pendulum." The following experiment, described by Strasburger, shows how sensitively and quickly the zoospores reaet to light:—" If a piece of paper is placed between the microscope and the source of light, just as the zoospores are on their way from one edge of the drop to the other, they immediately turn to one side, many rotating in a circle; this, however, only lasts for a moment, after which they continue to move in the same direction as before (interruption movements)." Strasburger (IV. 37) has named those zoospores which hasten towards the source of light light-seeking (photophylic), and those which travel from it light-avoiding {photo- phobic). . , . . , As has been already remarked, the way in which the spores collect at one or other side of the drop, thus indicating their special kind of phototonus, depends upon extend circumstances such as the intensity of the light, the temperature, the aeration of t he water, and their condition of development. It is possible to entice spores, which under intense illumination have collected on the negative side, to come over to the other side. The intensity of the light must be gradually diminished in pro- portion to their phototonusby introducing one, two, three or more screens of ground glass between the preparation and the source ; 1 Iht The same result may be more easily obtained by moving the microscope slowly away from the window, and thus rendering ^"^^nvironment often has a considerable Juence /pon the degree of sensitiveness to bv many zoospores. When the temperature is raised they become so to speak, attuned to a greater degree of sens.tiveness ; whiM at he sam time, their movements are rendered more active : the