/ THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 95 The protoplasm of organisms which live' in hot springs is able to sustain much higher temperatures. Cohn found specimens of Leptothrix and Oscillaria in the Karlsbad springs at 53° C, whilst Ehrenberg observed Algse in the warm springs of Ischia. But even in these cases we have not arrived at the extreme limit of heat which can be sustained for a time by living substance. For endogenous spores of Bacilli, which are furnished with unusually resistent envelopes, remain capable of germination after they have been heated for a short time in a liquid at a temperature of 100°. Many even can endure 105-130° (de Bary IV. 5h, p. 4). It is only after a substance has been exposed to the action of dry heat of 140° for a period of three hours that we can assume with certainty that all life has been completely destroyed in it. It is even more difficult to determine the lower limit at which " death from cold " occurs. As a rule, temperatures below 0° are less injurious to protoplasm than high ones. It is true that if the eggs of Echinodermata, which are about to divide, are placed in a freezing mixture at a temperature of from 2° to 3° C, the pro- cess of division is temporarily arrested (IV. 12) ; but division recommences and proceeds in a normal fashion when the eggs are slowly warmed, even if they have been kept in the freezing mix- ture for a quarter of an hour. Indeed, the greater number of the eggs are found to be uninjured even if they have been kept at this temperature for two hours. Plant-cells may be frozen until ice crystals develop in the sap, and yet, after they have been (ivl:) theJ eXbibit streamhl§' movements of protoplasm Sudden exposure to temperatures below zero produces striking changes of form in the protoplasm of plants; however, it reverts to its normal condition on being thawed. When Kühne (IV 15) ex ammed in water cells of Tradescantia, which had been kept for a little more than five minutes in a freezing mixture at 14° C he found in the place of the ordinary protoplasmic net, a large number of isolated round drops and globules. These, after a few seconds began to show active movements, and in a few minutes commenced to join themselves one to another, and thus to gradually become reconstructed mto a network, in which active streaming movements soon commenced to take place. - Kühne describes in the following words another experiment :- If a preparatxon of Tradescantia cells is kept for at least one houi ln a space which is maintained by means of ice at a tempera-