TUR CELL 22 His opinion is based upon his experiments on living objects, which he treated with various reagents. In his opinion there is a frame- work of plasma corresponding to the lamellae of oil, which, in the artificial emulsion, separate the droplets of fluid from one another. Similarly here also granules (microsomes) are collected together at the points of intersection. Further the protoplasmic body is fre- quently differentiated externally to form an alveolar layer. The appearance, described by other observers as a thread or net-like structure with spaces which communicate and contain fluid, B端tschli considers to be due to the presence of a froth or honey- comb structure, in which the cavities are closed in on all sides; he himself, however, remarks that, in consequence of the minuteness of the structures in question, it is impossible to decide finally, simply by the appearance under the microscope, whether a net-like or honeycomb structure really exists (II. 7b, p. 140), since " in either case the appearance under the microscope is the same." Now it seems hardly justifiable, that this similarity to an artificially prepared froth, although it has caused B端tschli finally to make up his mind, should be allowed to settle the question. Two objections to this theory of B端tschli's must be mentioned. The first is that it does not apply to nuclear substance, which without doubt is similar in its organisation to protoplasm. For during the process of nuclear division threadlike arrangements in the form of spindle-threads and nuclein-threads are so distinctly to I be seen, that their existence certainly cannot be questioned by ' any one. The second objection is more theoretical in nature. The oil lamella are composed of a fluid which does not mix with water. Now if the comparison between the structure of this emulsion and that of protoplasm is to depend upon something more than a mere superficial similarity, the plasma lamella, corresponding to the oil lamella, must be composed of a solution of albumen or of liquid albumen. Now this cannot be the case, for a solution of albumen is capable of mixing with water, and hence would of necessity mix with the contents of the spaces ; hence the albuminous froth would have to be prepared with air. In order to get over this difficulty, B端tschli assumes that the chemical basis of the framework sub- stance is a fluid, composed of molecules of albumen combined with those of a fatty acid (II. 7b, p. 199); this supposition, and especially the theory that the framework substance is a fluid, is