71 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL jeot, but which may sometimes be demonstrated by means of reagents. Hence, since this layer moves in a certain direction over the siliceous shell, or cellulose membrane, the small organisms can " move in a gliding or creeping fashion over a solid surface " (Engelmann). b. The movements of Protoplasm inside the Cell Mem- brane. This kind of movemeut is chiefly seen in the vegetable kingdom, and as a rule is best observed in the cells of herbaceous plants rather than in those of shrubs and trees. According to de Vries (III. 25), these movements are never totally absent in any plant-cell, but frequently they are so slow as to escape direct observation. They are best seen in vascular tissues, and in those where materials have been stored up, and further at such times when considerable quantities of plastic snbstances are being transported in order to supply the material necessary for the continuation of growth, for local accumulations, and for special needs (de Vries). Hence this movement of the protoplasm ap- pears to be directly of importance during the conveyance of materials from one part of the plant to another. More rarely it may be seen in the lower organisms, and in the animal king- dom, as in Noctiluca in the vesicular cells in the centre of the tentacles of Coelenterata, etc. Two kinds of movements may be distinguished in plants, notation and Circulation. These movements of rotation were first observed in 1774 by Bonaventura Corti (I. 8); after that they were lost sight of for a time but were re-discovered by Treviranus. The most suitable objects for studying them are afforded us by the Charace»; root- hairs of the Hydrocharis morsus rancv, and of Trianea bogotensis, leaves of Valhsneria spiralis, etc., are also very convenient for observations. In the large cells of the Charace^the protop asm as has already been described on p. 33, is Spread oi/a 7 hTk cohesive layer Upon the inner surface of the cellulose membrane ~ding the large quantity of cell-sap like a closed sac In thus lining two distinct layers of protoplasm can always be dis «ed: an outer one, touching the cellulose membrane and an inner one, m contact with the cell-sap. The former iTS motionless; in Hydrocharis it is very thin in I ZT somewhat thicker and it *l«n T- Uiarace» it is „Li u u . ' ancl lt also contains a greater number of chlorophyll grams, which remain motionless. This hnmntil layer gradually passes over into the inner motile one, wtfj