178 THE CELL Schwann (I. 31), whilst adopting Schleidens theory, fell into a second, and still greater error. He considered that the young cells developed, not only within the mother-cell (as propounded by Schleiden), but also outside of it, in an organic substance, which is frequently present in animal tissues as intercellular substance, and which he called also Cytoblastem. Thus Schwann taught that cells were formed spontaneously both inside and outside of the mother-cell, which would be a genuine case of spontaneous generation from formless germ substance. These were indeed grave fundamental errors, from which, how- ever, the botanists were the first to extricate themselves. In the year 1846 a general law was formulated in consequence of the observations of Mohl (VI. 47), Unger, and above all, Nägeli (VI. 48). This law states, that new plant cells only spring from those already present, and further that this occurs in such a manner, that the motbex'-cell becomes broken up by dividing into two or more daughter-cells. This was first observed by Mohl. It was much more difficult to disprove the theory, that the cells of animal tissues arise from cytoblasts, and this was especially the case in the domain of pathological anatomy, for it was thought that the formation of tumours and pus could be traced back to cytoblasts. At last, after many mistakes, and thanks to the labours of many investigators, amongst whom Kölliker (VI. 45, 46), Reichert (VI. 58, 59), and Remak (VI. 60, 61) must be mentioned, more light was thrown upon the subject of the genesis of cells in the animal kingdom also, until finally the cytoblastic theoiy was absolutely disproved by Virchow, who originated the formula, " Omnis cellula e cellula." No spontaneous generation of cells occurs either in plants or animals. The many millions of cells of which, for instance, the body of a vertebrate animal is composed, have been produced by the repeated division of one cell, the ovum, in which the life of every animal commences. The older histologists were unable to discover what part the nucleus played in cell-division. For many decades two opposing theories were held, of which now one and now the other obtained temporarily the greater number of suppox*ters. According to the one theory, which was held by most botanists (Reichert VI. 58; Auerbach VI. 2a, etc.), the nucleus at each division was sup- posed to break up and become diffused throughout the protoplasm, in order to be formed anew in each daughter-cell. According to the other (C. E. v. Baer; Joh. Müller; Remak VI. 60; Leydig;