163 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL Fig. 69. — Starch grains from a Potato tuber (after Strasburger, Pract. Bot., Fig. 3): A simple grain; B semi-compound grain ; C and D com- pound grains; c the hilum. (x540.) points, whilst at others they may be as large as 2 mm. in circum- ference. Their reaction towards iodine solution is characteristic ; they become either dark or light blue according to the strength of the solution. In warm water they swell up considerably, and if fur- ther heated turn into a paste. Their shape also varies, being sometimes oval, some- times round, and sometimes irregular. When strongly magnified they are seen to be distinctly stratified, and in an optical section bright broad bands are seen to alternate with more narrow dark ones. Nageli explains this appearance by the sup- position that the starch grain is composed of lamellae of starch substance, which are alter- nately rich and poor in water. Strasburger (V. 31), on the other hand, is of opinion, that " the darker lines represent the specially marked adhesion surfaces of consecutive lamellae, which," he con- siders, "are more or less identical with each other in composition." The lamellae (Fig. 69) are arranged round a hilum, which is either situated in the centre of the whole grain (B, G) or, as is more frequently the case, is eccentric in position (A). Further it is not rare to find starch grains, which consist of two (B, G) or three (D) systems of lamellae, united together; these are termed compound grains, in contradistinction to others which contain one single hilum. When the hilum is in the centre, the strata of starch surrounding it are fairly uniform in thickness. On the other hand when its position is eccentric, only the inner layers surround it completely, whilst the peripheral layers are of greatest thick- ness on that side which is turned away from the hilum, and grow thinner and thinner as they approach it, becoming finally so narrow, that they either fuse with neighbouring lamellae, or end freely. In each starch grain the amount of water contained is greatest