THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 157 contractile vacuoles or reservoirs (p. 85). This occurs with especial frequency in Ciliata. Finally, ib occasionally, although rarely, happens that the sap collects into special vacuoles; this may occur in various kinds of animal cells, and especially in structures which have a supporting function in the body. In the tentacles of many Ccelenterates, in certain appendages of Annelids, and also in the chorda dorsalis^ of Vertebrates, there are comparatively large vesicular cells, which are separated from the exterior by a thick membrane, and which contain hardly anything but cell sap, only a very minute quantity of protoplasm being present. This is spread out in a very thin layer over the membrane, extending threads here and there across the sap space ; the nucleus is generally embedded in a somewhat denser collection of protoplasm, either in the peripheral layer, or in the network. Here also, as in plants, the firm cell-wall is tensely distended in consequence of the osmotic action of the substances in the sap. Although no experimental investigations have yet been made concerning the turgescence of the organs in question, yet it can only be explained in this manner: that the notochord functions in the body of a Vertebrate as a supporting organ. The very numerous small turgescent notochord cells being built up into one organ, and also shut off from the exterior by means of a firm elastic sheath, their individual tensions are summed up, and through the internal pressure of the sheath the structure is kept rigid. The absorption and secretion of sap occur in nuclear substance, just as in protoplasm. The sap serves the same purpose in-both cases, namely to offer a large surface to the active substances, and to put them into direct communication with the nutrient fluid. Although the formation of sap vacuoles occurs but rarely in animal cells, various substances, such as fat, glycogen, mucin, albuminates, etc., frequently separate out from the protoplasm. The fat is seen to occur at first as small drops in the proto- plasmic body, resembling the drops of cell sap in young plant cells. Just like such vacuoles, the droplets increase in size, and run together, producing, finally, one single large drop, which fills the whole internal space of the cell, and which is surrounded by a delicate cell-membrane, and by a thin layer of protoplasm, which contains the nucleus. Glycogen collects in separate particles in, the liver cells; these