THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL tion substances. All other substances (protoplasm, yolk, nuclear sap, etc.) are not concerned in fertilisation as such. This proposition is supported by two important facts :— Firstly, the complicated processes of preparation and matura- tion which the sexual cells must undergo. As follows from the statements given on pp. 285-239, tbe chief result of these processes is not that the nuclear substances are increased through fertilisa- tion, but that they remain constant in amount for the species of plant or animal in question. Secondly, the phenomena of fertilisation seen in Infusoria. Here, as Maupas and Richard Hertwig both assert, similar individuals remain in contact for a sufficient period in order to exchange halves of equal nuclei. When this exchange of migratory nuclei has been effected, the process of fertilisation is completed, and the two animals separate. Hence it is evident, that the ultimate result of the complicated processes consists in this, that after the fusion of the migratory and stationary nuclei the nucleus in each fertilised individual is composed of nuclear substance derived from two different sources. If the important substance of fertilisation is contained in the nucleus, the question arises whether the nuclear substance of the spermatozoon differs from that of the egg-cell. This question has been answered in very different ways. Formerly it was generally considered, as Sachs expressed it, that the male element intro- duced into the ovum a substance which it did not contain before. One view especially has obtained many adherents; it may be de- scribed as the doctrine of the hermaphroditism of nuclei and the theory of restitution. Many investigators consider that the cells possess hermaphro- dite nuclei, that is to say, nuclei with both male and female properties. For instance, according to van Beneden's hypothesis, which has been the most clearly worked out, immature egg and sperm-cells are hermaphrodite; they only gain their sexual character after the egg-cell has lost its male, and the sperm-cell its female constituents of their normal hermaphrodite nuclear apparatus. The male nuclear constituents are expelled from the egg in the nuclear segments of the polar cells. The reverse pro- cess occurs in a similar manner with sperm-cells. Thus the egg and sperm-nuclei, being halved, become pronuclei, and possess opposite sexual characteristics. Regarded from this point of view, fertilisation consists essentia