ITS CHEM1C0-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGtCAL PROPERTIES 31 Fig. 11.—Living cartilage cell of a Salamander larva, much magnified, with distinctly marked threads. (After Flemming: from Hatschek, Fig. 2.) cellulose walls. The small cell spaces are completely filled up with the cell-substance, which, with the exception of the nucleus and chlorophyll, consists solely of finely granular protoplasm. . Flemming recommends cartilage cells from young Salamander larva as affording the best and most reliable material for the study of the structure of living proto- plasm (Fig. 11). The cell-substance, which during life, as in the young plant-cells, completely fills the spaces in the cartilaginous ground-substance, is traversed by svavy threads of fairly high refractive power; these are less than 1 fx in diameter, and are generally most numerous, and at the same time most wavy, in the neighbourhood of the nucleus; sometimes the periphery of the cell is nearly, if not entirely, free from threads, but sometimes they are present in great num- bers here also. 2. Cells which contain several different substances in their protoplasm. In plants, and in unicellular organisms, the pro- toplasm frequently contains drops of fluid, in which salt, sugar and albuminates are dissolved (circulating substances) The further we go (Fig. 12 A) from the growing-point of a plant, where the minute elementary particles of pure protoplasm as described above are grouped, the larger do the individual cells (c) appear, until they are frequently seen to be more than a hundred times as We as they were originally, whilst, in addition, their cellulose wall bas become considerably thicker. However, this growth depends only to a very small extent upon any marked increase of the proto plasmic substance. The cavity of such a large plant cell is Zlirn tk bG C°mpletelj fill6d WitH granular P-toplasmic IreTinCreaSe..in °f the Cel1 is duemuch substanCP IT " SmaU am°Unt °f P-toplasmic substance, which was originally present at the growing point takes up fluid which in the form of cell-sap separates &out into mall spaces m the interior, called vacuoles. By this means a frothy appearance is produced (Fig. 12 B s) More or less thick protoplasmic strands stretch out from the mass of protoplasm in which the nucleus is embedded The strands serve to separate the individual sap vacuoles fro I one