THK CELL irritability, reacting to mechanical, galvanic, and chemical stimuli by contracting their bodies. According to Verworn, Ciliafa, too, which have developed special locomotive organs, such as cilia, flagella, cirrhi, etc., assume, when cut up, a complete autonomy and independence of the nucleus. In Lacrymaria, each part, when deprived of its nucleus, ex- hibits, after its separation from the body, the same movements as it was performing before. Small portions of Stylonichia, which are furnished with a number of ventral cilia, continue to make with them the movements peculiar to their species. Even the minutest portion of protoplasm, which is furnished with only one bristle-like cilium, continues to make with it characteristic movements. If it was directed backwards, it is suddenly from time to time jerked forwards, by which movement the portion receives a short jerk backwards ; thereupon the cilium returns again to a state of rest, and so on. The contractile vacuoles of the Protista are, like cilia and cirrhi, remarkable for complete autonomy. Even in non-nucleated portions they can be observed to contract rhythmically for davs together (Verworn). Finally, an important difference is noticeable between non- nucleated and nucleated portions, as regards digestion. Whilst small Infusoria, Botifera, etc., are normally digested by nucleated portions, in non-nucleated parts digestion is considerably dimin- ished, both as regards time and intensity. It may, therefore, be concluded that protoplasm can only produce digestive secre- tions with the assistance of the nucleus (Hofer, Verworn). It is not surprising that diversities of opinion, as mentioned in Chapter VII., should exist upon this subject, when the difficulty of the problems to be solved be taken into account. Literature VIII. 1. Balbiani. Recherche* expcrimentales sur la merotomie des Infusoires cilies. Prem. part. Recueil. Zool. Suisse. 1889. 2. Bovkki. Ein geschlechtlich erzeugter Organismus ohne mütterliche Eigen- schaften. Gesellsch. f. Murphol. u. Pysiol. zu München. 1889. 3. Gru ber. Ueber die EinßusslosigUeit des Kerns auf die Bewegung, die Ernährung u. das Wuclislhum einzelliger Thierc. Biolog. Centraiblatt. Bd. III. Gruber. Ueber künstliche Theilung bei Infusorien. Biolog. Centralbl. Bd. IV. u. V.