THE HISTORY OF THE CELL-THEORY 0 anatomy of animals was, in spite of the greater difficulty of observation, immediately placed upon the same plane as that of plants. Two circumstances contributed to the rapid and brilliant result of Schwann's observations. In the first place Schwann made the greatest use of the presence of the nucleus in demonstrating the animal cell, whilst emphasizing the statement that it is the most characteristic and least variable of its constituents. As before mentioned, this idea was suggested to him by Schleiden. The second, no less important circumstance, is the accurate method which Schwann employed in carrying out and recording his obser- vations. As the botanists by studying undeveloped parts of plants traced the development of the vessels, for instance, from primitive cells, so he, by devoting especial attention to the history of the development of the tissues, discovered that the embryo, at its earliest stage, consists of a number of quite similar cells; he then traced the metamorphoses or transformations, which the cells undergo, until they develop into the fully-formed tissues of the adult animal. He showed that whilst a portion of the cells retain their original spherical shape, others become cylindrical in form, whilst yet others develop into long threads or star-shaped bodies, which send out numerous radiating processes from various parts of their surface. He showed how in bones, cartilage, teeth, and other tissues, cells become surrounded by firm walls of varying thickness; and, finally, he explained the appearance of a number of the most atypical tissues by the consideration that groups of cells become, so to speak, fused together; this again is analogous to the development of the vessels in plants. Thus Schwann originated a theory which, although imperfect in many respects, yet is applicable both to plants and animals, and which, further, is easily understood, and in the main correct. According to this theory, every part of the animal body is either built up of elements, corresponding to the plant cells, massed together, or is derived from such elements which have undergone certain metamorphoses. This theory has formed a satisfactory foundation upon which many further investigations have been based. However, as has been already mentioned, the conception which Schleiden and Schwann formed of the plant and animal element was incorrect in many respects. They both deßned the cell as a small vesicle, with a firm membrane enclosing fluid contents, that is to say,