AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORCxANISM 337 formation, namely, "that what cannot be perceived by the senses, is not present in a preformed state in the germ; that the germ at the outset is nothing but unorganised matter, excreted from tbe sexnal organs of the parents, which in consequence of fertilisation, gradually becomes organised during the process of development." He states farther that the organs differentiate themselves one after another out of this unorganised germinal substance, and he tried to actually demonstrate this process in individual cases. Thus he showed how various plant organs gradually differentiate them- selves out of the germinal substance, and in so doing undergo alterations in their shape, and he pointed out that the intes- tinal canal of a chick develops out of a leaf-shaped embryonic structure. By thus basing his arguments upon accurate observation, in- stead of upon preconceived notions, Wolff laid the foundation- stone of the important hypothesis, which, based upon the theory of development, has been gradually built up during the course of this century. If we carefully compare these two theories, we see that neither can be accepted in its entirety. Both have their weak points. The theory of Preformation is open to attack from the stand- point of the evolutionists, since, in the higher organisms, each individual is produced by the co-operation of two members of separated sexes. When, later on, Leeuwenhoek discovered the existence of spermatozoa as well as ova, an animated discussion arose as to whether the egg or the spermatozoon constituted the preformed germ. The hostile schools of the Ovists and Animalculists existed for a century. The Ovists, such as, for instance, Spallanzani, stated that the unfertilised ovum of a Frog was a diminutive Frog, being of opinion that the spermatozoon only acted as a stimulating agent, exciting vital activity and growth. The Animalculists, on the other hand, by means of the magnifying glasses at their dis- posal, discovered the presence of heads, arms, and legs in the spermatozoon. They therefore considered that the egg was only a suitable nutrient medium, which was necessary for the develop- ment of the spermatozoon. Further, the theory of Preformation, more logically worked out, leads to very serious difficulties. One such obstacle, which even Haller and Spallanzani did not think could be overcome, was the consideration that the germs of all the subsequent animals would z