THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 87 selves in turn, with the result that the water is discharged as regularly as possible. The frequency with which these evacuations take place varies considerably in different species. According to the observation of Schwalbe (III. 21) the following law may be stated : that the smaller the vacuoles are, the more frequently are they emptied. For instance, in Ghilodon cucullulus they contract about 13 to 14 times in two minutes, in Paramecium aurelia, only 10 or 11 times in the same period, whilst in Vorticella microstoma, only once or twice. In Stentor and Hpirostomüm the contractions occur less frequently still. Of all the above-mentioned animals, the two last have the largest contractile vacuoles, next comes Vorticella, then Paramecium aurelia, and lastly Ghilodon cucullulus, whose vacuoles are only half as large in diameter as those of Paramsec- ium, where the diameter is about '0127 mm.; in Vorticella it is •0236 mm (Schwalbe). The interval which elapses between the two evacuations is very regular at the same temperature; it is, however, considerably affected if the temperature is raised or lowered (Rossbach III. 19, Maupas). For instance, with Euplotes charon, the interval between the contractions is 61 seconds; at 30° Celsius, it has diminished to 23 seconds (Rossbach); that is tosay, the frequency has become nearly trebled. The amount of water which in this manner passes through the animal is extremely great. According to the computations of Maupas, Paramecium aurelia, for example, evacuates, in 46 minutes at 27° Celsius, a volume of water equal to its own volume. From the above-mentioned observations, it may be concluded that contractile vacuoles are not merely simple variable drops of water in the plasma, but that they are permanent morphological differentia- tions in the body of the Protozoon; that is to say, true cell organs, which appear to perform an important function in the carrying on of breathing and excretion. The energy with which the vacuole dis- charges its contents, so that it completely disappears, indicates that its walls, which consist of hyaline substance resembling the flagel- lum substance, must be contractile to an exceptional degree, and by means of,this property are to be distinguished from the endo- plasm of the infusorian body. It must, however, be admitted that no special membrane, clearly defined from the remainder of the body mass, can be seen microscopically, just as with smooth muscle fibres the contractile substance and the protoplasm are not sharply