60 THE CELL, rate than that of the micella for each other, and hence when the envelopes have reached a certain size a condition of equilibrium, the limit of the power of the body to swell up, is reached." When, however, by means of special methods of treatment, the attraction of the micellce for each other is quite overcome, a micellar solution is obtained. This solution is cloudy and opal- escent, which is an indication that the light is unevenly refracted. Nägeli compares this with the slimy opalescent masses produc<d when Schizomycetes are crowded together in large numbers. Nägeli explains the differences, which Graham has described as existing between crystalloids and colloids, by the statement that in the former isolated molecules are distributed amongst the particles of water, whilst in the latter crystalline groups of mole- cules or isolated micellae are so distributed. Hence numbers of the one group form molecular solutions, and those of the other micellar solutions (such as egg-albumen, glue, gum, etc ). The micellae themselves have considerable power of preventing the substance from breaking down into molecules. Such a breaking down is generally accompanied by chemical transformation. Thus starch, after it has been converted into sugar, is capable of forming a molecular solution, as is also the case with proteids and gelatine-yielding substances after they have been converted into peptones. In organised bodies the micella unite together to form regu- larly arranged colonies, in which the individual micellae may consist of similar or different chemical substances, and may vary as to size and form ; further, they may unite in smaller or larger groups of micella? within the colony itself. The micdlse within these micellar colonies appear as a rule to hang together in chains, which further unite together to form a frame or nekoork struchire with more or less wide meshes. In the gaps or micellar interstices the xcater is enclosed. " Only in this manner is it possible to have a firm structure, composed of a large quantity of water and a small quantity of solid matter, such as is seen in a jelly." The water, which is contained in organised bodies, may be found in three conditions, distinguished by Nägeli under the names water of constitution or of crystallisation, water of adhesion, and capillary water. By the first are understood the molecules of water, which, as in a crystal, are united firmly to the molecules of the substance in a fixed proportion, thus entering into the structure of the micella.