192 THE CELL During the fourth stage the cell-body divides, and the daughter- nucleus becomes built up again. This, according to van Bened.-n takes place in the following manner (Fig. 87) : the four chromat in' C B ffl® Fig. 87.-A A group of four daughter-segments seen from the pole, the swelliu-s at the ends, forming the loops, are especially well marked (after van Benedenand Neyt, PI. VI., Pig. 19). B Reconstruction of the nucleus from the four daughter-segments, diagrammatic (from van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI, Pig. 20). C Resting condition of the nucleus, seen from the pole (from van Beneden and Neyt, PI. VI., Pig. 21). loops (A) absorb fluid, which becomes nuclear sap, out of the protoplasm; they become saturated with it, as a sponge with water, and thus swell up into thick vesicular bodies (B). The nuclein divides up into granules, which are connected together by delicate threads, which are situated chiefly upon the surfaces of these vesicles. The inner surfaces of these latter come close together and fuse. Thus a vesicular nucleus, irregular in shape, and sat m ated with nuclear sap, is formed; it is separated from the protoplasm by a membrane, and contains a delicate framework, upon which the chromatin substance is distributed. The eggs of Ascaris afford us special advantages for the study of centrosomes and nuclear segments, but the small eggs of Echinoderms (Hertwig VI. 30a; Fol VI. 19a) are also of great use, particularly for observing radia- tion phenomena in the protoplasm of the living cell. More will be said about this later on. In the egg-cell of a living Echinoderm, a few minutes after fertilisation (Fig. 88), the small globular cleavage-nucleus is seen to be situated in the centre of the Fig. 88.—Egg of a Sea-urchin just yolk; it looks like a clear vesicle, after fertilisation has been completed t • -i -i i * (from o. Hertwig, Embryology, Fig. 20). and 1S surrounded by rays of proto- Egg nucleus and sperm nucleus are plasm, like a SUn with rajs of fused to form the cleavage nucleus (/A-) jj ht> Thig radiati(m g0 dis. which occupies the centre of a proto- .... piasmicradiation. tinct in this object during life,