127 THE VITAL PROPERTIES Of THE CELL the amount of certain poisons which suffices to kill a large living animal." In the reconstruction of living substance, or in progressive metabolism, new material is taken up from outside, to replace that which has been used up ; these substances become incorporated and transformed into new chemical combinations. During the execution of this work, more or less heat is rendered latent, and is converted into potential energy ; this latent heat is derived partly from the intramolecular heat, which is released by the process of decomposition, partly, and in the case of plants chiefly, from the vivifying heat of the sun's rays, by means of which a large amount of kinetic energy is conveyed to the organic world, and is converted in the protoplasmic body into potential energy. The substances taken up from outside, and the heat rays from the sun, supply in the last instance the material and energy required for the carrying on of the vital processes of alternate decomposition and reconstruction. According to Pfliiger's definition,—" The vital force is the intramolecular heat. The highly unstable molecules of albumen, which are built up in the cell substance, and which become decomposed through a splitting up of the molecules—carbon dioxide, water, and nitrogenous bodies being chiefly formed —becoming continually regenerated and rearranged." In spite of the great variety of metabolic processes which occur in a single individual, there is a series of fundamental processes, which are common to all organic bodies, and which take place in the lowest unicellular organisms, as well as in the bodies of plants and animals. Thus the unity of the entire organic kingdom is exhibited in these fundamental processes of metabolism,° just as in the phenomena of movement and of reaction to stimuli. Up to this point they may be included in the general anatomy and physiology of the cell. This uniformity is especially note- worthy in the following three points : 1. Each cell, whether plant or animal, respires, that is to say, it is essential to it, to take up oxygen from its environment, by means of which it oxidises the carbo-hydrates and albuminous substances of its own body, and produces as end products carbon dioxide and water. 2. In both organic kingdoms to a large extent, corresponding substances make their appearance during metabolism, such as jppsin, diastase, myosin, xanthin, sarcin, sugar, inosit, dextrin, glycogen, lactic acid, formic acid, acetic acid, and butyric acid.