68 THE CELL themselves out over the object upon which they rest, in large masses about the size of a fist. In order to make a suitable .pre- paration for observation of such a plasmodium, it is best to hold a moistened slide near to its edge in an oblique position, and to cause a stream of water by means of a special contrivance to flow slowly down the slide. The plasmodia of the JEthalium possess the property of moving in a direction opposite to that of the stream of water (rheotropism) ; hence they protrude innumerable pseudopodia, and by this means crawl up on to the moistened slide, where they spread themselves out, and, by uniting neigh- bouring pseudopodia together by means of transverse branches, they form a delicate transparent net- work (Fig. 39). When this network is examined with a high power, it can be seen to exhibit two kinds of move- ments. At first the granular protoplasm which is present in the threads and strands, where it is surrounded hy a thin peripheral layer of hyaline proto- plasm, is seen to have a quick, flowing movement, which is chiefly observable because of the movement of the small granules, and which resembles the cir- culation of the blood in the vessels of a living animal. There is no distinct boundary line between the motile endo- plasm and the non-motile ectoplasm, for the granules at the edge of the stream move much more slowly than those in the centre; indeed, sometimes they may keep quite still for a time, to be later on again caught up by the stream and carried along with it. In the thinner threads there is always only one stream flowing longi- tudinally, but in the thicker branches there are often two flowing Ing side by side in opposite directions. « In the flat menjbrane- Uke extensions" which are developed here and there in^. net work, "there are generally a large number of flowing either in the same or in ^^.^^'^^ quently we find streams flowing along side by side in opposite Fig. 30. — Choiulrioderma dif- forme (after Strasburger). Part of a fairly old Plasmodium, a Dry spore ; b the same, swollen up in water; c spore, the contents of which are exuding; d zoospore j e amoeboid forms produced by the transformation of zoospores, which are commencing to unite together to form a Plasmodium. (In d and « the nuclei and con- tractile vacuoles may be distin- guished.)