THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 299 After the separation of the first polar cell, that half of the spindle, which was left behind in the ovum, develops into a com- plete spindle again, just as if the second polar cell were going to be divided off. However, this does not occur; for the second spindle only divides into two nuclei, which remain in the ovum itself. After some time they fuse together in this place, and drifting towards the middle of the yolk, again produce a single nucleus as it were by self-fertilisation; by means of this nucleus the parthenogenetic processes, which quickly follow, are introduced. Thus, in this case, the second division, the purpose of whicb is to reduce the nuclear mass and to prepare for subsequent fertilisation, is abortive. That by this means no sufficient compensation is made for the absence of fertilisation is evident from the subsequent course of the parthenogenetic process of fertilisation, i.e. from the more or less premature death of the ovum. From the circumstance, that in parthenogenetic development the formation of the second polar cell does not occur or is abortive, we might conclude, that development invariably becomes im- possible after the nuclear mass has been reduced to one half of its normal amount, unless a fresh stimulus is given to the organism by means of fertilisation. However, at present, this conclusion, which perhaps contains some truth, cannot be said to be generally applicable. For Platner (VII. 47), Blochmann (VII. 46), and Henking (VII. 17) have observed, that the ova of certain Arthropods (Liparis clispar, Bees) develop in a parthenogenetic manner into normal animals, although, like ova which require fer- tilisation, they have produced two polar cells. In these cases a more careful investigation of the circumstances with reference to the number of the nuclear segments is certainly desirable. Hence, at any rate, it must be admitted, that it is possible for ova, which contain reduced nuclei as a result of the formation of the two polar cells, to develop further in a parthenogenetic manner; for nuclei, which contain a reduced amount of nuclein, have in no way lost their capacity for division, as may be easily supposed. An experiment, conducted by Richard Hertwig and myself (VI. 38, 32), upon the ova of the sea-urchin, proves this in a striking manner. By shaking the ova of sea-urchins violently, they can be split up into small portions, which do not contain nuclei; these then be- come globular, and exhibit signs of life for a fairly long time ; further they may be fertilised by spermatozoa. By this means