THE CELL 24 demonstrate a still more minute structure of protoplasm (granula theory). By means of a special method of treatment, this in- vestigator has succeeded in rendering minute particles visible in the body of the cell; these he calls granula. He preserves the organ in a mixture of 5 per cent, solution of potassium bichromate with 2 per cent, solution of perosmic acid; he then prepares thin sections of the organ and stains them with acid fuchsine, finally treating them with alcoholic solution of picric acid, by means of which the differentiation is rendered more distinct. The result of these staining reactions is to render visible a large num- ber of very minute dark-red granules. Sometimes they are seen to be isolated, sometimes more densely packed; sometimes they are near together, sometimes further apart; or they may be united in rows to form threads. In consequence of these observations, Altmann has propounded a very important aud far-reaching hypothesis. He considers these granules to be still more minute elementary organisms, of which the cell itself is composed ; he calls them bioblasts, attributes to them the structure of organised crystals, and looks upon them as equivalent to the micro-organisms which, as individuals, arrange themselves in masses to form a zooglea, or in rows to form threads. " As in a zooglea the single individuals are connected together by means of a gelatinous substance secreted by them- selves, and at the same time are separated from one another by it, so in the cell the same might occur with the granula; in this case also we must-not consider that there is merely water and salt solution surrounding the granula, but similarly that a more gelatinous substance (intergranula substance) is present; this is sometimes liquid, and sometimes fairly viscid in consistency. The great mobility, peculiar to most protoplasm, renders the former probable. If this intergranula substance becomes collected with- out granula at any point in the cell, a true hyaloplasm may be formed, which, being free from living elements, does not really deserve the name of protoplasm." Thus Altmann defines protoplasm as " a colony of bioblasts, the individual elements of which are grouped together either in a zooglea condition or in the form of threads, and which are con- nected by an indifferent substance." " Hence the bioblast is the much-sought-after, morphological unit of all organic substances, with which all biological investigation must finally deal." How- ever, the bioblast is not able to live alone, but dies with the cell