THE HISTORY OF THE PROTOPLASMIC THEORY 7 cell, which could not be reconciled with the old conception of the cell. . A few years after the enunciation of Schwann's theory, various investigators, Kölliker (I. 14), Bischoff (I. 4), observed many animal cells, in lohich no distinct membrane could be dis- covered, and in consequence a lengthy dispute arose as to whether these bodies were really without membranes, and hence not cells, or whether they were true cells. Further, movements similar to those seen in plant protoplasm were discovered in the granular ground substance of certain animal cells, such as the lymph cor- puscles (Siebold, Kölliker, Remak, Lieberkühn, etc.). In con- sequence Remak (I. 25, 26) applied the term protoplasm, which Mohl had already made use of for plant cells, to the ground substance of animal cells. Important insight into the nature of protoplasm was afforded by the study of the lowest organisms, Rhizopoda (Amcebse), Myxomycetes, etc. Dujardin had called the slimy, granular, contractile substance of which they are composed Sarcode. Sub- sequently, Max Schultze (I. 29) and de Bary (I. 2) proved, after most careful investigation, that the protoplasm of plants and animals and the sarcode of the lowest organisms are identical. In consequence of these discoveries, investigators, such as Nägeli, Alexander Braun, Leydig, Kölliker, Cohn, de Bary, etc., considered the cell membrane to be of but minor importance in com- parison to its contents ; however, the credit is due to Max Schultze, above all others, of having made use of these later discoveries in subjecting the cell theory of Schleiden and Schwann to a search- ing critical examination, and of founding a protoplasmic theory. He attacked the former articles of belief, which it was necessary to renounce, in four excellent though short papers, the first of which was published in the year 1860. He based his theory that the cell-membrane is not an essential part of the elementary organisms of plants and animals on the following three facts: first, that a certain substance, the protoplasm of plants and animals, and the sarcode of the simplest forms, which may be recognised by its peculiar phenomena of movement, is found in all organisms ; secondly, that although as a rule the protoplasm of plants is surrounded by a special firm membrane, yet under certain conditions it is able to become divested of this membrane, and to swim about in water as in the case of naked swarm-spores • and finally, that animal cells and the lowest unicellular organisms very frequently possess no cell-membrane, but appear as naked