CHAPTER V. THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL (continued). Metabolism and Formative Activity. General Characteristics. Each living cell exhibits the pheno- mena of metabolism ; it absorbs nutrient material, which it elaborates, retaining certain portions of it within its body, whilst it rejects others ; it resembles a small chemical laboratory, for the most varying chemical processes are almost continually taking place in it, by means of which substances of complex molecular structure are on the one hand being formed, and on the other are being broken down again. The more intense is the vitality of the cell, the more considerable are these processes of destruction and reconstruction, the latter keeping pace with the former. In the chemistry of the cell these two principal phenomena must be clearly kept apart, namely the phenomena of progressive and retrogressive metabolism, or, as Claude Bernard (IV. la) ex- presses it, " les phenomeiies de destruction et de creation organique, de decomposition et de composition." During its destruction the living substance, as a result of its own decomposition, passes through a series of intermediate stages of more simple chemical combinations, the precise nature of which is at present unknown. Carbon dioxide and water are the simplest final products of this decomposition. Tension (potential energy) is converted into active vital force (kinetic energy). Intra-molecular heat becomes free, and represents the living force, which is the essential condition for the production of work in the cell body. The fact that the slightest shock often suffices to call forth great changes and to cause work to be done shows that vital substances are exceedingly unstable in composition: as Pflüger (V. 25, 26) remarks: " Are not the forces which act in a ray of light truly inconceivably small ? and yet they produce most marked effects upon the retina and the brain. How infinitesimal are the forces which serve to excite the nerves ; how extremely minute 12<S