THE CULL 100 propel themselves by means of cilia or flagella, such as Flagel- lata, Ciliata, the swarm-spores of Alga;, etc., prefer to collect either on that side of the cultivation dish which is nearest the window, or on the one which is away from it. This may be easily proved by means of a simple experiment described by Nägeli (III. 16). A piece of glass tubing three feet in length is filled with water containing green swarm-spores of Algoe, (tetraspores), and is placed perpendicularly. Then, if the upper part of the tube is covered with black paper, and light is allowed to fall upon the lower portion, it is seen after a few hours that all the spores have collected in this lower portion, leaving the upper part colourless. If now the upper portion is uncovered, and the paper is transferred to the lower part, all the swarm- spores ascend the tube, and collect on the surface of the water. Eughna viridis is exceedingly sensitive to light (Fig. 44 A, IV. 8). Tf a drop of water containing Euglenm is placed upon a slide, and only a small portion of it is illuminated, all the individuals collect in this area, which, to quote an expression of Engelmann's, acts like a trap. This organism is especially interesting, because the perception of light is restricted to a definite portion of the body. Each Euglena consists of two portions, a large posterior one containing chlorophyll, and a colourless anterior, flagella-bearing one, in which there is a red pigment spot. Now, it is only when this anterior portion comes into contact with light, or is placed in shadow, that the organism is seen to react by altering the direction of its movements (Engelmann). Hence, in this case, a certain part of the body functions to a certain extent as an eye. Stahl (IV. 34) and Strasburger (IV. 37) have investigated most fully the action of light upon swarm-spores. The former sums up his results in the following words:—" Light effects an alteration in the direction of the movements of swarm-spores by causing them to make their longitudinal axes coincide approximately with the light. The colourless flagellated end may be directed either towards or away from the source of light. Either position may become exchanged for the other under otherwise unaltered external conditions, and, indeed, this occurs at very different decrees of light intensity. The intensity has the greatest influence over relative positions. When the light is very intense, the anterior end is directed away from the source •, when it is less strong, the swarm-spores move towards the light."