8 THE CELL protoplasm and naked sarcode. It is true that he retains the term " cell," which was introduced into anatomical language by Schleiden and Schwann; but he defines it (I. 30) as : a small mass of protoplasm endoived with the attributes of life. Historical accuracy requires that it should be mentioned that in this dehnition Max Schultze reverted to the older opinions held by Purkinje (I. 22-24) and Arnold (I. 1), who endeavoured to build up a theory of granules and masses of protoplasm, but with- out much result, for the cell theory of Schwann was both more carefully worked out, and more adapted to the state of knowledge of the time. The term, a small mass of protoplasm, was not intended by Max Schultze and other investigators even then to mean so simple a matter as appears at first. The physiologist, Brücke (I. 6), espec ially came to the correct conclusion, gathered with justice from the complexity of the functions of life, which are inherent in protoplasm, that the protoplasm itself must be of a complex con- struction, that is must possess " an extremely intricate structure," into which, as yet, no satisfactory insight has been gained owing to the imperfections of our means of observation. Hence Brücke very pertinently designated the "ultimate particle" of animals and plants, that is the mass of protoplasm, an elementary organism. Hence it is evident that the term " cell " is incorrect. That it, nevertheless, has been retained, may be partly ascribed to a kind of loyalty to the vigorous combatants, who, as Brücke expresses it, conquered the whole field of histology under the banner of the cell-theory, and partly to the circumstance, that the discoveries which brought about the new reform were only made by degrees, and were only generally accepted at a time when, in consequence of its having been used for several decades of years, the word cell had taken firm root in the literature of the subject. Since the time of Brücke and Max Schultze, our knowledge of the true nature of the cell has increased considerably. Great insight has been gained into the structure and the vital properties of the protoplasm, and in especial, our knowledge of the nucleus, and of the part it plays in cell-multiplication, and in sexual repro- duction, has recently made great advances. The earlier definition, « the cell is a little mass of protoplasm," must now be replaced by the following: " the cell is a little mass of protoplasm, which contains in its interior a specially formed portion, the nucleus:' The history of these more recent discoveries will be entered