296 THE CELL li t T T% °Ut' " "S male «* fe-l« individual, s a t d al" m 1 , ' 0f/enerati0n' N-ertheleSS, it cannot stated as a general law of nature, that ova are always incaoablc of development unless they are fertilised 7 "capable states o!" t,'e.Te(?f,ta]bIe and the »i»^ ^gdoms, numerous in- we™ LT C °.,ng £01'med » SPeoM se»al «!>«, which were, a far as we can judge by their design, originally destined onei:p, yr:rot fei'tilisatiou as ^ ^ *™ ^ behave 7 ? £** n<ied *" «"™"*». «d fa oonseouence like spores 7 T6getatiVe "F"*»*« «- is to say, Only female specimens of CTa™ crimto, one of the higher A ge, are to be found in Northern Europe. In spite of this, ova, winch develop w.tbout fertilisation into normal fruits, are formed m the oogonia. Still more instructive are the cases of parthenogenesis which occur m the animal kingdom. They have been observed chiefly m small animals belonging to the Arthropode*, in Rotatoria, Aphides, Baphmdv, Lepidoptera, etc. At one time females produce in their ovaries only ova which develop without fertilisation, and at another the same individuals form those which require fertilisa- tion. Ova, with such different physiological attributes, generally differ in appearance. The parthenogenetic ones are exceptionally small and poor in yolk, and in consequence develop in a shorter time and in greater numbers; whilst, on the other hand, those which require fertilisation are much larger and contain much more yolk, and consequently require a longer time for their de- velopment. Since the former are only produced in summer and the latter at the commencement of the cold seasön, they have been distinguished as summer and winter eggs. The latter are also called retarded eggs (Dauereier), because they have to pass through a somewhat lengthy period of rest after fertilisation, whilst the summer eggs (Subitaneier) immediately enter upon the process of development. The development of the parthenogenetic summer eggs, and of the winter eggs, which require fertilisation, may be affected by external conditions. In Aphides, abundant nourishment favour's the formation of summer eggs, whilst a diminished supply of nourishment causes the production of ova requiring fertilisation. Baphnidte are also evidently affected by the environment, although the individual factors can be less easily established experimentally.