THE CELL 42 composed, albumen and nitrogenous bases being formed, whilst in addition phosphoric acid separates out. The two latter decom- position products are also formed from nucleic acid. The bases are: adenin, hypoxanthin, guanin, and xanthin." Paranuclei, or pyrenin, is a proteid substance, which is always present in the nucleus; however, the part it plays in the vital functions of the latter has not yet been worked out, much less being known about it than about nuclein. It occurs in the nucleus in the form of small granules, which are described as true nucleoli or nuclear corpuscles (Fig. 20). These paranuclein bodies resist the action of all the media (distilled water, very dilute alkaline solutions, solutions of salt, sulphate of magnesia, potassium phosphate, lime-water) in which nuclein substances swell up. Whilst the latter disappear from view in the nuclear cavity, which .has become homogeneous in appearance, the former often stand out with greater clearness. They are invariably more easily seen after death than during life. This explains the fact that these nuclear corpuscles were well known long ago to the older histologists, Schleiden and Schwann, who always examined their tissues in water. Osmic acid is a very useful reagent for rendering these corpuscles visible, for it very much increases their refractive power, whilst rendering the nuclein structures paler. Paranuclein and nuclein behave quite differently towards acetic acid (1 to 50 per cent.). Whilst the latter coagulates, and in- creases in refractive power, the nuclear corpuscles swell up more or less, and may become quite transparent; however, they do not become dissolved, for if the acetic acid is washed away, they shrink up, and become visible again. In addition, it must be pointed out that paranuclein, in contradistinction to nuclein, is insoluble in 20 per cent, solution of common salt, in a saturated solution of sulphate of magnesia, in 1 per cent, and 5 per cent, solutions of potassium phosphate, of ferrocyanide of potassium plus acetic acid, and of copper sulphate ; finally, it is very resistent to the action of the pan- creatic juice. . . Further distinct differences are shown in their behaviour to- wards staining solutions. As Zacharias has observed, and as I can corroborate as a general rule from my own experience nuclem bodies become especially clearly and intensely coloured m acid staining solutions (aceto-carmine, methyl green, and acetic acid),