THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 203 Thus in the egg of the round worm of the horse the union of the two sexual nuclei, which is the final stage of fertilisation, only occurs during the formation of the first divis!on spindle, m which process they take an important part. The important principle enunciated by van Beneden is as follows : Hal ot the nuclear segments of the first division are derived from the egg- nucleus, and half from the sperm-nucleus, hence they may be distinguished as male and female. Now since m this case as before in nuclear division, the four segments split longitudinally, and then separate, and move towards the two centrosomes, two groups o£ four daughter-loops are formed, of which two are ot male and two of female origin. Each group then transforms itself into the resting nucleus of the daughter-cell. Thus it is indisputably proved, that each daughter-nucleus in each halt of the e<rg produced by the first division process contains two equal quantities of nuclein, one of which is derived from the egg-nucleus, and the other from the sperm-nucleus. 2. The Fertilisation of Phanero- gamia. The discoveries which have been made concerning the processes of fertilisa- tion in Phanerogamia correspond most completely with those which have been ob- served in the animal kingdom. Stras- burger (VII. 38) and Guignard (VII. 15) stand in the first rank of investigators. Themost suitable objects for examination are the Liliacese, especially Lilium martagon and Fritillaria imperialis. One of the cells, into which the pollen grain divides in Phanerogams, corresponds to the sperma- tozoon, whilst the vegetable egg-cell, which in the ovule is enclosed in the ovary of the gyncecium, forms the most important por- tion of the embryo-sac, and corresponds to the animal egg. When the pollen grain has reached the stigma of the style, its contents commence to emerge through a weakened portion of the membrane, and to develop into a long tube (Fig. 143), which penetrates into the style until it reaches an embryo-sac. Here Fig 143.—Section through the embryo-sac of lilium martagon (after Guignard XV., Fig. 75). At the end of the pollen-tube, whose weak- ened wall is allowing its contents to escape, the sperm-nucleus may be seen with its two centrosomes. The egg-nucleus is also pro- vided with two centrosomes. On the right, at the end of the pollen tube, a sytiergida may be distinguished which has commenced to disinte- grate.