THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 285 We may take either Botrydium or Ulothrix (Fig. 155) as an example of isogamous fertilisation. If minute swarm-spores from different sources are placed in a drop of water and examined with a high power of the microscope, some of them are seen to approach each other immediately, their hyaline anterior ends (b) com- ino- into contact; and after a short time they commence to fuse together. At first they touch each other laterally (c), after which they grow to- e-ether, the fusion commencing at their anterior ends and gra- dually extending backwards. The couple (d) hurry about for some time in the water with an intermittent and stag- gering movement. After a short time the fusion is so far advanced that the two gametes form a single thick oval body, which, however, betrays its derivation from two indi- viduals by containing two pig- ment spots and four flagella (e,/). The zygote now gradu- ally slackens its movements, until finally it comes to rest; it then loses its four flagella, which are either drawn in or thrown off, becomes globular in shape, and surrounds itself with a cell-wall. Frequently the resting stage begins only a few minutes after the commencement of pairing; in other cases, however, the zygote may swim round in the water with its four flagella for three hours, in a naked condition, without a membrane, until finally it draws in its flagella, and sinks to the ground. The gradual appearance of sexual differentiation can be followed still better in the very numerous species of lower Algas, in which the fertilisation of gametes occurs. As in Spirogyra (Fig. 153), one of the two individuals, which Fig. 155.— Botrydium granulatam (after Strasburger, Fig. 139): A free plant of medium size (x28); B swarm-spore, fixed with iodine solution (x540); C isogametes. a a single individual; b two isogametes which have just come into contact; c, <I, and c the same lying side by side; / zygote, produced by the complete fusion of the gametes ( x 610).