THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 107 « » masses and globules being gradually taken up by the neighbouring streams of protoplasm, carried along by them, and finally split up. If strong shocks are repeatedly administered, so that the whole cell is affected, a return to the normal condition is impossible, for the protoplasmic body, by becoming partially coagulated, has been transformed into turbid flakes and masses. In Amcebce and ivhite blood corpuscles the streaming motions of the granules and the crawling movements of the whole cell are both arrested for a time by slight induction shocks ; after a while they are resumed and proceed in a normal fashion. If stronger induction shocks are administered, the result is that the pseudo- podia are quickly withdrawn, and the body contracts up into a ball; finally, very strong shocks cause the bursting and consequent destruction of the contracted spherical body. If the induction current is applied for a considerable time to one of the lower unicellular organisms, it can be gradually destroyed bit by bit, and thus diminished in size. In Actinosphcerium the process is as follows : the pseudopodia, which are parallel to the current, soon exhibit varicosities; they are gradually completely with- drawn, whilst the protoplasm becomes massed together to form little balls and spindles (Fig. 51); then at this place the surface of the body becomes gradually destroyed by a process resembling to a certain extent a kind of melting down, during which the vacuoles, which are con- tained in the protoplasm, burst. On the other hand, those pseudopodia which are at right angles to the cur- rent are unaffected. When the stimulus is removed, the body, which has thus been reduced to about a half or a third of its original size, gradually recovers, and re- produces the parts which have been destroyed. The action of the constant current upon the Actino- sphcerium (Fig. 55), Actino- phrys, Pelomyxa, and Myxomycetes, is similar to this. When the circuit is closed, an excitation occurs at the positive pole or an Fig. 54,-ActinnsphcBrium Eichhornii, action of an interrupted current. Progressive de- struction of protoplasm is equal at both poles. (After Verworn, Tab. 1, Fig. 6.) ode