or A, THE CELL division of a fertilised egg, remain associated together, forming a colony of cells or an organic individual of a higher order. Re', garded from the common point of view, from which we here treat the sexual question, they may be compared to the collection of cell individuals, multiplying asexually by division, which are derived from a fertilised mother Infusorian. The generation cycle closes here, when in the multicellular organism sexual cells, which have become mature, unite after the processes of fertilisa- * tion have occurred, and thus form the starting-point for new generations of dividing cells. The generation cycle may, in this case, present a very different picture, being sometimes very complicated in character. The simplest form is seen in many of the lower multicellular Algne, such as Eudorimt, or Pandorina. A cell colony (Fig. 137) is produced by the repeated division of the fertilised cell. After having lived for a definite period, all the cells become sexual cells. In order that conjugation may occur, the whole colony produced by cell division splits up into in- dividuals, which serve as starting-points for new generation cycles. The capacity, which each cell thus exhibits of reproducing the whole multicellular organism, is not seen when the organism is somewhat more highly developed. The cell substance, which has been derived from a fertilised egg, and which has multiplied by division to an immeasurable extent, then separates itself into two masses, one of which consists of cells which serve to build up the tissues and organs of the plant or animals, and the other of those destined to function in reproduction. In consequence the or- ganism generally remains unaffected in itself when it reaches sexual maturity; it continues to detach the sexual elements from itself, so that they may start new generation cycles, until in con- sequence of the deterioration of the cells of iis own body, or from any other cause, it succumbs to death (Nussbaum VIT. 33; Weismann VII. 48). In its purest form, a fixed and definite cycle is only to be met with in the higher animals, in which multiplication of individuals is only possible through sexual reproduction. In many species of the animal and vegetable kingdoms sexual and asexual multipli- cation take place simultaneously. In addition to the cells which requh-e fertilisation, there are others which do not need it, and which, having detached themselves from the organism in the form of spores or pseud-ova, or as large groups of cells (buds, shoots, etc.), give rise to new organisms solely by repeated