THE CELL 40 b. Nuclear Substance. As regards its composition, the nucleus is a fairly fixed body. Two chemically distinct proteid substances, which can be distinguished from one another with the microscope, are always present; very often there are more. The two constant ones are nuclein or chromatin, and paranuclein, or pyrenin ; in addition, linin, nuclear sap, and amphipyrenin are generally to be found. Of these, nuclein, or chromatin, is the most characteristic pro- teid of the nucleus, and it generally preponderates as regards quantity. When fresh it resembles non-granular protoplasm (hyaloplasm), but it can be easily distinguished from this substance by its behaviour towards certain staining solutions. After it has been caused to coagulate by means of reagents, it takes up the colouring matter from suitably prepared staining solutions (solu- tions of carmine, hsematoxylin, aniline dyes), as has been discovered by Gerlach. This occurs to a more considerable extent during the stages preceding division, and during division itself, than when the nucleus is in a resting condition. Whether this is due to chemical or to physical causes has not yet been worked out. The art of staining is now so fully understood that it is quite easy to make the nuclein of the nucleus stand out clearly from the rest of the nucleus and the protoplasm, which are either quite colourless or are only slightly stained. In this manner even small particles of nuclein, only about as large as Bacteria, may be rendered visible in comparatively speaking large masses of protoplasm, as, for example, the minute heads of spermatozoa, or the chromosomes of the direction spindles in the centres of large egg-cells. The following fact, which is emphasised by Fol (II. 13), may at some future period prove to be of far-reaching importance : " that the staining of the nucleus with neutral staining solutions always produces the same shade of colour as the dye in question assumes when a small quantity of a substance of basic reaction is added to it. For example, red alum carmine becomes lilac when the solu- tion is rendered slightly alkaline, Böhmer's violet hematoxylin becomes blue, red ribesia (black currant juice) bluish-green, whilst the red dye made from red cabbage turns green. Now, it has been observed that nuclei of tissue-cells, stained with neutral solutions of these substances, exhibit a con*esponding colouration; that is to say, they become lilac in alum carmine, blue in hematoxylin, light blue in ribesia, green in the colouring matter of red cabbage. That part of the nucleus which can be stained {the nuclein) behaves,