THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CElLI 69 directions." Further, the rate of movement may vary in different places, or it may gradually alter; it may be so great that under a powerful lens the granules appear to travel so fast that the eye can scarcely follow them; on the other hand, it may be so small that the granules scarcely appear to change their place. The second kind of movement consists of a change of form in the individual threads and in the network as a whole. As in the Amcvhi, processes are protruded and withdrawn from various places, a mass of homogeneous protoplasm being first protruded, into which the granular protoplasm flows later on. Occasionally' when the streaming movements are very powerful, it appears as though the granular endoplasm is pressed forcibly into the newly formed processes. By this means the plasmodium can, like the Anueba, crawl slowly along over a surface in a given direction- new processes are continually being protruded from the one edffe' towards which the endoplasm chiefly streams, whilst others are withdrawn from the opposite one. Gromia oviformis (Fig. 40) is a classical object amongst the Reticulana, for the study of protoplasmic movements (see p. 29) If the htt e organism has not been disturbed in any way, a We number of long fine threads may be distinguished stretching ot, from the protoplasm, which has made its way out of the capsule and spreading themselves out radially in every direction il the' water; here and there lateral branches are given off and oc casionally all the threads are united together fnto a lZi Z such branches Even the most delicate of these threads exhib^ movements. As Mas Schnitze (I. 29) aptly describes it, « a g id g a flowing of the granules which are imbedded in the thread substance, may be seen with a hio-h power- << tW i the thread, m Iess ^ J^Z^^£%£Z n the other Section; freooen% streams flowing fcons may be seen at the same t.me * bot rec- «»e, nntU ier a short 'p^se 1™ZZt^l^ £ & ongmal d.reetions, or one takes the other alongtS it 1, th* Krannles in a thread do not move alo™ nt n,„ 18 sometimes one may overtake Z£?££ Z2JT ! stopped b7 it." Manv Pvi.l^M T PassiDg it or being of tL thread, Ä T 'ZTT ^ :eet. Freqnen% otherjarger majs of S^LIZ ^