115 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL solution, and rinsed with clean water, was placed in pure sugar solution, lie found that fermentation soon occurred; hence the yeast had recovered its power of converting sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, this power having, bj the action of the chloroform and ether, been temporarily suspended. In a similar manner the functions which the chlorophyll per- forms in plants, and the dependent process of giving off oxygen in the sunlight, may be arrested by means of chloroform (Claude Bernard). b. Second Group of Experiments. Chemical Stimuli which come into contact with the cell-body at one spot only. Very interesting and varying phenomena are produced when chemical substances, instead of coming into contact with the body all round, only impinge upon it, at a definite fixed point. Such stimuli may produce changes in form, and movements in a definite direction, which phenomena have been classed under the name of Chemotropism {Chemotaxis). Chemotropic movements may be directed towards the stimulating source, or, on the contrary, away from it. In the first case the chemi- cal substance is said to attract, and in the second to repel, the protoplasmic body. This depends partly upon the chemical nature of the substance, partly upon the individual properties of the special kind of plasma, and, finally, upon the degree of conden- sation of the chemical substance. A substance, which when dilute may attract, may repel when the solution is strong. Here, as with strong and weak light, special differences are present.' Just as heliotropism may be positive or negative, so may chemotro- pism be positive or negative. We will first examine the action of gases, and next that of solutions; at the same time we will become acquainted with a very ingenious method of investigation, for which we must especially thank the botanist Pfeffer (IV. 26). 1. Gases. Oxygen has great attractive powers for freely moving cells, as has been shown by the experiments of Stahl, Jlingelmani], and Verworn. ,Jtahl ™ ^ «Jfim«ate.»P<m the plasmodia of MfhaMam £*mm (IV. 86) He half filled a glass cylinder with thoroughly a v v IM 1' o °r"er *° eXClude the he —red with a ve, y ihm layer of od. He then took a strip of filter paper, over hmh a plasmodmm had extended itself, and plaeed Ling the s.de of the oyhnder m sneh a manner that ooe half of it was