120 THE CELL tions a specific stimulative effect is exerted upon them. Tin's, however, can only be perceived indirectly, and can only be ex- plained by the supposition that the attitude, so to speak, of the antherozoids towards malic acid has experienced some modifica- tion. Pfeffer is able in this case to demonstrate a relation simi- lar to that expressed by the Weber-Fechner law for the mental perceptions of man: " Whilst the stimulus increases in geometrical progression, the perception or reaction increases in arithmetical progression." This ratio, which in many respects is very important, can be observed in the behaviour of antherozoids towards malic acid. To the fluid, containing the fern antherozoids, some malic acid is added in such a quantity that when the two are well mixed to- gether a solution of "0005 per cent, is produced. If now a capil- lary tube containing a solution of '001 per cent, is inserted, attrac- tive influence, as was the case when the antherozoids were in pure water, can be perceived. The tube must now contain a "015 per cent, solution in order to pi'oduce an effect, and if the water, in which the antherozoids are, contains '05 per cent, of malic acid, the solution in the tube must be 1"5 per cent, in strength. Or more generally expressed, the solution in the tube must be thirty times as strong as that from which the antherozoids are to be attracted. The sensitiveness to stimuli, or the stimulation tone of the antherozoids, is affected, if they are present in a liquid which contains a certain proportional amount of the substance ivhich is to act as the stimulus. Thus it is possible in an artificial way to render them non- sensitive towards weak solutions of malic acid, which under ordinary circumstances constitute excellent stimuli, whilst on the other hand they may be made susceptible to attraction from strong concentrations of malic acid, which would repel antherozoids accustomed to living in pure water. Individual cell bodies behave very variously towards chemical substances, just as they do towards light. Malic acid, which exerts such a powerful attraction upon fern antherozoids, does not affect those of Feather-moss at all. For these, however, a 1 per cent, solution of cane sugar acts as a stimulus, whilst on the other hand neither of these substances has any effect on Liverwort or CharacecB. A 1 per cent, solution of meat extract or of Asparagin exerts a strong attraction upon Bacterium termo, Spirillum undula, and many other unicellular organisms. Even after a short period,