277 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL The theory built up by Weismann, Strasburger, Maupas, Richard Hertwi-, and myself may be worked out more in detail in the following manner. Daring fertilisation two circumstances must be considered, which work together and yet are opposed to one another. In the first place, it is necessary for the nuclear substances of the two cells to become mixed ; hence the cells must be able to find one another and to unite. Secondly, fertilisation affords the starting point for a new process, of development and a new cycle of cell divisions; hence it is equally important that there should be present, quite from the beginning, a sufficient quantity of developmental substance, in order to avoid wasting time in procuring it by means of the ordinary processes of nutri- tion. . In order to satisfy the first of these conditions, the cells must be motile, and hence active; in order to satisfy the second, they must collect these substances, and hence increase in size, and this of necessity interferes with their motility. Hence one of these causes tends to render the cells motile and active, and the other to make them non-motile and passive. Nature has solved the diffi- culty by dividing these properties—which cannot of necessity be united in one body, since they are opposed to one another—between the two cells which are to join in the act of fertilisation, according to the principle of division of labour. She has made one cell active and fertilising, that is to say male, and the other passive and fertilisable, or female. The female cell or egg is told off to supply the substances which are necessary for the nourishment and increase of the cell protoplasm during the rapid course of the pro- cesses of development. Hence, whilst developing in the ovary, it has stored up yolk material, and in consequence has become large and non-motile. Upon the male cell, on the other hand, the second task has devolved, namely of effecting a union with the resting eo-o-.cell. Hence it has transformed itself into a contractile sperma- tozoon, in order to be able to move freely, and, to as large an extent as possible, has got rid of all substances, such as yolk material or even protoplasm itself, which would tend to interfere with this main purpose. In addition it has assumed a shape which is most suitable for penetrating through the membrane which protects the egg, and for boring its way through the yolk. We may transfer the terms male and female from the cell ele- ments, which are thus differentiated sexually, to the nuclei which they contain, even when these are equal both as regards