225 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL touch each other. At the animal pole they meet in a short trans- verse farrow, the animal cleavage line. The pointed ends of the two remaining cells, which do not come in contact with the pole, meet this line at its extremities. A similar arrangement is seen at the vegetative pole: here the two cells, which did not touch the animal pole, meet along a vegetative cleavage line, which is 'always in such a position that if both lines were projected upon a common plane they would intersect at right angles. Here the four cells, which are obtained by quartering the original cell, are not of the shape of ordinary quarters of a sphere. Each has a blunt and a pointed end, the latter being directed towards the pole of the egg. Each pair of cells formed from a hemisphere are so ar- ranged that similar ends point in opposite directions. A corresponding arrangement of the first four cleavage cells has been described by von Rabl in the eggs of Planorbis, and by von Rauber (VI. 56) in Frogs' eggs. The latter has entered into more details than the former. Similarly in oval eggs, in which, according to our law, the first division plane is transverse to the longitudinal axis, distinct separations of the cells from each other occur during the second cleavage, which is vertical to the first. In consequence, well-marked cleavage lines appear, as is seen in Fig. 114 in the egg of Ascaris nigrovenosa. Fig. 114.—An egg of Ascaris nigrovenosa with four segments. (Alter Auerbach, PI. IV., Fig. 19.) lb. Unequal Segmentation. Unequal division comes naturally after equal. It is most generally caused by the unequal distribution of the protoplasm and yolk substance in the cell. The Frog's egg, in which polar differentiation has occurred, will serve as an example of this. There, as has already been stated, the nucleus is situated in the upper or animal half of the sphere (p. 217). Now when division- is about to occur, the axis can no longer lie in any one of the radii of the egg, for, in consequence of the unequal division of the protoplasm in the egg space, it is influenced by that part of the egg, which is pigmented and rich in protoplasm ; this portion rests like a sknll-cap upon the more transparent deutoplasm-con-