44 THE CELL sap; these, being artificial products, must not be confused with the normal structures. Hence cell-sap must contain various substances in solution, amongst which albuminates are probably present; Zacharias has grouped these together under the common name of paralinin, a term which may well be dispensed with. The name amphipyrenin has been applied by Zacharias to the substance of the membrane which separates the nuclear space from the protoplasm, just as this latter is separated from the ex- terior by the cell membrane. In many cases it is as difficult to demonstrate the presence of this nuclear membrane, as to decide the vexed question whether a large number of cells are enclosed by membranes or no. It is most easily seen in the large germinal vesicles of many eggs, such as those of Amphibians, where it is at the same time somewhat dense in consistency. It is on this account that it is so easy to extract the nucleus quite intact from immature eggs with a needle. The nuclear membrane can be DO ruptured, as a result of which its contents flow out, and may be spread out in the liquid in which the examination is taking place. But it seems to me to be equally certain that, in other cases, a true nuclear membrane is absent, so that the nuclear sub- stance and protoplasm come into direct contact. Thus Flemming (II. 10), in the blood cells of Amphibians, and I myself, in the sperm-mother-cells of Nematodes at a certain stage of their develop- ment (Fig. 20 B), have failed to discover a nuclear membrane. Altmann has endeavoured, by means of a special staining process with cyanin, to demonstrate a granula structure in the nucleus as well as in the protoplasm. By means of this process he has succeeded in intensely staining the sap which fills up the iuterstices in the nuclear network, and in thus showing up granula, whilst the nuclear network remains uncoloured, and is designated intergra'iu'a substance. In this manner Altmann has obtained a, so to speak, negative impression of the nuclear structure, as it becomes re- vealed by staining the nuclear network with the usual nuclear staiuing reagents. Since he considers that the granula form the most important part of the nucleus, his opinion of the relative importance of the nuclear sub- stances differs from the one which is generally accepted, and according to which the nuclear sap is of less importance than the nuclein and par-nu- clein. c. The Structure of the Nucleus. Examples of its various Properties. The above-mentioned substances, of which nuclein and paranuclei at any rate are never absent, occur in very different forms in the nuclei of various plant and animal cells ; this is especially true of nuclein, which may be present as