THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL '281 pIG. 152. — Two Closteria, which have developed from a zygospore, before they have escaped from their enclosing membrane. the process of dissolving is quite completed, the two halves of the zygote gradually assume the shape of a Chsterium cell (Fig. 152). What, is the significance of this second division, which occurs immediately after the first, without any intermediate resting stage ? It appears to me that by its means the same result is obtained, although in a different manner, as is produced by the division, with reduction, which occurs during the maturing of egg and . sperm-cells. In both cases by means of the double division the nuclear sub- stance is reduced to one half of that contained by a normal nucleus, and thus an increase of nuclear substance is avoided when, in consequence of fertilisation, two nuclei coalesce. Similarly in Besmidiacese- a reduction of nuclear substance occurs after fertilisation, and thus the double amount of nuclear substance, produced by the conjugation of two complete, fully developed nuclei, is reduced to a normal quantity. The germinal nucleus, instead of dividing into two daughter-nuclei, splits up in consequence of the two divisions, which follow immediately upon one another, into four grand- daughter-nuclei. The protoplasmic body, however, is halved, each portion containing only one functional nucleus; the other two, being useless, disappear. This supposition might be proved to be correct, if the nuclear segments were accurately counted at the various stages. One circumstance, which may be mentioned in its support, has fre- quently been observed by Klebahn, namely that in Gosmarium the four granddaughter-nuclei, which are derived from the ger- minal nucleus, are distributed unequally between the halves of the zygote, the one half containing one single active nucleus, and the other containing three, two of which degenerate. It does not matter whether the two degenerating nuclei fall to the share of one or both cells during division, since they behave like yolk contents. In Besmidiacese we have observed conjugation as it occurs m isolated living cells ; the Zygnemacese teach us its method of pro- cedure in a colony of cells, where several individuals have joined together in rows to form long threads. When, in the thick felt-like masses with which the Algoe cover