169 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL means of the protoplasm, and, like the lime and silica particles, are deposited as an insoluble modification in the cellulose mem- brane, or both substances originate on the spot, through a chemical transformation of the cellulose. This is another problem which must be decided by means of physiological chemistry rather than through morphological investigations (vide p. 153). The question as to how the cell membrane grows is a very im- portant problem, and has led to much discussion; it is very diffi- cult to come to any decision on the subject. Two methods of growth may be distinguished, a superficial and an interstitial method. The delicate cellulose coating, which at first is scarcely measureable, may by degrees attain a very considerable thickness, growing by the addition of numerous lamina?, the number of which varies with the thickness. It is most probable that layer after layer is deposited by the protoplasm of the outer layer which was at first differentiated off. This method of growth is termed " growth by apposition," in contradistinction to " growth by in- tussusception," which, according to Nägeli, is the way in which the cell-wall grows, that is to say, by deposition of particles in the interstices between the particles already present. The apposition theory is supported by the following three ob- servations : (1) Before the ridge-like thickenings are formed upon the inner surface of a cell-wall, the protoplasm is seen to collect together at those places, where thickening of the wall is about to occur, in masses, which exhibit active streaming movements. (2) When, in consequence of plasmolysis, the protoplasmic body has receded from the cell-wall, a new cellulose membrane is seen to appear on its naked surface (Klebs IV. 14). If the plasmolysing agent be removed, and the cell-body be made to increase in size by the absorption of water, so that its new cellulose membrane comes into close contact with the original cell-wall, they unite with one another. (3) When a plant cell divides, it may often be plainly seen that each daughter cell surrounds itself with a new wall of its own, so that the two newly-formed walls of the daughter-cells are enclosed by the old wall of the mother-cell. It is more difficult to explain the growth in superficial area of the cell-wall. This may be effected by two different processes, working either singly or in unison. The membrane may become stretched, like an elastic ball which is inflated with air; or it may grow by intussusception, that is to say, by the deposition of new cellulose particles between the old ones.