THE CELL r,4 threads, a few of which are extended throughout the nuclear space. A considerable time before division occurs, the nuclein A B CD Fig. '62. —A Resting nucleus of a. primitive sperm cell of Ascaris megalocepluihi bivalens ; B nucleus of a sperm mother cell from the commencement of the growth zone ; C resting nucleus of a sperm mother cell from the growth zone; D vesicular nucleus of a sperm mother cell from the commencement of the dividing zone just before division. becomes arranged in definite threads (D). A nucleolus is always present in the meshes of the framework. III. Are there Elementary Organisms existing without Nuclei ? The important question, as to whether the nucleus is an indispensable portion of every cell, follows naturally on the description of the chemical and morphological properties of the nucleus. Are there elementary organisms without nuclei? Formerly investigators were not at a loss to answer this question. For since, in consequence of the inadequacy of former methods of examination, no nuclei had been discovered in many of the lower oro-anisms, the existence of two different kinds of elementary cells Avas assumed : more simple ones, consisting only of a mass of protoplasm, and more complex ones, which had developed in their interior a special organ, the nucleus. The former were called cytodes by Haeckel (I. 10; II. 15), to the simplest, solitary forms of which he gave the name of Monera; the latter he called cellulse, or cytes. But since then the aspect of the question has become' considerably changed. Thanks to the improvements in optical instruments, and in staining methods, the existence of oro-anisms without nuclei is now much questioned. In many of the lower plants, such as Alga? and Fungi, and in Protozoa, Vampyrella, Polythalamia, and Myxomycetes, all quoted formerly as examples of non-nucleated cells, nuclei may now be demonstrated without much trouble. Further, since the nucleus has been discovered in the mature ovum (Hertwig II 19'a), we may safely say that, in the whole animal kingdom, there is 'not a single instance where the existence of a cell with- out a nucleus has been proved. I shall probably be confronted with the red corpuscles of Mammals. It is true that they contain no nuclei, but then neither do they contain any true proto-