ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 59 in the water, its molecules separating from one another, and dis- tributing themselves evenly throughout the water. Its power of swelling up and its non-solubility in water are the most important properties of an organised body, without which it is inconceivable that the vital processes could proceed. Many organised bodies may be dissolved if treated according to special methods, as for example starch and gelatine-producing substances, which become dissolved when they are boiled in water. But even these starch and gelatine solutions differ very much in their chemical properties from solutions of salt or sugar. The latter diffuse easily through membranes, whilst the former either do not do so at all, or only to a very small extent, whilst their solutions are slimy or viscous. Graham distinguishes bet ween the two groups of substances, which exhibit such different properties in solution, by calling them crystalloids and colloids. Now Nageli has attempted to explain all these phenomena as being due to differences in the molecular structure of the various bodies. As atoms combine together to form molecules, thus pro- ducing so great a variety of chemical substances, so he considers that the molecules unite together in groups to form still more complex units, the micellce, and that in this manner the complex properties of organised bodies arise. In comparison■ with that of the molecule, the size of the micella is considerable, although too small to be seen with the microscope; it may be built up, not only of hundreds, but even of many thousands of molecules. Nägeli ascribes a crystalline structure to these micellce, in con- sequence of their power of double refraction, which further is ex- hibited by many organised bodies, such as cellulose, starch, mus- cular substance, and even protoplasm itself in polarised light. In addition, great differences may be present in their outwardappear- ance as well as in their size. The micellae have an affinity for water as well as for each other; hence their power of swelling up. In a dry organised body the micellae lie close together, being only separated by delicate envelopes of water; as more water becomes absorbed these envelopes increase considerably in size, since at first the micella, have a stronger affinity for water than for each other the? become pushed apart from each other by the penetraW water as with a wedge ; << however, organised bodies cannot become really dissolved, for the molecular attraction of the micellae lor the water diminishes with distance at a proportionally greater