138 THE CELL violet), and sometimes are more or less soluble (fuchsine, methyl orange, tropaeolin). Further, animals afford us good examples of this storing up in living cells. Fertilised eggs of EcMnoidea acquire a more or less intense blue colouration, if they are placed for a short time in a very dilute solution of methylene blue (Hertwig IV. 12b). A small accumulation of colouring matter does not arrest the process of segmentation, which still continues, although somewhat slowly, in a normal fashion, and in some cases may go on even until the gastrula is formed. Here the colouring matter is chiefly deposited in the endoderm cells, which points to the conclusion that it is by the agency of the yolk material that the accumulation takes place. Living Frog and Triton larvae become of an intense blue colour if they are left for from five to eight days in a weak solution of methylene blue. In this case the colouring matter combines with the granules in the cells (Oscar Schultze V. 44). After remaining for days in pure water they commence to become colourless again. If indigo-carmine is injected directly into the blood of a mammal, it is soon taken up both by the liver-cells and by the epithelium of the convoluted tubules of the kidney, and then is excreted either into the biliary ducts, or into the kidney tubules (Heidenhain V. 42). If methylene blue is injected into the blood, it combines with the substance of the nerve fibres, imparting to them a dark blue colouration (Ehrlich V. 41). Alizarin is stored up in the ground substance of the bones. Next to the chemical affinities, which exist between the par- ticles of matter within the cell and those outside of it, the study of the physical processes of osmosis is of the greatest importance for the comprehension of the absorption and rejection of matter. We must here observe whether the membrane, when present, is more or less permeable. As a rule it is much more permeable to dissolved substances than is the protoplasmic substance itself. This latter is separated from the exterior by a peripheral layer (cf. p. 15), which, according to Pfeffer, plays a most important part in the process of osmosis. If some substance in solution is to be taken up into the protoplasm, it must first be imbibed by the peripheral layer; that is to say, its molecules must become deposited between the plasmic particles, and from there be trans- ferred to the interior. Further, a substance in solution can, even if it be not actually absorbed, produce an osmotic action by exerting an attraction upon the water contained in the cell, and by thus