152 THE CELI his u especally true of all the processes winch are described above as belonging to the formative activity of the cell WhZ relatxoBshtpdc.es the protoplasm bear to its organised products such as the cell membrane, the intercellular substance etc ? Jwo quite opposite views have been suggested upou this sub- ect According to the one, the organised substances are formed by the transformation of the protoplasm itself, that is to sav through the chemical rearrangement or splitting up of the proto- plasmic molecules; according to the other, on the contrary, they are supposed to be formed of plastic materials, carbo-hydrates^ fats, peptomsed proteids, etc., which are taken up during metJ bohsm by the protoplasm, conveyed to the place where they are required, and there brought into a suitable condition for secre- tion. This difference may be best explained by an example, such as the formation of the cellulose membrane of the plant cell According to a hypothesis which has been strongly supported by Strasburger (V. 31-33) amongst others, the microsome containing protoplasm becomes directly transformed into cellulose lamella. • that is to say, cellulose, as a firm organised substance, is formed directly out of the protoplasm. Another theory is, that some non-nitrogenous plastic substance, such as glucose, dextrin, or some other soluble carbo-hydrate, forms the materials from which the cell membrane is constructed. These materials are conveyed by the protoplasm to the place where they are required, arid are here converted into an insoluble modification, cellulose. Since this cellulose acquires a fixed struc- ture from the beginning, the protoplasm must, in a manner at present unknown to us, assist in its construction; this process is described by the expression " formative activity." According to the first hypothesis, the cellulose membrane may be described shortly as a metabolic product of the protoplasm, and, according to the second, as a separation product of it, The question of the formation of chitinous skin, of the ground substance of cartilage and bone, of calcareous and gelatinous sub- stances, may also be regarded from the same two points of view; in fact, all conceptions of the metabolism of the cell present the same difficulty. Claude Bernard (IV. la) described this relationship in the following words: "Prom a physiological standpoint it may be conceived that in the organism only one synthesis occurs, that of