2^ THE CELL should require fertilisation and others not ? Weismann (VII 40) Bloohmann (VII. 44), Plainer (VII. 47), and others, have made the interesting discovery, that parthenogenetic ova, and those requiring fertilisation, exhibit an important and fairly essential difference in the matter of the formation of the polar cells (vide p. 236); whilst in the case of the latter two polar cells are divided off in the usual manner, in that of the former the development of the second polar cell, and consequently also the reduction of the nuclear substance, which is otherwise connected with this process, do not occur. Hence the egg-nucleus of the summer egg, of a DapJinia, for instance, possesses without fertilisation the whole nuclein mass of a normal nucleus. However, this interesting behaviour by no means explains the nature of parthenogenesis. For the summer egg has the ten- dency to develop without fertilisation, before it begins to form the polar cells, as is seen from the small amount of yolk it con- tains, the different nature of its membranes, etc. Hence the ovum does not become parthenogenetic because it does not form the polar cell ; but, on the contrary, it does not form the polar cell because it is already destined for parthenogenetic develop- ment; it does not develop it because, under these conditions, the reduction of the nuclear mass, which presupposes subsequent fertilisation, is unnecessary. Many peculiar phenomena connected with parthenogenesis have been observed, the closer study of which will probably con- tribute much to the explanation of this question. Such a phenomenon, the importance of which cannot at present be esti- mated, is the fact, that the preparatory process for fertilisation can be retraced, even after the polar cell has been formed. In many animals, the ova, if they are not fertilised, commence to develop parthenogenetically, at the normal time. Attempts are made by the ova of many worms, of certain Arthropods and Echinoderms, and even of some Vertebrates (birds) to begin to segment in the absence of male elements, and eventually to form germinal discs; but at that point they come to a standstill in their development and die off. Abnormal external circumstances seem to favour the occurrence of such parthenogenetic phe- nomena in individual instances, as, for example, in Aster acanthi on. The following remarkable occurrence has been observed by Boveri in Nematodes and Pterotrachea, and by myself in Asteracanthion? during the formation of the polar cells.