340 THE CELL viz. cells, so each cell is composed of numerous, small, hypothetical elementary particles. Darwin, Spencer, N채geli, and de Vries have called these hypo- thetical units by different names, although they mean the same thing by them. Darwin (IX. 6) in his provisional hypothesis of Pangenesis, calls them little germs or gemmulse ; Spencer (IX. 26), in his Principles of Biology, speaks of physiological units; N채geli (IX. 20), of particles of idioplasm or groups of micella ; and de Vries, in his essay upon Darwin's Pangenesis, calls them Pangena3. What then are these small elementary portions of the cell, which I will in future call idioblasts, in accordance with N채geli's views, who, in my opinion, has most ably criticised the subject in question ? It must be borne in mind, in answering this question, that no precise definition of an idioblast can at present be given, like that given by chemists and physicists of the terms atoms and mole- cules. We are still on unknown ground, like the scientists of the eighteenth century, who tried to prove that animal bodies were constructed out of elementary units. Naturally, the danger of going astray increases, the more we try to work this hypothesis out in detail. I will, therefore, confine myself as far as possible to the most general considerations. The hypothetical idioblasts are the smallest particles of material into which the hereditary mass or idioplasm can be divided, and of which great numbers and various kinds are present in this idioplasm. They are, according to their different composition, the bearers of different properties, and produce, by direct action, or by various methods of co-operation, the countless morphological and physio- logical phenomena, which we perceive in the organic world. Me- taphorically they can be compared to the letters of the alphabet, which, though small in number, when combined form words, which, in their turn, combine to form sentences ; or to sounds, which produce endless harmonies by their periodic sequence and simultaneous combinations. De Vries remarks that "just as physicists and chemists have been obliged to resort to atoms and molecules, the biologist has been forced to presuppose the existence of certain units, in order to ex- plain by means of them the various vital phenomena." In N채geli's opinion, " the characteristics, organs, structures, and