229 THE VITAL PHENOMENA OF THE CELL nuclear spindle, with a polar radiation at each end, develops out of its contents. This changes its position in the yolk (Fig. 118 I.), raising itself gradually towards the animal pole, until its end touches the surface. It then arranges itself with its longitudinal axis in the direction of a radius of the egg. Cell-budding soon commences at the place where one of the poles of the nuclear figure touches the surface ; the yolk arches itself up to form a small knob, into which half of the spindle protrudes itself (Fig. 118 IL). The protuberance then becomes constricted at its base, and, with half of the spindle, separates itself from the yolk, forming a very small cell (Fig. 118 III.). Then the whole process repeats itself (Fig. 118 IV.-VL), the half of the spindle which has re- mained in the egg, without previously passing through a resting vesicular or nuclear condition, developing first into a complete spindle. This process, as far as it refers to the nuclear spindle, will be entered into at more detail on p. 237. Cell-budding occurs frequently amongst certain species of uni- cellular organisms. I will select from amongst these a second example, which has been examined by Richard Hertwig (VI. 35), the Podophryn gemmipara, a marine Acineta, which attaches itself by means of a stalk at its posterior end to other objects. From eight to twelve cell-bads not infrequently develop at its free end, which is provided with prehensile tentacles and suction tubes; these cell-buds are grouped in a ring around the centre of the free surface. In this case, the nucleus divides in a peculiar fashion. As long as the ■ Podophrya is young, and has not yet commenced to bud, the nucleus has, as in so many Ciliata, the form of a long horse- shoe-shaped twisted band (Fig. 119 b). . Later on, a large number of pro- cesses grow out in a ver- tical direction, towards the free surface of the body ; their ends soon Fig. 110. — Cell-lradding, Podophrya gemmipara swell Out into knobs with buds (°* HertwiS. Zoology, Fig. 21); a buds, ii ,. „ which become detached and form zoospores b ; N whilst the portion of the nucleu8.