THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 149 membered that a large proportion of plant cells, namely all those which do not contain chlorophyll, are in a position similar to that occupied by animal cells; these also, since they cannot assirm- late directly, must obtain from the green cells, the material neces- sary for the maintenance of their life, for their growth, and for their reproduction. Thus the same antithesis, which is present in the economy of nature between plants and animals, also exists in the plant itself between its colourless and its chlorophyll-con- taining cells. Claude Bernard has shortly and in a striking way expressed the relationship in the following words : " If, in the language of a mechanician, the vital phenomena, namely the construction and destruction of organic substance, may be compared to the rise and fall of a weight, then we may say that the rise and fall are accomplished in all cells both plant and animal, but with this difference, that the animal element finds its weight already raised up to a certain level (niveau), and that hence it has to be raised less than it subsequently falls. The reverse occurs in the green plant cells. In a word, ' Des deux versants, celui de la descente est preponderant chez l'animal; celui de la montee, chez le vegetal'" (Claude Bernard, IV. la, vol. ii. p. 514). Now, having placed the subject of the chlorophyll function in its trae position, we will proceed to examine the important uniformity which exists in the chemistry of metabolism between plant and animal cells. We must first lay stress upon the fact that a large number of the materials made use of in progressive and retrogressive meta- morphosis are common to both plants and animals. Further, the means by which certain important processes in plant and animal cells are carried out appear to be similar. Carbo-hydrates, fats and albuminous substances are not adapted in every condition for direct use in the laboratory of the cell and for conversion into other chemical compounds. It is necessary to prepare them by transforming them into a soluble and easily diffusible form. This occurs, for instance, when starch and glyco- gen are converted into grape sugar, dextrose and levulose; when fat is split up into glycerine and fatty acids, or when proteids are peptonised. Sachs (IV. 32a) describes the above-mentioned modifications of carbo-hydrates, fats and proteids as their active condition, in dis-