308 THE CELL eer» m Hence Maupas is of opinion that cross fertilisation betw individuals of different origin is necessary for Infusoria also. The ineffectually of self-fertilisation has also been proved i certain cases amongst Phanerogamia. Hildebrandt (VII. 24, p 66) says of Gorydalis cava: "If a flower of this plant, in which the opened anthers lie close to the stigma, be protected from fertilisation by insects, no fruit is ever formed in it; that this is not due to the circumstances of the pollen not coming in con- tact with the susceptible part of the stigma may be seen from the fact that even those flowers, whose stigmata were powdered with the pollen of the surrounding anthers, were non-fertile." " A perfect fruit can only develop when the pollen of the flowers of one plant is placed on the stigma of another; it is true that fruit is formed when the flowers of the same vine are crossed • but the resulting plants produce a much smaller number of seeds than is normal, and further they do not always come to perfect maturity." A similar absence of result after self-fertilisation has been observed in a few other plants, i.e. certain species of Orchids, Malvaceae, Reseda, Lobelia and Verbascum. Unfortunately, no very thorough investigation concerning the behaviour of hermaphrodite animals has been made; the diffi- culties of such research would be very .great. No doubt cases would be also found here in which no fertilisation occurs between the eggs and spermatozoa of the same individual when they are artificially brought into contact; with snails, for instance, this must be the case. However, in opposition to the above-mentioned examples,, we find others, which prove both that complete sexual affinity does exist, and also that normal development by self-fertilisation does take place between sexual cells, which are very nearly re- lated to one another. Thus in the case of certain Conjugate (Rhynchonema) sister- cells unite with one another, or, as in Spirogyra, cells which belong to the same filament conjugate together (vide p. 283). Further, in many Phanerogams not only can the egg-cells be fertilised with the pollen of the same flower, but the resulting plants are strong and healthy; and, moreover, this in-breeding" can be continued through many generations with equally happy l'esults. Between the two extremes—the absence of any sexual affinity