THE VITAL PROPERTIES OP THE CELL 129 (anaerobic Bacteria, etc.) the respiration of oxygen is a funda- mental characteristic of the whole of organic nature, being abso- lutely necessary for the continuance of the metabolic processes upon which life depends, and through which by the oxidising of complex molecular compounds the vital forces must be produced. As a rule the lack of oxygen very quickly arrests the functions of the cell (its irritability, powers of movement, etc.): and finally death of necessity ensues. Some of the fermentation organisms, the fission and pullulating fungi, appear to form an exception to this fundamental process of respiration. For they are able to grow and multiply in a suitable nutrient fluid when completely shut off from oxygen. In this case, however, the oxygen necessary for the oxidation processes in the protoplasm is obtained through the decomposition of the fer- menting substance. Similarly intestinal parasites are able to exist in an environment comparatively free from oxygen by splitting up of compounds of which a superfluity is supplied to them (Bunge V. 2). What is the part played by the oxygen after it has been taken up by the cell? It was formerly believed that the oxygen directly oxidised the living material, so that, as it was ßguratively expressed, a pro- cess of combustion was called forth, as the result of which heat was given off. However, there seems to be little doubt but that the forces which result in the combination of the oxygen origi- nate in the vital substance itself. In this mixture of special albuminous bodies, and their derivatives, which goes under the name of protoplasm, and in which, moreover, fats and carbo- hydrates are stored up, important molecular re-arrangements and re-groupings of atoms, often the result of very minute exciting causes, take place ; amongst these, decomposition and dissocia- tion occur. " Under these circumstances many decomposition products continually develop an affinity for free oxygen (oxidative decomposition), and it is in this way that oxygen takes part in the process of metabolism " (Pflüger V. 25, 26). Hence in conse- quence of respiration, and at the cost of the organic substance, combinations rich in oxygen are produced; and finally, through the repeated dissociation and oxidation of these substances, carbon dioxide and water, the most important final products of the de- structive processes of living substance during respiration are produced. This is true for every animal and every plant cell. If plant cells (staminal hairs of Tradescantia, cells of Characese), K