354 THE CELL entirely superfluous. Neither Nägeli nor de Vries consider that the ancestral plasms have this construction ; they assume rather that the units contained in the two hereditary masses are capable of mixing with one another. Neither can I imagine that, during the process of hereditary transmission, the idioblasts of paternal and maternal origin continue as parts of two separated elemental germs, it seems more likely that they unite together in some way or other to form a compound elemental germ. How then, on this supposition, is the summation of the here- ditary mass, occasioned by the act of sexual generation, to be avoided? I do not think that there is the slightest difficulty if we assume the divisibility of the hereditary mass as a whole. Even Weismann has assumed that this is possible at the beginning of sexual generation, otherwise, a summation of the ancestral plasms, could not have taken place without causing an increase of the hereditary mass. But the hei*editary mass can only be divided, without its pro- perties being altered, if several individual units of each different kind are present in it. Since the progeny are produced from two almost equal combinations of elemental germs, derived from the parents, there must be at least two individuals of every kind of idioblast in the embryo. Nothing prevents us, however, from conceiving that, instead of two individuals of each kind, there may be four, eight, or speaking generally, a number of equivalent idioblasts in the hei'editary mass. Then it is self-evident, that a reduction of mass, without the essential nature of the idioplasm itself being altered, is possible in the same manner, as has been observed during the maturation of the sexual products, and there- fore any further complicated hypotheses are superfluous. In order to explain the so-called reversion to an ancestral type, we need not assume the existence of ancestral plasms, for, as will be seen later, the elemental germs may themselves remain latent. 4. Isotropy of Protoplasm. Various investigators have at- tempted to ascribe to the whole egg a very complex organisa- tion, namely, that it is composed of very minute particles, the arrangement of which corresponds to that of the organs of the mature animal. The clearest conception of this subject is that formulated by His in his " Princip der organbildenden Keimbezirke." According to this author, "on the one hand, every point in the embryonal area of the germinal disc must cor-