316 THE CELL <hT 1 fertiHsed after twe^y-five hours, some develop normally, and a not inconsiderable number irregularly in consequence of multiple fertilisation, whilst a small number re- main unaffected. The results obtained with Echmoderm ova seem to me to offer an explanation of the fact, that domesticated animal and vegetable species are generally more easily crossed than nearly related species m the state of nature. The entire constitution seems to be altered and rendered less stable by domestication. The changes are most evident m the sexual products, since the generative apparatus is sympathetically affected by any variations which take place in the body. r In self-fertilisation, as in hybridisation, sexual affinity is in- deed by the environment. Darwin (VII. 8) has pointed out, that Eschscholtzia californica cannot be induced to fertilise itself in Brazil, whilst it can in England; moreover, if seeds from England are taken back to Brazil, they quickly become useless for self- fertilisation. Further, various individuals behave in different manners. Just as in Echinoderms, in which some of the ova of an ovary may be fertilised with foreign spermatozoa, and others not, so we find experimentally, that some individuals of Reseda odorata can fertilise themselves whilst others cannot. In a similar manner we must attribute to individual differences of the egg-cells of an ovule the circumstance that in many plants far fewer seeds are produced by self-fertilisation and hybridisation than by normal fertilisation. A certain number of egg-cells either are not receptive to the foreign pollen, or if they do become fertilised, die prema- turely. Recapitulation and attempted Explanations. If we now review the facts described in the last chapter, there can be no doubt but that the necessity of fertilisation of the sexual cells and sexual affinity, which is closely connected with it, are extremely complicated, vital phenomena. The factors which are influential here are beyond our knowledge. Many circumstances seem to point to the fact, that the conditions, under which the egg-cells are able to develop either parthenogenetically or in connection with a sperm-cell, must be sought for in small differences of molecular organisation. Similarly, we can only explain the facts, that sometimes self-fertilisation and cross-fertilisation are possible, and at others not, that the egg-cells of the same individual often behave differently during self-fertilisation and cross-fertilisation,