THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL 165 throughout the ectoderm. It consists of an oval capsule (a and 6), which is formed of a glistening substance, and which has an opening in that end which is directed towards the external sur- face. The internal surface is lined with a delicate lamella which, at the edge of the opening, merges with the sheath of the cap- sule ; the structure of this sheath is frequently very complicated (of. Fig. 70 a, b). In the figure, this sheath consists of a very delicate filament and of a broad, conical, proximal portion, which is situated in the interior of the capsule, and is provided with shorter and longer barbs. The filament stretches from the end of the conical por- tion, and is wound spirally round and round it several times ; the free, internal cavity is filled with an irritating secretion ; the protoplasm, which borders on the ne- matocyst, is differentiated to form a con- tractile envelope, which also has an open- ing to the exterior (Schneider V. 45). Near the opening of the capsule a rigid, glistening, hair-like process, the cnidocil, stretches out from the free surface of the cell. If this is touched by any foreign body, it communicates the stimulus to the protoplasm. In consequence, the cnido- blast, enclosing the nematocyst, contracts suddenly and forcibly, thereby compressing it, and forcing out the thread which is in the interior, so that it is turned inside out, like the finger of a glove (Fig. 70 6). At first the conical proximal portion is protruded with the barbs extended outwards, next comes the delicate, rolled-up thread. The irritat- ing secretion is apparently poured out through an opening in the capsule. Some light is thrown upon the formation of this extraordinary apparatus by the history of its development. First of all, an oval secretion cavity is formed in the cnidoblast; this cavity is separated from the protoplasm by a delicate membrane, then a delicate protoplasmic process grows into the secretion cavity from the free end of the cell; it gradually assumes the position and form of the internal thread apparatus, separating upon its surface the delicate enclosing membrane. Finally, the shining, tough, ex- FiQ. 70.—Thread cells of a Cnidarian (from Lang; Hertwig, Zool., Fig. 161): a cell with cnidocil, and the thread coiled up in the capsule ; h thread evagi- nated from the capsule, and armed at its base wich barbs ; c prehensile cell of a Ctenophore.