279 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL cell membranes become dissolved. A connecting bridge, which continually grows broader, develops; after which the proto- plasmic masses stream together from all sides, until the two in- dividuals become transformed into a single large vesicle, lüe two nuclei, each accompanied by a centrosome, travel towards each other, and place themselves in contact, but, according to Ishikawa, do not fuse (VII. 25). After a time, the conjugating pair of Noctilucce again divide into two cells, a partition membrane having developed between them. At the commencement of this division, the pair of nuclei, which have nnited together become extended ; they then become constricted in the middle, and divide into two, after which they separate again, the result being that each Noctüuca contains half of each nucleus. Thus the result of conjugation is the production again of two individuals, each of which possesses a nucleus of twofold origin. Fertilisation is followed sooner or later by active multiplication by means of budding and spore formation. The Conjugate (VII. II) are of especial importance in the study of primitive modes of fertilisation. This order is sub- divided into three families : the Desmidiacese, the Mesocarpem, and the Zygnemacese. Klebahn (VII. 27) has discovered the minute details of the process of fertilisation in two species of Desmidiace®: the Clos- terium and Cosmarium. Two Closterium cells, which are shaped somewhat like bent sickles, lie lengthwise against each other, being kept in contact by a gelatinous secretion; each then develops a protuberance near its centre. The two protuberances come closely into contact and fuse, whilst the wall separating them dissolves, to form a conju- gation canal common to both. Here all the protoplasm from both the conjugating Closterium cells gradually collects, and, detaching itself from the old cell membrane, fuses to form a single globular body, which finally becomes surrounded by a membrane of its own. This zygospore or zygote, which has been produced by the fusion of two similar indi- viduals, now passes through a resting stage, which lasts for several months (Fig. 150). Fig. 150. — Zygote of It contains two nuclei, which were derived Stenum, just before germination. (Atter Kle- from the two cells, and which remain apart bahn, pi. xiii., Fig. 3.)