334 CHAPTER IX. THE CELL AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM (THEORIES OF HEREDITY). We are forced to the conclusion, that the cell is a highly or- ganised body, composed of numerous, min ate, different parts, and that hence it is in itself to a certain extent a small elementary organism, when we consider, that it is capable of executing move- ments, and of reacting in a constant manner to the most various external stimuli, which may be chemical, mechanical, or caused by heat or light; and further that it can execute complicated chemical processes and can produce numerous substances of definite com- position. This idea is still more impressed upon us, when we take into account the fact, that egg- and sperm-cells form by their union the elemental germ which develops into an organism, the latter reproducing on the whole the attributes of the parents, even often to the most insignificant characteristics. Hence we must conclude, that the egg- and sperm-cells possess all the constituent proper- ' ties which are necessary for the production of the final result of the developmental process. It is true that these properties elude our perception, but that they are anything but simple, is evident from the complex composition which is attained by the final product of development in the highest organisms. The sexual cells must therefore, of necessity, possess a large number of attri- butes and characteristics, which are concealed from us, but whose presence renders the formation of the final product possible. These hidden or latent properties, which only gradually become evident during the process of development, are called fundamental con- stituent attributes. These attributes, taken collectively, to a certain extent foreshadow or potentially determine the matured organism. At a certain stage of their development, when they are simple cells, all organisms are extremely alike. The ova of man, of ro- dents, of ruminants, and even of many invertebrate animals, do not differ from one another in any essential points; they resemble one