ITS CHEMICO-PHYSICAL AND MORPHOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 43 whilst paranuclein bodies remain almost unaffected ; on the other hand, the latter become better stained in ammoniacal staining solu- tions, such as ammonia, carmine, etc. Many substances, such as eosin, acid fuchsine, etc., have a greater affinity for paranuclein. Hence it is possible, by using two staining solutions at the same time, to stain the nuclein bodies a different colour from the para- nuclein ones, thus bringing about a so-called contrast staining (fuchsine and solid green, haematoxylin and eosin, Biondi's stain); however, since the nature of staining processes is as yet very im- perfectly understood by us, it is not possible at present to lay down general rules concerning the staining properties of these two nu- clear substances. I consider that nuclein and paranuclein are the essential constituents of the nucleus, and that its physiological action depends in the first instance upon their presence. . They seem to me to be correlated in some way or other. Memming (II. 10) has suggested, that the nucleoli may consist of nuclein in a special condition of develop- ment and density, thus representing a preliminary chemical phase of it. The material that we have at present for examination is not sufficient to enable us to decide these questions. The three other substances which may be distinguished in the nucleus, limn, nuclear sap, and amphipyrenin, appear to me to be of much less importance; it is possible also that they are not alwavs present. J The name in™ has been applied by Schwarz (II. 37) to the material of which the threads, whioh frequently form a network or framework m the nuclear cavity, eonsist j these threads are not aöeetea by the ordmary staining reagents nsed for the nnelens, acL" W I* 7T' a\We" " by th6ir different in- actions, be easily distingmshed from the nnclein, which is deposited upon them m the form of small particles and granules £g |o A O). In „a respects it resembles the plastin of proto- plasm, and indeed Zacharias has called it by that name Nocii« S4P may be present in larger or smaller quantities- fills up the mtersfces left in the structures composed of nnclein hmn, and paranuclein. It may be compared to the cell-san which7. contained m the vacuoles of the protoplasm, and no donhÄon m a s milar manner by nourishing the unclear substances ust 2 the cell-sap nourishes the protoplasm. By the action nf' IT , reagents, such as absolute alcohol, chromic ac d etc fin ^ >ar precipitates are caused to make their l^^JZ