113 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL are employed medicinally, the attempt is made to act upon the nervous system alone, for if all the elementary cells were affected, a cessation of the vital processes would result, and death might ensue. However, the following examples will prove clearly that the irritability of animal and vegetable protoplasm may be temporarily destroyed without permanent harm. The sensitive plant, or Mimosa pudica, is very easily affected by mechanical stimulation. When a leaflet is shaken a little, it immediately closes itself up, and forsaking its upright position, di'oops downwards. In addition, it forms an example of the rapid manner in which a stimulus is conducted in plants, in which, since no nerves are present, it must be simply transmitted by each pro- toplasmic cell quickly conveying the impulse to its neighbour. In consequence of this, if the stimulus is sufficiently strong, not only do the leaves which were directly touched close up, but also those on the same branch, and eventually even the whole plant, are affected. In consequence of the stimulation, certain mechanical arrangements, not suitable for present discussion, come into play. In order to study the effect of anaesthetics, a sensitive plant, in a condition of normal irritability, should be placed under a bell- jar, and when the leaves are fully extended, a sponge soaked with chloroform or ether should be inserted (Claude Bernard IV. 1). After about half an hour it is seen that the chloroform or ether vapour has caused the protoplasm to lose all its irritability. When the bell-jar is removed, the leaves, which are spread out as usual, may be touched, or even severely crushed or cut, without any reaction being produced ; the result is the same as that pro- duced on one of the higher animals provided with nerves. And yet, if proper precautions have been taken, it is found that the protoplasm has not been killed, for after the sensitive plant has been for a short time in the fresh air, the narcosis gradually disappears; at first, individual leaves gradually close up when they are roughly handled, until finally complete irritability is restored. Ova and spermatozoa may be subjected to the action of narcotics m a similar manner. When Richard Hertwig and myself (IV. 12a) placed the actively motile spermatozoa of a sea urchin in a "5 per cent, solution of chloral-hydrate in sea water, we found that after five minutes, their motions were completely arrested; however these soon recommenced, after the chloral solution had been diluted with pure sea water. Further, those spermatozoa which had been I