AS THE ELEMENTAL GERM OF AN ORGANISM 343 micella of crystalline construction composed of several molecules, lbs absolute weight is the trillionth part of 3 53 mg. The specific weight of dry albumen is F344. Hence, 1 cubic micro-millimetre contains about 400 million micellae. Nageli, basing his calculations on some further hypotheses, considers that the volume of such a micella is -0000000021 cub. mic. mil. Further, upon the supposi- tion that micellae are prismatic, and are only separated from one another by two layers of molecules of water, 25,000 micellae would occupy a superficial area of T sq. mic. mil. Hence, in a body of the size of a spermatozoon there would be room for a considerable number of micellae, united together in groups. Thus, no difficul- ties present themselves on this point. Logically thought out ideas are especially valuable, when they harmonize with perceptible facts. The following observations are in support of the above-mentioned hypothesis, i.e. that idioblasts multiply by growth and sub-division ; the capacity of self-division does not only apply to the individual cell as an elementary organ- ism, but also to the above-mentioned masses of special material, which are enclosed in the cell. Chlorophyll, starch, and pig- ment formers multiply by direct division ; the centrosomes, which are only just perceptible with the microscope, also divide, when nuclear segmentation occurs ; the nuclear segments split up longi- tudinally into daughter-segments, and this is attributed by many to the presence in the mother-thread of qualitatively different units (mother-granules), which are arranged in a row one behind the other; each of these is supposed to divide directly into two, after which the daughter-granules thus obtained, distribute them- selves evenly amongst the daughter-segments. Even if the idioblasts, which we have supposed to be of a much smaller size, do not themselves take part in these divisions, we may assume that groups of idioblasts are so concerned; the importance of these observations, as concerns our theory, consists in this, that they teach us how small masses of material grow in the cell by themselves, and are able to multiply by division. Finally, another aspect of this theory may be mentioned here. If the elemental germs, taken in the aggregate, give rise to a definite organism, the individual constituents must evolve in regular sequence, during the process of development. As sentences, with logical meanings, are formed of words, and these of letters ; and similarly, as harmonies, and whole musical compositions, consist of individual notes, suita.bly arranged, so we must also