137 THE VITAL PROPERTIES OF THE CELL As to whether a given substance will be absorbed or not can, ac- cording to Pfeifer, who has carefully studied the subject, only be decided empirically. The substances excreted by cells also vary. Just as with absorption, excretion depends upon the special individual properties of the living cell body. The red or blue-coloured petals of phanerogamic flowers do not allow the concentrated solution of colouring matter which they contain to become diffused into the surrounding water as long as they are alive. However, as soon as the cells die, the colouring matter commences to pass through the cell-wall. In order to really understand all these complicated phenomena, it would be necessary to possess an exhaustive knowledge of the chemistry and physics of the cell. For the property, which I have designated above as the power of selection, must in the last instance be traced back to the chemical affinities of the very numerous substances which, being formed during the process of metabolism, are present for a time in the cell. The same thing, doubtless, occurs here as with the absorption of oxygen and carbon dioxide, which can only take place when, through metabolic processes, sub- stances with chemical affinities for them are set free. It is on this account that no carbon dioxide is taken up by plants in the dark, although it is immediately absorbed, if, under the influence of direct sunlight, the chemical process for which it is necessary is started. The same thing occurs when living cells absorb aniline dyes. Azolla, Spirogyra, the root-hairs of Lemna, etc., gradually draw up into themselves so much colouring matter out of a very weak solution of methylene blue, that they acquire a deep blue coloura- tion, such as is seen in a 1 per cent, solution. The methylene blue does not stain the protoplasm itself, but simply passes through it, thus forming in the cell sap a solution of ever-increasing strength. Hence the death of the cell, which would inevitably occur if °the poisonous methylene blue were to be collected in such quantities m the protoplasm itself, does not ensue. This storing up in the cell sap is caused by the presence in it of substances which, with the aniline dye, form compounds, which osmose with difficulty. Pfeffer considers that the tannin which is so frequently found in plant cells is a substance of this nature. This tannin, with the aniline colour, forms compounds which are sometimes insoluble, and hence are precipitated in the cell sap (methylene blue, methyl