THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODYLONDON : PBIKTED BY 6P0ITISWO0DE AND CO., NEW-STHEEI SQUjEl! AND PABLIAMENT STREETHOLDEN'S MANUAL OF THB DISSECTION OF THE HUIAN BODY EDITED BY LUTHER HOLDER, F.E.C.S. BUnOEON TO ST. BABTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, AND LECTURER ON ANATOMY AT THAT HOSPITAL; MEMBER OP THE COUNCIL OP THB ROYAL COLLESE OP SURGEONS OP ENGLAND ; SURGEON TO THB FOUNDLING HOSPITAL AND JOHN LANGTON, E.E.C.S. ASSISTANT-SURGEON TO, AND DEMONSTRATOR OP ANATOJry AND OPERATIVR SUBGEnV AT ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL ; SURGEON TO THE CITY OP LONDON TRUSS SOCIETY ILLTJSTBATED WITH NtTMEBOUS WOOD ENQBAVINGS THIRD EDITION JOHN CHURCHILL & LONDON SONS, NEW BURLINGTON MDCCCLXVIII STREETTO THE STUDENTS OP ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL IN THE HOPE THAT IT MAY ASSIST THEM IN THEIR ANATOMICAL STUBIES BY THEIR FAITHFUL FRIEND AND M'ELL-WISIIER THE AUTHOEPREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION, Without departing from the original object of the Manual, new matter has been added here and there to this edition, more es- pecially concerning the Anatomy of the Brain, the Organs of the Senses, and the Abdominal Viscera. A few additional woodcuts have been introduced ; and the order of dissection altered where it was considered advisable. The author takes this opportunity of acknowledging that the real work of preparing this edition has been done by his colleague Mr. LANaTON, one of the Demonstrators of Anatomy at Saint Bartholomew's Hospital. 65 GownR Strekt : Ociober 1868,PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. —♦— In this edition the author has most carefully revised the entire ■work. Considerable additional matter has been introduced. Many parts, which some students found obscure, have been entirely re-written. The object of the author throughout has been to be as concise as possible, and to put the subject in as clear and practical a light as is compatible with the faithful handling of its natural difficulties. It is hoped that the work, in its present form, is adapted, not only for students, but for members of the profession who wish to refresh their anatomical knowledge. Most of the illustrations are the author's drawings from nature on wood ; many he has taken from his own diagrams which he has found useful in teaching ; others from photographs ; and for someX October 1861. PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. he is indebted to the able pencil of Mr. Godabt, the Librarian of the Hospital. The engraving has been accurately executed by Mr. Joyce, of Bolt Court. P.S.—The author suggests that students will find a great advantage in colouring the woodcuts in light tints: the arteries red, the veins blue, and the nerves yellow. 64 Go"WEB Street :PREFACE TO THE FIEST EDITION. If any apology be needed for the appearance of the present Manual, it may be stated, without any wish to disparage the labours of others, that the works of this kind hitherto published seem to the author open to one or the other of two objections;— either as being too systematic, and therefore not adapted for the dissecting-room, or as obscuring the more important features of anatomy by a multiplicity of minute and variable details. In endeavouring to supply a presumed deficiency, the author has made it his special aim to direct the attention of the student to the prominent facts of anatomy, and to teach him the ground- work of the science; to trace the connection, and to point out the relative situation of parts, without perplexing him with minute descriptions. A concise and accurate account is given of all the parts of the human body, the bones excepted, of which a competent knowledgePREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. XII is presupposed ; and directions are laid down for the best method of dissecting it. The several regions of the body are treated of in the order considered most suitable for their examination; and the muscles, vessels, nerves, &c. are described, as they are successively exposed to view in the process of dissection. The author has written the work entirely from actual observa- tion : at the same time no available sources of information have been neglected, the highest authorities both English and Foreign having been carefuUy consulted. His acknowledgments are especially due to F. C. Skbt, Esq. F.R.S., Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, for many valuable suggestions. He is also much indebted to his young friend, Mr. W. Clubbe, for able assistance in dissections. September 1851.A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY. DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. An incision should be made from the nose along the mesial line to the occiput; another at right angles to the first from one side of the head to the other. These incisions must not divide more than the skin, that the subcutaneous vessels and nerves may not be injured. Strata com- "^^^ several strata of tissues covering the skull-cap posing the are—1, the skin ; 2, a thin layer of adipose tissue which ^'^^^P- contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves and the bulbs of the hair; and by which the skin is very closely connected to, 3, the broad thin tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle (aponeu- rosis of the scalp); 4, an abundance of loose areolar tissue, which permits the free motion of the scalp upon, 5, the pericranium, or periosteum of the skull-cap. Immediately beneath the skin, then, we expose the thin stratum of adipose tissue which connects it to the aponeurosis of the scalp. It forms a bed for the bulbs of the hair and for the ramifications of the cutaneous arteries. The toughness of this tissue, in which the arteries ramify, does not permit them to retract when divided ; hence the haemorrhage which follows incised wounds of the scalp ; hence, also, the difficulty of drawing them out with the forceps. The blood-vessels of the scalp are derived, in front, from the BDISSECTION OF THE SCALP. 2 supra-orbital taud frontal arteries, branches of the internal carotid ; on the sides, from the temporal; behind, from the occijntaZ and posterior auricular, branches of the external carotid. Trace the leading trunks, and observe that they subdivide into branches, which inosculate freely, and finally form a vascular network among the bulbs of the hair. A few small branches here and there dip down through the aponeurosis of the scalp to the pericranium. The veins accompany the arteries. This cutaneous muscle is closely connected to tbe fvZflZ scalp. It consists of two fleshy portions, one on the muscle. occiput, the other on the forehead, connected by a broad aponeurosis. The origin of the muscle takes place from the outer two-thirds of the upper curve on the occipital bone, and the ad- joining part of the mastoid process. The fibres ascend over the back of the head, and terminate in the common aponeurosis. The frontal portion, commencing in an arched form from the common aponeurosis near the frontal suture, descends over the forehead, and terminates partly in the skin of the brow, partly in the orbi- cularis and corrugator supercilii. Some fibres run down the nose under the name of the pyramidalis nasi. The aponeurosis of the scalp is continued over the temples and side of the head, gradually changing from tendinous into fibro-cellular tissue. This muscle enables us to move the scalp backwards and forwards. But its chief action is as a muscle of expression. It elevates the brows, and occasions those transverse wrinkles in the expression of sur- prise. Like the other muscles of expression, it is supplied by the facial nerve. There are several small muscles to move the cartilage Muscles of Qf tiie ear. In man they are thin and pale; but m animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing, they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly direct- ing the cartilage of the ear towards the pulse of the air. To indicate the position of this muscle the student M. attollens g^ould draw down the upper part of the pinna of the ear when it will be found immediately under the ridge of skin so produced. It arises from the aponeurosis of the scalp,NERVES OF THE SCALP. 3 and is inserted into the cranial aspect of the upper part of the concha. The situation of this muscle, which is smaller than M. attrahens ^j^g preceding, is indicated by the prominence of skin, produced by drawing backwards the front part of the helix. It arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is inserted into the front of the helix. This muscle is exposed by reflecting the skin from M. retrahens j.jjg ^(jge produced by drawing the pinna forwards. It proceeds from the base of the mastoid process to the lower part of the concha. The retrahens and the attollens aurem are supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve; the attrahens by an offset from the temporal branch of the same nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the ophthalmic thricalp^ division of the fifth. It emerges from the orbit through the notch of the frontal bone, and subdivides into branches, which are covered at first by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis ; but they presently become subcutaneous : some of them may be traced over the top of the head as far as the occipital bone. The supr^a-trochlear nerve is an offset from the frontal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It appears at the inner angle of the eyelids, and supplies the .skin of the forehead. The superficial temporal nerves ramify in compa.ny with the arteries of the same name. Some of them are derived from the superior, and some from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth pair ; others from the facial. The posterior auricular nerve is a branch of the facial, and runs with its corresponding artery behind the pinna of the ear, to supply the attollens and retrahens aurem, and the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. The great occipital nerve is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After passing through the complexus, it appears on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide- spreading branches, which supply the skin over the occiput.DISSECTION OF THE SCALF. The small occipital nerve, a branch of the anterior division of the second cervical (p. 15), runs along the posterior border of the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, and supplies the scalp. Raise the aponeurosis of the scalp, and observe the IZ'cf quantity of loose areolar tissue which intervenes between interest. and the pericranium. This tissue never contains fat. There are some points of surgical interest concerning it Its looseness accounts for the extensive effusions of blood which one often sees after injuries on the head. 2. It admits of large flaps of the scalp being detached from the skull-cap; but these flaps do not mortify because they carry their blood-vessels ^^th them 3 In phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp, it becomes infiltrated with pus and sloughs; hence the necessity of making mcisions; for the scalp will not lose its vitality, and liberate the sloughs like the skin of other parts under similar conditions, because its vessels run above the diseased tissue, and therefore its supply of blood is ""Vhe Ibsorbeiit vessels of the scalp run most of them backwards towards the occiput; a few run towards the root of the zygoma, where they enter the absorbent glands in those situations respec- tively. Here, therefore, one finds glandular enlargements when the scalp is diseased. To examine the brain and it. membranes, the skull-cap must be removed about half an inch above the supra-orbital ridges m front, and on a level with the occipital protuberance behmd. It be terto saw only through the outer table of the skuH and o break through the inner with a chisel. In this way the dura ^:^r Ld th°e brain are less likely to be injured On removing The skull we expose a tough fibrous membrane, t^^^"'^^'' which forms the most external of the membranes of he J^^in. These arteries ramify between the skull and the duia Meningeal ^^ter. Their course may be traced by the grooves which they make in the bones. The most important is i^e'arteria meningea media; a branch of the internal maxillary artery It enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches; one runs in a groove alongDURA MATER. 5 the anterior inferior angle of the parietal; the other curves back- wards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal bone. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which empty themselves into the internal maxillary vein. The arteria meningea parva and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery also supply the dura mater and bones of the middle fossa. The other meningeal arteries are of insignificant size. The anterior come from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic. The posterior come from the occipital and vertebral: these enter the skull through the foramen jugulare and the fora^^ men magnum respectively. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull; hence extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. This is so called from the notion that it gave rise Dura mater. , ^^ ,t ^ ■, . to all the other membranes m the body. It is rough on its outer aspect, where it is more or less adherent to the inner surface of the skull. Internally it is smooth and shining, being lined by the parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane. Its remarkably tough and fibrous structure adapts it exceedingly well to the four purposes which it-serves: 1. It forms the internal periosteum of the skull; 2. It forms, for the support of the lobes of the brain, three partitions—namely, the falx cerebri, the falx cerebelli, the tentorium cerebelli; 3. It forms the sinuses or venous canals which return the blood from the brain ; 4. It forms sheaths for the nerves as they leave the skull. Three parti- ^'^^ partitions formed by the dura mater for the tionsformed support of the lobes of the brain, two are vertical, and matir!'' Separate the two hemispheres of the cerebrum and those of the cerebellum ; the third is nearly horizontal, and supports the posterior cerebral lobes. Falx cerebri. "^'^^ S"^^^* partition is named, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle, 'falx cerebri: It divides the cerebrum into two hemispheres—a right and a left. It begins in a point attached to the ' crista galli; and gradually penetrates6 SINUSES OP THE DURA MATER. deeper as it extends backwards. Its upper edge is convex and attached to the median groove on the inner aspect of the vertex of the skull; its inferior margin is concave and free, and runs along the upper aspect of the corpus callosum. From its base or broadest part proceeds the horizontal partition named ' tentorium cerehellV This forms an arch for the support of the cerebeUi'^ posterior cerebral lobes, so that they may not press upon the cerebellum beneath them. Observe that the tentorium is attached to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, to the superior margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and to the posterior and anterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid. The little partition which separates the lobes of the ■^^^ „. cerebellum is called ' falx cerehellV It is placed ver- cerebelii. •' ^ ^ . tically in the same line with the falx cerebri, and its point is attached to the edge of the foramen magnum. Sinuses of peculiarities of the cerebral circula- THE DOTiA tion that the blood is returned through canals or ' sinuses ' formed by the dura mater. These canals are produced by a splitting of the dura mater into two layers as shown in fig. 1, where 1 represents a vertical section through the superior longitudinal ^' sinus. They are lined by the same smooth — "" membrane as the rest of the venous sys- tem. Since their walls consist of unyield- ing structure, and are always on the stretch, it is obvious that they are admirably adapt- ed to resist the pressure of the brain. There are fifteen of these sinuses; five are pairs, and five are single, as follow:— The five pairs of sinuses arc,— The five single sinuses are,— The lateral. The superior longitudinal. The superior petrosal. The inferior longitudinal. The inferior petrosal. The circular. The cavernous. The transverse. The occipital. The straight. All of these eventually discharge their blood into the internal jugular vein.s. tSUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. 1 1. Superior longitudinal sinus. 2. Inferior longitudinal sinus. 3. Straight sinus. 4. 4. Venae Galeni. Su erior '^^^^ ^^"^ along the upper edge of the falx cerebri longitudinal (fig. 2). It begins very small at the crista galli, sinus. gradually increases in size in its course backwards, and opposite the tubercle of the occipital bone divides into the right and left lateral sinuses, the right being in general the larger. Be- sides numerous veins from the can- cellous texture of the skull-cap, the superior longitudinal sinus receives large veins from each hemisphere of the cerebrum. It is interesting to observe that these veins run from bebind forwards, contrary to the current of blood in the sinus, and that they pass through the wall of the sinus very obliquely, like the ureter into the bladder. The probable object of this oblique entrance is to prevent regurgi- tation of blood from the sinus into the veins of the brain. Cut open the superior longitudinal sinus: observe that it is triangular with its base upwards, and that its cavity is intersected in many places by slender fibrous cords, termed 'chordae Willisii.^* Their precise use is not understood. In the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal sinus we meet with small granulations, sometimes lying singly, sometimes in clusters. They are termed ' glan- dulce Pacchioni,^1[ and are found in three distinct situations:— 1, on the outside of . the dura mater, often so large as to occasion depressions in the bones; 2, on the surface of the pia mater; 3, in the interior of the longitudinal sinus, covered by its lining- membrane. Their size, number, and appearance differ in different * So called after "Willis, •who first described them in his work De Cerebri Anatome, 1664. t After the Italian anatomist, who first described them in 1705. These bodies ■would appear to originate in the subarachnoid cellular tissue, whence they, in their growth, either perforate the dura mater and hollow out the bones, or make tlieir way into the longitudinal sinus. Glandulse Pacchioni8 SINUSES OF THE DURA 3IATER. subjects. Nothing is determined concerning their precise nature ; but it is presumed that they are morbid products, since they are never observed in very young subjects. The brain should now be removed, and preserved in spirit for future examination. Its anatomy with that of its remaining membranes will be described in a subsequent part of this work. The other sinuses should now be examined. These are the two great sinuses through which all Binuses. blood from the brain is returned into the internal jugular veins. Their course is well marked in the dry skull. The right is commonly the larger. Each commences at the internal occipital protuberance, and proceeds at first horizon- tally outwards, enclosed between the layers of the tentorium, along a groove in the occipital bone and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal; it then descends along the mastoid portion of the temporal bone and again indenting the occipital, turns forwards to the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates in the internal jugular vein.* Inferior "^^^^ small size. It runs along the inferior longitudinal free border of the falx cerebri, and terminates in the sinus. straight sinus at the anterior margin of the tentorium (fig. 2). This may be considered as the continuation of the sinus^'^* preceding. It runs along the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli, and terminates at the divergence of the two lateral sinuses. It receives the two ' vense Galeni' (fig. 2), which return the blood from the lateral ventricles of the brain. This is so called because its interior is intersected by Cavernous numerous threads. It extends along the side of the sinus. ° body of the sphenoid bone, outside the internal carotid artery. It receives the ophthalmic vein which leaves the orbit through the foramen lacerum orbitale; and it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (fig. 3). * It has in some subjects another outlet, through the foramen mnstoideimi, or else the posterior condyloid foramen.MATER. SINUSES OF 9 THE DUKA Circular sinus. This surrounds the pituitary gland (P in the diagram), and communicates on each side with the cavernous. These lead from the cavernous to the lateral. There are two on each side. The superior runs along the upper edge of the petrous bone; the inferior along the suture between the petrous and the occipital bones. Petrosal sinuses. Fig. 3. Third nerve .... Fourth nerve.... Sixth nerve .... First branch of the 1 fifth ; Superior petrosal sinus Inferior petrosal sinus . Ophthalmic vein. Carotid artery. Cavernous sinus. Superior longitudi- nal sinus. DIAGBAM OF THE VENOUS SIKUSES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. Transverse sinus. Occipital sinuses. sinuses.* This extends from one inferior petrosal to the other, across the basilar process of the occipital bone. These are very small. They commence around the margin of the foramen magnum, run in the falx cerebelli, and open into the divergence of the lateral * The meeting of the several sinuses opposite the spine of the occipital bone is10 EXIT OF THE CRANIAL NEliVES. The student should now proceed to examine the nerves as they pass out of the base of the skull, and then to dissect the cavernous sinus. Exit of the "^^^ cranial nerves proceed in pairs through the cranial foramina at the base of the skull; they are named— nerves. ^^.^^^ second, third, fourth pair, &c., according to their order of succession from before backwards. The first pair are the olfactory nerves. These cannot be seen, because the olfactory bulbs are removed with the brain, and torn from the delicate filaments which pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second (optic nerve) passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit accompanied by the ophthalmic artery. The third {motor oculi) passes through the dura mat«r, close behind the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The fourth {'patheticus), a small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. It then runs forwards through the sphenoidal fissure, when it lies above the third nerve, and is distributed to the superior oblique muscle. The fifth (trigeminal nerve) passes through an aperture in the dura mater beneath the tentorium cerebelli, just above the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Upon its larger or sensitive root, is developed a great ganglion called the ' Gassenan ganglion: From this ganglion proceed the primary divisions of the nerve—namely, the ophthalmic, which passes through the sphe- noidal fissure; the superior maxillary, thvongh the foramen ro- tundum ; and the inferior maxillary, through the foramen ovale. The small motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communication, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division to supply the muscles of mastication. The sixth (abducens) passes through the dura mater behind the termed the ' torcular Hcrophili,' after tlie celebrated anatomist who first described it. It is a kind of triangular reser\-oir, with the base below, and presents six openings— namely, that of the superior longitudinal sinus, tliose of the two lateral and of the two occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term •torcular' is an incorrect ver- sion of the original word <ra>Kl\v (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus./ EXIT OF THE CKANFAL NERVES. 11 body of the sphenoid, which it grooves. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the external rectus. Fig. 4. Olfactory bulb . . Optic nerve . . . Third nerve , . . Fourth nerve. . . Fifth nerve . . . Sixth nerve . . . Seventh nerve . . Ninth nerve . . , Eighth nerve . . EXIT OF THE CHANIAL NEHTBS. The seventh, consisting of the facial and auditory nerves, passes through the meatus auditorius internus, in which they are con-;12 CAVERNOUS SINUS. nected by small offsets. The facial nerve lies internal to and above the auditory, before it enters the meatus auditorius. The eighth, consisting of the glosso-pharynf/eal,pneu7noga8tric, and spinal accessory, passes through the anterior part of the foramen jugulare. These three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of dura mater. The glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypoglossal net^e, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen in two fasciculi, which unite external to the skull. We must now examine the cavernous sinus, and the nerves which course through its walls to the orbit—namely, the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth. Cavernous This sinus (fig. 3) lies by the side of the body of sinus. the sphenoid bone. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein, which comes through the sphenoidal fissure; behind, the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses run out of it; on the inner side it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (P in the diagram). In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus we trace from above downwards the third nerve, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, on their course to the orbit.* On its inner wall are situated the sixth nerve, and the internal carotid artery. These objects are said to be contained in the cavernous sinus; but they are not bathed by the blood of the sinus, because they are separated from it by the lining membrane. Curves of After the removal of the cavernous sinus, a good the carotid view is obtained of the remarkable curves, like the artery. letter S, made by the carotid artery by the side of the sella turcica. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves, and then passes through the dura mater, between the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve ; here it gives off the ophthalmic * Such is the order in which the nerves are placed in the wall of the sinus. As they enter the orbit, the fourth nerve crosses over the third.13 THE DISSECTION OF THE NECK. artery. While in the cavernous sinus, small branches (arterise xeceptaculi) arise from the carotid and supply the pituitary body, and the walls of the cavernous sinus. Cavernous The superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic plexus. sends up with the carotid artery filaments, which form a plexus round it in its tortuous course through the carotid canal, and by the side of the sphenoid. After a careful dissection you may discover with the naked eye in this plexus, very small ganglia called carotid or cavernous; but they vary in number, size, and situation. Through these nerves a comnaunication is established between the sympathetic and the nerves which enter the orbit. THE DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Make an incision through the skin, down the middle of the neck from the jaw to the sternum; a second along the clavicle to the acromion ; a third along the base of the jaw as far as the mastoid process. Reflect the skin, and expose the cutaneous muscle called the 'platysma myoides.' Between the platysma and the skin is a layer of adipose tissue, called the ' superficial fascia.' It varies in thickness in different subjects, but is generally more abundant at the upper part of the neck, especially in corpulent individuals, in whom it occasions a double chin. The platysma myoides is the cutaneous muscle of myofd^.^ neck. It arises from the subcutaneous tissue over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; thence pro- ceeding over the clavicle and the side of the neck, its fibres become more closely aggregated, and terminate thus:—The anterior cross those of the opposite platysma, immediately below the symphysis of the jaw, and are lost in the skin of the chin ; the middle are attached along the base of the jaw ; the posterior cross the masseter muscle, and terminate partly in the subcutaneous tissue of the cheek, partly in the muscles at the corner of the mouth.14 EXTERNAL JUGULAR VKIX. Tlie platysma forms a strong muscular defence for the neck. It is also a muscle of expression.* It is supplied with nerves h}' the cervical plexus, and by the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Cut through the platysma near the clavicle and turn it upwards. Beneath it lies the general investment of the neck, called the ' de&p cervical fascia.'' Upon this fascia, we trace the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, the external jugular vein, and a smaller vein in front, called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are so variable in size and course, that a general description only is applicable. External '^^^ external jugular vein is formed within the sub- jugular stance of the parotid gland by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. After receiving the transverse facial and posterior auricular veins, it appears at the lower border of the gland, crosses obliquely over the sterno- maatoid muscle (Fig. 5), to its posterior border, nearly as low down as the clavicle, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia and terminates in the subclavian vein. It is usually provided with two pairs of valves. A line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle would indicate its course. To trace the vein, during life, press upon it just above the clavicle; but do not be surprised if you fail to find it; it is sometimes wanting. Near the angle of the jaw the external jugular vein communi- cates by a large branch with the internal jugular. * K the entire muscle be pei-manently contracted it may occasion wry-neck, though distortion from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A case in point is telated by Mr. Gooch {Chirurg. Works), in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of all ordinary means of relief, by the division of the platysma a little below the jaw. The platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called 'cutaneous; from their oiRce of moving the skin. There are not many in man, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one {palmaris brevis) in the palm of the hand. To understand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, by moving not only the skin, but also its appendages. For instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcupine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up and erect their quills: we are all familiar with the broad •pan- nicidus carnosus' on the sides of herbivorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins, and thus rid themselves from insects. In birds, too, these cutaneous muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it.15 ANTEKIOR JUGULAR YEIX. Before its termination the external jugular vein generally re- ceives the supra-scapular, posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins: a disposition very unfavourable for the surgeon, because there is a confluence of veins immediately over the subclavian artery in the place where it is usually tied. Cendcal brancli o£ facial n. . , . N. superficialia colli . . . External jugu- lar T, Anterior jugu lar T, Small occipital n. Anriculo-paro- Im tidean n. il™^ Nervus acces- \\llflV " - — - sorius. Descending ■^^^^\llllm. branch of cer- vical plexus. Anterior jugular rein. DIAGHAM OF THE StTPEEFICIAL NEE^TSS AND VEINS OF THE NECK. The anterior jugular vein is situated more in the middle of the neck, and is much smaller than the exter- nal jugular. It commences by small branches below the chin, and runs down the front of the neck, nearly to the sternum : it then curves outwards, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and opens either into the external jugular or the subclavian vein. We commonly meet with two anterior jugular veins, one on either side; immediately above the sternum they communicate by a transverse branch. The size of the anterior jugular vein is inversely proportionate to that of the external jugular. When the external jugular is small, or terminates in the internal jugular, then the anteriorCUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE NECK. 16 jugular becouaes an important supplemental vein, and attains con- siderable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and we have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Superficial absorbent glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. They are small, and escape observa- tion unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others near the mesial line. ^ ^ The cutaneous nerves of the neck are the superficial nerves of branches of the cervical plexus: the plexus itself cannot the neck. present be seen. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the plexus emerge beneath the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and take different directions. We divide and name them thus (fig. 5) : f Auriculo-parotidean. Ascending branches ^ g^^^i occipital. _ Cutaneous branches of Transverse branch Superficialis colli. the cervical plexus. | (Sternal. Descending branches -j Clavicular. (Acromial. The am-iculo-'parotidean n. comes from the second and third cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the parotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two principal branches, of which the anterior is distributed to the skin over the gland and the side of the cheek; the posterior ascends to the cartilage of the ear, and ramifies chiefly upon its occipital surface. Other filaments communicate in the substance of the parotid gland with branches of the portio dura, or facial nerve. The small occipital nerve comes from the second cervical nerve. It runs near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, where it supplies the back of the scalp. It also sends off a branch which is distributed to the skin of the side of the head. Beneath the sterno-mastoid this nerve commonly forms a17 CERVICAL FASCIA. loop which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The transverse branch, called the n. superjicialis colli, comes from the second and third cervical nerves. It passes forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cer- vical branch of the facial nerve; other filaments descend and sup- ply the skin in front of the neck as low as the sternum. The descending branches are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and divide into three branches, which cross over the clavicle, and supply the skin of the front of the chest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the sternal, supplies the skin over the upper part of the sternum; another, the clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; the third, named acromial, crosses over the acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Keviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution, for they supply the skin covering the following parts—viz., the ear, the back of the scalp, the side of the cheek, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. Cervical ^^^^ ^^^^ branch beneath the fascia near the branch of angle of the jaw (p. 15). It leaves the parotid gland, the fecial and divides into filaments which curve forwards below the jaw; some of these join the transverse branch of the cervical plexus; others supply the platysma. Cerricai '^^^ ^"^"^ ^^^^ attention to the membranous invest- fascia. i^ent called the ' cervical fascia; which encloses the se- veral structures of the neck. In some subjects the fascia IS very thin; in others, with strong muscles, it is proportionably dense and resisting. It is always relatively stronger in particular situations, for the more effective protection of the parts beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts oi the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate cCERVICAL FASCIA. 18 sheaths for the muscles, vesHels, and glands. It isolates them, and keeps them in their proper relative position. A lengthened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. We propose, therefore, to give only a general outline of the fascia, and of its principal layers, com- mencing from behind. Tracing it from behind, we find that the cervical fascia (some- times called deep cervical or muscular fascia of the neck) is attached to the ligamentum nuchse and to the spinous and trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae. From these attachments it passes forwards to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, where it splits into two layers, which invest that muscle and re- unite at its anterior border. It then passes towards the mesial line, where it becomes continuous with the corresponding fascia of the'opposite side. The layer which lies in front of the sterno- mastoid is attached above to the base of the inferior maxdla, to the zygoma, to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Traced downwards, we find it attached to the clavicle and to the upper border of the sternum. In the middle line it is closely connected to the hyoid bone, and below the thyroid body divides into two layers, one being attached to the front ot the upper border of the sternum, the other to the back of the upper border of the same bone. Between these layers there is a well- marked interval, in which are contained more or less fat, and one or two small absorbent glands. This layer forms investing sheaths for the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. The other layer-viz., that which passes beneath the sterno-mastoid—forms the common sheath for the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and the pneumo-gastric nerve, which lie behind this muse e- it proceeds inwards as a thin layer, and is continued behind the pharynx (constituting the pravertebral fascia) to join the fascia of the opposite side. Below, it is attached to the first rib, to which it binds down the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid; and still further down it is continuous with the external coat of the aorta and the pericardium. It may, also, be traced under the clavicleCERVICAL FASCIA, 19 along the axillary vessels and nerves into the axilla. Above it is attached to the angle of the lower jaw, from which it extends backwards to the styloid process, and forms the 'stylo-maxillary' ligament. Thence it is attached to the base of the skull, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the basilar process of the occipital bone. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance, suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated immediately under the superficial layer (which is attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes a more serious affair, since the pus may readily travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it will probably burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and burst into the trachea or the oesophagus. Besides forming sheaths for the several structures of the neck, there are other purposes to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Burns* first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded a case exemplifying the results of its de- struction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely iinited by the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they gape. They are, as the French express it, * canalisees,' and are therefore better able to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which tends to render them flaccid and imper- vious during inspiration. But this anatomical disposition of the * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. C 220 gTERNO-CLElDO-MASTOIDEUS. great veins makes them more liable to the entrance of air wlien wounded. Many deaths are recorded, resulting from the sudden entrance of air into the veins during operations about the neck, or even the axilla. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus arises by a round cleTdTmas- tendon from the upper part of the sternum, and by toideus. fleshy fibres, from the sternal third of the clavicle. It is inserted by a thin aponeurosis into the mastoid process, and about the outer half of the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone. The sternal origin of the muscle is at first separated from the clavicular by a slight interval: subsequently the sternal fibres gradually overlap the clavicular. The muscle is confined by its strong sheath of fascia, in such a manner that it forms a slight curve, with the convexity forwards. Observe especially that its front border overlaps the common carotid artery; along this border we make the incision in the operation of tying the vessel. When both sterno-mastoidei act simultaneously, they tfcern^°^ draw the head and neck forwards, and are therefore mastoid. especially concerned in raising the head from the re- cumbent position. When one sterno-mastoid acts singly, it turns the head obliquely towards the opposite shoulder; in this action it co-operates with the splenius of the other side.* On emergency, the sterno-mastoid acts as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum, its fixed point being, in this case, at the head. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. accessorius, and by deep branches of the cervical plexus. It has three nutrient arteries, an upper mastoid, a middle, and a lower. The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius; the middle mastoid is a branch * The single action of the muscle is well seen when it becomes rigid and causes a wry neck. Other means of relief failing, the division of the muscle near its origin is sometimes beneficial in curing the distortion. In deciding as to the propriety of this operation, we should be careful to examine the condition of the other muscles, lest, after having divided the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity.TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 21 of the superior thyroid; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra-scapular. Anatomists avail themselves of the sterno-mastoid SiTne^k'* muscle, to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 6). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The pos- terior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the free border of the trapezius. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck under the sterno- mastoid, subdivides these great primary triangles into four smaller ones (fig. 6), of unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. The direc- tion of the omo-hyoid muscle renders their boundaries at once obvious. Contents of '^^^ cellular tissue must now be carefully posterior removed from the posterior triangle. The following tiiangle. ujuscles will be seen forming its floor, viz., beginning from above, the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulte, the scalenus medius and posticus. This triangle is subdivided into two unequal parts by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid—an upper or occipital and a lower or clavicular. In the upper tri- angle are found the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and passing obliquely downwards from beneath the sterno-mastoid is the spinal accessory nerve, which enters the under part of the trapezius. The transversalis colli (posterior scapular) artery and vein, and its branch the superficialis colli (which chiefly supplies the trapezius), cross transversely outwards the lower part of the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found along the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid. Nervus "^^^ upper part of the sterno-mastoid is traversed tccessorius. Obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal accessory or n. accessorius. This nerve, one of the three divisions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, arises from the cervical portion of the spinal cord by a series of filaments from the lateral tract as22 NERVU8 ACCES80K1U8. low down as the sixth cervical vertebra. It ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, through the foramen magnum into the skull. It leaves the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, runs behind the internal jugular vein, then passes obliquely through the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of Fig. 6. N. acces3orius Digastricus . Os-hyoides Omo-liyoideus Sterno-mastoid muscle drawn aside. Splenius capitis Levator anguli sca- pulae. Scalenus medins. Scalenus anticus. TBIANGLES OF THE NECK. the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, to which it is dis- tributed. The nervus accessorius supplies also the sterno-mastoid, and, after leaving the muscle, is joined by branches from the second and third cervical nerves. The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, runs into the sterno-mastoid with the nerve. The supra-clavicular triangle is bounded below by the clSilar clavicle, in front by the outer border of the sterno-mas- triangle. ^^-^^ above by the posterior portion of the omo- hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle thus formed will vary in proportion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the extent to which the sterno-mastoid is attached to the clavicle; the trape- zius must also be taken into the account, for in some instances itSUPEA-CLAVICULAR TRIANGLE. 23 comes so far forwards as almost to meet the sterno-mastoid. The depth of the vessels and nerves contained in this space depends not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the platysma myoides, the descending branches of the cervical plexus, and a layer of fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and areolar tissue, and absorbent glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of matter, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the clavicle, or, vice versa, matter formed in the neck may travel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and terminates in the subclavian: but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins proceeding from the suri-ounding muscles; so that we have in this particular situation a confluence of veins, which, when large or distended, are exceedingly em- barrassing. The fascia and the glands should be removed, and the fol- lowing objects carefully dissected. Behind and nearly parallel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversalis humeri) artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher is the trans- versalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis), which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Both these arteries, the last ^particularly, are very irregular in respect to their origin. Search for the outer border of the scalenus anticus, which de- scends from the transverse processes of the cerebral vertebrae to the first rib: running down perpendicularly upon it is seen the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein lies upon the first rib in front24 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES, of the insertion of the muscle. The subclavian artery, which appears behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, must Ije fairly exposed, care being taken to preserve the small branch which proceeds from the brachial plexus to the subclavius muscle. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus will be found emerging between the scalenus anticus and medius, higher than the subclavian artery. The anterior triangle must now be dissected. And trianglT examine the flat muscles in front of the neck, which pull down the larynx; namely, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid.* Eemove the fascia which covers them, disturbing them as little as possible, and take care of the nerves (branches of the descendens noni), which enter their outer borders. The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of the hyoid°' sternum and sterno-clavicular ligament, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os-hyoides. This is the most superficial of the muscles in front of the neck. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of the thyroi'd sternum, below the origin of the sterno-hyoid and the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is situated immediately under, and is much broader than, the sterno-hyoid. Notice that the two sterno-hyoid muscles converge as they ascend to their insertions, and that opposite the cricoid cartilage and the two or three upper rings of the trachea they are in contact with one another. The sterno-thyroid, however, diverge to their insertions and are in contact below, the result of which is that the trachea is completely covered in front by muscular fibres. , ., The omo-hyoid arises from the upper border of the Omo-hyoitt. , , i j • scapula, and from the ligament over the notch, and is * The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mxiscles often present slight transverse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudimentary in man ; but in some animals with long necks, e. g. the giraffe, they are so developed that each de- pressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle and tendon.DEPllESSOKS OF THE OS-IIYOIDES. 25 inserted into the body of the os-hyoides near the great cornu. This muscle is digastric; that is, it consists of two fleshy portions connected by a tendon. From the scapula it comes nearly hori- Fig. 7. jipital a. . poglossal n. scendens loni n.. . i cervical n, perior thy- oid a. . . I cervical n. mnnnicans loni n.. . co-thyroid m. :ernal jugn- ar V. . . mmon caro id a. . . Digastricns. Jnnction of my- lo-hyoidei. N. accessorius. Oa-hyoides. Poimim Adami. Crico-thyroid membrane. Cricoid cartilage. lethmns of thy- roid gland. Trachea. Inferior thy- roid V. CENTRAL LIN-E OF THE NECK.—COURSE AND RELATIONS OP COMMON CAROTID A. zontally forwards across the lower part of the neck, and passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, over the sheath of the great vessels of the neck; then, changing its direction, it ascends nearly vertically close to the outer border of the ,sterno-h3K)id. Thus the muscleDEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES. 26 does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but forms an obtuse angle beneatli the sterno-rnastoid muscle. The inter- mediate tendon is situated at the angle, and is bound down to the first rib by a process of the deep cervical fascia. The object of this peculiar direction of the omo-hyoid appears to be to keep tense that part of the cervical fascia which covers the apex of the lung, and thus to resist atmospheric pressure. ^ ^. The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid of the'^de- muscles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and os-hyoides, F'essor g_ g_ sucking, or they depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of grave notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained by placing the finger upon it while we go through the gamut. These depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 7, p. 25) by the 'descendens noni' (a branch of the ninth, or hypo- glossal), and by the ' communicantes noni' (branches of the cervical plexus). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the superior thyroid artery. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on the hymd" thyroid cartilage, and runs up to be inserted into the body and half the great cornu of the os- hyoides. This muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery as they enter the larynx. The sterno-mastoid muscle must now be reflected from its origin to examine the course and relations of the common carotid artery. This done, notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the sterno-mastoid, and forms the under part of its sheath. It is at- tached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over and protects the great vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter from coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx.27 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY, Eemove this fascia, taking care not to cut away the descendens noni and commnnicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out any absorbent glands which lie about the sheath of the great vessels. The common carotid arises on the right side from the relations of arteria innominata behind the right sterno-clavicular ^0 common articulation; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. It ascends in front of the bodies of the cervical ver- tebrae, by the side of the trachea, thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotid. Thus a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw, will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of cervical fascia. In the same sheath are the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with, the artery: the nerve lies behind, and between the artery and the vein. Behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Lastly, along the vertebral column the sheath lies successively upon the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeply seated; it is covered by the superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep fascia, the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and about two inches above the clavicle it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more supevficial, and is covered by the platysma, cervical fascias, and only slightly overlapped by the sterno-mastoid. Lying im- mediately upon the sheath of the artery, we find the descendens noni joined by the communicantes noni nerves. The aheath is crossed by three veins; namely, the facial, the superior, and middle thyroid-veins, which empty themselves into the internal^ jugular. This is the general rule, and especial attention should be directed to it, because the veins are liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. It is plain that it is easier to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid than below it. We make an incision (three inches long)28 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. down the inner border of the sterno-mastoid; we cut through the platysma and cervical fascia, draw aside the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid, and expose the sheath of the vessel. We then make a small opening in the sheath large enough to admit the aneurismal needle, and tie the vessel, taking care not to include the pneumogastric or descendens noni nerves in the ligature. In what In the first part of its course the left carotid differs respects the from the right in the following particulars:— dlfferrfrom 1- It arises from the arch of the aorta, is therefore the right. longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum. 2. It is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus. 4. It is in close relation with the left recurrent nerve. 5. It is in close relation with the thoracic duct. The common carotid at its division is often a little of thT'^ bulbous. This dilatation is sometimes so marked, that common during life we have seen it mistaken for an incipient ^'"^^^ ' ■ aneurism. It is necessary to be aware that the carotid sometimes divides much lower than usual. Several times we have seen the division as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage. I ternal "^^^^ internal jugular vein returns the blood from the jugular brain. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the vein. Ygjj^ descends on the outer side of the carotid, but in the sheath with it, and joins the subclavian vein at nearly a right ano-le to form the brachio-cephalic. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, lingual, facial, superior and middle thyroid veins. Previous to its termination the internal jugular advances slightly to meet the subclavian vein, so that it lies on a plane a little ante- rior to the carotid. Besides which, the direction of the vein being perpendicular, and that of the artery oblique, there is necessarily a small interval between them at the lower part of the neck, more especially on the right side. In this interval we find the pneumo- gastric nerve, and, deeper, the vertebral artery. Here, too, on the left side, we look for the thoracic duct.THYKOID BODY. 29 The descendens noni (p. 25), a branch of the hypo- glossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath of the car- Descendens q^^^j supply the depressor muscles of the os-hyoides. Trace the nerve upwards, and see that it leaves the hypoglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital, or perhaps the mastoid artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath; but about the level of the os-hyoides it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. The descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni (derived from the second and third cervical nerves). These communicating branches descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form generally two loops in front of the carotid sheath. From these loops the nerves proceed to the anterior and posterior bellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. A small branch may sometimes be traced proceeding from the descen- dens noni into the chest to join the cardiac and phrenic nerves. In some subjects the descendens noni seems to be wanting; but look carefully, and you will probably discover it concealed within the carotid sheath : in such case the reinforcing loops from the cervical nerves will be found behind the internal jugular vein. Let us now examine the thyroid body, and, to expose it, let us reflect the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles from their insertions so that they can be replaced if necessary. Afterwards we will ex- amine the absorbent glands of the neck, and then survey the objects in the central line of the neck, from the jaw to the sternum. This very vascular gland-like substance lies over the body°'^ front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards on each side of the larynx. It con- sists of two lateral lobes, connected a little below the cricoid carti- lage by a transverse portion called the ' isthmus.' Each lobe is conical, about two inches in length, with the base opposite the sixth or seventh ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; its deep30 THYROID BODY; surface clasps the sides of the trachea and larynx, and usually ex- tends so far backwards as to be in contact with the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases partially, but sometimes completely, the common carotid artery, particularly on the right side; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus lies over the second and third rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies much in its dimensions. In some instances there is no transverse portion. This corresponds with the normal disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia; but in man, it is a failure in the union of the two halves by which the organ is originally developed.* Generally, the vertical measure- ment is about half an inch. Between its upper border and the cricoid cartilage is a space about four or five lines in extent, where the trachea is free; this space, therefore, is the more preferable situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length. We have seen it covering the trachea almost down to the sternum-f The thyroid body is closely connected, by fibrous tissue, to the sides of the trachea and cricoid cartilage. Hence it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. Taken as a whole, the thyroid varies in size in different indi- viduals and at different periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old * Concerning tlie development of the lateral halves and central portion of the thyroid body, see a paper by Callender in the Proceedings of the Eoj-al Society, 1867 t From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent border of eitlier lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thyroid body, caUed ' the pyramid,' fi-equently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the ' pomum Adami,' and is connected to the body of the os-hyoides by fibrous tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing from the os-hyoides to the pyramid. This constitutes the ' levator glandidse thyroideK ' (see preparation in Museum of St. Earth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14) of some anatomists. There are instances in which the pyramid is double; and, lastly, I have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thyroid membrane, completely isolated from the rest of the organ. These varieties deserve notice, because any one portion of this structure may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele.31 THYEOID BODY. age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter. But by far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid body are the number, the large size, and the free inoscula- tions of its blood-vessels. In fact, it appears to be composed of a tissue of arteries and veins. The superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the front surface of the apex of eacli lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under surface of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid, is observed in some subjects; it comes from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and middle thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The inferior thyroid veins, two in number, descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, and terminate in the left brachio-cephalic vein. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these infe- rior thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. They accompany the arteries. The thyroid body weighs from one to two ounces, and belongs Structure of ^'^ class of ductless glands, since no excretory duct the thyroid has been discovered. , It is invested by a thin covering gland. q£ condensed cellular tissue which penetrates into it, imperfectly dividing it into lobes and supporting the vessels as they enter it. It consists of a multitude of cells, which vary in size, and do not communicate with each other. Some of them may be recognised with the naked eye; but the greater number require the aid of the microscope. In hypertrophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horsebean, or even larger, These cells are lined by a limitary membrane and contain a glairy transparent fluid, in which are found a large number of nuclei and nucleated cells. The arteries ramify most minutely32 THYROID BdDf. ripon their walls. Of its functions nothing is with certainty- known. The presumption is, that it is concerned in the elabora- tion of the blood. An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a ' Bronchocele.' If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be pro- perly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ affected. If the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom; and an en- largement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. An instance is related by Allen Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion great difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the oesophagus. Small absorbent glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the crico-thyroid membrane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might be mistaken for a small bronchocele. In the areolar tissue which surrounds the great Sr^cal vessels of the neck, we "meet with a series of absorbent absorbent glands, called the deep cervical. They form an unin- glands. terrupted chain (whence their name glanchdce con- catenatce), from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery, others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to become imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posteriorCENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. 33 belly of the digastricus. The absorbents connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. On the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the left subclavian vein: on the right it always opens into the subclavian vein. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so sitiiated as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thus simulate an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between a real and an apparent pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sen- sible that the rising and falling do not depend upon any varia- tion of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if the tumour be lifted from the vessel, all feeling of pulsation ceases. Study well the parts in the central line of the neck fh^en-°^ '^5 P- 25). Beginning at the chin, we observe the ^Hhe^^ insertions of the digastric muscles. Below these is neck. the junction, or 'raphe,' of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os-hyoides. Below the os-hyoides comes the thyro-hyoid membrane, attached above to the upper border of the hyoid bone and below to the thyroid cartilage. Below this is the pomum Adami, or notch of the thyroid carti- lage. Below the thyroid cartilage is the cricoid. These two cartilages are connected by the crico-thyroid membrane. Below the cricoid c. is the trachea. This is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down it is covered by the inferior thyroid veins. Now the chief surgical interest lies just above and below the cricoid cartilage. We can feel this cartilage very plainly in the living subject at -any age, no matter how fat. In laryngotomy, the crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely. The mem- brane should be divided close to the edge of the cricoid c, for two reasons:—!. In order to be farther from the vocal cords. 2. To avoid the crico-thyroid artery which crosses the middle of the34 CENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. inembrane. If more room be required, the cricoid cartilage should be divided longitudinally. In tracheotomy, the trachea is opened by a perpendicular inci- sion, either above the isthmus of the thyroid body, or below it. The operation above the isthmus, if there be space enough for the introduction of the canula, is the easier and safer of the two; for here the tracliea is nearer to the surface, and no large blood- vessels are, generally speaking, in the way. The space available measures from a quarter to half an inch ; and the isthmus is not so firmly adherent to the trachea as to prevent its being drawn downwards for a short distance. However, it is right to state, that in one case out of every eight or ten, there is no available space. .• Tracheotomy below the isthmus is neither an easy nor a safe operation, for many reasons: 1. The trachea recedes from the surface as it descends, so that just above the sternum it is nearly an inch and a half from the skin. 2. The large inferior thyroid veins are in the way. 3. A middle thyroid artery may run up in front of the trachea, direct from the arteria innominata. 4. The arteria innominata itself lies sometimes upon the trachea higher than usual, and may, therefore, be in danger. 5. The left brachio- cephalic vein in some cases crosses the trachea above the edge of the sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeon Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence :— A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he was recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an opening into the trachea. In so doing they wounded the brachio-cephalic vein. Blood poured into the trachea, and the result was instantly fatal. Some surgeons advocate the practice of dividing the isthmus vertically, in' order to get at the trachea beneath it. Let such surgeons remember that an artery, which would bleed freely if divided, generally runs along the upper edge of the isthmus. The artery is a branch of the superior thyroid, and inosculates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side. Whoever pays attention to this subject in the dissecting-roomSUBMAXILLARY REGION; 35- will soon be convinced of the fact, that not only large veins but large arteries occasionally cross the crico-tbyroid membrane as well as the trachea. Every winter session convinces me more and more of the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly ex- posing the air tube, before we venture to open it. When the platysma and the cervical fascia have been S'thr'^°° removed from their attachment to the jaw, the most submaxil- conspicuous object is the submaxillary gland. Observe gion.^or '^■^'^ fascia forms for it a complete case. Beiieath the digas- the jaw WO find several absorbent glands, of which some trie tri~ 1 • angle. superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the absorbents of the face, the tonsils, and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the ' digastricus,' consisting of two distinct portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle, called the ' digastric,' of which we propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. T,. , . The digastricus consists of two muscular bellies Digastncus. . , , . united by an intermediate tendon. It arises from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone, and is inserted close to the symphysis of the lower jaw.. Eaise the submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastened by aponeurosis to the body and greater cornu of the os-hyoides. Observe also that this aponeurosis is connected in the mesial line with its fellow of the opposite side, so that a fibrous expansion occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the digastrici. The chief action of the digastricus is to depress the lower jaw. But if the lower jaw be fixed, then the muscle raises the os-hyoides, as in deglutition. The posterior belly of the digastricus is supplied by a nerve, from the facial; the anterior belly by a branch from the mylo- hyoidean nerve (which comes from the third division of the fifth pair).36 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The stylo-hyoideus arises from the styloicl process of Seus the temporal bone, and is inserted into the body of the ■ os-hyoides This muscle runs close along the posterior belly of the digastricus. Most frequently the digastric tendoix runs through the substance of it. Its nerve comes from the facial Fig. 8. Occipital a Hypoglossal n. Descendenfl noui Lingual a Internal jugular Superior thyroid Common carotid DIGASTRIC TRIAKCiLE AND CONTEKTS. Its action is to close to its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, raise and draw back the os-hyoides. , ^ The digastric triangle is bounded above by the body oT tne lower iawrparotid gland, and mastoid process of the temporal bone beI!udT/the posterior belly of the digastricus; and in front bySUBMAXILLARY REGION. 37 the anterior bellj. The objects we have to examine in this triangle are twelve in number, as follow:— 1. Submaxillary gland. 7. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 2. Facial vein, 8. Part of the parotid gland. 3. Facial artery. 9. Part of the external carotid artery. 4. Submental artery. 10. Mylo-hyoideiis muscle. 6. Mylo-hyoidefin nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve. 6. Submaxillary absorbent glands. 12. Part of the hyo-glossus muscle. Submaxillary Ordinary position of the bead, the sub- salivary maxillary gland is partially concealed by the jaw, gland. -^^^^ when the bead falls back the gland is more ex- posed. It is about the size of a chestnut, and is divided into several lobes. Its upper margin is covered by the body of the jaw; its lower margin overlaps tha side of the os-hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is flat, but the lobes on its deep surface are irregular, and often continuous with those of the sublingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the tendon of the digastricus, and a portion of the hypoglossal nerve, seen above the tendon. The facial artery lies in a groove on its upper border; and it is separated from the parotid gland, wbich is situated behind it, by the stylo-maxillary ligament. Mark these relations well, because they are of importance, as we shall presently explain, in tying the lingual artery. The duct of the gland (Wharton's duct *) passes from its under surface, runs forwards under the mylo-hyoideus and upon the hyo-glossus muscle; it then passes beneath the gustatory nerve, and subsequently runs between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo-glossus, to open into the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frsenum linguae. Its length is about two inches ; its dimen- sions are not equal throughout, for it is dilated about the middle, and contracted at the orifice. Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the * Thorn. Wharton, Adenographia, seu glandularum totius corporis descriptio. 12mo. Arastel., 1659.SXIBMAXILLARY HEGION. 38 iiarrow oriiice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighbouring muscles. An abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct is called a ' ranula.' It makes a tumour with semi-transparent walls, percep- tible beneath the tongue. In some cases, however, what appears to be a 'ranula' is in reality a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or an enlargement of one of the small bursse which are normally placed here.* The facial vein does not accompany the facial artery. Facial leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., then runs over the submaxillary gland, the digas- tricus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal juo-ular. This is the rule—but there are frequent exceptions. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw. ^ , , i The facial artery is the third branch of the external racial carotid. It runs tortuously under the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and underneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial gives off the four following \. The ascending or inferior palatine artery runs up between .the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pbaryngeus m. to the soft palate and tonsils, and inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. -a a 2 The tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m., then, perforating the superior constrictor, sup- .plies the tonsil and root of the tongue. 3. Glandular branches to the submaxillary gland. 4 The submental runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle, under the inferior maxilla, turns over the chin, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the inferior dental and inferior • * These sublingual bursu. ^.ere first described by Flcischmann, De novi.s sub- lingua bursis, Nuremberg, 1841.SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 39 labial. It supplies the mylo-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the sublingual absorbent glands. ^lylfy. Look for the mylo-hyoidean nerve near the sub- hyoidean mental artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental (before its entrance into the dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the jaw, advances between the bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastricus. The submaxillary absorbent glands receive the absorbent vessels of the face and the tongue. We often see them enlarged in cancer of the tongue and cancer of the lower lip. It is worth remem- bering that there are absorbent glands in the mesial line below the chin. The mylo-hyoideus arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge hjoideus. lower jaw, as far back as the last molar tooth, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and forwards, the posterior only are inserted into the body of the os-hyoides, the anterior being attached to a median tendinous line, termed a 'raphe.' Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. It is supplied with nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the dental, with blood by the submental a. The muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os-hyoides and the floor of the mouth—as in deglutition. Stylo- This is simply a deep layer of the cervical fasciaj maxillary extending from the angle of the iaw to the styloid nro- ligament. t, . , , , ^ « '• cess, it IS a broad sheet of fascia, and separates the submaxillary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with the fascia covering the pharynx; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumulations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the sur- face. : The remaining objects seen in the submaxillary triangle, namely, the parotid gland, the external carotid, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus muscle, will be described presently when they can be better seen. Your attention should now be directed40 SUHMAXILLAKY UEGION. to a piece of surgical anatomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this :— A horizontal incision being made along the body and greater cornu of the os-hyoides through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come at once upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift up the gland, which can be easily done, and underneath it you will observe that the tendon of the digastricus makes two sides of a triangle, of which the base is formed by the hypoglossal nerve crossing the hyo-glossus m. Within this little triangle, cut transversely through the fibres of the hyogiossus, and under them is the lingual artery. The first time you perform this operation on the dead subject, you will probably miss the artery and cut (through the middle constrictor) into the pharynx. The facial vessels must now be divided immediatel}'^ below the jaw. Reflect the anterior belly of the digastricus from its in- sertion ; detach the mylo-hyoideus from the middle line and the os-hyoides, and turn it over the bod}' of the jaw, taking care not to injure the muscle and structures beneath. The lower jaw must now be sawn through, a little to the dissector's side of the sym- physis, and the bone drawn upwards by hooks. The tongue should be drawn out of the mouth, and fastened by hooks. The os- hyoides should be drawn down by means of hooks, so as to put the parts on the stretch. All this done, we have to make out the following objects, represented in fig. 9, p. 41. 1. Genio-hyoideus. 6. Sublingual gland. 2. Hjo-glossus. 7. Hypoglossal nerre. 3. Stylo-glossus. 8. Gustatory nerve. 4. Genio-hyo-glossus. 9. Submaxillary ganglion. 6. Submaxillary duct. 10. Lingual artery. The genio-hyoideus arises from the inferior tubercle hyoideus behind the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the os-hyoides. This round muscle is situated in the n)esial line, parallel to its fellow. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is to draw the os-hyoides forwards and41 SCBMAXILLAKY REGION. upwards; and if the hyoid bone be fixed, it depresses the lower jaw. The hyo-glossus arises from the bod}'^, the greater Hyo-glossus. lesser cornua of the os-hyoides, and is inserted into the posterior two-thirds of the side of the tongue. It is a square and flat muscle, and its fibres ascend nearly perpendicularly from origin to insertion. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery Its action (with that of its fellow) Fig. 9. Cliorda tj'inpani n. Styloid process . . Glosao-pharyngeal n. hypoglossal n, occipital a. . Submaxillary gan- glion Duct of submaxillary gland Middle constrictor m. Lingual a Descendens noni n. , - Sublin- gual a. MTJSCLES, VESSELS, AND NEEVES OF THE TONGUE. is to depress the tongue. Observe the several objects which lie upon the hyo-glossus; namely, the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the duct of the submaxillary gland, and the sublingual gland. Beneath the hyo-glossus muscle lie the lingual artery, part of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, part of the genio-hyo-glossus, the lingualis muscle, and the glosso- pharyngeal nerve.SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 42 The genio-hyo-glossus ansea by a tendon from the Gcnio-hyo- ^ipper tiibercle behind the symphysis of the lower jaw, glossus. and is inserted into the os-hyoides and the tongue from the base to the apex. It is the largest and most important of the muscles of the tongue. It is fan-shaped, with the apex- attached to the symphysis: thence its fibres radiate into the entire length of the tongue. It derives its nerves from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is various. The posterior fibres, by raising the os-hyoides and drawing forwards the base of the tongue, protrude the tongue out of the mouth ; the anterior draw the tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus, a long and slender muscle, arises glossus from the apex of the styloid process and the stylo- maxillary ligament, and is inserted along the side of the tongue. It runs outside the hyo-glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue. -g-yp^ The hypoglossal, or ninth cerebral nerve, is the motor glossal nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises (by nerve. several roots) from the front of the medulla oblongata between the pyramid and the olive. After leaving the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, it lies beneath the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, where it is intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve; it then comes up between the artery and vein, and, immediately below the posterior belly of the digastricus, curves forwards round the occipital, over both carotid and facial arteries. It then crosses the hyo-glossus muscle, and passing beneath the mylo-hyoid, divides into branches which supply all the muscles of the tongue; nameh', the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossLis, liugualis, and the genio- hyoideus. As it curves round the occipital artery, the h3fpoglossal nerve sends the ' descendens noni' to the depressors of the os-hyoides (p. 25). It also sends a nerve to the thyro-hyoideusi which proceeds from it where it crosses over the external carotid.SUBMAXILLARY KEGION. 43 Near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, it communicates with the gustatory nerve. (Fig. 9.) The hypoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But after leavino- the skull, it receives communications from the first two cervical nerves. These communications are important physiologi- cally for two reasons :—1. They account for the hypoglossal nerve containing sensitive fibres. 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the ' descendens noni.' It is also connected with the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves at the base of the skull. Sublingual "^^^ sublingual gland lies immediately beneath the salivary mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Its shape gland. ^ oblong, with the long axis (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards. It rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contact with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus. The ducts of the sublingual gland (ducts of Rivinus*) vary in number from eight to twenty. They terminate by minute open- ings behind the orifice of the submaxillary duct, along a ridge upou the floor of the mouth. The ducts of some of the lobes ter- minate in the submaxillary duct. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be traced across the hyo-glossus, and under the gustatory nerve to the floor of the mouth. This aerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary or nTrve.*^"^^ third division of the fifth pair of cerebral nerves. It descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, comes forwards over the superior constrictor of the pharynx and along the upper part of the hyo-glossus, crossing at an acute angle over the duct of the submaxillaiy gland. Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve divides into fila- ments which supply the papillae on its anterior three-fourths. Submaxil- Look at the lower border of the gustatory nerve larygan- before it crosses the submaxillary duct: you will find a small ganglion, about the size of a pin's head. Like the other ganglia in connection with the branches of the fifth pair, * Aug. Quirin. Eivinus, de Dyspepsia. Lips. 1678.44 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. it receives nerve-filaments of three different kinds—viz. motor, sensitive, and sympathetic. Its motor root is the chorda tympani, which, apparently a branch of the gustatory, is derived from the facial nerve (a nerve of motion). Its sensitive roots proceed from the gustatory; and its connection with the sympathetic system of nerves is established by a branch which comes from the ' nervi molles ' round the facial artery. Thus provided with nerves, the ganglion supplies the submaxillary and sublingual glands and their ducts. The lingual artery is generally the second branch of Lingual ^j^g external carotid. Curving slightly upwards from its origin, the artery soon runs forwards beneath the hyo- glossus muscle, parallel to the os-hyoides. At the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the under sm-face of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of * ranine.' The curves made by the artery are for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Under the hyo-glossus, the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles; in the substance of the tongue, it lies between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis. Its branches are as follow: — 1. The hyoid, a small artery which runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles and anastomosing with its fellow. 2. The dorsales linguce, two or more, which run under the hyo -glossus to the back of the tongue. 3. The sublingual, arising near the anterior border of the hyo- glossus, supplies the sublingual gland, the mylo-hyoideus, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. This artery gene- rally gives off the little artery of the ' frsenum linguae,' which is sometimes wounded in cutting the fraenum in children who are tongue-tied; especially when we neglect the rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards, 4. The ranine is the termination of the lingual artery. As it runs forwards to the tip of the tongue along the outer side of the genio-hyo-glossus, it distributes branches to the tongue, and at the tip inosculates slightly with its fellow.EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 45 The lingual vein runs over the hyo-glossus, and terminates in the internal jugular. The best place for finding and tying the lingual arteiy has already been mentioned. The rule laid down is trustworthy only when the artery runs its normal course. I have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an attempt to tie the lingual artery, because the vessel arose from the facial behind the sub- maxillary gland, and then passed through the mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue. Study next the course and relations of the external carotid artery, and its branches in the neck. In preparing a view of them, observe that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. J The external carotid arises from the common carotid (Jourse and relations about the level of the upper border of the thyroid car- oftheex- tilage. It ascends beneath the hypoglossal nerve, the temal ca- ° j tr o j rotid ar- facial and lingual veins, the posterior belly of the t^ry- digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, enters the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and external jugnilar vein, and terminates near the neck of the jaw, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. Notice the relative position which the external and internal carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first on the same plane with, but nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. The external, however, soon changes its position, and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid ascends perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull. The external is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The external carotid gives off the following branches :— 1. The superior thyroid. 5. The posterior aiiriciilar. 2. The lingual. 6. The internal maxillary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal.BRAXCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 46 The superior thyroid, the first branch of the external fhyroX carotid, arises just below the great cornu of the os- artory. hyoides. It runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid bod}', in which it terminates. Its branches are the four following :— 1. The hyoid, a small muscular branch, runs horizontally in- wards below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides, and anastomoses "with its fellow. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the supe- rior laryngeal nerve, runs beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane (sometimes the thyroid cartilage), and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 3. The sterno-mastoid, a small branch variable as to origin, descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and communicates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side (fig. 7, p. 25), One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the membrane; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryngotomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of considerable size, taking an oblique or a perpendicular direction in front of the membrane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. I have seen several instances in which the mem- brane was crossed by the main trunk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in laryngotomy, not to make an opening into the larynx until we have fairly exposed the parts, and ascertained whether any large artery lies in the way. Among the many arterial inosculations about the thyroid body47 BRANCHES OF THE EXTER^TAL CAROTID. are two which deserve notice ; the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein crosses the sheath of the common carotid, and joins the internal jugular. The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as accompanying the superior laryngeal artery, comes from the inferior ganglion of the pneuraogastric. It descends by the side of the pharynx, behind both carotid arteries, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with its exquisite sensibility. Some of its branches may be traced upwards to supply the epiglottis and base of the tongue; others descend to the ' rima glottidis;' and a large branch passes down behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Before it enters the larynx, the nerve sends the ' external laryngeal ' branch to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches have been de- artery, scribed (p. 44). Facial The facial artery and its branches below the jaw have artery. ^^^^ described (p. 38). . The occipital artery, the fourth branch of the ex- arteiy.*^ ternal carotid, runs backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It then passes under all the muscles inserted into the mastoid process— namely, the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis, and the trachelo- mastoid. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery runs super- ficial to the complexus, and divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. Observe that in the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the spinal accessory nerve, and is itself crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. It sends off the three following branches:— 1. The sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius.BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 48 2. The posterior mejiinfjeal ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the cranium through the foramen jugulare to supply the dura mater. 3. The jprinceps cervicis, which we shall see better hereafter, runs down the Lack of the neck under the complexus, supplies this muscle and the semi-spinalis colli. The occipital vein usually terminates in the internal jugular, sometimes in the external. Posterior "^^^ posterior auricular artery, the fifth branch of ai^^icular the external carotid, arises above the digastric muscle, ^'^^'■y- and runs, under cover of the parotid gland, to the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. Above the mastoid process it divides into two branches, a posterior which inosculates with the occipital, and an anterior which com- municates with the temporal. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cartilage of the ear. Its only named branch is the stylo- mastoid, a very constant little artery, which runs through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the tympanum of the ear. The posterior auricular nerve lies close to the corre- TuJcular spending artery. It is the first branch of the facial after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs behind the ear and divides into an auricular branch which supplies the retrahens and attollens aurem, and an occipital branch distri- buted to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. This artery arises near the division of the common pha^Sgefl carotid. It ascends between the internal carotid and artery. ^j^^ g-^jg pharynx to the base of the skull, lying ui)on the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives off some pharyn- geal branches which supply the constrictor muscles. It then enters the pharynx above the free border of the superior con- strictor, and terminates on the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsils. It gives off a meningeal branch, which passes through the foramen lacerum medmm to the dura mater in the middle fossa. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid-namely, the internal maxillary and temporal, must be49 CERVICAL PLEXUS. for the present postponed. Meantime, let us make out the deep cervical plexus and its branches. Cervical "^^^^ plexus is formed by the anterior branches of plexus of the four upper cervical nerves. It consists of a series nerves. loop-like communications, which take place between these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrse. The plexus is situated behind the sterno- mastoid and internal jugular vein, and lies in front of the scalenus medius and the levator anguli scapulae. The plexus gives off swperficial and deey branches. The super- ficial branches have been already described (p. 16). The deep branches may be divided into an internal and an external series. Internal Series.—1. The pJirenic arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, and passes through the thorax to be distributed to the diaphragm. 2. The communicantes noni come from the second and third cervical nerves, wind round the internal jugular vein, and join the descendens noni in front of the carotid sheath, supplying the de- pressor muscles of the os-hyoides and larynx. 3. Muscular branches to the recti antici and lateralis and longus colli muscles. 4. Branches which communicate with the pneumogastric, hypo- glossal, and sympathetic nerves, and one to join the fifth cervical. External Series.—1. One or more branches to the nervus accessorius. 2. Muscular branches to supply the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, scalenus medius, and sterno-mastoid. The clavicle should now be sawn through the middle, and the sterna] half raised with the sterno-mastoid attached, so that the bone can be replaced, to study its relation to the subjacent parts. The scalene muscles and the subclavian artery throughout its whole course must next be carefully dissected. The scalene muscles, so called from their resemblance to a scalene triangle, extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They may be con- ic60 SCALENE MUSCLES. sidered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anatomists describe them as three separate muscles—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles are one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior tubercles anticus. of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the tubercle on the inner border of the first rib. Scalenus The scalenus medius arises from the posterior medius. tubercles of the transverse processes of the six lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the first rib behind the scalenus anticus. Scalenus The scalenus posticus arises from the posterior posticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the second rib between its tubercle and angle. The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting. They can bend the cervical portion of^ the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is just one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and aU that lies behind it. In front of it are, the phrenic nerve, the subclavian vein, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Behind it are the subclavian artery and the five nerves which form the brachial plexus. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the best guide to the subclavian artery, for it guides you to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you must look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, itSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 51 may be said, that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno- mastoid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it will greatly facilitate the operation, if the clavicular origin of the muscle be partially divided. Phrenic The phrenic nerve runs down in front of the scalenus nerve. anticus, from the outer to the inner border. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, crosses in front of the internal mammary artery, and con- tinues its course between the pericardium and pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which it supplies. When the spinal cord is injured above the fourth cervical ver- tebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated; therefore the dia- phragm, as well a,s the other muscles of inspiration, are paralysed. Death is the immediate result.* CODESE AND RELATIONS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ABTEBIES. The left subclavian artery differs from the right, not only in its origin, but in the relations of the first part of its course. The right should, therefore, be examined first, ,and then the differences between it and left. The right subclavian artery is one of the two great branches Eight sub- ^^^^ which the arteria innominata divides behind the clavianar- sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards behind the scalenus anticus, then inclines downwards over the * The phrenic nerve is frequently joined by a filament from that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to be aware that cases sometimes occur in which this seemingly insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. I have met with many instances in which this accessory branch was larger than the regular trunk; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, and would probably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel. That such an accident has actually happened is recorded by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. He speaks of having injured this accessory branch of the phrenic in tying the subclavian artery. The patient had incessant spasm of the diaphragm till he died.52 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. first rib, at the lower border of which it takes the name of 'axil- lary.' The artery describes a curve, of which the greatest con- vexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Generally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, the course of the sub- clavian is divided into three parts :—1. The part which intervenes between its origin and the inner border of the scalenus anticus. 2. That which lies behind the scalenus. 3. That which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus and the lower border of the first rib. The fii-st portion of the artery lies deeply in the neck and passes upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is covered by the skin, platysma, superficial and deep fasciae, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a layer of deep fascia, continued from the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, by the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and by some cardiac filaments of the sympathetic. Behind the artery are the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric, the sympathetic nerve, the apex of the lung and the pleura. Three branches arise from this portion of the subclavian—viz., the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis. In the second part of its course, the artery Ues between the scalene muscles. It is covered by skin, platysma, and superficial fascia, by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the deep cervical fascia, and by the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve which separate it from the subclavian vein. Behind the artery is the scalenus medius; above it, is the brachial plexus. Only one branch, the superior intercostal, is given off from this part of the artery. In the third part of its course, the artery passes downwards and outwards, and lies upon the surface of the first rib. Here it is covered by the skin, platysma, and two layers of the cervical fascia; subsequently by the supra-scapular artery, the clavicle,the53 SUBCLAA^AN ARTERY. subclavius muscle, with its nerve; and, what is of much more con- sequence, it is here crossed by the external j ugular and (often) the supra and posterior scapular veins; so that we have here a con- Fig. 10. 3rd cervical ri. ' 4th cervioal n. : Piiemnogas- tric n. . . ' 6th cervical h I Brachial plexus F Phrenic n. . I Line of reflec- tion of peri- cardium. Cervicalis ascendens a. Scalenus anticus. Inferior thyroid a. Snperficialis colli a. Phrenic n. Posterior scapular a. Supra scapular a. SubclaTian a. Superior intercostal a. Internal mammary a. Pneumogastric n. Phrenic n. Appendix of left auricle. fluence of large veins in front of the artery. The subclavian vein is situated below the artery, but on a plane anterior to it. Above the artery and to its outer side, are the trunk nerves of the brachial plexus. One of these nerves (the conjoined fifth andSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 54 sixth cervical) runs so nearly parallel with the artery, and on a plane anterioi' to it, that it is quite possible to mistake the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. I have heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen this mistake committed three times during life. Behind the artery is the scalenus medius, and below it the first rib. In this part of its course, the artery as a rule gives off no branches; the most frequent exceptions are the posterior scapular, and supra-sca- pular. The left subclavian is the last of the three great branches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It ascends nearly Left subcla- yerticallv out of the chest, and then arches in front of vian artery. ~ , i i i • the apex of the lung and pleura to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course, the left subclavian lies deeply in the chest, near the spine. On its left side it is covered by the pleura; on its right side are the thoracic duct, the oesophagus and the trachea: the pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and the left carotid artery run nearly parallel with it: the left brachio-cephalic vein crosses in front of it. Behind it, is the longus colli muscle and the inferior cervical ganglion. Arrived at the level of the upper part of the chest, the left subclavian arches, like the right, over the apex of the lung, and has similar relations—namely, in front, it is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and by the internal jugular and vertebral veins: behind it, are the apex of the lung and the pleura. Behind the scalenus anticus, and on the surface of the first rib, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (p. 52). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata.SUBCLAVIAN ARTEUY. 2. The left, subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at a nearly right angle. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left sub- clavian. It ascends from the chest to the left of the oesophagus and behind the artery; then arches behind the internal jugular vein, and terminates in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation; it is most readily found by raising the sub- clavian vein close to its junction with the jugular, and searching with the handle of the scalpel on the inner side of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before tracing the branches of the subclavian artery, consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, is an operation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connection with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and above all its close contiguity with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so formidable that one cannot be surprised the operation has never been performed with a favourable result. In the second part of its course, namely, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more accessible. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, to reach the vessel; the phrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was performed first and with success bySUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 5G Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has beeu performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.* But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we then make our way down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. Eemember the tubercle on the inner edge of the rib which indicates the insertion of the scalenus: this tubercle is the best guide to the artery. It will be necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the needle can be introduced around it. Mr. Eamsden of St. Bartholomew's Hospital was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year 1809 ; since that time the operation hr.s been repeatedly performed, with most favourable results. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable; but circumstances are often very unfavourable. It often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult- Under such circumstances one cannot be surprised that even dis- tinguished anatomists have committed mistakes. Sir Astley Cooperf failed in one instance. Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the needle, and included one of the nerves in the ligature : fatal haimorrhage was the result.^ I was present at an » Med. Chinirg. Trans., vol. xxix. p. 25. t London Medical Review, vol. ii. p. 300. + Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvi. 1820.57 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. operation ia which the large nerve (a branch of the brachial plexus) which runs parallel with and on a plain anterior to the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsa- tion communicated to the nerv^e. -r, , „ The branches of the subclavian extend so far, that in Branches of i i i- i the subcla- the present dissection we ca.n trace them only lor a short vian artery, (jjgtance. They are four in number :— 1. The vertebral. 2. The thyroid axis, which gives off the inferior thyroid, supra- scapular, posterior-scapular, and cervicalis ascendens. 3. The internal mammary. 4. The superior intercostal, which gives off the deep cer- vical. As a rule, three branches are given off from the subclavian in the first part of its course—the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis—and one from the second part, the superior inter- costal. The most frequent deviation is, that the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) arises from the subclavian in the third part of its course.* This, the first and largest branch, arises from the Vertebral nnper part of the subclavian. For a short distance it artery. '^^ i i • lies in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli. Here it enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the succeeding vertebrae. In the interval between the axis and the atlas, the artery makes a sigmoid curve, that it may not be stretched in the rotation of the head. Having traversed the foramen of the atlas, the artery curves backwards along the groove in its arch, perforates the posterior occipito-allantoid ligament and the dura mater, then enters the skull throuo-h the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow" * With reference to the origin of the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, I made special observations during the winter session of 1858-59. I found that this artery was given off most frequently, not by the thyroid axis, but by the subclavian in the third part of its course. Under these circumstances the superficialis colli a. gonerally came from the thyroid axis.BRANCHES OF TflE SUBCLAVIAN. 58 near the lower border of the ' pons Varolii,' to form the basilar artery. The vertebral artery is accompanied by slender nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These nerves com- municate with the spinal nerves forming the brachial plexus. Destined for the brain, the vertebral gives off no branches in the neck, except a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, to the spinal cord and its membranes small arteries which pass through the intervertebral foramina. The vertebral vein is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and joins the brachio-cephalic vein. It receives the veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through the posterior condyloid foramen. The cervical nerves pass through the intervertebral foramina behind the vertebral artery, so that the artery runs behind its vein, and in front of the nerves. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian near the Thyroid inner edsre of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of axis. ° a quarter of an inch divides into four branches, which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the posterior scapular, the supra-scapular, and the ascending cervical. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep surface of the thyroid body, in which it communicates freely with the superior thyroid and with its fellow. It gives small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx. The ascending cervical artery usually arises from the inferior thyroid. It ascends close to the spine, between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates in small branches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the intervertebral foramina, and supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri) runs outwardsBRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 59 over the scalenus anticus, then directly beneath and parallel with the clavicle; crossing over the third part of the subclavian artery to the superior border of the scapula, it passes above the trans- verse lieament which bridges over the notch, and divides into branches, some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. It inosculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the ' dorsalis scapulte,' a branch of the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery. Near the notch, it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, which runs through it. The 'posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, of which the normal origin is said to be from the thyroid axis, very frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It is larger than the preceding artery, and runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra-scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to reach the posterior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, in which it is lost. In the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the ' superficialis colli.' This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, which, with the levator anguli scapulae, it principally supplies. The superficialis colli often comes direct from the thyroid axis, when the posterior scapular arises from the last part of the siib- clavian. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The middle thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. This artery arises from the subclavian opposite to the thyroid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian vein, Internal descends behind the cartilao-es of the ribs, about mammary. ° half an inch from the sternum. Its farther progress will be examined in the dissection of the chest. The correspond- ing vein most frequently terminates in the brachio-cephalic.BRANCIIKS OF THE SUBCLAVIA^^. 60 Deep cervical. This artery is given off by the siibclaviaa behind the fntercostal. scalenus anticus, so that you must divide the muscle to see it. It descends into the chest behind the pleura, passing over the necks of the first and second ribs, and furnishes the arteries of the two iipper intercostal spaces. It usually inoscu- lates with the first inter- costal branch of the aorta. The corresponding vein terminates on the right side in the vena azygos; on the left in the brachio- cephalic. This artery arises from the superior inter- costal, seldom dii'ect from the subclavian. It goes to the back of the neck between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and ascends between the complexus and the semi- spinalis colli, both of which it supplies. It sometimes inosculates with the ' prin- ceps cervicis,' a branch of the occipital a. To test your knowledge of the branches of the sub- clavian artery, reflect upon the answer to the follow- ing question :—If the ar- tery were tied in the first part of its course before it gives off any branches, how would the arm be supplied with blood? The answer is, by five collateral channels, as follow:—1. By the com- DIAGRAM TO SHOW THE INOSCUXATIOXS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTEUY.61 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NKKV^ES: mimications between the superior and inferior thyroid : 2. By the communication between the two vertebral: 3. By the communi- cations between the internal mammary and the intercostals and the epigastric: 4. By the communications between the thoracic branches of the axillary, and the intercostal branches of the aorta: 5. By the communications between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostal. These inosculations are shown in the diagram, p. 60. Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications :—1. Between the supra-scapular and dorsalis scapulae (branch of sub- scapular): 2. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular: 3. Between the long and short thoracic on the one hand, and the internal mammary and aortic intercostals on the other. The subclavian vein does not form an arch like the Subclavian . . , vein. artery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus, the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a valve just before its junction with the internal jugular. It receives the anterior jugular, external jugular, and through it the supra- scapular and posterior-scapular veins. Brachial '^^^ large nerves forming the plexus which supplies plexus the upper' extremity are the anterior divisions of the of nerves. £q^j, Iq-^qj. cervical and the first dorsal. Emerging from the intervertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axilla. To this bundle of nerves the name 'plexus ' is given, on account of their mutual communications. The plexus at its root is wide, and situated higher than the subclavian artery, and nearly on the same plane ; but as the plexus descends beneath the clavicle its component nerves converge, and in the axilla, com- pletely surround the artery. The plexus is crossed superficially by the omo-hyoid muscle, and by the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries.62 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is usually thus :—The fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord; the eighth cervical and the first dorsal form another cord ; Fig. 12. DIAGKAM OF THE BEACHIAL PLKXUS OF NEETES, AND THEIR RELATION TO THE AXIXLAEY ARTERY. 1. Ulnar. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Lesser int. cutaneous ^n. of Wiisberg). 4. Musculo-spii'al. 5. N. to latissimus dorsi. 6. N. to teres major. 7. N. to subscapularis. 8-9. Anterior thoracic n. to pectoral muscles. 10. N. to serratus magnus. 11. Median. 12. Circumflex. 13. External cutaneous. 14. Supra-scapular. 15. Posterior scapular. the seventh cervical runs for a short distance alone, and then splits into two branches, one of which joins the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical, the other, that formed by the eighth cervicalBRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 63 and first dorsal. The branch joining the trunk formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal usually receives a large reinforce- ment from the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical. Thus two great trunks are formed, which lie for some distance above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery. Beneath the clavicle, a third cord is formed by the junction of a fasciculus from each of the two primary trunks, so that in the axilla there are three large cords, one external to the axillary artery, one internal to it, the third behind it.* The plexus gives off above the clavicle the following nerves:— a. A branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic arises from the fifth cervical. h. Nerve to the suhclavius m.—This proceeds from the fifth and sixth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third part of its course. It frequently sends a filament, which passes in front of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic nerve. G. Nerves to the scalene and the longus colli muscles are given off from the lower cervical nerves as they leave the intervertebral foramina. d. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles.—This arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and accompanies the posterior scapular artery, beneath the levator anguli scapulae, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. e. The siipra-scapular nerve arises from the cord formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical n., runs to the upper border of the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and then passing through the notch in the scapula, terminates in the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus m. /. The nei^ve (called external respiratory by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus magnus arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, appears between the middle and posterior scalene muscles, then descends behind the plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is exclusively distributed. seems, from a number of dissections, to be the most frequent arrangement of the nerves forming the brachial plexus. This arrangement is, however, very variable, often differing on the two sides in the same subject.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 64 It only remains to be observed that the upper cord of the brachial plexus receives a branch from the lower cord of the cer- vical, and that each of its component nerves communicate by slender filaments with the sympathetic system. Below the clavicle the plexus divides into branches for the supply of the arm; namely, the anterior thoracic nerves (two in number, to the pectoralis major and minor), the subscapular (three in number, to the subscapularis, the latissimus dorsi, and teres major), the circumflex (to the deltoid and teres minor), the median, the musculo-spiral, the ulnar, the external cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg). DISSECTION OF THE EACE. Much practice is required to make a good dissection of the face. The muscles of expression are numerous and complicated; they are interwoven with the subcutaneous tissue and closely united to the skin : their fibres are often pale and indistinct. The face is amply supplied with motor and sensitive nerves, of which the ramifications extend far and wide. Therefore you must not be discouraged, if in a first attempt you fail to make a satisfactory display of the parts. The cheeks and nostrils should be distended with horsehair, and the lips sewn together. Make an incision down the mesial line of the face; another from the chin along the base of the lower jaw to the angle, then prolong it in front of the ear to the zygoma. Eeflect the skin from below upwards. Each muscle as it is cleaned must be put on the stretch by hooks. The nerve which supplies all the muscles of the face is the ' portio dura,' or facial division of the seventh cerebral nerve. It emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and divides into branches, which pass through the parotid gland, forming a plexus termed the ' pes anserinus.' The sensitive nerves of the face are supplied by the threeMUSCLES OF THE PACE. 65 divisions of the fifth cerebral nerve; namely, the yupra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the mental. No other nerve takes any share in conferring sensation upon the face except the auricnlo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus (p. 16), which supplies the skin covering the parotid gland and part of the cheek. The skin covering the cartilages of the nose is supplied by a small nerve called the naso-lohular. It is the terminal branch of the nasal division of the ophthalmic nerve. It appears between the bone and the cartilage, lying under the compressor naris m. Mnsculus "^^^^ muscle arises from the fascia over the masseter risorius m., and passes forwards to be inserted into the angle of (Santonm). ^j^^ mouth, where it intermingles with the orbicularis oris and other muscles in this situation. It produces the smile, not of good humour, but of derision. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three heads ; appertaining respectively to the mouth, the nose, the eye- brows and lids. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus : there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surround- ing bones. They are named elevators, depressors, &c., according to their respective action. . This muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, surrounds Orbicularis ,i .1 t, • •. , . , oris. *^be mouth. Its size and thickness in different indi- viduals, produce the variety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series (excepting a thin fasciculus which is said to pass around the free margin of the lips), but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and inter- mingle with the fibres of the buccinator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the sur- rounding skin; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The 'orbicularis' is the antagonist of all the muscles whichMUSCLES OF THE FACE. 66 move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the play of the mouth.* This miiscle aWses from the oblique line of the lower Depressor • ^^j^^^ ^j^^ foramen mentale, and is inserted into angiili oris. J . . i- -ii the angle of the mouth, mterminglmg with the zygo- matic muscles. It is an important muscle in the expression of sorrowful emotions. We see its action when children cry. This muscle arises from the oblique line of the Depressor labii , iaw, and is inserted into the lower lip. It mferions, or iu<vcj. j .1 v quadratus covers the vessels and nerves which come through the foramen mentale. It must therefore be divided in cutting through the nerve in cases of neuralgia. This muscle arises from the lower jaw below the mentf"" incisor teeth, and is inserted into the skin of the chin. ™^ To see it properly, evert the lower lip and remove the mucous membrane on either side of the frsenum. There are two of them, one for each side. Their action is well shown when we shave. The Z. major arises from the outer surface of the fus^Z^r malar bone, passes obliquely downwards and is inserted and minor. .^^^ ^^^^^ tj^^ mouth, joining the depressor anguli oris. The Z. minor arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, in front of the preceding, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, joining the levator labii superioris. The action of the zygomatici is seen in laughing. Before examining the orbicularis palpebrarum, notice the tendo oculi. To make the tendon more apparent the tarsal cartilages should be drawn outwards. _ This tendon is about two linesf in length, and is Tendo ocnli. ^.g^dily felt at the inner angle of the eye by drawing * In strong muscular lips tlie upper part of the orbicularis sends a small sub- cutaneous slip of muscle from eacb side along the septum nasi nearly to the apex. The interval between the two slips corresponds to the furrow which leads from the nose to the lip. This is the ' naso-labialis' or'depressor septi narium ot HaUer and Albinus. t A line is the twelfth part of an inch.MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 67 the eyelids outwards. It is fixed to the nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary bone, in front of the lachrymal groove, passes out- wards, and divides into two portions, one of which is attached to the upper, the other to the lower tarsal cartilage. The tendon crosses the lachrymal sac a little above the centre, and furnishes a tendinous expansion which covers the sac and is attached to the margin of the bony gi-oove. To see this expansion we must reflect that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which covers the sac. In puncturing the lachrymal sac the knife is introduced below the tendon, in a direction downwards, outwards, and a little back- wards. We have to divide the skin, a few fibres of the orbicularis, and the fibrous expansion from the tendo oculi. The angular artery and vein are situated on the inner side of the incision. This muscle arises from the tendo oculi, from the oCTli™^^"^ nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and from the internal angular process of the frontal; it is in- serted into the skin of the brow, temple, and cheek. This broad sphincter muscle surrounds the margin of the orbit and eyelids, and its fibres are divided into two portions, an external or orbital and an inner or palpebral. Its orbital fibres take a wide sweep, passing uninterruptedly around the orbit, and mingle on the forehead with the occipito-frontalis; on the cheek with the zygomaticus minor, and the levator labii superioris. The fibres which belong to the eyelids (orbicularis palpebrarum) are thin and pale. They arise from the tendo oculi, and form, over each eyelid, a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids, and are attached to the external tarsal ligament and malar bone. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that some fibres proceed close to the lashes. This was first pointed out by Riolanus,* and described as the ' musculus ciliaris.' f * Anthropologia, lib. v. cap. 10. t Strictly speaking the ciliary muscle arises from the two little divisions of the tendo oculi, and is inserted, at the external canthus, into the fibrous tissue which unites the two tarsal cartilages.STRUCTIIRK OF THE EYELIDS. 68 No fat is ever found on the eyelids ; nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but loose areolar tissue, that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. The orbicular muscle not only shuts the eye but protects it. When the eye is threatened by a blow, the muscle suddenly con- tracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and contracts the skin of the brow and cheek so as to form a soft cushion in front of the orbit. The cushion itself may be severely bruised, as is seen in a ' black eye'; but the globe itself is rarely injured. When the eye is closed, as in winking, the palpebral portion of the muscle contracts. Observe this movement attentively, and see that the lids are drawn slightly inwards as well as closed. The object of this inward motion is to direct the tears towards the inner angle of the eyelids, where they are absorbed by the puncta lachry- malia. Since the orbicular muscle is supplied by the facial nerve, it is affected in facial palsy, and the patient cannot shut the eye. This arises from the superciliary ridge of the frontal JL°''erdlU°'' 'boiie, passes outwards, and is inserted into the under superci u. ^^^^^^^^ orbicularis oculi. It lies concealed be- neath the orbicularis, and is the proper muscle of frowning. This is situated on the bridge of the nose, on each Pyramicklis ^-^^ mesial line, and is regarded as a prolonga- "^"* tion of the occipito-frontalis. It mingles with the fibres of the compressor nasi, and its action is to elevate the skin of the nose, as in the expression of surprise. The present being a good opportunity to examine the structure of the eyelids, postpone for the present the dissection of the re- maining muscles of the face. Sthuctuke of the Eyelid?.—The eyelids are composed of dif- ferent tissues arranged in successive strata one beneath the other. There are—1, the skin; 2, the orbicularis palpebrai'um3, the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrse (in the upper lid only); 4, the tarsal cartilage and the palpebral ligament which extends from the margin of the orbit to the inner free margins of these cartilages ; 5, Meibomian glands; 6, mucous membrane. TheseSTRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS." 69 structures are separated by areolar tissue, which for good reasons never contains fat. The sJcin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate. It is abundantly supplied with sensitive nerves by branches of the fifth pair—namely, by the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra- trochlear, lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. The orbicularis palpeho^arumhas been already described (p. 67). It is supplied with nerves by the facial. The levator palpebrce arises from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the upper surface of the superior tarsal cartilage. Tarsal car- These are plates of fibro-cartilage which support and tilagesand give figure to the eyelids. There is one for each lid, igaments. ^^^^ connected at the angles (commissures or canthi) of the lids through the medium of fibrous tissue. One can best examine them by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The upper is the larger, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and maintained in position by the tendo oculi, and by what are called the broad tarsal or palpebral ligaments: these ligaments are continuations from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilages. There are two of them, termed upper and lower, and proceeding to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms in the areolar tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. Each tarsal cartilage is moreover attached to the malar bone, by means of a ligament, called the external tarsal ligament The ciliary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or beveled off; and that, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular channel. This channel is said to conduct the tears to the puncta lacrymalia. According to our observation, this channel does not exist: for when the lids°a.re70 STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. Tig. 13. closed, their margins are in such accurate apposition, that not the slightest interstice can be discovered between them. The punda lacrymalia are two pin-holes apertures, easily dis- covered on the margin of the lids, close to the inner angle. They are the orifices of the canals, called canalicuH, which pass inwards, and convey the tears into the lachrymal sac. Observe that their orifices are directed backwards. In facial palsy, the tensor tarsi being affected, the puncta lose their proper direction, and the tears flow over the cheek. In the introduction of probes for the purpose of opening the contracted puncta, or of slitting up the lachrymal duct, it is necessary to know the exact direction of these tubes. {See diagram.) By passing a bristle into one of them, we find that it does not run straight from the punctum to the sac, but that it proceeds for a short distance perpendicularly, and then, dilating into a small pouch, makes a sharp bend inwards to the la- chrymal sac. In the majority of cases, the tubes open into the sac by a common orifice. When, from any cause, the tears are secreted in greater quantity than usual, they overflow and trickle down thecheek. The eyelashes (cilia) are planted in two or more rows along the edge of the tarsal cartilages. The eyelashes of the upper lid are longer and more numerous than in the lower; and their convexity is directed downwards, while those of the lower lid have an opposite curve. The bulbs of the lashes are situated between the tarsal cartilage and the fibres of the ciliary muscle. They are supplied with blood by the palpebral branches of the ophthalmic, which run parallel and close to the free borders of the lids under the ciliary muscle. These sebaceous glands, so called after the anatomist* who first « H. Meibom, De vasis palpelDrariiin novis. Helmstedt, 1666.71 STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. described them, are situated on the under surface of ^ands"^'^" each of the tarsal cartilages. In the upper lid there are about thirty; not so many in the lower. On everting the lid, they are seen running in longitudinal rows in grooves of the cartilage. Under the microscope, one sees that they consist of a central tube, round the sides of which are a number of openings leading to short csecal dilatations. The orifices of these glands are situated on the free margin of the lid behind the lashes. Their use is to secrete an unctuous substance, which prevents the lids from sticking together. This name is given to a small reddish body situated Caruneula i. • r j.t. tj. • j r lacrymalis inner corner of the eye. It is composed of an aggregation of sebaceous glands covered by mucous membrane. In some instances minute hairs grow upon it. Its use is, probably, to support the inner junction of the eyelids. When the caruncle is diminished in size by disease, the puncta lacrymalia become displaced, and the tears run down the cheek. External to the caruneula lacrymalis is a slight vertical fold of conjunctiva, 'plica semilunaris,^ which is by some considered to be a rudimentary membrana nictitans (third eyelid found in birds). The conjunctival coat of the eyelid will be described with the anatomy of the eye. Observe at present, that it is more vascular than the conjunctival coat of the eye, and that it presents a number of minute papillae, which, when enlarged and aggre- gated by inflammation, give rise to the disease called * granular lids.' Such, in outline, is the structure of the eyelids. Their use is best described by Socrates, who, in answer to the question whether animals were made by chance or design, replies:—'Think you not that it looks like the work of prescience, because the sight is delicate, to have guarded it with eyelids, which open wheii we want to see, but shut when we go to sleep; to have fenced these lids with eyelashes, which, like a sieve, strain the dusty wind, and hinder it from hurting the eyes; and over the eyes to have placed72 iM use Lies OF TIIK FACR. eyebrows, as eaves, to carry off the sweat of the brow from dis- turbincr the sio-ht ? ' * The dissection of the muscles of the face must now be continued. In order to see the origin of the elevators of the upper lip and no§e, the lower circumference of the orbicularis oculi must be raised. , ,.. This arises from the superior maxillary bone near Levator labu ^ .. . , . superioris its Orbital margin, and passing downwards divides into alaeque nasi. ^^.^ portions, an inner inserted into tbe side of the nose, an outer into the upper lip. It acts chiefly in expressing the smile of derision, and the scornful affections of the mind. Its habitual use occasions corresponding permanent folds in the skin, which are, to a certain extent, indicative of the feelings and passions. This arises from the lower margin of the orbit above superioHs^ the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the upper lip. It is nearly an inch in breadth at its origin, and it covers the infra-orbital vessels and nerves. This muscle, which is covered by the levator labii Levator sunerioris, arises from the canine fossa of the superior anguu oris. ^ i • • j j maxilla, below the infra-orbital foramen, and \?,%nsertea into the angle of the mouth, superficial to the buccinator, its fibres blending with those of the orbicularis oris, zygomatici, and de- pressor anguli oris. Two muscles belonging to the nose must now be examined— the triangularis or compressor nasi, and the depressor labii supe- rioris This muscle is triangular, and arises by its apex from Compressor superior maxillary bone, internal to the canine fossa, and is attached by a broad thin aponeurosis which spreads over the dorsum of the nose and joins its fellow. The * Xcnophon's Memorabilia, b. I.e. iv.: Ou 5ok€( aoi koI riJSe irpovoi'ai ?p7v iotKtvai, rh, ivel a.aOei'hs fJ-iv iartv tJ oij/iy, pK«pipoii avrw eupSicrai, &, irav fiev avrrj XfVffOai ti Sep, ivanerdvuvrai, eV Si tS {jKvip ffvyKKiUrat ; ws 8' av nv^e Si e/joi P\dTrT<c(ni', Ttdfioy P\e(papiSas efKpvffar ixppiai re inroydawaai to. virtp tZv ofifidTuv i>! >t7)5' & ttjs Ke<pa\ris j5pii)S Kaiioupyf-73 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. origin of this muscle is concealed by the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. This arises from the superior maxilla, above the' Depressor second incisor tooth, and is inserted into the septum rioris or de- and ala of the nose. It is situated between the mucous pressor aire n^embrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip. To expose it, the upper lip must be everted and the mucous membrane removed. Besides the muscles above described, we find, in connection with the cartilages of the ala of the nose, pale muscular fibres, in which no definite arrangement can be traced. They constitute the ' dilatator narium anterior^ and the 'dilatator narium posterior' of some anatomists. By acting upon the cartilages of the nose, these little muscles contribute in some degree to express the con- dition of the mind. Some of them dilate the nostrils; for instance, in dyspnoea: others contract them, as in smelling. _ . , The buccinator arises from the alveolar borders of xSuccmator. the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the molar teeth, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The fibres pass forwards and are inserted into the angle of the mouth and the muscular structure of the lips; the central fibres decussate, i.e. the lower fibres pass upwards along the upper lip, and the upper fibres pass downwards along the lower lip. The buccinator is the great muscle of the cheek. It forms with the superior constrictor of the pharynx, a continuous muscular wall for the side of the mouth and pharynx. The bond of connec- tion between the buccinator and the superior constrictor, is the ' so-called' pterygo-maxillary ligament. Now this ligament (see diagram) extends from the hamular process vertically to the pos- terior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw near the last molar. To call it a ligament seems a misnomer: it is simply a fibrous intersection between the two muscles. The duct of the parotid gland passes obliquely through the buccinator into the mouth, opposite the second molar of the upper jaw. The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between theMUSCLES or THE FACE. 74 teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of expelling air from the mouth, as in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. It is Fig. 14. MUSCLES OF THE PHAETNX, supplied by the facial nerve, and is, therefore, affected in facial paralysis. The buccinator muscle is covered by a layer of fibrous Buccal tissue, which adheres closely to its surface, and is at- tached to the alveolar border of the upper and lowerARTERIES OF THE PACE. 75 jaw. This structure is thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but more dense behind, where it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. It is called the ' bucco-pharyngeal' fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the resistance of this fascia, abscesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. The molar glands, three or four in number, situated ^ands immediately outside the posterior part of the bucci- nator, are about the size of a split pea, and their secretion is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts near the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter there is in almost all subjects an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the zygoma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scalpel. It fills up the zygomatic fossa, and being soft and elastic, does not present the least obstacle to the free movements of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. The facial (external maxillary) artery is the third artery branch of the external carotid. It runs tortuously be- neath the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus, and the stylo-hyoideus, next through the substance of the submaxillary gland, and mounts over the base of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Up to this point we traced it in the dissection of the neck (page 38). It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towards the inner angle of the eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates with the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the internal carotid. In the first part of its course, the facial artery is covered only by the platysma; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. It lies successively upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles. In its course along the face it gives off the following branches:—ARTERIES OF THE FACE. 76 a. The inferior labial artery passes inwards under the de- pressor anguli oris and inosculates with the mental branch of the inferior dental and the inferior coronary artery, 6. The inferior coronary artery comes oflf near the angle of the mouth, runs tortuously along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis muscle, and inosculates with its fellow. c. The superior coronary proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow; thus a complete arterial circle is formed round the mouth. These arteries can be felt pulsating on the inner side of the lip, near the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass oflf to the papillse of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a small branch (artery of the septum) which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose. d. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, ramifies upon the external surface of the nose, and inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. e. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termina- tion of +he facial, inosculates on the'inner side of the tendo oculi with the ophthalmic. The facial artery supplies numerous branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, and mental arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), invisible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion those sudden changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions, e. g. blushing or sudden paleness.* * M. Bernard and Brown Sequart have proved by experiment that if the branches of the sympathetic, which accompany the facial artery, bo divided, the capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.11 PAROTID GLAND. The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior edge of the masseter. In this course it descends beneath the zygo- matic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the anterior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of angular at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is often increased in size by a large vein which comes from a venous plexus deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. . ^ . This artery arises from the temporal or the external transversa- carotid in the substance of the parotid gland. It runs hs faciei. forwards across the masseter above the parotid duct, and is distributed to the glandula socia parotidis, and the masseter. It anastomoses with the infra-orbital and facial. It is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood from the facial. We have seen it as large as a goose-quil], furnishing the coronary and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. Your attention must now be directed to the parotid gland; its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland. The parotid, the largest of the saliva,ry glands, oc- gland. cupies the space between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. It is bounded above by the zygoma; below by the sterno-mastoid, and digastric muscles ; behind by the meatus auditorius and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some dis- tance over the masseter. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament; sometimes the two glands are directly continuous. The superficial siu-face of the gland is flat, and covered by a78 PAROTID GLAND. strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical. It not only envelopes the gland, but sends down numerous partitions which form a framework for its lobes. The density of this sheath ex- plains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardi- ness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus, it passes inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it extends upwards and occupies the posterior part of the glenoid cavity; below, it reaches the styloid process, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to touch the internal jugular vein. That portion of the gland which lies on the masseter muscle is called ' glandula soda parotidisJ' It varies in size in different subjects ; and is situated chiefly above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis *) is thick and strong, and about two inches long. In this respect it differs from the duct of the submaxillary gland, which is less exposed to in- jury. It runs transversely forwards over the masseter, about an inch below the zygoma, perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow-quill; it is not easily found in the mouth, being concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. Since it is desirable, in operations about the face, to avoid in-, juring the parotid duct, it is well to know that the precise direc- tion of the duct corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the upper lip. * Nic. Steno, De glandulis oris, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1661.79 rAROTID GLAND. On cutting into the substance of the parotid gland, the follow- ing objects are seen in its interior, proceeding in the order of their depth from the surface:— 1. Two or more small absorbent glands. 2. The 'pes anserinus,' or primary branches of the facial nerve. 3. Branches from the auriculo-parotidean and temporo-auricular nerves which communicate here with the facial. 4. The external jugular vein formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins. 5. The external carotid, which, after giving many branches to the gland, divides opposite the neck of the jaw, into the internal maxillary and temporal arteries.* The absorbent glands about the parotid deserve notice, because they are liable to become enlarged, and simulate disease of the parotid itself. An absorbent gland lies close to the root of the zygoma, in front of the cartilage of the ear; this gland is some- times affected in disease of the external tunics of the eye; e.g. in purulent ophthalmia : also in affections of the scalp. To display the plexus of nerves (pes anserinus), formed by the branches of the facial in the parotid gland, find one of the larger branches, say one of the malar, on the face, and trace this into the substance of the gland, as a clue to the others. Portio dura "^^^^ motor nerve of the face. It supplies all or facial the muscles of expression, except those which move the nerve. ^^^g^ arises immediately below the ' pons Varolii,' from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying upon the auditory nerve, traverses a tortuous bony canal {aquedudus Fallopii) in the * Eeriewing the intricate and deep connections of the parotid gland, one cannot but conclude that it is almost, if not quite, impracticable to remove it entirely during life. If this conclusion be correct, even in the normal condition of the gland, what must it be when the gland is enlarged by disease ? John Bell, however, relates a case in which he was induced to attempt the extirpation of a diseased parotid (Prin- ciples of Surgeiy, vol. iii. p. 262). Other surgeons, too, of more modern date, have attempted the same thing. It is not unlikely that they have mistaken a tumour in the substance of the parotid for disease of the parotid itself.80 NKUVKS OF THE FACi:. petrous portion of the temporal bone, and leaves the skull at the stylo-niastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the tem- poral bone will be investigated hereafter: at present we must trace the facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, temporo-facial and cervico-faciaL. These primary branches cross over the external carotid, and the external jugular vein, and form, by their com- munications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus called ' pes anserinus,' from its resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. The plexus and the direction of its ramifications must be carefully made out, for you may have to remove tumours formed in the interior of the parotid; you may find the nerves spread over the tumour, and you must dissect between the nerves without iujuring them. Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve sends off its posterior auricular branch (p. 3), which ascends behind the ear and supplies the retrahens and attollens aurem m. and the pos- terior belly of the occipito-frontalis; it also gives off a branch to the posterior belly of the digastricus and another to the stylo- hyoideus. In this situation it communicates by filaments with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and auriculo-parotidean nerves. The temporo-facial division crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the temporo-auricular (branch of the fifth), and subdivides into tem- poral, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and tensor tarsi, and communicate with fila- ments of the supra-orbital nerve. The malar branches cross the malar bone, supply the orbicularis oculi, and communicate with filaments of the lacrymal and superior maxillarv nerves. The inf ra-orbital branches proceed transversely forwards beneath81 NEEVES 01<^ THE FACE. the zygomatici over the masseter, and supply the elevators of the upper lip and the muscles of the nose. Beneath the levator labii superioris we find a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve (second division of the fifth). The cervico-facial division, joined by filaments from the auriculo-parotidean (branch of cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into buccal, supra- and infra- maxillary branches. The buccal branches pass forwards over the masseter parallel with the parotid duct, and supply the buccinator: they communi- cate with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (second division of the fifth). The supra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (p. 17). They arch for- wards below the jaw, covered by the platysma, and communicate with the superficialis colli (branch of the cervical plexus). Eespecting the function of the facial nerve, it is necessary to remember that though at its origin it is purely a motor nerve, yet after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth, and from the auriculo-paro- tidean branch of the cervical plexus. These communications ex- plain the pain which is often felt in facial paralysis along the track of the facial nerves. Sensitive ^^^^^ ^^^^ supra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the nerves of mental, all branches of the fifth pair. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the first divi- sion of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra- orbital notch, and is at first covered by the orbicularis and occipito- Irontalis. But it presently divides into wide-spreading branches.TEMPORAL REGION. 82 which supply the skin of the forehead and scalp. The supra- orbital artery is a branch of the ophthalmic. The infra-orbital nei-ve is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. It emerges with its artery from the infra-orbital foramen, covered by the levator labii superioris. The nerve immediately divides into several branches, palpebral, nasal, and labial; the palpebral, ascending beneath the orbicularis, supply the lower eyelid, and communicate with the facial: the nasal pass inwards to supply the nose and join the nasal branch of the first division of the fifth ; the labial, by far the most numerous, descend into the upper lip, and eventu- ally terminate in lashes of filaments, which endow the papillae of the lip with exquisite sensibility. The infra-orbital artery is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary; it supplies the muscles and skin, and inosculates with branches of the facial. The mental nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary or third division of the fifth. It emerges from the mental foramen in the lower jaw, in a direction upwards and backwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris. It soon divides into a number of branches, some of which supply the skin of the chin, but the greater number terminate in the papillse of the lower lip. The mental artery is a branch of the inferior dental. It sup- plies the gums and the chin, and inosculates with the sub-mental and inferior coronary arteries. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION.-TEMPORAL AND SPHENO-MAXILLAEY EEGIONS. In this dissection, the parts should be examined in the following order :— 1. Superficial arteries and nerves of the 6. Pterygoid muscles. ^gmple 6. Internal maxillary artery and 2. Masseter muscle. branches. 3. Temporal aponeurosis. 7- Inferior maxiUary nerve and 4! Temporal muscle. branches.83 TEMPORAL REGION. Eeflect the skin of the temple from below upwards. Under the skin you come upon a layer of toiigh fibro-cellular tissue, con- tinuous, above, with the aponeurosis of the scalp, below, with the fascia covering the masseter and the parotid gland. In this tissue are contained the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of aXry!^^^ the external carotid. Arising in the substance of the parotid gland near the neck of the jaw, it passes over the root of the zygoma close to the meatus auditorius, ascends for about an inch and a half upon the temporal fascia, and there divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. Above the zygoma it is superficial, being covered only by the attrahens aurem muscle; here it is accompanied by the temporo-auricular branch of the inferior division of the fifth nerve. It gives off the following branches :— a. Several small branches to the parotid. b. The transversalis faciei (p. 77). c. The anterior auHcular branches ramify on the front of the pinna of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular. d. The middle temporal, a small vessel, pierces the temporal fascia above the zygoma, and running in the substance of the tem- poral muscle, anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the ante- rior runs tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, distant from it about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontalis m., and inosculate with the supra-orbital and frontal arteries. The posterior runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occi- pital and posterior auricular. The anterior branch is usually selected for arteriotomy, the posterior being covered by a strong and unyielding fascia. Temporo- ^^^^ ^^^^^ supplies the temples and side of the head auricular with common sensation. It arises from the third divi- sion of the fifth pair by two roots (between which the 'middle meningeal artery' runs). From its origin it proceeds G 2TEMPOKAL REGION. 84 outwards between tlie neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, over the root of the zygoma, where it joins the temporal artery, and divides like it into an anterior and a jposterior branch. Its ramifications correspond with those of the artery. Near the condyle of the jaw the temporo-auricular nerve sends branches to the upper division of the facial nerve, endowing it with common sensibility. It here distributes branches to the parotid gland, meatus auditorius, and the articulation of the jaw. Above the zygoma it gives filaments (auricular) to the outer surface of the pinna of the ear. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple, we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis oculi, tensor tarsi, and corru- gator supercilii. This muscle arises from the lower edge of the zygoma, Masseter ^nd is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and ^^^'^l''- coronoid process of the jaw. The masseter is composed of superficial and deep fibres which cross like the letter X. The superficial fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by a strong tendon which occupies the front border of the muscle, and sends aponeurotic partitions into its substance. These fibres pass down- wards and backwards, this direction giving them greater advantage, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres (which are concealed by the parotid gland) arise from the posterior part of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, arising from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to masticate the food: it closes the jaw with great force. The following objects lie upon the masseter: 1. Glandula socia parotidis, and parotid duct; 2. Transversalis faciei artery; 3. Facial artery and vein ; 4. Branches of the facial nerve. Reflect tlie masseter from its origin. Observe the direction ot the superficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions whichSPIIENO-MAXILLAET REGION, 85 augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of orio-in. The masseteric nerve and artery enter the under surface of the muscle through the sigmoid notch of the jaw; the artery comes from the internal maxillary, the nerve from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. ^ This strong shining membrane covers the temporal apoXrosis. ^^^^^^ \ its chief use being to give additional origin to it. It is attached above to the temporal ridge, and increasing in thickness as it descends, divides near the zygoma into two layers, which are attached to the outer and inner surfaces of the zygomatic arch. These layers are separated by fat, in which is found a filament from the orbital branch of the supe- rior maxillary nerve. The density of this aponeurosis explains why abscesses in the temporal fossa rarely point outwards; the matter makes its way, beneath the zygoma, into the mouth. Eeflect the aponeurosis, and notice that it is separated from the temporal muscle, near the zygoma, by fat. The absorption of this fat, and the wasting of the muscle, occasion the sinking of the temple in emaciation and old age. Temporal "^"^""^^ ^'''^"^ temporal fossa and the muscle. temporal aponeurosis. It is inserted by a strong tendon into the inner surface, the apex, and anterior border of the coronoid process. The fibres of this muscle converging from their wide origin, pass under the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon their tendon, the outer surface of which is partially concealed by the insertion of hose fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis: remove them and see how admirably this tendon radiates into the muscle like the ribs of a fan. Thus the force of the muscle is collected into one focus. Spheno- ^^^OYe the zygomatic arch, to expose the coronoid maxillary process of the jaw, the insertion of the temporal muscle maxSr f;^^t^^l«°^«f^t which surrounds it. Next, saw through region. the corouoid process in a direction downwards and for^vards, so as to include the insertion of the muscle, and reflect it upwards without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves.SPHENO-MAXILLARY REGION. 86 To gain a good view of the muscles, nerves, and vessels of the pterygo-maxillary region, a portion of the ascending ramus of the jaw must be removed with a Hey's saw, as shown in the diagram below. ., , In this region we have to examine the two pterygoid muscles, the trunk and branches of the internal maxillary artery and nerve, and the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. This muscle arises by two heads, one from the outer External surface of the external pterygoid plate (a few fibres pterygoid. ^^.^.^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^^ ^^^^ tuberosity of the palate bone); the other from the great wing of the sphenoid. It is inserted into the neck of the jaw, and slightly mto the border of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the jomt of the jaw. Anterior temporal n. and a. Fig. 15. External pterygoid m. Posterior temporal n. and a. Masseteric n. and a. Infra-orbital a. Spheno-maxUlary fossa . . Superior dental Buccal a. Parotid duct . Buccal n. . . . Pterjgo-maxillary ligament.. . . Inter-articnlar fibro-cartiiage. Temporal-artery and nerve. Middle meningeal*. Inferior dental a. Inferior dental n. Gustatory n. ■Mylo-hjoid n. Internal pterygoid m. PTERYGOID MUSCLES AND INTERNAI- MAXILLAKY AHTEEY. The obiect of the insertion of some of its fibres into the inter- articular cartilage is, that the cartilage may follow the condyle inSPHENO-MAXILLAltY REGION. 87 all its movements. M'ben the jaw is dislocated, it is chiefly by the action of this muscle, which pulls the condyle into the zygo- matic fossa; the inter-articular cartilage being dislocated with the condyle. This muscle arises from the inner surface of the ex- pterygoid. temal pterygoid plate, and tuberosity of the palate ■ bone. It is inserted into the inner side of the angle of the jaw. Notice particularly the direction of the fibres of the pterygoid muscles. The fibres of the external run horizontally outwards and backwards from their origin; the fibres of the internal run downwards, backwards, and outwards from their origin. In structure, these muscles are similar to the masseter; that is, they are intersected by tendinous septa for the purpose of giving origin to muscular fibres. The action of the pterygoid muscles is to produce the lateral movements of the jaw essential to the mastication of the food. Consequently they are enormously developed in all ruminants, and comparatively feebly in carnivorous animals. Cut through the neck of the jaw, and disarticulate the condyle with its fibro-cartilage from the glenoid cavity, and turn it forwards with the external pterygoid, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A little dissection will bring into view the internal lateral ligament, and the internal maxillary artery. Internal "^^^^ ^"^^ terminal branches into which the maxillary external carotid divides opposite the neck of the jaw. •iitery. passes horizontally forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, then runs tortuously, in some cases above, in others beneath the external pterygoid, enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and terminates by dividing into several branches. The course of this artery is divided into three stages. In the first, the artery lies between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; in the second, it lies either over or under the external pterygoid ; in the third, it lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa.INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTP:RY. 88 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY IN THE THREE STAGES OF ITS COURSE. Branches in the First Stage. Tympanic. Meningea media. Meningea parva. Inferior dental. Bhanches in the Second Stage. Bbanc^s in tee Thibd Stage. Six to the muscles of masti- Superior dental. cation, namely:— Masseteric. Anterior and posterior temporal. External and internal pterygoid. Buccal. Infra-orbital. Descending palatine. Vidian. Nasal or spheno-palatine. Pterygo-palatine. a. The tympanic ascends behind the jaw, and passes through the glenoid fissure to the tympanum. It supplies the membrana tympani, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid and Vidian arteries. Fig. 16. Third stage. Second stage. First stage. PLAN or internal maxillabt aeteey. 6. The middle meningeal artery ascends between the two roots of the teraporo-auricular nerve through the foramen spinosum into the cranium, where it ramifies between the dura mater and the bones.INTEENAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 89 c. The meningea parva ascends through the foramen ovale into the skull, and supplies chiefly the ganglion of the fifth pair. It often conies from the meningea media. d. The inferior dental artery descends behind the neck of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental nerve. It then proceeds through a canal in the diploe to the symphysis, where it minutely inosculates with its fellow. In this canal, which runs beneath the roots of all the teeth, the artery gives branches which ascend through the little apertures in the fangs, and ramify upon the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale arises the mental branch already described (p. 82). Before enter- ing the jaw the dental artery furnishes a small branch—mylo- hyoid—which accompanies the nerve proceeding to the mylo-hyoid muscle. e. The masseteric branch passes through the sigmoid notch of the jaw to the under surface of the masseter, with the masseteric nerve, and inosculates with the facial artery. f. The anterior and posterior temporal arteries ascend to supply the temporal muscle, ramifying close to the bone, one near the front, the other near the posterior border of the muscle. g. The pterygoid branches supply the internal and external pterygoid muscles. h. The buccal branch runs forwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator. i. The superior-dental branch runs along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries through the foramina in the bone to the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums. j. The infra-orbital branch passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, then runs forwards along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, and emerges upon the face at the infra- orbital foramen. In the infra-orbital canal the artery sends branches downwards through little canals in the bone to the in- cisor and canine teeth. k. The descending palatine, a branch of considerable size, runs down the posterior palatine canal with the palatine nerve (aINFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 90 branch from Meckel's ganglion), and then along the roof of the hard palate, towards the anterior palatine canal, in whicli, much diminished in size, it inosculates on the septum nasi with a branch of the spheno-palatine artery. It supplies the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part, and furnishes branches to the soft palate. I. The Vidian, an insignificant branch, runs backwards through the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve, and is lost upon the Eustachian tube and the pharynx. m. The nasal or spheno-palatine branch enters the nose, through the spheno-palatine foramen in company with the nasal nerve from Meckel's (spheno-palatine) ganglion, and ramifies upon the spongy bones and the septum narium. n. The pterygo-palatine is a small but constant branch which runs backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and ramifies upon the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The internal maxillary vein is formed by the veins correspond- ing to the branches of the artery. It joins the temporal in the substance of the parotid gland, and forms the external jugular. This great nerve is the largest of the three divisions Inferior ^ g^-^j^ cerebral nerve. It differs from the other maxillaiy t . i -l • nerve and two divisions, i.e. the ophthalmic and the superior branches. maxillary, in that it contains motor as well as sensitive filaments; the motor being furnished by the small non-ganglionic root of the fifth nerve. Thus much of its physiology it is neces- sary to know, in order to understand its extensive distribution ; for the sensitive portion supplies the parts to which it is distri- buted with common sensation only, whilst the motor portion sup- plies all the muscles concerned in mastication. The nerve, then, composed of sensitive and motor filaments, emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale as a thick trunk, under the name of the inferior maxillary. It lies directly external to the Eustachian tube, and is covered by the external pterygoid muscle, which should be turned on one side to expose it. Immediately after its exit from the skull, the nerve divides into its several branches: some, destined for the muscles, containINFEKIOU MAXILLARY NERVE. 91 motor as well as sensitive filaineuts ; others are purely sensitive, as follow :— BRANCHES OF THE INEERIOE MAXILLARY NERVE. Branches of common Sensation. Beanches Motor. Tomporo-auricular. To temporal muscle. Inferior dental. — masseter. Buccal. ' — external pterygoid. ^ Gustatory. — internal pterygoid. — tensor palati. — mylo-hyoideus. — anterior belly of digastricus. The branches to the temporal muscle, two in number, pass outwards close to the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and ascend with the temporal arteries to the muscle. The branch to the masseter runs outwards above the external pterygoid, through the sigmoid notch of the jaw. The branch to the external ^pterygoid comes apparently from the buccal nerve in its passage through this muscle. The branch to the internal ^pterygoid and tensor palati muscles is rather difficult to find. It proceeds from the inner side of the main trunk, close to the otic ganglion, and descends between the internal pterygoid and the tensor palati, supplying them both. The buccal branch passes either above or between the fibres of the external pterygoid to the buccinator, where it spreads out into filaments, which supply the skin, mucous membrane, and glands of the cheek with common sensation. The motor power of the buccinator, remember, is derived from the facial nerve. That this buccal branch is purely sensory is proved by the action of the muscle still continuing when the motor division of the fifth nerve is paralysed. The evidence is corroborated by a case in which this buccal branch proceeded from the second division of the fifth nerve ; no communication being discovered, after very careful dis- section, between it and the motor root of the third division.* * Turner ' On the variation of the buccal nerve.' Journal of Anat. and Phys. No. L 1866.92 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The temporo-auncular branch arises by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery before it enters the skull. The nerve runs outwards behind the external pterygoid and the neck of the jawj ascends over the root of the zygoma with the temporal artery, and divides, like it, into an anterior and a posterior branch: these are distributed to the skin of the side of the bead. Behind the Yig. 17. PLAN OF THE BBANCHES OF THE INFEEIOB MAXILLAKT NERTE. condyle it sends filaments to the meatus auditorius, to the skin on the outer aspect of the ear and to the articulation of the jaw. It distributes also gland filaments to the parotid, and one especially to the upper division of the facial, which endows it with common sensibility. The inferior dental branch emerges beneath the external ptery- goid, and descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal93 INFEKIQR MAXILLARY NERVE. lateral ligament of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then nms in the canal in the diploe of the jaw below the fangs of all the teeth. It furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale the mental branch is given off. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums; hence the sympathy between them. The mylo-hyoicl branch, apparently arising from the dental, is derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may, with careful dissection, be traced to it. It leaves the dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a groove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus,- it supplies (p. 36). The gustatory branch descends first between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid, then for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Here it lies close to the raucous membrane of the mouth near the last molar tooth of the lower jaw; and division of it here has been recom- mended to relieve pain in cancer of the tongue. The gusta- tory n. then crosses obliquely the stylo-glossus, and running along the hyo-glossus to the tongue, is distributed to the papillge of its tip and sides. Beneath the external pterygoid the gustatory nerve is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani (a branch of the facial). This branch emerges from the glenoid fissure, and meeting the gustatoiy, runs along the lower border of that nerve to join the submaxillary ganglion. It is eventually distributed to the lingualis muscle. Internal '^^^^ ' SO-called' ligament proceeds from the spinous lateral process of the sphenoid bone, and is attached to the StlTeTaV. j^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ the foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw we find the in- ternal maxillary artery and vein, the temporo-auriculai- nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a por- tion of the parotid gland.STYLOID MUSCLES. 94 At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before doing this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotid. These are—1. The stylo-glossus, 2. The stylo-pharyngeus, 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 4. The etylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the styloid process near the apex, ^*y^°" and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted along glosbus. ^.^^ tongue, external to the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypo- glossal. This arises from the styloid process near the base, Stylo-plia- inserted into the posterior edge of the thyroid rjngeus. cartilage. It descends along the side of the pharynx between the superior and the middle constrictor. Curving round its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. Its action is to raise the , larynx with the pharynx in deglutition. Between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly parallel with both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from the apex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os- hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The ascending ■palatine artery, a branch of the external maxil- lary or facial (p. 38), runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharynx, and the tonsils. It inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is observed ciirving for- Glosso-pba- ^ards under the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. ryngea nei-ve. divisions of the eighth pair. It arises by four or five filaments from the medulla oblongata in the groove between the olivary body and the restiform tract. It leaves the skull through the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius in front of the remaining divisions of the eighth pair, and descends between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery.95 PHARYNGEAL PLEXUS. INTERNAL CAKOTID. It then crosses in front of the artery and proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. It now curves forwards over that muscle and the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and dis- appears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue and the tonsils. According to the present state of our knowledge, the glosso- pharyngeal is, at its origin, purely a sensitive nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial, the pneumogastric and the sympathetic, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve—i.e. composed of both sensitive and motor filaments. At the base of the skull it is provided with two ganglia—the jugular and the petrous (ganglion of Andersch). The minute branches given off by these ganglia will be noticed hereafter; at present we are more concerned with what is called the ' pharjmgeal plexus ' of nerves. By the side of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, plexu^"^'"'^^ intricate interlacement of nerves, constituting the plexus which presides over deglutition. Its dissec- tion requires much time and care, and a pharynx prepared exclu- sively for the purpose. The nerves which compose it are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, the spinal acces- sory, and the sympathetic. Consequently it possesses nerves of three different kinds—ganglionic, sensitive, and motor. Its minute ramifications supply the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and tonsils. Course and The internal carotid artery, proceeding from the divi- of th^i'nter- ^^^^ commou carotid, opposite the upper border nal carotid of the thyroid cartilage, ascends to the base of the skull, artsry. j^/ the sicle of the pharynx close to the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runs very tortu- ously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. In the first part of its course, it is situated immediately outside the external carotid, near the inner border of the sterno-mastoid. But itPNEUMOGASTRIC NEltVE. 96 soon gets beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply seated by the side of the pharynx. In its course it is crossed successively by the hypoglossal nerve, the occipital artery, the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles; higher, it is crossed obliquely, by the styloid process, by the stylo-glossus and pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament, all of which last intervene between it and the external carotid. The internal jugular vein runs along the outer side of the artery. Behind the artery are the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The rectus capitis anticus major separates it from the cervical vertebrae. But after all, the most important relation of the artery in a surgical point of view is, that it ascends close by the side of the pharynx and tonsils. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsils, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwards towards the mesial line: observe this caution the more, because, in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases the least deviation of the instrument in an outward direction would injure the vessel. This artery generally arises from the angle of the pharyngeal common carotid, or from the commencement^ of the artery. external carotid; it ascends between the internal carotid artery and the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull. It gives off branches which supply the pharynx, the tonsils, the Eustachian tube, and the muscles in front of the spine. A very constant branch runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and supplies the soft palate. It also sends small meningeal branches to supply the dura mater; one of which ascends through the foramen lacerum medium, and the other through the foramen jugulare with the internal jugular vein. _ _ _ The pneumogastric nerve is one of the three divisions gaTtrr" of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It arises from nerve. ^\yQ medulla oblongata by a series of roots along the aroove between the olivary body and the restiform tract. ItPNEUMOGASTRIC NEKVE. 97 passes out of the skull with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebra, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery; in the lower, between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side crossing in front of the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle; on the left running nearly parallel with it. In their course through the chest, the pneumogastric nerves have not similar relations. The right nerve lies beneath the subclavian vein, and then descending by the side of the trachea, is continued behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. The left nerve passes behind the left brachio- cephalic vein, then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves subdivide on this tube into a plexus; the right nerve forming the posterior, and the left, the anterior oesophageal plexus. Each plexus again collects its fibres together: thus two main nerves are formed which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm: of these the right is distributed over the posterior, the left over the anterior surface of the stomach. In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdo- men, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs; namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, and the stomach. Within the foramen jugulare, a small ganglion (Arnold's ganglion) is formed upon the pneumogastric nerve, which is then joined by a branch of considerable size from the nervus acces- sorius. Arnold's ganglion will be described hereafter. But soon after leaving the skull, the pneumogastric nerve swells out, and forms a second ganglion (inferior ganglion) of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occupies about an inch of the nerve, but does not involve the whole of its fibres; the branch from the spinal accessory not being included. It is united to the hypo- HI 98 PNEUM0GA8TRIC NERVE. * glossal nerve, from which it receives filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Thus, the pneumogastric, at its origin probably a nerve of sensation only, becomes, in consequence of the reinforcements from these various branches, a compound nerve, and in all re- spects analogous to a spinal nerve. Its branches are— 1. The auricular (Arnold), which will be described hereafter. 2. The pharyngeal, which arises from the inferior ganglion, and descends either in front of or behind the internal carotid to join the pharyngeal plexus (p. 95). 3. The superior laryngeal, also derived from the inferior ganglion, descends behind the internal carotid to the interval between the os-hyoides and the thyroid cartilage, where it enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. The superior laryngeal nerve gives off the ' external laryngeal,'' which descends beneath the depressors of the os-hyoides to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. 4. The cardiac, two in number, which descend behind the sheath of the carotid to the cardiac plexus. The upper branch is small, and proceeds from the inferior ganglion; the lower comes from the main trunk in its course down the neck. On their passage to the heart, the right cardiac nerves run chiefly behind the arch of the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus; the left, chiefly in front of it, to the superficial cardiac plexus. 5. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent branch of the pneumo- gastric turns on the right side under the subclavian artery (p. 53), and runs up to the larynx, between the trachea and the bodies of the cervical vertebrae: on the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx between the trachea and the oesophagus. On both sides it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. The remaining branches of the pneumogastric, to the lungs, the oesophagus and stomach, will be examined in the dissection of the chest.SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. 99 Now examine the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic n^r*^^*'° system of nerves. Speaking in general terms of tliis system, it may be said that it consists of a series of ganglia arranged on either side of the spine, from the first cervical to the last sacral vertebra. The successive ganglia of the same side are connected by intermediate nerves, so as to form a con- tinuous cord on each side of the spine: this constitutes what is called the trunk of the sympathetic system, and is connected with all the spinal nerves. Its upper or cephalic extremity penetrates into the cranium through the carotid canal, surrounds the internal carotid artery, communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cranial nerves, and joins its fellow of the opposite side upon the anterior communicating artery.* Its sacral extremity joins its fellow by means of a little ' ganglion impar,' situated in the mesial line, upon the last sacral vertebra. The sympathetic system presides over the functions of those organs which are withdrawn from our control. Thus it regulates the circulation of the blood, respiration, digestion, and secretion. Cervical gan- cervjlcal portion of the sympathetic are three gliaofsym- ganglia, named from their position, superior, middle, pathetic. j • • ^ and mierior. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, opposite the bodies of the second and third cervical vertebrae, and lies behind the internal carotid artery, upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It is of a reddish-grey colour like other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. To facilitate the description of its several branches we divide them into—1st, those which are presumed to connect it with other nerves ; and 2ndly, those which originate from it. It is then connected by branches as follow: — a. With each of the four upper spinal nerves. b. With the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. * Here is situated the ' so-called' ganglion of Eibes. H 2100 SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. c. With the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cerebral nerves (in the cavernous sinus). cl With the several ganglia of the sympathetic system about the head and neck ; namely, the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic, and submaxillary. The branches which it distributes are— e. Nerves to the heart—One or more descend behind the sheath of the carotid, and entering the chest, join the cardiac plexuses, superficial and deep. /. Nerves to the pharynx.—These join the pharyngeal plexus on the middle constrictor of the pharynx. g. Nerves to the blood-vessels.—These nerves, named on account of their delicacy ' nervi molles,' ramify around the external carotid artery and its branches. The middle cervical ganglion is something less than a barley- corn in size. It is situated behind the carotid sheath, about the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, near the inferior thyroid artery. It receives branches from the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, and gives oif— a. Branches to the thyroid body.—These accompany the inferior thyroid artery. b. Branch to the heart—This usually descends in front of the subclavian artery into the chest, and joins the deep cardiac plexus. In cases where the middle cervical ganglion is absent, the pre- ceding nerves are supplied by the sympathetic cord connecting the superior and inferior ganglia. The inferior cervical ganglion is of considerable size, and is situated in the interval between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, immediately behind the vertebral artery. It receives branches from the seventh and eighth spinal nerves, and others which, descending from the fourth, fifth, and sixth, through the foramina in the transverse processes of the vertebrae, form a plexus around the vertebral artery. The branches which it gives off are—101 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST, a. InfeHor cardiac nerve.—This communicates with the re- current laryngeal, and joins the cardiac plexus beneath the arch of the aorta. b. Nerves to the blood-vessels.—These ramify around the verte- bral and subclavian arteries, DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. Before the several organs contained in the chest are examined, we ought to have some knowledge of its frame-work. The true ribs with their cartilages describe a series of arcs, increasing in length from above downwards, and form with the spine behind, and the sternum in front, a barrel of a conical shape, broader in the lateral than in the antero-posterior direction. The lower aperture or base of the cavity is closed in the recent state by the diaphragm, which forms a muscular partition between the chest and the abdomen. This partition is arched, so that it constitutes a vaulted floor for the chest, and by its capability of alternately falling and rising can increase or diminish the capaciousness of the chest. The spaces between the ribs are filled by the intercostal muscles. In each intercostal space there are two layers of these muscles, arranged like the letter X. The fibres of the outer layer run obliquely from above downwards, and forwards; those of the inner layer in the reverse direction. The upper aperture of the chest gives passage to the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the head, neck, and upper extremities, the superior intercostal, and internal mammary arteries, the inferior thyroid veins, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and longus colli muscles, the pneumogastric, the left recurrent laryn- geal, the phrenic, and the sympathetic nerves; also to the first dorsal passing up to join the brachial plexus, the thoracic duct, and, lastly, to the apices of the lungs; the interspaces between these parts being occupied by a dense fibro-cellular tissue. Such, in outline, is the frame-work of the cavity, closed on all sides, which contains the heart and bmgs. Observe that its walls are made up of different structures, bone, cartilage, and muscle.102 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. admirably disposed to fulfil two important conditions. By tbeir solidity and elasticity they protect the important organs contained in them; by their alternate dilatation and contraction they act as mechanical powers of respiration. For they can increase the cavity of the chest in three directions: in height, by the descent of the diaphragm ; in width, by the turning outwards of the ribs ; and in depth, by the elevation of the sternum. The chest of the female differs from that of the male in the following points:—Its general capacity is less; the sternum is shorter ; the upper opening is larger iu proportion to the lower ; the upper ribs are more movable, and therefore permit a greater enlargement of the chest at its upper part, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order:— 1. Triangularis sterni, with the internal mammary artery. 2. Anterior mediastinum. 3. Eight and left brachio-cephalic veins and superior vena cava 4. Course and relations of the arch of the aorta. 5. The three great branches of the arch, 6. Course of the phrenic nerves. 7. Position and relations of the heart. 8. Pericardium. 9. Pleiira. 10. Position and form of the lungs. 11. Posterior mediastinum and its contents; namely, the aorta, the thoracic duct, the vena a^ygos, the cesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves. 12. Sympathetic nerve. 13. Intercostal muscles, vessels, and nerves. 14. Cardiac plexus of nerves. An opening must be made into the chest, by carefully removing the upper four-fifths of the sternum, and the cartilages of all the true ribs.* In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the pleura, which is closely connected with the cartilages. On one * Those who are more proficient in dissection should not remove ^^^^ "J^^^ «^«rnum but leave say a quarter of an inch of its upper part with the first r.b attached :rr Thi Me portion serves as a valuable landmark, although it obstructs, to a certain extent, the view of the subjacent vessels.DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 103 side the internal mammary artery should be removed ; on the other, left. On the lander surface of the sternum and cartilages of Triangularis the ribs is a muscle, named the 'triangularis sterni.' sterm. arises from the ensiform cartilage and the lower part of the sternum, and is inserted by digitations into the carti- lages of the true ribs from the sixth to the second: its fibres ascend outwards to their insertion; its action is to depress the costal cartilages. Thus, on emergency, it acts in expiration. Its nerve comes from the intercostal nerves, its arteries from the internal mammary. This artery springs from the subcla\dan in the first Internal 7x • i i • • mammary part of its course. On entermg the chest it is crossed artery. ^t^^ phrenic nerve. It then descends perpendicularly, about half an inch from the sternum, between the cartilages of the ribs and the triangularis sterni: it then enters the wall of the abdomen behind the rectus abdominis, and finally inosculates with the epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). Its branches are as follow :— a. Arteria comes nervi phrenici.—A very slender artery, which accom.panies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and anastomoses with the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta. h. Mediastinal and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the tri- angularis sterni. The thymic are only visible in childhood, and disappear with the thymus gland. c. Anterior intercostal.—One, and often two, for each inter- costal space are distributed to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They lie at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscle, and subsequently between the two iatercostals. They inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. ' d. Perforating arteries, which pass through the same number of intercostal spaces as the preceding branches, and supply the pectoral muscle and skin of the chest. In the female they are of large size, for the supply of the mammary gland. e. The intercosto-phi'enic branch runs outwards behind theDISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 104 cartilages of the false ribs, and terminates near the last intercostal space. It supplies small arteries to the diaphragm, to the sixth, seventh, and sometimes the eighth intercostal spaces. Two venae comites surround the artery, and unite into a single trunk in the upper part of the chest, to terminate in the brachio- cephalic vein of its own side. There are several absorbent glands in the neighbourhood of the internal mammary artery. They receive the absorbents from the inner portion of the mammary gland, from the diaphragm, and the upper part of the abdominal wall. In disease of the inner portion of the mamma, these glands may enlarge without any enlargement of those in the axilla. ,^ The ' mediastiaa' are the spaces which the two Mediastma, anterior and pleural sacs leave between them in the antero-posterior posterior. plane of the chest. There is an anterior and a pos- terior mediastinum. To put these spaces in the simplest light, let us imagine the heart and lungs to be removed from the chest, and the two pleural sacs to be left in it by themselves. The two sacs, if inflated, would then appear like two bladders, in contact only in the middle, as shown by the dotted outlines in the an- nexed scheme (fig. 18). The interval marked a, behind the sternum, would represent the an- terior mediastinum: the interval b, the posterior mediastinum. But now let us introduce the heart and lungs again, between the two pleural sacs : these must give way to make room for them, so that the two sacs are not in contact anywhere in the middle line of the chest. Therefore, with the heart and lungs interposed, the pleural sacs appear as shown in the diagram, fig. 19,—which represents a trans- verse section through the chest. Here you see that the heart and the lungs become invested by the pleural sacs; or, to speak more105 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. technically, the sacs are reflected over the heart and the lungs, on each side respectively. But the anterior and posterior mediastina remain unaltered. Looking at the chest in front, the anterior mediastinum appears as shown in the cut (p. 117). It is not precisely longitudinal in its direction, but inclines slightly towards the left, owing to the position of the heart. Its area varies : thus it is extremely narrow in the middle where the edges of the lungs nearly meet; but it is wider above and below, where the lungs diverge. What parts are contained in the anterior mediastinum ?—The remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and triangularis sterni muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein (which crosses behind the first bone of the sternum), and a few absorbent glands. Kg. 19. Internal mam- mary a. . . Phrenic n. Internal mam- mary a. Phrenic n. (Esophagus with n. vagi. Aorta. Thoracic dnct. Vena azygos. DIAGBAM OF THE BEFXECTIONS OF THE PLEtTKAl SACS IN DOTTED LINES. The posterior mediastinum (fig. 19) contains the oesophagus, the two pneumogastric nerves, the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. A middle mediastinum is described by some anatomists. It is the largest of the mediastina, and contains the heart with its106 BKACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. large vessels, the phrenic nerves, and the bifurcation of the trachea. Before we can display the brachio-cephalic veins, we must remove a layer of the deep cervical fascia, which descends over them from the neck, and is lost upon the pericardium. Their coats are closely connected to this fascia; and its chief use appears to be to keep the veins always open for the free return of blood to the heart. Brachio- "^^^ right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) cephalic veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, veins. ^jjg confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian. They differ in their course and relations, and must, therefore, be described separately. The left bracJiio-cephalic vein passes obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum towards the right side, to join the vena cava superior. It is about two inches and a half in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards. It crosses over the trachea and the origins of the three primary branches of the arch of the aorta. We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurism of these vessels; for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurism and the sternum; hence the swelling and venous congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; namely, of the left arm and left side of the neck. The upper border of the vein lies not far from the upper border of the sternum; in some instances it lies even higher, and I have seen it crossing in front of the trachea a full inch above the sternum. This occasional deviation should be borne in mind in the perform- ance of tracheotomy. The right hrachio-ce'plialiG vein descends nearly vertically to join the superior vena cava, opposite the first intercostal space. It is about one and a half inch in length, and is situated about one inch from the mesial line of the sternum. On its left side, but on a posterior plane, runs the arteria innominata; on its right side is the pleura. Between the vein and the pleura is the phrenic nerve. The brachio-cephalic veins are not provided with valves. The veins which empty themselves into the right and left brachio- cephalic are as follow:—107 VENA CAVA SUPERIOK. The Eight B. C. Vein receives:— The vertebral. The deep cervical. The internal mammary. The inferior thyroid (sometimes). The Left B. C. Vein receives: The vertebral. The deep cervical. The internal mammary. The inferior thyroid. The superior intercostal. The pericardiac. Vena cava superior. This is the great channel through Avhich the impure blocd from the head, upper extremities, and chest, returns into the right auricle. It is formed by the confluence of the right and left brachio-cephalic veins, which unite at nearly a right angle opposite the first intercostal space on the right border of the sternum ; that is, about the level of the highest point of the arch of theaorta (p. 53). The vena cava descends Fig. 20. Snperior intercostal Internal mammary Vena azygos . . . Middle thyroid. Internal jugular. External jugular. Vertebral. Supra scapular. Posterior scapular. Subclavian. Internal marmnary. Pericardiac. Superior inter- costal. SUPEEIOE VENA CAVA AlTD ITS TEIBUTAEIES. vertically, with a slight inclination backwards, to the upper part of the right auricle. It is from two and a half to three inches long. The lower half of it is covered by the pericardium; you must, therefore, open this sac to see that the serous layer of the pericardium is reflected over the front and sides of the vein. In respect to its relations, notice that the vein lies in front of the right bronchus and the right pulmonary vessels; and that it isARCH OF THE AORTA. 108 overlapped by the ascending aorta, which lies to its left side and parallel with it. In the npper half of its course, that is, above the pericardium, it is covered on its right side by the pleura; on this side, in contact with it, descends the phrenic nerve. Before it is covered by the pericardium, the vena cava receives the right vena azygos, which comes in arching over the right bronchus. ^ ^ The aorta is the great trunk from which all the relations of arteries of the body carrying pure blood are derived, the arch of arises from the upper and back part of the left ven- tricle of the heart. Its origin is situated behind the pulmonary artery and on the left side of the sternum, about the level of the third intercostal space. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the first intercostal space on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the left side of the third, completes the arch. The direction of the arch, therefore, is from the sternum to the spine, and rather oblique from right to left. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the ' sinus ' or bulge of the aorta, is observed on the right side of the arch, about the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion : it is little marked in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations (the sinuses of Valsalva), one corresponding to each of the valves at the commencement of the aorta, will be examined hereafter. For convenience of description, the arch of the aorta is divided into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending portion.—To see this portion of the aorta, the pericardium must be opened. You then observe that this part of the artery is covered all round by the serous layer of the peri- cardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. It is about two inches in length, and ascends with a slight curve to the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and over- lapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side,ARCH OF THE AOKTA. 109 but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery; behind it, are part of the auricle, the right pulmonary artery, and the right bronchus. This part of the aorta gives off the right and left coronary arteries for the supply of the heart. Transverse portion.—This portion of the aorta arches from the front to the back of the thorax, and extends from the upper border of the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra. In front it is covered by the left pleura, and is crossed by the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. Near its summit runs the left brachio-cephalic vein; v?ithin its concavity are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The artery rests upon the trachea a little above its bifurcation, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. From the transverse part of the arch arise the arteria innominata, the left carotid, and subclavian arteries. Descending portion.—This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left is the pleura. What parts are contained within the arch of the aorta ? The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the deep cardiac plexus. These relations vary according to the size of the ^e^archof^ heart, the obliquity of the ribs, and the general de- the aorta to yelopment of the chest. In a well-formed adult the ascending aorta is, at the most prominent part of its bulge, about half of an inch behind the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the arch is about one inch below the upper edge of the sternum.* * The relations of the arch of the aorta to the sternum vary even in adults, more especially if there be any hypertrophy of the heart. As an instance among many, I may mention that of a young female who died of phthisis. The position of the aortic valves was opposite the middle of the sterniun, on a level with the middle of the110 LEFT CAROTID ARTERY. From the upper part of the arch arise three great arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs ; namely, the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. This arises from the commencement of the trans- phalic or^iii- verse part of the arch. It ascends obliquely towards nominate the right, and after a course of about one inch and a arteiy. }^.^]{^ divides behind the right sterno-clavicular joint into two arteries of nearly equal size—the right carotid, and the right subclavian. What are the relations of the innominate artery? It ascends obliquely in front of the trachea; the right brachio-cephalic vein descends on its right side; the left brachio-cephalic and inferior thyroid veins cross in front of it: parallel and close to the artery are the slender cardiac nerves.'^ With the anatomy of the parts before you, it is easy to under- stand that an aneurism of the innominate artery might be distin- guished from an aneurism of the aorta—I. By a pulsation in the neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspnoea owing to pressure on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurismal thrill being confined to the rigid arm. This artery arises from the arch of the aorta close to arter^^™*^^'^ the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum to the neck. In the first part of its course it lies upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the oesophagus and thoracic duct. It is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein; on its outer side are the left subclavian artery and feecond costal articulation. The highest part of the arch was on a level with the tipper border of the stermim; the arteria innominata was situated entirely in front of the trachea; and the left brachio-cephalic vein crossed the trachea so much above the sternum that it would have been directly exposed to injury in tracheotomy. * In some cases the innominate artery ascends for a short distance above the clavicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea. "We have already aUiided to the fact that it occasionally gives oifa middle thyroid artery (p. 31), which ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and is therefore directly in the way in tracheotomy.PHRENIC NERVES. Ill pneumogastric nerve, and on the inner side is the artelria in- nominata. In the rest of its course it resembles the right carotid (p. 27). This is the third branch of the arch. It ascends out of the Left sub chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then ciavian curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In the ai-tery. gj.g^ ^^^^ jj.g course it is deeply seated, and is covered on its left side by the pleura. Close to its right .side are the trachea and oesophagus; between the artery and the oesophagus we find the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch, it is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. It is covered in front by the left lung, and it rests upon the longus colli. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 54). Coui-se of the '^^^ phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth, and phrenic nerves fifth ccrvical nerves. It descends over the- scalenus chest^''*^^ anticus, and enters the chest between the subclavian vein and artery. It then runs in front of the root of the lung between the pleura and the pericardium to the dia- phragm (fig. 21), to the under surface of which it is distributed. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the brachio-cephalic vein and superior vena cava; the left crosses in front of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta; besides which, the left is rather longer than the right, because it has to go round the apex of the heart.* Before the phrenic nerve divides into branches to supply the diaphragm, it sends off minute filaments to the pleura and the pericardium. Having studied these anatomical details, consider for a moment what kind of symptoms are likely to be produced by an aneurism of the arch of the aOrta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important patts in the neighbourhood will answer the * In the upper part of the chest the phrenic is sometimes joined by a branch from the brachial plexus, less frequently by a branch from the clescendens noni.112 PHRENIC NERVES. question. The effects will vary according to the part of the artery which is the seat of the aneurism, and, according to the volume, the form, and the position of the tumour. One can understand Pig. 21. 3rd cervical n. 4th cervical n. Piieumogas- tric u. . . Sth cervical n. Brachial plexus Phrenic n. . Line of reflec- tion of peri- cardium. Cervlcalis aficendens a. Scalenus anticus. Inferior thyroid a. SuperScialis colU a. Phrenic n. Posterior scapular a. Supra scapular a. SnbclaTian a. Superior intercostal a. Internal mammary a. Pneumogastric n. Phrenic n. Appendix of left auricle. that compression of the vena cava superior, or either of the brachio- cephalic veins, would occasion swelling and congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; that compression of the trachea or one of the bronchi might occasion dyspnoea, and thus simulatePOSITION or THE HEART. 113 disease of the larynx;* that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of stricture. Nor must we forget the imme- diate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve,t and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? You can easily see how aneurisms of the aorta prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. You will see, too, why an aneurism of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane : now if an aneurism take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium ; an occurrence which is speedily fatal, because, tbe pericardium being filled with blood, prevents the heart from acting. Position and '^^^ ^^^^'^ situated obliquely in the chest, between heart tlie lungs. Its base, i.e. the part by which it is at- tached, and from which its great vessels proceed, is directed upwards towards the right shoulder; its apex points downwards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth costal car- tilages. It is supported by the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. It is maintained in its position by a membranous bag termed the ' pericardium,' which is lined by a serous membrane to facilitate its movements. The pericardium must first claim our attention. Pericardium pericardium is the membranous bag which en- closes the heart and the large vessels at its base. It is broadest below, where it is attached to the tendinous centre of the diaphragm ; above it is prolonged over the great vessels of the heart, and is connected with the deep cervical fascia. On each * In the Museimi of Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487, in which la^ngotomy was performed under the circumstances described in the text. t See Med. Gaz., Dec. 22nd, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneurismal tumour upon the left recurrent nerve. IPOSITION OF THE HEART. 114 side it is covered by the pleura; the phrenic nerve running down between them. In front of it, is tlie anterior mediastinum; behind Fig. 22. BELATIYB POSITION OF THE HEART ITS VALYES WITH REGARD TO THE WALLS OF THE CHEST. The valves are denoted by curved lines. The aortic valves axe opposite the thinl in- tercostal space on the'left side, close to the sternnm .^1-.i'" ;»-7^_^;;;^-%7^ just above the aortic, opposite the junction of the third rib with the f™- ^^'^ mitral valves are opposite the third intercostal space, about one inch to ^^^^ e.^ c.t the sternum. The ^i..s,id valves lie behind the middle of the ^^^^^^^'^^^^^ level of the fourth rib. Aortic murmurs, as shown by the arrow, aie fj^^^^^ up the aorta: 7>ntral murmurs, as shown by the arrow, are propagated towards the apex of the heart. it the posterior. Of all the objects in the posterior mediastinum, that which is nearest to the pericardium is the oesophagus. It isPERICARDIUM. llo worth remembering that the oesophagus is in close contact with the back of the pericardium for nearly two inches; this fact accounts for what one sometimes observes in cases of pericarditis where there is much effusion ; I mean pain and difficulty in swal- lowing. The pericardium is what is called a 'fibro serous' membrane. Its fibrous layer, which constitutes its chief strength, is external. This laj^er is attached below to the central tendon of the diaphragm. Above, it forms eight sheaths for the vessels at the base of the heart; namely, one for the vena cava superior, four for the pul- monary veins, two for the pulmonary arteries, and one for the aorta. The serous layer forms a shut sac. It lines the fibrous layer, and is reflected over the great vessels and the heart. To see where the serous layer is reflected over the vessels, distend the pericardium with air. Thus you will find that this layer is reflected over the aorta as high as the origin of the arteria innomiuata. It is reflected over the vena cava superior, after the entrance of the vena azygos.* In the healthy state the capacity of the pericardium pretty nearly corresponds to the size of the heart when distended to its utmost. The healthy pericardium, with the heart in situ, may be made to hold in the adult about ten ounces of fluid. The peri- cardium is not extensible. V/hen an aneurism bursts into it, death » Those who choose to follow the reflections of the serous layer of the pericardium, will find that it covers the great vessels to an extent greater than is generally imagined' though in tnith the extent is not precisely similar in all bodies. The aorta and pul- monary artery are wrapped in a complete sheath, two inches in length, so that these vessels are covered all round by the serous layer, except where they are in contact Iiideed you can pass your finger behind them both, through a foramen bounded in front by the two great vessels themselves, behind, by the upper part of the auricles and above by the r.glat puln.onary artery. Again, the back of the aorta, where it lies on t .e auncles, is covered by the serous pericardium. The superior cava is covered all round, except behind where it crosses the right pulmonary artery. What little Here is of the inferior cava within the pericardium is also covered all round. The amicr l"7 r'"^ f"''''■^^ : ^'gl^fc ^'^^ ^Behind the i^ni !;, / "'^ ^^'^^"^^ fheform of a pouch, rising above their upper border, so as to be loosely connected to the left bronchusPRECORDIAL REGION. 116 is caused not by loss of blood, but by compression of the heart in consequence of the inextensibility of the pericardium. The pericardium derives its blood from the internal mammary, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries. Cut open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex everywhere except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. When the pericardium is thus laid open, the following objects are exposed: viz. 1. Part of the right ventricle; 2. Part of the left ventricle; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root of the pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The pulmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior; 8. The right and left coronary arteries. The heart then is placed behind the lower half of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the right half of the chest, and rests upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, which is nearly on a plane with the lowest part of the fifth rib. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, about two inches below the nipple, and one inch on its sternal side. Its base extends as high as the upper border of the third costal cartilage, and about half an inch to the right of the sternum. The ' prcecordial region' is the outline of the heart Prsecorclial traced upon the front wall of the chest. We ought to region. ^^^^ define this region with something like pre- cision. We should know how much of it is covered and separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung (fig. 23). This then is the rule :—Let the middle of the fifth costal cartilage be the centre of a circle two inches in diameter: this circle will define well enough, for all practical purposes, that part of the prsecordial reo-ion which is naturally less resonant to percussion; here the heart is uncovered except by pericardium and loose cellular tissue, and is very near the wall of the chest. In the rest of the prse- cordial region the heart is covered and sepai-ated from the chest by intervening lung.THE LUNGS. 117 Where should we put the stethoscope when we listen to the valves of the heart ? For practical purposes it is enough to remember that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stethoscope will cover a portion of them all, if it be placed a little to the left of the mesial line of the sternum opposite the third intercostal space (fig. 23). They are all covered by a thin portion of lung : there- fore we ask a patient to stop breathing while we listen to his heart. Kg. 23. FOBM OF THE LUNGS, Am> THE. EXTENT TO WHICH THEY OYEBLAP THE HEAET AND ITS TALVES. hnJ nTl'^"" ^'^'^ ^ ^'^^^^ ^ith position of the W ^ V """^ "^^^ "^"^^^^"^ ^i^^^lf l^a^i^g alternately forwards and backwards, by lying on this side and on that, placing ll X'^T ^P°^ precordial region. He will hnd that he can, in a slight degree, alter the place and the extentPLEURA. 118 of the impulse of the heart. Inspiration and expiration also alter the position of the heart. In inspiration the heart descends with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm ahout half an inch. As the lungs are continually gliding to and fro, within Pleura. chest, they are provided with a serous membrane to facilitate their motion. This membrane is termed the pleura. There is one for each lung. Each pleura forms a completely closed sac, and is disposed like all other serous sacs; that is, one part of the sac lines the containing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained organ. Its several parts are named after the surface to which they adhere : that which lines the ribs is called ' pleura costalis ;' that which forms the mediastinum, ' pleura mediastinalis;' that which covers the lung, ' pleura pulmonalis.' Unlike the peritoneum, the pleura forms no folds except a small one called ' ligamentum latum pulmonis,' which extends from the root of the lung to the diaphragm. If asked to describe the reflections of the pleural sac (fig. 19, p.l05), I should say, that it lines the ribs and part of the sternum ; from the sternum it is reflected backwards over the pericardium; from thence it passes over the front of the root of the lung, and so on over the entire lung to the back part of its root, whence it is reflected over the sides of the vertebrae, and thus reaches the ribs again The spaces called ' anterior' and ' posterior' mediastina, formed by the pleurse, have been already described, p. 104. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sliding of the lung. When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflammation, the moving lung produces a 'friction' sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro- thorax ; when by pus, ' empyema;' and when by air, ' pneumo- thorax.' Introduce your hand into the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the diaphragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to theTHE LUNGS. 119 lower border of the last rib. Suppose a musket ball to lodge in the pleural sac, it would fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roll down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it would be in the back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. Position and lungs are situated in the chest, one on each side form of the of the heart. Each fits accurately into the cavity which contains it. Each, therefore, is conical in form; the base rests on the diaphragm; the apex projects in the neck a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. Its outer surface is adapted to the ribs; its inner surface is excavated to make room for the heart. But the best way to see the shape of the lungs is to inject the trachea with wax, which is tantamount to taking a cast of each thoracic cavity. In such a preparation, besides the general convexities and concavities alluded to, you would find in the right lung a little indentation for the right brachio-cephalic vein, in the left an indentation for the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery. Each lung is divided into an upper and a lower lobe by a deep fissm-e, which commences behind about three inches from the apex, and proceeds obliquely downwards to the front a little lower than the fifth costal cartilage. Speaking broadly, the whole of the anterior portion of the lung is formed by the upper lobe ; the whole of the posterior portion by the lower lobe. It should be noticed, however, that the upper lobe of the right lung is divided by a second fissure which slices off a triangular portion called the ' middle lobe.' The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side by the liver. On an average, the right lung is to the left, in point of size, as 11 to 10. To understand rightly the shape and play of the lungs in in- spiration and expiration, take an opportunity of making the follow- ing experiment:—Cut away the intercostal muscles and the pleura.120 THE LUNGS. withoiit wouQding the lungs, and then distend the lungs by blowing into the trachea with bellows. Thus, you will ascertain how far the front edge of the lung overlaps the pericardium; how low the lung descends between the ribs and the diaphragm on the side and at the back of the chest. You will see the great gap in the left lung for the point of the heart. By making the lung expand and contract, you will observe how it slides along the pleural lining of the chest. This sliding takes place in health in silence. But when the naturally polished surface of the pleura becomes rough- ened by inflammatory deposit, a sound of greater or less distinctness (friction sound") may be heard. The practical result of this investigation should be to enable us to trace upon a living chest the outline of the lungs, that we may know what parts are naturally resonant on percussion. Commencing, then, from above (fig. 23, p. 117), we find that the apex of the lung rises into the neck a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. This part of the lung mounts up behind the subclavian artery and the anterior scalene muscle, and deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, the seat of tubercular disease. From the sternal end of the clavicles the lungs converge towards the mesial line, where their edges almost meet opposite the junction of the second rib. There is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth, the inner margins of each lung run parallel and almost close behind the middle of the sternum; consequently they over- lap the great vessels at the root of the heart. Below the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the lungs diverge from each other, but not in an equal degree. The Ze/^presents the notch for the heart, and curves nearly in the course of the fourth costal cartilage ; at the lower part of its curve it projects more or less over the apex of the heart. The right descends almost perpendicularly behind the sternum as low ^ the attachment of the ensiform cartilage, and then, turmng outwards, corresponds with the direction of the sixth costal cartilage. Hy- pertrophy of the heart, or effusion into the pericardium, will notCONTENTS OF POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. 121 only raise above the ordinary level the point where the lungs diverge, but also increase their divergence; hence the greater dulness on percussion. ^ ^ . The posterior mediastinum (p. 105) is formed by the mediasti- reflection of the pleural sac on each side, from the ^"l^ ^^oot of the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. It is bounded in front by the pericardium. To obtain a view of it, draw out the right lung, and fasten it to the left side. This mediastinum contains the aorta ; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos; between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct; inferiorly are the splanchnic nerves and some lymphatic glands. To expose these last, we have to remove the pleura, and a layer of firm fascia which lines the chest outside it. We have already traced the arch of the aorta to the aorta'^"'' lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. From this point, the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the middle line. Oppo- site the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crura of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura; on its right run the vena azygos and thoracic duct; in front of it are, the root of the left lung, the pericardium, and nearer to the mesial line is the oesophagus. Its branches will be described presently. This vein commences in the abdomen by small azygos. |^j.g^j^g]^gg ^j.QT^^ Qf ^g Kimbar veins, and generally communicates with the renal, or the vena cava itself. This, indeed, is the main point about the origin of the vena azygos, that it communicates directly or indirectly with the vena cava inferior. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebras and over the right intercostal arteries. When the vein reaches the level of the third dorsal vertebra, it arches over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before this vessel is122 THORACIC DUCT. Fig. 24. covered by pericardium. In its course it receives all the right intercostal veins, the spinal veins, the oesophageal and commonly the right bronchial vein. Opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra it is joined by the left vena azygos. The left vena azygos, 'vena azygos minor,' runs up the left side of the spine. This vein commences in the abdomen by small branches communicating with the inferior vena cava, and ascends on the left side of the aorta, through the aortic opening in the diaphragm. On a level with the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, it passes beneath the aorta and joins the azygos major. Before passing beneath the aorta it usually communicates with the left superior intercostal vein. It receives five or six of the lower intercostal veins of the left side. None of these veins are provided with valves. The purpose of the azygos vein is to be supplemental to the inferior vena cava. The thoracic duct Thoracic 24) is a canal about eighteen inches long, through which the contents of the lacteal vessels from the DIAGRAM TO SHOW THE COURSE OF THE Intcstines aud tho absorbents from VENA AZYGOS AND THE THORACIC DUCT, ^j^^ lowcr Hmbs 3X6 couvcyed into the blood. These vessels converge to a general receptacle, termed ' receptaculum chyli; situated in front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. From this receptacle, the duct passes123 (ESOPHAGUS. through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum along the right side of the aorta. Near the third dorsal vertebra^ it passes under the oeso- phagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube, between it and the left subclavian artery, as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, where it describes a curve with the convexity upwards, and opens in front of the scalenus anticus into the back part of the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, so that its contents can only pass upwards. The duct is not much larger than a crow-quill; its walls are thin and transparent.^ The cahbre of the duct varies in size in different parts of its course ; it is large at the commencement, diminishes in the middle, and again enlarges towards the termination. ^ The ' oesophagus ' is that part of the alimentary canal (Esophagus. .? ^ -, r , , . which conveys the lood from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences about the fifth cervical vertebra, nearly opposite the cricoid cartilage; runs down first to the right side of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, then through the posterior media- stinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through a special opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly vertical: in the neck, it lies to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebi-a, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it perforates the diaphragm. The oesophagus, in the first part of its course, rests upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the third, fourth, and fifth inter- * It is right to state that the thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals. I have seen it of all sizes intermediate between a crow-quill and a goose-quill. It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite; instead of one, there may bo several terminal orifices. Instances have been observed in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischman, Leichen- oeffnungon, 1815). It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos (Miiller's Archives,PXEUMOGASTKIC IN THE CHEST. 124 costal vessels of the right side, and, lastly, lies in front, and slightly to the left side of the aorta. In front of it is the left bronchus ; and before it passes through the diaphragm it lies in close contact with the pericardium for nearly two inches: this fact accounts for the pain which is sometimes experienced in cases of pericarditis, during the passage of food. The oesophagus is surrounded by a nervous plexus, formed by the pneumogastric nerves, the left being in front and the right behind it. The CBSophagus is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid, the oesophageal branches of the aorta, and the coronaria ventriculi. It is supplied with nerves by the pneumogastric and the sympa- thetic. The 03sophagus is composed of three coats, an external or muscular, a middle or cellular, and an internal or mucous. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer of fibres. Both are of the non-striped variety. The longitudinal layer is particularly strong, and arranged all round the oesophagus so as to support the circular. The middle coat is composed of cellular tissue, and connects very loosely the muscular and mucous coats. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour, and considerable thickness, and in the contracted state of the oesophagus is arranged in longitudinal folds. It is lined by a very thick layer of scaly epithelium. In the submucous tissue are many small compound glands—esophageal griaiicZs—especially towards the lower end of the oesophagus. CoTirse and The right pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between branches of subclavian artery and vein, descends by the side of mogastric the trachea, then behind the root of the right lung to nerves. ^|^g posterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it divides into branches, which form a plexus (posterior oesophageal) upon the tube. The plexus then reunites into a single trunk, which passes into the abdomen through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The left pneumogastric descends into the chest between the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and behind the left brachio-cephalic vein. It then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and passes behind the root of the left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it also forms aPNEUMOGASTRIC IN THE CHEST. 125 plexus (anterior cesophageal). The branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the chest are as follow:— a. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent.—This nerve on the right side turns under the subclavian and the common carotid artery (p. 53); on the left, under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx. It enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It supplies with motor power all the muscles which act upon the rima glottidis, except the crico-thyroid (supplied by the external la- ryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve). h. Cardiac branches.—These are very small, and join the cardiac plexuses; the right arise from the right recurrent laryngeal and the right pneumogastric, close to the trachea; the left come from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. c. Pulmonale hra7iches.—These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number run behind the root of the lung, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. A few, forming the anterior pul- monary plexus, proceed over the front of the lung's root. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the sympathetic system. But the nerves of the lungs are very small, and cannot be traced far into their substance."^ d. (Esophageal plexus.—Below the root of the lung each pneumogastric nerve is subdivided so as to form an interlacement of nerves round the oesophagus (plexus guise). From this plexus numerous filaments supply the coats of the tube ; but the majority of them are collected into two nerves—the continuation of the left pneumogastric nerve lying in front of the oesophagus ; the con- tinuation of the right lying behind it. Both nerves pass through the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach. Having examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, now do so from the left. The left lung is to be turned out of its cavity and fastened by hooks towards the right side. After removing the pleura, we see the descending thoracic aorta, the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recurrent branch through it; also the first part of the * Upon this subject' see the beautiful plates of Scarpa.12G SYMPATHKTIC IN THE CHK8T. course of the left subclavian, covered externally by pleura. The pncumogastric nerve must be traced behind the root of the left lung to the oesophagus, and the oesophageal plexus of this side dissected. Lastly, notice the lesser vena azygos which crosses under the aorta about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra to join the vena azygos major. This portion of the sympathetic system is generally tion oftlw composed oi twelve gangua covered by the pleura; one Fj'mpathetic. ganglion being found over the head of each rib. Often there are only ten ganglia, in consequence of one or two of them 25. fusing together. The first thoracic ganglion is the largest. Each ganglion is connected by two branches with the corresponding spinal nerve. The nerves proceeding from the ganglia pass inwards to supply the thoracic and part of the abdominal viscera. The branches which proceed from the upper six ganglia are small and are distributed as follow (see the diagram):— a. Minute nerves from the first and second ganglia to the deep cardiac plexus. b. Minute nerves from the third and fourth ganglia to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches arising from the six lower ganglia uniteto formthreenerve^ —the great splanchnic, the lesser, and the smallest splanchnic nei^es. a. The great splanchnic nerve is generally formed by branches from the sixth to the tenth ganglia. They descend obliquely along the sides of DiAGUAM OF THE THORACIC ToiiTio:.- j bodics of thc dorsal vertebrae, and OF THE SYMPATHKriC.127 INTEKCOSTAL VESSELS. unite into a single nerve, which passes through the corresponding cms of the diaphragm, and joins the semilunar ganglion of the abdomen, sending also branches to the renal plexus. b. The lesser splancJmic nerve is commonly formed by branches from the tenth and the eleventh ganglia. It passes through the crus of the diaphragm to the renal plexus.* c. The smallest splanchnic nerve comes from the twelfth ganglion, passes through the crus of the diaphragm, aud terminates in the renal plexus. (This is not seen in the diagram.) Intercostal ^^^^ intercostal muscles occupy the intervals between n^uscles.'' Between each rib there are two layers of muscles which cross like the letter X. The external layer runs obliquely from behind, forwards, like the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The internal layer runs from before backwards like the internal oblique. Observe that a few fibres of the inner layer pass over one or even two ribs, and ter- minate upon a rib lower down. But neither of these layers extends all the way between the sternum and the spine: the outer layer, beginning at the spine, ceases at the cartilages of the ribs; the inner, commencing at the sternum, ceases at the angles of the ribs. The intercostal muscles present a curious intermixture of tendi- nous and fleshy fibres; and they are covered inside and outside the chest by a glistening fascia, to give greater protection to the intercostal spaces. The external intercostal muscles elevate the ribs, and are there- fore muscles of inspiration. The internal intercostal muscles de- press the ribs, and are therefore muscles of expiration. Intercostal ^J^f"^ ""'^ ^""^^""^ intercostal arteries on each side, arteries. J-^e two upper are supplied by the intercostal branch of the subclavian ; the remaining ten are furnished by the aorta: and since this vessel lies rather on the left side of the spme, the right intercostal arteries are longer than the left, a'he '^l^tlt:^^^^^^ ' ^^^^^^^'^^ ^--^ anatomist (Cr„4lhier),INTEUCOSTAL VESSELS. 128 upper iotercostal arteries from the aorta ascend obliquely to reach their intercostal spaces; the lower i-un more transversely. As they pass outwards, they are covered by the pleura and the sympa- thetic nerves; the right, in addition, pass behind the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major. Having reached the intercostal space, each artery divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch in direction and size appears to be the continuation of the common trunk. At first it runs along the middle of the intercostal space, lying upon the external intercostal muscle, and is separated from the cavity of the chest by the pleura and intercostal fascia. Here, therefore, it is liable to be injured by a wound in the back. But near the angle of the rib it passes between the intercostal muscles, and occupies the groove in the lower border of the rib above. Here it gives off a small branch, which runs for some distance along the upper border of the rib below, and is lost in the muscles. In some cases I have seen this branch as large as the intercostal itself, and situated so as to be directly exposed to injury in the operation of tapping the chest. In its course along the intercostal space, each artery sends branches to the intercostal muscles and the ribs. About midway between the sternum and the spine, each gives off a small branch, which accompanies the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal nerve. The continued trunk, gradually decreasing in size, be- comes very small towards the anterior part of the space, and is placed more in the middle of it. Those of the true intercostal spaces inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, and thoracic branches of the axillary; those of the false run between the layers of the abdominal muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. The posterior branch passes backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, to the muscles and skin of the back. Each sends an artery through the intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. On the right side the intercostal veins terminate in the vena azygos major; on the left, the lower seven or eight terminateINTEUCOSTAL NERVES. 12't) in the vena azygos minor, the remainder in the left superior intercostal vein. Intercostal . ^^^'^ ^''^ ^'^^^""^ ''^ number, and are the anterior nerves. divisions of the dorsal spinal nerves. Each dorsal nerve (like all the spinal nerves) arises from the spinal cord by two roots, an anterior or motor, and a posterior or sensi- tive. The sensitive root has a ganglion upon it. The two roots unite in the intervertebral foramen and form' a compound nerve. Pig. 26. After passing through the foramen, it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branches pass backwards between the transverse processes of the dor- sal vertebrae, and supply the muscles of the back. The anterior branches or the proper intercostal nerves pro- ceed along the intercostal spaces in company with, and immediately be- low, their corresponding arteries. Midway between the spine and the sternum, they give off lateral cu- taneous branches, which supply the skin over the scapula and the thorax. The intercostal nerves terminate in front, in the anterior cutaneous nerves; the upper six, coming through their respective intercostal spaces supply the skia over the chest; the six lower terminate m the front wall of the abdomen, near the linea alba Notice, that the first dorsal nerve ascends nearly perpen- dicularly over the neck of the first rib to form part of the brachial plexus. Before doing so, it sends a nerve to the first intercostal space. Ihis, as a rule, has no lateral cutaneous branch Intercostal absorbent S'^ancZs.-These are situated near the heads of the ribs; there are some between the layers of the inter- rsslrrlT" J''"'"''' their absorbent In I ; ^ ^^'^ '''^ ^h-^ -t--«tal glands enlarged and diseased in phthisis. K DIAGRAM OF A SPINAL NERVE.130 PULMONARY ARTERY. Bronchial and ^^^^^^ arteries, arising on the right side most fre- oesojhagear quently from the first aortic intercostal artery, and on arteries. £^q^ ^j^e concavity of the arch of the aorta, accompany the bronchial tube on its posterior aspect into the substance of the lung. Their distribution and office will be con- sidered with the anatomy of the lung. Other arteries proceed from the front of the descending aorta to ramify on the oesophagus, when they inosculate with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid and phrenic arteries. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung, and turn your attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. This vessel is about two inches in length, and conveys Pulmonary ^-^e impure blood from the heart to the lungs. It pro- ^''^'''^ ceeds from the right ventricle, crosses obliquely in front of the root of the aorta, and on the left side of that vessel divides into two branches, one for each lung. The right branch parses throu-h the arch of the aorta to the lung; the left is easily fol- lowed°to its lung by removing its investing layer of pericardium. Search should be made for a short fibrous cord which connects the commencement of the left pulmonary artery with the concavity of the arch of the aorta. This cord is the remains of the clucfMS arteriosus, a canal which in foBtal life conveyed blood from the pulmonary artery to the aorta. , r-, i Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta and dissect the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of the heart. Thus\ good view will be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of he trachea the right pulmonary artery is seen passing in front of the ripht bronchus. The superior vena cava is seen descending in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary arterj^ The vena azygos is also seen arching over the right bronchus and terminating m the vena cava. Notice, especially, a number of absorbent glands called ' bronchial; at the angle of bifurca ion 'f the traclea. The situation of these glands in the midst of so Lny tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlargement.K 2 CAKDIAC PLEXUS. 131 Cardiac plexus of nerves. The nerves of the heart are derived from the pneu mogastric and from the cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. A general description of them will suffice The cardiac nerves of the right side descend chiefly hehmd the arch of Kg. 27. BIAGHAM SHOWING CONSTITTIENTS OK THE HOOT OP EACH XXTNG, AKD THEIH HKXATIVE POSITION : AXSO THE POSZTIO. OP THE ™s OP THK H^T ^ the aorta; those of the left chiefly in front of the arch The «^^^>e,y^o^aZ and the deep cardiac plexus. The superficial one liesDISSECTION OF THE HEART. 132 more iu front of the aorta: the deep plexus is between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. From these plexuses the nerves proceed, in company with the coronary arteries, to the heart. Those which accompany the anterior coronary artery form the ' anterior coronary plexuH.' The ' posterior coronary plexus ' proceeds with its artery to the posterior part of the heart. But it is not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the sub- stance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they pre- sent minute ganglia in their course, which are presumed to preside over the rhythmical contractions of the heart.* Draw aside the margin of the right lung; divide the of the Sot'of superior vena cava above the vena azygos, and turn each lung. ^^^^-^ the lower part. Kemove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmonary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. It is composed of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, bronchus, bronchial vessels, anterior and posterior pulmonic plexus, and some lymphatics. The followincr is the disposition of the large vessels forming the root of the lunS In front are the two pulmonary veins: behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary artery; behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus :-0n the right side we find-1st the bronchus ; 2nd, the artery; 3rd, the veins. On the left, we hnd :- 1st, the artery; 2nd, the bronchus; 3rd, the veins, as shown m np-_. 27. DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. The heart is conical in form, and more or less convex on its external aspect It is situated obliquely in the chest, having its base directed upwards and to the right; its apex downwards and to the left. Notice the longitudinal grooves on the upper and * For the demonstration of the nerves of the heart, the student should see the b^uHM diLctions by Pettigrew in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons.DISSECTION OF THE HEART. I33 lower sm-faces of the heart, indicatiog the divisions of the ven- tricles, and the circular groove near the base, indicating the sei^a- ration between the ventricles and auricles. These grooves are occupied by the corouary vessels and by more or less fat. Weight. average weight of the heart is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female; but much depends upon the size and condition of the body gene- rally. As a rule, it may be stated that the heart gradually in- creases m length, breadth, and thickness, from childhood to age.* The heart is a double muscular organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a right and a left, separated by a septum. Each consists of an auricle and a ventricle, which communicate by a wide orifice : the right heart propels the blood through the luno-s and is called the pulmonic ; the left propels the blood through the body, and is called the systemic. These two hearts are not placed apart, because important advantages result from their union • by being enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the chest • and the action of their corresponding cavities being precisely syn- chronous, their fibres, mutually intermixing, contribute to their mutual support. The cavities of the heart should now be exammed in the order in which the blood circulates through them Eight auricle. ^ ^'^"^^^^ right side of the base of the heart, and forms a quadrangular cavity between the two ven^ cavffi, from which it receives the blood. From its front a small pouch projects towards the left, and overlaps the root of the aorta; this part is termed the appendix of the auricle and resembles a dog's ear in shape; unde nomen. To see the interior, make a horizontal incision through the anterior wall from the apex of the appendix, transversely across he cavity: from this make another upwards at right angles into the superior vena cava. Observe that the interior is lined by a polished membrane called the 'endocardium; and that it is everywhere smooth except in the appendix, where the mus ular the teeth of a comb, ' muscuh pectvnati: They radiate from the * Consult Bizot, M^n.. de la Soc. M&d. d'Obser. de Paris, ton., i. 1836.134 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. auricles to the edges of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Examine carefully the openings of the two venae cavae: they are not directly opposite to each other ; the superior is situated on a plane rather in front of the inferior, that the streams of blood may not meet- Fig. 28. Aurioulo-ventricular orifice , Fossa ovalis d^ening of the coronary vein Line of Eustachian valve DIAGEAM OF THE INTEKIOE OF THE EIGHT AXIEICLE. The inferior cava, after passing through the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, makes a slight curve to the left before it opens into the auricle, that the stream of its blood may be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of each vena cava is nearly circular, and surrounded by muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle. The internal wall of the auricle is formed by the 'septum auricularum: Upon this septum, above the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is an oval depression {fossa ovalis), bounded by a prominent border {cmnulus ovalis). This depression indicates the remains of the opening {foramen ovale) through which the auricles communicated in festal life. After birth this opening closes ; but if the closure is imperfect, the stream of dark blood in the right auricle mixes with the florid blood in the left, and occasions what is called 'morhus cceruleus: A valvular communication, however, not unfrequently exists between the auricles in this situation which is not attended with indications of this disease. Extending from the anterior margin of the vena cava inferior toDISSECTION OP THE HEART. 135 the anterioi- border of the fossa ovalis, is seen a thin fold of the lining membrane of the heart: it is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the Eustachian * valve. The direction of this valve is such that it directs the current of blood from the inferior cava towards the foramen ovale. It is a valve of considerable size in the foetus, and contains a few muscular fibres; but after birth it diminishes, being no longer required. To the left of the Eustachian valve, that is, between its remains and the auriculo-ventricular opening, is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is covered by a semicircular valve, called ' valvula The- hesii; to prevent regurgitation of the blood during the auricular contraction. Here and there upon the posterior wall of the auricle may be observed minute openings called 'foramina Thehesii:' they are the orifices of small veins returning blood from the sub- stance of the heart. Lastly, to the left, and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval in form, and will admit the passage of three fingers. This forms the right border and about two-thirds of Sfle! ^^^^^ surface of the heart. To examine its interior, a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior wall. The apex of this flap should be below : one cut along the right edge of the ventricle, the other along the line of the ventricular septum. Observe that the wall of the ventricle is much thicker than that of the auricle. The cavity of the ventricle is conical, with its base upwards and to the right. From its walls project bands of muscular fibres (columnse carneae) of various length and thickness, which cross each other in every direction; this muscular network is generally filled with coagulated blood. Of these columnse carnese there are three kinds : one stands out in relief from the ventricle; another is attached to the ventricle by their extremities only, the intermediate portion being free; a third, and by far the most important set, called ' musculi papillares,' is fixed by one extremity to the wall of the ventricle, while the other extremity gives attachment to the fine tendinous cords {cordw tenchneoi) which regulate the action of the tricuspid valve. The ♦ Eustachius, Libell. de vena sine pari.136 . DISSKCTION OF THK JIP:AUT. number of these nnisculi papillares is equal to the number of the chief divisions of the valve; consequently there are three in the ricrht and two in the left ventricle. Of those in the right ventricle, one proceeds from the septum. There are two openings in the right ventricle. One, the auriculo- ventricular, through which the blood passes from the auricle, is oval in form and placed at the base of the ventricle. It is sur- rounded by a ring of fibrous tissue, to which is attached the tri- cuspid valve. From the upper and front part of the ventricle, a smooth passage (' infundibulum' or ' conus arteriosus') leads to the opening of the pulmonary artery. It is situated to the left and in front of the auriculo-ventricular, and about three-fourths of an inch higher. This is situated at the right auriculo-ventricular Tricuspid opening, and consists of three principal triangular flaps, and besides these of intermediate flaps of smaller size. Like all the valves of the heart, it is formed by a fold of the lining membrane (' endocardium ') of the heart, strengthened by fibrous tissue, in which muscular fibres may be demonstrated. The base .of the valve is attached to the tendinous ring round the opening; its segments lying in the cavity of the right ventricle. Of its three principal flaps, the largest is so placed that when not m action, it partially covers the orifice of the pulmonary artery: another lies behind the anterior wall of the ventricle, and the third rests upon the septum ventriculorum. Observe the arrangement of the tendinous cords which regulate the action of the valve. First, they are all attached to the ven- tricular surface of the valve. Secondly, the tendinous cords pro- ceeding from a given papillary muscle are attached to the adjacent halves of two of the larger flaps, and to a smaller intermediate one ; consequently, when the ventricle contracts, and thepapdlary muscle also, the adjacent borders of the flaps will be approximate^d. Thirdlv, to insure the strength of every part of the valve the tendinous cords are inserted at three different _ points of it m straight lines; accordingly, they are divisible into three sets. Those of the first, which are three or four in number, are attachedDISSECTION OF THE HEART. to the base of the valve; those of the second, from four to six proceed to the middle of it; those of the third, which are the most numerous, are attached to its free mar^n.* Pulmonary or ^^^^^ ^^'^ three membranous folds situated at the senuhmar orifice of the pulmonary artery. Their convex borders are attached to the fibrous ring at the root of the artery; their free edges, which look upwards, present a festooned border, m the centre of which is a small cartilaginous body called the 'nocmus'ox ^corpus ArantU: The use of these bodies is obvious. Smce the valves are semilunar, when they fall together they would not exactly close the artery ; there would be a space of a triangular form left between them in the centre, just as there is when we put the thumb, fore, and middle fingers together. This space is filled up by these nodules, so that the closure becomes complete The valves are composed of a fold of the ' endocardvam; or hmng membrane of the heart, and contained between the folds ig a thm layer of fibrous tissue, which is prolonged from the ten- dinous nng at the orifice of the artery. This layer of fibrous tissue, however, reaches the free edge of the valve at three points only; namely, at the centre, or corpus Arantii, and at each extremity Between these points it stops short, and leaves a crescent-shaped portion of the valve thinner than the rest and consisting simply of endocardium. This crescent-shaped portion (called the ' lunula ') is not wholly without fibrous tissue, for a hin tendinous cord runs along its free edge, to give it additional strength to resist the impulse of the blood. Behind each of the valves the artery bulges and forms three slight dilatations called * The best mode of showing the action of the valve is to introduce a gla^s tube into h epuhnona^ artery, and then to pour water through it into the venSS unt 1 th would 0 her,^l beto mu. .^^^^^/^f of the cords at a time whe^ they erwise be too much slackc-ned by the contraction of the ventricle.■DISSECTION OF THE llEAUT. 138 the 'sinuses of Valsalva: These, we shall presently see, are more marked at the orifice of the aorta. The action of these valves is obvious. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the side of the artery, and offer no impediment to the current of blood; during its dilatation, the elasticity of the distended artery would force back the column of blood, but that the valves, being caught by the refluent blood, bag, and fall together so as to close the tube. The greater the pressure, the more accurate is the closure. The coats of the artery are very elasti* and yielding, while the valve, like the circumference to which it is attached, is quite unyielding ; conse- quently, when the artery is distended by the impulse of the blood, its wall is removed from the contact of the free margin of the valves, and these are the more readily caught by the retrograde motion of the blood. The force of the reflux is sustained by the tendinous part of the valves, and by the muscular wall of the ventricle (probably in a state of contraction), as shown by Mr. Savory. According to Haller, the valves are capable of sustaining a weight of sixty-three pounds before they give way. The thinner portions {lunula}) become placed so as to lie side by side, each one with that of the adjacent valve. This may be demonstrated by filling the artery with water. This is situated at the left side and posterior part of Left auricle. ^^^^ ^^^^^^ gomewhat smaller than the right auricle. It is quadrilateral and receives the four pul- monary veins, two on either side, which return the purified blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side, the auricular ap- pendage projects towards the right, curling over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior is smooth and flat, excepting in the appendix, which contains the ' musculi pectinati: Notice the openings of the four pulmonary veins. Upon the sep- tum between the auricles is a depression indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval, with its long axis nearly transverse, and in the adult will admit the passage of two fingers.139 DISSECTION or THE HEART. Left ventricle. '^^'^ occupies the left border, and forms the apex of " the heart. Oae third of it only is seen on the anterior surface, the rest being on its posterior. To examine the interior raise a triangular flap, with the apex below, from its front wall. Observe that it is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle so closely resembles that of the right that there is no necessity to describe it in detail. The auriciUo-ventricular valve consists of only two principal flaps: hence its name 'mitral' or 'bicuspid: The larger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auriculo-ventricular orifices. There are only two ' musculi papillares ;' one attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall of the ventricle. They are thicker and their ' cordm tendinece ' stronger than those of the right ventricle, but their arrangement is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ventricle, a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. This orifice is placed rather in front, and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening; but the two orifices are close together, and only separated by the larger flap of the mitral valve. The aortic orifice is guarded by three semilunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action are similar to those of the pulmonary artery. Their framework is proportionately stronger, consistently with the greater strength of the left ventricle, and the greater impulse of the blood. In the ' sinuses of Valsalva' are observed the orifices of the two coronary arteries. Fibrous rings. Openings between the auricles and ventricles, and also at the commencement of the aorta and pul- monary artery, we find fibrous rings. These rings serve as fixed points for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the heart, the tricuspid and the mitral valves. The rings on the left side are stronger than those on the right. Attachment ^'^^ fibrous rings at the arterial orifices present three of the great festoons with concavities directed upwards. These th^ventiicles. f^^^oons give attachment to the middle coat of the artery above, to the muscular fibres of the heart below, and mternally to the tendinous fibres of the valves. The vesselsDISSECTION OF XnE HEART. 140 are also connected to the heart by the serous layer of the peri- cardium, and by a continuation of the lining membrane (endo- cardium) of the ventricle. The heart is supplied with blood by the two coronary SerieT^ arteries, a right or posterior, and a left or anterior, ai enes. ^^^^ ^^.^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ above the semilunar valves, and at such a distance as always to admit the passage of blood : both run in the furrows between the ventricles and auricles: both are accompanied by branches of the coronary vein, and by the cardiac nerves. The anterior, or left coronary artery, the smaller of the two, arises from the left side of the aorta. It appears on the left of the pulmonary artery, and then runs down the inter-ventricular furrow on the anterior surface of the heart to the apex, where it inosculates with the posterior coronary. In this course, its prin- cipal branch turns to the left, along the furrow between the left ventricle and auricle, and then communicates at the back of the heart with a branch of the posterior coronary. The posterior or right coronary artery arises from the right side of the aorta, and passes down between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It turns to the right along the furrow between the right ventricle and auricle to the back of the heart, whence it inosculates with the horizontal branch of the left coronary. Besides this, it sends a branch down the inter- ventricular furrow at the back of the heart to the apex, where it communicates with the left coronary. Thus the coronary arteries form two circles about the heart: the one, horizontal, runs round the base of the heart, in the furrow between the auricles and ventricles. The other, perpen- dicular, runs in the furrow between the ventricles. The veins corresponding to the coronary arteries Coronary terminate in a single trunk—'the coronary sinus'— which opens into the right auricle between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of the vein is guarded by a valve, to prevent regurgitation of the blood.DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 141 AiTangement ^.^^ "^uscular fibres of the heart are of the striped ofthemus- variety, but' differ from ordinary striped muscular Shett. ^^'""S somewhat smaller, destitute of sarco- lemma, and branched. Most of the fibres are attached by both extremities to the fibrous rings of the heart. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of the ventricles. They consist of a superjicial layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer proper to each. The superjicial fibres run trans- versely across the auricles, and are most marked on the anterior surface; some pass into the septum. Of the deeper fibres, some run in circles chiefly round the auricular appendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short distance; others run over the auricles, and are attached in front and behind to the auriculo-ventricular rings. Of the ventricular fibres, some are common to both ventricles, others proper to each. The septum is formed principally by the fibres of the left. The superficial fibres take a more or less spiral course from the base towards the apex of the heart, where they coil round, pass into the interior of the ventricle, and form either the 'carnefe columns' or 'musculi papillares.' Most of these fibres are eventually inserted into the auriculo-ventricular rings. The circular fibres are chiefly found near the base of the ventricles, and passing round become attached to the rings at the base of the heart.* Eeduced to their simplest expression, the ventricles consist of two muscular sacs, enclosed in a third equally muscular. The same may be said of the auricles. Thickness of ''^^""^^^ thickness of the right auricle is about the cavities. ^^^^ > that of the left, one and a half. The measure must not be taken during the ' rigor mortis.' The average thickness of the right ventricle at its thickest part —I.e. the base—is about two lines : that of the left ventricle at Its thickest part-i.e. the middle-is about half an inch. In the lemale the average is less. fil^nelwh r ^'•^'=1'' ^» Todd's Cyclopedia.142 r<KTAL CIUCLLATIOX, Peculiarities "^'^^ lieart of the foetus differs from that of the adult of foetal in the following points:—1. The Eustachian valve is well developed in order to guide the current of blood from the vena cava inferior into the foramen ovale. 2. The Fig. 29. SCHEATE OF THE FCETAL CIRCULATION. foramen ovale is widely open. 3. The right and left pulmonary arteries are very much contracted, so as to admit very little bloodFCETAL CIRCULATJOX. to the lungs. 4. The ductus carteriosus (from the pulmonary artery to the aorta) is open. 5. The right and left ventricles are of equal thickness because they have equal work to do. Circulation of umbilical vein, iig. 29, bringing pure blood from the fetusplacenta, enters at the umbilicus, and passes to the under surface of the liver, where it sends off some small branches to the left lobe. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches: one, the smaller, termed the 'ductus venosus; passes straight to the inferior vena cava; the other or right divisioi joins the vena porta, and after ramifying in the liver, returns its blood through the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava. From the inferior vena cava, the blood enters the right auricle, and this stream (directed by the Eustachian valve) flows through the fora- men ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle it runs into e aorta, into the great vessels of the head and the upper limbs, which are thus supplied by almost pure blood. From the head and the upper limbs, the blood returns (impure) through the superior vena cava into the right auricle, and flows into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle it passes throuah the pulmonary artery, and the 'ductus arteriosus,' into the third part of the arch of the aorta; only a very small quantity of it gomg to the lungs. From the aorta part of the blood is distri- buted to the pelvis and lower extremities; and part is conveyed through the umbilical arteries to the placenta, where it becomes punned. The following changes take place in the circulation after birth 1. The umbilical vein becomes obliterated from the second to the fifth day after birth, and subsequently forms the round liga- ment of the liver. ^ 2. The ductus venosus also becomes closed about the same period 3. The foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus become completelv closed from the sixth to the tenth day. ^_ The pulmonary arteries enlarge and convey impure blood to lungs These organs during foetal life receive only a small quantity of blood from these arteries.144 STRUCTURE OK THE LUNGS. 5. The hypogastric arteries become obliterated from the fourth or fifth day after birth. STEUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. The lungs are very vascular, spongy organs, in which the blood is purified by exposure to atmospheric air. Their situation and shape have been already described (p. 119). We have now to examine their creneral structure. The lungs are composed of cartilaginous and membranous tubes, of which the successive subdivisions convey the air into closely- packed minute cells, called the 'air vesicles*,' of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins; of the bronchial vessels con- cerned in their nutrition ; of lymphatics and nerves. These com- ponent parts are united by areolar tissue, and covered externally by pleura. The point at which they respectively pass in and out is called the ' root' of the lung. The lungs are the lightest organs in the body, and float in water. When entirely deprived of air, they sink. This is observed in certain pathological conditions; e.g. when one lung is compressed by effusion into the chest, or rendered solid by inflammation. When an opening is made into the chest, the lung, Contractility ^jjid^ ^as in contact with the ribs, immediately recedes ° ^ from them, and, provided there be no adhesions, gra- dually contracts. If the lungs be artificially inflated, either in or out of the chest, we observe that, left to themselves, they spon- taneously expel a part of the air. This constant disposition to contract, in the living and the dead lung, is owing to the elastic tissue in the bronchial tubes and the air-cells ; but more especially to a layer of delicate elastic tissue on the surface of the lung, which has been described by some anatomists as a distinct coat, imder the name of the second or inner layer of the pleura.* The lungs are of a livid red or violet colour; they Colour. ^^^^^ present a mixture of tints, giving tiiem a marble- * In some animals, tho seal especially, the elasticity of this tissue is very strongly marked.145 STKUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. like appearance. This is not the natural colour of the organ, since it is produced in the act of dying. It depends upon the stagnation, of the venous blood, which the right ventricle still propels into the lungs, though respiration is failing. The tint varies in particular situations in proportion to the accumulation of the blood, and is always the deepest at the back of the lung. But the colour of the proper tissue of the lung apart frona the blood which it contains is pale and light grey. This colour is seldom seen except in the lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse hgemorrhage. Upon or near the surface of the lungs, numerous dark spots are observed, which do not depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and increase with age. The source "of these discolourations is not exactly known; but they are probably deposits of minute particles of carbonaceous matter which have been inhaled with the air. Trachea '^^^^ ^ partly membranous, partly cartilaginous tube, which proceeds from the larynx opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and divides about the third dorsal vertebra into two tubes, called the right and left bronchi, one for each lung. Its length is from four to four and a half inches. Its transverse diameter is about eight or ten lines in the adult, but it varies according to the age of the individual, and the natural volume of the lungs. It is kept permanently open by a series of cartilaginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round the anterior two-thirds of its circumference. These rings are deficient at the posterior part of the tube, where it is completed by fibrous membrane. This deficiency is for the pur- pose of allowing the trachea to expand or contract; and the membranous part of the tube is provided with transverse muscular fibres which can approximate the ends of the rings. Bronchi. bronchi differ in length, direction and diameter. The o^ight, shorter than the left, is about an inch in length, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have accidentally dropped into the trachea are moreSTRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 146 likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the stream of the air. " The left bronchus is about two inches in length, and descends more obliquely to its lung than the right. The cartilages of the trachea vary in number from sixteen to twenty; those of the right bronchus from six to eight; those of the left from nine to twelve. They form about two-thirds of a circle, and resemble a horse-shoe in form. The cartilage at the bifurcation of the trachea is shaped like the letter V; its angle projects into the centre of the main tube, and its sides belong one to each bronchus. The cartilages are connected, and covered on their outer and inner surfaces by a tough membrane, consisting of fibrous and yellow elastic tissue. This membrane is attached to the circum- ference of the cricoid cartilage, and is continued through the whole extent of the trachea and the bronchial tubes. Posteriorly, where the cartilages are deficient, it maintains the integrity of the tube ; in this situation, it consists of parallel and closely arranged lono-itudinal fibres, which are seated immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and raise it into folds. The elasticity of this structure admits of the elongation and contraction of the "trS/Ch Gel Between the fibrous and muscular layers of the Tracheal trachea are a large number of small mucous glands, which are most numerous on the posterior part of the tube In health, their secretion is clear, not tenacious, and just sufficient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis, they are the sources of the abundant viscid expectoration. After removing the fibrous membrane and the Muscular tracheal glands from the back of the trachea, we expose a thin stratum of non-striped muscular fibres, some of which extend transversely between the posterior free ends of the cartilaxres, while others are arranged in longitudmal bundles. By their contraction, they approximate the ends of the cartilages, and diminish the calibre of the tube. The mucous membrane lining the air-passages is a continuation from that of the larynx. Its colour in the natural state is nearlySTRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 147 white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in con- sequence of the accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. It is continued into the ultimate air-cells, where it becomes thinner and more transparent. Its surface is lined by a layer of epithe- lium of the ciliated kind, of which the vibratile movement is directed in such a way as to favour the expectoration of the mucus. The ciliated epithelium lining the mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells, where it is replaced by the squamous variety. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, corresponding to the lobes of the lung ; on the right side the lower branch sends a small division to the third lobe. The tubes diverge through the lung, and divide into branches, successively smaller and smaller, until they lead to the air-cells. These ramifications do not communicate with each other, they are like the branches of a tree ; hence when a bronchial tube is obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from the cells to which it leads. The several tissues, cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucous, and glandular, which collectively compose the air-passages, are not present in equal proportions throughout all their ramifications, but each is placed in greater or less amount where it is required. The cartilaginous rings, necessary to keep the larger bronchi per- manently open, become in the smaller tubes fewer and less regular in form: as the subdivisions of the tubes multiply, the cartilages consist of small pieces placed here and there,—they become less and less firm, and finally disappear altogether. The walls of the air-passages, when no longer traceable by the naked eye, are entirely membranous, being formed of fibrous, elastic, and muscular tissues. The surface of the healthy lung is marked by faint Uie'iung"^ white lines, which map it out into a number of angular spaces of various size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature. Whoever understands the structure of a single lobule, understands the struc- ture of the entire lung. The lobules are connected by fine areolar 1. 2STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 148 tissue, called * interlobular,' which is everywhere soft and elastic to allow the free expansion of the organ. The cells of this tissue have no communication with the air-vesicles unless the latter he ruptured by excessive straining, and then this intermediate tissue becomes inflated with air, and gives rise to ' interlobular emphy- sema.' When infiltrated with serum it constitutes 'oedema' of the lungs. Each lobule receives a small bronchial tube, which subdivides into smaller branches. Thus reduced in size, the walls of the tubes Fig. 30. Pig. 31. tJLTIMATE AlH-CELLS OF THE LUNG (FROM KOLLIKEE). MAGNIFIED TWENTY-FIVE TIMES no longer present traces of cartilaginous tissue, but are composed of a delicate elastic membrane upon which the capillaries ramify in a very minute network.* Each tube finally leads into an irregular passage (intercellular passage), from which proceed on all sides numerous dilatations : these are the air-cells, which vary from the ^^th. to the J-oth of an inch in diameter (fig. 31). The air-cells themselves present a number of shallow depressions, separated by somewhat prominent partitions, so that their interior has a * In phthisis the expectoration contains some of the debris of this elastic frame- work of the air-vesicles ; they can be seen under the mici-oscope. This is not a bad test of the character of the sputa.STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 149 honeycomb appearance, as shown in fig 31. The purpose of this is to increase the extent of surface upon which the capillaries may ramify. The structure of the minute air-cell of the human, lung is in all respects similar to the large respiratory sac of the reptile. The branches of the pulmonary artery subdivide with vessds"^^^ the bronchial tubes. Their ultimate ramifications spread out in such profusion over the air-cells, that a successfully injected lung appears a mass of the finest network of capillaries. This network is so close that the interstices are even narrower than the vessels, which are on an average about aVoo'^'i of an inch in diameter. The blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessel, which are such delicate structures that they oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. This purification is effected by the taking in of oxygen, and the elimination of carbonic acid and watery vapour. The most complete purification takes place in the single layer of capillaries between the folds of membrane projecting into the cell; for in this situation both sides of these vessels are ex- posed to the action of the air. The blood, circulating in steady streams through this capillary plexus, returns through the pulmo- nary veins. These, at first extremely minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches, which accompany those of the arteries, and finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the pure florid blood to the left auricle of the heart. From this outline of the anatomy of the lung, we see that the organ is so constructed as, in a given space, to allow the largest possible quantity of impure blood to be brought in communication with the largest possible quantity of atmospheric air. It is diffi- cult to conceive how any apparatus could be better adapted to the object in view. A stratum of blood of great superficial extent is exposed to an equal stratum of air, and these strata of contiguous fluids are contained in the interior of an organ so small as to lie within the compass of the chest.150 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. These are small arteries, two or more in number for xsroncuial i i mi • i . . arteries. ^^^'■^ ^""g- J-he right arises either from the first aortic intercostal or, conjointly with the left bronchial, from the concavity of the arch of the aorta. They enter the lung behind the divisions of the bronchi, which they accompany. They are the proper nutritive vessels of the organ. The old anatomists called them the ' vasa privata xmlmonum,'' to distinguish them from the 'vasa publica pulmonum'—namely, the pulmonary ai-teries. The former provide 'pro existentia pnvata pulmo- num;' the latter 'pro bono publico totius organismV The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways; some of their branches supply the coats of the air-passages and the large blood- vessels, others the interlobular tissue, and a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath the pleura. The right bronchial veins terminate in the vena azygos; the left, in the superior inter- costal vein. The nerves of the lung are derived from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. They enter with the bronchial tubes, forming a plexus in front and behind them (anterior and posterior pulmonary plexus). The absorbents of the lung form a network upon its surface and in the interlobular spaces. They all pass through the bron- chial glands. Of these, the lai-ger are situated about the bronchi near the root of the lung, particularly under the bifurcation of the trachea. DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. To obtain a view of the pharynx, cut through the trachea, ceso- phagus, and the great vessels of the neck, and then separate them from the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, to which they are loosely connected. The base of the skull should be sawn through between the vertebral column and the styloid processes of the temporal bones, so as to leave the pharynx and larynx attached to the anterior half of the section. Horsehair should be introduced through the mouth and oesophagus to distend the pharynx. The term •' pharynx ' is applied to that part of the alimentary151 DISSECTION OF THE PIIAKYNX. canal which receives the food after it has been masticated, and propels it downwards into the oesophagus. It is a funnel-shaped muscular bag, about four and a half inches in length. Its broad- est portion is situated opposite the os-hyoides. Its upper part is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; from thence it extends perpendicularly as low as the cricoid cartilage, or the level of the fifth cervical vertebra, where the continuation of it takes the name of ' oesophagus.' The bag is connected behind to the bodies of the cervical vertebrai by loose areolar tissue which never contains fat. In abscesses at the back of the pharynx, the matter is seated in this tissue. Parallel with and close to its sides run the internal carotid arteries. Its dimensions are not equal throughout. Its breadth at the upper part is just equal to that of the posterior openings of the nose ; here it is only required to transmit air: but it becomes much wider in the situation where it transmits the food—that is, at the back of the mouth : thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx,, therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading from its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the ' Eustachian tube,' through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.* Before the muscles of the pharynx can be examined, we must remove a layer of condensed cellular membrane, called by some anatomists the ' pharyngeal fascia.' It is a layer of deep cervical * Obsen-e that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gi-adual contraction of Its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the oesophagus. If such, a substance . become firmly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its .pressure on the trachea, alarmino- symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the esophagus on the left side of the neck. • r oDISSECTION OP THE PHARYNX. 152 fascia behind the pharynx, and must not be confounded with the proper pharyngeal 'aponeurosis,' which intervenes between its muscular and raucous walls. At the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, we find Fig. 32. Tensor palati. Levator palaii. Orbicularis oris . P tery go- m axillary ligament . . Mylo-hyoidfius Os-hyoides . . . Thyro-hyoid liga- ment .... Pomum Adanii , Cricoid cartilage. Trachea . . . Glosso-pharyngeal n. Stylo-pharyngeas. Superior larj-ngeal n. and a. External laryngeal n. Crico-thyroid. Inferior laryngeal n. OSsophagns. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. some absorbent glands. They sometimes enlarge, and form a per- ceptible tumour in the pharynx. In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles, notice153 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions. They constitute the 'pharyngeal venous plexus,' and terminate in the internal jugular. Constrictor They are three in number, and arranged so that they muscles of overlap each other—i.e. the inferior overlaps the the pharynx. ^^^^^^^ ^^xe middle the superior (fig. 32). They have the same attachments on both sides of the body; and the fibres from the right and left meet together, and are inserted in the mesial line, the insertion being marked by a white longitudinal line called the ' raphe.' The inferior constrictor arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Its fibres expand over the lower part of the pharynx. The superior fibres ascend ; the middle run transversely; the inferior descend, and are identified with the oesophagus. Be- neath its lower border the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the larynx. The middle constrictor anses from tlie upper edge of the greater cornu of the os-byoides, from its lesser cornu, and part of the stylo-hyoid ligament. Its fibres take different directions, so that with those of the opposite muscle they form a lozenge. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor ; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, and terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus. Between the middle and inferior constrictors, the superior laryngeal artery and nerve perforate the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the larynx. The siiperior constrictor arises from the hamular process of tlie sphenoid bone, and from the lower part of its internal ptery- goid plate; from the pterygo-maxillary ligament (which connects it with the buccinator); from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass backwards to the mesial line : some of them are inserted through the medium of the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process. The upper border of the superior constrictor presents on either154 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. side a free semikuiar edge with its concavity upwards, so that between it and the base of the skull a space is left in which the muscle is deficient (fig. 32). Here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in by its own aponeurosis. The space is called the ' sinus of Morgagni;' and in it, with a little dissection, we expose the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate : i.e. the levator palati, and the tensor palati. The Eustachian tube opens into the pharynx just here. Observe that the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx ; some of them mingle with those of the constrictors, but most of them are inserted into the posterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. Pharyngeal "^^^ pharyngeal aponeurosis intervenes between the membrane or muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. It aponeurosis. attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the points of the petrous portions of the temporal bones. It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its iipper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradually diminishes in thickness as it descends, and is finally lost on the oesophagus. Notice the number of mucous glands upon this aponeurosis, especially near the base of the skull and the Eustachian tube. These glands sometimes enlarge and occasion deafness from pressure on the tube. Openings Open the pharynx by a longitudinal incision, and into the observe the seven openings leading into it (fig. 33) :— pharynx. rpj^^ posterior openings of the nares. 2. On either side of them, near the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes : below the nares is the soft palate, with the uvula. 3. Below the soft palate is the communi- cation with the mouth, called the ' isthmus faucium.' On either side of this are two folds of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and posterior half-arches of the palate ; between them are the tonsils. Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to the base of the tongue by three folds of mucous membrane. 4. Below the epiglottis is the aperture of the larynx. 5. Lastly, is the opening into the oesophagus.DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. All these parts are lined by mucous membrane common to the entire tract of the respiratory passages and the alimentary canal. But this membrane presents characteristic dififerences in the dif- Fig. 33. Eustachian tube. Levator palati m. Tensor palati m. Hamular process. Posterior palatine arch. Tonsil. Anterior palatine arch. Epiglottis. Aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Opening into the larynx. Opening into the oesophagus VIEW OF THE PHAEYNX LAID OPEN FEOM BEHIND. ferent parts of these channels, according as they are intended as passages for air or for food. The mucous membrane of the pharynx above the velum palati, being intended to transmit air only, is very156 SOFT PALATE. delicate in its texture, and lined by ciliated epithelium like the rest of the air-passages. But opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane in every respect resembles that of the mouth, and is provided with squamous epithelium. At the back of the larynx the membrane is corrugated into folds, to allow the expansion of the pharynx during the passage of the food. The membrane is lubricated by a plentiful secretion from the numerous mucous glands which are situated in the submucous tissue throughout the whole extent of the pharynx, more particularly in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian tubes. Posterior These are two oval openings, each of which is about openings of an inch long, and half an inch in the short diameter, tlie nose. ^''hey are bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate bone ; they are separated from each other by the vomer. If you remove the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the roof of the nose, and the top of the pharynx,you will find beneath it much fibrous tissue. Hence polypi growing from these parts are generally of a fibrous nature. This name is given to the opening by which the Isthmus mouth communicates with the pharynx. It is bounded, fancium. i i i i <• above by the soft palate and uvula, below by the root ot the tongue, and on either side by the arches of the palate, enclosing the tonsils between them. This movable prolongation of the roof of the mouth Soft palate. attached to the posterior border of the hard palate. Inferiorly it is free, and from the middle hangs a pointed process called the ' uvula.' It constitutes an imperfect partition between the mouth and the posterior nares. Its upper or nasal surface is convex and continuous with the floor of the nose ; its lower surface is concave, in adaptation to the back of the tongue, and is marked in the middle by a ridge, indicating its original formation by tv,-o lateral halves. When the soft palate is at rest, it hangs obliquely downwards and backwards; but in swallowing, it is raised to the horizontal position by the levatores palati, comes into appositionSOFT PALATE. with the back of the pharynx, and thus prevents the food from returning thi'ough the nose. On making a perpendicular section through the soft palate, you see that the great bulk of it is made up of mucous glands, which lie thick on its under surface to lubricate the passage of the food. Above these glands we come upon the aponeurosis°of the palate, still higher, upon the two portions of the palato-pharyncreus,' separated by the fibres of the levator palati, and, lastly, upon the azygos uvuliB covered by the nasal mucous membrane. The soft palate is supplied with bloodbythe descendingpalatine branch of the mternal maxillary, and the ascending palatine branch of the ex- ternal maxillary. Its nerves are derived from the palatine branches of the second division of the fifth and from the glosso-pharyngeal. Uv^la. ""^"-^^^ projects from the middle of the soft palate, and gives the free edge of it the appearance of a double arch. It contains a number of mucous glands, and a small muscle, the 'azygos uvula?.' Its length varies in different individuals, and m the same person at different times, according to the state of its muscle. It occasionally becomes permanently elongated and causes considerable irritation, a tickle in the throat, and harassing cough When you have to remove a portion of it, cut off only the redundant mucous membrane. Arches of the J^^ ^^'^^^^ continued into the tongue and palate. pharynx by two folds of mucous membrane on each side enclosing muscular fibres. These are the anterior and posterior half arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior arch describes a curve from the base of the uvula to the side of the tongue. It IS well seen when the tongue is put out. The poster nor arch, commencing at the side of the uvula, curves along the free margin of the palate, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior arches, when the tongue is depressed can ?s s S .r°T^ ^^^^^ ^^--§-1- «P-e thus formed 0 listfn tt I' •'^''^ '''' "'^^^^ P-l-te is the .1 / "^^^«^ deglutition. The anterior (enclosing the palato-glossi^ muscles) contract so as to prevent the fooS158 SOFT PALATE. from coming back into the mouth: the posterior (enclosing the 'jpalato-'pliarynfiei'') contract like side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. In vomiting, food does sometimes escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this, considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles of "^^^^ muscles of the soft palate lie immediately under the soft the mucous membrane. There are five pairs—namely, palate. ^j^g 4 ]evatores palati,' the ' circumflexi or tensores palati,' the ' palato-glossi,' the ' palato-pharyngei,' and the ' azygos uvulae.' This last pair is sometimes described as a single muscle. This muscle arises from the apex of the petrous palTti°^ portion of the temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted along the upper surface of the soft palate, meeting those of its fellow in the middle line (fig. 33). Its action is to raise the soft palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. This muscle is situated between the internal ptery- Circumflexus . • , i /• 1 i -j or tensor goid m. and the mternal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid palati. -boj^g^ arises from the scaphoid fossa, and from the outer side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Thence it de- scends perpendicularly, ends in a tendon which turns round the hamular process, and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and is also connected to its fellow of the opposite side. It gives strength to the soft palate. A synovial membrane facilitates the play of the tendon round the hamular process. Its action is to draw down and tighten the soft palate, and, owing to its insertion into the palate bone, also to keep the Eustachian tube open. This consists of two thin bundles of muscular- fibres lWltor°' situated one on each side of the middle line. They uvulae. ^j,jgg fj.Q„^ aponeurosis of the palate and descend along the uvula nearly down to its extremity. These muscles are contained within the arches of ancTpallto-*"^ the soft palate. The palato-glossiis, within the an- pharyngeus. terior aich, proceeds from the anterior surface of the159 TONSILS. soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is lost in the stjdo-glossus muscle. The palato-'pharyngeus, within the posterior arch, arises from the posterior border of the soft palate by two origins separated by the levator palati. It descends to the side of the pharynx, and mixes with the fibres of the inferior constrictor and the stylo-pha- ryngeus. Tonsils '^^^ tonsils are situated at the entrance of the fauces, between the arches of the palate. Their use is to lubricate the fauces during the passage of the food. On their inner surface are visible from twelve to fifteen orifices leading into depressions which give the tonsil an appearance like the shell of an almond. Hence, as well as from their oval figure, they are called the ' amygdalce.^ These openings lead into small follicles in the substance of the tonsil, lined by mucous membrane. Their walls are thick, and formed by a layer of closed cells situated in the submucous tissue. The cells secrete a glairy fluid, and closely resemble 'Peyers" glands found in the intestines. The fluid, viscid and transparent, in the healthy state, is apt to become white and opaque in in- flammatory aff"ections of the tonsils, and occasionally accumulates in these superficial depressions, giving rise to the deceptive appear- ance of a small ulcer, or even a slough in the part. Concerning the relations of the tonsil, remember that it lies close to the inner side of the internal carotid artery. It is only separated from this vessel by the superior constrictor and the aponeurosis of the pharynx. Therefore, in removing a portion of the tonsil, or in opening an abscess near it, the point of the in- strument should never be directed outwards, but imuards towards the mesial line.* The tonsils are supplied with blood by the tonsillar branch of the external maxillary, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. This canal conveys air from the pharynx to the Jiustachian . „ r .^ -r. . tube. tympanum ot the ear. Its orifice is situated opposite the back part of the inferior spongy bone. The direc- * Cases are related by Portal and Bdclard, in which tlie carotid artery was punctured in opening an abscess in the tonsil. The result was immediately fatal hsemorrhage.160 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. tion of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards, and outwards ; it is an inch and a half long. The narrowest part is about the middle, and here its walls are in contact. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are composed of fibro-cartilage and fibrous membrane. The cartila- ginous end projects between the origins of the levator and the tensor palati, and gives attachment to some of their fibres. It is situated at the base of the skull, in the furrow between the petrous portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. It adheres closely to the bony furrow, as well as to the fibro- cartilage filling up the ' foramen lacerum medium.' The orifice is not trumpet-shaped, as usually described, but an elliptical slit about half an inch long and nearly perpendicular. The fibro- cartilage bounds it only on the inner and the upper part of the circumference ; the integrity of the canal externally is maintained by tough fibrous membrane. The Eustachian tube is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and covered by ciliated epithelium. Hence, inflammatory affections of the throat or tonsils are liable to be attended with deafness, from temporary obstruction of the tube. Mucous glands surround the orifice of the tube like a second tonsil. They are similar in nature and function to the glands beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the palate, and the pharynx. The hard palate, formed by the superior maxillary and palate bones, serves as a fulcrum for the tongue in the act of tasting, in mastication, in deglutition, and in the articulation of sounds. The tissue covering the bones is thick and close in texture, and firmly united to the asperities on the bones. But it is not everywhere of equal thickness. Along the raphe in the mesial line, it is much thinner than at the sides; for this reason, the hard palate is in this situation more prone to be perforated by syphilitic disease. A thick layer of glands (glandulw palatincv) is arranged in rows on either side of the hard palate. These glands become more numerous and larger towards the soft palate. Their orifices areMECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION, 161. visible to the naked eye. The mucous membrane has a very thick epithelial coat, which gives the white colour to the palate. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and the palatine nerves from the superior maxillary, may be traced along each side of the roof of the mouth. The ramifications of these arteries and nerves supply the soft as well as the hard palate. Mechanism With the anatomy of the parts fresh in your mind, of degluti- consider for a moment the mechanism of deglutition. The food duly masticated, is collected into a mass upon the back of the tongue ; the lower jaw is then closed to give a fixed point for the action of the muscles which raise the os-hyoides and larynx, and the food is carried back into the pharynx by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated and expanded to receive it.* Having reached the pharynx, the food is prevented from ascending into the nasal passages by the approximation of the posterior palatine arches, and the elevation of the soft palate, which thus forms a horizontal temporary roof to the pharynx; it is prevented from returning into the mouth by the pressure of the retracted tongue, and the contraction of the anterior palatine arches: it cannot enter the larynx, because its upper opening is closed and protected by the falling of the epiglottis: f consequently, being forcibly com- pressed by the constrictors of the pharynx, the food passes into the oesophagus. The food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course ; but most rapidly through the pharynx. The necessity of this is obvious, when we reflect that the air-tube must be closed while the food passes over it, and that the closure produces a temporary interruption to respiration. The progress of the food through the oesophagus is slow and gradual. * The larynx being also elevated and drawn forward, a greater space is thus left between it and the vertebrae for the distention of the pharynx. t This falling of the epiglottis is eflFected, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. A perpen- dicular section through all the parts concerned is necessary to show the working of this beautiful mechanism. MDISSECTION OF THE LAKYNX. 162 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Before commencing the dissection of the larynx, make yourself familiar with the cartilages which compose it, and the ligaments which connect them, as seen in a dry preparation. This bone, named from its resemblance to the Greek Os-hyoides. ]gj.|gj, Upsilon, is situated between the laryiix and the tongue, and serves for the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. It may be felt immediately below, and one inch and a half behind the symphysis of the jaw. It is divided into a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body is the thick central portion. Its anterior surface is convex, and has a median vertical ridge; on each side of which are depressions for the attachment of muscles; its posterior surface is smooth, concave, and corresponds to the epiglottis. The greater cornua (right and left) project backwards for about an inch and a half, with a slight inclination upwards, and terminate in blunt ends tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the body of the bone by fibro- cartilage; this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser cornua are connected, one on each side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little joint lined by synovial membrane, which admits of free motion. They are about the size of a barley-corn, and the stylo-hyoid ligaments are attached to them. The os-hyoides is connected to the thyroid cartilage by several ligaments, which contain a quantity of elastic tissue. There is:— 1. The thyro-hyoid membrane, which proceeds from the superior border of the thyroid cartilage to the Tipper and posterior part of the body of the hyoid bone. In front of this membrane there is, in the perfect larynx, a bursa, of which the use is to facilitate the play of the thyroid cartilage behind the os-hyoides. The central portion is stronger than the lateral, hence it is sometimes called the anterior thyro-hyoid ligament. Through the lateral part of this membrane the superior laryngeal nerve and artery enter the larynx. 2. The right and left lateral thyro-hyoid ligamentsDISSECTiON OF THE JiARYNX. 163 extend between the extremities of the greater corniia of the os- hyoides and the ascending cornua of the thyroid cartilage. They often contain a little nodule of cartilage. Cartiia.es of T-^" ^'^"^^"^"'^ the krynx is composed of five the larynx, cartilages Connected by joints and elastic ligaments, so that they can be moved upon each other by appropriate muscles ; the object of this motion being to act upon two elastic ligaments called the 'vocal cords,' upon which the voice essentially depends. Thyroid car ^ 7^'" ''^'^^'^^S^' ^^^l^d because it shields the beauti- tiiage. f^^l mechanism behind it,* consists of two lateral halves (alee) united at an acute angle in front, which forms the prominence termed ' Pomuvi AclamV This prominence pre^ sents a notch at its upper part, to allow it to play behind the os^ hyoides m deglutition. There is a bursa in front of it. I have seen this bursa as large as a pigeon's egg. The outer surface of each ala is marked by an obHque line passing downwards and for- wards from the upper cornu, which gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The inferior border is slightly arched in the middle, and on either side presents a convex prominence, which gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle The supe7'^or border is nearly horizontal. The posterior border IS nearly vertical, and gives insertion to the stylo-pharyngeus and pa ato-pharyngeus muscles. This border terminates above and below m round projections called the upper and lower cornua. I he upper is the longer; the lower articulates with the side of the cricoid cartilage. Cricoid . ^^^"^^^^g'^' earned from its resemblance to a cartilage. "^g't IS Situated below the thyroid. It is not of equal depth all round. It is narrow in front, where it may be felt about one quarter of an inch below the thyroid : from this part, the upper border gradually rises, so that, posteriorly, the interval left between the al« of the thyroid. In the middle of *0»peb,, a shield. t K,/.o., a ring.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico- arytenoidei postici. On its upper part are two oval slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the arytenoid cartilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico- thyroid ligament is attached. On its lower border, external to the depression for the crico-arytenoideus posticus, is an elevated facet which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid car- tilage. The lower border is connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The thyroid is connected to the cricoid cartilage in front by the crico-thyroid membrane, which consists chiefly of elastic tissue, and laterally by its two inferior horns. Between these two car- tilages there is a perfect joint on either side, provided with a syno- vial membrane, and secured by capsular ligaments. The object of this joint is to permit the approximation of the cartilages. These cartilages are situated, one on either side, at Arytenoid ^^^-^ cricoid. In the recent state, before the cartilages. ^ membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a ewer; * hence their name. Each is pyramidal with the apex upwards. The posterior surface of each is concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoid muscle: the anterior surface is convex and gives attachment to the thyro- arytenoideus and the false vocal cord: the internal surface is covered with mucous membrane and faces the corresjjonding sur- face of the opposite cartilage: the base presents an oval surface, which articulates with the cricoid cartilage. This joint has a very loose capsular and synovial membrane, which permits motion in all directions, liiie the first joint of the thumb. In front of the base is a tubercle (anterior tubercle), which gives attachment to the true vocal cord, and contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima glottidis. At the outer and back part of the base is another tubercle {external tubercle), into which certain muscles moving the cartilage are inserted; namely, the crico-arytenoideus * 'hjiiraiva, a ewer.165 DISSECTION or THE LARYNX. posticus and crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The apex of the cartilage is surmounted by one or two cartilaginous nodules, called ' corni- cula lain/ngis.^ This is a piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which projects Epiglottis. ^^^^ ^j^^ larynx like a valve. It is like a leaf in shape, with its stalk directed downwards. Its ordinary position is per- pendicular, leaving the glottis free for respiration ; but during the elevation of the larynx in deglutition it becomes horizontal, falls over the glottis, and prevents the entrance of food into the larynx. Understand that this falling of the epiglottis is accomplished, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. Its apex or lower part is attached by the tliyro-e'piglottidean ligament to the angle of the thyroid cartilage ; it is also connected by another ligament [hyo-epiglottidean) to the os-hyoides. The cartilages of the larynx resemble those of the ribs in struc- ture. In the young they are dense and elastic, but they have a tendency to ossify with age. In very old subjects, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are often completely ossified, and their interior presents an areolar tissue, containing oily matter, analogous to the spongy texture of the bones. The epiglottis is never ossified on account of its peculiar organisation, which resembles that of the ear and the nose. The larynx is now to be examined in its perfect condition. Mucous Except on the true vocal cords and the epiglottis, the membrane of mucous membrane of the larynx presents a wrinkled the larynx, appearance, and is loosely connected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of fibro-cellular tissue, which admits of its being pinched up into large folds. This tissue deserves notice from the rapidity with which it becomes the seat of serous effusion in acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produces' sudden and alarming symptoms of suffocation. From the root of the tongue to the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the membrane forms three folds (glosso-epiglottidean), one median, and two lateral, containing elastic tissue. From the epiglottis it is con- tinued backwards on either side to the apices of the arytenoidDISSECTION or THE LAKYNX. 1G6 cartilages, forming the ' aryteno-epiglottidean' folds which bound the entrance into the larynx. In the natural state it is of a pale rose colour, and covered by ciliated epithelium below the false vocal cords, above these by squamous epithelium. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the glottis during the passage of the food over it. The glottis is closed during the act of deglutition; but, if during this process, any one attempt to speak or laugh, the glottis opens, and allows the food to go, as it is termed, the wrong way. As soon as the foreign body touches the mucous membrane of the larynx, a spasmodic fit of coughing expels it. The sub-mucous tissue of the larynx is studded with mucous glands. An oblong mass of them lies in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and they are particularly numerous about the ' ventricles' of the larynx. The surface of the epiglottis towards the tongue is abundantly provided with them. Their ducts pass through the epiglottis, and may be recognised as minute openings on its laryn- geal aspect. This is the opening by which the larynx communi- opfni'ng'*of cates with the pharynx. Its outline is triangular, with the larynx. -^^ ^^^^ directed forwards. Anteriorly it is bounded by the epiglottis, laterally by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, pos- teriorly by the arytenoid cartilages. The apex presents the funnel- shape appearance from which the arytenoid cartilages derive their name. Inferior Jjook down into the larynx and observe the trian- openingof gular horizontal opening in the middle line; this is the t%]^T^' 'rima glottidis; or 'glottis: Its apex is directed glottidis. forwards, its base backwards. The anterior two-tnirds of this opening is bounded by the inferior or true vocal cords, the posterior third by the arytenoid cartilages. Above the true vocal cords are situated the superior or false vocal cords. On each side of the larynx, between the true and false vocal cords, is a small recess, the ventricle of the larynx, which leads into a pouch called ' sacculus lat-yngis: Pass the handle of the scalpel into one ofDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 167 these cavities, and observe that it leads into a cul-de-sac, which ascends for a short distance by the side of the thyroid cartilage. These pouches contain a large number of muciparous glands. The probable use of these cavities is to allow free space for the vibration of the vocal cords. The mucous membrane lining them is so sensitive that if a foreign body accidentally lodges there, the patient has no rest until it is expelled. These are the prominent folds which form the upper False vocal jjQundaries of the ventricles. They are called the ' false cords. , •' vocal cords' because they have little or nothing to do with the production of the voice. They are composed of elastic tissue, like the true vocal cords; but they also contain fatty tissue, which the true ones do not. These are two cords, composed of elastic tissue, ex- Cordae tending horizontally from the angle of the thyroid vocales. ° . cartilage to the base of each of the arytenoid. They diverge as they pass backwards ; the space between them is called the ' rima glottidis.' We shall presently see that, through the muscles which act upon the ary- tenoid cartilages, these cords can be approximated or removed from X^^^N—:—-Thyroid cartuage. each other; in other words, the //\\_^_—Truevooaioora. rima glottidis can be closed or di- lated. When sufficiently tight- ened, and brought parallel by means of certain muscles, the /J I \—-Arytenoid cartilage. cords are made to vibrate by the ( —-w^ \ EiasUc ugament. stream of the expired air, and thus , 3 i-L • SHAPE OF THE GXOTTIS IS produced the voice. when at best. What is the length of the true vocal cords ? In the adult male they measure about five-eighths of an inch ; in the female about four-eighths. In boys they are shorter; hence their peculiar voice. At puberty, the cords lengthen, and the voice breaks. The glottis admits of being dilated, contracted, and even com- pletely closed by its appropriate muscles. When at rest, its shapeDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 168 is triangular, as shown in fig. 34, where the arytenoid cartilages are cut th °ough on a level with the vocal cords. During every in- spiration, the glottis is dilated by the crico-arytenoidei postici; it then becomes spear-shaped (fig. 36). During expiration, it re- sumes its triangular shape : and this return to a state of rest is effected, not by muscular agency, but by two elastic ligaments shown in fig. 34, which draw the arytenoid cartilages together. Thus then 'the glottis, like the chest, is dilated by muscular tissue; like the chest, also, it is contracted by elastic tissue. In Fig. 35. Arytenoid cartilage Crico-arytcnoid joint {"f^''"'- ... I 0 Crico-thyroid joint . —i \fJ'^N, Thyroid cartilage. Thyroid cartilage depressed. True vocal cord. True vocal cord stretched. Crico-thyroid muscle. Cricoid cartilage. DIAGRAM SHO^-ING THE ACTIOK OF THE CRICO-THYBOID MUSCLE. speaking or singing, the glottis assumes what is called the vocal- ising position-that is, the opening becomes narrower and its edges nearly parallel. ,t_ , • There are nine muscles which act upon the 'riraa Setof glottidis:' four on each side and one in the middle. the larynx, rj^^^ fo^r pairs are—the crico-thyroidei, the crico-aryte- noidei postici, the crico-arytenoidei laterales, and the thyro-aryte- noidei. The single one is the arytenoideus. This muscle is situated on the front of the larynx. U. crico- It arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, ascends thyroideus. outwards, and is inserted into the inferior169 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. border of the thyroid. Its action is to tighten the vocal cords. It does this by depressing the thyroid cartilage : for this cartilage cannot be depressed without lengthening these cords, as shown by the dotted line, fig. 35. Its nerve is the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal. M. erico- "^^^^ muscle arises from the posterior part of the arj'tenoideus Cricoid cartilage: its fibres pass outwards and upwards posticus. j^^j i^^Q external tubercle of the ary- tenoid. Its action is to dilate the glottis. It does this by drawing the posterior tubercle of the arytenoid cartilage towards the Fig. 36. Vocal cord . . , Thyroid cartilage Cricoid cartilage Arytenoid cartUage Elastic ligament (crico- arytenoid; . , . . Thyro- arytenoideus. Orico-arytenoideus la- teralis. Ideal pivot. Crico-arytenoideus pos- ticias. GLOTTIS DILATED. MtTSCLES DLLA.TING IT EEPEESENTED WAVY. mesial line, and therefore the anterior tubercle (to which the vocal cord is attached) from the mesial line (fig. 36). In this movement the arytenoid cartilage rotates as upon a pivot, and acts as a lever of the first order ; the fulcrum or ideal pivot being intermediate between the power and the weight. This muscle dilates the glottis every time we inspire. Its nerve comes from the inferior laryngeal. M. aryte- "^^^^ muscle occupies the interval between the noideus. back of the arytenoid cartilages. The fibres pass across from one cartilage to the other. Most of them are transverse, but some cross like the letter X, running from theDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 170 base of the one to the apex of the other cartilage. Action.—By clasping the arytenoid cartilages, they assist in contracting the glottis. M crico- expose this muscle, cut away the ala of the arySdous thyroid cartilage. It arises from the side of the lateralis. cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the external tu- bercle of the base of the arytenoid. Action.—By drawing the arytenoid cartilages inwards, the muscles of opposite sides contract Fig. 37. Tocal cord Arytenoid cartilage Elastic ligament . Thyro-arytcnoldeuB. Crico-arytenoidens la- teralis. Crico-arytenoideus pos- .ticns. GXOTTIS CLOSED. MUSCLES CLOSING IT KEPEESENTED "WAVY. the glottis (fig. 37). Its nerve comes from the inferior laryngeal. This muscle arises from the angle of the thyroid frytS-' cartilage and the crico-thyroid membrane, runs hori- deus. zontally backwards, and is inserted into the base and anterior border of the arytenoid. Its fibres run parallel with the vocal cord, and some of them are directly inserted into it. Part of the muscle spreads out so as to form a floor for the ventricle ot the larynx, and is inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilao-e. Nerve from the inferior laryngeal. This muscle relaxes the vocal cord. More than this, it puts the lip of the glottis in the ' vocalising' position; in this position, the lips of the glottis are parallel, and the chink is reduced to the breadth of a shilling.* * M anjteno-epigloitideus.-Tlus consists of a few pale muscular fibres "idosed in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Some of them run near the free margin of the fold,171 DISSECTION OF THE LAKYNX. The following table shows the action of the several muscles which act upon the glottis :—• Crico-thyroidei . . . Stretch the Vocal Cords. Thyro-ai^tenoidei . . Eelax the Vocal Cords, and place them in the vocalising position. Crico-arytenoidei postici . Dilate the glottis. Crico-arytenoidei laterales . Draw together the arytenoid i cartilages Arytenoideus . . . Ditto Ditto Ditto close the glottis. The blood-vessels of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid passes through the thyro-hyoid membrane with the corresponding nerve, and divides into branches, which supply the muscles and the mucous membrane. The laryngeal branches of the inferior thyroid ascend behind the cricoid cartilage. A constant artery passes through the crico-thyroid membrane. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior (re- current) laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. The superior laryngeal, having passed through the thyro-hyoid membrane, divides into branches, distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. Its filaments spread out in various direc- tions ; some to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the epiglottis, and to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, others to the interior of the larynx and the vocal cords. A constant filament descends behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and communicates with the re- current. Its external laryngeal branch supplies the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 98). The inferior {recurrent) laryngeal nerve enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor, and ascends behind the joint between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. It supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. If the recurrent nerve be divided, or in any way injured, the muscles others are found lower down. These, being distributed over the yentricle of the larynx, can approximate its walls so as almost to obliterate the cavity. Hence the name '^mprcssor sacculi laryngis,'given to this part of the muscle by Mr. Hilton (Oruys Hospital Reports, vol. ii.), who first drew attention to it.172 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. moving the glottis become paralysed, but its sensibility remains imimpaired. When the nerve is compressed by a tumour—for instance, an aneurism of the arch of the aorta—the voice is changed to a whisper,* or even lost. Until the approach of puberty, there is no great dif- Difference ference in the relative size of the male and female Detween the . , . , n. xi.- male and larynx. The male larynx, withm two years alter this the female ^. "becomes nearly doubled in size; the female grows larynx. ' ■ • ■ ' larger, but to a less extent. The larynx of the adult male is in all proportions about one third larger than that of the adult female. The alse of the thyroid cartilage form a more acute angle in the male; hence the greater projection of the ' pomum Adami,' and the greater length of the vocal cords, in the male. . (Male . . . 8 lines. The average length of the vocal cords is in the | -p^^gi^ . . 6 „ ... , (Male . . . 12 lines. The average length of the glottis is in the . i-p^jj^j^ig . . 10 „ The size of the larynx does not necessarily follow the proportions of the general stature; it may be as large in a little person as in a tall one : this corresponds with what we know of the voice. This joint is provided with a capsule and synovial ro\d£L- membrane. There are, besides, two strong ligaments, lation. ^^^^ proceed from the cornu of the thyroid cartilage; the one upwards and backwards, the other downwards and forwards to the cricoid. Kemember that the only kind of motion permitted is vertical: and that this motion regulates the tension of the vocal cords. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a complex muscular organ, subservient to taste, speech, suction, mastication, and deglutition. It is connected by muscles (genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus) to the » Medical Gazette, Dec. 1843.DISSECTION OIT THE TONGUE. I73 symphysis of the jaw, to the os-hyoides, and to the styloid process of the temporal bone. To the soft palate it is connected by the anterior palatine arch (p. 157); and to the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane: in the middle fold is enclosed a layer of elastic tissue, called the ' glosso-epiglottidean' ligament. This pulls up the epiglottis when the tongue is put out of the mouth : hence the rule of never attempting to pass a tube into the oesopha- gus without pushing back the tongue; otherwise the tube would pass into the larynx. The posterior part or root of the tongue is connected to the hyoid bone by the hyo-glossi and the genio-hyo-glossi muscles; its anterior part or tip is free, and lies behind the lower incisor teeth. Its upper surface or dorsum is convex with a median groove which terminates posteriorly in a mucous follicle, the ' foramen ccBcum: On its under surface is a fold of mucous membrane called the 'frmnum linguce; which connects the tongue to the floor of the mouth. The surface of the tongue is covered with mucous membrane which consists of structures similar to those of the skin generally • that IS to say, it consists of a 'cutis,' or true skin with numerous projections, called ^papillce^ and of a thick layer of squamous epithelium. The cutis is much thinner than that of the skin • it affords insertion to some of the superficial muscular fibres of the tongue, and the blood-vessels form a close network in it before they pass into the papillse. Papilla, of . r^'""" '''' ^^"^ ^"''^■^^ ^""^ distinguished, accord- the tongue. ^^S to their Size and form, into three kinds, viz. 'papillce maximce or circumvallatcB; 'papillce fungiformoi: 'papillce fikfoi-mce: (Fig. 38.) ■> -J J The papillcB circumvcdlcctce vary in number from ei^ht to twelve. _ They are arranged at the back of the tongue in two rows, which converge like the branches of the letter V, with the apex backwai-ds, towards the so-called ' foramen c^cum.' Each of a cZll 1^'''' °f -ide, with Votr ^'f''',^''"^''^ sorrounded by a fossa: the fossa itself IS cucumscribed by an elevated ring.174 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Fig. 38. The papillce fungiformce, smaller and more numerous than the clrcumvallatce, are scattered chiefly over the sides and tip of the tongue, and sparingly over its upper surface. They vary in shape, some being cyliudrical, others having heads like mush- rooms ; whence their name. Near the apex of the tongue they may be distinguished during life from the other papillae by their redder colour. In scarlatina, and some ex- antheraatous fevers, these papillae become elongated, and of a bright red colour: as the fever subsides, their points acquire a brown- ish tint; giving rise to what is called ' the I strawberry tongue.' The papilla} filiformce are the smallest and most numerous. They are so closely a.ggregated that they give the tongue a velvet- like appearance. Their points are directed backwards, so that the tongue feels smooth, if the finger be passed over it from apex to base ; but rough, if in the contrary direction. Iliese papillae consist of small conical processes arranged for the most part in a series of lines running parallel to the two rows of the papillae circumvallatae. Each papilla is covered with a thick layer of epithelium, which is prolonged into a number of free hair- like processes. If the papillae be injected, and examined under the microscope, it is found that they are not simple elevations, like those of the skin, but that from them arise secondary papillae. The ' papillae ciicumvallatae' consist of an aggregation of smaller papilte arranged parallel to each other; and the papillae fungiformae consist of cen- tral stems from which minute secondary papillae shoot off. This elaborate structure escapes observation because it is buried beneath the epithelium.* Each secondary papilla receives a blood-vessel, which passes nearly to its apex, and returns in a loop-like manner. * See Bowman and Todd's ' Physiological Anatoinj-.' 1. Papillae circumvallatse. 2. Papilla fungiformse.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 175 Filaments of the gustatory nerve have been traced in the papillae ciroumvallatse and fungiformse, where they terminate in a minute plexus. Their mode of termination in the papillae filiformse has not been satisfactorily determined. All the papillae are covered with a layer of squamous or tessel- lated epithelium. That which covers the filiform is thicker than the rest, and with a microscope is seen to project from their sides Hke hair. The various kinds of ' fur' on the tongue consist of thickened and sodden epithelium. Eespecting the use of the papillae, it is probable that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy; and that they are instrumental in detecting different kinds of sensation, whether of taste or touch. From the density and arrangement of their epithelial coat, the filiform papillee give the surface of the tongue a roughness which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument by which they lay hold of their food. In the feline tribe, e.g. the lion and tiger, these papillse are so shai'p and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mammalia, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. "Numerous small glands are found in the submucous tissue at the root of the tongue. They are similar in structure and secretion to the tonsillar and palatine glands, so that there is a complete ring of glands round the isthmus faucium. Small round orifices upon their surface indicate the termination of their ducts. Other mucous glands, with ducts from one quarter to half an inch long, are situated in the muscular substance of the tongue. Gl.ndsbe Under surface of the apex of the tongue is neath the placed. On either side, a group of glands presumed to be apex of the salivary. Considering each group as one gland, observe that it is oblong, with the long diameter from seven to ten lines, parallel with the axis of the tongue. It lies near the mesial line, a little below the ranine artery, on the outer side of the branches of the gustatory nerve, under some of the fibres ofDISSECTION OF TJIE TONGUE. 176 the stylo-glossus. Four or five ducts proceed from each group, and terminate by separate orifices on the under surface of the tongue. Muscular '^^^ interior of the tongue is composed of muscular fibres of the fibre and of a small quantity of fat. The extrinsic tongue. muscles of the tongue have been described in the dis- section of the submaxillary region (p. 41). We have now to exa- mine its intriyisic muscles. For this purpose the mucous mem- brane must be removed from the top of the tongue. On dissection it will be found that the great bulk of the organ consists of fibres which proceed in a longitudinal direction, constituting the ' lin- guales' muscles. The lingualis of each half of the tongue is separated into a superior and inferior layer by some transverse fibres which pass nearly horizontally outwards from the ^fibrous septum ' of the tongue. The superior fibres run in a longitudinal direction under the mucous membrane of the dorsum, and are in- serted into the submucous tissue. The 'inferior fibres' (or ' ti^e lingualis''), more numerous than the preceding, are situated between the genio-hyo-glossus and the hyo-glossus, and proceed from the base to the apex of the tongue : these are readily exposed by dis- secting on the under surface of the tongue immediately on the outer surface of the genio-hyo-glossus. By the action of this mass of longitudinal fibres the tongue can be moved so as to reach any part of the mouth. Besides these longitudinal fibres, there are transverse fibres which arise from the fibrous septum. These pass outwards, running between the superior and inferior lingualis, and are inserted into the sides of the tongue. A considerable quantity of fat is found among these fibres. If we trace the genio-hyo-glos§i of opposite sides into the tongue, we find that some of their fibres ascend directly to the surface; others cross each other in the middle line, intersect the longitudinal fibres, and finally terminate upon the sides of the tongue. Lastly, the fibres of the stylo-giossus should be traced along the side of the tongue to the apex. In the mesial line, extending; from the base to the Fibrous / o septum of apex of the tongue, is found a vertical j^lane of fibrous tlie tongue, tissue, ' the fibrous septum ;' connected behind to theDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. jy^ body of the hyoid bone, and lost in front between the muscles In it is sometimes found a piece of fibro-cartilage, called 'nucleus fibrosus lingum; a feeble representative of the lingual bone in some of the lower animals. The nei-ves supplying the tongue should be followed into its substance. The hypoglossal nerve supplies all the muscles with motor power. The gustatory or lingual branch of the fifth pair is distributed to the mucous membrane about the apex and sides of the tongue, and endows it with most acute sensibility. Upon this nerve depends the sensation of all ordinary impressions, such as that of hardness, softness, heat, cold, and the like. The glosso- pharyngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane at the back and sides of the tongue. It is especially a nerve of taste. DISSECTION OP THE OEBIT. To expose the contents of the orbit, saw through the roof of the orbit as far back as the optic foramen, making one section on the, outer side and the other on the inner side of the roof. In doino- this, be careful not to injure the little pulley on the inner side fo? the superior oblique. The anterior fourth of the roof should be. left m situ, the remainder removed by bone forceps. The eyeball should be made tense by blowing air through a blow-pipe, passed well into the globe through the end of the optic nerve. Periosteum of;. The roof being removed, we expose the fibrous mem- the orbit. orane, which lines the walls of the orbit. It is a con- tinuation of the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure. Traced forwards, we find that at the margin of the orbit It divides into two layers, one of which is continuous with the periosteum of the forehead, the other forms the broad tarsal liga- ment which fixes the tarsal cartilage. Paseia of , The fascia of the orbit serves the same purpose that the orbit. tascia does m other parts. It provides the lachrymal gland, and each of the muscles, with a loose sheath ve Tn t '^^'^ ^^^^ ^^--g- -ar The eye. In this situation it passes from one rectus muscle to the178 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. other, so that their tendinous insertions into the globe are connected by it. From the insertion of the muscles it is reflected backwards over the globe of the eye, and the optic nerve, and separates the eye from the fat at the bottom of the orbit. Muscles and There are six muscles to move the eye; four of nerves of wliicb, running in a straight direction, are called the t le orbit. j recti,' and are arranged one above, one below, and one on each side of the globe. The remaining two are called from their direction, ' obliqui,'' one superior, the other inferior. There is also a muscle to raise the upper eyelid, termed ' levatwpalpebrce.' Fig. 39. Supra-or- bitol. Supra-tro- chlear. Infra-tro- chlear. DIAGRAM OF THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. The nei^es are : the optic, which passes through the optic foramen ; the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth, all of which pass through the sphenoidal fissiu-e. The third supplies all the muscles with motor power, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth, and the external rectus, which is supplied by the sixth. The ophthalmic division of the fifth divides into a frontal, lachrymal, and nasal branch. The orbit contains, also, a considerable quantity of soft fat, which forms a bed for the eye and prevents it from being pulled too far back by its muscles. Upon the quantity of this fat depends, in some measure, the difference in the prominence of the eyes. Its absurp-DISSECTION OF THE OKBIT. 179 tion in disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyes. The eye is separated from the fat by a fold of the orbital fascia, •which, like a ' tunica vaginalis,' enables the globe to roll with the greatest rapidity and precision. Lastly, the orbit contains the lachrymal gland. After the removal of the periosteum, and the fascia of the orbit, the following objects are seen. In the middle we observe the frontal nerve and artery, lying upon the levator palpebr^ ; on the inner side is the superior oblique muscle with its nerve (the 4th); on the outer side is the lachrymal gland with the lachrymal nexYe and artery. This is the largest of the three branches of the opb- nervef^ thalmic division of the fifth. It runs forwards upon the upper surface of the levator palpebras, on which it divides into two branches :— a. The supra-trochlear runs above the pulley of the superior oblique to the inner angle of the orbit, and divides into branches, which supply the skin of the upper eyelid, forehead, and nose. One or two very delicate filaments may be traced through the bone to the mucous membrane of the frontal sinuses.* b. The supra-orbital runs forwards to the supra-orbital notch, through which it ascends. It supplies the skin of the upper eye- lid, forehead, and scalp. This is the smallest of the three divisions of the ne^^^^^ ophthalmic. It runs along the outer side of the orbit with the*lachrymal artery, through the lachrymal gland, and is distributed to the upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are: 1, filaments to the lachrymal gland; 2, a malar, which traverses a canal in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek; 3, one or two nerves, which pass down to commu- nicate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the fifth. Fourth, or '^^^^ nerve enters the orbit above the other nerves nervus which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. It runs along the inner side of the frontal nerve, and enters * These filaments have been noticed by Bhimenbach, ' Dn Sinibus Frontal.'180 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. the orbital surface of the superior oblique, to which it is exclusively distributed. This gland is situated within the external angular gkndJ™*^ process of the frontal bone. It is about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper surface is convex, in adaptation to the roof of the orbit; its lower is concave, in adap- tation to the eyeball. The anterior part of the gland lies some- times detached from the rest, close to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered by the conjunctiva. The whole gland is kept in place by a capsule * formed by the fascia of the orbit. In structure it resembles the salivary glands. It consists of an aggregation of small lobes composed of smaller lobules, connected by fibro-cellular tissue. The excretory ducts, seven to ten in number, run parallel, and perforate the conjunctiva about a quarter of an inch above the edge of the tarsal cartilage (fig. 40). They are not easily discovered in the human eye, but in that of the horse or bullock they are large enough to admit a small probe. The secretion of the gland keeps the surface of the cornea constantly moist and polished ; but if dust, or any foreign substance, irritate the eye, the tears flow in abundance, and wash it off. All the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the inferior oblique, arise from the margin of the foramen opticum, and pass forwards, like ribands, to their insertions. , ^ This muscle arises from the roof of the orbit, im- Levator palpebrae mediately in front of the optic foramen. It gradually supenons. increases in breadth, and terminates in a broad, thin aponeurosis, which is inserted into the upper surface of the tarsal cartilage beneath the palpebral ligament. It is constantly in * This capsule, being a little stronger on the under surface of tlie ghind, is described and figured by Soemmerring as a distinct ligament, ' Icones Oculi Humani,' tab. rii.DISSECTION OF THE OKBIT. 181 action when the eyes are open, in order to counteract the ten- dency of the lids to fall. As sleep approaches, the muscle relaxes, the eyes feel heavy, and the lids close. Its nerve comes from the superior division of the third nerve, and enters it on its under aspect. This muscle arises from the inner side of the fora- Miperk)r! opticum. It runs along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley attached to the anterior and inner part of the roof of the orbit. From this pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards to the globe of the eye. It gradually expands, and is inserted into the outer and back part of the sclerotica, between the external and superior recti. The pulley is lined by a synovial membrane, which is continued upon the tendon. The action of this muscle is to roll the eye on its own axis. It is supplied by the fourth nerve, which enters the back part of its upper surface. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrfB should now be reflected from their middle, to expose the superior rectus muscle. These four muscles have a tendinous origin round Eecti iu r ,■■ ^ muscles. ^be toramen opticum, so that collectively they embrace the optic nerve. They diverge from each other, one above, one below, and one on either side of the optic nerve; and are named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and intei^ms. Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the opposite sides of the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch fi-ora the margin of the cornea (fig. 41). The external rectus not only arises from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has another origin from the lower margin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins pass the third nerve the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and the ophthalmic vein! The recti muscles enable us to direct the eye towards different points; hence the names given to them by Albinus—attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that by the smgle action of one, or the combined action of two, the eye can be turned towards any direction.182 DISSECTION OF THE OlllilT. The rectus superior is supplied by the upper division of the third nerve; the rectus internus, the rectus inferior and obliquus inferior, by the lower division. The rectus externus is supplied by the sixth. Follow the recti to the eye, in order to see the tendons by which they are inserted. Notice also the ' anterior ciliary arteries,' which run to the eye along the tendons. The congestion of these little Fig. 41. vessels occasions the red zone round the cornea in iritis. It has been already mentioned that the tendons are invested by a fascia, which passes from one to the other, form- ino" a loose tunic over the back of the eye. It is this fascia which resists the passage of the hook in the operation for the cure of squinting. Even after the com- plete division of the tendon, the eye may still be held in its faulty iNSEBTioN OF THE RECTI MUSCLES WITH posltiou, if thls tlssue, iustead of ANTEBIOB CILIABY ARTEEIES. ... r, j u possessmg its proper softness and pliancy, happen to have become contracted and unyielding. Under such circumstances it is necessary to divide it freely with the scissors. By removing the conjunctival coat of the eye, the tendons of the recti are soon exposed. The breadth and the precise situation of their insertion deserve attention in reference to the operation for strabismus. The breadth of their insertion is about three eighths of an inch, but the line of this insertion is not at all points equidistant from the cornea. The centre of the insertion is nearer to the cornea by about one line than either end. Taking the internal rectus, which has most frequently to be divided in strabismus, we find that the centre of its tendon is, upon an average, three lines only from the cornea, the lower part nearly five lines, and the upper four. It is, therefore, very possible that the lower part may be left undivided in the operation, being more183 DISSECTION OF THE OUniT. in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. The superior rectus must now be reflected : in doing so, observe the branch from the upper division of the third nerve, which supplies it and the levator palpebrse. After the removal of a quantity of fat, we expose the following objects:—1, the optic nerve; 2, the nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, all of which cross over the optic nerve from without inwards ; 3, the inferior part of the third nerve; 4, deeper towards the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated the ' ophthalmic or lenticular ' ganglion ; and 5, the sixth nerve entering the ocular aspect of the rectus externus. , This is one of the three divisions of the ophthalmic ^asal nerve. '■ branch of the fifth pair (p. 178). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses obliquely over the optic nerve towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the infra- trochlear branch, the nerve runs out of the orbit between the superior oblique and internal rectus, through the foramen orbi- tale anterius, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. However, it soon leaves the cranium through a slit near the ' crista galli,' and enters the nose. Here it sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum, and superior spongy bone; bat the main continuation of the nerve runs behind the nasal bone, becomes superficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular, is distributed to the skin of the ala and tip of the nose. The nasal nerve gives off the following branches in the orbit:—-- a. One or two slender filaments to the lenticular ganglion, forming its upper or long root. h. One or two long ciliai^ nerves. They run to the back of the globe of the eye, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supply the iris. c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs below the pulley of the superior oblique, where it communicates with the supra-trochlearDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 184 branch of the frontal nerve. It then divides into filaments, which supply the skin of the eyelids, the lachrymal sac, and the side of the nose. Having passed through the optic foramen, this nerve Optic nerve. pj.Qj,ggjjg forwards and a little outwards to the globe of the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It then expands to form the retina. The nerve is invested by a fibrous coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is sur- rounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. This artery arises from the internal carotid. It Ophthalmic enters the orbit through the optic foramen, outside the artery. Qpj-^c nerve; occasionally through the sphenoidal fis- sure. Its course is remarkably tortuous. Situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, it soon crosses over it, and runs along the inner side of the orbit, to inosculate with the internal angular artery (the terminal branch of the facial). Its branches arise in ihe following order:— • a. Lachrymal artery.—This bra.nch proceeds along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the .gland, it terminates in the upper eyelid. It anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries, and also with a branch from the arteria <"meningea media. b. Supra-orbital artery.—This branch runs forwards with the frontal nerve along the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the fore- head through the supra-orbital notch. c. Arteria centralis retina;.—This small branch enters the optic nerve, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. . d. Giliai-y arteries.-These branches proceed tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, to supply the choroid coat and the iris. They are sometimes called 'pos- terior ciliary; to distinguish them from others named ' anterior ciliary' (branches of the muscular arteries), which proceed with the tendons of the recti muscles, and enter the front part of the185 DISSECTION OF THE OliBlT. sclerotica. In inflammation of the iris the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of the anterior ■ciliary arteries. e. Ethmoidal arteries.—These branches are two in numher, the •anterior, the larger, passes through the anterior orbital foramen ■with the nasal nerve; the ^posterior enters the posterior orbital foramen. Both give ofif anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater, and also supply the mucous membrane of the nose. /. Mioscular arteries.—These are uncertain in their origin, and give off the anterior ciliary branches. g. Palpebral arteries.—These branches proceed from the lachry- mal, nasal, and supra-orbital arteries. A. Nasal artery.—This branch may be considered one of the terminal divisions of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye, and inosculates with the angular artery (ter- mination of the facial). It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. i. Frontal artery.—This is the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic. It emerges at the inner angle of the eye, runs upwards, and inosculates with the supra-orbital artery. This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a vwn'^^'°^^*^ communication with the frontal and angular veins. It runs backwards above the optic nerve in a straighter course than the artery, receives corresponding branches, and finally passes between the two origins of the external rectus, to terminate in the cavernous sinus. Ophthalmic ■^^•'^^ ganglion (g, p. 178), about the size of a pin's or lenticular head, is situated at the back of the orbit, between the ganglion. optic nerve and the external rectus. It receives a sensitive branch (long root) from the nasal nerve, which joins its posterior superior angle; a motor branch (short root) from the lower division of the third, which enters its posterior inferior angle; p-nd it also receives {sympathetic) filaments from the plexus round the internal carotid artery, which enter the ganglion between its long and short roots. The ganglion thus furnished vsdth motor, ^sensitive, and sympathetic root.s, gives off the ciliary nerves.186 DISSECTION OF TUE ORBIT. These, from ten to twelve in number, run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotica, and are distributed to the iris. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, we see that the iris must lose its power of motion when this nerve is paralysed. Just before it enters the sphenoidal fissure, the third Third nerve, j^gj-ve divides into two branches, both of which pass ^° ""^ ' between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrce. The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and then runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle. What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve ? falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immobility of the pupil. This nerve enters the orbit between the origins of motorTx-^^' the external rectus, and terminates in fine filaments, ternus. ^hich are exclusively distributed to the ocular surface of this muscle. Eespectiug the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth. This muscle arises by a flat tendon from the superior ^ohh^nl maxillary bone, near the lower part of the lachrymal muscle. groove. It runs outwards and backwards between the rectus inferior and the orbit, then curves upwards between the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and back part of the sclerotic coat, close to the tendon of the superior oblique. It is supplied by the lower division of the third n. The use of the oblique muscles is to rotate the eye 4fobiique -upon its antero-posterior axis, so that, however much muscles of the head be moved obliquely to one side or the other, the eye. image of the object may be always kept stationary upon one and the same point of the retina. This was first ex- plained by Hunter. He says—' When the head is moved towards ^187 SUPEIllOll MAXILLAUY NKRVE. the right shoulder, the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same effect.' * This muscle has been particularly described by Horner,t an American anatomist. To expose it, cut perpendicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and evert the inner halves towards the nose. After removing the mucous membrane, the muscle will be seen arising from the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It passes outwards and divides into two portions, which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is probable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of the ducts, so that they may absorb the tears at the inner angle of the eye. It is supplied by a small branch of the facial nerve. Orbital This is always very small, and is sometimes absent, branch of Jt comes from the trunk of the superior maxillary in the superior ,■■ i -n / t \ maxillary tne spheno-maxillary tossa (see diagram), enters the nerve. orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches. Of these, one, the temporal, after sending a branch of communication to the lachrymal nerve in the orbit, passes through a foramen in the malar bone to the temporal fossa. It then pierces the temporal aponeurosis an inch above the zygoma, and supplies the skin of the temple, joining the temporo- auricular branch of the inferior maxillary. The other branch, the malar {'subcutaneus malce^), ailso passes through a foramen in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek. Superior To trace this nerve and its branches, we must remove nen-e^Tnd '^"^^^ ^^^^ ^ expose the spheno- sphen'o-pala- maxillary fossa. tme ganglion. The Superior maxillary nerve is the second division of the fifth cerebral nerve. Proceeding from the Grasserian gan- * Observations on Certain Parts of the Animal Economy. t Philadelphia Journal, Nov. 1824. But this muscle was accuiately described by Rosenraiiller in his Handbuch der Anatomie. Leipzig, 1819.188 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. glion (fig. 42), it leaves the skull through the foramen rotundum, passes horizontally forwards across the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the infra-orbital canal with the corresponding artery, and finally emerges upon the face, through the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the levator labii superioris. The branches given ofif are: — a. The orbital branch already described (p. 187). 6. Two branches to the spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's), situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. c. Posterior dental branches, two or three. They descend along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, and divide into Fig. 42. Trunk of the fifth nerve . Gasserian gan- glion . . . Facial n. . . Chorda tjTn- pani . . . Submaxillary ganglion . Frontal, lachry- mal and nasal nn. Orbital branch. Infra-orbital n. Anterior dental n. Naso-palatine n. Palatine n. Gustatory n. DIAGRAM OF THE SDPEEIOB MAXILLARY NEBYE. 1. Spheno-palatine ganglion. 2. Otic ganglion. smaller branches, which pass through holes in the bone in company with minute arteries, and then run up the fangs of the molar teeth to supply the pulp. They also supply the gums, and the lining membrane of the antrum. d. Anterior dental branch.—This arises just before the nerve emerges from the infra-orbital foramen. It descends in a special canal in the anterior wall of the upper jaw, and gives filaments toSPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION, Igg the fangs of the first molar, canine, and incisor teeth. It also supplies the gums and the mucous lining of the antrum. e. The terminal branch, namely, the infra-orbital, was dissected with the face (p. 82). At this stage of the dissection, make a vertical incision rather on one side of the middle line of the skull, to expose the cavity of the nose. We shall thus be able to dissect the ' spheno-palatine ganglion' and its branches. Spheno-pala- , J^M^''^' ^'fj ^^^^ ^2), Called, after its discoverer, tine ganglion. ^^^ckeL s ganglion,' is deeply situated in the spheno- maxillary fossa, close to the outer side of the spheno- palatine foramen, immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. Its sensitive roots proceed from the superior maxillary; its motor root from the vidian branch of the facial; its sympathetic from the carotid plexus, which joins the vidian nerve before it enters the ganglion. Thus supplied, it fm-nishes branches to the mucous membrane and glands of the hard and soft palate, and to the back part of the nose. Meckel's ganglion gives off the following branches :— a. Branches to the palate.—To see these the mucous membrane must be removed from the back part of the nose; we shall then be able to trace the nerves through their bony canals. Their course is indicated by corresponding arteries. There are generally three of these nerves, called by names originally given to them by Meckel, anterior, middle, and posterior palatine. The anterior the large palatine nerve, descends through the posterior palatine canal to the roof of the mouth, and then runs forwards along the hard palate nearly to the gums of the incisor teeth ; but one or two branches proceed backwards to supply the soft palate. The middle palatine descends either in the same canal with the pre- ceding, or in a smaller one of its own, and terminates exclusively m the mucous membrane and glands of the soft palate. The pos- tenor palatme nerve may be traced in a special bony canal down to the soft palate, where it terminates in the mucous membrane and glands. One or two filaments pass into the uvula.^ posterior palatine nerve supplies the levator palati and the azygos uvxila, with motor190 SP H EX o-r- A r. AT IX E G AXf; 1.10 X. h. Spheno-palatine or 7iasal branches.—These, three or four m number, pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose. To see them clearly, the parts should have been steeped for some time in dilute nitric acid: afterwards, when well washed, these minute nerves may be easily recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. Most of them ramify upon the outer v/all of the nose and the spongy bones. One branch (fig. 42), originally called by Scarpa ' naso-'palatine,' traverses the roof of the nose, distributes filaments to the back part of the septum narium, and then pro- ceeds obliquely forwards along the septum to the foramen in- cisivum, through which it passes, and finally terminates in the palate behind the incisor teeth. According to Cloquet, the corresponding nerves of opposite sides unite at the foramen incisivum in a small ganglion which he calls the ' naso-palatine.'* c. Branches to the pharynx and Eustachian tube.—In parts prepared for the purpose we may sometimes trace minute fila- ments to the mucous membrane of the back of the nares, the Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinus. cl. Vidian branch.—This proceeds, from the posterior part of the ganglion, backwards through the vidian canal of the sphenoid bone, traverses the fibro-cartilage at the base of the skull, and here divides into two branches, fig. 43. One {the carotid) joins the sympathetic plexus about the internal carotid artery; the other (sometimes called the great petrosal) enters the cranium, runs under the Grasserian ganglion and the dura mater, in a small groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the ' hiatus Fallopii,' and joins the facial nerve. It is probable that the vidian nerve proceeds, not from, but to the ganglion, and that power. In this ^new of the subject the nerre is considered to be the continuation or terminal branch of the motor root of the ganglion, that, namely, derived from the facial. This opinion is supported by cases in which the uvula is stated to have been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the opposite facial nerve. However, we have not succeeded in tracing the nerve into those muscles. * Dissci't. sur les Odeurs et les Oiganes de I'Olfaction : Paris, 1816.OTIC GANGLION. 191 it is the medium through which motor filaments are conveyed to it. The otic ganglion was discovered and described by gUon^'"'" Arnold, a Grerman anatomist, in 1826.* ' It is situ- ated,' he says, ' on the inner side of the inferior max- illary division of the fifth pair, immediately below its exit through the foramen ovale. (See diagram, page 188.) Its inner surface is in contact with the circumflexus palati muscle and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and immediately behind it is the middle meningeal artery.' It is always of very small size. Eespecting its connections with other nerves, Arnold states that the otic ganglion derives filaments (of sensation) from the inferior maxillary, and also from the branch of this nerve, which goes to the internal pterygoid muscle. It also derives a slender filament from the temporo-auricular nerve. Its communication with the sympathetic is established by filaments which proceed from the * nervi molles ' round the middle meningeal artery. It communi- cates also with the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves by a branch commonly called the lesser 'petrosal nerve. This nerve passes backwards either through the foramen ovale or the foramen spinosum, or through a small hole between the two, and runs beneath the dura mater along a minute groove on the petrous bone (outside the great petrosal nerve). Here it divides into two filaments, one of which joins the facial nerve in the aqueductus Fallopii, the other joins the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyn- geal. These nerves are exceedingly difficult to trace, not only on account of their minute size, but also because they frequently run in canals in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The otic ganglion sends a branch to the tensor tympani and to the circumflexus palati muscles. * J. Arnold, Diss, inaiig. med. &c.: Heidelbergae, 1826.192 DISSECTION OF EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES OF SKULL. DISSECTION OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. In this dissection we propose to examine the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves in the jugular fossa, and the ganglia and nerves belonging to them in this part of their Fig. 43. DIAGRAM OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKtTLL. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Glosso-pharyngeal u. 3. Pneumogastric. 4. Spinal accessory. 5. Jacobson's or tympanic nerve, 6. Lesser petrosal. 7. Great petrosal branch, or Videan. 8. Branch to Eustachian tube. 9. Arnold's or auricular u. course. These are difficult to trace, and cannot be followed out with success unless the nerves have been previously hardened by 10. Spheno-palatine or Meckel's ganglion. 11. otic ganglion. 12. Chorda tympani. 13. Pharyngeal n. 14. Superior laryngeal n. 1.5. Jugular ganglion . g^,,,^.^^^^^^^, 16. Petrous ganghon) 17. Inferior ganglion 1 , lo o . ,. ^ of pneumogastric. 18. Superior ganglion'193 GANGLION OJb^ ANPERSCn. spirit, and the bones softened by acid. The first thing to be done is to remove the outer wall of the jugular fossa. This nerve passes through a separate tube of dura ^ngeal^'^^' ^^.ter in front of that for the other two nerves. Look- ing at it from the interior of the skull, we observe that it is situated immediately in front and rather to the inner side of the jugular fossa. In its passage through the fossa, the nerve presents two gan- glionic enlargements, named respectively the jugular and the 'petrous. The jugular ganglion (ganglion superius) has been particularly described by Miiller.* It is found upon the nerve immediately after its entrance into the canal of the dura mater, and is so small that its size does not in any direction exceed -Jjth of an inch. It occupies the outer side of the nerve, and does not implicate all its fibres. According to our observation, this ganglion is fre- quently absent. The petrous ganglion (called, after its discoverer, the ganglion of Andersch f) is situated upon the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, near the lower part of the jugular fossa. It is oval, and about J-th of an inch long. It is connected by filaments to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and it gives off the tympanic or Jacob- son's nerve.J This tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tym- panum, and terminates in several filaments. One traverses a bony canal to the plexus of sympathetic nerves round the carotid artery; a second goes to the fenestra ovalis; a third to the fenestra rotunda; a fourth is distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube; a fifth ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii ; a sixth takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the lesser petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the * Mcdicin. Zeitung, Berlin, 1833, No. 52. t Andersch, Fragm. descript. nerv. cardiac, 1791. X This nen-o, though commonly called Jacobson'fj, was fully described by Andersch. O194 POllTIO DURA. petrous bone to the otic ganglion. This tympanic branch is thus distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and it communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. Pneximo- "^^^^ nerve leaves the cranium with the nervus acces- gastric sorius, through a canal in the dura mater behind that nerve. ^-^^ glosso-pharyngeal.. At its entrance into the canal it is composed of a number of separate filaments; but in the foramen jugulare, these soon become imbedded in a small ganglion—the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric. This ganglion, first described by Arnold,* is about J^th of an inch in diameter. It is connected by filaments to the sympathetic, to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, to the spinal accessory and the facial nerves. But its most singular branch is one named by Arnold ' the auricular,'' because it is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and then proceeds through the substance of the bone to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it divides into two branches; one joins the facial nerve, the other passes to the outside of the head through a canal between the front of the mastoid process and the meatus auditorius, and is distributed to the cartilage of the ear, and the meatus auditorius. Immediately below this its first ganglion the pneumogastric nerve is joined by two branches from the nervus accessorius, and consequently becomes after this junction a compound nerve. The ganglion of the trunk, or inferior ganglion of this nerve below the base of the skull, has been already examined (p. 97). The portio dura or facial nerve, having arrived at Siroiigh the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, enters the temporal ' aqucductus FallopH.^ This is a tortuous canal ex- ^"'^^^ cavated through the substance of the temporal bone, and terminating at the stylo-mastoid foramen. When exposed throughout its whole course, we observe that the nerve proceeds * Der Kopftheil. dcs veget. Nerven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831. t Fallopius was a distinguished Italian anatomist and professor at Paris, 1551.DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 195 from the meatus internus for a short distance outwardly, then makes a sudden bend backwards along the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and, lastly, curving downwards at the back of the tympanum, it leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its branches in the temporal bone are:— a. A communication between the facial and the auditory nerve at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. h. The great 'petrosal nerve (vidian), which runs to the spheno- palatine ganglion (p. 192). c. The lesser petrosal nerve, which runs to the otic ganglion. d. Chorda tympani.—This nerve arises from the facial about Ith of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, ascends for a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity below the pyramid and close to the mem- brana tympani. It then runs forwards along the tympanum, across the handle of the malleus, to the fissura Griaseri, through which it emerges at the base of the skull, and joining the gustatory nerve, tinally proceeds to the submaxillary ganglion, and ends in the tongue. In its passage through the aqueductus Fallopii branches are distributed to the stapedius and laxator tympani muscles. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Presuming that the dissector is familiar with the bones com- posing the skeleton of the nose, we shall now describe, 1. The nasal cartilages ; 2, The general figure and arrangement of the nasal cavities; 3. The membrane which lines them; and, lastly, the distribution of the olfactory nerves. Cartila es ^^^^^^ °^ fibro-cartilage on either side assist in o{ the nil. forming the framework of the external nose ; and one in the centre completes the septum between the nasal fossae. There are two lateral cartilages, an upper and a lower. The upper, triangular in shape, is connected, superiorly, to the maro-in of the nasal and superior maxillary bones, anteriorly, to the carti- lage of the septum, and inferiorly, to the lower cartilage by means196 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. of a tough fibrous membrane. The lower is sometimes called the cartilage of the pinna. It is elongated, and curved upon itself in such a way as to form the boundary of the external opening of the nose. Superiorly, it is connected by fibrous membrane to the upper lateral cartilage; internally it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the upper part of the ' columna nasi;' posteriorly, it is attached by fibrous tissue to the superior maxillary bone : in this tissue, at the base of the ala, are usually found two or three nodules of cartilage, called ' cartilagines sesa- moidece: By their elasticity they keep the nostrils continually open, and restore them to their ordinary size whenever they have been expanded by muscular action. The cartilage of the septum is placed perpendicularly in the middle line : it may lean a little, however, to one side or the other, and in some instances it is perforated, so that the two nasal cavities communicate with each other. The cartilage is smooth and flat, and its outline is nearly triangular. The posterior border is received into a groove in the perpendicular plate of the eth- moid ; the anterior border is much thicker than the rest of the septum, and is connected, superiorly, with the nasal bones, and on either side with the lateral cartilages. The inferior border is attached to the vomer and the median ridge at the junction of the palatine processes of the superior maxillae. The muscles moving the nasal cartilages have been described with the dissection of the face (p. 72). A vertical section should be made through the right Interior of j^asal cavity, a little on the same side of the middle the nose. , i i -i • line, to expose the partly bony and partly cartilaginous partition of the nasal cavities {septum narium). Each nasal fossa is narrower above than below. The greatest perpendicular depth of each fossa is about the centre, and from this point the depth gradually lessens, both towards the anterior and the pos- terior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum: this narrowness in the transverse direction explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining membrane from a simple cold obstructs the passage of air.DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. I97 The nasal fossae are bounded by the following bones i—su^^e^-^- orly, by the nasal, the nasal spine of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid; inferiorly, by the horizontal plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; tnternally, is the smooth and flat septum formed by the perpen- dicular plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, and the cartilage, also by the nasal spine of the frontal, the rostrum of the sphenoid, and the median ridge of the superior maxillary and palate bones; externally, by the maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the paJate, the inferior turbinated bone, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. Meatus of , ^^^^ ^^""^ «asal cavity is divided by the the nose. turbmated bones into three compartments (meatus) of _ unequal size; and in these, are orifices leading to air- cells (smuses) in the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, and superfor max- examineT''* '°^P^^^^^°^« '^^^^^ be separately The superior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of tie nose. The pos enor ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells open into its anterior part by one wide communication. parent? " ^"P^^^^^- ''^^ -terior part IS a long narrow passage (infundibulum), which leads un wards to the frontal and the anterior ethmoMal cell. About" the middle is a small opening which leads into the antrum of the guTrb^tt th '''' T^'""' ^^^^^^^ ^-^^ regular, but m the recent state it is reduced nearly to the size of a cro^-quill by mucous membrane, so that a very'^^it le sw 1 ' 1T2 T:: " ^^^^^ -ifi- entirely ^^t^e^s^:^^^^^^^^ so To see all S J """^ o" »De side boV; these openmgs you „,ust raise the respective turbinated The inferior raeaU^ extends nearly along the whole length ofBIbSECTION OF THE NOSE. 198 the outer wall of the nose. By raising the lower turbinated bone, Ave observe, towards the front of the meatus, the tenniuatioa of the nasal duct, through Avhich the tears pass down from the lachr3'mal sac into the nose. This sac and duct we can now con- veniently examine. Lachrymal "^^^^ passage through which the tears are sac and conveyed from the lachrymal ducts into the nose (p. 70). uasalduct. i^j^^^ lachrymal sac occxipies the groove on the nasal side of the orbit, formed by the lachrymal and superior maxillary bones. The upper end is round and closed; the lower gradually contracts into the nasal duct, and opens into the inferior meatus. The sac is composed of a strong fibrous membrane, which adheres veiy closely to the bone, and is lined by mucous membrane. Its front siirface is covered by the tendo oculi and the fascia proceed- ing from it. The nasal duct is from half to three quarters of an inch in length, and is directed downwards and backwards. Its termina- tion is guarded by a valvular fold of mucous membrane ; conse- quently, when air is blown into the nasal passages while the nostrils are closed, the lachrymal sac does not become distended. The lachrymal sac and the nasal duct are lined with ciliated epi- thelium and the canaliculi with the squamous variety. Behind the inferior turbinated bone is the opening of the Eustachian tube (p. 159). Into this, as well as into the nasal duct, we ought to practice the introduction of a probe. The chief diffi- culty is to prevent the probe from slipping into the cul-de-sac between the tube and the back of the pharynx. This membrane lines the cavities of the nose and Mucous or . . J jT. Schneiderian the air-cells communicatmg with it, ana aaneres very membrane * ^j.^\y to the periosteum. Its continuity may be traced into the pharynx, the various sinuses, the orbits through the nasal ducts, and into the tympana and mastoid cells through the Eustachian tubes. Observe that at the lower border of the turbi- nated bones it is disposed in thick and looije folds. The mem- brane varies in thickness and vascularity in different parts of the * Schneider, De catarrhis. Wittenberg, 1660.DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 199 nasal cavities. Upon the lower half of the septum, and the lower turbinated bones it is much thicker than elsewhere, in consequence of a minute plexus of arteries and veins in the submucous tissue. In the sinuses, the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascular, and closely applied upon the periosteum. The great vascularity of the Schneiderian membrane is obviously intended to elevate the temperature of the inspired air, and to pour out a copious secretion which prevents the membrane from becoming too diy. Near the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillae, a squamous epithelium, like the skin, and a few small hairs (vihnssce). In the sinuses and all the lower regions of the nose, the epithelium is columnar, and provided with cilia; but in the upper part of the nose, where the sense of smell resides, we no longer find ciliated epithelium, but columnar; beneath which is a stratum of nucleated cells.* ■ Blood-vessels arteries of the nose are, the ethmoidal and of the interior nasal branches of the ophthalmic, and the nasal branch of the nose. „f ai, • / i ot the internal maxillary, which enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. The external nose is supplied by the arteria lateralis nasi. The veins of the nose correspond to the arteries. They com- municate with the veins within the cranium through foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, also through the oph- thalmic vein and the cavernous sinus. These communications explain the relief afforded by haemorrhage from the nose in cases of cerebral congestion. Olfactory The olfactoiy nerves, proceeding from each olfactory nerves. bulb, in number about twenty on either side, pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. In its passage each nerve is invested with a coat derived from the dura mater. They are divided into an inner, ^ middle, and an outer set. The inner traverse the grooves on the upper third of the septum. The middle supply the roof of tne nose. The outer pass through grooves in the upper and * Bowman and Todd's Physiolog. Anatom., cap. xvi.200 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. middle turbinated bones, and are lost in the mucous meml)rane on the convex surfaces of these bones.* The olfactory nerves descend between the mucous membrane and the periosteum, and break up into filaments which communicate freely with one another and form minute plexuses. Owing to the difficulty of tracing the ultimate filaments, the exact mode of termina- tion is at present undetermined. Microscopically, the olfactory fila- ments differ from the other cerebral nerves, in containing no white substance of Schwann, and in being finely granular and nucleated. The olfactory are nerves of special sense. The common sensi- bility of the mucous membrane of the nose is supplied by branches from the fifth pair of nerves; namely, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 178), the nasal branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 190), and the Vidian nerve. That the sense of smell is independent of the common sensibility of the nose is proved by experiment and by pathology. For instance, any disease affecting the olfactory nerve, even the inflammation of a common cold, im- pairs the sense of smell, whereas the common sensation of the part continues equally acute, and becomes even more so, as one may readily ascertain by introducing a foreign body into the nostril. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Those muscles of the back, namely, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, and rhomboidei, which are concerned in the movements of the upper extremity, will be examined in the dissection of the arm. These, therefore, having been removed, we proceed to examine two muscles, named, from their appearance, ^serrati,^ which extend from the spine to the ribs. . This muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. It posticus arises from the ligamentum nuchse,t the spines of the superior. j^^g^ cervica], and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, by * See the plates of Scarpa and Soemmerring. t The ligamentum nuchse is a rudiment of tlie great elastic ligament of quadrupeds (termed the pack-wax) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrae except the atlas ; other- wise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head.201 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. a sheet-like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle: the fibres run obliquely downwards and outwards, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Serratus ™^ muscle is situated beneath the latissimus dorsi. posticus It arises from the strong aponeurosis called ' vertebral infenor. aponeurosis; opposite the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae. It ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted by fleshy slips into the four lower ribs, external 'to their angles. The tendency of its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. Vertebral ^^^^^ shining aponeurosis which covers the aponei^osis. erector spinsB is called ' vertebral aponeurosis.' It is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the spines of the lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and sacral vertebrae. Its use is, not only to form a sheath for the erector spinfe, but to give origin to the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen. If you make a vertical incision through it and reflect it, you will see that on the outer side of the erector spina? it is inseparably connected with the tendinous attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree. The serratus posticus superior must now be reflected from its origin, and turned outwards to expose the following muscle. Splenius. ^ '"'■'^'^ «Pi^es of the five or six upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebra, and from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchse. The fibres ascend and divide mto two portions, named, according to their respective insertions sptemus capitis and splenius colli. ' a. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process, and the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone beneath the sterno- mastoid. h. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse.MUSCLE6 OF THE BACK. 202 The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertebraa towards its own side: so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion ' wry neck.' It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno- mastoid to be affected, considering that the appearance of the distortion is alike in either case. The splenius and serratus posticus inferior are to be detached from their origins; after reflecting the vertebral aponeurosis from its internal attachment the erector spinas is exposed. The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral groove on either side of the spine, is, coUectively, called ' erector spinae,' since it counteracts the tendency of the trunk to fall forwards. Observe that it is thickest and strongest at that part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support, namely, in the lumbar region; and that its thickness gradually decreases towards the top of the spine. It arises by tendinous fibres from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, the sacrum, and the spines of the lumbar vertebrse. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first as a single mass. Near the last rib, this mass divides into two; an outer, called the ' sacro-lumbalis;' an inner, the ' longissimus dorsV These two portions should be followed up the back : and there is no difficulty in doing so, because the division is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in which we observe the cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Tracing the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find that it baUs°'^^°^' fei'minates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the angles of the six lower ribs. By turning outwards the sacro-lumbalis, we observe MuBculus ^^Q^ continued upwards under the name of ' jJitts- accessorius. , '■ cuius accessorius ad sacro-lumhalem.' This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the five or six upper ribs.203 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. This is the cervical continuation of the musculus ascendens. accessonus. It arises by tendinous slips from the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the three or four cervical vertebrae. The longissimus dorsi (the inner portion of the erector muSrsi. spiiife) terminates in tendons which are inserted into the tubercles * at the root of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra9, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into the greater number of the ribs (varyiog from eight to eleven) close to their junction with the transverse processes. This is the cervical continuation of the longissimus Iransver- _i • tj. • i t ° ■j^-^'-u.lita salis coUi. arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebras, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebra. Trachelo- ^^-^^^ muscle, situated on the inner side of the pre- mastoid°' ceding, is the continuation" of the transversalis colli to the cranium. It arises from the transverse processes ot the fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal, and the articular processes of the three or four lower cervical vertebra, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the spienius.| * CaUed 'anapophyses ' by Professor Owen. skeUot°''jf° "7 transceBdental Bomenclature of the vertebrate l ot. 7^ ""^f^^^'^^'l' foUowing quotation, the plan upon which the muscles of the back are arranged:— x- r 'The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique; that is, they either pass vemcaUy downwards from spinous process to spinous process, &om rajophys d ano 7 T' " (Pleurapophyses), &c., or they extend obHqudy from diapophys.s to spme, or from diapophysis to pleurapophysis, &c. ^ to JLVbT f r '^""^"'^ °' P'*^"^^ °' longitudinal fibres aggregated te!^ °" P"^"*^ °^ tl^^ spines and pos- h d of t ill ^^'^T'?"-^ ^^"""^^^^ ^'S'^"^^"'^' posterior lonilis d^ir • sacro-lumbalisLd the ' The former, arising from the iliac crest, or from the pleurapophysis (rib) of the lulr? s'tse^^^^^^ (') tHe'aplL of^ttltunS lumbar nbs, close to the tendinous origins of the transversalis abdominis; (2.) the204 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Spinalis '^'^^^ ^ ^^^^ narrow muscle, situated close to the dorsi. ^ spines of the dorsal vertebrje, and apparently a part of the longissimiis dorsi. It arises by tendinous slips from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebraB, and is inserted by little tendons into the spines of the SIX or eight upper dorsal vertebra?. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. Complexus. '^^^^ powerful muscle arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the three or four upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras. It is inserted between the two' curved lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally tendinous tissue.* The muscle is perforated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occi- pital), third, and fourth cervical nerves. Its action is to maintain the head erect. Cut transversely through the middle of the complexus, and angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs ; (3.) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs, and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical vertebra; and (4.) through the medium of the cervicalis ascendens, into the pleura- pophysial elements of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra. In other words, the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cervical vertebra. ' The longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is in- serted (1.) into the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2.) into the diapophyses of aU the dorsal vertebrae, near the origin of the levatores costarum; (3.) through the medium of the transversalis colli into the diapophyses of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae; and (4.) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element of a transverse process possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend from diapophysis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal vertebra.'—Homologies of the Human Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 75. * The inner border of the complexus is described by some anatomists as a separate muscle, under the name of 'biventer cervicis,' simply because it consists of two muscular portions united by an intermediate tendon.MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 205 reflect it to see the 'arteria cervicalis profunda' (p. 60), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Transrerso "^^^^ muscle which ]ies in the vertebral spinalis. groove after the reflection of the complexus and the erector spinse. It consists of a series of fibres which extend from the transverse and articular processes to the spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebrje, and is usually divided into the ' semispinalis dorsi' and ' semispinalis colli: a. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra, from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the four upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrae. 6. The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and the articular processes of the four lower cervical, and is inserted into the spines of the axis and the three or four succeeding vertebra. Now reflect part of the semispinalis dorsi in order to expose the 'multifidus spince: This may be considered a part of the pre- ceding muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spmes and transverse processes of the vertebra from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. They aHse by tendinous slips from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical re-^ion. They all a^scend obliquely, and are inserted into the spines and lamina of all the vertebra excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length ; some extend only from vertebra to vertebra, while others extend between one, two, or even three vertebrae.* The action of these oblique muscles' is not only to assist in * Beneath the multifidus spinas we find, in the dorsal region of the spine onlv eleven httle flat nxnscles, called by Theile (Miiller's Archives f Anat. &c , ?839) w£ Ibove S "°'^77-^f''^to the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra above. These muscles form but a part of the multifidus spin«.MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 206 maintaining the trunk erect, but to bend the spine to one or the other side. ^ ^ These little muscles arise from the apices of the costarum. transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and are imerted into the rib below. The direction of their fibres corresponds v^^ith that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles. They are muscles of inspiration. The muscles extend between the spines of contiguous Interspinales. , , rni ^ ■ • i i • i. ^ vertebrae. They are arranged in pairs, and only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are the most mov- able. In the cervical region they pass between the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In the dorsal they are found between the spines of the first and second, and between those of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In the lumbar, between the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. These muscles extend between the transverse pro- wsales.^^ cesses in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the neck they are arranged in pairs, like the interspinales, and the corresponding cervical nerve separates one from the other. In the loins they are four in number, and are arranged singly. We have next to examine the muscles concerned in the movements of the head upon the first and second cervical vertebrae This is a largely developed interspinal muscle. It clpfds arises by a small tendon from the well-marked spine posticus of the second cervical vertebra, and, expanding con- major, siderably, is inserted below the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone; in other words, into the spine of the occi- pital vertebra. These two recti muscles, as they ascend to their insertions, diverge and leave an interval between them in which are found the recti capitis postici minores. ^ ^ This is also an interspinal muscle, but smaller than pitis posticus the preceding. Arising from the feebly developed minor. spine of the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the foramen magnum. The action of the two preceding muscles is to raise the head.MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 207 Obliqnus This arises from the spine of the second vertebra, inferior. ^nserted into the transverse process of the first. Its action is to rotate the first upon the second vertebra • in other words, to turn the head round. This muscle arises from the transverse process of the s^ipS ^^^^ vertebra, and ascending obliquely inwards is in- serted in the interval between the curved ridges of the occiput. Its action is to draw the occiput towards the spine. Observe that the obliqui and recti muscles of one side form the sides of a triangle, in which we find the branches of the suboccipital or first cervical nerve, the vertebral artery, and the arch of the atlas. Eectascapi- ^^'^ muscle extends between the transverse tis lateraUs. process of the first vertebra and the eminentia juqu- laris of the occiput; but since this eminence is the transverse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle must be considered as an intertransverse one. Nerves of posterior branches of the spinal nerves supply the back. the muscles and skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebra, and divide into external and internal branches. The general'plan upon which these nerves are arranged is the same throughout the whole length of the spine; but since there are certain peculiarities deservmg of notice in particular situations, we must examine each region separately. Ceryical The posterior division of the first cervical nerve (the region. Suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and divides into branches which supply the recti and obHqui muscles concerned in the movement of the head upon the first two vertebras. It sometimes gives off a cutaneous branch which accompanies the occipital artery, and is distributed to the skin of the back of the scalp. The posterior branch (the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series, and emerges between the arches ot the atlas and axis. It turns upwards beneath the inferior obhque muscles, passes through the complexus, and runs with the occipital artery to the back of the scalp.MUSCLES OF THE IJACK. _ Ihe posterior divisions of the six lower cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external are small and terminate in the splenitis, and the continuation of the erector spinae, VIZ., the trachelo-mastoid, the transversalis colli, and the cervicaUs ascendens. The internal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebrjB ; those of the third, fourth and fifth he between the complexus and the semispinalis,* and after supplying the muscles terminate in the integument; those of the sixth seventh, and eighth lie between the semispinalis and the multifidus spinas, to which they are distributed. Dorsal posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this region. region come out between the transverse processes and the tendons attached to them. They soon divide into extei-nal and %nternal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the sacro-lumbalis and the longis- s-imus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above down- wards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinae and the levatores costarum ; the rest, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine between the semispinalis dorsi and the multifidus spintB. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. Lumbar general arrangement of the nerves in this region region. resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches, after supplying the erector spina?, become cutaneous and terminate in the skin over the buttock. The internal branches supply the multifidus spinae. Sacral '^^^ posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this regTra. ^''^ '^"^all. With the exception of the last, they come out of the spinal canal through the foramina in # The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally con- nected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists.209 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide inta external and internal branches. The internal terminate in the multifidus spinas; the external become cutaneous and supply the skin of the gluteal region. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the integument. The coccygeal nerve is exceedingly small, and, after joining a small branch from the last sacral, terminates in the skin.* Vessels of vessels which supply the back are:—1. Small theTacL branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar ai-teries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck ; one, larger than the rest (called arteria princeps cervicis), descends beneath the complexus, and in some subjects inosculates with the deep cervical artery, and with small branches from the vertebral. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first in- tercostal artery. It passes backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib: it then ascends between the complexus and the semispinalis colli. T:\ieposterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. Each sends a small branch into the spinal canal. The veins correspond to the arteries. Pra-yertebral *° examine three muscles situated in muscles. ^ont of the Spine; namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus mmor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter a special dissection should be made, before the head is removed from the first vertebra. Longus colli. T^i'^ muscle is situated in front of the spine and extends fi-om the third dorsal to the first cervical vertebra. For convenience of description it is divided into thr. ree * The branching of the posterior divisions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Mr. Ellis, Med. Gazette, Feb. 10, 1843210 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. sets of fibres, of which one extends longitudinalbj from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the two others extend ob- liquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebrae. The longitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the t wo or three upper dorsal and the two lower cervical vertebrae and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The superior oblique portion, arising from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebra, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front pai t or body of the first cervical vertebra. The inferior oblique portion proceeds from the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The action of this muscle, taken as a whole, must be to bend the cervical region of the spine. Its nerves come from the deep cervical and brachial plexuses. This muscle arises from the anterior tubercles of fn\?cusmajS. transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. This muscle arises from the root of the transverse Rectus capitis rxui^j. -i ii ^ ■ • anticus minor. Process 01 the farst cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, nearer to the foramen magnum than the preceding muscle. The action of the recti muscles is to bend the head forwards. They are supplied with nerves from the deep cervical plexus. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae are connected by their intervertebral fibro-carti- lages, by ligaments in front of and behind their bodies, and by ligaments which extend between their arches and their spines. Their articular processes have capsular ligaments, and synovial membranes.LIGAMENTS Or THE SPINE. 211 This is a strong band of longitudinal fibres which common extends along the front of the bodies of the vertebrae ligament. ^^.^j^ ^xis to the sacrum. The fibres are not all of equal length. The more superficial extend from one vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it; those a little deeper pass from one vertebra to the second or third below it; while the deepest of all proceed from vertebra to vertebra. The ligament becomes broader and stronger in proportion to the size of the vertebrae. By making transverse incisions through it in different situations, we observe that its fibres are more firmly adherent to the intervertebral cartilages, and to the borders of the vertebrae, than to the middle of the bones. ^^^^ These bands of ligamentous fibres fill up the intervals spinous between the spines of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, ligaments. They are the most marked in the lumbar region. Those fibres which connect the apices of the spines, being stronger than the rest, are described as separate ligaments rmder the name of supraspinous. Their use is to limit the flexion of the spine. These are called, on account of their colour, ligamenta hltwem^^ sub/lava.—To obtain a good view of them, the arches the arches of the vertebrae should be removed with a saw. They tebra P^^^ between the arches of the contiguous vertebras, from the axis to the sacrum; none existing between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and axis. They are composed of yellow elastic tissue, and their strength increases with the size of the vertebrae. This elasticity answers a double pur- pose : it not only permits the spine to bend forwards, but materi- ally assists in restoring it to its curve of rest. They economise muscular force, like the ligamentum nuchas in animals. Posterior "^^^^ extends longitudinally, in a similar manner to common the anterior common Hgament, along the posteiior sur- ligament. £^^g ^-^^ bodies of the vertebrae, from the occiput to the sacrum. Interverte- "^^is substance, placed between the bodies of the bral fibro- vertebrae, is by far the strongest bond of connection cartilage. between them, and fulfils most important purposes in r 2LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 212 the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. To see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage, a horizontal section must be made through one of them. It is firm and resist- ing near the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vertically. These layers are attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gTadually decrease in number from the circumference towards the centre, and the interstices between them are filled by the soft pulpy tissue. The central portion is composed almost entirely of this pulpy tissue; and it bulges when no longer under pressure. Thus the bodies of the vertebrae, in their motions upon each other, revolve upon a ball of £uid tightly girt all round by bands of fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articular processes. Dissect an intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than that in the bodies of the vertebra?, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region behind.* * The structure of tlie intervertebral cartilages explains the ■well-kno'vra fact, that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours; and that he regains liis usual height after rest. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral cm-vature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by the habitual practice of leaning to this or that side. Experience proves that the cause of lateral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the fibro-cartilages than upon the bones. From an examination of the bodies of one hundred and thirty-four individuals with crooked spines, it was concluded that in two-thirds the bones were perfectly healthy ; that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the invertebral substances ; these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and on the convex side pre- ternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on the convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure.—On this subject se^ HUdthrandCs Anatomie, B. ii. s. 155.LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE HEAD TO THE SPINE. 213 Capsular Each joint between the articular processes has a cap- hgaments. gular ligament and a synovial membrane. The surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. Inter- Tbese are thin bands of fibres which pass between transverse the transverse processes of the vertebrae. They are igamen b. rudimentary in the cervical region, and are sometimes absent. Motions of Though but little movement is permitted between the spine. any two vertebrae (the atlas and axis excepted), yet the collective motion between them all is considerable. The spine can be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side; it also admits of shght rotation. In consequence of the elasticity of the inter- vertebral cartilages and the Hgamenta subflava, it returns spon- taneously to its natural curve of rest like an elastic bow. Its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of the thickness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebree, the^ oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the horizontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal region there is very Httle mobility, on account of the vertical direction of the articular processes, and the manner in which the arches and the spines overlap each other. In the lumbar region, the spine again becomes more movable, on account of the thickness of the intervertebral cartilages, and the horizontal direction of the spinous processes. Ligaments ^^^^ occiput is connected to the atlas by an anterior L^itTi*^' (occipito-atlantoid) membrane which passes from the bone and foramen magnum to the front part of the atlas. The SrtS! ^^'^^^^'^ P^'* ^^^^ is i^ the middle. A posterior (occipito-atlantoid) membrane extends in a similar manner from the posterior border of the foramen magnum to the arch of the atlas. It is perforated by the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. The movements which take place between these bones are flexion and extension, as in nodding forwards and backwards; and lateral movement, as in inclining the head sideways. °214 LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE HEAD TO THE SPINE. Ligiiments between the occipital bone and the axis. These are the most important; and to see them, the spinal canal must be exposed by removing the arches of the upper cervical vertebrae, and the posterior com- mon ligament, which is here very thick and strong. It descends from the basilar process of the occipital bone over the odontoid and transverse h'gaments. The odontoid or check ligfaments (fig. 44) are two Odontoid T-i iP i 'j or check very strong ligaments which proceed from the sides oi ligaments, ^j^g odontoid process to the tubercles on the inner sides of the condyles of the occiput. Their use is to limit the rotation of the head. A third or middle odontoid ligament passes from Fig. 44. POST? COMMON LICT DIAGEAM OF THE ODONTOID AND TBANSVEKSB ilGAMENTS. the apex of the odontoid process to the margin of the foramen magnum. It is sonietiraes called the ligamentum suspensoHum. The odontoid process of the axis forms a pivot upon which the head and atlas rotate. The most important ligament is the transverse (fig. 44). It passes behind the odontoid process, and is attached to the tubercles on the inner side of the articular processes of the atlas. From the centre of this ligament a few fibres pass upwards, and Articula- tion be- tween the atlas and the axis.LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 215 others downwards, giving it a cruciform appearance.* Thus it forms with the atlas a ring, into which the odontoid process is received. If this transverse ligament be divided, we observe that the odontoid process is covered with cartilage in front and behind, and is provided with two synovial membranes. Articulation -A-U the ribs, with the exception of the first and the of the ribs, two last, are articulated with the bodies of two vertebrae, and with the transverse processes. The head of each rib presents two articular surfaces, correspond- ing to the bodies of two vertebrae. There are two distinct articu- lations, each provided with a separate synovial membrane The ligaments are:—1. An anterior, which connects the head of the rib with the vertebrae, and with the intervening fibro-cartilage: this, on account of the divergence of its fibres, is called the ' stel- late ' ligament. 2. An inter-articular, which proceeds from the head of the rib to the intervertebral cartilage. The tubercle of the rib articulates with the transverse process. This articulation has a capsular and synovial membrane, and is secured by the following ligaments The posterior costo- transverse passes from the apex of the transverse process to the apex of the tubercle of the rib. 2. The middle costo-transverse connects the neck of the rib to the front surface of the transverse process. 3, The anterior costo-transverse ascends from the neck of the rib to the lower border of the transverse process above it. The head of the first rib articulates with a single vertebra. The eleventh and twelfth ribs articulate each with a single vertebra, and are not connected to the transverse processes. Connection cartilages of all the true ribs are received into between the slight concavities on the side of the sternum. In young tte ribf and that the cartilages of the six lower true tEe sternum. I'ibs have distinct articulations provided with synovial membranes. They are secured in front and behind by strong ligamentous fibres, which proceed from the cartilages and radiate upon the sternum, crossing those of the opposite side. * This is not shown in the diagram.LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER JAW. 216 The costal cartilages from the sixth to the tenth are connected by ligamentous fibres. Articulation '^^'^ condyle of the lower jaw articulates with the of the lower glenoid cavity of the temporal bone. The joint is provided with an inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and with external and internal lateral ligaments (fig. 45). Fig. 46. Section through the glenoid cavity Inter-artioular fibro-cartilage Internal lateral ligament TBANSrERSE SECTION TO SHOW THE LIGAMENTS AND THE FIBRO-CAETILAGE OF THE JOINT OF THE LOWER JAW. THE DOTTED LINES EEPEESENT THE TWO SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. The external lateral ligament extends from the tubercle of the zygoma downwards and backwards to the tubercle of the condyle of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the border of the dental foramen. This «so-called' ligament cannot in any way contribute to the strength of the joint: the articulation of one side performs the office of internal lateral ligament to the other.THE DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 217 The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is of an oval form, and thicker at the margin than at the centre. It is connected on the outer side to the external lateral ligament, and on the inner side some of the fibres of the external pterygoid are inserted into it. There are tivo synovial membranes for the joint. The larger and looser of the two is situated between the glenoid cavity and the fibro-cartilage. The other is interposed between the fibro- cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. They sometimes communi- cate through a small aperture in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. The form of the articulation of the lower jaw admits of motion —upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, and from side to side. A combination of these motions takes place in mastication: during this act the condyles of the jaw describe an oblique rotatory movement upon the glenoid cavity. The purposes served by this fibro-cartilage in this joint are, that it follows the condyle, and adapts a convenient socket for all its movements; and that, being elastic, it breaks shocks; for shocks here would be almost fatal, considering what a thin plate the glenoid cavity is, and that just above it is the brain. THE DISSECTION OF THE AEM. The arm being placed at right angles with the body, make three incisions through the skin: the first, along the middle of the sternum; the second, along the clavicle and down the front of the arm for about four inches; the third, from the ensiform cartilage vertically downwards, to the posterior border of the axilla. The skin should be carefully separated from the subjacent layer of adipose tissue (called the superficial fascia). In doing so, unless the subject be very muscular, you will scarcely notice the thin pale fibres of the broad cutaneous muscle of the neck ('pla- tysma myoides,' p. 13), which arises in this tissue. Cutaneous The numerous nerves which run through the sub- serves, cutaneous tissue to the skin and mammary gland must218 PECTORAL REGION. be carefully dissected. They are derived from various sources: some, branches of the superficial cervical plexus, descend over the clavicle; others, branches of the intercostal nerves, come through the intercostal spaces close to the sternum, with a small artery; a third series, also branches of the intercostal nerves, come out on the side of the chest, and run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major. The supra-clavicular nerves, which descend over the clavicle, are subdivided, according to their direction, into sternal, cla- vicxdar, and acromial branches (diagram, p. 15). The sternal cross the inner end of the clavicle to supply the skin over the upper part of the sternum. The clavicular pass over the middle of the clavicle, and supply the integument over the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The acromial branches cross over the outer end of the clavicle, and distribute their filaments to the skin of the shoulder. Near the sternum you find the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. After traversing the pectoralis major, each nerve sends a filament to the skin over the sternum, and a larger one, which supplies the skin, over the pectoral muscle. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. I have seen them nearly as large as the radial at the wrist. They would require a ligature in removal of the breast. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest. They will be more fully described presently. Eemove the superficial fascia with the mammary gland from the pectoralis major, by dissecting parallel to the course of the fibres. When the muscle has been fully exposed, observe its shape, the course of its fibres, their origin and insertion. Pectoralis The pectoralis major is the great triangular muscle major.' qd the front of the chest. It arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, from the front of the sternum, from the carti- lages of all the true ribs except the last, and from the aponeurosisPECTORAL REGION. 219 of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres con- verge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Their arrangement, as well as the structure of their tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres which form the boundary of the axilla are folded beneath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon, i.e. nearer to the shoulder joint; whereas the upper fibres, which arise from the clavicle, and are frequently separated from the main body of the muscle by a slight interval, descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Consequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. _ The object of this arrangement is to enable aU the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends ofif an 'aponeurosis' which straps down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. A second expansion is prolonged backwards to the tendon of the deltoid muscle, and a third is intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerus towards the chest: as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk as in climbing. ' Eetween the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle of the shoulder, is an interval varying in extent in different sub- jects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery-the thoradca humeraria~and the cephalic vein, which ascends on the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axillary. This interval is the proper place to feel for the coracoid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder, this point of bone IS a good landmark in helping the surgeon to arrive at a correct diagnosis. The pectoralis major is supplied with nerves by the anteriorPECTORAL REGION. 220 thoracic branches of the brachial plexus; with blood, by the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary artery. Reflect from the clavicle, the clavicular portion of UiTi^fra-'^^ the pectoralis major, and in doing so, a small nerve, clavicular t^jg anterior thoracic, must be noticed entering the region. ^^^ider surface of the muscle. Beneath the portion so reflected, part of the pectoralis minor will be exposed. Between the upper border of this muscle and the clavicle, is an important space, in which you must dissect and examine the relative position of the following obj ects— ^ ^ a. A strong ligamentous expansion, called the costo- coracoid coracoid fascia, which extends from the cartilage of fascia. ^j^g gj.g|^ j.^^ i-\jq coracoid process. Between these points it is attached to the clavicle, and forms a complete invest- ment for the subclavius muscle. It presents a crescent-shaped edge, which arches over, and protects the axillary vessels and nerves: from this edge is prolonged a fascia, which passes in front of the axillary vessels forming the anterior portion of their sheath ; the posterior being formed by a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The front portion of this sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein, thoracica acromialis artery, and anterior thoracic nerve. This fascia must be removed. b. The subclavius muscle enclosed in its fibrous sheath. c. The axillary vein, artery, and brachial plexus of nerves. d. A short arterial trunk (the thoracic axis), which divides into several radiating branches. e. The termination of the cephalic vein in the axillary. /. Two nerves (the anterior thoracic), which descend from the brachial plexus below the clavicle, cross in front of the axillary vessels to supply the pectoral muscles. This muscle lies between the clavicle and the first Subclavius. ^^ .ggg fj,^^ ^i^g cartilage of the first rib by a round tendon, and is inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle between its two tubercles. Its nerve comes from the brachial plexus. Its action is to depress the clavicle, and prevent its too great elevation.PECTORAL REGION. 221 In the space now before us are the great vessels and Suon'ofthe' ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ part of their course, axillary They lie at a great depth from the surface. They nei-^i! """"^ ^^'^ surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle, and are situated with regard to each other in the following manner. The axillary vein lies in front of the artery, and rather to its thoracic side. The axillary (brachial) plexus of nerves is situated above the artery, and on a posterior plane. The plexus consists of two, or some- times three large cords, which result from the union of the an- terior branches of the last four cervical and the first dorsal. Thoracic This is the first branch of the axillary artery. It axis. comes off above the pectoralis minor, and soon divides into three branches—the superior or short thoracic, the thoracica humeraria, and the thoracica acromialis. The superior or short thoracic runs between the pectoralis major and minor, supplying ramifications to both, and anastomosing with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. The thoracica humeraria descends with the cephalic vein, in the interval between the pectoralis maj or and deltoid, and ramifies in both. The thoracica acromialis passes over the coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, which it supplies, and communicates with the circumflex branches of the axillary. All these arteries are accompanied by veins which most frequently empty themselves into tlae cephalic, but occasionally into the axillary vein itself. Cephalic The cephalic vein is one of the principal cutaneous ^^"1- veins of the arm. Commencing on the back of the thumb and forefinger, it runs up the radial side of the forearm, over the front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps, it runs up the interval between the pectoraHs major and deltoid, pierces the costo-coracoid fascia, and finally empties itself into the axillary vein.* julu!r\?ttre T"'," """^ ''^""'^'^ '° -^--1 rebs ^ communication (termed jugiilo-cephalic) between these222 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Anterior Tliese nerves come from the brachial plexus, to supply thoracic the pectoral muscles. There are generally two—an external and an internal -one for each pectoral muscle (p. 62). The external arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, passes over the axillary artery, and supplies the pectoralis major; the internal comes from the internal cord, and emerges between the axillary artery and vein, to enter the under surface of the pectoralis minor. From this view of the relations of the axillary artery ^•i^g'the °^ in the first part of its course, some idea may be formed first part of of the difficulty of passing a ligature round it in this Ste^.'^^"'"'' situation. In addition to its great depth from the sur- face, varieties sometimes occur in the position of the nerves and veins, which would render the operation still more embarrassing. For instance, the anterior thoracic nerves may be more numerous than usual, and form by their mutual communi- cation a plexus around the artery. A large nerve is often seen crossing obliquely over the artery, immediately below the clavicle, to form one of the roots of the median nerve. The cephalic vein may ascend higher than usual, and open into the subclavian; and, as it receives large veins corresponding to the thoracic axis, a concourse of veins would be met with in front of the artery. Again, it is by no means uncommon to j&nd a deep-seated vein (e.g. the supra-scapular) crossing over the artery to join the axillary vein. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. The skin having already been reflected, it is necessary to notice the axillary sebaceous glands, and afterwards to make out the axillary fascia. Sebaceous close contact with the skin, near the roots of the glands. hairs in the axilla, are numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish brown colour, and rather larger than a pin's head.DISSECTION OF THE AXJLLA. 223 Axillary This tough membrane, -which lies immediately be- fascia. neath the skin of the axilla, is a continuation of the general investment of the muscles. It closes in and forms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Externally it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and°latissimus dorsi, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; internally,- it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle; in front and behind, it divides so as to inclose between its layers the muscles which form the boimdaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer incloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the coracoid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle; the posterior layer incloses the latissimus dorsi,' and passes backwards to the spine. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, often runs in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from tlie brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary, and runs across the floor of the axiUa towards the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major. So far as I know, it has not hitherto been named- but It is worth remembering, because it would occasion much haemorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. Contents of Eemove the axillary fascia, and display the boundaries _ and the contents of the axilla. The dissection of this cavity is difficult, and you must proceed cautiously. Bear in mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper part of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence working, therefore, in the middle: break down with the handle of the scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and absorbent glands, which occupy the cavity. You will soon dis- cover some cutaneous nerves coming out between the ribs, and then crossing the axillary space. These nerves are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves ^ they perforate the intercostal spaces between the digitations of the serratus magnus, midway between the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and _ posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectorahs major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and224 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. the mammary gland. The posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto- "^^^^ perforating branch of the second intercostal humeral nerve requires a special description; it is larger than nerves. others, and is called the ' intercosto-humeral,^ be- cause it supplies the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and terminates in filaments, which are dis- tributed to the skin on the inner side of the arm, as low as the internal condyle. The perforating branch of the third intercostal is also an ' intereosto-humeral' nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and rxms a similar course. The distribution of these nerves may account for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries The axilla may be described as a conical space, of of the axilla, which the Summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. Now, what are its boundaries ? On the inner side, it is bounded by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus; on the outer side by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps; in front by the pectoralis major and minor; behind by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularia. Its anterior and posterior boundaries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, think what serious consequences may follow suppuration here ; the matter may burrow under tlie pectoral muscles, or under the scapula, or it may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck. Axillary "^^^ axillary glands form a continuous chain beneath absorbent the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from glands. twelve to fifteen in number, of a reddish brown colour, and variable size. Most of them lie near some large blood-vessel; others are imbedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of theDISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 225 pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood by a branch {thovacica alaris) of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and infra-scajJidar arteries. These glands receive the absorbents from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mam- mary gland. Now reflect the pectoralis major from its origin, to expose the pectoralis minor, and the ramifications of the short and long- thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries as much as possible in connection with the main trunks. Pectoralis This muscle arises from the third, fourth, and fifth minor. Tibs, near the costal cartilages. The fibres run up- wards and outwards, and converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis by a strong- fascia, which forms a protection for the subjacent axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. Latissimus This muscle forms the posterior margin of the axilla. dorsi. It arises from the crest of the ilium, from the spines of the two or three upper sacral, all the lumbar, and six lower dorsal vertebrae, and by digitations from the three lower ribs^ corresponding with those of the external oblique. It is inserted by a broad flat tendon (which runs behind the axillary vessels and nerves), into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. ^ . This muscle lies behind the latissimus dorsi, is ieres major, i n i . closely connected with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the lower angle of the back of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon into the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. A bursa or sac, containing serum, to prevent friction, intervenes between this tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi. The action of this and the preceding muscle is to draw the humerus inwards and backwards. This muscle occupies the internal surface of the scapula. It arises from the internal surface of theDISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 226 scapula, with the exception of the angles and neck, and terminates in a strong tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of the muscle is intimately connected with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and between the coracoid process and the tendon is a bursa, which frequently communicates with the joint. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. Serratus l^his muscle covers the side of the chest like a girth, magnus. It avises from the eight upper ribs by nine slips or digitations, the second rib having two. Its fibres converge and are inserted into the posterior border of the scapula. Its action is to draw the scapula forwards; but of this more hereafter. It is supplied by the following nerve, which you see on its outer surface. This nerve supplies the serratus magnus only. It respiratory comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; and nerve of after passing through the scalenus medius, runs behind the axillary vessels, to the outer surface of the serratus magnus; each digitation receiving a separate filament.* Having surveyed the muscles which bound tlie axilla, study next the axillary artery, and its branches: to this end, reflect the subclavius from its insertion, and the pectoralis minor from its origin. This artery, a continuation of the subclavian, takes Course and j^y^Q name of 'axillary' at the outer border of the of the first rib. It runs downwards and outwards, through axillary upper part of the axilla, beneath the two pectoral artery. muscles, and along the inner edge of the coraco-bra- chialis, as far as the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, where it takes the name of 'brachial.' Its course may be divided into three portions: one above the pectoralis minor; one beliind it; and the third below it. The artery in the * It may be asked why this nerve is called the ' external respiratory.' It was so named hy Sir C. Bell, who considered the serratus magnus as the external respiratory muscle.227 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. first part of its course is covered by the pectoraJis major and the costo-coracoid sheath; and is crossed by the cephalic vein. On the inner side is the axillary vein; on the outer, the brachial plexus of nerves; and behind it, is the first intercostal space and the second digitation of the serratus magnus. In the second. part, it lies behind the pectoralis minor; on its inner side is the axillary vein, separated however from the artery by the brachial plexus, which here surrounds the artery. The artery rests upon loose cellular tissue. In the third part, i.e. below the pectoralis minor, the artery lies upon the subscapularis, and then upon the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. On the outer side is the coraco-brachialis; on its inner side, the axillary vein. The brachial plexus here breaks up into its vaiious divisions, whicli are generally arranged in the following manner: in front of the artery are the two roots of the median nerve, whicli con- verge like the letter V; on the outer side are the musculo-cutane- ous and external root of the median; on the inner, the ulnar, the two^ internal cutaneous, and the internal root of the median; behind it, the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves. Branches of The number and origin of these branches often vary, the^axillary but their general course is in most cases similar, and they usually arise in the order in which they are here described. The thoracic axis arises above the pectoralis minor, and divides into branches, which have been already described (p. 221). The alar thoracic is variable in its origin, supplies the glands and cellular tissue of the axilla The inferior or long thoracic artery, sometimes called the ex- ternal mammary, runs along the lower border of the pectoraUs mmor. It supplies the mammary gland, the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and maintains a free anastomosis with the short thoracic, internal mammary, and intercostal arteries. The subscapular is the largest branch of the axillary; it arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch. a. The anterior branch is the continued trunk ^, it runs along Q 2228 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. the anterior edge of the subscapularis towards the lower angle of the scapula. Its numerous branches supply the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and serratus magnus, and anastomose with the intercostal and thoracic arteries, as well as the posterior scapular (a branch of the subclavian). 6. The posterior branch (dorsalis scapulae) runs to the back of the scapula, through a triangular space, bounded in front by the Fig. 46. PLAN OF THE BEANCHES OF THE AXIXLAEY AETEKY. 1. Thoracic axis, giving off 6. Subscapular. 2. Short thoracic. 7. Dorsalis scapulas. 3. Thoracica acromialis. 8. Anterior circumflex. 4. Thoracica humeraria. 9. Posterior circumflex. 5. Long thoracic. long head of the triceps; below, by the teres major; and above, by the subscapular and teres minor (diagram, p. 229). On the back of the scapula, it divides into branches, which ramify close to the bone, supplying the infra-spinatus and teres minor, and anastomose with the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries (diagram, p. 60). The subscapular vein empties itself into the axillary vein. There are two circumflex arteries—an anterior and posterior ^""^ a posterior, so called from the manner in which they circumflex encircle the neck of the humerus. The posterior dr- artenes. c^^^jiex artery is as large as the subscapular, close to which it is given off; or both may arise from a common trunk from the axillary. It passes backwards through a quadrilateralDISSECTION or THE AXILLA. 229 epace, bounded above by the subscapularis and teres minor, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps (fig. 47). It then winds round the back of the neck of the humerus, and is distributed to the under surface of the deltoid. Fig. 47. DIAGRAM OF THE ORIGINS OP THE TRICEPS. 1. Snbscapularis. 2. Teres major. 3. Long head of triceps. 4. Square space for circumflex a. and n. 5. Triangular space for dorsalis scapula; a. e. Space for musoulo-spiral n., and superior profunda a. Besides the deltoid, the posterior circumflex artery supplies the long head of the triceps, the head of the humerus, and the shoulder- joint. It inosculates above with the acromio-thoracic and supra- scapular arteries, below with the ascending branch of the superior profunda (a branch of the brachial), and in front with the anterior circumflex artery. If you cannot find the posterior circumflex artery in its normal position, look for it (as a branch of the brachial) below the tendon of the teres major. The anterior circumflex artery, much smaller than the pos- terior, runs in front of the neck of the humerus, above the tendon- of the latissimus dorsi. It passes directly outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, close to the bone.DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. and terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates with the posterior circumflex artery. The most remarkable branch of the anterior circumflex artery is one which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the hunaerus, and is called, on that account, the bicipital artery. It supplies the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus. Axillary The axillary vein is formed by the junction of the vein. venae comites of the brachial artery, near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the brandies of the axillary artery, with the exception of the circumflex, which usually join either the subscapular or one of the venee comites. The axillary also receives the cephalic, and sometimes the basilic vein. The axillary vein in the first part of its course lies in front of the artery, and close to its sternal side; in the lower two thirds of its covu'se the vein lies still to the sternal side of the artery, but is separated from it by some of the nerves of the brachial plexus. This plexus is formed bv the anterior branches of Axillary or , ■ ^ " i n i ^ ^ t brachial the lour lower cervical and nrst dorsal nerves, and plexus of receives also a small communicating branch from the fourth cervical nerve. The plexus is broad at the lower part of the neck, where it emerges between the anterior and middle scalene muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle into the axilla. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is usually thus:—The fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord; the eighth cervical and the first dorsal form another cord; the seventh cervical runs for a short distance alone, and then splits into two branches, one of which joins the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical, the other, that formed by the eighth cervical and fir^t dorsal. The branch joining the trunk formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal usually receives a large reinforce- ment from the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical. Thus two great trunks are formed, which lie for some distance above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery. Beneath the clavicle, a third231 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. cord is formed by the junction of a fasciculus from each of the two primary trunks, so that in the axilla there are three large cords, Fig. 48. DIAGRAM OF THE BEACHIAl PLEXUS OF NERVES, AND THEIB BELATION TO THE AXIIXARY ABTEEY. 1. Ulnar. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Lesser int. cutaneous (n. ofWris- beig). 4. Musculo-spiral. 5. N. to latissimus dorsi. 6. N. to teres major. 7. N. to subscapiUaris, 8-9. Anterior thoracic n. to pectoral muscles. 10. N. to serratus magnus. 11. Median. 12. Circumflex. 13. External cutaneous. 14. Supra-scapular. 15. Posterior scapular. one external to the axillary artery, one internal to it, the third behind it.* The axillary plexus gives off some branches above the clavicle; these were dissected with the neck (p. 63). Below the clavicle, it gives off the following :— From the outer cord, an anterior thoracic branch, the external * This seems, from a number of dissections, to he the most frequent arrangement of the nerves forming the brachial plexus. This arrangement is, however, very variable, often differing on the two sides in the same subject,DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARAL 232 cutaneous, and the outer head of the median ; from tlie inner coi-d, another anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the ulnar, the internal, and the lesser internal cutaneous. From the posterior cord, the three suhscapular nerves, the circumflex and the musculo-spiral. The anterior thoracic nerves have been described (p. 222). Subscapular The three 'subscapular^ nerves are found .on the nerves. sm'face of the subscapularis. They come from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and supply respectively the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. The nerve for the latissimus dorsi (called the long subscapular nerve) runs with the anterior branch of the subscapular artery. The nerve for the teres major is either a branch of the preceding, or comes distinct from the plexus. It lies nearer to the humerus than the long subscapular, and after supplying a branch to the latissimus dorsi, terminates in the teres major. The proper nerve of tJie subscapularis arises from the plexus higher than the others. Circumflex The posterior circumflex artery is accompanied by nerve, the circumflex nerve whidh supplies the deltoid. This large nerve comes from the posterior part of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral and subscapular nerves, and, after sending a branch to the teres minor, terminates in the under surface of the deltoid. The nerve supplies the skin covering the deltoid by branches which turn round the posterior border of the muscle; other branches are distributed to the skin over the long head of the triceps. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER AEM. Let the incision be continued down the inner side of the arm as far as two inches below the elbow. Reflect the skin, and trace the following cutaneous nerves. Cutaneous The filaments of the intercosto-humeral nei-ves run nerves. down the inner and posterior part of the arm, to theDISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 233 olecranon; on the inner side of the arm, one joins a branch from the nerve of Wrisberg. The branches of the internal cutaneous nerve perforate the fascia about the middle of the inner side of the arm, and subdivide into filaments which supply the anterior and posterior surface of the forearm, as low as the wi'ist. The lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisherg) perforates the fascia about the lower third of the arm, and supplies the skin over the internal condyle and olecranon. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nei^e, sometimes wanting, and always small, comes through the fascia near the middle of the inner side of the arm. The nerves which perforate the fascia near the middle of the outer part of the arm, are the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral. They are accompanied by a small branch from the superior profunda artery. They divide into filaments, one of which is to be traced down the outer and back part of the forearm, nearly as low as the wrist. On the outer side of the tendon of the biceps the external cu- taneous nerve perforates the fascia, and divides into many branches, which supply the skin of the outer part of the forearm. Disposition "^^^ ^^^^ object of attention should be the disposition ofTeinsin of the veins in front of the elbow. In cleaning these elbow°^ '^^^^ divide the branches of the in- ternal and external cutaneous nerves which pass both above and below them. The following is the ordinary arrangement of the superficial veins at the bend of the elbow: On the outer side is the radial; on the inner side is the ulnar vein; in the centre is the median, which divides into two branches; the external of which, uniting with the radial to form the cephalic vein, is called the median cephalic; the internal, uniting with the ulnar to form the basilic, is named the median basilic. Near its bifurcation, the median vein communicates by a branch (mediana profunda) with the deep veins which accompany the arteries of the forearm. Trace the cephalic vein up the arm. It runs along the outer234 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM, border of the biceps to the groove between the pectoralis maj and the deltoid, where it terminates in the axillary. or Fig. 49. BaslUo V. Median basilic v. Deep median v. Cephalic v. Median cephalic v. Median y. StrPERFICIAX YEINS AND NEEVES AT THE BKND OF THE LEFT ELBOW. The basilic vein ascends along the inner side of the arm with the internal cutaneous nerve. Near the upper third of the arm, it perforates the fascia, and empties itself either into the internal vena comes of the brachial artery, or into the axillary vein. The principal branches of the nerves pass beneath the veins; but many small filaments cross in front which are exposed to injury in venesection. Since the median basilic vein is larger than the median cephalic, and, on account of the strong fascia beneath, more easily compressible, it is usually chosen for venesection; its position therefore, in reference to the brachial artery, becomes very important. The vein is only separated from the artery by the fascia, derived from Relation of nerves and reins at elbow. Relation of median basilic vein to bracliial artery.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 235 the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remark- ably thin, or even absent. It sometimes happens that the artery lies above the fascia, in absolute contact with the vein. In choosing, therefore, this vein for venesection, there is a risk of wounding the artery; hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic, or from the median basilic above the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. Immediately above the internal condyle, in the neighbourhood of the basilic vein, we find one or two small absorbent glands. Others may be higher up along the inner side of the arm. I have seen a gland at the bend of the elbow ; but never below this joint. These little glands are the first which become tender and enlarged after an injury to the hand. Muscular The fascia which invests the muscles of the upper, fascia. ^ arm is a continuation of the fascia from the trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density; thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm, to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. What are its connections ? At the upper part of the arm it is connected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; posteriorly, it is attached to the spine of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and furnishes partitions which separate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions the most marked are the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the condyloid ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal septum, the stronger of the two, begins at the insertion of the coraco-brachiaUs, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachiaHs anticus. The external septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachiahs anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps behind. At the lower part of the upper arm, the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus, and theDISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM; 236 brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps, and the olecranon. Now remove the fascia in order to study the muscles on the front of the arm; namely, the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the brachialis anticus. The biceps, as its name implies, arises by two heads —a long and a short. The short or internal liead arises from the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a thick flat tendon which is common to a slender muscle on its inner side, called the coraco-brachialis. The long head of the biceps arises from the upper border of the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a long round tendon, which traverses the shoulder- joint and passes over the head of the humerus, and do^vn the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. Divide this bridge and see that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompanies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a sort of synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circumflex) for its supply. The two heads unite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which terminates in a strong flat tendon of con- siderable length; this sinks deep into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over which the tendon plays, is crusted with cartilage, and a bursa mucosa intervenes to prevent friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semi-lunar fascia of the bic&ps, protects, the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of theDISSECTION OF THE UPPEU AKM. 237 forearm: 2. It is a supinator of the forearm, in consequence of its •insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the arm is bent, because its tendon is then inserted at a right angle. Why does the long tendon pass through the shoulder-joint ? It acts like a strap, and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion. But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts,' would be pulled directly upwards and strike against the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptured or dislo- cated from its groove a man can move his arm backwards and forwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight. The biceps is supplied with blood by an artery (from the brachial), which runs into the middle of it, and then divides into ascending and descend- ing branches. Its nerve comes from the external cutaneous (musculo cutaneous). Coraco- This thin muscle is situated at the upper part of the brachialis. arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short head of the biceps. It arises by fleshy fibres from the point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps and from a fibrous septum which Ues between them. The muscle terminates in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the middle of the humerus, between the brachialis anticus and •the inner head of the triceps. Its action is to draw the humerus forwards and inwards, e.g. in bringing the gun up to the shoulder. Concerning the coraco-brachialis remember, 1. That the ex ternal cutaneous nerve runs through it; 2. That its inner fleshy border is the guide to the axillary artery in the last part of its course; 3. That the brachial artery lies upon its flat tendon of insertion, and can here be effectually compressed by the fing-er or the tourmquet. s^^ The coraco-brachialis and biceps are covered at their upper part by the deltoid and pectoralis major. The head of the humerus rolls beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origin of fT^!' 7^ ^ i''^' interposed between these muscles and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head ofDISSECTION or THE UPPER ARM. 238 Brachialis This muscle is situated close to the lower half of the anticus. humerus, and is partially concealed by the biceps. Between the two muscles you lind the external cutaneous nerve, which supplies them both. It arises from the humerus by a fleshy digitation on either side of the tendon of the deltoid; from the front surface of the bone below this point, and from the intermuscular septa. The muscle, becoming thicker and broader as it descends, covers the front of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and terminates in a tendon, which is inserted in a pointed manner into tlie coronoid process of the ulna. Its action is to bend the forearm. Now examine the course and relations of the brachial vessels and nerves. ^ ^ The brachial artery, a continuation of the axillary, relations of takes its name at the lower border of the teres major, the brachial runs down the inner side of the arm, along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, to the front of the elbow, where it divides, near the coronoid process of the ulna, into the radial and ulnar arteries. Thus its direction corresponds with a line dra-wTi from the anterior part of the axilla to the central point between the condyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it lies on the long and inner heads of the triceps (from the long head it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery); in the middle, it lies on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis; in the lower part, on the brachialis anticus. The artery is accompanied by two veins ivenm comites), and the median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. The median nerve crosses obliquely in front of the artery, lying, near the axilla, on its outer side, near the elbow on its innei". The ulnar nerve at first runs along the inner side of the artery, but below is separated from it by the internal intermuscular septum, where it passes behind the internal condyle. Superficial to the artery, we find the internal cutaneous nerve and the basilic vein.DISSECTION or THE UPPEK ARM. 239 Observe particularly that the artery is more or less overlapped, in the first part of its course, by the coraco-brachialis, lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps; these muscles in their respective situations are the best guides to the artery. About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies for nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone that it can be effectually compressed; here, too, it is crossed by the median nerve. ' At the bend of the elbow the artery is protected by the semi- lunar fascia from the tendon of the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and by the supmator radii longus externally. It sinks into this space, with the tendon of the biceps to its outer side, and the median nerve to Its mner; all three rest upon the brachialis anticus. Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Two veins, of which the internal is the larger, lie in close con- tact with the brachial artery, and communicate at frequent inter- vals by transverse branches. Branches of ^he brachial artery gives ofif three branches, which brachial arise from its inner side; namely, the superior pro- funda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotica magna. It also gives ofif muscular branches to the coraco-brachi- alis and biceps. The profunda superior arises from the brachial artery, immedi- ately below the tendon of the teres major.* It winds round the posterior part of the humerus, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps with the musculo-spiral nerve (p. 229), and a little above the middle of the arm divides into two branches, which run for some distance on either side of the nerve. One of these runs m the substance of the triceps muscle to the olecranon, and anasto- rnoses with the ulnar recurrent, the interosseous recurrent, and anastomotica magna arteries; the other branch accompanies the the^a\l'I^d7r«f 1*'' ""'""^ '^l'^ "^"^^ f^^'^^' 1°°^ the tendon of trunk °^^ --^^DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARjr. 240 musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of the arm, descends deep in the fissure between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and terminates in numerous ramifications, some of which pass in front of the external condyle, and others behind it, to inosculate Avith the radial and interosseous recurrent arteries. Fig. 50. Superior profunda . . Interosseous recurrent. . Badial recurrent. Posterior interosseous . Inferior profunda. Anastomotica magna. Anterior ulnar recurrent. Posterior ulnar recurrent. ^ Common interosseous. Anterior interosseous. PLAK OF THE BRANCHES OF THE BEACHIA.L AETEET AND THE ARTEUIAI, INOSCUXATIONS ABOUT THE EIGHT ELBOTV-JOINT. Before its division, the superior profunda sends several branches to the triceps, some of which inosculate minutely with the circum- flex arteries. These would assist in establishing a collateral241 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. circulation if the bracliial artery were tied abo"«e the origin of the profunda. The profunda inferior arises from the brachial, opposite to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk with the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve on the inner head of the triceps (which it supplies), to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon, where it inoscu- lates with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna arteries. The medullary artery of the humerus arises sometimes from the brachial, sometimes from the inferior profunda. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascend- ing and descending brandies, which anastomose with the nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the brachial, about two inches above the elbow, runs tortuously in- wards across the brachialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of, others behind the internal condyle, anastomosing with the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anterior ulnar recurrent arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this muscle and the brachialis anticus. Venae The two veins which accompany the brachial artery comites. are continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The internal is usually the larger, since it generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In their course they are connected at intervals by transverse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the subscapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely in front of the axillary artery to join the vena comites interna, which then takes the name of ' axillary.' Now trace the great nerves of the upper arm, which proceed RDISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 242 from the brachial plexus near the tendon of the subscarplaris ; namely, the median, the external cutaneous, ulnar, and musculo- spiral or radial. Median The median nerve arises by two roots, which con- nerve, verge in front of the axillary artery (p. 231). The external root is derived from a trunk in common with the external cutaneous; the internal from a trunk in common with the ulnar and internal cutaneous. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis; about the middle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over the vessel, or perhaps beneath it, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, lying upon the brachialis anticus, and covered by the semilunar fascia from the biceps,* The eventual distribution of the median nerve is to the two * I have observed the following varieties relating to the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery:— a. The roots may he increased in number by one on either side of the artery; or the internal root may be deficient. b. They may vaj-y in their position with regard to the artery ; both may be situated behind the vessel, or one behind, and the other in front of it. c. The nerve, formed in the usual manner, may be joined lower down by a large branch from the external cutaneous ; such a case presents a junction of two large nerves in front of the brachial artery, in the middle of tlie arm. cl. The nerve in many cases crosses under, instead of over the artery. e. The nerve sometimes runs parallel and external to the artery; or it may run parallel to, and in front of the artery. In one hundred arms the relative position of the nerve to the arterj' in its coiu'se down the arm was as follows :— In 72, the nerve took the ordinary course. ,, 20, the nerve crossed obliquely under the artery. „ 5, the nerve ran parallel and superficial to the artery. „ 3, the nerve ran parallel and external to the artery. These varieties of the median nerve are of practical importance, for this reason: whenever, in the operation of tying the brachial artery, we do not find the nerve in its normal position, we may expect to find some irregular distribution of the arteries, e.g. a high division of the brachial, or even, which I have often seen, a ' vas aberrans ' coming from the upper part of the brachial, and joining either the radial or ulnar arteries.243 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. pronators and all the flexors of the forearm (except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum), to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, to both sides of the thumb, fore and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger. This nerve (often called the musculo-cutaneous or External . -.t .i cutaneous * perforans Casseru ) arises m common with the ex- nerve, ternal root of the median, from the external cord of the brachial plexus, and is situated on the outer side of the axillary artery. It perforates the coraco-brachialis, and then runs down between the biceps and the brachialis anticus. A little above the elbow-joint, between the tendon of the biceps and the supinator radii longus, the nerve becomes subcutaneous, and, passing under the median cephaUc vein, divides into branches, for the supply of the integuments of the forearm. The external cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course, sends branches to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and the brachialis anticus, it supplies both. Consequently, if the nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the arm.* This nerve also sends some small branches to supply the elbow- joint. ^ This nerve arises from the inner cord of the brachial arnerve. pjgjj.^g^ common with the internal cutaneous and the inner head of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachi- alis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and runs with the inferior pro- funda artery, behind the internal condyle. * In some instances the external cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachialis without perforating the muscle; in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. The trunk of the external cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any point between the axilla and the middle of the arm. In some subjects the nerve is absent; all its branches are then supplied by the median, which is larger than usual. Such anomalies are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having always a common origin. K 2244 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. The eventual distribution of the nerve is to the flexor carpi ulnarisj half the flexor profundus digitorum, all the interosseous muscles of the hand, Loth sides of the little finger, and the ulnar side of the ring finger; also to the muscles of the ball of the little finger. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve, we should have some knowledge of the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz., the triceps. . This muscle has three distinct origins, named from Triceps 1 ■ 7 77 extensor their position, external, internal, and middle or long cubiti. head (p. 229). The middle or long head arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity. The external head arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres minor. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major. The three heads unite near the middle of the arm to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon. ^ This, the largest of the brachial nerves, arises, in spiral or common with the circumflex, from the posterior cord radial nerve. q£ ^j-^g axillary plexus (p. 231). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve runs deeply imbedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus. A little above the elbow-joint it divides into its two principal branches—the radial, which accom- panies the radial artery along the forearm—and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies all the muscles on the back of the forearm. What is the distribution of this great nerve ? In a word, it supplies all the extensors of the forearm, wrist, thumb, and fingers; and all the supinators except one, namely, the biceps (supplied by the external cutaneous nerve).245 DISSECTION OF THE FUOiNT OF THE FOUEARM. DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Prolono- the incision down to the wrist, and at its termination make another transversely. Reflect the skin, and carefully dissect the subcutaneous veins and nerves. On the inner side is found the anterior ulnar vein. Cutaneous ^y^jicJi commences on the front of the little linger and veins. . ° wrist, and is then continued upwards on the inner side of the forearm as far as the elbow, where it is joined by the posterior ulnar vein to form the basilic (p. 234). The veins on the back of the hand commence at the extremities of the fingers, run up between the knuckles, and unite on the back of the hand in the shape of an arch, with its concavity up^ wards. The 'posterior ulnar vein arises from this arch by a branch (vena salvatella) situated over the fourth interosseous space, and runs up on the back of the forearm towards the inner condyle, to join the anterior ulnar vein. The radial vein, situated on the outer side of the forearm, commences on the back of the hand from the venous arch, runs up the outer side of the front of the forearm to the elbow, where it becomes the cephalic. Eunning up in front of the middle of the forearm is the median vein: near the bend of the elbow it is joined by a deep branch— mediana 'profunda—after which it divides into two branches, an outer or median cephalic, which joins the cephalic, and an inner or median basilic, which joins the basilic. On the radial side of the forearm, as low down as MiTes^""^ the wrist, are found. the terminal branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. At the lower part of the forearm, these filaments are situated over the radial artery. On the ulnar side is the anterior division of the internal cutaneous nerve, while its posterior branch passes to the back of the forearm, supplying it as far as the middle. On the outer and back part of the forearm near the elbow, the external cutaneous branch of the. musculo-spiral is seen running down as far as the wrist. At the lower third of the radial side of the forearm, the radial nerve:246 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOUEARM. becomes superficial, and turns over the radius to supply the back of the hand and fingers. Near the styloid process of the ulna, the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve perforates the fascia to reach the back of the hand. The muscles of the forearm are enveloped by a dense Deep fascia shining aponeurosis, which is continuous with that of ofthefore- ^^^^^ ^^^^ thickness increases as it approaches the wrist, in order that the tendons in this situation may be effectually maintained in their position. It is composed of fibres which cross each other obliquely, and is attached above to the condyles of the humerus and olecranon; internally, to the ridge on the posterior part of the ulna. At the back of the wrist it forms the posterior annular ligament, and in front is continuous with the anterior annular ligament. Above, the fascia is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The aponeurotic expansion from the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps is exceedingly strong. It braces the muscles on the inner side of the forearm, and interlaces at right angles with the fibres of the fascia attached to the internal condyle." The under surface of the fascia gives origin to the muscular fibres in the upper part of the forearm, and furnishes septa which separate the muscles, and form so many distinct sheaths for them. The fascia is perforated at various parts for the passage of the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the forearm. Eemove the fascia from the muscles by incisions corresponding to those for reflecting the skin; taking care of the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves close to the wrist. ^ At the bend of the elbow, a triangular space is found, with its base towards the humerus; on the inner side it is bounded by the pronator teres; on the outer, by the supinator radii longus. In it are found the following objects, which must be carefully dissected:—!. The brachial artery (with its companion veins) dividing into the radial and ulnar; 2, on the outer side of the artery is the tendon of the biceps; 3, on the inner, the median nerve; 4, the musculo-spiral nerve, partly concealed by the supinator longus; 5, the radial recurrent artery; 6, the anteriorI>1SSECTI0N OF THE FKONT OF THE FOREARJl. 247 ulnar recurrent; 7, the common interosseous branch of the ulnar artery. Muscles of muscles of the forearm are arranged in two forearm. groups; one, consisting of supinators and extensors, is attached to the outer condyloid ridge and condyle ; the other, consisting of pronators and flexors, is attached to the inner condyle. The inner group should be examined first: they arise by a common tendon, and are arranged in the following order: pronator teres; flexor carpi radialis; palmaris longus ; flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor subiimis digitorum. Pronator ^^^^ muscle forms the inner boundary of the tri- radii teres. angular space at the elbow. It arises from the anterior surface of the internal condyle, from the common tendon, and from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis. It has also a small tendinous origin from the coronoid process of the ulna. From these two origins, between which the median nerve passes, the muscle proceeds obliquely downwards, and is inserted by a flat tendon into 4 rough surface on the outer and back part of the middle third of the radius. In amputating the forearm, it is very desirable to save the insertion of this muscle, that the stump may have a pronator. Flexor carpi • ^^^"^^^'^^^^ arises by the common tendon from the radialis. eternal condyle, from the intermuscular septa, and _ from the fascia of the forearm. The fleshy fibres termmate near the middle of the forearm, in a flat tendon, which runs in a separate sheath outside the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. Note that the outer border of its tendon is the guide to the radial artery in the lower half of the lorearm. Palmaris ^^'^ ^^^'^^^^^ ^^^cle arises from the common tendon lougns. at the internal condyle, from the intermuscular septa of th. f ^^'''^ the middle lel Jr.T'":^ ^ -^ich descends veitically down the middle of the forearm to the wrist, lying upon248 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOUEARjf. the flexor sublimis digitorum; it then passes over the anterior annular ligament, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the palmar fascia.* This muscle arises by two heads; one from the ulnaru!'^^^' internal condyle, the common tendon, and the inter- muscular septum; the other from the inner edge of the olecranon: these two origins form an arch under which the ulnar nerve passes. It also arises from the upper two-thirds of the posterior edge of the ulna, through the medium of the aponeu- rosis, which is common to this muscle and the flexor profundus digitorum. The tendon appears on the radial side of the muscle, about the lower third of the forearm, and receives fleshy fibres on its ulnar side as low as the wrist. It is inserted into the os pisi- •forme, and thence by a strong tendon into the os unciforme and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. ^ This muscle is situated beneath those previously men- Flexor . . . m, 1 sublimis digi- tioned, and has two distmct ongms. 1 he longer ongm takes place from the internal condyle, from the internal lateral ligament, the common tendon, the intermuscular septa, and the coronoid process of the ulna ; the shorter origin takes place by tendinous and fleshy fibres from an oblique ridge on the front of the radius, extending to about an inch below the insertion of the pronator teres. This, called its radial origin, is partly con- cealed by the pronator teres. The muscle thus formed passes down the middle of the forearm, and divides into four distinct muscular slips : from these, four tendons arise, which pass beneath the annu- lar ligament into the palm, and on to the fingers, where they split to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted * The palmaris longus is sometimes absent. The situation of its muscular portion is subject to variety ; sometimes occupjiug the middle, sometimes the lower third of the forearm. The tendon is in some instances wholly inserted into the anterior annular ligament.DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 24^ into the sides of the second phalanges. Its action is, therefore to bend the second joint of the fingers. Having finished the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, notice one of those on the outer side, named supinator radii longus, before you trace the vessels and nerves of the fore- arm. Supinator ^^^^ muscle forms the external boundary of the rudii longus. triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, commencing a little below the insertion of the-deltoid. The muscular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, but acts much more powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. Radial artery ^^^^'^^ artery, one of the divisions of the brachial, "runs down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus,' beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the space between the first and second metacarpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius indicates its course. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies between the pronator teres on the inner, and the supinator longus on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower two-thirds of the forearm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supinator longus on the outer, and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its course, it lies successively on the follow- ing: first upon the tendon of the biceps; secondly, upon the supmator radii brevis ; thirdly, upon the tendon of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; fifth y, upon the flexor longus pollicis; sixthly, upon the pronator quadratus: and, lastly, upon the radius. It is accompanied by two veins, which communicate at frequent intervals, and join the venffi comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow.250 DISSECTION OF THE EKONT OF THE FOllEARM. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by the radial nerve (a branch of the musculo-spiral) which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes under the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the hand. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery; nevertheless, the vessel is not without a nerve, for it is accompanied by a branch of the musculo- cutaneous (or external cutaneous), which runs superficial to it. The radial artery sends off in the forearm the following branches, besides offsets, which supply the muscles on the outer side of the forearm. The radial recurrent is given off just below the elbow ; it passes outwards to supply the long and short supinators and the two radial extensors. One of its ramifications runs up with the musculo-spiral nerve between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and forms a delicate inosculation with the superior profunda (p. 240). The arteria superficialis voloi arises from the radial, about half an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius ; it runs superficially over the anterior annular ligament, above or perhaps through the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where it inosculates with the superficial branch of the ulnar, and completes the superficial palmar arch.* The anterior and posterior carpal arteries are small branches of the radial, which run beneath the tendons, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior interosseous, the carpal branches of the ulnar, and the recurrent carpal branch of the deep palmar arch. The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral, is Eadial nerve. ^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ elbow, deep between the supinator radii longus and brachialis anticus; it descends on * There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis volae; sometimes it is very large, arises higher than usual, and runs to the wrist parallel with the radial; sometimes it is vei-y small, terminating in the muscles of the thumb ; or it may be absent.251 DISSECTION OF THE ERONT OF THE FOIIEARM. the outer side of the radial artery, covered by the supinator radii longus. la the upper third of the forearm the nerve is at some distance from the artery ; in the middle third it approaches nearer to it; but in the lower third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes underneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and divides into two branches, which supply the back of the thumb, fore, and half the middle finger. This artery, the larger of the two divisions of the Ulnar artery. , i • i rv , ,i .in brachial, comes off at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist,- passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inoscu- lating with the superficialis volee. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles, the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. It is also crossed in its upper part by the median nerve. In the lower part of its course it descends between the flexor sub- limis and flexor carpi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery lies for a short distance on the brachialis anticus ; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a consi- derable interval: but about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to its inner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve being nearer to the bone. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this, exposed situation. Observe particularly the depth of the ulnar artery under the many muscles which cover it in the upper third of its course. In the middle third it is partially overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the lower third it lies under the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the proper guide to the vessel. The'252' DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. artery is accompanied by two veins which join the vena; comites of the brachial. The ulnar artery furnishes the following branches in the fore- arm :— The antenor and posterior ulnar recurrent arise immediately below the elbow-joint,—sometimes by a common trunk. The anterior passes upward between the brachialis anticus and the pronator teres, and inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The posterior ascends between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon: it then passes up between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, where it inosculates with the same arteries as the anterior (p. 240). The common interosseous artery arises from the ulnar, about an inch and a half below the division of the brachial; and soon divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, which we shall examine presently. The anterior and posterior carpal branches communicate with corresponding- branches from the radial, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus. This nerve runs behind the internal condyle, between Ulnar nerve. ^^^^^ origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In its course down the upper part of the forearm, the nerve is still covered by this muscle, and lies upon the flexor profundus digitorum. About the middle third of the forearm, the nerve joins the ulnar artery, and runs along its inner side over the annular ligament into the palm. The ulnar nerve gives off some filaments which are distributed to the elbow-joint, and supplies two muscles in the forearm ; namely, the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. About one inch and a half above the styloid process of the ulna, the nerve gives off a large cutaneous branch to the back of the hand. It°crosses under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, immediately below the styloid process of the ulna, appears on the back of the hand, where it divides into branches, which supply theDISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 253 back of the little finger, the ring, and half the middle finger; here also it sends a branch which communicates with the radial nerve. ^ ^. This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the nerve. inner side of the brachial artery. It then passes be- tween the two origins of the pronator teres, and de- scends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. At the lower part of the fore- arm it becomes more superficial, lying about the middle of the wrist, between the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis, and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis: it then enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.* Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends branches to the pronator teres and all the flexor muscles of the forearm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar. The interosseous branch of the median runs with the anterior interosseous artery, upon the interosseous membrane between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum: it supplies both these muscles and the pronator quadratus. Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament, it sends off its superficial x~)almar branch, which passes over the ligament, and divides into small filaments to supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb. Now reflect the superficial layer of muscles, to see those more deeply seated. Preserve the principal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are the flexor digitorum profundus, and the flexor longus pollicis; beneath both, near the wrist, lies the pronator quadratus. Close to the interosseous membrane run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. riexor pro- "^^^^ '^^ thickest muscle of the forearm. It arises fundus from the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the digitorum. i !• Ulna, Irom the same extent of its internal surface, from * If the tendon of the palmaris longus happen to be broader than usual, it may partially cover the median nerve near the wrist; but most frequently the nerve is im- mediately beneath the fascia, the tendon lying to its ulnar side.254 DISSECTION Of THE FRONT OF THE FOREAEM:' the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous ligament. About the middle of the forearm it divides into four muscular slips, which terminate in flat tendons. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament under those of the super- ficial flexor, into the palm. On the first phalanx of the fingers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the superficial, and are inserted into the base of the third or ungual phalanx. Flexor "^^^^ muscle is situated on the front surface of the longias radius, outside the preceding. It arises from the front pollicia. surface of the radius, between the tubercle and the pronator quadratus, and from the interosseous membrane.* Its tendon proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the last phalanx of the thumb. Pronator "^^^^ square muscle arises from the lower fourth of the quadratus. ulna; its fibres pass transversely outwards, and are inserted into the lower fourth of the radius. It rotates the radius on the ulna. Interosseous Nearly on a level with the insertion of the biceps, the artery. ulnar artery gives off from its outer side the common interosseous, which runs backwards for about half an inch, and divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous artery runs down close to the inter- osseous membrane, lying between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. At the upper edge of the pronator quadratus it divides into two branches ; one of which, the smaller, passes behind the muscle, supplies it and the front of the carpal bones, communicating with the anterior carpal arteries from the radial and ulnar ; the other, the most important, perforates the interosseous membrane, and helps to supply the muscles on the back of the forearm. A branch, the arteria comes nervi mediani, which almost always accompanies the median nerve, is an offset from the anterior inter- osseous. It lies in close contact with the nerve, sometimes in its » Sometimes by a slip from the coronoid process.255 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. very centre; though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery itself, and in such cases passes under the annular ligament with the nerve to join the palmar arch. Tliis is interest- ing, because it helps to explain the recurrence of haemorrhage from a wound in the palm, even after the radial and ulnar arteries have been tied. The anterior interosseous artery also gives off branches to the muscles on either side, and the nutrient arteries, which enter the radius and ulna from below upwards, near the centre of the fore- arm, to supply the medullary membrane. Anterior ^^^^ ^^^"^^ ^ branch of the median ; it is close to interosseous the artery, supplies the flexor longus pollicis, half the flexor profundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus. DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. Make a vertical incision along the centre of the palm, and a transverse one along the bases of the fingers; from this transverse cut continue vertical incisions along the front of the fingers, and reflect the skin; taking care not to remove a small cutaneous muscle—the palmaris brevis—situated near the ball of the little finger, and also two small cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves, which are found in the fat of the palm. Observe how closely, in the centre of the palm, the skin adheres to the palmar fascia beneath it. On the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is composed of a dense filamentous tissue, which con- tains numerous pellets of fat, forming a kind of elastic pad. A similar padding protects the palmar surfaces of the fingers. These cushions on the ends of the fingers defend them in the powerful actions of the hand; they are also useful in subservience to the nerves of touch. The palm is supplied with nerves by two small branches—one, the palmar branch of the median, passes in front of the anterior annular ligament to the centre of the palm; the other, a branch of the ulnar, supplies the inner aspect of the hand.DISSECTIOX or THE PALM OF THE HAND. 256 This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the inner Palmaris side of the palm. It arises from the inner edare of the central palmar fascia, and terminates in the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm: it acts powerfully as we grasp; it raises the edge of the palm and hollows it, forming the ' cup of Diogenes.' It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. This fascia has a silvery lustre, and, in the centre of Palmar the palm, is remarkably dense and strong. It is divided into three portions, a central—by far the strongest; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little finger. From the deep surface of the fascia two septa dip down, so as to divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumb, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed by a prolongation from the anterior annular ligament. It is also strengthened by the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus. The central portion of the fascia is triangular, with the apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected by transverse tendinous fibres, extending com- pletely across the palm, and corresponding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the skin in this situation. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre- sponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The eff"ect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are Inst in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers.DISSECTION or THE TALM OP THE HAND. 257 The chief use of the palmar fascia is to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Between the interdigital folds of the skin, we find aponeurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the trans- verse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous ligament across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Cut through the palmar fascia at its attachment to the anterior annular ligament, and reflect it towards the fingers, to expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons still deeper. There is an abundance of loose cellular tissue to allow the free play of the tendons. When suppuration takes place in the palm, it is seated in this tissue. Eeflect for a moment, what mischief is likely to ensue. The matter cannot get to the surface through the dense palmar fascia, or on the back of the hand; it will therefore run up under the annular ligament, and make its way deep amongst the tendons of the forearm. Supei-ficial ^^'^^^ ^rtexj, having passed over the annular liga- palmararch. "^^^^ near the pisiform bone, describes a curve across the upper part of the palm beneath the palmar fascia towards the thumb, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the superficialis vol«, and very commonly with a branch from the arteria radialis indicis, to form the superficial palmar arch. The curve of the arch is directed towards the ball of the thumb. How are we to ascertain its exact position in the hand ? Most commonly its greatest convexity descends as low as a horil zontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament, the artery is protected m a furrow, between the pisiform and unciform bones, and by an expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the pal- mans longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to its inner side. In the palm, the artery rests for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, then it lies upon the superficial flexor tendons 8258 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. and the divisions of the ulnar and median nerves; and is covered by the palraaris longus and the palmar fascia. Fig.61. Badial artery Superflcialis voIsb A rteria magna pollicis . . . Eadialis indicis . Ulnar artery. Ulnaris profunda. DIAGRAM OF THE SUPEHFICIAL AND DEEP PALMAR ARCHES. 1, 2, 3,4. Interosseous branches. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar ?f tWnar artery gives off the ulnaris profunda, which sinks artery in the deeply into the palm between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, to assist in forming the deep pal- mar arch. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve.259 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF TIIL: HAXD. From the concavity of the arch small branches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. From the convexity of the arch arise four digital arteries,-which. supply all the fingers, excepting the radial side of the index finger. Observe carefully the course of these arteries, because you may have to open abscesses in the palm. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line ivith the clefts between the fingers, and about half an inch above the clefts each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae of the skin. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries before they divide are joined by a small branch from the corresponding interosseous artery (a branch of the deep palmar arch). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels round the root of the nail. Ulnar n • "^^^ '"^^^^^ '^^erve passes over the annular ligament in the pall! ^^^^ P^^°^> ttie inner side of the ulnar artery, and a little behind it. It lies in a groove between the pisi- form and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pres- sure in this apparently exposed situation. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The deep branch supplies the muscles of the little finger, and accompanies the ulnaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the interosseous muscles, and the two inner lumbricales. The superficial branch sends filaments to the pal- mans brevis, to the integument on the inner side of the palm, and then divides into two digital nerves, one for the supply of the S 2260 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. ulnar side of the little finger, and the other for the contiguous sides of the little and rini; finfjers. The digital branches run along the sides of the fingers to their extremities superficial to their corresponding arteries. The more external of the two branches communicates with the median nerve behind the superficial palmar arch. Anterior This exceedingly strong and thick ligament confines annular the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, and fastens fclu^uf together the bones of the carpus. It is attached exter- nally to the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is continuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wrist; its lower terminates in the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb and little finger. Cut vertically through the ligament, and observe, that, with the carpal bones, it forms an elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial membrane whicb is reflected loosely over the tendons. Superficial to the ligament, pass the palmaris longus, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the palmar branch of the median nerve; beneath it, pass the super- ficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor cai'pi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is con- tained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial membrane, formed partly by the annular liganient and partly by the groove in the trapezium. In its passage under the annular ligament, the inThe palm^° median nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial mem- brane. It lies between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and those of the flexor profundus, and is rather nearer to the radial than the ulnar side of the wrist. As soon as it appears in the palm, the nerve lies superficial to all the tendons, and then divides into two branches; the external gives off branches to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, namely, to the abductor pollicis, the opponens pollicis, and the outer head of the flexor brevisDISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 261 pollicis, and then terminates in three digital nerves, two of which are distributed to the thumb, and the third to the outer side of the index finger; the internal gives off two digital branches which supply the rest of the forefinger, the middle finger, and the radial side of the ring finger. The two nerves to the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx. The third digital nerve runs along the radial side of the index finger. The fourth descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The fifth is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft be- tween the middle and ring fingers, to supjoly their opposite sides. Two small branches are given off from the third and fourth digital nerves, to supply the two outer lumbricales; the two inner being supplied by the ulnar. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down; there- fore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. In their course along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, commu- nicating with the dorsal branches, derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the imgual phalanx another branch is dis- * We find upon the cutaneous nerves of tlieliand and feet, little bodies termpd after tlieir discoverer, corpuscles of 'Pacini.' Some of them will be found, by carefully exam.nmg the trunk of a nerve, or one of its smaller branches, in the subcutaueous tissue at the root of a finger. Each corpuscle is about ^\th of an inch long and is attached by a slender fibro-cellular pedicle to the nerve upon which it is situated • throngli the pedicle, a single primitive nerve fibril passes into the corpuscle The corpu-scle itself is composed of a series of concentric capsules, varying from twenty to litty m number, and separated by intervals containing fluid: and the nerve fibril terminates by a dilated extremity in a central cavity, which exists in the axis of tlio corpuscle. Their function is unknown.DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. iG2 tributed to the skin around and beneath the root of the nail. Each nerve terminates near the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, with their points directed to the papillse of the skin. Flexor ton- Immediately below the annular ligament the tendons dons and separate from each other; near the metacarpal ioints their sheaths. . . , 1 J they pass m pau\s, through strong fibrous nngs (p. 256) formed by the divisions of the palmar fascia. Below the meta- carpal joint the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath (theca), which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the ridges on the phalanges, and converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons. The density of the sheath varies in particular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, cut open one of the sheaths along its entire length; you will then see that it is much stronger between the joints than over the joints themselves. Through these sheaths, inflammation commencing in the integu- ments of the finger may readily extend to the synovial membi-ane of the tendon. In cases of whitlow, when matter forms in the theca, the incision should be made deep enough to lay open this fibro-osseous canal, without which the incision will be of no use. It is obvious that the incision should be made down the centre of the finger, to avoid the digital nerves and arteries. If this opening be not timely made, the flexor tendons are likely to slough, and the finger becomes stiff.* But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor * On closer inspection it will be observed that the sheath is composed of bands of fibres, -which take different directions, and have received distinct names. The strongest are called the 'ligamenta vaginalia.' They constitute the sheath over the body of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other. The 'ligamenta cruciata' are two slips, which cross obliquely over the tendons. The ' ligamenta anmdaria' are situated immediately in front of the joints, and may be considered as thin continuations of the ligamenta vaginalia. They consist of delicate fibres, which are attached on either side of the joints to the glenoid ligaments, and pass transversely over the tendons.DISSECTION or THE PALM OE THE HAND. 263 tendons play over them ? Look into an open sheath, and you will see that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth fibro-cartilaginous structure, called the ' glenoid' ligament. To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, as -well as the tendons, is lined by a synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With a probe you may easily ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, so that it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. And now notice how beautifully the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor; about the middle of the first phalanx it splits into two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portions reunite below the deep tendon so as completel}'- to embrace it, and then divide a second time into two slips, which interlace with each other and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The dee'p flexor, having passed through the opening of the super- ficial one, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx.* In what way are the tendons supplied with blood ? Eaise and separate the tendons, and you will see that slender folds of synovial membrane (vincula tendinum) run up from the phalanges to the tendons; when minutely injected, these folds are full of blood- vessels. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies on the radial side of the other tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper sheath, and is inserted into * In the museum of the College of Surgeons, a preparation is put up which shows a beautiful piece of animal mechanics about the flexor tendons; namely, that in its passage along the phalanges the deep flexor forms at the first phalanx a kind of little patella for the superficial one; but at the second phalanx the supei-ficial flexor lies deeper than the other, and forms a little patella for it. This is a very pretty mechani- cal ingenuity to increase the leverage in each case.264 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. the base of the last phalanx. Its synovial sheath is prolonged from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and accompanies it down to the last joint of the thumb; consequently the sheath is injured in amputation of the last phalanx. ^ ^ A large and loose synovial sac, called the bursa of the th6carp^.° carpus, facilitates the play of the tendons beneath the anterior annular ligament. It lines the under surface of the ligament and the groove of the carpus, and is reflected in loose folds over the tendons. It is prolonged up the tendons for an inch and a half, or two inches, and forms a ' cul-de-sac' above the ligament. Below the ligament the bursa extends into the palm, and sends off prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accompany them down to the middle of the hand. You will easily understand that, when the bursa is inflamed and distended by fluid, there will be a bulging above the annular ligament, and another in the palm, with perceptible fluctuation between them ; the unyield- ing ligament causing a constriction in the centre.* ^ ^ ■ ^ These four slender muscles, one for each finger, are attached to the deep flexor tendons in the palm. All of them arise from the radial side of the deep tendon of their corresponding finger: the third and fourth often arise from the adjacent sides of two tendons. Each terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted into the extensor tendon on the back of the finger. Their action is to bend the first joint of the fingers. Being inserted near the centre of motion, they can move the fingers with great rapidity. As they produce the quick motions of the musician's fingers, they are called by anatomists ' fidicinales.' The two inner lumbricales are supplied by the deep branch of * I have met with only one instance in which this bursa communicated with the wrist joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor of the thumb, in most cases with tliat of the flexors of the little finger, and but rarely with that of the index, middle, and ring fingers. On this account inflammation of the theca of the thumb or little finger is more liable to bo attended with serious conse- quences than either of the others.263 DISSECTION or THE PALM OE THE HAND, the ulnar nerve; the two outer by the third and fourth digital branches of the median. Let us now proceed to the muscles composing the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The dissection of them requires con- siderable care. Muscles of the '^^^ great strength of the muscles of the ball of the ball of the thumb (unde nomen pollicis), is one of the dis- thumb. tinguishing features of the human hand. This strength is necessary in order to oppose that of all the fingers. In addition to its strength, the thumb enjoys perfect mobility. It has no less than eight muscles to work it:—namely, an abductor, an opponens, two flexors, three extensors, and an adductor. Take first the muscles of the ball. This is the most superficial. It is a thin, flat muscle, pol'licL"^ arises from the os scaphoides and the annular ligament; and is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb away from the fingers. Eeflect it from its insertion to expose the following— Hosor ossis -^^^^ muscle arises from the os trapezium and the metacarpi annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length opponens! ^^^^ metacarpal bone of the thumb. The action of this powerful muscle is to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. Reflect it from its insertion, to expose the following— , . This muscle has two origins ; one from the annular 1.6X01? DrGVlS 1 • poUicis. ligament and os magnum, the other from the os trapezoides, os magnum, and the base of the third metacarpal bone. It is inserted by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the superficial tendon being connected with the abductor pollicis, and the deep one with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. Adductor This muscle arises from the palmar aspect of the pollicis. shaft of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; itsDISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAXD. 26G fibres converge and are inserted, along with the inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm, as when we bring the tips of the thumb and little finger into contact. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which also supplies the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The other muscles of the ball of the thumb are supplied by the median nerve. Muscles of the "^^^ muscles of the little finger correspond in some ban ofthe* ^ measure with those of the thumb. Thus we have little finger. abductor, a flexor brevis, and an opponens minimi digiti. This, the most superficial of the muscles of the little Ahductor fi^o-er, arises from the pisiform bone, and from the tendinous expansion of the flexor carpi tiinans: it is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the rest. This slender muscle may fairly be considered as a Flexor brevis pQ^.^jo^ of the preceding. It arises from the unciform igi 1. ^^^^ annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor. Between the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve sinks down to form the deep palmar arch. The last two muscles must be reflected from theu- dg'tT'"' insertion, to expose the opiponens digiti minimi. It minimi. arises from the unciform bone and the annular ligament, and is inserted along the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, the most movable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it greatly strengthens the grasp of the palm. Now cut through all the flexor tendons, and remove the deep fascia of the palm, to see the deep arch of arteries and its branches. nnches of '^'^^^ ^'^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^"^^^'^ ^^^^ ^ Srradkl°ar-between the first and second metacarpal bones (be- tery in the , .^^^^^ ^^^^ of the flexor brevis and the palm. twccu.DlSSECTIO>i OF THE TALM OF THE HAND. 2G7 adductor pollicis), and gives off three branches — the arteria magna pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the pal maris profunda, which unites with the ulnar to form the deep arch. The arteria magna jpollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb : in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides into two branches, which proceed one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their distribution and mode of termination are similar to those of the other digital arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, along the radial side of the index finger to the extremity, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arch. The jpahnaris profunda is considered as the continuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, resting upon the bases of the metacarpal bones and the interosseous muscles, and inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small recurrent branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch four small branches, called palmar interosseous (fig. 51, p. 258), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate with the digital arteries. These palmar mterosseous branches are sometimes of considerable size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordinarily derived from the superficial palmar arch. Other branches, called 'per- forating; pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and communicate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. Deep branch '^^^^ nerve sinks into the palm with the ulnaris pro- of the ulnar funda artery, between the abductor and flexor brevis nerve. . . . . . mimmi digiti. It then runs, with the deep palmar268 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE AllM. ai-ch towards the radial side of the palm, and terminates in the adductor pollicis, and inner head of the flexor brevis polliciB. Between the pisiform and unciform bones, the nerve gives a branch to each of the muscles of the little finger. Subsequently it sends branches to each interosseous muscle and to the two inner lumbricales. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis in the palm must now be followed to its insertion into the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The dissection of the remaining muscles of the palm, called, from their position, ' interossei,' must be for the present post- poned. MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. Make an incision down the spine from the occiput to the sacrum; another from the last dorsal vertebra upwards and out- ward to the acromion; and a third from the sacrum along the crest of the ilium; then reflect the skin outwards from the dense subcutaneous tissue, in which will be found the following cuta- neous nerves. These are derived from the posterior branches of the S^rTT spinal nerves, and correspond generally to the number the back. ^£ ^j^g vertebrae. The posterior primary branches, much smaller than the anterior, divide between the transverse processes into external and internal branches. From the internal, which become superficial near the spines of the vertebra?, are derived those branches which supply the skin in the cervical and upper dorsal regions ; from the external, which appear near the angles of the ribs, those which supply the skin of the lower dorsal and lumbar regions. In the cervical and upper dorsal region, the cutaneous nerves perforate the complexus, splenius, and trapezius; in the lower dorsal and lumbar region they perforate the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. As might be expected, the external branches are the larger, especially in the loins, where some of themMUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 269 descend over the crest of the ilium, and terminate in the skin of the buttock. Of these cutaneous nerves notice particularly the following:— The jposterioT branch of the second cervical nerve is called the great occipital. It perforates the complexus, and ramifies upon the scalp, with the branches of the occipital artery. The cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve also sends a branch to the back of the scalp. The cxitaneous branch of the second dorsal nerve is the largest of all the dorsal cutaneous nerves. It may be traced outwards towards the spine of the scapula. The posterior branch of the second lumbar nerve perforates the fascia lumborum near the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and runs over the crest of the ilium, to supply the skin of the buttock. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, which form the first layer of muscles, must now be cleaned by dissecting in the course of their fibres. Alone, this muscle is triangular; with its fellow, it Trapezius. • i p -T • n presents a trapezoid lorm. It arises from the inner fourth, more or less, of the superior curved line of the occiput; from the ligamentum nuchge,* from the spines of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrse, and from their supraspinous ligaments. The fibres converge towards the shoulder. The upper are inserted fleshy into the external third of the clavicle; the middle, into the inner border of the acromion and spine of the scapula; the lower terminate in a thin tendon, Avhich plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the origin of the deltoid, and the two * The ' ligamentum nuchae ' is, in man, only a rudiment of the great elastic ligament which supports the weight of the head in quadrupeds. It extends from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrse except the atlas; otherwise it would impede the free rotation of the head. In the giraffe this ligament is six feet long, and as thick as a man's forearm. I am told by Professor Quekett, that when divided it shrinks at least two feet.270 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITir THE ARM. muscles are connected by a tliin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, you will see that, between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. The fixed point of the muscle being at the spine, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of sixty degrees: beyond this the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the action of the trapezius rotating the scapula. It is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders; again, its middle and inferior fibres act powerfully in drawing the scapida backwards, as in preparing to strike a blow. If both muscles act, they draw the head backwards; if one, it draws the head to the same side. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and the cervical plexus, and by the superficialis colli artery. This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and dorsr™^^ lower dorsal region, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the external lip of the crest of the ilium, from the spinous processes of the two upper sacral, all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal vertebrae by a strong aponeurosis; and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by digitations, which correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which curves round the inferior angle of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad, flat tendon, into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa* The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwards and backwards ; rotating it also inwards. It also co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. The object of * The latissimus dorsi sometimes receives a distinct accessor^' slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. It is supplied by the long subscapular nerve.MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 271 the muscle arising so high up the back is, that the transverse fibres of the muscle may strap down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle : this displacement is readily recognised by the unnatural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and the impaired move- ments of the arm.* Between the base of the scapula, the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a triangular space is observed wben the arm is raised, in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus major and part of the sixth intercostal space, are exposed. Imme- diately above the crest of the ilium, between the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, there is, also, an interval in which a little of the internal oblique can be seen. Vertebral "^^^^ dense shining aponeurosis of the back is situated aponeu.osis. between the serrati postici and the erector spinas, of which muscle it forms the posterior part of the sheath. It is pointed above, where it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia, broader and stronger below. It consists of tendinous fibres, which are attached internally to the spines of the six or seven lower dorsal, all the lumbar and sacral vertebrae ; externally, to the angles of the ribs; and inferiorly it is blended with the tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. When sup- puration takes place in the loins, constituting ' lumbar abscess' in- connection with spinal disease, the matter is seated beneath this aponeurosis, and is therefore a long time in coming to the surface. Eeflect the trapezius from its insertion. On its under surface see the ramifications of its nutrient artery, the superficialis colli (a branch of the posterior scapular). A large nerve, the spinal accessory, enters its under surface near the clavicle, and divides into filaments, some of which ascend, others descend in its substance. * We have seen an instance of this displacement. There was great projection of the mfenor angle of the scapula, especially when the man attempted to raise the arm. He could not raise the arm beyond a right angle, unless firm pressure was made on the lower angle of the scapula, so as to supply the place of the muscular strap. Whether the scapula can be replaced or not, apply a fii-m bandage round the chest.272 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. Spinal aeces- This nerve is one of the tl)ree divisions of the eighth sory nerve, pair of Cerebral nerves. It arises from the lateral part of the cervical portion of the spinal cord by several roots, some of which are as low as the sixth cervical vertebra. Formed by the union of these roots, the nerve enters the skull through tlie foramen magnum, and leaves it again through the foramen jugulare. It then runs behind the internal jugular vein, traverses obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trapezius, which it supplies (p. 15). Beneath the trapezius we have to examine the second layer, consisting of three muscles connected with the scapula; namely, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboideus major and minor. The scapula must be adjusted so as to stretch their fibres. Levator an- This muscle is situated at the side of the neck. It guli scapulae, arises by four tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae. The muscular slips to which the tendons give rise, form a single muscle, which descends down the side of the neck, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle. Its action is to raise the posterior angle of the scapula; as, for instance, in shrugging the shoulders. Its nerve comes from the fifth and sixth cervical. Ehombo These flat muscles extend from the spinous processes ideus major of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula. They often and minor, appear like a single muscle. The rhomboideus minor, the higher of the two, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite its spine. The rhomboideus major arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the base of the scapula between its spine and inferior angle. The action of these muscles is to draw the scapula upwards and backwards. They are the antagonists of the serratus magnus. The nei^e of the rhomboid muscles (posterior scapular) is aMUSCLES OP THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 273 branch of the fifth and sixth cervical. It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the levator anguli scapula?, to which it sends a branch, and is lost in the under surface of the rhomboidei. Omo- This muscle extends from the scapula to the os hyoideus. hyoides, and consists of two long narrow muscular por- tions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath, the sterno- mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. From thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direction and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the as hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 22). Thus the two por- tions of the muscle form beneath the sterno-mastoid an obtuse angle, of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the an^^ular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding "from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the os hyoides. Its nerve comes from the descendens nom. Supra-scapu- This artery (transversalis humeri), a branch of the lar artery. thyroid axis, runs beneath and parallel with the clavicle over the lower end of the scalenus anticus to the upper border of the scapula, where it usually passes above the ligament, bridging over the notch. It ramifies in the supra spinous fossa, supplying the supra-spmatus, and then passes under the acromion to the mfra-spinous fossa, where it inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapula, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off the supra- aa^mmL branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the sub- clavian or m the external jugular. The supra-scapular nerve, a branch of the fifth and sixth twt'tr" "'"^ corresponding artery, and after passing soS distributed to the supra! spmatus and mfra-spmatus. In the supra-spinous fossa, this nerve gends a small branch to the shoulder-joint274 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. Posterior "^'^^^ artery, sometimes called the ' transversalis scapular colli,' is usually described as arisiiifj; from the thyroid artery. axis, but it comes very frequently from the subclavian in the third part of its course. It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it pur- sues its course along the posterior border of the scapula beneath the levator anguli scapulae and therhomboidei, anastomosing with branches of the supra-scapular and sub-scapular arteries. The corresponding vein joins the external jugular or the subclavian. Divide the rhomboid muscles near their insertion, and trace the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboidei, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. Numerous muscular branches arise from the posterior scapular. One, the superficialis colli, is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus than was seen in the axilla. The abundance of cellular tissue in this situa- tion is necessary for the play of the scapula on the chest. This broad flat muscle intervenes between the scapula Serratus ^ ^^Y)s. It arises by nine fleshy digitations from magnus. . .• ° . . the eight upper ribs, each rib gmng origin to one, and the second to two. The four lower digitations correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres pass backwards, and converge to be inserted along the posterior border of the scapula, chiefly near the upper and lower angles. This is the most important of the muscles which regulate the movements of the scapula; it draws the scapula forwards—and thus gives additional reach to the arm; it counteracts all forces Avhich tend to push the scapula backwards; for instance, when a man falls forwards upon his hands, the serratus magnus sustains the shock, and prevents the scapula from being driven back to the spine. Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some275 MUSCLES or TUB SHOULDER. anatomists ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs; hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, as opposed to the internal respiratory muscle, the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies it is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve: it descends along its outer surface (p. 226). Divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should be tied to the coracoid process. After the removal of the arm, examine the precise insertion of the preceding muscles. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OP THE SHOULDEE. Cutane I^^ssect first the cutaneous nerves of the shoulder; ne'lrreTof the derived, partly from the branches of the shoulder. cervical plexus which descend over the acromion (p. 17), partly from the circumflex nerve, of which one or two branches turn round the posterior border of the deltoid; others perforate the muscle, each accompanied by a small artery Notice the strong layer of fascia upon the surface of the del- toid which extends from the aponeurosis covering the muscles on the back of the scapula, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It dips down between the fibres of the muscle, dividing It into large bundles. This fascia must be removed. Deltoid. g^^eat muscle which covers the shoulder-joint is named deltoid, from its resemblance to the Greek A reversed. It arises from the external third of the clavicle, from the acromion, and from the spine of the scapula down to the triangular surface at its root. This origin, which corresponds to the insertion of the trapezius, is tendinous and fleshy everywhere except at the commencement of the spine of the scapula, where it s simply tendinous, and connected with the in fra-spinous aponeu- rosis. The muscular fibres descend, the anterior backwards, the posterior forwards, the middle perpendicularly; all converge to a tendon which is ^nserted into a rough surface oL the outer fide ofMUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 276 Fig. 52. the humerus, a little above the middle of the Rhaft. The insertion of the tendon extends one incli and a half along the Immerus, and terminates in a smaller V-shaped form, the origin of the brachialis anticus being on either side. The muscular bundles composing the deltoid have a peculiar arrangement: a peculiarity arising from its broad origin and its narrow insertion. It consists in the interposition of tendons between the bundles for the attachment of the muscular fibres. The annexed woodcut shows this beautiful arrangement better than any description. The action of the muscle is not only con- centrated upon one point, but its power is also greatly increased, by this arrangement. It raises the arm; but it cannot do so beyond an the deltoid, ^ngle of sixty degrees. The elevation of the arm beyond this angle is effected through the elevation of the shoulder by the trapezius and serratus magnus. Its anterior fibres draw the arm forwards; its posterior, backwards. This powerful muscle is well sup- plied with blood, by the anterior and posterior circumflex, the tho- racica humeraria, the thoracica acromiaUs, all from the axillary artery; also by the deltoid branch of the brachial. Its nerve is the circumflex. The deltoid gives the rotundity to the shoulder. When the head of the humerus is dislocated into the axilla, the fibres of the muscle run vertically to their insertion; hence the flattening of the deltoid, and the greater prominence of the acromion. Below the deltoid we generally meet with ununited fracture of the humerus; owing to the muscle raising the upper fragment. ANALYSIS OF THE DELTOID.MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDERf 277 Reflect the deltoid from its origin, and turn it downwards. Observe the ramifications of the circumflex artery and nerve, on its under surface: also the large bursa between it and the tendons inserted into the head of the humerus. See how the muscle pro- tects the shoulder-joint; how it covers the coraco-acromial liga- ment, the head, neck, and upper part of the humerus, as well as the tendons inserted into the greater tuberosity. Bur-^a under ^ ^^^'^^ ^^^f ^ ^^^^ situated between the deltoid, tliTdeitdd!' ^^^^ tendons inserted into the head of the humerus. It extends for some distance beneath the acromion and the coraco-acromial ligament, and covers the great tuberosity of the humerus. I have seen it communicating by a wide opening with the shoulder-joint, but this is a rare exception. Its use is to facilitate the movements of the head of the bone under the acromial arch. Posterior This artery is given off from the axillary: it runs drcumflex behind the surgical neck of the humerus, through a ^' quadrilateral opening, bounded above by the sub- scapularis and teres minor, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps (p. 229). Its branches terminate on the under surface of the deltoid, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, acromial thoracic, and supra-scapular arteries. From the posterior circumflex, a branch descends in the sub- stance of the long head of the triceps, to inosculate with the superior profunda; this is one of the channels through which the circulation would be carried on, if the axillary wei^ tied in the last part of its course. Circumflex ^ ^'''''"'^ °^ posterior cord of the nerve. axillary plexus, runs with the posterior circumflex artery. It sends a branch to the teres minor, one or two to the integuments of the shoulder, and terminates in the substance of the deltoid. The proximity of this nerve to the head ot the humerus explains the occasional paralysis of the deltoid after dislocation or fracture of the humerus. The nerve is apt to' be injured, if not actually lacerated by the pressure of the bone.278 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. In the summer of 1840, a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury to the shoulder, and died of delirium tremens. On examination the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn com- pletely across.* The muscles of the dorsum of the scapula are covered by a strong aponeurosis, firmly attached to the spine and borders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. Eemove the aponeurosis, so far as it can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds of spkatus infra-spinous fossa, and from the aponeurosis which covers it. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds over the capsule of the shoulder-joint to be inserted into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Its nerve comes from the supra-scapular. This lona: narrow muscle is situated below the infra- spinatus, along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from the dorsum of the scapula, close to the inferior border. The fibres ascend parallel with those of the infra-spinatus, and terminate in a tendon, which passes over the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lowest depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the bone below it. It is supplied by a branch of the circumflex nerve, which has usually a small ganglion upon it. The action of the infra-spinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards. This muscle is closely connected with the latissimus Teres major. ^^^.^-^ extends from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axilla. It anses from the flat surface at the inferior angle of the back of the scapula, and from its inferior border, and terminates Teres minor, ^ * See preparation in Museum of St. BartholomeVs Hospital, series 3, no. 42.279 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. upon a flat tendon, two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind and a little below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its action is to draw the humerus backwards. It is supplied by the middle sub- scapular nerve. You will find a bursa in front of, and another behind the tendon of the teres major; the former separates it from the latissimus dorsi, the latter from the bone. This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds of fpmatus. supra-spinous fossa, and from its aponeurotic cover- ing. It passes under the acromion, over the shoulder- joint, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the greater tuber- osity of the humerus. To see its insertion, the acromion should be sawn off near the neck of the scapula. Its action is to assist the deltoid in raising the arm. Its nerve is derived from the supra-scapular. This muscle occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises Subscapu- f^.Qjj^ ^j^g posterior three-fourths of the fossa, from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique ridges on its surface. The fibres converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad insertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it com- pletely protects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerve which supplies it comes from the posterior cord which gives off the circumflex and musculo-spiral. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, form an arch, under which the tendon of the sub- scapularis plays. There are several hursce about the tendon. One of considerable size on the upper surface of the tendon, facili- tates its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco- brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the deltoid. Another is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably communicates witli it.280 TRICEPS. Now reflect the muscles from the surfaces of the scapula, to trace the arteries which ramify upon it. ^. This artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, runs under of supra- parallel with the clavicle, and passes above the scapulai- notch of the scapula, into the supra-spinal fossa: it artery. •■ , , , . , , sends a branch to the supra-spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends over the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine, where it inosculates directly with the dorsalis scapulae. Its branches ramify upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres minor. The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, and supplies the supra and infra-spinatus. Dorsalis '^^^^ artery, after passing through the triangular scapulse space (p. 229), curves round the inferior border of the artery. scapula, which it sometimes grooves, to the infra- spinous fossa, where it ascends close to the bone, and anasto- moses with the supra and posterior scapula arteries. The frequent communications about the scapula between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a free current of blood to the arm, if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle (p. 60). ^ . This muscle, which arises by three heads, and was Triceps *' . extensor only partially seen m the dissection of the upper arm ciibiti. 229), should now be fully examined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon which is connected with the capsule of the shoulder- joint. The second or external head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the insertion of the teres minor; the third or internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the teres major. The precise origin of these heads from the humerus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which intervene between them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon; it is also connected with the281 TRICEPS. fascia on the back of the forearm. The reason of this connection is, that the same muscle which extends the forearm may at the same time tig-hten the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. This is just what we observed in the case of the biceps, and its semi-lunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and olecranon is a bursa, commonly of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. This bursa must not be mistaken for that which is always found between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above the elbow, and turning down the lower portion, it will be observed that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsule of the joint. They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle, under the name of ' suhanconetis;' their use is to draw up the capsule, so that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The subanconeus is in this respect analogous to the sub- crurffius muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon^ and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anastomotica magna (fig. 50, p. 240). Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (p. 239), and musculo-spiral nerve round the posterior part of the humerus! They He in a groove on the bone, between the external and in- ternal heads of the triceps, and are protected by an aponeurotic arch thrown over them by the external head of the triceps. After supplying the muscles, the artery continues along the outer side of the arm between the braehialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and inosculates with the radial recurrent. It gives off a branch which runs down between the triceps and the bone, and inosculates at the back of the elbow with the anastomotica magna and posterior interosseous recurrent. The musculo-spiral nerve which accompanies the artery sends branches to supply the three portions of the triceps, the supinator radii longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior.* It then divides into the posterior inter- * In some (rare) instances, the braehialis anticus receives a branch from the musculo-spiral. >282 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE KOHEAUM. osseous and radial nerves. A small branch of this nerve, wliich passes through the substance of the triceps to supply the anconeus, must be made out. The cutaneous branches of tlie musculo-spiral nerve have been already dissected (p. 233). DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOEEAKM. Eemove the skin from the back of the forearm, hand, and fingers. Observe the subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon. It is com- monly of considerable size, and, if distended, would appear nearly as large as a walnut. Another bursa is sometimes found a little lower down upon the ulna. A subcutaneous bursa is generally placed over the internal condyle, another over the external. A bursa is also situated over the styloid process of the ulna; this sometimes communicates with the sheath of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Small bursas are sometimes developed in the cellular tissue over each of the knuckles. The cutaneous veins from the back of the hand and forearm join the venous plexus at the bend of the elbow (see p. 234). They are the external cutaneous branches of the Cutaneous musculo-spiral, branches of the internal cutaneous, nerves of the ^ ' ' back of the and of the external cutaneous. The greater number forearm and q£ ^^xe^^ nerves may be traced down to the back of the wrist. The skin on the back of the hand is united to the subjacent tendons by an abundance of loose connective tissue, in which we find large veins, and branches of the radial and ulnar nerves. The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve passes beneath the ten- don of the flexor carpi ulnaris, over the internal lateral liga- ment of the wrist; and divides upon the back of the hand into filaments, which supply the back of the little finger, the ring finger, and the ulnar side of the middle finger. The radial nerve passes obliquely beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and subdivides into branches, which supply both sides of the back of283 DISSECTION' OF THE BACK OE THE EOREAIiM. the thumb and forefinger, and the radial side of the middle finger.* The radial nerve commonly gives off a branch which joins that division of the ulnar nerve which supplies the radial border of the ring and contiguous side of the middle finger. The fascia on the bach of the forearm is composed of fibres interlacing and stronger than that upon the front of the forearm. It is attached to the condyles of the humerus and to the olecranon, and is strengthened by an expansion from the tendon of the triceps. Along the forearm it is attached to the ridge on the posterior part of the ulna. Its upper third gives origin to the fibres of the muscles beneath it, and separates them by septa, to which their fibres are also attached. Posterior should be considered as a part of the fascia of annular the forearm, strengthened by oblique aponeurotic igament. qu the back of the wrist to confine the extensor tendons. These fibres are attached to the styloid process of the radius, and thence pass obliquely inwards to the inner side of the wrist, where they are connected with the pisiform and cuneiform bones. Observe that they pass below the styloid process of the ulna, to which they are in no way attached, otherwise the rotation of the radius would be impeded. From the deep surface of this 'so-called' ligament, processes are attached to the ridges on the back of the radius, so as to form six distinct sheaths for the passage of the extensor tendons. Counting from the radius, the first sheath contains the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis; the second, the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevier; the third, the tendon of the extensor secundi * The relative share which the radial and ulnar nerves take in supplying the fingers varies. Under any arrangement the thumb and each finger has two dorsal nerves, one on either side, of which the terminal branches reach the root of the nail. They supply filaments to the skin on the back of the finger, and have frequent communica- tions with the palmar digital nerves. In some instances one or more of the dorsal nerves do not extend beyond the first phalanx; their place is then supplied by a branch from the palmar nerve.niSSECTIOX OF Tin; BACK OF THE FORE.VIIM. 284 internodii pollicis; the fourth, the tendons of the indicator and the extensor communis digitorum; the fifth, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. All the sheaths are lined by synovial membranes, which extend nearly to the insertions of their tendons. In a few instances, one or more of them communicate with the wrist- joint. The fascia of the metacarpus consists of a thin fibrous layer, continued from the posterior annular ligament. It separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous veins and nerves, and is attached to the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar side of the fifth. The fascia must be removed from tlie muscles, with- nmscles'on injuring the muscular fibres which arise from its the back of under surface. Preserve the posterior annular liga- the forearm. , rrr, r n • i j j ment. The following muscles are now exposed, and should be examined in the order in which they are placed, pro- ceeding from the radial to the ulnar side ;—1. The supinator radii longus (already described, p. 249). 2. The extensor carpi radi- alis longior. 3. The extensor carpi radialis brevier. 4. The extensor communis digitorum. 5. The extensor minimi digiti. 6. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 7. The anconeus. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the wiist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—the extensor dssis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we ob- serve a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. This subcutaneous portion of the bone is immediately above the prominent tubercle in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it presents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fracture.285 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Extensor ™^ muscle is partly covered by the supinator radii carpi radi- lougus. It avises from the lower third of the ridge, alls longior. ^gg^^jj^j^g ^}jg external condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum, descends along the outer side of the forearm, and terminates about the middle, in a flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back part of the radius, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Previous to its insertion, the tendon is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor '^^^^ muscle wrises from the external condyle and carpi radialis from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-ioint. The muscular fibres terminate near the middle of the forearm, upon the under su}-face of a flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, beneath the first two extensors of the thumb. The tendon traverses a groove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, but lined by a separate synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor ^^^^ muscle arises from the common tendon attached digitorum to the external condyle, from the septa between it and communis. ,1 ,. , ■. . the contiguous muscles, and from its strong fascial covering. About the middle of the forearm the muscle divides into three or four fleshy slips, terminating in as many flat tendons, which pass beneath the posterior annular ligament, through a groove on the back of the radius lined by synovial membrane. On the back of the hand they become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacarpal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give off on each side a fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each tendon again spreads out^ receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei286 J>JSSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAUM. muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.* Observe the oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons on the back of the hand. They are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united \vith it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle usually receives a slip from that of the ring-finger. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and in some cases entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. It is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but it can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed; or it can extend the second and third phalanges daring flexion of the first. This long slender muscle, which is situated on the digitTmf- inner side of the common extensor muscle, arises from nimi or the common tendon from the external condyle, and auricularis. ^j.^.^ ^he septa between it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender tendon runs beneath the annular ligament immedi- ately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, terminat- ing in the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseus. ^ ^ ^ This muscle arises from the common tendon fi-om carpi the external condyle, from the septum between it and ulnaris. estensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the forearm. The fibres terminate upon a strong broad tendon, * The extensor teiidons are only inserted into the periosteum, whereas the flexor tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts for the facility with which the former will tear oif the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter will adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the phalanx can be removed.DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 287 Avhich traverses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular liga- ment, over the back of the wrist, and is here contained in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the back of the cunei- form, pisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continuation from the synovial membrane in the groove of the ulna. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline it towards the ulnar side. It is supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve. In pronation of the forearm, the lower end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti. A subcutaneous bursa is sometimes found above the bone in this situation. Anconeus "^^'^^ smaU triangular muscle is situated at the outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered by a strong layer of fascia, derived from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It aHses tendinous from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of the muscle is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Its action is to assist in extending the forearm. Its nerve comes from the musculo-spiral. Deep-seated expose the deep layer of muscles, detach from the muscles on external condyle, the extensor carpi radialis brevier, the foream extensor communis digitorum, the extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor corpi ulnaris; and after noticing the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface, turn them down. The deep-seated muscles, with the posterior interosseous artery and nerve, must be cleaned. The muscles exposed are: 1. The extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. 2. Extensor primi internodii polHcis. 3. Extensor secundi internodii poUicis. 4. Extensor indicis or indicator. 5. The supinator radii brevis. They are all supplied by branches from the posterior interosseous nerve.288 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Tliis muscle arises from the posterior surface of the ossislneta- ^^^^^ below the Supinator brevis, from the posterior carpi pol- surface of the radius, and from the interosseous liga- ment. The muscle crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a groove, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and frequently also by a tendinous slip into the trapezium. „ This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the Extensor t t t i ,i •, , • primi in- radius and ulna, below the precedmg, and from the inter- teniodu osseous ligament. It turns over the radial extensors of pollicis. ° . 1 , . 1 the wrist, and terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the annular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. ^ ^ Arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, and secundi inter- from the interosseous membrane. The tendon receives nodii pollicis. fleg]^y fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the annular ligament, in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery, where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three extensors of the thumb is implied by their names. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the indS°or ulna, and from the interosseous ligament. The tendon indicator. passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove on the back of the radius with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back of289 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle, the index finger can be extended inde- pendently of the others. Reflect the extensor carpi radialis longior and the anconeus from their origins, to expose the following muscle. Su inator "^^^^^ muscle embraces the upper third of the radius. raX'brevis. arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, from the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of tJie ulna below the insertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from the triangular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna. The muscular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The muscle is perforated obliquely by the posterior interosseous nerve, one of the terminal divisions of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the forearm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. Posterior ^^^^ artery comes from the ulnar by a common trunk interosseous with the anterior interosseous (p. 254), and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between tne radius and ulna above the interosseous membrane, and appears between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inosculates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous, and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. But the largest branch of this artery is the recurrent It ascends benea h the anconeus muscle to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance of the290 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. In the lower part of the back of the forearm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane to reach the back of the wrist (see p. 254). Posterior '^^^ uerve wliich supplies the muscles on the back of interosseous tlie forearm is the posterior inieroaseous, a branch of nerve. ^j^^ musculo-spiral. It passes obliquely tlirough the supinator radii brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, sending to each a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the ex- tensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo-spiral. The continuation of the posterior interosseous nerve descends beneath the extensor secundi internodii pollicis and the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis to the back of the wrist. Behind the common extensor tendons the nerve forms a kind of gangliform enlargement from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. ^ ^. ^ ^ Trace the continuation of the radial artery over the on the back*^ external lateral Ugament of the carpus, beneath the of the wrist, extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the interval between the first and second metacarpal bones, where it sinks between the two origins of the abductor indicis, and entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is crossed by filaments of the radial nerve; observe, also, that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It supplies the following small branches to the back of the hand: — a. Posterior carpal artery.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and with a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces, beneathDISSECTION- OP THE BACK OF- THE FOREARM. 291 the extensor tendons, inosculating near the carpal ends of the metacarpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. b. The first dorsalinterosseous artery is generally larger than tlie others. It descends over the second interosseous muscle to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, communicating here with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. _ c. The dorsal artery of the index-finger, a branch of variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finp-er. d. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first meta- carpal booe, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries supply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. Eemove the tendons from the back and from the palm of the hand: observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the interosseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones forms a distmct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is con- tmuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal Hgament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the meta- carpal bones. Transverse ™s consists of strong bands of ligamentous fibres STbT' ""^'f P^'' transversely between the digital extremities' • of the metacarpal bones. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a certain degree of move- ment between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Eernovethe fascia which covers the interosseous muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse meta- u 2292 INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. carpal ligament. A bursa is frequently developed between their digital extremities. These muscles, so named from their position, extend ?usdeT°''' from the sides of the metacarpal bones to the bases of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons of the fingers. In each interosseous space (except the first, in which there is only an abductor) there are two, one of which is an ab- ductor, the other an adductor of a finger. According to this arrangement there are seven in all; fovu- of which, situated on the back of the hand, are called dorsal; the remainder, seen only in the palm, are called palmar. DIAGRAM or THE FOUR DOESAL IN- TEEOSSEI, DRAWING FROM THE MIDDLE LINE. DIAGRAM OF THE THREE PALMAR IN- TEEOSSEI, AND ATSO THE ADDUCTOR POLLICIS, DRAWING TOWARDS THE MIDDLE LINE. Each dorsal interosseous muscle arises from the Dorsal opposite sides of two contiguous metacarpal bones interossei. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^.^ double origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which passes between the metacarpal joints of the finger, and is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx rINTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 293 it is also connected by a broad expansion with the extensor tendon on the bade of the finger. The Jirst dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) is larger than the others, and occupies the interval between the thumb and fore-finger. It arises from the upper half of the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone, and from the entire length of the radial side of the second : between the two origins, the radial artery passes into the palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second meta- carpal space. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon. The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If an imaginary line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig. 53, we shall find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that Ime; consequently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmar in- ^^q^i^'es a Careful examination to distinguish this terosseous. set of muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one meta- carpal bone, that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted (fig. 54). They terminate in small tendons which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and are inserted, like the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on the back of the fingers. The first palmar interosseous muscle arises from* the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side ot the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the rino- and little fingers. ° The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to an imagi-294 LIGAMEN'rS OF THE CLAVICLE. nary line drawn througli the middle finger (fig. 54). They are, therefore, the opponents of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and move the fingers towards each other. The palmar and dorsal interossei are supplied by offsets from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. The inner end of the clavicle articulates with a shallow excavation on the upper and outer part of the sternum. The security of the joint depends upon the strength of its ligaments. There are two synovial membranes, and an intervening fibro-cartilage. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament (fig. 55), consists of a Joint be- tween THE CLAVICLE AND THE STEKNUM. Fig. 55. DIAGRAM OF THE STEENO-CLAVICULAB LIGAMENTS. 1. InterolaTicular ligament. 3. Costo-claTicular ligament. 2. Anterior sterno-claTicular ligament. 4. Interartioular fibro-cartilage. broad band of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely downwards and inwards over the front of the joint, from the end of the clavicle to the anterior surface of the sternum. A similar band, the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, ex- tends over the back of the joint, from the back of the clavicle to the back of the sternum. The clavicles are connected by the inter-clavicular ligament. It extends transversely above the notch of the sternum, and has aLIGAMENTS OJT THE CLAVICLE. 295 broad attachment to the upper border of each clavicle. Between the clavicles it is more or less attached to the sternum, so that it forms a curve with the concavity upwards. The three ligaments just described are so closely connected, that, collectively, they form a complete fibrous capsule of great strength for the joint. A ligament, called the costo-clavicular or rhomboid, connects the clavicle to the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends from the cartilage of the rib to a rough surface beneath the sternal end of the clavicle. Its use is to limit the elevation of the clavicle. There is such constant movement between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib, that a well-marked bursa is commonly found between them. Interarticular Jihro-cartilage.—To see this, cut through the rhomboid, the anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint and raise the clavicle. It is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the circumference than the centre, in which there is sometimes a perforation. Inferiorly, it is attached to the cartilage of the first rib, close to the sternum; superiorly, to the upper part of the clavicle and the inter-clavicular ligament. Its circumference is mseparably connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint The joint is provided with two synovial membranes: one between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other, between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer surface of the fibro-cartilage. This interarticular fibro-cartilage is a structure hicrhly elastic without admitting of any stretching. It equalises pressure, pre- vents shocks and also acts as a ligament, preventing the clavicle trom being driven inwards towards the mesial line Obsei-ve the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse and convex m the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint IZl hi'''V^'^. understand the movements of which it as capable. The clavicle can move upon the sternum in a direction296 SIIOULDER-JOINT. either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circumduction. These movements, though limited at the sternum, are considerable at the apex of the shoulder. The outer end of the clavicle articulates with the COXKECTIO^J OF THE CT.A- acromion, and is connected by strong ligaments to the vicLE WITH coracoid process of the scapula. THE SCAPULA. . ' . i ; 7 • j Joint between the acromion and the clavicle.—The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant inwards, and the greater diameters are in the antero-posterior direction. The su'pevior ligament, a broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of less strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An interarticidar fibro-cartilage is sometimes found in this joint: but it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane, Coraco-clavicular ligament.—The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, might fairly be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the more anterior and external. It arises from the back part of the coracoid process, and ascends obliquely outwards to the clavicle, near its outer end. The conoid ligament is fixed at its apex to the root of the coracoid process, ascends vertically, and is attached by its base to the clavicle, near the posterior border. When the clavicle is fractured in the line of the attachment of the coraco- clavicular ligament, there is no displacement of the fractured ends ; these being kept in place by the ligament. Ligaments proper to the scapula.—There are two : the coracoid ligament, attached to the margins of the supra-scapular notch ; and the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, attached by its apex to the acromion, and by its base to the outer border of the cora- coid process. It is separated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa.SHOULDER-JOINT. 297 The articular surface of the head of the humerus, Shocldee- forming rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves JOINT. ° . ^ ' upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and the lon^y diameter nearly vertical. The security of the joint depends, not upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but upon the great strength and number of the tendons which surround it. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the cajpsular ligament of the joint be loose and capacious. Accordingly, the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion takes place into the joint; also in cases of paralysis of the deltoid. The capsular ligament is attached above, round the circum- ference of the glenoid cavity; and below, round the anatomical neck of the humerus. It is strengthened on its upper and pos- terior part by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor ; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis, its lower part by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule between the tendons of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps : through this part of the capsule the head of the bone usually protrudes in dis- locations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening (fora- men ovale) is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessory Ugam.ent. It is attached to the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it isELBOW-JOINT. 298 inseparably united, and is fixed into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long bead of the biceps. It enters the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the glenoid cavity. It is loose and movable within the joint; and it acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone. The tendon of the biceps does not perforate the synovial mem- brane of the joint. It is inclosed in a tubular sheath, which is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the humerus. During the earlier part of foetal life it is connected to the capsule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently disappears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous band of considerable thickness, called the glenoid ligament. This not only enlarges but deepens the cavity. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps : in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edge of the cavity. The cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it in the form of a cul-de-sac, down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The shoulder-joint has a more extensive range of motion than any other joint in the body; it is, in fact, a universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards; of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The elbow-joint is a perfect hinge. The larger sig- Elbow- ^qJ^ cavity of the ulna is adapted to the trochlea upon the lower end of the humerus, admitting of simple flexion and extension; while the shallow excavation upon the headELBOW-JOINT. 299 of the radius admits not only of flexion and extension, but of rota- tion upon the rounded articular eminence (capitellum) of the hu- merus. The joint is secured by two strong lateral ligaments. No ligament is attached to the head of the radius, otherwise its rotatory movement would be impeded. It is simply surrounded by a liga- mentous collar, called the annular ligament, within which it freely rolls. Internal lateral ligament.—This is triangular. Its apex is attached to the internal condyle of the humerus: from this point the fibres radiate, and are inserted into the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. A transverse band of ligamentous fibres extends from the ole- cranon to the coronoid process across a notch observable on the inner side of the sigmoid cavity: through this notch vessels pass into the joint. External lateral ligament—This is attached to the external Kg. 56. a. External lateral ligament. b. Orbicular ligament. ring. LIGAMENTS OP THE BIBOW. condyle of the humerus; the fibres spread out as they descend, and are interwoven with the annular ligament, surrounding the head of the radius.300 ELBOW-JOINT. The anterior and posterior ligaments of the elbow-joint consist merely of a few thin ligamentous fibres spread over the capsule of the joint in front and behind. There is no need of ligaments to limit flexion and extension in this joint: for the corouoid process limits the one ; the olecranon the other. The preceding ligaments, collectively, form a continuous capsule for the joint. The orhicidar or annular ligament of the radius (fig. 56) is attached to the anterior and the posterior border of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. With this cavity, it forms a complete collar, which encircles the head and part of the neck of the radius. The lower part of the collar is narrower than the upper, in order to clasp the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in position. Synovial membrane of the elbow-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision in front, and observe the relative adaptation of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of tlie radius and its orbicular ligament. It is widest and loosest under the tendon of the triceps. Where the mem- brane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossae on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. This is an aponeurotic septum, stretched between ligament or the bones of the forearm, of which the chief purpose is membrane. afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient above, to permit free rotation of the radius. Its fibres extend obliquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. It is perforated in its lower third by the anterior interosseous vessels. The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin band of ligamentous fibres, which extends obliquely between the bones of the forearm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid process; inferiorly, to the radius immediately below the tubercle. Between this ligament301 wriSt-joint. and the upper border of the interosseous membrane is a triangular interval through which the posterior interosseous artery passes to reach the back of the forearm. A bursa intervenes between the oblique ligament and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The use of this ligament is to limit supination of the radius. Radio-cak- ^^^^ J"^^^ formed by the lower end of the radius, PAL OR which articulates with the scaphoid and semilunar bones M'BisT JOINT. ^i^g ^^j.p^g. ^j^g j^^g^ ^j^^ excluded from the joint by a triangular fibro-cartilage, which articulates with a small portion of the cuneiform bone. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral ligaments, forming, together, an uninterrupted capsule around it. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius, to the scaphoid bone and the anterior annular ligament (p. 302). The internal lateral ligament proceeds from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, to the cuneiform bone. Some of its fibres are attached to the pisiform bone, and the anterior annu- lar ligament. The anterior ligament consists of two or more broad bands of ligamentous fibres, which extend from the lower end of the radius, to the first row of carpal bones. The posterior ligament, weaker than the preceding, proceeds from the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius, and is attached to the posterior surfaces of the first row of carpal bones. The synovial membrane lines the under aspect of the triangu- lar fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, is reflected over the several ligaments of the joint, and thence upon the first row of the carpal bones. Joint be- The inner surface of the lower end of the radius ™BE^s P^^«^°ts ^ s^iglit concavity, which rotates upon the OF THE EA- convex head of the ulna : this mechanism is essential mu^AND to the pronation and supination of the hand. These corresponding surfaces are crusted with a thin layer of cartilage, and are provided with a very loose synovial membrane. The joint is strengthened in front and behind hj a thin transverseWRIST-JOINT. 302 ligament, which extends from the anterior and posterior borders of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the styloid process of the ulna. But the principal uniting medium between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage. Fibro-cartilage between the radius and ulna.—Saw through the bones of the forearm, and separate them by cutting through the interosseous membrane, and opening the synovial membrane of the joint between the lower ends. Thus a good view is ob- Fig. 57. 1. External lateral ligament. 2. Internal lateral ligament. 3. Interarticolar fibro-car- tilage. 4. Interosseous liga- ments. 6, Lateral ligaments of the intercarpal joint. BUGEAM OP THE -WEIST-JOINT. tained of the fibro-cartilage which connects them (fig. 57). It is triangular, and placed transversely at the lower end of the ulna, filling up the interval caused by the greater length of the radius. Its base is attached to the lower end of the radius, and its apex to the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is thin at the base and the centre, thicker at the apex and the sides. Its upper surface is in contact with the ulna, and covered by the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar joint; its lower surface,ge"e ' fi" 5)' fi^"^^^ CARPAL BONES. 3g3^ forining a part of the wrist-joint, corresponds to the cuneiform bone. Its borders are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre. "\Mien, from accident or disease, this fibro-cartilage gets de- tached from the radius, the consequence is a preternatural projec- tion of the lower end of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro-carti- lage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is called * memhrana sacciformis: Connection The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows an OF THE PAT?- 1 1 PAL BONES upper and a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form ^theh'^''" between them a joint, connected by anterior, posterior, OTHEB. internal, and external lateral ligaments. The bones, constituting each row, are united by ligaments placed on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others, placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their contiguous sur- faces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted) are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The upper row is united by transverse ligaments proceeding from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform, both on their dorsal and palmar surfaces: also by znterosseous ligaments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it (fig. 57). The pisifo'^^i bone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- fenorly it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone This articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. The lozoerroio of carpal bones is connected in the same way as the upper The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are only two interosseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum ; they are thicker and stronge;304 INTERCARPAL JOINT. The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the J™^^"''^ form of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding con- vex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme. Ex- ternally to the OS magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint capable of flexion and extension only is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by anterior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior liga- ment consists of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The pos- terior ligament consists of oblique and transverse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones (fig. 57). Divide the ligaments, to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilacre, and have a common synovial membrane. This mem- brane extends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac ; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third metacarpal bones. . The trapezium presents a cartilaginous surtace, con- JwbeVtba- vex in the transverse, and concave in the anterior PEziTJM AND posterior direction (i.e. saddle-shaped), which articu- 'ZISIIk. lates with a cartilaginous surface on the metacarpal BONE. -bone of the thumb, concave and convex m the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two surfaces permits the several movements of the thumb, viz., flexion, extension, abduction and adduction ; consequently circumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. The joint is surrounded by a fibrous capsule sufficiently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect The security of the joint is increased by the muscles which surround it. It has a separate synovial membrane.■ METACAKrAL JOINTS. Carpo- The metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected to Str''' *!^' ''''''^ ^^'•P^l bones by ligaments upon their palmar and dorsal surfaces. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone ot the fore-finger has two ; one from the trapezium, another from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has also two, pro- ceeding from the os magnum, and the os trapezoides. That of the nng finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum, and the u:::^r iz:-'^^ ^ the The mr^""Vr"'?.'" '"'"^'^ "^"^1^ ^P°- ^ ^^-il-r plan, bone at?1 r V}.' '""'"^"^^ ^-P--d trr;,- :t "^'^^^^ ^^'^ proceeding from the r r'H tl! fi "^T"' ^^"^^^^ Tbose of the img and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. strSlltd'^'r-'^^ ''^""'"'^^^ °f considerable sti ength, called the ^nterosseous. It proceeds from the adjacent sides of the OS magnum and the os unciforme, descends ver ically and Itlfil^rf ^V''' f .^^^ -^^--P^^ bone of tl\tt imger (fig. 57). This ligament isolates the synovial membrane of W oVZca^^^^^^^^^^^ — ~ -m- relative torm of their contiguous surfaces. The metacarpal bones- of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be almost immovable. The retaca"^ Sir ^rrtr-acCrbTn^of the httle finger; the articular surfaces of each being sLhtlv con cave and convex in opposite directions. The gr X freedL f motion of the metacarpal bone of the little fing" f I'tll to the expansion and contraction of the palm ^'^ The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones of fh. are connected with each nth^. k + , fingeo^sJOINTS or THE FINGERS. 306 by interosseoTis ligaments, which extend between the bones, imme- diately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The digital extremities of tliese bones are loosely connected on their palmar as|.ect by the transverse metacarpal ligament, g Tiiere are six distinct synovial membranes, proper to jiKMDHANEs ^' ^^ lowcr eud of the radius, and the several bones of OF THE the carpus: see the diagram (p. 302). a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. b. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. /. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow First joint ox OF THE oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad FiNGEKs. diameter in the transverse direction, to articulate with the roimd cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral, and a palmar or glenoid ligament. The lateral ligaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The palmar or glenoid ligament. This is a thick, compact, fibro-cartilaginous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the ioint. Its lower end is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger ; its upper end is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the metacarpal bone. OnJOINTS OF THE FINGERS. 307 either side it is inseparably connected with the lateral ligaments, so that with them it forms a strong capsule over the front and sides of tlie joint. Its superficial surface is slightly grooved, to receive the flexor tendons ; its deep surface is adapted to cover the head of the metacarpal bone. Two sesamoid bones are found in the glenoid ligament belonging to the joint between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb. The glenoid ligaments have a surgical importance for the follow- ing reason :—In dislocation of the fingers, the facility of reduction mainly depends upon the extent to which the glenoid ligament is injured. If it be much torn there is but little difficulty : if entire, the reduction is tedious and sometimes impracticable. These joints are secured on their dorsal aspect by the extensor tendon, and the expansion proceeding from it on either side. Their synovial membranes are loose, especially beneath the extensor tendons. Second and "^^^ corresponding articular surfaces of the phalanges LAST JOINT of the fingers and thumb are so shaped as to form a ^G^s. tinge-joint, and, therefore, incapable of lateral move- ment. The ligaments connecting them are similar in every respect to those between the metacarpal bones and the first phalanges. The glenoid ligament of the last joint of the thumb generally contains a sesamoid bone.308 THE ABDOMEN. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Eig. 68. Arbitrary divide the abdomen into arbitrary regions, that division into the situation of the viscera contained in it may be more regions. easily described. For this purpose we draw the fol- lowing imaginary lines: one horizontal across the abdomen on a level with the cartilages of the ninth ribs; another on a level with the anterior spines of the ilia. These lines form the boundaries of three spaces, each of which is sub- divided into three regions by a vertical line drawn on each side from the carti- lage of the eighth rib to the middle of Poupart's ligament. Thus, we have a central and two lateral regions in each space. The central region of the upper space is termed the epigastric or scro- biculus cordis, the central one of the middle space is called the umbilical region, and the central of the inferior space, the hypogastric region. The lateral regions of the spaces from above downwards are termed the right and left hypochondriac, the right and left lumbar, and the right and left inguinal or iliac regions, respectively. The abdomen should be distended with air, by means of a blow- pipe inserted into the abdominal cavity at the umbilicus. An incision should be made from the sternum to the pubes, another from the anterior spine of the ilium to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes, and a third from the ensiform cartilage, transversely outwards towards the axilla as far as theSUPERFICIAL VESSELS OF THE GROIN".- ^QQ angles of the ribs. The skin should then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and areolar tissue, called the 'superficial fascia,' The subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen presents the fS. ^^^^ general characters as that of other parts, and varies in thickness in different individuals. At the lower part of the abdomen, it admits of separation into two layers,, between which are found the subcutaneous blood vessels, the absorbent glands, the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Respecting the superficial layer, observe that it contains the fat, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh, the scrotum, and the perineum. The deeper layer is intimately'con- nected with Poupart's ligament and the linea alba ; but it is very loosely contimied over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the permeum. These points deserve attention, since they explain how urine, extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the ab- domen; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connection of the fascia with Poupart's ligament. Superficial Between the layers of the superficial fascia on the aiTgilndf ^f"" aiid upper part of the thigh, are several absorbent glands and small blood vessels (fig. 59). The glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal and femoral The mgumal, from three to four in number, are often small, and escape observation. They are of an oval form, with their lono- axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch (represented by the dark line in fig. 59). They receive the absorbents from the lower part of the wall of the. abdomen, from the scrotum and perns and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal parietes terminate in the lumbar glands. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One the epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament and ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen, inosculating with the deep epigastric artery; another, the puclic, crosses the spermatic310 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OP THE GROIX. cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum; a third, the circnmfiexa Hit, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium. These subcutaneous arteries, the pudic especially, often occasion a free haemorrhage in the operation for strangulated hernia. The corresponding veins join the saphena vein of the thigh. Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the living sub- Fig. 59. STIPEEFICIAL VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE GROIN. 1. SapTienona opening of the fascia lata. 2. Saphena rein. 3. Superficial epigastric a. i. Superficial circumflexa ilii a. 5. Superficial pudic a. 6. External abdominal ring. 7. Fascia lata of the thigh. ject; but, when any obstruction occurs in the inferior vena cava, they become enlarged and tortuous, and constitute the chief channels through which the blood would be returned from the lower limbs.* * A cast, in illustration of this, is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.311 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves after nelTe"s°°"^ the same plan as the chest; namely, by lateral and anterior branches derived from the lower intercostal nerves. a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and divide into anterior and posterior branches; the anterior supply the skin as far as the rectus; the posterior, the skin ■over the latissimus dorsi. Observe, that the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve is larger than the others, and that it passes over the crest of the ilium to the skin of the buttock. The cor- responding branch of the first lumbar has a similar distribution. h. The anterior cutaneous nerves come with small arteries through the sheath of the rectus. They are not only smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. That which comes throiigh the external abdominal ring (ilio-inguinal), as well as that which comes through the wall ol" the abdomen just above it (the hypogastric branch of the ilio- hypogastric), are derived from the first lumbar nerve. These, however, are but repetitions of the others, and supply the skin of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi of the female.* The deep layer of the superficial fascia should now be removed from the external oblique, by commencing at the fleshy portion of the muscle, and working in the course of ^its fibres. Care must be taken not to remove any of its aponeurosis, which is very thin. The digitations of this muscle with the serratus magnus and latis- simus dorsi must also be made out. Muscles of The abdominal muscles, three on each side, are ntlwatr'' named, after the direction of their fibres, the ' external oblique,' ' internal oblique,' and 'transversalis.' They terminate in front in strong aponeuroses arranged so as to form a sheath for a broad muscle, called the * A third small nerve, namely, the genital branch of the genito-erural, comes through the external ring. It lies behind the cord close to the outer pillar.•^^-^ ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. * rectus,' which extends perpendicularly on each side the linea alba from the sternum to the pubes (fig. 60, p. 314). External "^^"^ muscle arises from the eight or nine lower ribs, obliq™ 3s many pointed bundles, called ' digitations: The upper five of these fit in with similar bundles of the serratus magnns, and are obvious during life; the three lower cor- respond in like manner with the origin of the latissinms dorsi; but they cannot be seen unless the body be turned on the side. The upper part of this muscle descends obliquely forwards, and ter- minates on the aponeurosis of the abdomen; the lower proceeds almost perpendicularly from the last ribs, and is inserted-mio the outer lip of the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium.* The aponeicrosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the abdomen, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. Its tendinous fibres take the same direction as the muscle, and form the ' linea alba' by their decussation in the middle line from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. Poupart's Along the line of junction of the abdomen with the ligament or thigh, the aponeurosis extends from the anterior spine crural arch. ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms an arch over the intermediate bony excavation (p. 317). This, which is termed the crural arch, or, more commonly, Poupart's liga- ment,1f transmits the great vessels of the thigh, with muscles and nerves. Near the pubes is an opening in the aponeurosis for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. It is called the ' external abdominal ring.'' Of this, as well as of the crural arch, you must postpone the more particular examination till the dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The external oblique should be carefully detached * From its position and the direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the external oblique represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of tlie chest. t This was first described by Fallopius, an Italian anatomist, in his ' Observationes Anatomicse,' published in 1561. It was subsequently described by Poupart in 1705, in the 'Mem. de I'Acad. de Pari;,' and is now commonly called 'Poupart's ligament.'ABDOMIN AL MUSCLES, 3] 3 •from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards as far as this can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. The second muscular stratum will thus be exposed, and recognised by the difference in the direction of its fibres which pass upwards and inwards. This muscle arises from the outer half of the crural Sifqm^ ^^'^^ anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the fascia lumborum. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are inserted partly into the abdominal aponeurosis, partly into the cartilages of the three or four lower ribs.* The internal oblique should be detached from the ribs, and from the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards; but that portion of it connected to the crural arch must not be disturbed. In removing- the internal oblique, we are apt to cut away the transversalis. To avoid this mistake, dissect near the crest of the ilium, and endeavour to find an artery which runs between the muscles, and serves as a gaide. This artery, called the deep ' circumflexa ilii; proceeds from the external iliac, and supplies the abdominal muscles. Be- neath the internal oblique the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels are brought into view. These must be preserved. Transversalis. ^^^^ ^^^de arises from the outer third of the crural arch, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this origin the fibres proceed hori- zontally forwards, and terminate in the abdominal aponeurosis. Some of Its fibres arch downwards, and are attached conjointly with fibres of the internal oblique into the pubes. Eectus. T^'^ muscle lies perpendicularly along the front of the abdomen, and is enclosed in a sheath formed by the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles of the abdomen. To expose it therefore, slit up its sheath along the middle, and reflect the two' of *thfche"r°''^ represents in the abdomen the internal intercostal nn,sclesABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 314 halves. It arises by two tendous, the inner of which is attached to the symphysis, the outer, to the crest of the pubes. It is inserted into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. Notice the tendinous intersections aci'oss the muscle called linece transverscB,' which are only incomplete repetitions of the ribs in the wall of the abdomen.'* Their number varies from three to five, but there are always more above than below the umbilicus. These tendinous intersections adhere closely to the sheath in front, but not behind ; consequently, matter formed between the front of the rectus and its sheath would be confined by two intersections; not so on the back of the muscle, for matter might travel down the entire length of it. The sheath of the rectus is composed in front by the aponeurosis Fig. 60. of the external oblique, and half the thick- ness of that of the in- ternal oblique ; f while the back of the sheath comprises the aponeu- rosis of the transversa- lis, and the other half of the internal oblique (fig. 60). This, however, applies only to the up- per three fourths of the muscle; the lower fourth DIAGBAM OF A THANSVERSE SECTION THBOUGH THE Jj^g jjg sheatfa behind. ERECTOR ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. for all the aponeuroses pass in front of it. This small triangular muscle is situated near the Pyramidalis. p^^^gg^ close to the linea alba, and has a sheath of its own. It arises from the upper part of the pubes in front of the rectus, and terminates in the linea alba about midway between the * Some animals—e.g. tlie crocodile—have bony abdominal ribs, t The line where the internal oblique splits—namely, along the outer border of the rectus—is called the linea semilunaris.ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 315 pubes and the umbilicus. It is said to be of use in tightenino- the linea alba, but it does not appear to have any special purpose in the human subject, for it is sometimes deficient on one or even both sides. Linea'ilba Along the middle line of the abdomen the several aponeuroses decussate so as to form a white tendinous line extending from the sternum to the pubes. This is the ' linea alba:' it is but a continuation of the sternum deprived of its earthy matter, in adaptation to the functions of this part of the body. A little below the middle of it, is situated what was in the foetus the opening for the passage of the umbilical vessels. After birth, the vessels being no longer required, the opening gradually closes, and becomes plugged by their fibrous remains. Since the linea alba is the thinnest part of the abdomen, and is free from blood vessels, it is chosen as a safe line for tapping in dropsy, and for puncturing the bladder in retention of urine. By dividing the rectus transversely near the umbilicus, and raising it from its position, we have a complete view of the manner in which the sheath is formed; we observe, too, that this is verv mdistmct behind the lower fourth of the muscle. Eamifying in the substance of the muscle is a large artery, called the ' epigastric ' a branch of the external iliac ; also the continuation of the internal mammary, which descends from the subclavian. Nerves of the ^'tiese nerves are the continuations of the six lower abdominal intercostal nerves, and of the first lumbar. They have the same general course and distribution. They run forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis towards the rectus. They furnish branches to the abdominal muscles, and each gives off its lateral and anterior cutaneous branches' described p. 311. ' Action of the consequence of their stratified arrangement, and itts"' direction of their fibres, the abdomiual muscles answer many important purposes:—!. The abdominal muscles maintain a gentle but effective pressure upon the viscera, and serve to shield them from iujury. The pressure is proved by the fact that the bowels are almost sure to protrude3l(T PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA, through a wound of the abdominal wall. The protection is proved by the hard blow which the abdomen will stand provided its muscles are on their guard; 2, They are the principal muscles concerned in forcible expiration ; 3. By compressing the viscera in conjunction with the diaphragm, they are the chief agents in the expulsion of the fseces and urine, also in vomiting, sneezing, laughing, cough- ing ; 4. They act, each in its own way, as movers of the trunk; e. g. the right external oblique, co-operating with the left internal oblique, can draw the trunk towards the left side, and vice versa. The recti raise the body from the horizontal position, as any one may ascertain by laying the hand on the abdomen while rising from the ground. EXAMINATION OP THE PAETS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. G eral idea Having proceeded so far in the examination of the Jthrsub-^^ abdominal wall, now turn your attention to the anatomy •i®^'^- of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The testicle, originally formed in the loins, passes, about the eighth month of foetal life, from the abdomen into the scrotum, through an oblique canal in the wall of the abdomen, called the ' inguinal canaV A portion of peritoneum is pouched out before the'testicle, and constitutes the tunica vaginalis testis. The blood vessels, nerves, and excretory duct are drawn down after the testicle' and form the spermatic cord. The inguinal canal is valvular and runs obliquely, so that the abdominal wall may the better resist protrusion of the viscera. The wall of the abdomen, as previously stated, is composed of «trata of different structures, and we shall presently find that the spermatic cord, as it passes through each stratum, derives from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first-that is, the aponeurosis of the external oblique-is called the ' aponeurotic stratum ;' the second- that is, the internal oblique and transversalis muscles—is called the 'muscular stratum;'the third—namely, the fascia transversalis,PAETS CONCEKNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 317 which Hues the under aspect of the transversalis muscle is called the * fascial stratum.' The most intelligible way of investigating the subject is to examine each stratum as it appears on dissection, and then to consider the inguinal canal as a whole. First, then, of the aponeurotic stratum. Aponeui-otic lower border of the aponeurosis of the external stratum, and oblique, extending from the spine of the ilium to the dombairing. ^P^^^ constitutes Poupart's ligament, or the crural arch. Above, and somewhat to the outer side of the spine of the pubes, is situated an opening in the apon- eurosis called the ' external abdominal ring,' which varies in size Pig. 61. 1. External abdominal ring. 2. Gimbemat's ligament. 3. Ponpart's Ugament, or outer piUar of the ring. , Internal pillar of the ring. Position of the inter- nal ring, in dotted outline. DIAGKAM OF POUPAEt's LIGAMENT, OF THE APONETJEOSIS OF THE EXTEBNAL OBLIftlVE, AND OF THE EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL EING. and shape in different individuals. In the male it is a triangular opening about an inch long, with its base towards the pubes, and will admit the passage of a finger. In the female it is smaller, and transmits the round ligament of the uterus. It is boundedPARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 318 above and below by the free margins of the aponeurosis, which are called its 'columns or pillars.' The inner or upper pillar is thiu, and is attached to the front of the pubes, and decussates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the symphysis. The outer pillar is thicker and stronger, and has three attachments; one to the spine of the pubes (Poupart's ligament), another for nearly an inch along the linea ilio-pectinea (Grimbernat's liga- ment), and a third (triangular ligament) consists of a few fibres which pass upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar as far as the linea alba, where they are continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side. At the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, there are a number of arched fibres called Hntercolumnar hands,' which are strongest at its lowest part, above the external ring. Their purpose is to strengthen the opening and prevent the ring from enlarging. Attached to the margin of the external ring is a thin fascia, the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, which is prolonged over the spermatic cord, and forms a thin covering over it extending down into the scrotum. The spermatic cord in its passage through the ring rests upon the external pillar. To examine the muscular stratum, the aponeurosis Sr^mlnd of the external oblique must be reflected. This is to cremaster. ^q^q -^y making a transverse incision through it, from the spine of the ilium to the linea alba and another at right angles to it, along the linea alba to the pubes. The triangular flap of aponeurosis is to be reflected and turned downwards, without injuring the external ring or the crural arch. The muscular stratum is now fairly exposed. This stratum consists of the combined fibres of the internal oblique and transverse muscles : these, so far as our present subject is concerned, may be considered as one, having the same origin, direction, and insertion. Their origin is from the outer half of the crural arch ; their direc- tion is transversely towards the mesial hue, and they terminate upon a thin aponeurosis termed the ' conjoined tendon; which is inserted into the upper part of the pubes and the linea alba (fig. 62). This tendon is situated immediately behind the ex-319 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. ternal ring, for the purpose of strengthening the abdominal wall just at a part where, without such provision, the liability to hernia would have been very great. From the middle of the crural arch, and from the lower part of the internal oblique, arises the ' cremaster muscle,' which is thin and pale, or the reverse, according to the condition of the subject. Its fibres descend in front of the cord, and then arch up again towards the pubes, forming a series of loops of different Tig. 62. 1. Conioined tendon of in ternal oblique and transversalis. 2. Cremaster muscle passing down in loops over the cord. DIAGIU3I or THE LOTOE FIBRES OF THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE AND TRANSVERSALIS, WITH THE CREMASTEB MTJSCXE. lengths; some, reaching only as low as the external ring, others lower still, whilst the lowest cover the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. Its nerve comes from the genital branch of the genito- crural, and its artery from the deep epigastric. The internal oblique and transversalis must now be reflected, by making inci- sions similar to those for the reflection of the aponeurosis of the external oblique: this must be done carefully, so as to disturb asPAKT8 CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 320 little as possible the transversalis fascia, which lies immediately behind. The third and last stratum is the fascia, which lies behind the transversalis muscle. It is attached, below, to the crural arch, thence ascends, and gradually diminishing in thickness, is lost on the under surface of the transversalis muscle. Its inner border is connected to the margm of the rectus, to the lower margin of the conjoined tendon, and Fascial etratum. Fig. 63. 1. Internal abdominal ring. 2. Position of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, in dotted outline. 3. Epigastric a. in dot- ted outline. 4,4, Sheath of the femo- ral vessels, con- tinued from the fascia transver- salis. 5. Femoral a. 6. Profunda a. 7. Saphena v. 8, 8. Fascia t ransver- salis. DIAGRAM OF THE FASCIA TBANSVEBSAIIS SEEN FBOM THE FEOKT. also to the pubes. This fascia is strongest just behind the external ring, and but for it and the conjoined tendon, there would be a direct opening into the cavity of the abdomen through the external ring. The outer half of the fascia is very firmly connected to the crural arch, and also to the fascia iliaca; but the inner half is loosely connected with the crural arch, and passes down under it, over the femoral vessels into the thigh, and forms what is called * the sheath of the femoral vessels.'PARTS CONGEllNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 321 Internal ^he opening in the fascia ti'ansversalis through which abdominal the spermatic cord passes, is called the ' internal abdo- minal ring.'* It corresponds to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis and about two-thirds of an inch above the crural arch. It is oval in shape, with the long diameter directed nearly vertically its margm is well defined on the pubic side, but not on the iliac 'and from Its border is continued forwards a funnel-shaped prolongation over the cord as it passes through the opening. This covering, thm and delicate, is termed the ' infundibuliform fascia: (This IS no seen in the diagram.) Close by the inner border of the in- ternal ring, the epigastric artery will be found ascending to enter the substance of the rectus. To see that part of the peritoneum concerned in ing-uinal hernia, he fascia transversalis must be removed by incisions similar to hose i-ecommended before. The fascia is easily separable from the peiitoneum, which is situated immediately behind it The peritoneum at the inner ring presents a well-marked depression which varies however, considerably; in some being scarcel/v s^e T o^^^^^^^ fnguinal'canaUn the form of a pouch. In some instances, a communication will be found still existing between the general cavity of the perZeum and the tunica vaginalis testis. peritoneum Inguinal examined the several strata through which canal. t^e Spermatic cord passes, replace them in their whole YoW^f examine the inguinal canal as'a ndtwafd? tlZZ'^^' obliquely downwards and a haTf f o , ^ well-formed adult male is from one conjoined tendon of fbl T i V '"'^ transversalis and the by he loweTfleshv fib transversalis ; above, below ™i a/ch ' " * Or the inner aperture of the inguinal canal. Y322 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. In a surgical point of view this is one of the most StTous'lff important arteries in the body. It arises from the ex- theepigus- ternal iliac, just before this vessel passes under the tnc artery. ^^^^^ ascends inwards between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, forms a gentle curve round the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on the inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle, in ^yhich it is gradually lost. The artery is accompanied by two veins, of which the larger is constantly found on the inner side of it. They terminate by a single trunk in the iliac vein. Of the branches of the epigastric artery the most Jfthfepi- important is the 'pubic: It runs inwards, behind the gastric. crural arch, towards the pubes, and derives its chief practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded in dividing the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies m different subjects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observa- tion. The second branch is the ' cremasteric: It supplies the coverings of the cord, and chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving off other unnamed muscular branches, the main trunk ter- minates in the rectus by'minute inosculations with the internal mammary. . Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned m inguinal hernia. The description applies equally to the female, provided the round ligament be substituted for the spermatic cord. Of course the inguinal canal is proportionably smaller, and there is no cremaster. , . When a piece of intestine escapes through the inner SZrstS ring, along the inguinal canal with the cord, and pro- kinds of in- trudes through the outer ring, it is called an external* gninal hernia. ^j^^^^^ inguinal hemia. If the intestine stop in the * There is a preparation (No. 83, Ser. 17) in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hos- ™tal qxute to the point. The patient had profuse heemorrhage, which commenced five hours after the operation. He died with peritonitis. I A hLia is Bometimes called external or internal, according o the relationship of thtprotniBion to the epigastxic arteiy; thus, an ohlique mguinal hernia which first protX toough the inner ring is caUed an external hernia, and v.c versa.323 PAllTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. inguinal canal, it is called an incomplete inguinal hernia; such an one is generally of small size, and sometimes difficult of detec- tion. Lastly, if a portion of intestine escape at once through the external ring, then it is called an internal or direct inguinal hernia. Cowrino-s of oblique inguinal hernia has all the coverings of the different the cord. Beneath the skin, therefore, and the sub- hemise. cutaneous tissue there will be— 1. The spermatic fascia, derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. 2. The cremaster muscle, derived from the internal oblique and transversalis. 3. The infundibuliform fascia, derived from the fascia trans- versalis. The incomplete inguinal hernia will be covered by 1. The aponeurosis of the external oblique. 2. The cremaster. 3. The infundibuliform fascia. The direct inguinal hernia will be covered by— 1. The spermatic fascia. 2. The fascia transversalis.* In all cases, or at any rate with very few exceptions, the im- mediate investment of the intestine is the peritoneum. This con- stitutes the sac of the hernia. The opening of the sac, communi- cating with the abdomen, is called its mouth, then comes the neck, and, lastly, the body or expanded part of the sac. Congenital ^"^^ ^^0 Varieties of oblique inguinal hernia, hern^f''''^^^ termed the ' congenital' and the 'infantile,' to which a passing allusion must be made. The congenital] * mat becomes, it may be asked, of the fibres of the conjoined tendon of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis ? They are either protruded before the peritoneum, or permit the hernia to slip between them. t The term ' congenital' applied to this form of hernia is apt to suggest the idea that It occurs at birth. But this is not of necessity so. Although the state of parts favourable to its occurrence exists at birth, the hernia itself may not take place till many years afterwards j in fact, at any period of life. Y 2PARTS CONCERNKD IN INGUINAL HKRN'IA. 324 variety occurs when a protrusion of intestine takes place through the narrow canal, whicli in some cases persists between the general cavity of the peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis testis, in conse- quence of the non-obliteration of the original communication between them. In this variety, the intestine surrounds the tes- ticle, and the hernial sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis testis (fig. 64). The infantile variety is rare, and occurs when the original peritoneal canal alluded to, is only partially obliterated. The result of which is, that the tunica vaginalis testis may reach as high as the external or even the internal abdominal ring. Now in this variety of hernia, the intestine protrudes a sac behind the abnormal extension of the tunica Fig. 64. * vaginalis; so that, in front of the hernia there are three layers of peritoneum; namely, two formed by the tunica vaginalis testis, and one by the hernial sac (fig. 64). Position of The spermatic cord is generally situated behind and spermatic on the outer side of a hernial sac. In some cases, how- cord in refer- ^^^^ ^^^^^^ separates the constituents of the cord, GDC6 CO tile ' _, f* j. i* hernia. so that one or other of these may he on the tront ot the protrusion. The stricture may be seated either at the external Seat of tije internal ring, or at any intermediate part, stricture. g^^^^.^^^g ^^^^^ is a double stricture, one at the ex- ternal ring, the other at the internal. The stricture, however, may be caused by the mouth of the sac itself, independently of the parts outside it; for the peritoneum may become thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unyielding to strangulate the protruded parts. . . We cannot do better than adhere to the golden rule wbTcfthe" laid down by Sir A. Cooper; namely, to divide; the T'l u stricture, in all cases, directly upwards. In this direc- divTded. ' tion, we are least likely to wound the epigastric artery. * rig. 64. The arrows denote the course of the hernia.POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 325 Changes pro- Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an old duced by aa hernia, of some size, will observe that the obliquity hernif inguinal canal is destroyed. The constant dragging of the protruded viscera gradually brings the internal ring nearer to the external, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdomen. But the position of the epigastric artery with regard to the sac remains unaltered. It is still on the inner side of the neck of the sac. In hernia of long standing, all its coverings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertrophied to such an extent, and so altered from what they once were, that they scarcely look like the same parts. Expose the contents of the abdomen, by an incision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes a little to the left side of the linea alba, so as to preserve a ligament, ' ligaraentum teres,' which passes from the umbilicus to the liver, and also a cord, ' the urachus,' which ascends in the middle line from the bladder to the umbilicus; then make another incision transversely on a level with the umbilicus, and turn the flaps outwards. Urachus. ^^^^^^ surface of the lower right flap, the peritoneum is raised into a fold by a fibrous cord, passing from the bladder to the umbilicus ; this is the ' urachus} which in foetal life is a tube connecting the bladder with the allantois. On either side of the urachus are two other folds in- closing cords which ascend obliquely towards the umbilicus: these are the impervious remains of the umbilical arteries. Take now a survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative positions. What is seen ^^S^^ hypochondrium the liver is seen project- Kbdimen '^^^^ ^^^^ Cartilages of the ribs, and omen. fundus of the gall-bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. In the left hypo- chondrium is seen more or less of the stomach. Across the umbilical region extends a broad fold of the peritoneum containing fat, the great omentum, which descends from the lower border of326 POSITION or ABDOMINAL VISCERA. the stomach to the pelvis, forming a curtain over the convolutions of the small intestines. The breadth of this fold varies in different instances, sometimes being so shrunk and crumpled as to be scarcely visible. The lower part of the belly and part of the pelvis are occupied by the small intestines. The urinary bladder is not apparent, unless distended suflBciently to rise out of the pelvis. In the right iliac fossa is the ' caput coli,' the commencement of the large intestine; but the ascending part of the large intestine in the right lumbar region, and the descending part of it in the left, are not visible unless distended: they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. These are the viscera usually seen on opening the abdomen: but a certain latitude is to be allowed, as sometimes more of one organ is seen and less of another, according as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much also depends upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life. The position of each viscus should now be examined posidon'^of separately, and first that of the stomach, each viscus. rj^g stomach is irregularly conical in shape. Its The stomach. ^^^^^ -g gituated in the left hypochondrium; its narrow or pyloric end extends obliquely across the epigastrium into the right hypochondrium, where it is overlapped by the liver. The relative position and size of the stomach vary according to the amount of distention ; when much distended the anterior surface, owing to the greater mobility of the great curve and the pyloric end of the stomach, is turned upwards, and the lower border, forwards. The first part of the intestinal canal is termed ' mtes- Duodenum. ^^^^^ duodenum; because it is about twelve inches long. Commencing at the pyloric end of the stomach (p. 338), the duodenum ascends as high as the neck of the gall-bladder; then, suddenly bending, it descends in front of the right kidney; lastly, making another bend, it crosses the spine obliquely towards the left side of the second lumbar vertebra: here the intestinura 'ieiunum' begins, and this part of the canal may be seen by raising the transverse colon. Thus then, the ' duodenum ' describes327 POSITION or ABDOMINAL VISCERA. a kind of hoi-se-shoe curve, of which the concavity is towards the left, and embraces the large end or head of the pancreas. For convenience of description, the duodenum is divided into an ascen- ding, a descending, and a transverse portion. The first is completely surrounded by a peritoneal covering; the second and third are only covered by peritoneum in front, and are fixed to the back of the abdomen. The relative anatomy of the duodenum will he more fully seen hereafter. Pursuing its course from the left side of the second Ueum!^™ lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the ' mesentery.' Of these convolutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the ' intestinum jejunum;'' the lower three-fifths the 'intestinum ileum.'' This is an arbitrary division. There is no definite limit: the character of the bowel gradually changes—that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. Commence- right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens into ment of large the left side of the colon, which is easily recognised by intestine. sacculated appearance: here the large intestine begins: here is the ilio-cascal valve (fig. 65). Immediately below the junction, the large intestine is expanded into a blind pouch, called the ccecum or caput coli. Into the back part of this pouch opens a little tube closed at the other end, called the ' appendix vermiformis.' This tube is generally three inches long, about as thick as a tobacco-pipe, and is either coiled up behind the csecum, or connected to it by a peritoneal fold, so as to hang loose in the pelvis. The commencement of the large intestine is generally confined by the peritoneum to the iliac fossa, in which it lies."^ Tracing it from this point, it ascends through the right lumbar region in front of the right kidney ; then, crossing the umbilical * But this is not inyariably so. The bowel is, in some subjects, connected to the fossa by a fold of peritoneum or a ' meso-cacum.' I have often seen this fold suf- ficiently loose to allow the caput coli to travel over to the left iliac fossa.POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCliKA. 328 region towards the left side,* it descends in front of the left kidney t down the left lumbar region into the iliac fossa, where it curves like the letter S. These successive portions of the large intestine are termed, respectively, the ascending, transverse, de- scending, and sigmoid parts of its course. Lastly, the bowel enters the pelvis on the left side of the sacrum, and here takes the name of ' rectum.' This term, so far as concerns the human subject, is Fig. 65. 1. Ileum. 2. CBecum or caput coli. 3. Appendix vermiformls. SECTION THROUGH THE JUNCTION OF THE LABGE AND SJIAIi INTESTINE TO SHOW THE ILIO-C^CAi TAI-TE. misapplied ; the canal runs anything but a straight course through the pelvis, for it curves so as to adapt itself to the sacrum. Looking at the entire course of the colon, observe that it forms * This transverse part of the colon, in some instances, makes a coil behind the Stomach to the diaphragm; such a state of things, when the bowel happens to be dis- tended, is apt to give rise to symptoms of diseased heart. See some observations in point by Dr. Copland, in Lond. Med. Gaz. 1847, vol. v. p. 660. t The contiguity of the ascending and descending colon to the right and left kidney respectively, explains the occasional bursting of renal abscesses into the intestinal canal.POSITION OF ABDOMINAL, VISCEKA. 329 an arch, of which the concavity embraces the convolutions of the small intestines. Leno-th of the "^^^ small intestines, including the duodenum, vary alimentary from sixteen to twenty-four feet in length, and the canal. large intestines from five feet to five feet and a half; these measurements are subject to some variation according to the height of the individual. In round numbers, we may say that the small and large intestines are from five to six times the length of the body. The liver "^^^ ^^^^^^ Occupies the whole of the right bypo- chondrium, and extends over the epigastric region mor or less into the left. Unless the individual be very corpulent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its anterior border is sharp and thin; its posterior is broad and connected to the diaphragm by peritoneal ligaments. Its under surface overlays part of the stomach, of the duodenum, of the right kidney, of the transverse coloji, and of the suprarenal capsule : its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm. To this muscle the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called ' ligaments.' One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the ' suspensory,' or, from its shape, the 'falciform' hgament, is situated a little to the right of the mesial line. The free edge of it in front contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein, called the ' round' ligament. The sus- pensory ligament, traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver ; this constitutes the ' lateral' ligament, right or left, according as we trace it on one or other side of the falciform ligament. The junction of the lateral and falciform ligaments is described by some authors as the coronary hgament. Gall-bladder. '^^^ gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile, and is closely confined by the peritoneum in a slight depres- sion on the under surface of the liver. Its lower end or fundus330 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. projects beneath the cartilage of the ninth rib. This is important practically. It sometimes happens that the gall-bladder, in conse- quence of some obstruction to its duct,becomes unusually distended, and occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might be mistaken for an hepatic abscess.* The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duodenum and the transverse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones by ulceration into the in- testinal canal, f The spleen is deeply situated in the left hypo- The spleen, ^^^qj^^j^-^^jq^ between the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Its outer surface is smooth and convex, to correspond with the diaphragm and the ribs; its inner surface, where its great vessels enter, is concave and connected to the great end of the stomach by a peritoneal fold called the ' gastro- splenic omentum: Generally, too, the spleen is connected by a small peritoneal fold, the sus^jensory ligament, to the under aspect of the diaphragm.^ This is the salivary gland of the abdomen. It lies Pancreas. j^gi^iQ^j the stomach, transversely across the spine, about the level of the first lumbar vertebra. Its right end or head is con- tained within the curve of the duodenum : its left end or tail extends as far as the spleen. The further connections and relations of the pancreas cannot in this stage of the dissection be satis- factorily seen. The kidneys are situated in the lumbar region, Kidneys. nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrae; the right being a little lower than the left. They lie imbedded in fat, partly upon the quadratus lumborum, partly upon the psoas. In contact with the right kidney, we have the liver, the second part of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; in contact with the left, are the spleen, the end of the pancreas, and the descending colon. * See cases in point recorfed by Andral, Clin. MW. torn. iv.; and Graves, Dublin Hospital Keport, vol. iv. t See preparations in the Museum, Ser. 16, No. 84. X Every now and then we find in the gastro-splenic omentum one or more little spleens in addition to the large one.331 PEKITONEUM. This body is situated at the top of the Itidney. It eua capsule. ^.^^ upon the crus of the diaphragm. You will see the right renal capsule by lifting up the liver; the left, by lifting up the spleen, and the great end of the stomach, p A certain range of motion being necessary to the abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the ' peritoneum.' This membrane is, like other serous membranes, a closed sac, one part of which lines the con- taining cavity, the other is reflected over the contained viscera. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. In the female, however, it is not, strictly speaking, a closed sac, since it communicates with the cavity of the uterus through the Fallopian tubes. The internal surface of the peritoneum is smooth and polished, and lined by squamous epithelium : the external surface, the subperitoneal tissue, is composed of areolar tissue which connects the internal layer to the invested viscus or abdominal parietes. There is nothing between the parietal and the visceral layers, in other words, inside the sac, but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera are all, more or less, outside the sac; some lie altogether behind it, as the pancreas, kidneys, and renal capsules ; others, as the lower parts of the duodenum, caecum, ascending and descending colon, are only partially covered by it; while others, as the stomach, liver, jejunum, ileum, and some parts of the large intestine, are completely invested by it: these latter push the visceral layer before them, and so give rise to membranous folds ; the larger the fold, the freer is the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. Now trace the peritoneum as a continuous membrane. peritoMi^^^ Since the peritoneum is a perfect sac, it matters not where we begin, for we must come back to the starting point. Supposing, then, a longitudinal section to be made through the viscera in the middle of the body, one might trace the peritoneum thus—beginning at the diaphragm, and taking, for brevity's sake, two layers at a time (fig. 66). From the diaphragm two layers of peritoneum proceed to the332 PliKlTONEUM, liver, forming its lateral ligaments; they separate to inclose the liver, meet again on its under aspect, and pass on, under the name of the gastro-hepatic omentum, to the small curve of the stomach. Separating here they embrace the stomach, and meeting again at its greater curve, pass down as a curtain over the small intestines to form the great omentum. At the lower margin of the great omentum, they are reflected up- wards (so that the great omentum consists of four layers), to the front of the colon, which they inclose, and after joining again at the back of the colon, proceed to the spine, forming: the transverse meso-colon. At this situation the two layers di- verge, the upper one ascends in front of the pancreas, and the crura of the diaphragm to its under surface, at which point we started.* The lower layer is reflected from the spine over the small intestines back again to the spine, to form the mesentery. From the root of the mesentery it descends into the pelvis, and invests the upper two-thirds of the rectum. From the rectum, in the male, it is re- flected to the posterior part of the bladder, forming the recto-vesical * In fojtal life, the ascending layers of the great omentum may he traced hack to the spine near the pancreas ; and here the layers diverge from each other. The upper layer ascends in front of the pancreas to the diaphi-agm ; the lower layer proceeds over the arch of the colon, and th.n back to the spine, thus forming the transverse meso- colon. Its reflections afterwards are the same as in the adult. As the foetus grows, the great omentum heeomes adherent to the arch of the colon. DIAGRAM OF THE PEBITONEUM.PERITONEUM, 333 pouch, and thence to the wall of the abdomen, along which we trace it up to the diaphragm. In the female, it is reflected from the rectum on to about one inch of the posterior wall of the vagina, constituting the recto-vaginal pouch, and thence over all the back, but only about half-way down the front of the uterus, to the posterior wall of the bladder; after which its reflections are the same as in the male. Such is the course of the peritoneum as seen in a longitudinal section, but there are certain lateral reflections which cannot be seen except in a transverse section: thus, from the great end of the stomach, two layers proceed to the spleen, forming the gastro- splenic omentum; from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. The following parts of the alimentary canal are only partially covered by peritoneum : the descending and transverse portions of the duodenum, the caecum, the ascending and descending colon, (with exceptional cases) the lower part of the rectum. Anatomists speak of the lesser cavity of the peritoneum as dis-r tinguished from the greater. This lesser cavity, or sac of the omentum, is situated behind the stomach and the descending laj^ers of the gTcat omentum. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow (which is the constricted communication between the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum), we distend the lesser cavity; it is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, the stomach, and the descending layers of the great omentum; behind, by the' ascending layers of the great omentum, the colon, and the trans- verse meso-colon ; above, by the liver. Poramen of "'"^^^ foramen is the narrow circular opening between Winslow. the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum, through which the two cavities communicate. It is situated behind the ]-ight edge of the gastro-hepatic, or lesser omentum. By passing your finger into it, you will find the foramen bounded above by the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, below, by the commencement of the duodenum, in front by the lesser omentum, and behind by the vena cava inferior. The several folds, formed by the reflections of the peritoneum.rEUlTONEUM. 334 which connect the viscera eithei' to each other or to the back of the abdomen, have now to be examined. Tills is the fold which suspends the small intestines Mesentery. f^.Qj^ back of the abdomen. To see it, raise the great omentum and the transverse arch of the colon. Its attached part or root extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra obliquely across the spine to the right iliac fossa. The loose part of the mesentery curves as it were like a ruffle, and incloses the small intestines from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. Between its layers the mesenteric vessels, nerves, glands, and lymphatics must be made out. This broad fold connects the transverse colon to the Transverse jjack of the abdomen. It forms a sort of partition jneso-colon. . '■ dividing the abdomen into an upper compartment, containing the stomach, liver, and spleen ; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the small intestines. As regards the caecum, the ascending and descending portions of the colon, they, as a general rule, are bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations. It covers only two-thirds or thereabouts of their an- terior surface ; the rest is connected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen.* This broad peritoneal fold is composed of four layers, and proceeds from the lower border of the stomach, omentum. i • r i n • like a curtain over the convolutions of the small intes- tines. Its thickness varies considerably, in thin subjects it is often transparent, while in fat persons, on the other hand, it is loaded with fat, and contributes in great measure to the size of the abdomen. Its length also varies. In some bodies we find it extend- ing far into the pelvis, in others, small and crumpled. This fold passes from the transverse fissure on the hepatic or under surface of the liver to the upper aspect of the lesser omen- gtomach. It is composed of two layers; and between them, we find the vessels and nerves going to, and the * In some (rare) cases, the ascending and descending colon are completely sur- rounded by peritoneum, and connected to the lumbar regions, respectively, by a right and left lumbar meso-colon.335 BKANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. duct copaing from the liver. The right border of this reflected fold is free, while the left passes on to the oesophagus. In this fold the bile-duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the vena portse behind and between them. If the finger be introduced behind the right border, it passes through the foramen of Winslow into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum. This fold proceeds from the great end of the stomach omenuim.^^"''^ *^ spleen, and is continuous below with the great omentum. It contains between its layers, the ' vasa Fig. 66. 1. Phrenic. 2. CEeliac axis. 3. Superior mesenteric. 4. Supra-renal. 5. Benal, C. Spermatic. 7. Inferior mesenteric. 8. Lumbar. 9. Sacra media. BEAJJCHES OF THE ABDOMINAX AOETA. brevia,' branches which proceed from the splenic artery to the great end of the stomach. Branches of next object should be the examination of the the^abdominal arteries which supply the viscera. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and then descending a little to the left side of the front of the336 BRAN'CIiKS OF ABDOMINAL AOKTA. spine, divides opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. In this coarse it gives off its branches in the following order (fig. 66). 1. The phrenic, for the supply of the diaphragm. 2. The cceliac axis, a short thick trunk which immediately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the stomach, the liver, and the spleen. 3. The superior mesenteric, for the supply of all the small in- testines and the upper half of the large. 4. 5. The supra-renal and the renal arteries. 6. The spermatic, for the testicles in the male, and the ovaries in the female. 7. The inferior mesenteric, for the supply of the lower half of the large intestine. 8. The lumbar, a series of branches, analogous to the intercostals, for the supply of the back part of the abdomen. 9. The arteria sacra media, which is given off at the bifurca- tion of the aorta, and runs down in front of the sacrum. These branches are to be traced throughout in the order most convenient. Take the caeliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches, the liver must be well raised, as in fig. 67, and a layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. There is a close network of very tough tissue about all the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system. Of these plexuses, the largest surrounds the cseliac axis like a ring. This is the solar plexus, or more appropriately, the brain of the abdomen, and is formed by the junction of the two semi-lunar ganglia (see dissection of thorax, p. 126). From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch ofi", and surround the following arteries:—the jjhrenic, coronary, hepatic, splenic, superior mesenteric, inferior mesenteric, and renal: the plexus receiving the name of the arteries around which they twine. It requires a very lean subject, and great anatomical dexterity to trace them.BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 337 Ceeliac axis. PLAN OF THE BEANCHES OF THE CELIAC AXIS. / Coronaria ventriculi. (pancreatic branches, gastro-epiploica sinistra, vasa brevia to stomacli. ^Hepatic pyloric. gastro-epiploica dextra. , cystic. pancreatico- duodenalis. omental. Celiac axis ^he caeliac axis arises from the front of tlie aorta, br^nihes ^^^ween the pillars of the diaphragm, just above the upper border of the pancreas. It is a very thick, short trunk, which after a course of about half an inch divides into three branches—the coronaria ventriculi or gastric, the splenic, and the hepatic. The coronaria ventriculi, the smallest of the three, ascends a little to the left towards the oesophageal end of the stomach, where it gives off branches to the oesophagus, which inosculate with the oesophageal offsets of the thoracic aorta. It then curves along the upper border of the stomach towards the pylorus, to anastomose with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery mcends to the right between the layers of the lesser omentum to the transverse lissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, right and left, for the supply of the respective lobes of the liver. In its course to the liver, it lies to the left of the bile duct, and in front of the portal vein; all three are contained in the right border of the lesser omentum. The hepatic gives off— a. The pyloric, which runs along the upper curve of the stomach from right to left, and inosculates with the coronaria ventriculi. 6. The gastro-epiploica dextra, which runs behind the duo- denum, then along the great curve of the stomach, from right to left, and inosculates directly with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a' branch of the splenic. It gives off: 1. The pancreatico duodeualis, which runs down between the head of the pancreas and the de- scendmg part of the duodenum. It supplies branches to each, and'BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 338 inosculates frequently with a similarly named branch of the su- perior mesenteric artery. 2. Branches which descend to supply the great omentum. Fig. 67. Gall- bladder BUe duct. Kidney Descending duodenum Termination of bile-duct -\—Spleen. -Conunenoement of the jejunum. DIAGRAM OF THE BEANCHES OF THE CiELIAC AXIS. (Pancreas in dotted outline behind the stomach.) 1. Coronaxia ventrioull. 2. Splenic a. 3. Hepatic a. 4. Pyloric a. 6. Gaatro-epiploica dextra. 6. Gastro-epiploica sinistra. 7. Tasa brevia. 8. Superior mesenteric a. c. The cystic, commonly a branch of the right hepatic, ramifies on the under surface of the gall-bladder, supplying its coats. The splenic, the largest of the three, proceeds tortuously towards the left side, along the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen, which it enters by numerous branches.VENA POKTiE. 339 Fig. 68. It gives off: 1. Several small branches to the pancreas, pan- creaticce parvce. One, rather larger than the rest, which ac- companies the pancreatic duct, is called pancreatica magna. 2. The gastro-epiploica sinistra, which runs to the right along the great curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. 3. Vasa brevia, which proceed between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, where they communicate with branches . from the coronaria ven- triculi. Thus the stomach is sup- plied with blood by four channels, which by their inosculations form a main artery along its lesser curve, another along its greater; from these, numerous bran- ches are furnished to both sides of the stomach. The artery of the greater curve also sends down numerous branches to the omentum, which form a beautiful net- work between its layers. The advantage of this free in- osculation of arteries about the stomach must be apparent. Venaportse: The Veins which return the blood from the abdomi- HaS: ^ °f alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen, have this peculiarity, that they do not empty themselves into the vena cava, but all unite into one great vein, called the ' vena portse,' which ramifies throughout the liver, and DIAGEAM OF THE VENA TOBT^. (The arrow is introduced behind the free border of the lesser omentum.)BRANCHES OP ABDOMINAL ACUTA. 340 secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena portae itself is from three to four inches long. By tracing it downwards you find that it is formed behind the great end of the pancreas, by the confluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins (fig. 68). In its pas- sage to the liver, the vena portae is accompanied by the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, lying behind and between them. Traced upwards you find that at the transverse fissure of the liver it divides into two branches corresponding to the two great lobes of the organ. The vein ramifies in the substance of the liver like an artery, and is inclosed with branches of the hepatic artery and duct in a sheath called ' Glisson's capsule.' The vena portae may, then, be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the branches spread out in the liver. After receiving the veins corresponding to the branches of the hepatic artery, the vena portae returns its blood into the inferior vena cava through the venae cavae hepaticae. The veins which empty themselves into the vena port« are also peculiar, in that they have no valves. Therefore, if any obstruc- tion arise in the venous circulation through the liver, the roots of the portal vein are apt to become congested: this is a common cause of haemorrhoids, diarrhoea, haemorrhage from the bowels, and ascites. Leeches applied to the anus have been long recognised as beneficial in congestion of the liver. The hepatic duct is composed of two trunks, one from Bile-duct. Yobe and the other from the left: it is soon joined by the cystic or the duct from the gall-bladder. The common duct, ' ductus communis clwledochus; thus formed, passes along the right edge of the lesser omentum, then behind the first portion of the duodenum, and opens obhquely into the back part of the second portion (p. 338). This common duct is from three to four inches long, and, if distended, would be about the size of a small writing quill. The great omentum, with the arch of the colon, must now be turned up over the chest, and the small intestines should be pushed towards the left side. Then, by removing a layer of peritoneum from the mesentery, we expose the mode in which the superior341 BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 'mesenteric artery ramifies so as to supply the small intestines. In ■making this dissection, the mesentei-ic glands immediately attract notice. They lie in great numbers between the layers of the mesentery, and vary considerably in size. The fine tubes, called lacteal vessels, which traverse the glands, are too thin and trans- Fig. 69. 1. Superior mesenteric a. 2. CoUca media. 3. Colica dextra. 4. neo-colica. 6. Inferior mesenteric a. 6. Colioa sinistra. 7. Arteria sigmoidea. 8. Superior hcemorrhoidal a. PLAN OF THE MESENTERIC AETEEIES, ANB THEIR COMMUNICATION. parent to be seen under ordinary circumstances. But in cases where sudden death has taken place during digestion, they are found distended with chyle, and can be traced into the glands from all parts of the small intestines.* After traversing the glands, they all eventually empty their contents into the receptaculum' chyli (p. 122). ^ Superior ^^^^ ^^^g^ ^"'^ery descends beneath the pancreas, over mesenteric the transverse part of the duodenum (p. 338\ and then artery and ^in „ vl^'-'/'s "-^^ mcu branches. "^"^^ between the layers of the mesentery towards the right iliac fossa, where it terminates in branches for the .LZ;ZTC1^^, extremely wen displayed in theBRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 342 supply of the caecum. Thus its course describes a gentle curve from left to right. It gives off the following branches: 1, the pancreatico duodenal branch, given off close to its origin, runs up to inosculate with a similar named branch of the hepatic artery; 2, branches to the small intestines from ten to sixteen in number are given off from the left or convex side of the curve; while from the concave side come, 3, the ileo-colic; 4, the right colic; and 5, the middle colic arteries for the supply of the upper half of the large intestines. The student should now trace the branches to the small intes- tines,, in order to see the beautiful series of arches which they form by their miutual inosculations. There are three or four tiers of them, each tier composed of smaller and more numerous branches than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are the ileo-colic, which is the continiiation of the main trunk, and divides into two branches; one supplies the lower part of the ileum, and the other the csecura :—the right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon, and the middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the meso-colon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small intestines ; that is, they inosculate so as to form a series of arches which successively decrease in size and finally ter- minate in circles round the bowel. The superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pan- creas, and forms the vena portee (p. 339). To trace this artery,the small intestines must be drawn interic Zevj over towards the right side, and the peritoneum covering and branches, the artery removed. It is given off about two inches above the bifurcation of the aorta. Descending into the pelvis over the left common iliac artery, it passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of superior hsemorrhoidal is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branchesBRANCHES Or ABDOMINAL AOllTA. 343 are: 1, The colica sinistra, which crosses over the left kidney and supplies the descending colon ; 2, the sigmoidea, which is distributed to the sigmoid flexure; and 3, the superior hcemorrhoidal, which supplies the rectum, and will be dissected with the side view of the pelvis. These inosculate in the form of arches. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media, so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal (fig. 69). The inferior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas. To see the relations of the duodenum and the pancreas, two ligatures about an inch apart should be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, and two others at a similar distance apart on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The intestines should be cut through between each set of ligatures, and the intermediate portions of the small and large intestines removed. By turning up the stomach we expose at once the horse-shoe course of the duo- denum round the great end of the pancreas. The duodenum (p. 338) commences at the pyloric end of Duodenum. ,, , i V, ■ ■, the stomach, and termmates on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It is divided into three parts, an ascending, de- scending, and transverse. The first portion ascends obliquely as high as the neck of the gall- bladder ; then making a sudden bend, it descends in front of the right kidney as low as the third lumbar vertebra. Lastly, making another bend it ascends obliquely across the spine to the left side from the third to the second lumbar vertebra : here the canal takes the name of jejunum. Thus the duodenum describes a horse-shoe curve, the concavity of which is towards the left side, and embraces the head of the pancreas. The first part of the duodenum is completely invested by peritoneum, and is comparatively loose, that the movements of the stomach may not be restricted. The second and third parts are- only covered by peritoneum in front. Into the descending portion, the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct empty themselves, either by separate or conjoined openings.344 KIDNEYS AND URETER. Pancreas '^^""^ ^^^^^ salivary gland of the abdomen is situated immediately behind the stomach (p. 338). It is of an elongated form, and is placed transversely across the spine; its larger end, or head, is embraced by tlie duodenum; its lesser is in contact with the spleen. The splenic artery and vein run along the upper border of the gland; the lower border is in relation with the transverse portion of the duodenum, from which it is separated by the superior mesenteric vessels. Posteriorly the pancreas rests upon the inferior vena cava, the left kidney, the left supra-renal capsule, and the commencement of the vena portce. Its duct runs from left to right near the lower border and anterior surface of the gland, and empties itself into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, conjointly with, or close to, the opening of the common bile duct. It receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies im- mediately beneath it, and others from the gastro-epiploica dextra. The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen, should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the Kver, the venae cav£e hepaticse, and the branches of the cseliac axis. These viscera, with the re- mainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated in water, while you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen; namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta, the inferior vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympa- thetic nerve. The kidneys are placed in the lumbar region, one on Se7' ^""^ each side of the spine. They lie imbedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum, and psoas muscles, nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrfB. On the top of each is situated a little body, called the supra-renal capsule. The excretory duct of the kidney, or ureter, descends almost vertically on the psoas muscle, enters the pelvis over the division of the common iliac artery, and empties itself into the lower part of tlie bladder after running obliquely through its coats.345 DIAPHRAGM. In front of the right kidney is the liver, the ascending colon, and the vertical portion of the duodenuni; in front of the left, the descending colon, part of the spleen, and pancreas. This ex- plains how it is that a renal abscess or calculus is sometimes evacuated by the rectum. The kidneys and supra-renal capsules must be removed and reserved for further examination. Two large ganglia, the semilunar, are now to be searched for in the solar plexus. They are situated on each side of the c£eliac axis, in the neighbourhood of the supra-renal bodies; that on the Fig. 70. 1. Aorta passing be- tween the crura. 2. Opening for oeso- ptagua. 3. Opening for vena cava. Qnadratus Inm- borum. Psoas magnug. The darlc arohea are the ' arcu- late ligaments.' BIAGRAM OF THE DIAPHBAGM, THE OPENINGS IN IT, AND THE PHBENIC AETEEIES. right side will be found lying under the vena cava inferior. They are more or less oval, and filaments are distributed to the supra- renal and renal plexuses, and to the plexuses which surround the branches of the abdominal aorta. Above it is connected with the great splanchnic nerve (p. 126). This is a partly muscular and partly tendinous arch, Diaphragm, so constructed as to form a complete movable partition between the chest and the abdomen; a floor for the one, and a roof for the other. Its upper or thoracic surface is convex; its lower or abdominal, concave. To see the structure of the arch, its peritoneal lining must be removed. We thenDIAPHRAGM. 346 observe that there is a broad tendon in the centre, and that muscular fibres converge to it from all sides (fig. 70), The dia- phragm arises, 1. From the ensiforro cartilage; 2. From the inside of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by as many digitations, which correspond with those of the transverse muscle of the abdomen; 3. In the interval between the last rib and the spine, it arises from two thin tendinous arches, called respectively, the ligamenta arcuata {externum and internum). The external arch extends from the last rib to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and arches over the quadratus lumborum ; the internal passes from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of the same vertebra, and arches over the psoas; lastly, it arises from the front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra by two elongated bundles, called the crura of the diaphragm. Both crura have tendinous origins ; the right crus is, however, a little longer than the left; for the former arises from three or four upper lumbar vertebrae and their intervening cartilages, whereas the left does not descend so low by one vertebra. Between the two crura, the aorta enters the abdomen. From these various origins the fibres ascend, at first nearly vertically, and then all arch inwards, and converge to be inserted into the central tendon. The central tendon is nearly the highest part of the diaphragm. It presents a beautiful gUstening surface, owing to the crossing of its fibres; and its sliape may be rudely compared to that of a trefoil leaf. The chief point of interest about the tendon is, that, in consequence of its connections with the pericardium, beneath which it lies (p. 115), it is always maintained nearly on the same level; so that it lielps to support the heart, and serves as a fixed point for the insertion of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm. There are three large openings in the diaphragm for Openings the transmission of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the *«^ia- • j^fgj.iQ,, ^g^a cava respectively. The aortic opening Ues ^ between the crura in front of the spine; it transmits, also, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, both of which lie rather to the right side of the aorta. Trace the crura upwards, and ob-347 DIAPHRAGM. Ka;. 71. serve that the inner fibres of each cross each other in front of the aorta, somewhat like the letter X.* Just above the crossing, and a little towards the left side of it, is the oesophageal opening; this is entirely muscular, and transmits the oesophagus and the pneumo- gastric nerves. The opening for the vena cava is situated in the central tendon, rather to the right of the middle line: observe that the vein is in- timately connected to its margin, so that it may be kept permanently open. Lastly, there pass through the crus, on each side, the sympathetic, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. The nerves of the dia- phragm are the phrenic . (p. Ill), and the five or six lower intercostal nerves on each side. Its blood vessels are the two phrenic, derived from the aorta, the internal mammary (p. 103), and the lower intercostal. The diaphragm is the great muscle concerned in in- spiration. Truly it may be said with Haller, that it is ' musculus post cor nobilissimus.' During inspiration the muscular sides of the diaphragm contract, and become less arched (as shown by the dotted line in fig. 71); the floor of the chest smks in consequence, and more room is made for the expansion of the lungs. During expiration the diaphragm relaxes, and the air is expelled partly by the elasticity of the lungs and the thoracic walls; partly by muscular action. This alternate falling and rising * This decussation is not invariable. But the right crus always crosses more or less over the left, so that the crura are never strictly parallel. DIAPHEAGM FBOM ITS TJPPEK SUEFACB. (The dotted lines show how much it descends when it contracts.) Function of the dia- phragm.348 PSOAS MAGNUS. of the diaphragm constitutes the mechanical part of the breathing. But the diaphragm conduces to the performance of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it as- sists in the expulsion of the faeces and the urine, also in parturi- tion and in vomiting: for in all these operations, we first take in a deep breath, that the diaphragm may be in a state of con- traction, and so form a resisting surface, against which the viscera may be compressed by the abdominal muscles. Moreover, by its rapid or spasmodic contractions it is one of the chief agents con- cerned in laughing, sneezing, coughing, hiccough. The muscles and nerves at the back of the abdomen must be carefully cleaned; also, the abdominal aorta, and vena cava inferior in front of the spine, without injuring the sympathetic nerves, situated on each side of the bodies of the vertebrae. The sheath which invests the psoas should be examined, and the branches of the lumbar plexus preserved as they emerge from the outer part of the muscle. The sheath of the psoas is attached to the sides of the vertebrae, the brim of the pelvis, and above to the ligamentum arcuatum internum. It is this sheath which determines the ordinary com-se of a psoas abscess, namely, beneath the crural arch into the upper part of the thigh; for it is a rare exception when the matter travels into the pelvis. This long muscle arises from the bodies and trans- Psoas verse processes of the last dorsal and the lumbar magnus. vertebrae, and their intervening fibre-cartilages; but observe, only from the projecting borders of the vertebrae, not from the central grooved part: here the fibres arise from a tendi- nous arch thrown over the lumbar vessels. The muscle descends vertically along the brim of the pelvis, beneath the crural arch into the thigh, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the back part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. As it passes under the crural arch, the tendon of the psoas lies immediately over the capsule of the hip-joint, and there is a large bursa between them to facilitate the play of the tendon. It should be borne in mind, that occasionally, even in young subjects, butILIACUS INTERNUS AND ILIAC FASCIA. 349 more frequently in old ones, in consequence of -wear and tear, this bursa communicates with the capsule of the hip-joint. The fact is interesting; for it explains how a psoas abscess some- times makes its way into the hip-joint; a result almost always fatal. Once in about eight or ten subjects there is a small parvus. muscle called the jpsoas 'parvus. It arises from the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, and the inter- vening cartilage; thence descending in front of the great psoas, it soon ends in a long iiat tendon, which spreads out, and is inserted into the brim of the pelvis. Iiiacus in- ■^'^^^ muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is covered tenms and by a fascia. This iliac fascia, as it is called, is attached Hiac fascia. ^^^^t^ ilium, and indirectly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. But its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch; here it is directly continuous with the fascia trans- versalis (p. 320), so that together they present an effectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* To return to the muscle. It arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligament,! also from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres pass beneath the crural arch, and are inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one. The combined action of the psoas and iiiacus is to assist in raising the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh: this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. But supposing the fixed point to be at the spine, then the muscle can raise and rotate the femur outwards. * The iliac fossae are very liable to be the seat of suppvu-ation, and the course which the matter takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia. If the matter be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia, it usuaUy advances just above the crest of the ilium, or else towards the groin through the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the chances are that the matter wiU make its way under the crural arch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh. t This ligament extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the ilium.QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 350 It is this action which is so troublesome to counteract in fractures of the upper third of the femur. This muscle extends from the crest of the ilium to lumborum ^'^^ contained in a sheath formed for it and its by the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis (p. 314). sheath. rpj^g anterior layer of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and tlie pos- terior layer to their summits. The muscle, broader below than above, arises from about an inch and a half of the crest of the ilium and from the ilio-lumbar ligament: it ascends nearly per- pendicularly, and is inserted into the last rib, and into the front of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae by as many tendinous slips. In addition to these, a few fibres frequently take origin from the transverse processes, and run up to the last rib, crossing the front of the other part of the muscle. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.* By raising the qnadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis from the summits of the transverse processes: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the erector spinae. Before examining the course of the aorta and its great primary divisions, notice that a chain of absorbent glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, following nearly the course of the great blood vessels. Generally speaking they are small; only one here and there attracts obser- vation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower bmbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the * The respective attachments of the quadratus lumborum, the crossing of its fibres, and its mode of action, lead to the inference that it is a large intercostal muscle. It is worth remembering that the outer edge of the quadi-atus lumborum, in a well-grown adult, is about three inches from the spines of the lumbar vertebrje, and midway be- tween the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It is just oiitside the edge of this muscle that we can cut down to open the large bowel without wounding the peritoneum.3,51 PHRENIC ARTERIES. receptaculum chyli, or the beginning of the thoracic duct (p. 122). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. Eelations of "^^^ ^^^'^^ enters the abdomen between the crura of the abdomi- the diaphragm about the last dorsal vertebra, and nal aorta. descends a little to the left side of the mesial line in front of the spine, as low as the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two common iliac arteries. The exact point of division cannot be specified with precision, because it varies in diiferent subjects. But for all practical purposes it is sufficient to know that its division takes place about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. The aorta is crossed in front by the splenic vein, the pancreas, the transverse por- tion of the duodenum, and the left renal vein. To the right side of it lie the vena cava inferior, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. On each side are situated the sympathetic nerves. The branches of the aorta still to be examined, arise from it in pairs—namely, the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. See diagram (p. 335). Phreni ^^^^'^ arteries supply the diaphragm, and arise arteries. separately, or by a common trunk, from the aorta as soon as it comes through the pillars (p. 345). The right phrenic passes outwards, behind the vena cava, the left behind the oesophagus, and both ascend to ramify extensively on the under aspect of the diaphragm. Their first branches are to the supra- renal capsules; after which, each divides into two branches: an internal, which supplies the anterior part of the diaphragm; and an external, distributed to the outer part of it. They inosculate with each other, with the internal mammary, and the intercostal arteries. The right phrenic vein terminates in the inferior vena cava; the left, in the renal vein, when not in the vena cava. The capsular arteries proceed to the renal capsules. The capsular veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava: on the left in the renal.LUMBAR ARTERIES AND BRANCHES. 352 „ , The renal arteries arise from the aorta at right Eenal . . , . ■, -r. aperies and angles, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are veins. covered by their corresponding veins. The right is necessarily longer than the left, and passes beneath the vena cava. Each, after sending a small branch to the supra-renal body, enters its kidney, not as one trunk, but by several branches, correspond- ing to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and crosses over the aorta; it receives the spermatic, capsular, and sometimes the phrenic veins of its own side. The spermatic arteries arise from the front of the Sef and aorta, a little below the renal. They descend along the veins. psoas, behind the peritoneum, and then through the inguinal canal to the testicle. In the female, the corresponding arteries proceed between the layers of the broad Hgament to the ovaries. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite and then empty themselves, on the right side, into the vena cava; on the left, into the renal vein. There are five of these arteries on either side: four art^rSand arise from the aorta, the fifth comes from the arteria branches. gacra media. They are strictly repetitions of the inter- costal arteries on a small scale, so that ' lumbar intercostals' would be an appropriate name for them. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebra towards the intervertebral foramina, and then, like the thoracic intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes accompanied by the posterior branches of the corresponding nerves, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of the muscles of the back which they supply. They also send arteries into the spinal canal, some of which are distributed to the Cauda equina, and others to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. • The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadratus lumborum, except the last, which usually runs in front. AfterCOMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 353 supplying the quadratus and psoas, they are lost in tlie wall of the abdomen.* The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava in- ferior. The arteria sacra media, a diminutive continuation of the aorta, proceeds from its bifurcation, and runs down in front of the sacrum to the coccyx. In animals it is the artery of the tail. It sends off the fifth lumbar artery, and lateral branches, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries; it also supplies small vessels to the posterior part of the rectum. Its vein empties itself either into the left common iliac vein, or into the inferior vena cava. The vena cava inferior is formed by the iunction of Vena cava .i . . ^ , inferior. ^'^^ ''WO common iliac veins. It ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diaphragm, the vena cava passes off a little to the right, to go through its tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and reach the right side of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are—in front, the mesentery, the third part of the duodenum, the pancreas and liver; behind, the right renal artery, the right lumbar arteries, and part of the sympathetic of the right side. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic (the left joins the renal), the renal, the capsular, the right phrenic, and the hepatic veins. Common iliac common iliac arteries resulting from the ARTERIES AND bifurcatiou of the aorta opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, diverge from each other at an acute angle, towards the sacro-iliac symphysis, and after a course of about two inches, divide into the external and internal iliac. They lie close to the vertebras, and each, at or near its point of division, is crossed by the ureter; the left is crossed by the colon, and by the inferior mesentery artery. * Just as the thoracic intercostals, hy communicating with the internal mammaiy, form a vascular ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by commxmicating with the epigastric, form a vascular ring, though less perfect, round the walls of the abdomen. A A354 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The right lies upon the right and left common iliac veins, and is in relation also with the inferior vena cava. The relations of these arteries are interesting in a practical point of view; and the most important one is their position with regard to their corresponding veins. By reason of the close connections of the right iliac artery with the right and left iliac veins, it is easier to pass a ligature round the left artery than the right. With the parts before you, consider what would be the easiest way of performing this operation. Several modes have been. recommended. Upon the whole, the best authorities* agree that the artery is most accessible from behind. An incision should be made perpendicularly from the end of the last rib to the ilium; another transversely along the margin of this bone nearly to its spine. We then cut, layer after layer, through the abdominal muscles till the peritoneum is exposed; this is easily raised from the iliac fascia, and with it the ureter is raised too. The applica- tion of the ligature is, after all, the most delicate part of the operation. It ought to be placed, as near as possible, midway between the origin and the division of the artery, so that there may be room enough for the formation of a clot on either side.f This artery passes along the brim of the pelvis, on SlclmY. the inner side of the psoas, and then running under the crural arch about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, takes the name of femoral. The corresponding vein lies close to its inner side, and on a posterior * Consult some observations in point by Sir P. Crampton, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. t It is important to be aware that the length of the common iliac artery is apt to vary in different persons. I have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half inches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain, beforehand, what will be its length in a given instance, for there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the adult individual. It is often very short in men of tall statiu-e, and vice versd. Anatomists generally describe the left as rather longer than the right; but, from the examination of 100 bodies, I conclude that their average length is the same.EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 355 plane. The artery, with its vein, is bound down upon the psoas by a thin layer of fascia derived from the iliac. There are two other circumstances of practical interest respecting this artery: 1. A slender nerve, the genito-crural, runs close to its outer side ; 2. Just before it leaves the pelvis it is crossed by the circumflexa ilii vein. The branches given off by this artery are :— The epigast7'ic, already described (p. 322). The circumflexa ilii, which arises just above the crural arch, and running towards the spine of the ilium in a sheath formed for it by the fascia iliaca, subsequently perforates the transversalis muscle.* In the dissection of the abdominal muscles (p. 313), the continuation of it was seen skirting the crest of the ilium between the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal iliac. How to tie The easiest way of tying the external iliac is to make ^l|e^extemal a curved incision at the lower part of the abdomen, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending a Httle beyond the spine of the ilium. The strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversalis, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum must be separated by the fingers from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessel, to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely connected to its inner side,t and that the genito-crural nerve is not far off. * The coui-se of this artery should be borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses. t This relative position of the vessels must not always be taken for granted. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iliac artery runs very tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the brim of the pelvis. But the vem does not foUow the artery in its windings, and may possibly lie outside the artery just where we propose to place the ligature. ^ The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by ..IT A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery, in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says: 'I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, in356 LUMBAR PLEXUS. The general plan upon winch the sympathetic nerve Sympathetic arrano-ed, has been noticed in the dissection of the NERVE. ° ' neck (p. 99). The lumbar portion of it must now be examined. The abdominal part of the sympathetic descends on either side, in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has a ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. These ganglia are connected with one another hy small filaments, and each ganglion receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, just as in the chest. They give off filaments, of which some twine round the aorta, and accompany the inferior mesenteric and spermatic arteries to the large intestine and the testicle; but the greater number terminate in the hypogastric plexus. The hypogastric plexus is situated between the com- Hyi^ogastric -^q-^ i^jac arteries, on the last lumbar and first sacral "dIcxus. • vertebrae. It consists of an inextricable interlacement of nerves, partly sympathetic, and partly spinal, and is a sort of nerve centre for the supply of the pelvic viscera. Tracing it for- wards, you find that it is continued on in two divisions, one for each side of the pelvis. The minute filaments proceeding from each division accompany the visceral branches of the internal iliac artery of their respective sides, and supply the bladder, prostate gland, and rectum; and in the female, the uterus and vagina. Thus we have the vesical, hsemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal plexuses. Of these, however, none are seen in an ordinary dis- section. No ganglia are found in the hypogastric plexus. LiTjiBAK "^^^^ plexus is formed by the union of the anterior PLEXUS OF branches of the four upper lumbar nerves. The fifth NEBVEs. lumbar does not form part of this plexus, but joins the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then di\-ided them. Next, with my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the artery.'LUMBAR PLEXUSi 357 the sacral plexus under the name of the lumbo-sacral cord. The plexus lies over the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, embedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be dissected away before it can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves composing it successively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and generally arise in the following order (fig. 72). ■ " The first lumbar nerve generally divides into two branches; the upper being commonly the ilio-hypogastric, the lower, the ilio-inguinaL They cross obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium, and then separate. The ilio-hypogastric passes through the transversalis, a,nd divides into its two terminal branches; the iliac branch, which supplies the skin over the glutaeal region, and the hypogastric branch, which runs forwards between the transversalis and internal oblique, and then perforates the aponeurosis of the external oblique in the hypogastric region to supply the skin. The ilio-inguinal perforates the transversalis and internal oblique, comes out through the external abdominal ring in front of the spermatic cord, and supplies the skin of the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh is generally derived from the second lumbar. It runs through the psoas, then, crossing obliquely over the iliacus towards the spine of the ilium, passes beneath the crural arch, and is finally distributed to the skin on the outside of the thigh. If the external cutaneous be not found in its usual situation, look for it as a distinct branch of the anterior crural, nearer the psoas muscle. The genito-crural nerve is of small size, and generally comes from the second lumbar. After perforating the psoas, it runs down along the outer side of the external iliac artery, and near the crural arch divides into the genital branch (g), which runs through the inguinal canal, on the under aspect of the spermatic cord, and supplies the cremaster; and the crural (e), which proceeds under the crural arch, and is lost in the skin of the upper part of the thigh, where it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve.LUMBAR PLEXUS. 358 The anterior crural (cZ), the largest and most important branch, is generally formed by the union of the third and fourth lumbar. It descends in a groove between the psoas and the iliacus, supplies both these muscles, and then, passing under the crural arch, is finally distributed to the extensor muscles, to the sartorius and pectineus, and the skin of the thigh. The obturator nerve (/) is next in size to the anterior criiral. It proceeds from tbe third and fourth lumbar nerves, descends along the brim of the pelvis to the obturator foramen, and is dis- tributed to the adductor muscles of the thigh. The accessory obturator nerve is by no means a constant branch, but when present, comes from the obturator or third and foiu-th lumbar nerves. It descends over the horizontal ramus of the pubes, and supplies the pectineus on its under aspect.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 359 Postponing the minute anatomy of the abdominal viscera, begin the examination of the contents of the pelvis. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. The purposes of the pelvis are to protect its own viscera; to support those of the abdomen; to give attachment to the muscles which steady the trunk; to transmit the weight of the trunk to the lower limbs, and to give origin to the muscles which move them. In adaptation to these functions, the form of the pelvis is that of a perfect arch, with broadly expanded wings at the sides, and projections in appropriate situations to increase the leverage of the muscles. The sacrum, impacted between the ilia, repre- sents the key-stone of the arch, and is capable of supporting not only the trunk, but great burdens besides. The sides or pillars are represented by the ilia; these transmit the weight to the heads of the thigh bones,, and are thickest and strongest just in that line, i.e. the brim of the pelvis, along which the weight is transmitted. Moreover, to effect the direct transmission of the weight, the plane of the arch is oblique. This obliquity of the pelvis, its hollow expanded sides, its great width, the position and strength of the tuberosities of the ischia, are so many proofs that man is adapted to the erect posture. The general conformation of the pelvis in the female is modified, so as to be adapted to utero-gestation and parturition. Its breadth and capacity are greater than in the male. Its depth is less. The alae of the iliac bones are more expanded. The projection of the sacrum is less perceptible, and consequently the brim is more circular. Above all, the span of the pubic arch is wider. The bones, too, are thinner, and the muscular impressions less strongly marked. The cavity of the pelvis being curved, the axis, or a central Kne drawn through it, must be curved in proportion. For all practical purposes, it is sufficient to remember that the axis of3G0 CONTENTS OF THE MALE PELVIS. the pelvis corresponds with a line drawn from the anus to the umbilicus.* Contents of '^'^^^ pelvis contains the last part of the intestinal THE MAXE canal, named the ' rectum,' the bladder with the pros- PELvis. ^^^g gland at the neck, and the vesiculse seminales. If the bladder be empty, some of the small intestines will be in the pelvis; not so if the bladder be distended. The rectum enters the pelvis on the left side of the SiTrectiim sacrum, and, after describing a ctirve corresponding with the concavity of the sacrum, terminates at the anus. In the first part of its course, it is loosely connected to the back of tlie pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the ' meso-rectum:' be- tween the layers of this fold the terminal branches (superior hemorrhoidal) of the inferior mesenteric vessels with nerves and absorbents run to the bowel. It is worth remembering that the rectum does not take this course in all cases; sometimes it makes one, or even two lateral curves. In some rare cases it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrange- ment cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction of bougies.f Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, introduce the Recto-vesical gjiggr into what is called the recto-vesical ^peritoneal pouch (fig. 73). This is a cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in passing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of the bladder. In the adult male subject, the bottom of this pouch is about one inch distant from the base of the * In a well-formed female the base of the saeriun is about four inches higher than the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelns is greatest in early life. In the foetus, and in young childi-en, its capacity is small; and the viscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen. t In old age the rectum has sometimes a zig-zag appearance immediately above the anus. These lateral inclinations are probably produced by the enormous distentions to which the bowel has been occasionally subjected.KECTO-VESICAL POUCH. 361 prostate gland: * therefore part of the under surface of the bladder is not covered by peritoneum; and since this part is in immediate contact with the rectum, it is practicable to tap the distended bladder through the front of the bowel without injuring the peritoneum. The operation has, of late years, been revived, and with great success.f It is easily done, and not attended with risk, provided all the parts be in their regular position. But this is not always the case. It sometimes happens that the peritoneal Kg. 73. Symphysis pubis . Corpus oavernosmn penis Glaus penis . . . Corpus spongiosum urethra. . . . Bulb of corp. spon- giosum . . . . Cowper's gland with duct Membranous part of urethra sur- rounded by com- pressor muscle. Prostate gland . L- Peritoneum in dot- ted outline. Ureter. Vas deferens. Vesicula seminalis. DIAGEAM OF THE EELATIVE POSITION OP THE PEIiVIC TISCEBA. pouch comes down nearer to the prostate than usual—we have seen it in actual contact with the gland; so that in such a case it would be almost impossible to tap the bladder from the rectum without going through the peritoneum. In children the peri- toneum comes down lower than it does in the adult, because the bladder in the child is not a pelvic viscus. The recto-vesical pouch is permanent. But there is another * The bottom of the pouch is from three to four inches distant from the anus, t See a paper in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. by Mr. Cock.362 MALE PERINEUM. peritoneal pouch on the front part of the bladder, which is only produced when the bladder is distended. To produce it, the bladder should be blown up through one of the ureters. It soon fills the pelvis, and then, rising into the abdomen, occasions the pouch in question between it and the abdominal wall. At first, the pouch is shallow, but it gradually deepens as the bladder rises. Now, if the bladder be distended half way up to the umbilicus, which is commonly the case when it has to be tapped, we find that the bottom of the poucli would be about two inches from the sym- physis pubis (fig. 73). Within this distance from the symphysis, the bladder may be taj)ped in the linea alba, without risk of wounding the peritoneum. Thus, the surgeon has the choice of two situations in which he may tap the bladder—above the pubes, or from the rectum. Which of the two be the more appropriate, must be decided by the circumstances of the case. DISSECTION 0¥ THE MALE PEEINEUM. Before dissecting the perineum, it is expedient first to examine the osseous and ligamentous boundaries of the lower aperture of the pelvis. Looking at the male pelvis (with the ligaments preserved), we ob- serve that this apertiire is of a lozenge shape; that it is bounded in front by the symphysis of the pubes, laterally by the rami of the pubes and ischium; be- hind, by the coccyx and the great sacro- ischiatic ligaments. This space, for convenience of descrip- tion, we divide into two by an imaginary line drawn from one tuber ischii to the other. The anterior forms a nearly eqvii- lateral triangle, of which the sides are from three to three and a half inches long; and since it trans- mits the urethra, it is called the urethral divison of the perineum. DIAGEA.M OF THE TBAMEWOEK OF THE PEHINEUM.MALE PERINEUM. 363 The posterior, containing the anus, is called the anal division (fig. 74).* The subject is to be placed in the usual position for litbotomy, with a full-sized staff in the bladder, the rectum moderately dis- tended with tow, and the scrotum raised by means of hooks. Observe that a central ridge, named the 'raphe,' extends from the anus, along the perineum, scrotum, and under surface of the penis. Between the tuberosities of the ischia and the anus are two depressions, marking out the ischio-rectal fossae, which are found immediately beneath the skin, filled with fat. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the incision should commence an inch and a quarter above the anus, close to the left side of the raphe; it should be carried downwards and outwards for three inches, to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the anus. In the bilateral operation, the incision is semi-lunar, the horns being made on either side between the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these points respectively; while the centre of the incision runs about three-quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus the skin becomes finer and more deli- Anal glands. J. n • 11 cate, forming a gradual transition towards mucous membrane : during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skin at the margin of the anus is richly provided with minute glands,t which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the faeces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cutaneous folds are apt to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured; and then defecation becomes exceedingly painful. The skin should be reflected, by making an incision Subcutaneous ^^^^^ ^-^^ ^^^^^ margin of the anus to the coccyx. Two others must be made on each side at right * It is well to bear in mind, that the dimensions of the lower outlet of the pelvis are apt to vary in different subjects, and the lithotomist must modify his incisions accordingly. t These glands are the analogues of the anal glands in some animals, e.g. the dog and the beaver. They are found not only about the anus, but also in the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum, a fact for the demonstration of which we are indebted to Professor Quekett. They are large enough to be seen with the naked eye.MALE PERINEUM. 364 angles to the first, the one at the upper, and the other at the lower end of it. The skin of the perineum must then be reflected out- wards. In reflecting- the skin, we have to notice the characters of the subcutaneous structure.* Its characters alter in adaptation to t-he exigencies of each part. On the scrotum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely, and for obvious reasons, absent; while the fibro-cellular element is most abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, as we recede from the scrotum, and ap- proach the anus, the fat accumulates more and more, Fat in iscliio- g^^^j either side of the rectum it is found in the shape rectal fossae. . of large masses, filling up what would otherwise be two deep hollows in this situation—namely, the ischio-rectal fossae. These fossae are triangular, with their bases towards the skin, and their apices at the divergence of the obturator internus and levator ani. They are about two inches in depth, and are much deeper posteriorly than in front. The purpose of this accumulation of fat on each side of the anus, is to permit the easy distention and con- traction of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the fseces.f Over the tuberosities of the ischia, we meet with large masses of fat, separated by tough, fibrous septa, passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are one or more large bursce, interposed between this padding and the bone. So much respecting the general characters of the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. It may, indeed, be divided into as many layers as we please, according to our skill in dissection; but this only complicates what is, in itself, simple. * The probable thickness of this subcutaneous tissue is a point which ought to be determined by the lithotomist in making his first incision. Its great thickness in some cases explains the depth to which the surgeon has to cut in letting out matter from the ischio-rectal fossa. t It is this fat in the ischio-rectal fossse which renders them so liable to the occur- rence of peculiarly foetid gangrenous abscesses. These should be opened as early as possible, lest they burst into the rectum; and one sees how deep the knife must be introduced, in order to reach the seat of the mischief.MALE PEKINEUM. 365 The cutaneous sphincter ani must now be cleaned; care being taken not to remove any of its fibres. Posteriorly, the lower border of the glutseus maximus must be displayed, and the vessels and nerves crossing the perineum, towards the anus, carefully dis- sected. Cutaneous cutaneous sphincter of the anus arises from the sphincter point of the coccyx, and from the ano-coccygeal liga- ment. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are inserted in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum (p. 367). Jt is called the cutaneous sphincter, to dis- tinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated nearer to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous cutaneous vessels and nerves of the perineum vessels and Come from the internal pudic artery and nerve, and nerves. chiefly from that branch of it called the ' superficicdis jperinei: This will be traced presently. Besides this, a cutaneous nerve is distributed to these parts from the lesser ischiatic, called the long pudendal nerve (p. 367). It comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the skin of the perineum' and scrotum. Crossing transversely through the ischio-rectal fossa, from the ramus of the ischium towards the anus, are the externcd or in- ferior hcemorrhoidal arteries. These come from the pudic (which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium), and running in- wards, supply the rectum, levator ani, and sphincter ani. The nerve which accompanies the artery comes from the pudic, and supplies the sphincter ani and the skin of the perineum. Superficial subcutaneous fascia of the perineum is composed flsdaoTthe ^ superficial and a deep layer. The superficial perineum. layer contains more or less fat, and is continuous with that of the scrotum, the thighs, and the posterior part of the perineum. The deeper layer is best demonstrated by blow- ing air beneath it with a blow-pipe ; its connections are as follow : — It IS attached on either side to the anterior lip of the ramus of366 MALE PERINEUM. the pubes and ischium; traced forwards, it is directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; traced backwards, we find that at the base of the urethral triangle it is reflected beneath the transversus perinei muscle, and joins the ^ deep perineal fascia' or * triangular ligament' These connections explain the reason why urine efifused into the perineum, does not make its way into the ischio-rectal fossae, or down the thighs. Remove the fascia to see the muscles which cover the bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis. The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the perineum, and is covered by a strong muscle, called ' accelerator urinse.' The crura penis are attached, one to each side of the pubic arch, and are covered each by a muscle, called ' erector penis,' A narrow slip of muscle, called ' transversus perinei,' extends on either side from the tuber ischii to the central tendinous point of the perineum. This point is aboxit one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and serves for the attachment of muscular fibres from all quarters of the peri- neum. Thus the muscles of the perineum describe on each side a triangle, of which the sides are formed by the accelerator urinae and the crus penis respectively, and the base by the transversus perinei. Across this triangle run up from base to apex the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. External to the ramus of the ischium is seen a nerve, the long pudendal, a branch of the lesser ischiatic, perforating the muscular fascia of the thigh. The superficial perineal artery proceeds from the peJinfar^ internal pudic as it runs up the inner side of the tuber vessels and jgcijii^ Though the main trunk cannot be seen, it can nerves. ^^^.^^ ^^^^ pressing the finger against the bone. The artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, and then passes up the perineal triangle, distributing branches to all the muscles, and is finally lost on the scrotum. The only named branch is a muscular one, called ' transversalis -perinei' (p. 367). This is given off near the base of the triangle, and runs with the transversus perinei muscle towards the central point of the perineum. It is necessarily divided in the first incision inMALE PEKINEUM. 367 lithotomy, and deserves attention, because it is sometimes of con- siderable size. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which are frequently di- lated and tortuous, especially in diseased conditions of the scrotum. The nerves, two in number, are derived from the internal pudic, follow the course of their corresponding arteries, and give off Fig. 75. MUSCLES, WITH STJPEKFICLLL VESSELS AND NEBTES, OF THE PEHINErar. similar branches. They not only supply the skin of the perineum and scrotum, but each of the perineal muscles. The long pudendal nerve, a branch of the lesser ischiatie,MALE PERINEUM. 368 makes its exit through the muscular fascia of the thigh, a little above the tuber ischii. It ascends nearly parallel to the ramus of the ischium and pubes, and dividing into filaments, supplies the skin of the perineum and scrotum. This muscle embraces the bulb of the urethra. It Accelerator arises from a fibrous median raphe beneath the bulb, and from the tendinous centre of the perineum. Start- ing from this origin, the fibres diverge and are inserted as follows: —The upper ones proceed on either side round the corpus caver- Fig. 76. Corpus oavernoBum Corpus spongiosum Upper fibres . . Middle fibres . . ■COWPERS Lowerfibres ^^^^Tr mncu L AR Tendinous centre of perineum ^^^^ "-/cament DIAGRAM TO SHOW THE ACCBLEEATOE TJEIN.S; IN PEOFILE. nosum penis, like the branches of the letter V, and are fixed on its upper surface: the middle completely embrace the bulb, like a rincr and meet in a tendon on the upper surface of the urethra ; the°lower are fixed to the anterior surface of the deep penneal fascia (fig. 76). Thus the entire muscle acts as a powerful compressor of the bulb and expels the last drops of urine from this part of the urethra. By dividing the muscle along the middle Une and turn- ing back each half, its insertion, as above described, can be clearly made out.MALE PER1NEU3I. These muscles are moulded, one upon each crus of penis"^^'' penis. Eacli muscle arises from the inner surface of the tuber ischii : the fibres ascend, completely cover- ing the crus, and terminate on a strong aponeurosis, which is inserted into the external and inferior aspect of the crus. The action of these muscles is to compress the root of the penis, and so to contribute to the erection of the organ. Transversi ^^^^^ muscles are of insignificant size, and sometimes periner""^' absent. They arise, one on each side, from the tuber ischii, and proceed towards the central point of the perineum, where they are blended with the fibres of the accelerator" urin^. This muscle with its artery is divided in lithotomy. The next stage of the dissection consists in reflecting and re- moving the accelerator uriniB from the bulb of the urethra, the erector penis with the crus penis from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the transversi perinei muscles. This done, the triangular ligament or ' deep perineal fascia' is fairly exposed. Triangular Understand that the 'triangular ligament of the theurlrl ^^^'^^^^' the deep perineal fascia are synonymous ■ terms. _ The triangular ligament, shown in fig. 77, is a strong and re- sisting membrane stretched across the upper part of the pubic arch. On each side it is firmly attached to the posterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium; superiorly, i.e. towards the symphysis of the pubes, it is connected with the sub-pubic liga- ment ; inferiorly, it does not present a free border, but is connected to the tendinous centre of the perineum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia under the transversus perinei muscle (p. 367). This ligament, by most anatomists, is described as composed of two layers, an anterior and a posterior, between which the membranous portion of the urethra is situated. The anterior layer becomes continuous below with the superficial perineal fascia; the posterior is a part of the pelvic fascia, and is lost upon the prostate. _ The membranous part of the urethra runs through the triangular ligament about one inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture B B370 MALE PERINEUM. for it does not present a distinct edge, because the ligament is prolonged forwards over the bulb, and serves to keep it in position. Kg. 77. Crus penis . Crus penis with its ar- tery cut tlirough . EamiiB of the pubes Artery of tlie bulb . . Cowper's gland . . . Pudio artery . . . . Tuber iBChii . . . . DIAGRAM TO SHOW THE TRIANGTJiAB LIGAMENT OF THE URETHBA. The triangular ligament is very important surgically Points of sur- ° ° gical interest, for these reasons :— 1 Here we meet with difficulty in introducing a catheter, unless we can hit off the right track through the ligament. The soft and spongy tissue of the bulbous part of the urethra in front of371 MALE PERINEUM. the ligament readily gives way, if violence be used, and a false passage results. Fig. 78. Compressor urethrEe . . Membraoous part of the urethra siuTouuded by its compressor muscle. Prostate gland . . . Anterior fibres of the le vator ani .... BUeKAM OF THE PAETS BEHIND THE TEIANGTJXAB LIGASODNT OP THE UKETHEA. (The anterior fibres of the levator ani are hooked down to show part of the prostate; the rest is tracked by a dotted line.) 2. By elongating the penia, we are much more likely to hit off the proper opening through the ligament. 3. When, in retention of urine, the urethra gives way anterior ]1 7! 2MALE TERINEUM. 372 to this ligament, it is this which prevents the urine from travel- ling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossa: nor can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it is into the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration takes place behind the ligament, the matter is pent up and should he speedily let out; if not, it will find its way into the cellular tissue of the pelvis and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. The ligament is partially cut through in lithotomy. The parts divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy are: the skin, the superficial fascia, the transverse perineal muscle, vessels and nerve; the accelerator urinse, the anterior fibres of the leva- tor ani,the compressor urethrse, the triangular ligament, the mem- branous and prostatic parts of the urethra, and a small portion of the prostate. The anterior layer of the triangular ligament must What Hes j^q^ cut away to see what Ues behind it. These parts kyrrroflhe are shown in fig. 78; namely : 1, the membranous part of triangular ^Yie urethra, surrounded by, 2, the compressor urethrae ligament. ^^^^^^. 3^ Cowper's glands; 4, the pudic artery and its three terminal branches, i.e. the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis. To obtain the best perineal view of the compressor urethrae muscle, cut through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only necessary to raise the bulb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtamed by making a transverse section through the rami of the pubes, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 79. This muscle surrounds and supports the urethra in Compressor passage beneath the pubic arch. It arises from the ramus of the pubes on either side; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the urethra, along the whole length- of its.-membranous part. It forms a complete muscularMALE PEKINEUM. 373 covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly through its agency that we retain the urine. This muscle is the chief cause of spasmodic stricture of the urethra.* Catheter DorBal nerve of the penis . Dorsal artery of the penis . Dorsal vein of the penis . Anterior layer of triangular ligament ..... Ramus of pubes cut through Posterior layer of triangular ligament: part of the pelvic fascia ..... Fig, 79. toUGBAM OF THE EEI.ATIONS OF THE COMPBESSOE UEETHE^ SEEN FBOM ABOVE. * The compressor urethrae was first accurately described and delineated by Santorini (septemdec tabute) and afterwards by MuUer in his monograph (Ueber die organ. Nerv. der mannlich. Geschlechtsorgane)MALK PERINKUM. 374 These glands are imbedded, one on either side, im- ^Sr'^ " "mediately behind the bulb, in the substance of the com- ^^^^ ^' pressor urethrte. Each consists of a cluster of Httle glands. Their collective size is about that of a pea, but it varies in different individuals. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens into the under surface of the bulbous part of the urethra (p. 377). Their use is to furnish a secretion accessory to generation. The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac, and its It leaves the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, branches. winds roiind the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis through the lesser ischiatic notch, and then runs along the inner side of the tuber ischii up towards the pubic arch. About an inch and a half above the tuber ischii, we can feel the trunk of the pudic artery; but we cannot see it, nor draw it out, for it is securely lodged in a fibrous canal formed by the obturator fascia. Traced upwards, it runs between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and divides into three principal branches; the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis (fig. 78). The external hsemorrhoidal and superficial perineal branches have already been described (p. 366). The artery of the hidh is of considerable size, and passes trans- versely inwards; it runs through the substance of the compressor urethra?, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends a small branch to Co^vper's gland. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in lithotomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high m the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, sup- posing the reverse, the artery cannot escape; and its size is such that it might occasion alarming hsemorrhage. If it be asked, how often does the artery run along a dangerous level ? about once m twenty subjects; and there is no possibility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. The artery of the crus penis is given off after that of the bulb.MALE PERINEUM. 375 It ascends for a short distance under cover of the arch, but soon enters the crus. To see the dorsal artery of the penis, the penis naust be dis- sected from its attachment to the symphysis pubis. The artery should be traced running upon the dorsum of the penis down to the glans. It forms a complete arterial circle round the corona glandis, and gives numerous ramifications to the papillae on the surface. The pudic nerve comes from the sacral plexus, and xuciic n6rv6 corresponds both in its course and branches with the artery. It gives off its external or inferior haemorrhoidal, and its superficial perineal branches—a small one to the bulb, and another to the crus penis; but the main trunk of the nerve runs with the artery along the dorsum of the penis to the glans (p. 373). In its passage it supplies the integuments of the penis, and sends one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. This part of the penis also receives nerves from the sympathetic system. This is the deep hollow on each side between the Iscmo-EECTAi^j^^g and the tuber ischii. When all the fat is removed from it, observe that it is lined on all sides by fascia. Introduce the finger into it to form a correct idea of its extent and boundaries. Externally, it is bounded by the tuber ischii and the fascia covering the obturator internus muscle; internally, by the rectum, levator ani and coccygeus; posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus; anteriorly, by the transversus perinei. The fossa is crossed by the external haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. ^ These deep recesses on each side of the rectum explain the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain. The matter can. be felt only through the rectum. Nothing can be seen outside. Perhaps nothing more than a little hardness can be felt by the side of the anus. These abscesses should be opened early; else they form a large cavity, and may burst into the rectum.SIDE VIEW OE THE PELVIC VISCERA. 376 ANATOMY OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. To make a side view of the pelvic viscera, the left innominate bone should be removed thus:—Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis ; saw through the pubes about two inches external to the symphysis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis ; now draw the legs apart, and saw through the base of the spine of the ischium; after cutting through the pyriformis, the great sacro-ischiatic ligament and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone can be easily detached. This done, the rectum should be distended with tow, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder. You have already seen how the peritoneum passes from the front of the rectum to the lower part of the bladder (forming the recto-vesical pouch), and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall of the abdomen. You see where the distended bladder is bare of peritoneum, and that it can be tapped either through the rectum or above the pubes without injury to the serous membrane, as shown by the arrows in fig. 80. The peritoneal connections of the bladder are called menTsoft'he its false ligaments; false in contradistinction to the Madder. ^^^g^ which are formed by the fascia of the plevis, and really do fasten the neck of the bladder in its proper position. The false ligaments are five in number, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior are produced by two peritoneal folds, one on either side the recto-vesical pouch, over the fibrous remains of the umbilical arteries ; the two lateral by reflections of the peritoneum from the side of the pelvis to the side of the bladder; the superior is produced by the passage of the peritoneum to the abdominal wall, and contains the urachus and obliterated umbilical arteries. To expose the pelvic fascia, the peritoneum must be Pelvic fascia. ^.g^Q^g^j fj-om that side of the pelvis which has not377 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. been disturbed : in doing so, notice the abundance of loose cellular tissue interposed between the peritoneum and the fascia, to allow the bladder to distend with facility. Whenever urine gains access to this cellular tissue, it is sure to produce the most disastrous consequences; therefore in all operations on the perineum, it is of the utmost importance not to injure this fascia. Fig. 80. VEBTICAl SECTION THROUGH THE PEEINBUM AND PELVIC VISCEBA. The pelvic fascia is a thin but strong membrane, and constitutes the true ligaments of the bladder, and the other pelvic viscera, supporting and maintaining them in their proper position. Examine first, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached ; secondly, the manner in which it is reflected on the viscera. Beginning, then, in front (fig. 81), the fascia is attached to the body of the pubes; thence, we trace its attachment along the side'SIDE VIEW OP THE PELVIC VISCERA. 378 of the pelvis, just above the obturator foramen, to the greater ischiatic notch: here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis muscle, and is lost on the sacrum. From this attach- ment the fascia descends as far as a line drawn from the spine of the ischium to the symphysis pubis. Along this line, which corre- sponds with the origin of some of the fibres of the levator ani, the fascia divides into two layers, an inner, called the recto-vesical fascia-, an outer, called the obturator fascia. The obturator fascia is the continuation of the pelvic fascia, and runs down on the inner surface of the obturator internus,379 SIDE VIEAV or THE PELVIC VISCERA. forming, at the same time, a slieatli for the pudic vessels and nerve. It is attached to the arch of the pubes, and to the tuber- osities of the ischia. From this fascia is derived the anal fascia Avhich lines the lower surface of the levator ani, and is subse- quently lost upon the rectum. The recto-vesical fascia descends on the upper or internal sur- face of the levator ani to the bladder and prostate. From the pubes it is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, to form, on either side of the symphysis, two well-marked bands— the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it is reflected on to the side of the bladder, constituting the lateral true ligaments of the bladder, and incloses the prostate and the vesical plexus of veins. A prolongation from this liga- ment incloses the vesicula seminalis, and then passes between the bladder and the rectum, to join its fellow from the opposite sides. The pelvic viscera are so surrounded by veins and POSITION OF loose areolar tissue, that he who dissects them for the THE PELVIC first time will find a difficulty in discovering their THE M^c^ definite boundaries. The rectum runs at the back of the pelvis. The bladder lies in front of the rectum, immediately behind the symphysis pubis. At the neck of the bladder is the prostate gland through which the urethra passes. In the cellular tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on each side, a convoluted tube called the ' vesicula seminalis ;' and on the inner side of each vesicula, is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before describing these parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the large tortuous veins which surround them. ^, Beneath the pelvic fascia about the prostate and the iIgxus of veins about ^^^^^ ^he bladder, are large and tortuous veins, which neckof"^"*^ form the prostatic and the vesical plexuses. They bladder. empty themselves into the internal iliac. In early life they are not much developed, but as puberty ap- proaches, they gradually increase in size; and one not familiar with the anatomy of these parts would hardly credit the volume which they sometimes attain in old persons. They communicate380 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. freely with the inferior haemorrhoidal plexus, or veins about the anus, and they receive the blood retui-ning from the penis through the large veins which pass under the pubic arch. This is one of the reasons why the prostatic plexus is so capacious. Fig. 82. SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. (Taken from a Photograph.) 1. External sphincter. 2. Internal sphincter. 3. Levator ani cut through. 4. Accelerator uriuEe. 5. Membranous part of the urethra, sur- rounded by compressor muscle. 6. Prostate gland. 7. Vesicula seminnlis. 8. Ureter. 9. Vos deferens. 10. Crus penis divided. 11. Triangnlar ligament. 12. Superficial perineal fascia. 13. Eectum. If, in lithotomy, the incision be carried beyond the limits of the prostate, the great veins around it must necessarily be divided : these, independently of any artery, are quite sufficient to occasion serious haemorrhage.SIDE VIKW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 38! Eeetiim rectum enters the pelvis on the left of the sacrum, intestinum and describes a curve corresponding to the axis of the rekdons pelvis. Before its termination, the bowel curves down- wards so that the anal aperture is dependent. The rectum is not throughout of equal calibre. Its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis: and, immediately above the sphincter, it presents a considerable dilatation (fig. 80). This dilatation is not material in early life, but it increases as age advances. An adequate idea of it cannot be formed unless the bowel be fully distended. Under such circumstances the rectum loses altogether its cylindrical form, and bulges up on either side of the prostate and the base of the bladder. For this reason the rectum should always be emptied before the operation of litho- tomy. The upper part of the rectum is connected to the sacrum by a fold of peritoneum termed ' meso-rectumJ In this fold, the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery with its vein runs up to supply the bowel. Below the meso-rectum, the gut is connected to the sacrum and coccyx by loose cellular tissue, which allows its easy distention. The rectum is supported by the leva- tores ani, the larger portions of which are inserted into its side. The relations of the front part of the rectum,—that, namely, included between the recto-vesical pouch and the anus—are most important. Supposing the forefinger to be introduced into the anus, and a catheter in the urethra, the first thing felt through the front wall of the bowel is the membranous part of the urethra (fig. 82). It lies just within the sphincter, and is about ten lines in front of the gut. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hard- ness ; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. Still higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the ' trigone ' of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distention of the bladder ; the more distended the bladder, the382 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practi- cally important. Tliey explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction, —whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it in contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hiemorrhoidal arteries. The superior come from the inferior mesenteric (p. 341); the middle and in- ferior from the pudic artery. The superior and middle haemor- rhoidal veins join the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system; the inferior haemorrhoidal veins join the internal pudic. They are very large and form a very tortuous plexiis about the lower part of the rectum. Having no valves, they are Uable to become dilated and congested from various internal causes; hence the frequency of haemorrhoidal affections. This viscus, being a receptacle for the urine, must Bladder. necessarily vary in size, and accordingly the nature of its connections and coats are such as to permit this variation. When contracted, the bladder sinks into the pelvis behind the pubic arch, and is completely protected from injury. But, as it gradually distends, it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and, in cases of extreme distention, may reach nearly up to the umbilicus.* Its outline can then be easily felt through the walls of the abdomen. The form t of the distended bladder is oval, and its long axis, if produced, would pass superiorly through the umbiHcus, and inferiorly through the end of the coccyx. The * When the bladder is completely paralysed it hecomes like an inorganic sac^^d there seems to be no limit to its distention. Haller found m a drunkard the bladder 0 dilated that it wovM hold twenty pints of water. (Elem. ^y^^^'.J^^;l Frank saw a bladder so distended as to resemble asc tes, and evacuated f«,mit twelve tiounds of urine. (Oratio de Signis morborum, &c. &c. Ticmi 1788.) ^ W Hunter, in his Anatomy of the Gravid Uterus, has given the representation of a bladder distended nearly as high as the ensiform cartilage. , , • „ t In all animals with a bladder, the younger the a.imal the more elongated- the bladder This is indicative of its original derivation from a tube, i.e. ihe urachu.. Li ielnfant, the bladder is of a pyriform shape, as it is. permanently, in the quad- nJped but as we assume more and more the perpendicular attitude, the weight of the urine gradually makes the lower part more capacious.383 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. axis of a child's bladder is more vertical than in the adult; for in children, the bladder is not a pelvic viscus. This makes lithotomy in them so much more difficult. The quantity of urine which the bladder will hold without much inconvenience varies. As a general rule it may be stated at about a pint. A good deal depends upon the habits of the individual; but some persons have, naturally, a very small bladder, and are obliged to empty it more frequently. In young persons the lowest part of the bladder is the neck, or that part which joins the prostate. But as age advances, the bottom of the bladder gradually deepens so as to form a well or pouch behind the prostate. In old subjects, more particularly if the prostate be enlarged, this pouch becomes of considerable depth, and renders micturition tedious. It sometimes happens that a stone in the bladder cannot be felt; the reason of which may be that the stone, lodged in such a pouch below the level of the neck of the bladder, escapes the detection of the sound. Under these circumstances, if the patient be placed on an inclined plane with the pelvis higher than the shoulders, the stone falls out of the pouch, and is easily recognisable.381 SIDE VlliW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. This tube, about eighteen inches long, conveys the Ureter. ^^..^^ ^^.^^^ ^^^^ kidney to tlie bladder. In the dissection of the abdomen we saw it behind the peritoneum, descending along the psoas muscle, and crossing the division of the common iliac arteries. Tracing it downwards, in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, we find that it runs along the bladder, external to the vas deferens, and enters it about an inch and a half behind the prostate, and about two inches from its fellow of the opposite side (fig. 82). It perforates the bladder very obliquely, so that the aperture, being valvular, allows the urine to flow into, but not out of the organ. The narrowest part of the ureter is at the vesical orifice; here, therefore, a calculus is more likely to be detained than at any other part of the canal. This tube conveys the seminal fluid from the testicle Vas deferens. .^^^ prostatic part of the urethra. It ascends at the back part of the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal into the abdomen; then leaving the cord at the inner ring, it curves downwards over the side of the bladder, gradually approach- ing nearer the middle line. Before it reaches the prostate it passes between the bladder and the ureter; then, becoming very tortuous, it runs internal to the vesicula seminalis, and is jomed by the duct of this vesicle. The common duct thus formed (ductus communis ejaculatorius) terminates in the lower part ot the prostatic portion of the urethra (fig. 73, p. 361). In point of size and hardness, the vas deferens has very much the feel of whipcord. These are situated, one on either side, between the Vesicute ^i^(ider and the rectum (fig. 82). Each is a tube, semmales. convoluted that, it looks like a little sacculated bladder. When rolled up, the tube is about two and a half mches long; when unravelled, it is more than twice t^^f l^^f^' abou the size of a small writing quill. Several blind tubes, or c^cal prolongations, proceed from the main one, after the manner385 SIDE yiEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. of a stag's Lorn. The vesiculsB seminales do not run parallel, but diverge from each other posteriorly, like the branches of tlie letter V; and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens, into which it leads. The function of the vesiculse seminales is to serve as reservoirs for the semen. They contain a brownish-coloured fluid, presumed to be ia some way accessory to the function of generation.* Prostate '^^^ prostate gland is situated at the neck of the gkndf ^ bladder, and surrounds the first part of the urethra (p. 394). In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chesnut. Its apex is directed forwards. It is sur- rounded by a plexus of veins (p. 379), and is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (p. 378> Its upper surface is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis: its apex is about one inch and a half from the anus; the base is about two and a half. Above the prostate are the anterior ligaments of the bladder, with the dorsal vein of the penis between them; below, and in contact with it, is the rectum; on each side of it is the levator ani; in front of it we have the membranous part of the urethra (sm-rounded by its compressor muscle), and the triangular Kga- ment;, behind, are the neck of the bladder and the vesicular seminales with the ejaculatory ducts. The transverse diameter is about one inch and a half; the vertical is about half an inch less. But the gland varies, in size at diflferent periods of life. In the child it is not developed, or at all events is very small: it gradually grows towards puberty, and generally increases in size with advancing age. To ascertain the size and condition of the prostate durino^ life the bladder should be at least half full: the prostate is'^then pressed down towards the rectum, and more within reach of the finger. Anatomy of "^^^ urethra is a canal about eight inches in length, the urethra and leads from tlie bladder to the end of the penis. * The resicul« seminales are imperfectly developed tiU the age of puherty. In ^ child of tliree years of age they can hardly be inflated with the blowpijDe. C C386 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. in its passage It is divided into three portions—the prostatic, the Sic 2ch membranous, and the spongy. At present we can only examine the relations of the membranous part, which comprises that part of the canal intermediate between the pros- tate and the bulb. The urethra in this part is about one inch in leno-th, but somewhat longer on its upper than its lower surface, in consequence of the encroachment of the bulb. In its passage tinder the arch of the pubes, it is surrounded by the muscular fibres of the compressor urethrse. It traverses the two layers of the triangular ligament, and is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and nearly the same distance from the rectum; it is not, however, equidistant from this portion of the intestine at all points, because of the downward bend which the rectum makes towards the anus.* . . The membranous part of the urethra in children is very long, owing to the smallness of the prostate at that period of life; it is also composed of thin and delicate walls, and lies close to the rectum. In sounding a child, therefore, it is very necessary not to use violence, else the instrument is Ukely to pass through the coats of the urethra and make a false passage. This muscle supports the anus and lower part ot the Leyator ani. ^.^^^^^ a sling; and, with the coccygeus and com- pressor urethra, forms a muscular floor for the cavity of the pelvis. To see it, the pelvic fascia must be reflected from its inner sur- face. It arises from the ramus of the pubes near the symphysis, from the spine of the ischium, and from a tendinous hue extend- ng"n a gentle curve between these points of bone ; this hne being h! divisfon of the pelvic fascia (p. 378). From this long origin tt fibres descend, and are inserted ^-^-'^^^^^Z'TZ under the prostate, meet their fellow in the middle ^^-^ oi t^^ perineum in front of the anus (sometimes called levator p o - S the middle are inserted into the side of the rectum, while the posterior meet their fellow behind the rectum. * If a clean vertical section were made, we should see that the two '^--^^Jorra^^ ,ides of a triangular space, of which the apex ,s towards the prostate. Th,s « some times called the recto-nrethral triangle.SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEUA. 387 The function of the levatores ani is to retract the anus and the rectum after it has been protruded in defsecation by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm. This muscle should be regarded as a continuation of the levator ani. It arises from the spine of the ischium, gradually spreads out, and is inserted into the side of the coccyx, which it serves to support. At this stage of the dissection, the bladder should be drawn downwards, and the branches of the internal iliac artery and the sacral plexus clearly displayed. Fig. 84. PLAN OF THE BRANCHES OF THE INTEENAX ILIAC. Internal , ^^0°^ division of the common iHac artery, the iliac artery internal iliac descends into the pelvis, and, after a and branches. , • ■, , , course of about an inch and a half, divides, opposite the great sacro-ischiatic notch, into two large branches, an ante- rior and a posterior (fig. 84). The artery lies upon the lumbo- sacral cord and the pyriformis muscle; the ureter, inclosed in the posterior false ligament of the bladder, passing in front. The posterior division gives off the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and glutseal arteries; the anterior gives off the superior vesical, obturator, inferior vesical, naiddle haemorrhoidal, ischiatic and c c 2SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 388 pudic; also the uterine and vaginal in the female. Such is their usual order; but these branches, though constant as to their general distribution, vary as to their origin. a. The ilio-lumbar is analogous to the lumbar branches of the aorta. It ascends outwards beneath the psoas, sends branches to this muscle and tlie quadratus lumborum; then, running near the crest of the ilium, it supplies the iliacus interuus, and finally inosculates with the cicumflexa ilii (p. 354). b. The lateral sacral, usually two in number, descend pei-pen- dicularly in front of the sacral foramina, and inosculate on the coccyx with the middle sacral artery. They give branches to the pyriformis, the bladder, and rectum, and others which enter the anterior sacral foramina for the supply of the cauda equina. c. The gluta^al is the largest branch. It passes immediately out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, and then divides into branches for the supply of the great muscles of the buttock. These will be dissected with the thigh, cZ, The superior vesical artery comes off from the unobliterated portion of the hypogastric, and supplies the upper part of the bladder. It gives off the middle vesical artery; and a still smaller one, the deferential, which accompanies the vas deferens. The inferior vesical artery ramifies on the under surface of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales and the prostate, and gives off the middle hsemorrhoidal which supplies the rectum. e The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator fora- men through which it passes to be distributed to the muscles of the thigh. In the pelvis it gives off a small branch to the iliacus internus, and another, the pubic, which ramifies on the back of the pubes. The obturator artery does not, in all subjects, take the coui-se above stated. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch, or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric* Under * In most subiects a small branch of the obturator ascends behind the ramus of the pubes to inosculate with the epigastric. The variety in which the obturator anses m389 S-IDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. these circvrmstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, it generally descends on the ou^er side of the fenaoral ring. Instances, however, occasionally occur, where it makes a sweep round the inner side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the ring, or, what comes to the same thing, of the mouth of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.^ /. The ischiatic artery is smaller than the glutaeal. It proceeds over the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of the great ischiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it runs with the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off small muscular branches in the pelvis to the pyriformis and coccygeus. g. The 'prulic artery suppbes the perineum and the penis. It passes out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage over the obturator muscle it is inclosed in a strong tube of fascia (formed by the obturator fascia), and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p. 374). The pudic artery, however, sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, one of the large branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular^ but proportion ably small. All practic^ anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and we seldom pass a common witli the epigastric is but an nnusual development of this branch. The branch derives additional interest from the fact, that after Lgature of the external iliao it becomes greatly enlarged, and carries blood directly into the epigastric. See a case in Med. Chir. Trans. toI. xx. 1836. * The Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four ruptures the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth Qf the sac. (See Preparations 65, 69, Series 17,)SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 390 winter session without meeting witli one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed by fatal haemorrhage. h. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller as it descends, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral arteries. In animals this is the artery of the tail. Eespecting the veins in the pelvis, they correspond with the arteries, and empty themselves into the internal iliac vein. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 379). Nerves op Those which proceed from the spinal cord should be THE PELVIS, examined first, afterwards those derived from the sym- pathetic system. Sacral nerves ^'^"^^ sdicx^l nerves proceed from the spinal cord and plexus, through the sacral foramina. The upper four, from their large size, at once attract observation ; but the fifth is small, perforates the coccygeus muscle, supplying it and the skin over the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is not easily found: it communicates with the fifth sacral nerve, and supplies the same parts as that nerve; namely, the coccygeus and the skin over the coccyx. The three upper sacral nerves, and part of the fourth, with the lumbo-sacral cord, form the sacral plexus. The great nerves of the plexus lie on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the branches of the internal iliac artery, and coalesce to form the great ischiatic nerve, which passes out at the back of the pelvis, for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are as follow :— a. Muscular branches distribiited to the levator ani, the coccy- geus, the cutaneous sphincter of the anus, the pyriformis, gemelli, quadratus femoris, and obturator internus. The nerve to the last- named muscle (sometimes derived from the pudic) leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and re-enters with it to reach the muscle. b. The superior glutceal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral,391 SIDE VIEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. leaves the pelvis above tlie pyriformis with the glutseal artery, and supplies the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor fascise femoris. c. The lesser ischiatic supplies the glutaeus maximus, the skin of the buttock, the perineum, and the back of the thigh. Fig. 85. LUHIBi 12. N. of pyriformis. 13. N. of gemellus superior. 14. N. of gemellus inferior. 15. N. of quadratus femoris. 16. N.'of gluteus maximus. 17. Long pudendal n. 18. Cutaneous n. of the but- tock. 19. N. of the long head of the biceps. 20. N. of semi-tendiuosus. 21. K. of semi-membrano- BUS. 22. N. of short head of the biceps. 1, 2, 3, 4,'5. Sacral nn. 6. Superior glutaeal n. 7. Great ischiatic n. 8. Lesser ischiatic n. 9. Pudic n. 10. N. of obturator internus. 11. N. of levator ani. PLAN OF THE SACRAl PIEXUS AND BEANCHES. d. The pudic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and like it, sup- plies the rectum, the muscles of the perineum, and the penis. e. The branches for the pelvic viscera are very small. They proceed chiefly from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and form an intricate plexus about the bladder, prostate, and rectum. From the lumbar region the sympathetic nerve n^-r*'^^*"' descends into the pelvis, along the inner side of the sacral foramina. In this part of its course its gangliaSTRUCTURE OP THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE, 392 vai-y in number from tliree to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx, where they form the 'ganglion The plan upon which the sympathetic nerves are distributed in the pelvis is similar to that in the abdomen. Each ganglion re- ceives one or two filaments from a spinal nerve, and then gives off its branches to the viscera. The visceral branches are exceedingly delicate, and cannot be traced unless the parts have been previ- ously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries supplying the respective organs, and are called the ' vesical,' ' prostatic,' and inferior hsemorrhoidal plexuses;' and in the female the ' uterine' and ' vaginal.' According to the accurate dissections of Miiller, the vesical filaments of the sympathetic do not stop at the prostate, but pass on beneath the pubic arch into the corpus cavernosum penis. Thus the erectile tissue of the intromittent organ is brought directly within the influence of the sympathetic system. STEUCTUEE OF THE BLADDEE, PEOSTATE, UEETHEA, AND PENIS. The parts are presumed to have been collectively taken out from the pelvis, and the partial peritoneal covering of the bladder to have been removed. The bladder is composed of a partial peritoneal coat, Structure of ^ muscular, and a mucous ; these latter are connected by the bladder. intermediate layer of cellular tissue, out of which anatomists make a fourth coat, and call it the cellular. The serous or peritoneal coat invests the posterior, lateral, and superior surfaces of the bladder; being absent on the anterior and inferior aspect. The muscular is situated beneath the serous, and consists of unstriped or involuntary muscular fibres, which interlace with each other in all directions. Their general arrangement is as follows:—An outer, or longitudinal, layer arises from the upper Jj^lf of the circumference of the prostate and the neck of theSTKUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 393 bladder, and thence its fibres spread out longitudinally over the summit of the bladder, pass round its posterior aspect and base, to be inserted into the prostate in the male, and the vagina in the female. This layer is especially marked on the anterior and posterior sixrfaces of the bladder. Under this is a layer of circular fibres, especially developed near the neck. Towards the sides of the bladder the two sets of fibres have a less definite arrangement, and form a kind of network: these, therefore, are the weakest parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches.* The development and colour of the muscular fibres depend upon whether the subject has suffered from irritation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the expulsion of the urine. The cellular coat serves to connect the muscular to the mucous, and is composed of ordinary connective tissue. The mucous coat is everywhere loosely connected to the muscular, except opposite the ' trigone,^ where they adhere more firmly. The bladder must be laid open by an incision along its front surface, to examine its intei'ior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane is disposed in irregular folds, which dis- appear when the bladder is distended. In a healthy state, it is pale; when inflamed it becomes of a bright red. Under the microscope, its surface is seen to be studded with follicles. These follicles secrete the thick ropy mucus in inflammation of the bladder. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane varies in different parts of the bladder. Part is squamous ; part consists of a variety transitional between squamous and columnar. The orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part, which forms * These pouches arise in the following manner :—A portion of mucous membrane is protruded through one of the muscular interstices, so as to form a little sac. This is small at first, but gradually increases in size, because, haying no muscular coat, it has no power of emptying itself; generally speaking, several such sacs are met with in the same bladder ; and they sometimes contain calculi. If a calculus, originally loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged in a pouch by the side of it, a sudden remission of the symptoms may ensue. This explains oiir inability to detect its presence by a sound.394 STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE.STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 395 the well behind the orifice, in which urine is apt to accumulate in old persons. It appears small and contracted in the fresh bladder, but if the little finger be introduced into it, we find that it will dilate to a very considerable size. Immediately behind the orifice is observed in some bladders a slight elevation, called the ' uvula.^ It is composed of a portion of the mucous membrane raised up by an accumulation of the submucous tissue, and is rarely of sufficient size to interfere with the passage of the urine. This elevation must be distinguished from enlargement of the third or middle lobe of the prostate. The orifices of the ureters are situated about an inch and a half behind the urethra, and about two inches apart. These tubes perforate the coats of the bladder obliquely, and slant towards each other, standing out in relief under the mucous membrane.* A little ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter down to the neck of the bladder, looking like a continuation of the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from these ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. Sir Charles Eel],t who first drew attention to them, believed them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them ' the muscles of the ureters.'' The ridges, converging from the ureters, together with an im- aginary horizontal line, drawn between their orifices, include a smooth triangular area, called, by the French anatomists, the 'trigone vesicale.' The mucous membrane of this area is more firmly adherent to the subjacent tissue than in other parts of the bladder, and is therefore perfectly smooth. It is more richly * This slanting of the ureters serves all the uses of a valve. The urine enters the bladder, drop by drop, but cannot return, because the internal coat is pressed against the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When the bladder becomes thickened, in consequence of difficulty in passing the water, it sometimes happens that the ureters loose their valvular direction, so that the urine, when the bladder contracts, is partly forced back up the ureters ; the result is, that they become dilated, and so does the pelvis of the kidney. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. He says, ' These muscles guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generally.'396 STUUCTUllE OP THE PROSTATE. provided with blood vessels and nerves than the rest of tlie bladder, and is endowed with more acute sensibility. This is the reason why a stone is more painful when the bladder is empty; and in the erect, than in the recumbent position. The bladder is supplied with blood by the ' superior,' ' middle,' and 'inferior' vesical arteries. The superior comes from the imobliterated portion of the umbilical; the middle from the superior vesical or the internal iliac; the inferior from the anterior division of the internal iliac or the pudic. The vesical plexus of veins terminates in the internal iliac vein.* The nerves of the bladder are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses. Having already examined the form, size, and rela- Prostate. -fjions of the prostate (p. 385), you have now to make out its two lateral symmetrical lobes. There is, also, a third or middle lobe.f It unites the lateral lobes, and is situated above the seminal ducts. In health, this does not appear like a separate lobe; but when abnormally enlarged, it projects towards the cavity of the bladder, and acts like a bar at the mouth of the urethra. Make a longitudinal incision through the upper surface of the prostate to expose the urethra. The canal does not run exactly in the centre of the gland, but rather nearer to its upper surface; nor is it of the same calibre throughout. It forms a ' sinus' in the interior of the prostate, described by anatomists as the' sinus of the 'prostate.'' Along the floor of the sinus is a longitudinal ridge, about three quarters of an inch in length, broad and elevated behind, but gradually lost forwards in a narrow point. This is * The attention of the student should be directed to the very admirable injections of the veins of the bladder by Pettigrew, in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons. t Attention was first attracted to this middle lobe, in England, by Sir Everard Home, whose account of it is published in the Philos. Trans, for 1806. The prepara- tion prepared by Sir Everard in illustration is preserved in the Museum of tlie Royal College of Siu'geons in London, Physiol. Series, No. 2583 A. But the anatomy and effect of the enlargement of this part of the prostate gland is not a discovery of modern times. It was accurately described by Santorini in 1739, and subsequently by Camper, and is alluded to by Morgagni in the third book of his Epistles.STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. 397 called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is named the ' verio montanum,^ or ' caput gallinaginis,'' from its supposed resemblance to the head of a woodcock. The seminal ducts open close to each other, one on either side of this promi- nence (p. 394). Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, precisely in the middle line, is a small opening which will admit a probe. It leads backwards into a little ' cul-de-sac' or pouch in the sub- stance of the prostate. This pouch is described as the analogue of the uterus, and called the ' utriculus' or ' sinus pocularis.^ It is of a pyi-iform shape, with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about five or six lines. Practically it deserves attention, because in some persons it is large enough to catch the end of a small catheter. The minute orifices of the proper ducts of the prostate, from fifteen to twenty in number, are seen opening into the floor of the prostatic sinus.* The whole substance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and subdivisions of the ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if traced out with the micro- scope, they are seen to terminate in blind sacculated extremities, ■upon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.f Modern observations prove that the prostate is more of a muscular than a glandular body. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of muscular fibre of the non-striped variety. The great mass of this muscular fibre is arranged in a circular manner round the urethra, so as to form a sphincter. The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. If a small incision be made through the anterior part of the gland, the base being left entire, the gland may be dilated * In the ducts of the prostate we often find small calculi, of a brown colour, con- sisting of phosphate of lime. Cases are sometimes met with in which these calculi by degrees attain a consiJerable size, and distend the prostate into a kind of sac, which when examined by the rectum feels not unlike a bag of marbles. t This was first demonstrated by Mr. Quekett. The same distinguished anatomist has also discovered that the secreting cells of the gland contain calculi of microscopic minuteness. He finds them, almost without exception, in the prostate at every period of life. For further detail concerning them consult the article 'Prostate' in Todd's Cyclopaedia.398 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. by the finger sufficiently to admit the extraction of even large calculi. Any change in the dimensions of the prostate must affect the canal which runs through it, and more or less obstruct the flow of urine. If the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the prostatic urethra will be increased; if the enlargement pre- ponderate at one part more than another, then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track and assume a more angular or a lateral curve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a growth, which will, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to intro- duce a catheter into the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instrument is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe.* The external appearance of these bodies has been ^^^'ales already described (p. 384). Respecting their structure, we find that they have an external coat derived from the pelvic fascia ; a middle or fibrous, strong and somewhat elastic, and an internal or mucous. The mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and presents a beautiful honey-comb structure, not unlike that of the gall-bladder: the purpose of this is to increase the extent of the secreting surface. According to some anatomists, muscular fibres are present in the fibrous investment of the vesiculse seminales, for the purpose of expelling their contents. The duct emerges from the anterior part of the vesicula, and joins at an acute angle the vas deferens behind the prostate, to form the common ejaculatory duct (p. 361). The function of these bodies is twofold: they act as reservoirs for the semen, and secrete a fluid accessory to generation. The glands of Cowper have been examined in situ in gWs! ' tl^^ dissection of the perineum (p. 374). We find them close to the urethra, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb and between the two layers of the triangular ligament. They consist of an aggregation of smaller glands, of * See the Museum of St. Bartholomew's, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix.URETHRA. 399 which the collective size is somewhat larger than a pea. Each pours its secretion by a single and very minute duct about one inch long into the bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands appears to be like that of the vesicul£E seminales and the prostate; namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid accessory in some way to generation. They are found in all mammalia, and in some, e.g. the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. Urethra '^^^ urethra is the tube which leads from the bladder to the end of the penis, and serves not only as the ex- cretory duct of the bladder, but transmits the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course. The first inch, or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland (p. 361); the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the compressor urethrse (p. 372); the remainder of its course along the penis is surrounded by erectile tissue, termed ' corpus spongiosum.' Hence it is divided into the prostatic, the muscular or membranous, and the spongy. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches, but this varies according to the condition of the penis. The direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid, is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straight, the canal forms only one cm-ve through the pubic arch, with the con- cavity upwards. The degree of this curvature varies at different periods of life. In the child, the bladder being more in the abdomen than in the pelvis, the curve forms part of a much smaller circle than in the adult; but it gradually widens as age increases, and catheters are shaped accordingly,* However, the parts, when in a sound state, will yield sufficiently to admit the introduction of a straight instrument into the bladder. Aston Key always used a straight staff in lithotomy. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close appo- » The sharper curve of the urethra in the child was weU kuown to Camper. ' lu recenter natis, vesica basi sua elatius sita, pedetentim descendit, unde necessario se- quitur curvaturam urethrae majorem esse in junioribus quam in adultis.'—Demon. Anat, Pathol, lib. ii. p. 13.URETHRA. 400 sition ; the appearance it presents on a transverse section differs in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically, its two sides being in contact; through the prostate, also, it is nearly flat, except at the lower part, where its sides are kept asunder by the verumontanum, which projects upwards, fitting accu- rately between them.* But throughout the rest of its course the lining membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds, which project into and accurately close the canal, precisely on the same plan as that by which nature closes the oesophagus (p. 124). These longi- tudinal folds are plainly seen even when the urethra is slit open; indeed, they do not disappear unless the canal be forcibly stretched contrary to their direction.f The urethra must be laid open from end to end, to see that the canal is not of uniform calibre throughoiit. The external orifice is the narrowest, and the least dilatable part; so that the urine may be expelled in a jet. Therefore, any instrument which will enter the meatus ought to pass into the bladder, if there be no stricture. The junction of the membranous with the bulbous part is almost as narrow. The centre of the prostatic and the bulbous parts are the largest. In the centre of the glans penis, the canal widens into a little sinus, termed 'fossa navicidaris: The most dilatable part of the urethra is the prostatic. Even the narrowest parts of the canal must admit of considerable dila- tation, since calculi of from 3 to 4 lines in diameter have been known to pass through it. The seminal ducts open into the prostatic part of the urethra, by the side of the verumontanum. The ducts of Cowper's glands open into the bulbous part. Besides these glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from little glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, called ' lacuna^; are large enough to admit a bristle, and run in the same direction as the * See tlie transverse sections made by Pettigi-ew tlu-ougli the prostatic part of the nrethra in the Museum of the Eoyal CoUege of Surgeons. t In a well-injected urethra we observe that the r.dges of the folds possess very few blood vessels, while the fuiTows between them are exceedingly vascular. For the de- monstration of this fact the author is indebted to Mr. Quekett.a>;atomy of the i'ejvis. 401 stream of the urine. Most of them are on the lower surface of the urethra; but one called ' lacuna magna' is on the upper sur- face about H inch down the canal. The mucous membrane of the urethra is laid upon a substratum of areolar tissue. Then comes a thin layer of elastic fibrous tissue of which the fibres are arranged in a longitudinal and a transverse direction—giving the parts that springiness of which we are sensible in introducing the catheter. Outside this is a layer of muscular fibre. It has been demonstrated that the urethra is surrounded throughout its whole course by muscular fibres of the involuntary kind. Therefore, the whole of the canal having a muscular coat, similar to an intestine, any part of it is liable to spasmodic contraction. The urethra is lined byspheroidal epithelium, and near the glans is provided with papiUje: this, therefore, is the most sensitive part. Lastly, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of absorbent vessels,—a fact which has been demonstrated by the beautiful quicksilver injections of Panizza.* They run from behind, forwards, and join the absorbents of the glans penis. Eventually, their contents are transmitted down the great trunks on the dorsum penis to the inguinal glands. This explains the pathology of a bubo. Anaton^yof , '^^^ P"^^^ remarkably thin and ex- the penis. tensible, and connected to the body of the organ by loose cellular tissue, destitute of fat. At the extremity the skm forms the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans; f and the thin fold which passes from the under surface of * Osservazioni antropo-zootom. &c., Pavia, 1830. This anatomist has also displayed by injections an extremely fine network of absorbents which coTer the glans penis The interstices of this network are smaller than the diameter of the tubes ' t ^ hen the foreskin is, from birth, so tight that the glans cannot be uncovered, such a s ate is called a ' congenital phimosis.' This condition occasions no inconrenie;ce n ch Idhood, but IS apt, after puberty, to become troublesome and painful, so that t may WrATT'', ° '''''''''' ^^'^ '''' gl-^ liberty, in persons who have a tight foreskin, it sometimes happens that, when the glans has been uncovered the prepuce cannot be again cbawn over it: this is called a ' paraphymosis.' ZTel of the glans becomes tightly girt; great distention and inflammatSn are the con e- quences, and serious results may ensue, unless the foreskin be reduced D DANATOMY OP THE PJ5N18. 402 the glans to the prepuce is called ' frenum preputiV The skin is reflected over the glans, to which it adheres closely, and at the orifice of the urethra is continuous with the mucous membrane. The surface of the glans is covered, like the end of the finger, by minute papillae, which are endowed with keen sensibility by the dorsal nerves of the penis. Round its margin—termed the 'corona glanclis'—are a number of minute sebaceous glands, which secrete a substance called 'smegma preputii.' The bulk of the penis consists of two cylindrical bodies, of erectile structure, named from the appearance of their interior ' corpora cavernosa.' In a groove along their under surface runs the urethra, which is itself surrounded by a vascular spongy tissue called ' corpus spongiosum:' an expansion of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These structures, then—^the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum—together form the penis; though the corpus spongiosum appears closely united to the corpora cavernosa, yet it is quite distinct from them, as shown in the transverse section (p. 403). The corpora cavernosa constitute more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. Each commences posteriorly by a gradually tapering portion, called the ' crus penis,' which is attached along a groove in the rami of the ischium and pubes. The crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis, and then run on, side by side, to form the body of the organ. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded end, received into a corresponding depression in the glans, which fits on like a cap. The upper part of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic triangular ligament, called'ligamentum suspensoHum penis.'' In a longitudinal section through the corpus cavernosum, we observe that its interior is composed of a delicate reticular structure, surrounded by a thick fibrous coat. This coat is from half a line to a line in thickness, and is composed of white fibrous tissue intermingled with yellow elastic fibres. It forms a cylinder of adequate strength to support the delicate structure within, and sufficiently elastic to allow the distention of the penis. This coat,403 ANATOMY OF THE I'KNJS. also, forms a median vertical partition between the two corpora cavernosa. The partition is only complete near the root of the penis; along the rest of the organ there are gaps in it, giving it the appearance of a comb; hence its name ' septum pectiniforme.^ Through this partition the blood vessels on one side communicate freely with those on the other. Pig. 87. S ^ 3 4 S 1. Corpus cavemosum. 2. Corpus spongiosum urethraj. 3. Tena dorsalis. 4, 4. Dorsal arteries. 5, 5. Dorsal nerves. TBANSVEBSB SECTION THROUGH THE PENIS. The interior of each cylinder is occupied by a number of delicate elastic fibrous septa (' trabeculiwhich intersect each other in all directions, and form a multitude of minute cells. These com- municate freely with each other, as may be readily ascertained by blowing air into the penis. They are not of equal size throughout the penis; they are smaller, and their component septa thicker at the circumference than in the centre of the corpora cavernosa; at the root, than towards the glans. All the cells communicate freely with the arteries. When the penis is flaccid, they are empty; when it is erect, they are distended with blood. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa come from the pudic, enter the inner side of each crus, and proceed forwards near the septum, distributing numerous ramifications. These are supported in the middle of the fibrous septa, and end, some in capillaries which discharge their blood at once into the cells, others in tendril-like prolongations with dilated extremities which project mto the cavities of the veins. These arteries (called ' Jielicine' by Muller) are absent near the glans, and are best marked at the root of the penis. 1) 1) 2ANATOMY OF THE PENIS. 404 The blood from the cells of the penis returns partly through veins which pass out on the upper surface of the penis into the great dorsal vein, which joins the prostatic plexus; partly through the deep veins which leave the inner side of each crus, and the "bulb, to join the internal iliac. The corpus spongiosum is the erectile tissue which Corpus spon- gurrounds the urethra as it runs along the penis. It giosiun. commences in the middle of the perineum, in a bulb- like form, and at the end of the penis it expands to form the glans. This is proved by the fact, that if the spongy body be injected, the glans is filled also; not so, if we inject the cavernous body. The urethra does not pass exactly through the middle of the spongy body, but runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra (p. 361). In old persons it extends lower down than in children, and is, conse- quently, more exposed to injury in lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a much thinner external coat than the corpus cavernosum, but resembles it very much in its internal appearance. The reticular structure, however, is somewhat finer and more delicate. Its interior is composed of a plexus of minute tortuous veins. This is easily demonstrated by injecting the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans and the large veins which form the plexus round the corona glandis.* The chie?nerves of the penis are the pudic. The largest branches run along the dorsum to the outside of the glans: a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. This, it has akeady been men- tioned (p. 392), is suppUed by filaments of the sympathetic nerve proceeding from the hypogastric plexus. The absorbent vessels proceeding from the glans and the mteg- ument of the penis join the inguinal glands. The absorbents of the glans communicate freely all round it: this explains why a venereal sore on one side, sometimes affects the inguinal glands on the other. * In the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons there is a beautiful preparation in which the glans penis is injected with quicksilver, clearly showing it to consist of a plexus of veins.-Physiol. Series, No. 2588 A.405 FE3IALE TElilNEUIM. THE DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PEEINEUM. The 'pudenda in the female consist of folds of the integu- ment, called the labia. Between these is a longitudinal fissure which leads to the orifices of the urinary and genital canals. The pubic region is generally covered by an accumu- majdra. ^^^iou of fat, called ' Veneris: From this, two thick folds of skin descend, one on either side, consti- tuting the ' labia majora: Their junction, about one inch above the anus, is called the commissure, or 'frenulum labiorum:' it is generally torn in the first labour. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer : for this reason, whenever matter forms in the labium, the abscess bursts on the inner side. Where the labia are in contact, they are provided with small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observable on the surface. These glands sometimes inflame and secrete an acrid matter which creates great irritation and pruritus of the mucous surface of the vulva, often difficult to allay. Labia separating the external labia, two small and thin minora. ^^^^^ of integument are exposed, one on either side, termed 'labia minora: or, by the old anatomists, 'nymjohce: These folds converge anteriorly, and form a hood for the clitoris, called 'preputium clitoridis;' posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They never contain fat, like the labia majora, but are composed of a minute plexus of veins. Between the nymphs and about the clitoris, are a number of sebaceous glands. Between the labia minora, and below the clitoris, is an angular depression called the 'vestibule: at the back of which is the orifice of the urethra, or ' meatus urinarius.' Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is partially closed in the virgin by a thin fold of mucous membrane called the 'hymen.' Clitoris. ^^^^ structure the clitoris resembles the penis on a very diminutive scale; but there is no406 FEMALE PERINEUM. corpus spongiosum, or urethra. Like the penis, it is attached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura (fig. 88, p. 407), each of which is grasped by its special erector clitoridia. The crura unite to form the body of the organ, which is tipped by a small glans. The glans is provided with extremely sensitive papillae, and covered by a little prepuce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are exceedingly large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its internal structure consists of a plexus of blood vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora, for one cannot be injected without the other- A smooth channel called the vestibule, three-quarters yretlira. .^^^ length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life it has a peculiar dimple-Hke feel, which assists us in finding it when we pass a catheter. You should practice the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, provided the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore-finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina, and the meatus felt for; when the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina (p. 410). The two canals adhere so closely together that you can feel the urethra through the vagina like a thick cord. The urethra is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; but for all practical purposes it may be considered straight. Its direction, however, is not hori- zontal. In the unimpregnated state of the parts it runs nearly m the direction of the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; so that a probe pushed on in the course of the urethra would strike against the promontory of the sacrum. But after impregnation, when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis, the bladder is more or less rai'sed also in consequence of their mutual connection ; therefore the urethra, in the latter months of utero-gestation, ac- quires a much more perpendicular course. The female urethra is provided with a ' compressor' muscle,FEMALE PERINEUM. 407 essentially similar, iu origin and arrangement, to that which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra in the male. It also passes through the triangular ligament (fig. 89, p. 410). Though the prostate gland is wanting, yet there are minute glands scattered all round it, especially near the neck of the bladder. In consequence of the wider span of the pubic arch, and the more yielding nature of the surrounding structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the male. By means of a sponge tent, it may be safely dilated to admit the easy passage of the fore-finger into the bladder. Advantage is taken of this great dilatability in the extraction of calculi from the bladder. The mucous coat of the urethra is arranged in longitudinal folds, Fig. 88. 1. Meatus urinarius. / x^^^^ \ 3. Bulb of vagina. 2. Vagina. /'^lrM^&i\ \ Clitoris with its two crura- BULB OF THE TAGINA. and is lined by squamous epithelium, which changes to the sphe- roidal variety near the bladder. Next to the mucous coat is a layer of elastic and non-striped muscular fibres intermixed. Out- side all is a plexus of veins bearing a strong resemblance to erectile tissue. Va-ina. "^^^ Vagina is the canal which leads to the uterus; at present, only the orifice of it can be seen. It is surrounded by a sphincter muscle, easily displayed by removing the integument. The muscle is about three-fourths of an inch broad, and connected with the cutaneous sphincter of the anus in such a manner that they together form something like the figure 8. -D ,u ^ ^^^^ ^^^^ °f orifice of the vagina, between the Bulb of the , ■, , , » ' vagina. MUCOUS membrane and the sphmcter, is a plexus of tortuous veins, termed the bulb of the vagina, from itsFEMALE PERINEUM. 408 analogy to tlie bulb of tbe uretbru in tbemale. Tbis vaginal bulb extends across the middle line between the meatus urinarius and the clitoris, as shown in fig. 88, which was taken from an injected preparation in the Musee Orfila at Paris. The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane which, Hymeu. virgin, extends across the lower part of the en- trance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the fourchette. In most instances its form is crescent-shaped, with the concavity upwards. There are several varieties of hymen; sometimes there are two folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagina a mere vertical fissure ; * or there may be a septum perfo- rated by several openings {Hymen cribrlformis), or by one only (Hymen circularis). Again, there may be no opening at all in it, and then it is called Hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina: indeed, the uterus itself may become distended by it to such an extent as even to simulate pregnancy.f The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of virginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are related by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at Halle, are preserved the external organs of a female in whom the hymen is perfect even after the birth of a seven-months' child. ^ , , At the lower part of the orifice of the vagina is Bartliolin s or , ^ , ,. .,, ii Duverney's imbedded, in the loose tissue on either side, a small glands. gland,t which corresponds to Cowper's gland in the male. Each has a long slender duct, which runs forwards and opens on the inner side of the nympha. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea these glands are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, very difficult to heal. The description of the perineal branches of the pudic vessels * Such an one may be seen in the Museum of the CoUege, Phys. Series, No. 2843. t See Burns'Midwifery. -pt „ iq,a X See Tiedemann, Von den Duverneyschen Driisen des Weibs. Heidelberg, 1840.409 CONTENTS OF.FKMAI.E PELViS. and nerves, given in the dissection of the naale perineum, applies, mutatis mutandis, to the female, excepting that they are propor- tionably small, and that the artery which supplies the bulb of the urethra in the male is distributed to the bulb of the vagina in the female. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. The internal organs of generation, viz., the vagina, uterus, and its appendages, should now be examined. Their relative position should first be noticed ; and afterwards, their special anatomy. General The uterus is interposed between the bladder in position of front, and the rectum behind. From each side of it a the litems i i /- i i n • and its broad lold 01 peritoneum extends transversely to the appendages. gi^Q of the pelvis, dividing that cavity into an anterior and a posterior part. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus (fig. 90, p. 419). On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are completely covered hy peritoneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small peritoneal fold. Each ovary is attached to the uterus by a round cord termed the ' ligament of the ovary.' Along the upper pai-t of the broad ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Fallopian tube, which conveys the ovum from the ovary into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, while that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished with prehensile fringes—'fimbria;'—which, like so many fingers, grasp the ovum as soon as it is ready to escape from the ovary. One of these fimbriae is attached to the ovary Lastly, there run up to the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament, the ovarian vessels and nerves, which arise from the aorta in the lumbar region, like the spermatic arteries in the male, because the ovaries are originally formed in the loins. On the anterior surface of the broad ligament, you see, on cither side between its layers, the round ligament of the uterus. This410 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. cord proceeds from tlie fundus of the uterus, anterior to the Fallopian tube, through the inguinal canal, like the spermatic cord in the male, and terminates in the ' raons Veneris.' Besides one or two small blood vessels, it contains muscular fibres ana- logous to those of the uterus: these increase very much in pregnancy, so that, about the full term, the cord becomes nearly as thick as the end of the little finger. r,. 1 . J, After the removal of the innominate bone, as de- blClO VIOW 01 _ ' the female Scribed at p. 376, the vagina, rectum, and bladder should be moderately distended, and a catheter passed Kg. 89. pelvis. Urethra surronnd- ed by its compres- sor muscle. . . Vagina Bectam Peritoneum In dotted outline. Uterus. "VEKTICAL SECTION THEOUGH THE FEMjLLE PELVIS. into the urethra. This done, the reflections of the peritoneum must be traced. From the front of the rectum the peritoneum is of the peri- reflected on to a small part of the vagma, thus torming toneum. y^^^^^ jg called the 'recto-vaginal pouch.' From the vagina we trace the peritoneum over all the back, but only aboutCONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 411 half way down the front of the uterus; thence it is at once re- flected over the posterior surface of the bladder, on to the wall of the abdomen. Laterally it is reflected from the uterus to the sides of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments (p. 419). In cases of ascites the fluid might distend the recto-vaginal pouch, and bulge into the vagina, so that it would be practicable, in some cases, to draw it off through this channel.* ^ ^ . ^ . To the description of the fascia already given in the ■ dissection of the male pelvis (p. 378), nothing need be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports and braces up the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is a liability to 'prolapsus uteri.' LeTator ani. For the description of this muscle see p. 386. Bl dd r ^'^^ female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins is not so large, and there are no vasa deferentia or prostate gland. The short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Venous Though the veins round the neck of the bladder are plexiis about Comparatively small in the female, attention should be the vagina, directed to the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina and the rectum. They communicate in front with the vesical plexus, and behind with the haemorrhoidal. Their con- gestion in pregnancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the external organs, and the frequent occurrence of hsemorrhoidal tumours.f These veins must be removed, with * lu the Medical Communications, vol. i., a case is related in which four gallons of fluid were drawn off by tapping through the vagina. The woman immediately after- wards passed urine, which she could not do before. See also a case in Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. vii. p. 412. t During pregnancy, varicose tumours may form even in the vagina. In the Berlin Med. Zeitung, 1840, No. 11, a case is related of a woman who, at the sixth month, bled to death from the bursting of a large vein in the vagina. Other cases of the kind are related by Siebold.CONTENTS OP FKMALE PELVIS. 412 the cellulai- tissue in which they are imbedded, before a clear view of the parts cau be obtained. Uietliri '^^^^^ urethra has already been described (p. 406). But in the side view of the parts, we have the opportunity of observing how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the upper wall of the vagina; and we can iinderstand how, in cases of protracted delivery, it sometimes happens that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that there remains a fistulous conamunication between them, which continues to be a depending drain for the urine. . It is necessary to slit open the whole of the vagina along the side, to obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. The length of the vagina, in the unimpregnated adult, is, on an average, about 4^ inches. It may be more, or less; the difference in each case depending upon the depth of the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long, that we cannot, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a little lower down in the erect than in the recumbent position ; again, in the early months of utero-gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagina, so that this canal becomes shorter: the reverse holds good when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity up- wards ; it corresponds with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; whereas, the axis of the uterus corresponds with that of the cavity of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not imiform throughout. The narrow- est part is at the orifice; it is also a little constricted round the neck of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle : here a transverse section through it presents the appearance of a broad liorizontal fissure. If therefore you would insert the bivalve spec- ulum with the least amount of pain, the blades of the speculumCONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS, 413 should be vertical when introduced into the orifice of the vagina, and afterwards turned horizontally. The uterus is the receptacle which receives the ovum, retains it for nine months to bring it to maturity, and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Its situation and peritoneal connections have been described (p. 409). We have now to notice that its axis slants forwards, so that, upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve nearly parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus, then, is so placed that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the abdomen after the embryo has at- tained a certain size. The uterus in the unimpregnated state is pyriform, or rather tri- angular with the angles rounded, and is somewhat flattened antero- posteriorly. Its average size is about three inches long, two inches broad, and one inch thick, at the upper part: but there is variety in this respect, arising from age, the effect of pregnancies, and other causes. For convenience of description, the organ is divided into the fundus, the body, and the cervix. The term fundus is applied to that part which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes, and is the broadest part of the viscus (p. 419). The body is the central part, while the cervix is the narrow part which projects into the vagina. The vagina is very closely attached round the neck of the utenis : observe that it is attached higher up behind than in front. The mouth of the uterus is at the apex of the neck. This is called the ' OS uteri; and by the old anatomists the ' os tincce; from its fancied resemblance to the mouth of a tench. Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the vagina and uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs Uterine and ^'^ addition to the ovarian arteries (which correspond Srifs *° spermatic arteries in the male) given off from the abdominal aorta (p. 335), each internal iliac artery fur- nishes a branch to the uterus and another to the vagina. The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the in- ternal iliac, towards the neck of the uterus, between the layers of414 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. the broad ligament, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off ntimerous branches to it, which anastomose freely with each other. The fundus of the uterus is mainly supplied with branches from the ovarian arteries. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and sends branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The veins, corresponding with the arteries, form the uterine and vaginal plexuses, which empty themselves into the internal iliac. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the third Nerves of the fourth sacral nerves, and from the hypogastric plexus (p. 356). They accompany the blood vessels in the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along the sides of the organ. Some very small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which, according to the dissections of Mr. Beck,* minute ganglia are found. But most of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, subdividing, sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. A branch may be traced passing up to the fundus of the uterus, and another to the Fallopian tube. Whether the nerves of the uterus enlarge during pregnancy, like the arteries, is a question still undecided. Surgically speak- ing, the OS uteri may be said to have no nerves; for it is insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The absorbent vessels of the uterus are small m its unim- pregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid. Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed with the ovanan vessels to the lumbar glands; thus explaining the affection of these glands in ovarian disease. Those from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the uterine artery, and join the glands in the pelvis; some, however, run with the round ligament to the groin ; hence, in certain conditions of the uterus, the inguinal glands may be affected. * Philosophical Transactions for 1846.415 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVJ8. Structure of ^'^^^ uterus, vagina, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes the vagina, should now be Collectively removed from the pelvis ovS, and purpose of examining their internal structure. Fallopiiui The vagina having already been laid open (p. 412), we tubes. observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour; and that it is rough and furrowed, especially near the orifice. A more or less prominent ridge runs along its anterior; another, along its posterior wall. From either side of these, called ' columnce rugarum,'' proceed a series of transverse ridges with rough, jagged margins directed forwards. They are well marked in virgins, but repeated parturition and increasino- age gradually smooth them down. The use of the vaginal rugae is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They them- selves also possess keen sensibility, being richly endowed with papillae. The mucous membrane has a thick lining of squamous epithe- lium, and in the submucous tissue is an abundant supply of mucipa- rous glands, which increase in number and size towards the uterus. The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coat, about one-twelth of an inch in thickness. If this coat be minutely injected, we find that it is composed mainly of the inos- culations of blood vessels, so much so, that by some it is regarded as erectile tissue. In this coat, muscular fibres, longitudinal and circular, have been demonstrated. The orifice of the vagina is surrounded by a circular muscle, called ^sphincter vagince' (p. 407). Uterus. Before the uterus is laid open, examine the shape of that portion of the neck which projects into the vagina. The back part of the cervix appears to project into the vagina more than the front; but this arises from the vagina being attached higher up behind it. If the vagina were cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the posterior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is always felt first in an examination per vaginam.* The length, * This is the only way to reconcile the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works, respecting the comparative length of the lips of the uterus. Kraus, Weber,IIG CONTENTS OF FEMALE I'KLVIS. however, and the general appearance of the vaginal part of the cervix vary according to the age of the individual; it is also con- siderably altered by parturition. In the adult virgin it is smooth and round, and projects about half an inch : its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after parturition, it loses its plumpness, the lips become flaccid and fissured, and the mouth larger than it was before.* The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. In doing so, observe the thickness of its walls, which is greatest towards the fundus. Before coming into the proper cavity in the body of the uterus, you must slit up a long narrow canal which leads up into it through the neck. This canal is not of the same dimensions throughout: it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called * os internum; the lower end, which leads into the vagina, ' os externum: The passage is called the ' canal of the cervix: It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has ex- panded, but gradually disappears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus the cavity is very small, and its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is some- what prolonged, and leads to the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. This prolongation of the angles is noticed more or less m Busch, and others, say the anterior is the longer ; Mayer, Meckel, Quain, and others, '^*^Ins\Tces are recorded in which the neck of the uterus is preternaturally long. It has been known to project even as much as an inch and a ^alf >nto tUe va jna. In such rases it gradually tapers, and terminates in a very nan-ow mouth. This is sa d te one cause of sterility, and it is recommended either to ddate *e -u^ to cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is stated ^J=^t DuP„ytren was once'consulted by a lady on account of barrenness ; finding the neck of A-^™ unusually elongated, he removed a portion of it, and in due time the lady became pregnant. (Hyrtl, Haudbuch der top. Anatom.)CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. 417 different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia. The interior of the uterus is smooth at the fundus ; but the reverse at the cervix. Here there is a central longitudinal rido-e, both in front and behind (as in the vagina) ; from these, other closely set oblique ridges curve off laterally, like the branches of a palm-tree. The old anatomists called it ' arbor vitce.' The roughness produced by these ridges, occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage when a metallic sound is in- troduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with small muciparous glands, of which the minute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to. The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, and sbghtly alkaline. Soon after conception, the secretion dries up so as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and durmg parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens, occasionally that one or more of the ducts of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst. These were first described by N'aboth,* and supposed to be true ova : hence their name ' ovula Nahothi) The mucous membrane of the uterus is much more delicate than that of the vagina, with which it is continuous, and is closely united to the subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, but that which lines the cervix is squamous, like that of the vagina. Examined with a lens, the mucous membrane lining the body of the uterus is seen to be covered with minute follicles or tubes arranged at right angles to its surface. These follicles consist of simple tubes which pass outwards in a spirally coiled manner, some of them appearing branched and dilated at their extremities. These tubes become greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and are presumed to take an important part m the formation of the ' membrana decidua: The greater portion of the walls of the uterus consists of muscular fibres of the unstriped or involuntary kind, which are chiefly * De sterilitate mulierum. Lips., I707. E E418 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. aggregated at the fundus, and less so at the junction of the Fallopian tubes. The texture of these iibres is so close that in the unira- pregnated uterus it is useless to attempt to make them out satisfactorily. The muscular fibres are arranged in three layers, external, middle, and internal. The external layer, placed imme- diately beneath the peritoneum, is thin, and its fibres run trans- versely round the uterus, some of them being continued into the round and broad ligaments. A band of longitudinal fibres passes from the anterior surface of the uterus round the fundus to its posterior aspect. The middle layer runs in all directions, and chiefly surrounds the blood vessels. The internal layer is composed mainly of concentric circles which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes; at the cervix its fibres are arranged transversely round it, forming a kind of sphincter. Upon the whole their collective disposition is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides, when called into operation. At the same time that they expel the foetus, the muscular fibres perform another very important function: they close the large venous sinuses developed for its nutrition. Therefore, little hae- morrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided it have be°en attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every one knows the danger of what is called ' jplacenta jprcevia: Here, the placenta, placed over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a 'part of the organ which must of necessity expand during labour ; and every uterine contraction increases, instead of check- ing, the bleeding. For the same reason, paralysis of the mus- cular fibres in immediate connection with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to be a source of serious haemorrhage in parturition. The Fallopian tubes or oviducts are situated, one on FaHopian ^^^^i side, along the upper border of the broad liga- ment of the uterus, and convey the ovum from the ovary to the uterus (fig. 90). They are about four or five inches in length. One end opens into the uterus; the other terminates m a wide funnel-shaped mouth, surrounded by fringe-like processes called the ' fimbriated extremity: This termination of the Fal-41 9 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. lopian tube extends about an inch beyond the ovary, and, by floating it in water, one or two of the fimbrife naay be seen con- nected with the outer end of the ovary. If the Fallopian tube be opened from the expanded end, and a probe introduced into it, you will find that the tube runs very tortuously at first, then straight into the uterus, gradually contracting in size, so that the uterine orifice scarcely admits a bristle. Its mucous lining is gathered into longitudinal wavy folds, especially at the ovarian end, and is provided with a columnar ciliated epithelium. The free end of the tube communicates with the cavity of the peri- toneum. This is the only instance where a mucous membrane is Tig. 90. DIAaKAM OF THE VT^UVS, ITS BROAB XIOAMENTS, THI. OVARIES, ANB FALLOPIAN TUBES 1. Uterus. 2. Ovary. 3. Fallopian tube. 4. Fimbriated extremity of Fallopian tube. 5, 5. Broad ligament. G. Vagina. directly continuous with a serous one. It explains how the em- bryo may escape into the peritoneal cavity; though this is an extremely rare occurrence. It also explains what is said to have occurred ; namely the escape of the fluid in dropsy through the fetnT^et?; -object, the FaUo'pian tuL seen to be well suppbed with blood from the ovarian arteries They are provided with unstriped muscular fibres; the outer layer being arranged longitudinally, the inner, in circlls. The ovaries (called by Galen, 'testes muliebres^) are suspended to the back of the broad ligament of the Ovaries. E K 2420 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. uterus by a short peritoneal fold, which transmits their proper vessels and nerves: besides this, they are connected on their inner side to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary. They are of an oblong form, with the long axis transverse, and a little smaller than the testicles. In females who have not often menstruated, their surface is smooth and even ; in after-life, they become puckered and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The ovary is about an inch and a half long, and weighs about a drachm and a half. It has nearly the same coverings as the testicle ; viz. a serous coat, and beneath it a proper fibrous coat, the ' tunica albuginea.' If a section be made through the ovary, you find that it contains transparent vesicles, embedded in a soft fibrous-looking tissue, remarkably vascular when well injected, called the ' stroma ' of the ovary. The outer part of the ovary is chiefly occupied by these vesicles; the central part, in which there are very few, is composed almost entirely of the stroma. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs or ' Graafian ' * vesicles. They vary in number from eight to thirty, and in size from that of a pin's head to a pea. The smallest are near the centre; but as they advance towards matunty, they gradually approach the surface, increasing at the same time in size. They contain a transparent albuminous fluid. On examining the contents of one of the larger vesicles under the microscope, you find in it the ovum or germ,t surrounded by a layer of granular cells called the 'discus proligerus: It is this ovum which, escaping from the Graafian vesicle on the surface of the ovary, is grasped by the Fallopian tube and conveyed into the uterus. Ihe ruptured vesicle is converted soon afterwards into a yellowish- lookincT mass called ' corpus hdeum; which persists for a while, and degenerates afterwards into a small fibrous cicatrix. The ramifications of the ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions : they run in parallel lines, as in the testicle. Its nerves are derived from the ovarian plexus. * So called after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and be- lieved they were the true ova. , -n • 1Q07 . t This was first distinctly pointed out by Von Baer m 1827.ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 421 The ovarian veins terminate, like the spermatic in the male ; the right in the vena cava, the left in the renal. DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMINAL VISCEEA. The liver. '^^^ -"^^^^ largest gland in the body, and in the adult weighs from three to four pounds. Its surface is entirely covered by peritoneum, except a small part behind, which is connected to the diaphragm by cellular tissue, and in the hollow for the gall-bladder : behind, the liver is thick and round, but towards the front it gradually slopes to a thin border. The upper surface of the liver is smooth and convex, in adaptation to the diaphragm, and is marked by a white line which indicates its division into a right and left lobe, the right being the larger. The under surface is irregular and marked by five fissures and five Fissures. ^^^^^ longitudinal fissure, which divides the right from the left lobe, contains the round ligament (the remains of the umbilical vein). 2. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the liver, contains the remains of what was, in the foetus, the ductus venosus, and is therefore called the 'fissure of the ductus venosus: 's. The hollow or 'fissure for the gall-bladder: In the same line with this is, 4, the 'fissure of the inferior vena cava; which passes obliquely inwards towards the posterior border of the liver. 5 The 'transverse fissure' unites the other fissures, and transmits the great vessels which enter the liver in the following order: in front is the hepatic duct, behind is the vena porta, and between them the hepatic artery. The relative position of these fissures may be best impressed on the memory by comparing them col- lectively to the letter H. The transverse fissure represents the cross-bar of the letter; the longitudinal fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus represent the left bar ; the fissures of the gall- bladder and vena cava make the right bar. Lobes. ^^bes of the liver, five in number, are also seen .1, zT.'^" '^'^ht lobe, much larger than the left, is separated from it by the longitudinal fissure. On422 .ANATOMY OF THE L,1VKU. the under surface of the right lobe are two shallow depressions; the anterior is for the colon, the posterior for the kidney. The remaining lobes may be considered as forming parts of the right lobe, and are, the lobulus Spigelii, the lohulua caudatus, and the lobulus quadratus. The lobulus Spigelii is placed between the fissures of the ductus venosus and vena cava; and behind the transverse fissure it is connected to the right lobe by a ridge—the lobulus caudatus. The lobulus quadratus is situated between the ^all-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. This lobe is occa^sionally connected with the left lobe by a bridge of hepatic substance (pons hepatis) which arches over the longitudinal fissure. The liver has a thin areolar coat or capsule, best seen on those parts of it not covered by peritoneum. This coat is connected to the fine areolar tissue which surrounds the lobules, but does not send down partitions to form a framework for the xn erior of the aland It is continuous, at the transverse fissure, with the sheath of loose areolar tissue called ' Glisson^s capside; which surrounds the vessels as they enter that fissure, and incloses them m a common sheath in their ramifications through the liver. The interlobular areolar tissue is exceedingly delicate: hence.423 ANATOMY OF THE LIVER.. the great liability of the liver to be lacerated by external violence or by the action of the abdominal muscles. Lobules ^^^^^st^ of aggregation of 'lobules,' which range from -J^th to -^\th of an inch in diameter. These lobules vary in shape according to the direction in which they are cut; in a transverse section, they have the appearance of mosaic pavement (fig. 92); but in a perpendicular section they somewhat resemble an oak leaf (fig. 93). Each lobule consists of a Kg. 92. a. Inter-lobular vein. b. Intra-lobular vein. TRANSVEESE SECTIONS OP THBEE L0BT71ES OF THE LIVES, MAGNIFIED TO SHOW THE POETAl TENOUS PIEXTJS. (After Kieman.) minute plexus of blood vessels, ducts, and celh—hepatic cells— which latter fill up the spaces between the ramifications of the vessels. It will facilitate the understanding of the branchings of the different hepatic vessels, if it be borne in mind, 1, that the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, ramify together from hrst to last—they are inclosed in a sheath of areolar tissue called Glissons capsule;' 2, that the hepatic veins run from first to last by themselves, and terminate in the inferior vena cava as it passes through the liver. The portal vein on entering the substance of the liver gives off numerous small branches which pass between the lobules and formANATOMY OF THE LIVEK. 424 the' inter-lohular veins' (fig. 92). Some inter-lobular veins are also derived from branches (vaginal veins) of the portal vein, which before passing between the lobules ramify in Glisson's capsule. A minute capillary network arises from the inter-lobular veins, and penetrates into the interior of the ^ lobules, in the centre of which it lONQiTUDiNAL SECTIONS OF THE coUocts iuto a slugle trunlc called the LOBULES OF TiiE LivEH. INTRA- , ^^^^^j.^o^^^^^ ^g^-^.' This ccntral LOBULAR VEINS SEEN JOINING I^ILIIU, WO-Utt*! THE suD-LOBULAR. vclu opcns into a suo-lobular vein, larger or smaller as the case may be, upon which the lobule is sessile (fig. 93). The sub-lobular veins empty themselves into the smaller hepatic veins ; these unite to form the main hepatic trunks which open into the inferior vena cava. The hepatic artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides and subdivides with the portal vein, and ramifies with it between the lobules. The artery distributes branches which supply the coats of the hepatic vessels, Glisson's capsule, and the capsule of the liver; other branches run between the lobules, pass into their substance, and terminate in the capillary network. The hepatic ducts form a close network round the circumference of each lobule. From this network, branches proceed on all sides, and accompany the portal vein. Doubt still exists as to the commencement of the ducts. The prevalent opinion is that they beo-in within the lobules by a minute plexus, surrounded by hepatic cells. The interior of each lobule, that is, the space left between the several vessels, is filled by the hepatic cells. They are nucleated, and have a diameter varying from ^^th to ^^th of an inch. They contain more or less granular matter, and m some cases fat globules : when these accumulate in large quantities, they constitute what is called a ' fatty liver.' The office of these cells is to separate the bile from the blood, and when filled with bile, discharge their contents into the hepatic ducts.* * For further information on this subject see the original observations of Kiernan in the Philosoph. Trans, for 1833.GALL-BLADDER AND SPLEEN. 425 The f unctions of the Kver may be thus briefly expressed • 1 It renders the albuminous matter (albuminose) brought to it by the portal vein capable of being assimilated by the blood. 2. It forms a substance closely allied to sugar, which passes into the hepatic veins, and being consumed in the process of respiration, helps to maintain animal heat. 3. It secretes the bile, which assists in converting the chyme into chyle, and reducing it into a state fit to be absorbed by the lacteals. 4. The bile acts as a natural aperient, 5. The bile is an antiseptic, and probably pre- vents the food becoming decomposed during its passage through the intestines. GaU-bladder. gall-bladder, a reservoir for the bile, is confined ■ by the peritoneum in a slight depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 422). lb is pyriform in shape, and varies in size in different subjects; generally speaking, it is about four inches long, and capable of holding about li oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the ' cystic,' which, after a course of about an inch and a half, joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle (fig. 67, p. 338). The common duct, ' ductus communis ckoledochus; formed by their union, is about three or four inches long, and opens into the back of the descending part of the duo- denum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has two coats—the outer, consisting of fibro-cellular tissue, contains involuntary muscular fibres, which run mainly in the long axis of the gall-bladder; the inner is the mucous coat. The gall-bladder should now be laid open. Its mucous mem- brane is generally tinged yellow by bile, and gathered into ridges which give it a honey-comb appearance. This appearance is most marked in the middle of the gall-bladder: in the depressions between the ridges may be seen with a magnifying glass nume- rous openings leading down to mucous follicles. It is covered by columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucus. At the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both itsSPLEEN. 426 coats project very much into the interior, making the opening considerably narrower than it appears to be outside. In the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The pro- bable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. The gall-bladder appears to serve mainly as a reservoir for the bile, during the cessation of digestion. The bile becomes during its sojourn in the gall-bladder very viscid and intensely bitter. The spleen is a very vascular spongy organ, and be- Spleen. longs to the class of ductless glands. It varies in size according to the amount of blood in it, fluctuating in weight, consistently with health, between five and ten ounces. Usually it is of a reddish-blue colour, owing to the large amount of blood con- tained in it. It is more or less elliptical in shape, and in its natural position is placed with its long axis nearly vertical. Its outer surface, adapted to the diaphragm and ribs, is smooth and convex; its inner, adapted to the great end of the stomach, is concave, and divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a vertical fissure—the hilus—at the bottom of which are large openings through which the vessels enter and emerge from the spleen. The spleen is invested with two coats, a peritoneal and a fibrous. The peritoneal coat entirely covers the organ, except at the hilus, from which it is reflected to the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. Its fibrous capsule covers the spleen, and is elastic, to accommodate itself to the varying size of the viscus. This coat is intimately connected with the splenic substance, and in it are said to be some involuntary muscular fibres. It sends down into the interior numerous bands—trabeculce—v/hich. cross each other in various directions, and form a network, dividing the spleen into many chambers. Besides constituting the general framework of the organ, the capsule at the hilus forms sheaths for the vessels, and supports them throughout their ramifications in the interior. The splenic chambers are filled with a soft, reddish-brown sub- stance, called the 'pulp' of the spleen. Under the microscope it is found to consist mainly of cells, of a pale red colour, somewhat smaller than the red corpuscles of the blood. Interspersed among427 SPLEEN. these are numerous other cells, some caudate, others nucleated, and others altered blood-cells either free or contained within larger cells. In the pulp are found numerous white spherical bodies, 'Malpighian corpuscles,^ of about the -g-oth of an inch in diameter.* These cor- puscles are not free like the smaller cells, but are attached by slender pedicles to the walls of small arteries, from whose sheaths the capsules of these bodies are derived. The artery ramifies over the surface of the corpuscles, and then terminates in a brush of capillaries, which spread out into the pulp. The interior of each corpuscle is filled with a whitish ■ fluid, containing numerous small granular cells. The splenic artery enters the spleen by several branches, which ramify throughout the organ, supported by sheaths derived from the capsule.f These branches subdivide in the trabecular tissue, and the small ramifications spread out in a brush-like manner through the pulp, and terminate in capillaries which open into the veins (and also, according to Gray, into lacunar spaces from which the veins originate). The main branches of the artery do not communicate with one another, for if injection be thrown separately into one branch, it fills only that part of the spleen to which the artery is distributed. Thus it appears that the spleen is essentially a great blood gland; and that it consists of chambers filled with secreting gland cells of various size, between which ramify minute arteries and vems. It is presumed that the gland elaborates the albuminous materials of food, and stores them up for a time before they pass into the blood. It is considered to be a nursery for the production of the white corpuscles of the blood; and a grave-yard too, where many of the worn-out red ones undergo disintegration. Kidneys x, ^i^neys are situated in the lumbar region, im- bedded m a large quantity of fat. Their colour is .sdets Jo lonrr.f'™ y *° ^'^^^ ^""'^ diameter. It i. Td melt il l I T. r ^"^^^^^J-t^^ exceedingly fresh, for they soon soften or bxdlock, in ^.hich animals they are about ith of an inch in diameter. Jr, In^ Tl °^ ^'''''^ ""^y ^« ^^11 by washing away the pulp, and floating the flocculent-looking spleen in water. S J ueKIDNEY. 428 Fig. 94. reddish-brown. Each weighs about five ounces in the male, rather less in the female. The left is usually longer and somewhat heavier than the right. The anterior surface of each is smooth and convex; the posterior rather flattened. The outer border is rounded; the inner presents a deep notch—the hilua—for the entrance and exit of the renal vessels and duct. These have the following relations to one another: in front lies the renal vein; behind is the ureter; between them the renal artery. The kidney is surrounded by a thin fibroiis capsule, to which it is loosely connected by areolar tissue and minute vessels. The capsule does not penetrate into the interior of the kidney, and can, for this reason, when healthy, be readily stripped off, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. A loncritudinal section should be made through the kidney to ex- amine its interior. This section displays two distinct substances, an outer or cortical, and an inner or medullary. The medullmy structure is col- lected into from ten to sixteen pyramidal bundles (pyramids of Malpighi,* fig. 94); the apices of these, termed 'jpajpillcB,' pro- ject into one of the terminal di- visions of the excretory tube. These pyramids are composed of minute straight tubes, which proceed from the cortical portion to end on the papillse. f * So named after Malpighi, a celebrated Italian anatomist who lived during the middle and latter part of the seventeenth century. t Each pyramid represents what was, in the early stage of the kidney's growth, a distinct and independent lobe. In the human subject the lobes gradually coalesce, SECTIOK OF THE KJDNEY. 1. Ureter. 2. Pelvis of tbe kidney. 3. 3, 3. PapillEe.429 KIDNEY. The coriical structure, deeper in colour than the medullary, forms the outer part of the kidney, and dips down between the pyramids. It consists of convoluted tubes, and of small red bodies called Malpighian corpuscles. At the 'hilus' is the dilated commencement of the ureter, called the pelvis of the kidney. It is funnel-shaped, and its broad part divides into two principal channels, which again branch and form from eight to twelve cup-like excavations, called the calices. Into each of these calices one, sometimes two, papilla project. Between the calices the branches of the renal artery ascend to ramify in the kidney, lying imbedded in a quantity of fat. With a lens, the papilla may be seen studded with minute apertures, which are the terminations of the uriniferous tubes. These tubes as they pass outwards run straight, bifurcate repeatedly, and enter the cortex in bundles of straight tubes, forming the 'pyramids of Ferrein.' They vary from the ^^^th to ^th of an inch in dia- meter, and are largest towards their termination. On entering the cortex, the tubes become convoluted, and are surrounded by minute plexuses of blood vessels. The tubuli uriniferi, the pelvis of the kidney, and the ureter, are lined by spheroidal epithe- lium.* The Malpighian corpuscles are situated in the cortical portion and average about ^-i^th of an inch in diameter. According to' Bowman,! each is formed by the dilatation of the uriniferous tube. It is composed of a homogeneous membrane, and is pierced by a small artery, which enters the capsule opposite to the com- mencement of the urinary tube. In the capsule the arterv breaks up into a coil of minute vessels (glomerulus), which returns its blood by a vein (efferent vessel), which emerges from the capsule ''''' '^"'^^ pyramidal arrangement of the tubes. But m the kidneys of the lower mammalia, of birds and reptiles the lobes are permanently separate. ^ ' * Between the straight tubes in the Malpighian pyramids, there have recently been discovered numerous smaller tubules, named the looped tuhes of Henle. These are said to come off from the straight tubes, to descend towards the Ipex of the p "amid where hey form loops, and again ascend to terminate in the Malpighian corpj cTeT t Philosoph. Trans, for 1842. Part I. toipuscies.llEXAL CAPSULES. 430 Fig. 95. close to where the artery entered. Instead of leaving the kidney, as in other organs, it forms a venous plexus round the convolutions of the urinary tube.* The special purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine; while the Malpighian body filters the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the more solid part down the tube.f The coil of vessels in the capsule is surrounded by the epithelium lining the interior of the capsule. The nerves forming the renal plexus are de- rived from the smallest splanchnic nerves and the solar plexus. The lymphatics pass to the lumbar glands. These bodies, situated at the top of V. Vein, or efferent vessel. Supra-renal ^^i^^ kidneys, belong to the class of lv!iZ tube. cluctless glands. The right resembles a cocked hat, the left is more almond-shaped. They measure about li inch in their long diameter, and weigh from one to two drachms. They are surrounded by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows upon their surface. A perpendicular section shows that it consists of a firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior or medullary substance, soft and pulpy. The corrical portion is of a yellow colour, and forms the principal part of the organ. Examined under the microscope, it appears to be composed of clusters of columns about -j^th. of an inch in diameter, arranged perpendicularly to the surface. These columns do not run completely through the thickness of the cortical portion, but have a layer of cells arranged above and below * For a summary of the opinion held by various observer.s, respecting these Mal- pighian corpuscles, considt a paper by E. Southey, M.D., St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, vol. i. 1865. , , „ ^ ,. t That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a constituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two reasons : 1. From the analogous case of the vena porta, out of which the bile is elaborated in the liver ; 2 from the fact that in reptiles the urine is secreted from venous blood.STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 431 them.* The cohimns lie in the stroma of the cortex, which con- tains oval micleated cells, large fat globules, and a number of minute yellowish granules. The columns are stated by some to be tubes having a distinct L'ning membrane; by others, to be closed vesicles; and by others to be cavities in the cortical por- tion. Small arteries are abundantly supplied to the cortex, and dip down between the columns. The medullary part varies in colour according to the amount of blood contained in it, being in some of a dark brown colom-, in others nearly white. It consists of a plexus of minute veins, among which are numerous cells, some of whch appear branched.f The stroma is composed of areolar tissue, which forms a delicate network throughout the central part. Of late years the minute structure and functions of the renal capsules have been much investigated, in consequence of the dis- covery, made by Dr. Addison, of the close relation which exists between certain diseases in these bodies and a brown discoloration of the skm. Their precise function is still unknown. Stomach and alimentary canal is composed of four coats; a intestines. serous, a muscular, a submucous, and a mucous. First is the serous or peritoneal coat, described at p. 332' Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner cir- cular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger but regulates its peristaltic action; for the longitudinal fibres.^by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its contents to greater ad- vantage. Connecting this coat and the mucous, is a layer of areolar tissue called the submucous coat, in which the arteries break up before entering the mucous membrane. The mucous is the most complicated of all the coats, for it presents different characters CapsnLVTn sf Blh",''- ^"^'^--^^^-I^" - 'The Anatomy of the Supra-renal ca^smes, in bt. Bartholomew s Hosp. Reports, vol. i. 1865 t Consult ■ A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,' by Sin>on, London, 1845432 STUUCTLiiE or the stomach. in different parts, according to the functions which it has to per- form. The stomach should be moderately distended to see Stomach. .^^ ^.^^^ ^^.^^ ^^^.^^ different subjects according to the habits of the individual. In shape it has been compared to the bag of a bag-pipe. When distended it is about twelve mches m length and about four in width. The stomach forms a large bulge to the left of the oesophagus, called the cardiac or cesophageal end: on the ricrht side, where the food passes out, it becomes small and contracted, and is called the pyloric end. Just before the pylorus, the stomach bulges into a pouch, called * antrum pylon: Anatomists describe the stomach as having two borders and two surfaces. The upper border is concave, and called the lesser curve: the lower border is convex and called the greater curve. The surfaces, anterior and posterior, are convex. On removing the serous investment of the stomach, the muscular coat is exposed. The fibres are of the non-striped variety and arranged m three layers, an external or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an in- ternal or oblique. a- ^ The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the longitudmal fibres of the cesophagus, and spread out over the stomach : they are most numerous along the curves of the stomach. The circular fibres are well marked about the middle of the stomach, but are most abundant at the pylorus, where they form a powerful sphincter muscle. The oblique fibres are scattered over the sides of the stomach, and are the most distinct at the entrance of the cesophagus men the stomach is laid open, the mucous 'n^m.hrane seen to be of a pale colour, and gathered into longitudmal folds (r.^c), wh^h disappear when the stomach is full. The mucous membrane Ts connected to the muscular layer by a distinct stratum of areolar t s ue called the' submucous coat.' Its use is to permit^the mus- cu ar and mucous coats to move freely on each other and to serve as I bed, in which the blood vessels ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. 1(1 portion of the mucou. membrane be examined under a microscope, its surface will be seen to be mapped out into smallSTKUCTUEE OF THK SMALL INTESTINES. hexagonal pits or alveoli, giving it a honey-comb appearance. The pits vary from the ^-L^th to ^-J-^jth of an inch in diameter. At the bottom of them are a number of minute pores, the orifices of the gastric tubes. In a perpendicular section, the tubes are arranged in parallel lines at right angles to the surface, and terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucous membrane is made up of these tubular glands. The tubules are on an average about -jLth of an inch long. In the cardiac end they are simple tubes, but at the pyloric end they are frequently branched. Their upper fourth is lined with columnar epithelium, their lower three-fourths, with spheroidal or glandular. It is presumed that these glandular cells contain the gastric juice. As fast as formed, during digestion, they pass into the stomach, discharge their contents, and disappear. Other glands—lenticular—may be found near the pyloric end of the stomach, and resemble Peyer's glands. The mucous membrane of the stomach, and also of the upper part of the interior of the tubes, is lined by a columnar epithe- lium. It is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach .of an animal recently killed. The tubes of the stomach are richly supplied with blood. The ai-teries form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous- tissue, in which the closed ends of the tubes are set; from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, and form the hexagonal spaces before alluded to. The stomach is supplied with nerves from the pneumocastric and from the solar plexus. * Small . .^^^ '"^^^^ intestines, consisting of the duodenum, intestines. J^Junum, and ileum, form a tube from sixteen to twenty A ^ T ^^""^^^ according to the height of the indivi- dual. The duodenum is about twelve inches in length: the ieiu num comprises two-fifths, the ileum three-fifths of the remaining part of the small intestine. As regards their external character^ the rluodenum and jejunum are more vascular than the ileum and feel thicker m consequence of the peculiar arrangement of F FSTRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 434 their mucous membrane. Their peritoneal and muscular coats are the same throughout. The muscular coat consists of an outer thin longitudinal layer and an inner circular thicker layer. It is connected to the mucous membrane by the submucom coat. When the small intestines are cut open from the upper end, we observe that the mucous membrane is arranged in close transverse folds or plaits, called ' valvulce conniventes.' These diflFer from other folds in the alimentary canal, e.g. in the oesophagus and stomach, in that they are not obliterated when the tube is dis- tended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. They commence immediately below the openings of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and are moat largely developed in the duodenum aad the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gradually decrease in size, and become wider apart, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvulse conniventes is, to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of chyle; to prevent the food passing too rapidly through the intestines, and also for secretion. If a portion of small intestine be w-ashed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by small processes called villi. These are extremely vascular projections of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of aline in length, and so close to each other that a square line contains from forty to ninety of them. Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to that of the valvulse conniventes. Under the microscope a villus is seen to consist of an outstanding process of the mucous mem- brane, covered by a layer of columnar epithelium, which rests upon its proper basement membrane. Each villus is furnished with an artery which forms a network of inosculations over it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. In its interior it contains a lacteal or absorbing vessel, which commences in a closed end near the summit of the villus, where it is surrounded by a layer of pale unstriped muscular fibres. The cylindrical cells which cover the villi are believed to be the agents in the absorption of the chyle, and to possess the power of selection.435 STRUCTUKE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. There are four kinds of glands * in the small intes- glands"'''^ tine, called, tlie glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunn, Peyer, and the solitary glands. The first and last are distri- buted over the whole tract of the intestinal mucous membrane; the other two over particular parts. The glands of Lieberkuhn f are minnte tuhes with blind ends, very thickly distributed over the small and the large intestines. Under the microscope, their orifices are seen between the villi, like so many minute dots. These vary in depth from gL-th to -JLth of a line, and are lined with columnar epithelium. The glands of BrunnX are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen by removing the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the pan- creas on a diminutive scale. The glands of Peyer % (glandulse agminatas) abound most in the ileum, and are seen most distinctly in children. They are arranged in groups, from twenty to forty in number, on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These groups are from half an inch to three inches long, of an oval form, and increase in size and number towards the lower part of the ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, you find that it is composed of a number of small oval vesicles, like Florence flasks, imbedded in the sub- mucous tissue. They are about three-fourths of a line in diameter, and contain an opaque greyish fluid. No excretory ducts have been traced from these vesicles, but they are supposed to discharge their contents by rupture of their capsules. Between the vesicles are found Lieberkiihn's follicles; and the surface of the patches is covered with villi. These glands are liable to be ulcerated in typhoid fever. * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in specimens fatal dkelse ^""""^ ^''^^ ^'^^ suddenly, or from a rapidly t J. K Lieberkiihn, Diss, de fabric, et actione viUonim intestin. temiiiun, 1782 I J. U iJrunn, Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secundarium, 1715 § Peyeis De glandulis intestinomm, 1682. These glands were first described by JNehemia Grew, in 1681.STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. 436 The solitary glands are scattered in all parts of the small and large intestines. They resemble the glands of Peyer in structure, and only differ from them in being solitary instead of being aggre- gated into groups. The principal external characters of the large intes- intestine ^^^^ ^^^^ pouched or sacculated, and that it has, attached to it, little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called ^appendices epnploicce.^ The pouches (sacculi) are produced by a shortening of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of these bands corresponds with the attached part of the circum- ference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. In a colon moderately distended and dried, we observe that the mucous membrane forms numerous ridges or incomplete septa (see fig. 96): they correspond to the grooves on the external surface of the bowel, and disappear, like the sacculi, when the lonofitudinal bands are divided. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but distributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, both the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like those of the oesophagus, as one might expect from the parti- cular functions which these parts of the alimentary canal have to •perform. For an inch and a half, or thereabouts, above the anus, the circular fibres are remarkably developed, and constitute the internal ' sphincter ani.^ The mucous membrane of the large intestine differs consider- ably from that of the small. There are no valvulae conniventes or villi; but the glands of Lieberkiihn and the solitary glands may be seen studding the mucous membrane. The solitary glands are more abundant in the caicum and in the appendix vermiformis than in any other part of the alimentary canal. The blood vessels present the same hexagonal arrangement on the surface as437 STKUCTUKE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. that of the stomach. That the mucous membrane of the large intestine may be temporarily used as a substitute for the stomach, is proved by the fact of persons having been nourished for many weeks, solely by injections. The mucous membrane is lined throughout with columnar epithelium. At the junction of the small with the large intestine vah-e*'^'^^ the mucous membrane is folded so as to form a valve : but it is not a perfect one, as is proved by pouring water into the large intestine, or by the occasional vomiting of injections. Kg. 96. 1. Ileum. 2. Csecum or caput coU. 3. Appendix vemiformia. SECTION THEOUGH THE JUNCTION OF THE XABGE AND SMAll INTESTINE TO SHO^ THE IlIO-CiECAL VAIVE. The arrangement of the valve is best examined in a dried prepara- tion. The opening is a transverse fissure like a button-hole; and the two flaps are arranged like an upper and a lower eyelid. The flaps of the valve consist of mucous membrane apd the circular fibres of the ileum. The longitudinal fibres of the ileum are con- tmued directly on to the c^cum: if these be divided, the ileum can be drawn out, and the valve disappears.DISSECTION OP THE GROIN. 438 In many subjects we observe that transverse or Folds in the yi^iiq^e folds of the mucous membrane project into rectum. ' , i i the rectum. These cannot be seen to advantage unlees the bowel be hardened by alcohol in its natural position. Three, more prominent than the rest, and half an inch, or thereabouts, in width, were first pointed out by Mr. Houston.* One projects from the upper part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland; another is situated higher up, on the side of the bowel; while the third is still higher. When thickened or ulcerated, these folds are apt to occasion great pain and obstruction in defaecation. THE DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. An incision should be made along the groin, from the anterior superior spine of the ileum to the spine of the pubes; another, from the middle of the first, down the thigh for about six inches. The skin being reflected, the superficial fascia and vessels will be exposed. This fascia varies in thickness according to the con- Superficial (ji^ion of the body. Like other superficial fascia it is divisible into two layers, between which are situated the inguinal glands, and the cutaneous vessels. The upper layer is continuous with that of the abdomen ; the deeper layer is best marked in the upper part of the thigh, especially where it stretches across the saphenous opening to form the cribriform fascia. The cutaneous vessels come from the femoral artery and are three in number, the superficial epigasti-ic, the superficial pudic, and the superficial circuvifiexa ilU arteries: the first ascends over Poupart's ligament to the abdomen; the second crosses mwards towards the pubes; and the third passes outwards to the ileum. Each artery is accompanied by one, sometimes by two vems, which empty themselves, either directly into the femoral, or into the great cutaneous vein of the thigh, called the ' saphena.' * Dublin Hospital Keports, vol. v.DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 439 Superficial inguinal glands. These are easily recognised, by their oval form and reddish-brown colour. They are divided into two sets : one, which runs parallel to Poupart's ligament, and receives the lymphatics from the penis, scrotum, and peri- neum ; the other, which lies along the saphena vein, and transmits rig. 97. SUPEEnCIAl VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE GEOIN. SAPHENOUS OPENING -WITH THE CJBIBEIFORM FASCIA. 1. Saphenona opening of the fascia lata. 2. Saphena vein. 3. Superficial epigastric a. 4. Superficial cironmflexa illi a. 5. Superficial pudic a. 6. External abdominal ring. 7. Fascia lata of the thigh. the lymphatics from the foot and leg. This explains why, in cancer of the scrotum and syphilitic disease of the penis, the first set becomes enlarged; and the second in diseases of the lower ex- tremity. The absorbent vessels which pass to and from the glands are small, and easily escape observation, unless specially sought.DISSECTION OP THE GROIN". 440 They all pass through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and eventually empty themselves into the thoracic duct. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all super- ficial. There are others, more deeply seated, close to the great vessels of the thigh : these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. The superficial epigastric artery comes out through the fascia lata, half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and supplies the inguinal glands. Its further course is described at p. 309. The superficial circumfiexa ilii runs parallel to Poupart's liga- ment towards the crest of the ileum, and ends in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The superficial external pudic comes out through the sa- phenous opening, crosses over the spermatic cord, and supplies the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labi.um in the female. This artery is liable to be divided in the operation for femoral hernia; also in that for phimosis, since it runs along the penis to supply the prepuce. Arising, as they all do, directly from so large an artery as the femoral, they sometimes bleed profusely; for it is an admitted fact, that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as much blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of the divided branches.* There is another pudic artery, called the deep or inferior external pudic: this runs between the fascia lata and the pectineus, supplying that muscle, the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. The incision should be prolonged down the thigh, over the knee to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin must then be reflected, to expose the subcutaneous tissue over the whole of the front of the thigh. In it will be found the cutaneous vessels and nerves, which must be carefully dissected. * Mr. Liston had occasion to tie the external iliac artery for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the baU had injured only one of the superficial branches of the femoral, about an inch from its origin. See his paper in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxix. 1846.DISSECTION OF THE GROIN, 441 This is the chief subcutaneous vein of the lower Saphena limb. Its roota, arising on the inner side of the foot, vein. . unite into a single trunk, which ascends over the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg behind the knee, along the inner and front part of the thigh, where it passes through an opening—the ' saphenous opening'—in the fascia lata, to join the' femoral vein, immediately below the crural arch (fig. 97). In this long course it receives several tributary veins, some of which are often large; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the superficial veins of the groin already alluded to. Like all subcutaneous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves to support the column of the blood. The distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the thiarh nCTTCs!""^ varies considerably; so that a general description of their usual arrangement is sufficient. The cutaneous nerves are divided, according to their situation, into external, middle, and internal. All directly or indirectly proceed from the lumbar plexus, and are seen coming through the fascia, and dividing in the subcutaneous tissue. a. The external cutaneous nerve is a branch of the second lumbar nerve. It enters the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament close to the anterior superior spine of the ileum. Here it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior division runs down at first in a sheath of the fascia lata: it then comes through it, and can be traced down the outer side of the thigh as far as the knee, giving off numerous cutaneous branches. The posterior branch, after coming through the fascia, divides into branches, which are distributed to the skin over the nates and the posterior part of the thigh. h. The middle cutaneous nerves, two or more in number, are derived from the anterior crural, which itself is a branch of the lumbar plexus. They pierce the sartorius four or five inches below the crural arch, and descend along the front of the thigh to the knee, distributing branches on either side (see diag., p. 453). h. The internal cutaneous nerves, two or more, also branches of the anterior crural, perforate the fascia lata, one about theDISSECTION OF THE GEOIN. 442 middle,* another about the lower third of the thigh, and supply the skin on the inner side. The last-named branch communicates with branches from the obturator, and sometimes with the saphe- nous, about the middle of the thigh, and again with the latter a little above the knee. d. The d-urcd branch of the genito-crural nerve must be sought for carefully below Poupart's ligament: it perforates the fascia external to the femoral artery, and supplies the skin in front of the thigh. About two or three inches below the crural arch it usually communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve. e. The ilio-inguinal nerve, after emerging from the external abdominal ring, supplies the skin on the inner aspect of the thigh. . ^ Eemove the subcutaneous structure to examine the or^muscular muscular fascia, or ' fascia lata' of the thigh. The fascia. purpose of this fascia is to cover the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that it not only packs them together, but maintains each in its proper position. A knowledge of these sheaths is important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to burrow in this or that direction ac- cording to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. It is comparatively thin and transparent on the inner side ; exceedingly thick and strong down the outer side: here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded tendon, strapping down the vastus externus muscle ; and it certainly performs the office of a tendon, for it gives insertion to two powerful muscles—namely, the tensor fasciae femoris, and the glutaeus maximus (iig. 98). The fascia lata is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the framework of the lower extremity. Beginning from above, its attachment can be traced along the crest of the ileum, thence along the crural arch to the body of the pubes, and down * It is important to note that one, or sometimes t^vo, of these internal cutaBeous nerves cross the sheath of the femoral artery just where the sartorius begins to over- lap it; and therefore at the spot where it is usually tied. See diag., p. 453.DISSECTION or THE GROIN. 443 Fig. 98. the rami of the puhes and ischium. Proceeding down the thigh, it penetrates, on either side of the limb, to the linea aspera, forming what are called the 'intermuscular septa,' which separate the extensor from the flexor muscles. Below, it can be traced all round the knee-joint, and is particularly strong, es- pecially on the outer side, where it is attached to the head of the tibia and fibula. There are numerous small apertures in the fascia, through which the cutaneous nerves and vessels are transmitted; and one large opening —the 'saphenous opening^—through which the saphena vein passes to join the femoral. That part of the fascia lata situated external to the saphenous opening is termed the iliac portion of the fascia lata; that internal to it, the pubic portion. The saphenous opening is an oval aperture in the fascia lata, situated immediately below the crural arch, on the inner side of the front aspect of the thigh. There is no definite edge to the saphenous opening until the fascia, which covers the opening and blends with its margin, has been removed.* The term 'cribriform ' has been ""^^"^ ™^ , , 1 • P . , . . SIDE OF THE THIGH, given to this fascia, because it is riddled with holes for the passage of the superficial vessels ^- Gluteus m'^ISm™."™' and absorbents. It is a thin covering over the ^'asoia lata!^ °* saphenous opening, and is prolonged from the outer edge of the fascia. adheres on the inner side to the fascia lata, over the pectineus muscle. Some anatomists describe this fascia as a portion of the 'superficial fascia;' others consider it as a * According to Mr CaUender, a natural saphenous opening does sometimes exist, in consequence of the cribriform fascia becoming atrophied.-On the Anatomy of the parts concerned in Femoral Rupture, 1862. Saphenous opening in the fascia lata.444 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. thin prolongation of the fascia lata itself across the opening. Its chief surgical importance is derived from the fact that it forms one of the coverings of a femoral hernia. The cribriform fascia must now be removed so aa to display the saphenous opening, which will appear as represented in fig. 99. Reverting to the saphenous opening, we observe that it is situ- ated just below the crural arch, not far from the pubes; that it is oval with the long axis vertical, and about one and a half or two inches long. Its border on the inner or pubic side is not defined; for here the fascia lata ascends under the femoral vessels, and is continuous with the iliac fascia of the pelvis.* But the out^r or iliac border is defined clearly enough. This lies in front of the femoral vessels, is crescent-shaped, with the concavity towards the pubes, and called the falciform process of ' Burns.' The lower horn of the crescent curves under the saphena vein, and is lost in the fascia on the inner side of the opening. The upper horn * On the inner side of the femoral vessels the pubic portion of the fascia is to the linea ilio-pectinea.PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 445 (Hey's ligament)^ arches over the femoral vein, and is continued uninterruptedly into * G-imbernat's ligament' or into that part of the crural arch which is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea. The upper horn deserves especial attention, because it forms the upper boundary of the aperture through which a femoral hernia takes place; and, being chiefly concerned in the constriction of the rupture, must be divided for its relief. This may be easily ascertained by introducing the little finger under the crural arch, on the inner side of the femoral vein—in other words into the femoral ring (see the arrow in the diagram). Feel how much the upper horn of the crescent would girt the neck of a hernia, and that its tension is greatly influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the thigh be bent and brought over to the other side, the tension of all the parts is materially lessened.f ANATOMY OF THE PAETS CONCEENED IN FEMOEAL HEENIA. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissec- tions. The following demonstration, therefore, takes for granted that the student has the opportunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral, but also on their abdominal side. We propose to treat the different parts of the subject in the following order:— a. The formation of the crural arch. b. The arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch/ c. The sheath of the femoral vessels. cl. The crural canal and ring-. e. The practical application of the subject. * This upper horn is sometimes called 'Hey's ligament,' after the surgeon who first drew attention to it: Observations in Sm-gery, by W. Hey, E.E.S. London, 1810. t We must always bear in mind, that though the crural arch and the fascia attached to It have received particular names, they are not, on that account, distinct and se- parate ; but all are intimately connected, and portions merely of one continuous expan- sion. Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh.PAllTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 446 , , The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Crural arch , r ^ • • • or Poupart's oblique muscle extends from the anterior superior spine ligament. ileum to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, what is called the ' crural arch' or ' Poupart's ligament.' (It is marked by the dark line in fig. 100.) The direction of the arch is at first somewhat oblique, but towards its inner half, becomes nearly horizontal. In consequence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity downwards. The arch is attached to the spine of the pubes, and also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 100). This additional attachment, called, after its discoverer, Gimbernafs ligament* is of importance, for it is most frequently the seat of stricture in femoral hernia. The best view of Grimbernat's ligament is obtained Gimbernafs ^^.^^ within the abdomen, it being only necessary to ligament. ^j^g peritoneum. It is placed nearly horizon- tally, in the erect posture, and is triangular with its apex at the pubes and its base directed outwards. In front, it is continuous with the crural arch; behind, it is inserted into the linea ilio- pectinea ; externally, it is continuous with the fascia lata (fig. 99). Its length is from |ths of an inch to 1 inch ; but it varies in diflFerent subjects, and is usually longer in the male than the female: this is one amoncr many reasons whv femoral hernia is less frequent m the male. On°putting your finger into the femoral ring, you feel the sharp and wiry edge of this ligament: observe, too, that as the body lies on the table, the plane of the ligament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. The crural arch transmits from the abdomen into Arrangement ^j^g ^j^jo-h (proceeding in order from the outer side) the folfowing objects, shown in fig. 100: 1. The ex- underthe ^.^^,^^^1 cutaneous nerve; 2. The iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them; 3. The femoral artery and vein with the crural branch of the * Don Antonio de Gimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, A new Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia. Madind.PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 447 genito-crural nerve. These muscles and vessels fill up the space beneath the crural arch, except on the inner side of the femoral vein, where a comparatively vacant space is left for the passage of the absorbents: this is called the crural canal. The muscles are separated from the vessels by a strong vertical fibrous partition passing from the arch to the bone, which is nothing more than a continuation of the sheath of the psoas. The artery, too, is sepa- rated from the vein by a similar, although a much weaker parti- Kg. 100 External cutaneons n. . lUacns , . . , Anterior crural n. Psoas Crural arch. External ring. Femoral ring. Femoral vein and artery. POSITIOX OF PARTS T3MDER THE CEUBAX AECH (vEETIOAl SECTION). tion, and there is a third close to the inner side of the vein. These three partitions not only keep all the parts in their right place, but confine the arch down to the bone, and prevent its being uplifted by any protrusion between it and the muscles and vessels. This, coupled with the close attachment of the iliac fascia to the crural arch, explains why a femoral hernia rarely takes place in any other situation than on the inner side of the femoral vein.* * If the partitions from any cause yield, or become slack, tlien a rupture may de- scend in front of the vessels, or even (though this is rare) on the outer side of the artery.448 PAUTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. Sh th of "^^^ femoral vessels do not descend uncovered beneath the femoral the crural arch, but come dowa inclosed in a mem- vessels, branous sheath. This sheath appears to be derived im- mediately from the arch itself, but it is really formed, in front, by a prolongation from the fascia transversalis of the abdomen. This prolongation, uniting with the continuation from the iliac fascia to join the fascia lata behind the femoral vessels, forms a funnel, ■with the wide part uppermost, into which the femoral vessels enter. Fig. 101. 1,1. Fascia transver- salis. 2. Internal ring. 3. Crural arch re- flected. 4. Sheath of the fe- moral vessels. 5. Saphena vein. DUGRAM OF THE SHEATH OF THE FEMOEAl VESSELS. This is what is described as the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral To examine this sheath satisfactorily, it is necessary to reflect, from its attachment to the crural arch, the upper horn of the saphenous opening, as shown in fig. 101. By this proceeding, you expose the fascia transversalis coming down over the femoral vessels, and forming the front part of their sheath. The hind part of the sheath is formed by the fascia iliaca, which runs down behind the vessels to ioin the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The sheath descends about as low as the lower horn of the saphenous opening.PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL JIERNIA. 449 whei-e it is gradually lost upon the proper investment of the femoral vessels. The outer part of the sheath is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the superficial arteries of the groin; the inner part by the saphena vein and some absorbent vessels. Within the sheath of the femoral vessels, are three compartments separated from each other by partitions : the outer one is occupied by the femoral artery; the middle, by the femoral vein; the inner is the crural canal, into which the femoral hernia descends. Practically, the sheath is important for many reasons : 1. A femoral hernia descends inside it. 2. It forms, therefore, one of the coverings (fascia propria) of the hernia. 3. It contains in its substance bands of fibres (deep crural arch) running in the same direction as the crural arch, but quite independent of it, as shown in fig. 101; these bands lie over the neck of the sac, and are often the seat of the stricture ; it is therefore necessary to divide them before the intestine can be returned. Crural canal hollow Under the crural arch is completely occu- and femoral pied except for a small space, called the crural caned, on the inner side of the vein. This canal is from a quarter to half an inch in length. It commences, above, in the femoral ring; and ends, below, at the saphenous opening. The femoral ring is the upper opening of the crural canal, and is bounded, m front, by the crural arch ; behind, by the bone; on the outer side, by the femoral vein ; on the inner side, by the thin wiry edge of Gimbernat's ligament. In the undisturbed condition of the parts there is no gap; it is only a weak place, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels like a ring: hence the name of ' femoral ring.'* The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyieldino- struc- tures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath m cases of strangulation. Mr. Lawrence was in the habit of * The femoral ring is naturally occnpied by a little fat and cellular membrane by nnnSnf T ' '^''T''' " ^"^'^ ^'^^"^■^^"^ ^^-'^^ - "^-^ never mer;itJ G GPAKTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 450 saying tbtit he never saw a strangulated femoral liernia where the warm bath was of any avail. -P, , From what has been said, the student ought now to Practical ap- . c 11 plication of understand—], at what pomt a femoral hernia escapes the subject. ^i^g abdomen ; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts; 3, the proper mode of at- tempting the reduction ; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and, lastly, the probable seat of stricture. The hernia escapes from the abdoinen through the femoral ring —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Gimbernat'a ligament. Here is the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdo- men. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicularly, and projects as a small tumour in front of the pectineus muscle. Its progress downwards, however, is soon arrested, partly by the very clos°e adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening; partly by flexion of the thigh. Con- sequently, if the hernia increase in size, it must rise over the crural arch, where the subcutaneous tissue offers less resistance ; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the iHum, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to draw it first down from the groin, and then to make pressure on it backwards in the direction of the femoral ring. The coverings of a femoral hernia are as follow :— a°fImS °^ It first protrudes before it the peritoneum, technically hernia. ^^^^^ the hernial sac* The sac is covered by more or less fat according to the condition of the patient, called the sub- peritoneal fat. It next pushes before it the sheath of the femoral vessels, which forms an investment called the 'fascia propria: la front of this is the cribriform fascia. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous tissue and skin. The secot of stricture is usually at the femoral rmg, and the * In some cases the fascia propria so much resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to disting^iish between them. Generally speaking they are separated by a smaU quantity of fat.PAKTS CONCEKNED IN FEMOliAL llEKNIA. 451 position of the neighbouring blood vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Grimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, or upwards through Hey's ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper.* There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to talce their ordinary course. But it occasionally happens (as observed p. 388), that the obturator artery runs above (in the re- cumbent position) the femoral ring ; in such a case, the neck of the sac would be encircled by a large blood vessel.f From the exami- nation of two hundred bodies, the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice—not to cut deeply in any one place through the stricture, but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not run at the base of Grimbernat's liga- ment, but about a line and a half from the margin of it.$ Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being nearly the same, it might be supposed that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike; hut this is very far from being the case : indeed, surgeons agree that they never take the knife in hand without the ex- pectation of meeting some peculiarity. The fascia must now be removed from the front of the thigh, without disturbing the subjacent muscles from their relative positions. The mass of muscles, on the inner side of the thigh, * The operation recommended by Sir A. Cooper is that usually performed now because, if Gimbernafs ligament be di^-ided, its cut edges often retract to such an ex' tent that no truss can possibly retain the hernia when the patient assumes the erect posture. t The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double fe- moral hemm m the male with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the fo^u• herni. the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 55, 69, Series 1/. J n?r'T "^t,'''''""" '^'^-'^ l^^lf ^ 'J«^en instances occurred where the obturator artery was g.ven off by a common origin with the epigasU-ic artery. In aU these cases, however, the artery passed close by the bone, so that it woidd not hare been injured in the operation for relief of strangulation. G G 2452 Scarpa's tkiangle. consists of the adductors; that in the middle, of the extensors: the long thin muscle crossing obliquely in front from the outer to the inner side, is the sartorius. In the middle are seen the femoral vessels, and the anterior crural nerve emerging beneath the crural arch. This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine Sartorius. ^j^^ ileum, and from the ridge below to the extent of an inch. It passes obliquely like a strap over the front of the thigh towards the inner side; and then descends almost perpen- dicularly on the inner side of the thigh as far as the knee, where it terminates in a flat tendon which expands, and is inserted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below its tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad con- nection with the fascia of the leg. A large bursa * is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh. It also crosses one leg over the other, as tailors sit when at work.f Its nerve comes from the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural. In consequence of the oblique direction of the Scarpa's gartorius, a triangle is formed, which has this muscle triange. adductor longus for its two sides, and the crural arch for its base: the triangle is called ' Scarpa's.'$ The contents of this important space should be carefully displayed, and their relative positions well studied. This triangle contains all the parts which pass under the crural arch; namely, from without inwards ; the external cutaneous nerve, close to the anterior spine of the ileum ; the iliacus internus and psoas ; the anterior crural nerve and its divisions, especially the long saphenous nerve; the femoral artery with its great branch 'the profunda,'which runs * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa some- times becomes enlarged. ^ , • s , n „ t Hence the name given to it by Spigelius (De corporis hum. fabric.), Quern ego sartorinm museulum vocare soleo, quod sartores eo maximfe utuntur, dum cms crun inter consuendum imponunt.' „ . j ^t. r •„ ;f . \ So called in compliment to the Italian anatomist Avho first tied the femoral in it for popliteal aneurism.Scarpa's triangle. 453 down behind it and gives off the 'internal' and 'external circum- flex ;' the femoral vein, joined by the profunda vein and the internal saphena; and, lastly, the pectineus muscle. The triangle is important in a surgical point of view, since it is in this space that the femoral artery is usually ligatured for popli- teal aneurism. The guide to the artery is the inner border of the sartorius. The situation at which this muscle crosses over the Fig. 102. 1. Sartorius. 2. Adductor longua. 3. External cutaneous n. 4. Iliacus internns. 5. Anterior crural n. 6. Femoral artery. 7. Femoral vein. 8. Pectineus. 9. Long saphenous n. 10. Internal cutaneous n. 11. Nerve to vastus in- ternus. 12. Middle cutaneous n. DIAGBAM OF SCABPA's TBIANGLE. femoral artery, varies from one and a half to four and a half inches below Poupart's ligament; so that no rule can be laid down as to the exact situation where the artery disappears under the sartorius. The best way to find the inner border of the muscle during life, is to make the patient put it into action. Adductor ^ muscles, called the ' adductors,! muscles. extends along the inner side of the thigh, from the pelvis to the femur. Their two most important actionsFllONT OP THE THIGH. 454 are to co-operate in balancing tlie pelvis steadily on the thigh, as in standing on one leg ; and (if the fixed point be reversed) to draw together or adduct the thighs. They are five in number, and are supplied, with one exception—the pectineus—by the same nerve- namely, the obturator. They are termed, respectively, the gracilis, adductor longus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. The innermost is the gracilis; to clean it properly, it should be stretched by separating one thigh from the other. This long, flat muscle arises by a broad, ribbon-like tendon from the pubes close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. It descends almost perpendicularly on the inner aide of the thigh, and terminates in a tendon which subsequently spreads out, and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle, im- mediately behind the sartorius. Both tendons play over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa common to both. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh ; it also helps to bend the knee. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the obturator. This muscle lies external to the gracilis, and arises Adductor ^ Yown^i tendon from the front of the pubes below the crest. As it descends, it becomes broader, and is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius a triangular space called Scarpa's triangle (p. 452). It is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator rpj^-g muscle lies on the same plane, but external to Pectineus. adductor longus. It arises from the triangular surface of the pubes in front of the linea ilio-pectinea, and is inserted into the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to_ the linea aspera. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural, sometimes also from the obturator (p. 358). _ By separating the contiguous borders of the pectineus and the adductor longus, the adductor brevis is exposed with the anterior division of the obturator nerve lying upon it. To obtam a com- plete view of them, the pectineus and adductor longus must beFRONT OF THE TrilGII. 455 reflected from their origin. The obturator nerve supplies all the adductors. It leaves tlie pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch : the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis, and supplies the hip-^joint, the adductor longus, the gracilis, and some- times the adductor brevis ; the posterior runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies it as well as the obturator externus, the adductor magnus, and the knee-joint. This muscle arises from the front surface of the Wis°*°' pubes near the symphysis, and from its ascending ramus; it widens as it descends, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. Its nerve is derived from the obturator. By reflecting it from its origin, the following muscle is exposed.* This muscle arises from the lower two-thirds of the magmis°^ pubic arch and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the whole length of the linea aspera; also into the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. Its nerve comes from the posterior division of the obturator. Observe that all the ad- ductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons which are more or less connected with each other. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Psoas magnus and These muscles have been fully described in the .liacus internus. dissection of the abdomen (p. 348). Tensor fascice "^^^^ i^i^scle is situated at the upper and outer part femoris/^''"^of*b6 thigh. It arises from the external lip of the crest of the ileum, close to the anterior spine, descends with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted, at the junction of the upper with the middle third, between two layers of the strong aponeurosis, generally described as part of the fascia lata (p. 443)! * Beneath the adductor brevis, and running parallel with the upper border of tlie adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But the description of this muscle is defeiTed till the dissection of tlie external rotators of the thigh.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 456 Its chief use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and also to rotate the thigh inwards; in this last action it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the glutseus medius, with which it is almost in- separably connected. Any one may convince himself of this by placing the hand on the hip, and rotating the thigh inwards. Both these muscles are supplied by the same nerve—the superior glutseal. To form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connec- tions of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, it should be separated from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no difficulty in doing so, for it is united to the muscle by an abundance of loose cellular tissue.* With a little perseverance the aponeurosis can be traced to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia, and the fibula. See how completely it protects the outer side of the knee-joint. The powerful muscles situated between the tensor Extensor fascise on the outer and the adductors on the inner muscles. t r\ c ■< side, are extensors of the leg. One of them—the ' rectus '—arises from the pelvis ; the other—the ' triceps '—arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called, respec- tively, the cruraeus, the vastus iuternus and externus. All are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. To see the origins of the rectus femoris, dissect between the origin of the sartorius and the tensor fascise; in doing so, avoid injuring the branches of the external circumflex artery. This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong Eectus. tendons, which soon imite at an acute angle : one from the anterior inferior spine of the ileum, the other from the rough surface of the ileum, just above the acetabulum. The muscle descends perpendicularly down the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common extensor tendon. The structure of this muscle is remarkable. A tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are implanted on either side of it, like tlie vane on the shaft of a feather. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural. * When this tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, the matter is apt to extend all down the outside of the thigh, not being able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.457 FRONT OF THE THIGH. This mass of muscle surrounds the greater part of Triceps ex- ^^xaft of the femur; therefore the whole extent of it cannot be seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called, respec- tively, the vastus externus, the crurseus, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises by a very strong aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, and from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle. The ci'urceus arises from the upper three-fourths of the front surface of the shaft. The vastus internus arises from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft, and also from the inner lip of the linea aspera. They are all supplied by branches from the anterior crural nerve. ComTnon ^'^^ tendon of the rectus, gradually expanding, be- e^te^"sor comes connected on its under surface with the tendon of the cruraeus,* and on either side with that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the common extensor tendon, the ' liga- mentum patella},' descends over the front of the knee-joint, and is inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. Besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly inserted into the sides of the head of the tibia and fibula, so that the knee is com- pletely protected all round. The patella is a great sesamoid bone, interposed to facilitate the play of the tendon over the condyles of the femur: it not only materially protects the joint, but adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. To facilitate the play of the extensor tendon there are two bursa?. One is placed between the ligamentum patella and the tubercle of * A few of the deeper fibres of the cruraeus are inserted into the fold of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the ' mb-orur^eus.' Their use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps ,s connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose cel- lular tissue there is nothing to prevent the distention of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patellaFKONT OF THE THIGH. 458 the tibia, the other between the crnrseus and the lower part of the feinur. This hist is of considerable size. In early life it is, as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years of friction a wide communication frequently exists between them. Action of extensor muscles of the thigh are among the the extensor most powerful in the body. Great power of extending muscles. ^j^^ knee is one of the essential conditions of the erect attitude. Without it, how could we rise from the sitting position? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring ? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a double advantage; it acts upon two joints simultaneously, bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking: it also contri- butes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. We cannot have a better proof of the collective power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken by their contraction ; an injury which sometimes happens when a man, slipping backwards, makes a violent effort to recover his balance. The skin over the patella is exceedingly loose, and Bursa over j subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of considerable the patella. i t • n • size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame m females who are in the habit of kneeling at their work, it is gene- rally called 'the housemaid's bursa.' The bursa is not seated exactly over the patella, but extends some way down the bga- raentum patellae; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This corresponds with the position of the tu- mour which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speak- ing, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall of the bursa does not always form a complete sac; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the surrounding cellular tissue.459 rUONT OF THE THIGH. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion derived from the extensor tendon. This is interesting for the following reason: in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also ; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. The femoral artery is a continuation of the external COTTBSE AND ... "n-l RELATIONS OF iliac, ir'assmg beneath the crural arch at a point about THE FEMOEAi, midway between the spine of the ileum and the svm- ARTERY. •' physis pubis, it descends nearly perpendicularly along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it passes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and entering the ham, takes the name of ' popliteal' A line drawn from the point specified of the crural arch to the tubercle of the internal condyle would pretty nearly indicate the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. Im- mediately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus, but separated from it by the profunda vessels; still lower down it lies upon the adductor longus, and ad- ductor maofnus. In the upper third of the thigh, the artery is situated in Scarpa's triangle, and is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sartorius : here, being placed among powerful muscles, it is protected from pressure by a tendinous canal, which will be presently examined. At the crural arch the anterior crural nerve is placed on the outer side of the artery, and the femoral vein on the inner side : as the vein descends, it gradually passes behind the artery. Both lie close together, and are inclosed in a common sheatli.4G0 FRONT or TJIE THIGH. Hunt lu tlie middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery caiiai. contained in a tendinous canal * under the sartorius, called ' Hunter's canal.' This canal at its upper pa,rt is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Its boundaries are formed by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus ; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus; in front the canal is completed by an aponeurotic ex- pansion thrown obliquely across from the adductors to the vastus internus, as shown in fig. 103. In a horizontal section the canal appears triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the muscles keep the side of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any com- pression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains not only the femoral artery and vein, but also the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind and to the outer side; the nerve to the inner side of the artery. It is plain that a ligature can be placed around the artery, in the upper third of the thigh, with comparative facility; not so pjg easily in the middle third. The artery is tied for an aneurism of the popliteal, just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, for three reasons:—1, it is more accessible; 2, the coats of the artery at this distance are less likely to be diseased; 3, the origin of the profunda is sufficiently far off to admit SECTION THROUGH '■ .... hunter's canal. of the formation of a coagulum. An incision, 1. Vastus mtemiis. beginning about three inches below the crural I: ipone^a?oL°3TCwn across, arch, shouM be made about three inches over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should be divided over a director to the same extent. Then, by gently * Called 'Hunter's canal,'because it was in this part of its course that John Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George's Hos- pital, A.D. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.461 PKONT OIT TIIK THIGH. drawincr aside the inner border of the sartorius, we discover the artery inclosed in its sheath with the vein. An opening should be made into the sheath sufficient to admit the passage of the aueurismal needle, which should be turned round the artery from within outwards. The nerves to be avoided are—the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the cutaneous nerves which cross obliquely over it. Having already traced the superficial branches of the femoral artery in the groin, namely, the superficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflexa ilii (p. 438), we pass on now to the profunda. Profunda profunda is the chief branch of the femoral, and artery and is the proper nutrient artery of the thigh. It arises brancheb. fj-Qm the Outer and back part of the femoral, about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, and runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus; here the profunda passes behind the adductor, and is finally lost in the hamstring muscles. In most subjects, the profunda, for a short distance after its origin, lies rather on the outer side of the femoral and on a deeper plane, over the iliacus muscle: in this situation it might be mistaken for the femoral itself—indeed, such an error has actually occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, and lies upon the adductor brevis and magnus; it is separated from the femoral artery at first, by their corresponding veins; lower down, by the adductor longus.* The branches of the profunda generally arise in the following- order :—1, the internal circumflex; 2, the external circumflex ; 3, the perforating. The internal circumflex is given off from the inner part of the profunda, and then sinks deeply into the thigh, between the psoas and pectineus. At the lower border of the obturator externus it terminates in two divisions : one, which supplies the muscles in its neighbourhood, namely, the pectineus, psoas, adductors, gracilis, * The point at which the profunda is given off below the crural arch varies very much even in the two limbs of the same body. We have measured it in 19 bodies, or 38 femoral arteries. It varied from ^ to 3 inches. In 22 cases the profunda came off between 1| aud 2 inches; in 9 this distance was exceeded; in 7 this distance was less.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 462 and obturator externus ; the other will be seen in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor raagnus and the qua- dratufi femoris. This division gives off a small articular branch to the hip-joint, which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the ligamentum teres : it afterwards inosculates with the ischiatic and superior perforating arteries. The external circumflex artery comes off from the outer side of the profunda, runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and Pig. 104. \. Crural arch. 2. Internal iliac. 3. Femoral. 4. Profunda. 5. Internal circumflex. 6. External circumflex. PLAN OF THE IN0SCUI.A.TIONS OF THE CIECTJMFLEX ABTEBIES. rectus, between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, and then subdivides into three sets of branches, * ascending,' ' transverse,' and 'descending.' The ascending run up to the outer side of463 FKOiMT OF THE THIGH. the- ileum, beneath the tensor fascite and glutseiis medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the glu- tseal artery. The transverse are chiefly lost in the vastus externus, and inosculate posteriorly with the ischiatic artery. The descending, one or more in number, of considerable size, run down between the rectus and crurseus, and supply both these muscles: one branch, larger than the rest, runs down in the substance of the vastus ex- ternus, along with the nerve to that muscle, and inosculates with the articular branches of the popliteal. The perforating branches of the profunda are so named because they pass through the adductors to supply the hamstring muscles. There are generally three, but they vary both in number and size. The first is the largest. It passes between the pectineus and ad- ductor brevis, then through the tendon of the adductor magnus. The second passes through the tendon of the adductor brevis and magnus, and usually furnishes the nutrient artery of the femur. The third, through the tendon of the adductor magnus. They not only supply the hamstring muscles—namely, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus—but, also, the vastus externus and glutseus maximus. The perforating arteries inosculate with one another, with the internal circumflex, and with the ischiatic arteries. . ^. To test your knowledge of the arterial inosculations osculations, ^.bout the upper part of the thigh, reflect on the answer to the following questions. If the femoral were tied above the origin of the profunda, how would the circulation be carried on ? The ascending branch of the external circumflex communicates with the glutjeal; the internal circumflex commu- nicates with the obturator and ischiatic (see fig. 104). Again— how is the circulation maintained when the femoral is tied below the profunda ? The descending branch of the external circumflex and the perforating branches of the profunda communicate with tbe articular branches of the popliteal and the tibial recurrent.* * Eead the account of the dissection of an aneurismal limb by Sir A. Cooper, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. ii.rnONT OF THE THIGil. 464 The continuation of the profunda (sometimes called the fourth perforating), much reduced in size, passes through the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the short head of the biceps, finally inosculating with the articular arteries. The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphe- nous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it divides into two branches: one accompanies the saphenous nerve, and is sub- sequently distributed to the skin ; the other ramifies over the capsule and communicates with the other articular arteries.* The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch of miraVnerve Ivimbar plexus (p. 358). It comes from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It passes beneath the crural arch, lying in the groove between the iliacus and psoas, about a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater number supply the exterior muscles of the thigh. The cutaneous branches, already described (p. 441), and the long saphenous nerve, are given off from the superficial part of the trunk; the muscular from the deep part. The long saphenous nerve descends close to the outer side of the femoral artery, and enters the tendinous canal with it in the middle third of the thigh. In the canal it crosses over the artery to its inner side. The nerve leaves the artery just heiore it becomes popliteal, and then runs in company with the anasto- motica magna to the inner side of the knee, where it becomes superficial, between the gracilis and the sartorius. In the middle third of the thigh it gives off a small branch which communicates with the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves; and lower down another branch is distributed to the skin over the patella. Its further relations will be seen in the dissection of the leg and foot. * In its course clown the thigh the femoral artery gives off several small branches to the sartorius, and one of considerable size for the supply of the vastus internus. "We may trace this branch through the substance of the vastus down to the patella, where it joins the beautifid network of vessels on tlie sm-face of that bone.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 465 Its muscular branches are to be traced to the sartorius, rectus crurreus, and subcrurasiis; the branch to the vastus externus accompanies the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, and that to the vastus internus runs parallel with, but external to, the long saphenous nerve: these two last-named branches supply articular filaments to the knee-joint. One or more branches pass under the femoral artery and vein to supply the pectineus. The obturator nonje, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 358), supplies the adductor muscles. It enters the thigh through the' upper part of the obturator foramen with the corresponding artery, and immediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind, the adductor brevis. The front branch* subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the ad- ductor longus, and sometimes the adductor brevis ; the bind one supplies the obturator externus and the adductor brevis and mag- nus. In some bodies you can succeed in tracing a filament of the obturator nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip- joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery into the back part of the knee-joint. We have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in disease of the hip-joint. The obturator artery, after passing through the foramen, divides mto two branches, which form a circle round the obturator mem- brane. These supply the external obturator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculate with the internal circumflex artery (p. 462) It usually gives off the little artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. * Neax the lower border of the adductor longus, a filament from this branch com- municates w,th anotFset from the long saphenous nerve and with one from the ntern'l cutaneous branch of the anterior crvu-al nerve. This communication takes pice over the femoral artery in Hunter's canal. ^ II II466 FRONT OF THE LEG. DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. The foot should be turned inwards, and fixed in this position. An incision must be made from the knee, down the front of the leg, over the ankle, along the top of the foot to the great toe; a second, at right angles to the first, on either side of the ankle; a third, across the basis of the toes. Reflect the skin from the front and sides of the leg and foot. Having traced the internal saphena vein (p. 441) to veiMand the inner side of the knee, follow it down the inner nerves. g^^jg ^.j^g leg, in front of the inner ankle * to the top of the foot. On the top of the foot notice that the principal veins form an arch, with the convexity forwards, as on the back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal saphena originates ; from the outer side, the external saphena. The latter vein runs behind the external ankle, up the back of the calf of the leg to join the popliteal vein. The skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied by Long saphe- Iq^^ saphenous nerve (p. 464). It becomes sub- nous nerve. ^^^^^^^^^^ -^^g^. gjje of the knee, between the gracilis and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and accom- panies it down the leg, distributing its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot and base of the great toe. The largest branch cui-ves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. The skin on the front and outer part of the upper half of the leg is supplied by cutaneous branches from the external popliteal or peroneal nerve; the skin of the lower half, by the external cutaneous. » The French commonly bleed from the internal saphena vein as it crosses over the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for venisection.FRONT OF THE LEG. 467 External '^^^^ ^ branch of the peroneal nerve : it comes cutaneous or through the fascia about the lower third of the outer J^nSui°nerve. ^^^^ '^^' '^"^ descending over the front of the ankle, divides into two branches. Trace its subdivi- sions, and you will find the inner one supplies the inner side of the great toe, and the contiguous sides of the second and third toes; the outer one distributes branches to the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and the inner side of the fifth toe. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the external saphe- nous nerve, which runs behind the outer ankle with the correspond- ing vein. The contiguous sides of the great and second toes are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.* Mu.scular ^his is remarkably thick and strong. Besides its fascia and general purpose of forming sheaths for the muscles, ligaments. ^'^'^ Straps for the tendons, it gives origin, as in the forearm, to muscular fibres; so that it cannot be re- moved near the knee, without leaving the muscles ragged. The fascia is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula : it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus ; on the outer side with that of the biceps: consequently, when these muscles act, it is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge of the tibia, and that it becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, to form the ligaments which confine the tendons in this situation. Of these ligaments, called ' annular; there are three, as follow :— ^ a. The anterior extends obliquely across the front of the ankle- joint, and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two straps, which cross each other over the front of the ankle like braces. One brace goes from the malleolus externus to the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones; the other runs from the cuboid and os calcis upwards and inwards to the inner border * Such is the most common distribution of the nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangement are frequent. H H 2468 FRONT OF THE LEG. of the tibia: it is the strain of this ligament which occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. You will see presently that it makes a beautiful pulley for the extensor longus digitorum. b. The external extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which draw the foot outwards. c. The internal extends from the inner malleolus to the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. Remove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons in their places. The muscles on the front of the leg are:—1, the the front of tibialis anticus; 2, the extensor communis digitorum the leg. peroneus tertius ; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. The tibialis anticus arises from the external tuberosity Tibialis ^-^^ upper two-thirds of the outer side of the tibia, an iciis. ^^^^ interosseous membrane, and from the fascia which covers it. About the lower third of the leg the fibres ter- minate on a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The sy- novial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the annular ligament, accompanies it to within an inch of its in- sertion ; consequently it is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot upwards and inwards.* When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body at the ankle. Its nerve comes from the peroneal. This muscle lies along the fibular side of the pre- fotmmis ceding. It arises from the head of the tibia, from the digitorum. ^^ppgr three-fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, and the fascia. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a long tendon, situated on the inner side of the muscle: this tendon descends in front of the ankle and divides * It is generaUy necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called ' talipes yams.'469 FRONT OF TilE LEO. into' four slips which pass to the four outer toes. They diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus:—on the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the corresponding tendon of the extensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted as on the fingers; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; the sides run on to the base of the third (p. 285). Its nerve comes from the peroneal. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the os calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the tendon is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is pro- longed for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Be- sides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.* This appears like a portion of the preceding. Its tevtins!"^ ^^^'^^ ^^''^^ f^o"^ ttie lower part of the shaft of the fibula and the interosseous membrane, and terminate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. The peroneus fortius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the ground. Those who have lost the use of these muscles are obliged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire limb outwards, in walking. Extensor ^^^^ muscle lies partly concealed between the tibialis proprius anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. It arises poUicis. ^^.Qj^^ rather more than the middle third of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, be- tween the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis * There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus dicritorum and the outer end of the astragalus. This bursa sometimes communicates with tlie joint of the head of the astragalus.470 FRONT OF THE LEG. digitorum, along the top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley- beneath the annular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is supplied by the anterior tibial, a branch of the peroneal nerve. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior tibial artery. Since it lies deeply between the muscles, it is necessary to separate them from each other: this is easily done by proceeding from the ankle towards the knee. Course and ^'^^ anterior tibial artery is one of the two branches BELATioNs OF into whlch the popliteal divides at the lower border of Mon'^TiwIi. the popliteus. It comes forward about 1;^ inch below ARTEHr. the head of the fibula, above the interosseous mem- brane, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, where it takes the name of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, a line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly coincide with its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum; in the lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. But in front of the anlde the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, and lies between the tendon of this muscle and those of the extensor communis digi- torum. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance upon its fibular side, then in front of it, and lower down is again situated on its outer side. It is accompanied by two veins, one on either side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follow:— a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia to the front of the knee-joint, where it inoscu- lates with the other articular arteries derived from the popliteal. h. Irregular muscular branches.fkojS't of the leg. 471 c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ankle, and supply the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. Extensor ^'^^^ muscle is situated on the top of the foot, beneath brevis digi- the long extensor tendons of the toes. It arises from tonim. ^j^g outer part of the os calcis, and from the ligaments uniting this bone to the astragalus. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate on four tendons, which pass forwards to the four inner toes. The innermost one is inserted by an ex- panded tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the others join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons to be inserted into the ungual phalanx. The tendon to the great toe crosses over the dorsal artery of the foot. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. Dorsal '^'^^^ artery, the continuation of the anterior tibial, th Tof ^"^^^^ instep to the interval between the first ^ ° ■ and second metatarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch. On the top of the foot it runs along the outer side of the extensor proprius pollicis, and before it dips down into the sole, is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe. The dorsal artery gives off the following branches: — a. The tarsal branch arises near the scaphoid bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates with the arteries in the sole. b. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of the foot, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then sub- divide to supply the opposite sides of the upper surface of the toes. They communicate by perforating branches with the plantar arteries. c. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It comes from the dorsal artery just before this smks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply both sides of the great toe and the inner side of the second toe.FRONT OF THE LEG. 472 These muscles are situated on the outer side of the Musa.Es! fibula, and are named, respectively, peroneus longus and brevis. This arises from the outer surface of the fibula along longus*"^ its upper two-thirds. The fibres terminate in a penni- form manner upon a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the outer ankle, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and, lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cuboides deep into the sol It crosses the sole obliquely, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane. In removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe, if possible, leave the insertion of this tendon. Its nerve comes from the peroneal. This muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from Peroneus about the middle third of the outer surface of the fibula, brevis. internal to the preceding muscle. It terminates on a tendon which runs behind the outer ankle, through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, then proceeds along the outside of the foot, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.* Its nerve is from the anterior tibial. The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot.f This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side, as when we balance ourselves on one leg. Near the inner side of the tendon of the biceps flexor p'^roneal. ^£ ^^^^ j^^^ l^xge nerve called the peroneal, a branch of the great ischiatic. By reflecting the upper part of * On the o^itside of the os calcis there is a ridge which separates the tendons of the peronei. Each has a distinct sheath. The short tendon runs above, the long one be- low the ridge. , i , • i, t In distortion of the foot outwards, called ' talipes valgus, it is generaUy neces- sary to divide the tendons of the peronei.473 GLUTiEAL REGION. the peroneus longus, you will find that this nerve runs round the outer side of the fibula immediately below its head. Here it divides into several branches, as follow:—1. Three articular branches to the knee-joint, which pass in with the external articular arteries, and the tibial recurrent artery; 2. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery ; 3. The external cutaneous (p. 467), which comes through the fascia between the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum; 4. Branches which supply aU the muscles in front of the leg, namely, the extensors of the foot and the toes and the peronei. DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL EEGION. The body having been placed on its face, rotate the thighs inwards as much as possible, and cross them. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccyx, and be continued in a semicircular manner along the crest of the ileum. Another incision should be made from the coccyx down- wards and outwards for about six inches below the great trochanter. In reflecting the skin, notice the thick cushion which the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium. I have often seen a large bursa between the cushion and the bone. These are derived from several sources. The pos- MTves!°^^ terior divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves descend over the crest of the ileum, near the origin of the erector spinae, to supply the skin over the glutseus maximus. Internal to these, are the posterior branches of the sacral nerves, which are distributed to the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. Over the middle of the crest come the lateral branches of the twelfth dorsal, and internal to it, the iliac branch of the ilio- hypogastric. Other cutaneous nerves come up from below; they are branches of the lesser ischiatic, and proceed from beneath the lower border of the glutseus maximus. Lastly, some branchesGLUTEAL llEGION. 474 from the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh are seen on the outer side of this region. Three powerful muscles are situated on the buttock, muslfes^ one above the other, named, according to their relative size, the gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus. This is the largest muscle of the body, and is covered maibius ^ strong fascia, which sends prolongations inwards between the muscular bundles. Its great size is cha- racteristic of man, in reference to his erect position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ileum, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus :—the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad tendon which plays over the great trochanter, and joins the fascia lata on the outside of the thigh (p. 443); the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It also propels the body—in Avalking, running, or leaping. It is supplied with blood by the giutseal and ischiatic arteries; with nerves by the lesser ischiatic. The gluteus maximus should be reflected from its Wath the" origin. The best way is to begin at the front border, glutseus maxi- -which overlaps the glutseus medius. The dissection is difficult, and he who undertakes it for the first time, is almost sure to damage the subjacent parts. The numerous vessels which enter its under surface must be divided before the muscle can be reflected. This having been accomplished, the following objects will be exposed:— The muscle covering the ileum is the glutseus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which come out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the py- riformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the glutaeal artery and nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves,475 GLUTiEAL REGION. the ischiatic artery, and the pudic artery and nerve. Coming through the lesser ischiatic notch, we see the tendon of the obturator internus, and attached to it are the geraelli muscles, one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii trans- versely outward to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris, and below this is seen the upper part of the adductor magnus. The origins of the semimembranosus, biceps, semitendinosus, and of the adductor magnus, from the tuber ischii, are also seen; as well as the great sacro-ischiatic ligament passing upwards to the sacrum. Lastly, the great trochanter is exposed, together with a small portion of the vastus externus; and where the tendon of the glutseus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multilocular. I have seen it in some subjects sufficiently capacious to hold half a pint of fluid. This muscle arises from the surface of the ileum, be- Grl tSBU medius.^ tween the crest and the upper curved line; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter: some of the anterior fibres —in immediate connection with the tensor fasciae—terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Eeflect the glutseus medius to see the third glutseal muscle. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the glutaeal artery. This muscle arises from the surface of the ileum below minimus. upper curved Ime. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter. This muscle and the preceding are supplied by the glutseal nerve. Between the tendon of the last two muscles and the great tro- chanter are two small bursse. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ileum, it is an abductor of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the glutseus medius co-operate with the tensor fascifse in rotating the thigh inwards.476 GLUT-(EAL REGION. Gluteal '^^^'^ glutoeal artery is the largest branch of the in- vessols and ternal iliac (p. 387). Emerging from the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis, it divides into large branches for the supply of the glutseal muscles. Of these, some (superficial) proceed forwards between the glutaeus naaximus and medius ; others (deep) run in curves between the glutceus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ileum. Many of them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex. The nerve which accompanies the glutaeal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (p. 391). It subdivides to supply the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae; in some subjects it sends a branch to the glutaeus maximus; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A practical surgeon ought to be able to cut down and tie the glutaeal artery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it:—the toes are supposed to be turned in- wards. Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ileum to the midspace between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. The artery emerges from the pelvis at the point where the superior third joins the two inferior thirds of this line.* Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh out- wards—namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. This muscle lies immediately below and parallel to Pyriformis. lower fibres of the glutaeus medius. It arises from the front surface of the sacrum between the holes for the sacral nerves, and from the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the trochanter major. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. This muscle, of which we can at present see little Obturator j^Qj-g than the tendon, arises within the pelvis, from the internus. ... , ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obtu- * The operation of tying the glutaeal artery was first performed by John Bell. See his ' Principles of Surgery,' vol. i. p. 421.477 GLUTvEAL KEGION. rator foramen; also from the obturator membrane. The fibres terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser i§chi- atic notch, pass round it as round a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the top of the great trochanter. Divide the tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four ten- dons which play over the smooth cartilaginous pulley. There is a large synovial bursa to prevent friction. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus ; sometimes from, the pudic nerve. These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, and are situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium ; the gemellus inferior from the upper part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are inserted into the tendon of the obturator internus. Both muscles derive their nerves from the sacral plexus. This muscle arises from the ridge on the outer part of femoris tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, in a line with the linea aspera. Notice that the lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the ad- ductor magnus; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal circum- flex artery. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. To see this muscle reflect the quadratus femoris. It 2rtlmiis°'^ arises from the front surface of the ramus of the pubes and ischium, and from the obturator membrane. The fibres converge to a tendon which runs horizontally outwards over a groove in the ischium, and is inserted into the deepest part of the pit of the great trochanter. Its nerve is a branch of the obturator (p. 358). '^^is l^J'ge nerve is formed by the union of the sacral ischiatic nerves (fig. 105), and is destined to supply all the flexor muscles of the lower extremity, and the extensors of the foot. Emerging from the pelvis through the great ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis, it descends over the external rotator mus- cles of the thigh, along the interval between the tuber ischii and478 GLUT/EAL REGION. the great trochanter, but rather nearer to the former; so that, in the sitting position, the nerve is protected from pressure by this bony prominence. The nerve does not descend quite perpendicu- larly, but rather obliquely forwards, parallel with the great sacro- Fig. 105. 12. N. of pjrifonnis. 13. N. of gemellus superior. 14. N. of gemellus Inferior. 15. N. of quadratus femoris. 16. N. of glutasus maximus. 17. Long pudendal n. 18. Cutaneous n. of tlie but- tocli. 19. N. of the long head of the biceps. 20. N. of semitendinosus. 21. N. of semimembrano- sus. 32. N. of short head of the biceps. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Sacral nn. 6. Superior glutaeal n. 7. Great isohiatic n. 8. Lesser Ischiatic n. 9. Pudic n. 10. N. of obturator intemus. 11. N. of levator ani. PLiN OF THE SACEAI, PLEXUS AJTD BEANCHES. ischiatic ligament. It is accompanied by a branch of the ischiatic artery, called the ' comes nervi ischiaticV * This comes from the lower part of the sacral plexus. It leaves the pelvis with the greater ischiatic nerve, but on the inner side of it, and in company with the Lesser ischiatic nerve. * The arteria comes nervi ischiatici runs generally by the side of the nerve, but sometimes in the centre of it. This artery becomes one of the chief channels by which the blood reaches the lower limb after ligature of the femoral. See a preparation in the Museum of St. Bai-tholomew's Hospital, where the femoral was tied by John Hunter fifty years before the man's death.479 POPLITEAL SPACE. ischiatic artery. The muscular branches which it gives off are, one or more, which enter the under surface of the glutaeus maxi- mus. All its other branches are cutaneous. One turns round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin of the buttock. Another, the long pudendal (p. 367), turns inwards towards the perineum, to supply the skin of that region and the scrotum. The continued trunk runs down the back of the thigh beneath the muscular fascia, as low as the upper part of the calf, supplying the skin all the way down. This branch of the internal iliac leaves the pelvis artery/" below the pyriformis, and then descends between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off—1, two or more considerable branches to the glutaeus maximus; 2, a coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, then ramifies in the glutaeus maximtis, and on the back of the coccyx; 3, the comes nervi ischiatici; 4, branches to the several external rotator muscles; lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the hamstring muscles; and others which inoscidate with the internal circumflex and obturator arteries (p. 462). Pudicarter "^^^ course of this artery and nerve has been fully andnerre/^ described (p. 374). Observe now that they pass over the spine of the ischium, accompanied by the nerve to the obturator internus, and that in a thin subject it is possible to compress the artery against tlie spine. The rule for finding it is this: rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the artery.* PoFiiTEAi, advisable to examine the popliteal space at this SPACE. stage of the dissection, in order that the various parts may be carefully made out with as little disturbance as possible of their mutual relations. A vertical incision must be made along the middle of the ham, * Mr. Travers succeeded in arresting hsemorrhage from a sloughing ulcer of the glans penis by pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.POPLITEAL SPACE. 480 extending from six inches abovsj to tbree inches below the knee: transverse incisions should be made at each extremity of the vertical, so that the skin may be conveniently reflected. In doing so, care must be taken to preserve the cutaneous branch of the lesser ischiatic nerve, which descends over the ham to the back of the leg. The muscular fascia covering the space is very strong, and strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It is traversed by the posterior saphena vein, which passes to join the popliteal vein. The fascia having been reflected, the muscles and tendons constituting the boundaries of the popliteal space are to be cleaned. The space is formed, above, by the divergence of the hamstring muscles to reach their respective insertions; below, by the con- verging origins of the gastrocnemius : its shape is therefore that of a lozenge. Above it is bounded on the inner side by the semitendinosus, semimembranosus, gracilis, and sartorius; on the outer side, by the biceps; below, it is bounded on the inner side by the internal head of the gastrocnemius, on the outer, by the external head of this muscle and the plantaris. The space is occupied by a quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the knee; and in this fat are found imbedded the popliteal vessels and nerves, in the following order:—nearest to the surface are the nerves ; the vessels lie close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery (fig. 106). Alono- the outer border of the semimembranosus is the great ischiatic nerve, which, after giving off branches to the three great flexor muscles, divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in different subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal and the popliteal. The peroneal rims close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps* towards the head of the fibula, below which we have al- ready traced its division into branches for the peronei, and all the extensors of the foot and toes (p. 472). * The nerve is, therefore, very liable to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring.POrLITHAL SPACE- 481 The popliteal accompanies the popliteal artery, and is destined to supply all the flexor muscles on the back of the leg and the sole of the foot. By clearing out all the fat, we observe that the popliteal vessels enter the liam through an aperture in the adductor magnus, and Fig. 106. Biceps . . Peroneal n. Plantaris . Outer head of gastrocne- mius .... Semitendinosus Semimembranosns. Gracilis. Sartorius. Inner head of gastrocne- mins. POPLITEAI, SPACE. descend close to the back part of the femur, and the back of the knee-joint. At first they are partially overlapped (in muscular subjects), by the semimembranosus; indeed the outer border of this muscle is a good guide to the artery in the operation of tying It. Arising at right angles from the popliteal artery, are the two superior articular arteries: close to the vessel is the articular branch of the obturator nerve which supplies the knee-joint. I I482 BACK OF THE THIGH. Two or more absorbent glands are situated one on glandt""^ each side of the artery. They deserve attention, because, when enlarged, their close proximity to the ■artery may give them an apparent pulsation which might be mis- taken for au aneurism. DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The incision should be continued along the back of the thigh, and the skin reflected. The skin at the back of the thigh is supplied by the nerwl^'and lesser ischiatic nerve, which runs down beneath the veins. fascia, as low as the upper third of the calf, distributing branches on either side. There are no subcutaneous veins of any size at the back of the thigh : here they would be liable to pressure. But near the ham we find a vein, called the ' external saphena.' It comes up the back of the calf, and joins the popliteal vein. Eespecting this, remark that its fibres run chiefly in Muscular transverse direction, that it becomes stronger as it passes over the popliteal space, and that here it is con- nected with the tendons on either side. Kemove it, to examine the powerful muscles which bend the leg, caUed the ' hamstrings.' There are three of these, and all arise by strong Hamstring tendons from the tuber ischii. One, the biceps, is muscles. ^^^^^.^^^ j^to the head of the fibula; the other two— namely, the semitendinosus and semimembranosus—are inserted into the tibia. The divergence of these muscles towards their respective insertions occasions the space termed the ' ham,' which is occupied by soft fat, and the popliteal vessels and nerves. This muscle has two origins, a long and a short. Biceps. rj^j^g i^^g i-akes place, by a strong tendon, from the back part of the tuber ischii; the short one, by fleshy fibres, from the linea aspera of the femur. This origin begins at the linea aspera, just below the insertion of the glutseus maximus, and con-BACK OF THE THIGH. 483 tinues nearly down to the external condyle. It joins the longer part of the muscle, and both terminate on a common tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula, by two portions sepa- rated by the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. It also gives off a strong expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon covers part of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, a,nd a small bursa intervenes.* The biceps is not only a flexor of the leg, but rotates the leg, when bent, outwards. It is this muscle which dislocates the knee outwards and backwards in chronic disease of the joint. Each portion of the biceps is supplied by the great ischiatic nerve. The short head is sometimes supplied by the peroneal. Semiten "^'^^^ arises, in common with the biceps, also by mus- ednosns' fibi'es internal to the common origin, from the back part of the tuber ischii. The fibres terminate upon a long tendon, which spreads out below the knee-joint, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, below the tendon of the gracilis, and behind that of the sartorius. Like them, it plays ■over the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and is provided with a bursa to prevent friction. Its nerve comes from the ischiatic. The semitendinosus sends off from the lower border of its tendon a very strong fascia to cover the leg, which is attached along the inner edge of the tibia. The middle of the muscle is intersected by an oblique tendinous line. Semimem- ^'^^^ "^"^^^^ ^^'^^^^ ^^'^^ ^^^er ischii above and branosus. external to the two preceding, by means of a strong flat tendon, which extends nearly half way down the thigh. This tendon descends obliquely behind the biceps and semitendinosus, and terminates in a bulky muscle, which lies on a deeper plane than the others, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the posterior part of the head of the tibia. In connection with this tendon, notice three additional points that it is prolonged under the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and I I 2BACK OF THE THIGH. 484 Fig. 107. that a bursa intervenes between them; 2, that it sends a strong prolongation upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the principal constituent of the * licjamentum posticum Winslowiii which covers the back of the knee-joint; 3, that a fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus. Its nerve comes from the ischiatic. A large bursa is almost invariably found between the semi- membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. It is generally from one and a half to two inches long. The chief point of interest concerning it is, that it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examination of 150 bodies, I infer that this communication exists about once in five instances; and it need scarcely be said that the proportion is large enough to make us cautious in interfering too roughly with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.* These muscles produce two Action of the ^ hamstring different effects, according as muscles. ^j^^^, ^^g^j point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, they bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they form a very im- portant part of the machinery which keeps the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, you bend the body at the hip and feel the muscles in question, you find that they are in strong action, to prevent » When the hursa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of ei-eater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The sweUing bulges out and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is extended, and vice vcrsA. As to its shape, it is generally oblong ; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the bursae, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to burrow between the muscles where there is the least resistance.CALF OF THE LEG. 485 the trunk from falling forwards: they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body back again to the erect position. In doing this, they act upon a lever of the first order, as shown in fig. 107; the acetabulum being the fulcrum F, the trunk w, the weight to be moved, and the power p, at the tuber ischii. To put the action of the muscles of the thigh on the pelvis in the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg: the bones of the lower extremity represent a pillar which sup- ports the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-sccket joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling by four groups of muscles. In front, are the rectus and sartorius; on the inner side, the adductors ; on the outer side, the glutseus medius and minimus; behind, the hamstrings and glutseus maximus. The semimembranosus can also rotate the knee inwards, thus assisting the popliteus. The hamstring muscles are supplied with blood by the perfor- ating branches of the profunda, which cume through the tendon, of the adductor magnus close to the femur. Their nerves are derived from the great ischiatic. Ischiatic "^^^^ ^^^^^ descends from the buttock upon the ad- nerve^ '° ductor magnus, and, after being crossed by the long head of the biceps, runs along the outer border of the semimembranosus down the popliteal space.' The further course of this nerve has already been described (p. 480). Deferring the course, relations, and branches of the popliteal artery till this vessel is exposed throughout its whole course, pass on now to the dissection of the calf. Continiie the incision down the centre of the calf to the heel and reflect the skin. ' External or The large vein seen on the back of the leo- is called the pSa vein" ' '^^'"^'"'^^ posterior saphena: It commences on the outer side of the foot, runs behind the outer ankle, and then up the calf, receiving numerous veins in its course. It eventu- ally passes through the muscular fascia, and joins the popliteal vein. The chief cutaneous nerve of the calf is the external or posterior486 CALF OF THE LEG. saphenous nerve; some branches, however, from the long saphenous and small ischiatic nerves, are to be traced, ramifying in the sub- cutaneous tissue of the inner and upper part of the leg. The external saphenous nerve * is derived from the p(Sr'im-°'' popliteal (fig. 106), and passes down between the two saphenous heads of the gastrocnemius to the middle of the calf, where it comes through the fascia. Here it is joined b}' a branch from the peroneal nerve {communicans peronei); it then descends with the saphenous vein, and is finally distributed to the outer side of the foot and the little toe. To expose the muscles of the calf, reflect the muscular fascia by iucisions corresponding to those made through the skin. The great flexor muscle of the foot consists of two Muscles of portions : the superficial one, called the' gastrocnemius,' THE CALF. J- 1 n 1 r ^1 J arises from the lower end of the femur; the deep one,^ called the ' soleus,' arises from the tibia and fibula. The force of both is concentrated on one thick tendon, called the ' tendo Achillis,' which is inserted into the heel. This muscle arises by two strong tendinous heads, Gastrocnemius. ^^^^^ ^^^^^ p^^.^ ^^^^ condyle of the femur (fig. 106). The inner head is the larger. The two parts of the muscle descend, distinct from each other, and form the two bellies of the calf, of which the inner is rather the lower. Both terminate, rather below the middle of the leg, on the broad com- mencement of the tendo Achillis. The gastrocnemius should be divided transversely near its insertion, and reflected upwards from the subjacent soleus, as high as its origin. By this proceeding you observe that tlie contiguous surfaces of the muscles are covered by a glistening tendon, which receives the insertion of their fibres, and transmits their collected force to the tendo Achillis. Observe also the large sural vessels and nerves (branches of the popliteal) which supply each head of the muscle. To facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which * This nerve is sometimes called the communicans poplitei, and does not take the name of external saphenous till its junction witli the communicans peronei.CALr OF TllK LEG. 487 generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro- cai'tilage. Lastly, between the gastrocnemius and soleus is the tendon of the plantaris. ^ . This small muscle* arises from the rough line just above the outer condyle of the femur (fig. 106). It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates, a little below the knee, in a long tendon, which should be traced down the inner side of the tendo Achillis to the calca- neum. Its nerve comes from the popliteal. Solens "^^^^ nauscle arises from the head and upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the. back of the tibia,t from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone, and from an arch thrown over the posterior tibial vessels. The fibres swell out beneath the gas- trocnemius, and terminate on a broad tendon, which, gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The soleus is supplied with blood by several branches from the posterior tibial; also by a large branch from the peroneal. Its nerve comes from the popliteal and enters the top of the muscle. This is an important muscle in a surgical point of view, for two reasons —1, by reflecting its tibial origin, we reach the posterior tibial artery; 2, by reflecting its fibular origin we reach the peroneal. The tendo Achillis begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The narrowest part of it is about one inch and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most con- veniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its precise inser, * This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the forearm. In man it is lost on the caleaneum, hut in monkeys, who have prehensile feet, it is the proper maimer ^-emarkably strong in bears and plantigrade t The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute what some anatomists de- scribe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the popliteal vessels, protected by a tendinous arch. •CALF OF THE LEG. 488 tion is into the under and back part of the os calcis. The tendon previously expands a little : between it and the bone is a bursa of considerable size. The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. Since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus) of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body, and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to the other. Supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. The tendo Achillis, in raising the body on tiptoe, acts with great power and under the best lever- age ; for it acts upon a lever of the Jirst order. The fulcrum (a movable one) is at the ankle-joint f, fig. 108; the weight, w, at the toes; the power at the heel, p. All the conditions are those of a lever of the first order. The power and the weight act in the same direction on opposite sides of the ful- crum. The pressure upon the fulcrum is equal to the sum of the pressures applied: i.e. v xv + v^ x f.* ^ After passing through the opening in the tendon of DELATIONS OF thc adductor maguus, the femoral artery takes the THE POPLITEAL namc of ' poplitcal.' It descends nearly perpendicularly behind the knee-joint, between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus; next it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and, lastly, upon the popliteus. * It is fair to state that some regard the foot as a lever of the second order. There is, therefore, room for two opinions on the question.CALF OF THE LEG. 489 It is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is crossed by ■the plantaris. The vein closely accompanies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the first part of its course. The popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 106). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and one or two absorbent glands are generally found in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popliteal artery are the articular and the sural. There are five articular brandies for the supply of the knee- joint and the articular ends of the bone: the two superior—ex- ternal and internal—x\xn, one above each condyle, close to the bone, and are distributed partially to the vastus externus and internus, respectively; the two inferior—external and internal— run, one beneath each lateral ligament of the joint; and all four proceed towards the front of the capsule. The fifth, called the ' azygos,' enters the joint through the posterior ligament. These articular arteries form, over the front and sides of the joint, a beautiful network of vessels, which communicate, supe- culati^ons!""^" rio^ly, with the descending branch of the external cir- cumflex and the anastomotica magna; inferiorly, with the anterior tibial recurrent. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after ligature of the femoral. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastrocne- mius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle. One or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accom- panied by branches of the popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles. Popliteal ^^^^ ^^^^ formed by the junction of the venae vein. comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and is situated superficial to the artery. It crosses obliquely from the inner to the outer side of the artery, and is continued upwards under the name of femoral. It receives in the popliteal space the external saphena, the articular, and sural veins.490 CALF OF THE LEG. The insertion of the semimembranosus into the head of the tibia, alluded to p. 483, should now be more fully examined. This muscle arises within the capsule of the knee- joint, from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by a thick tendon, which runs beneath the external lateral ligament. The muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are in- serted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique ridge on the bone. It is supplied by a branch of the popliteal nerve which enters its deep surface. Its action is to flex the leg, and then to rotate the tibia inwards. The tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula ; and a bursa intervenes, which generally communicates by a wide opening with the knee- joint. Eeflect the soleus with its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and increases in strength towards the ankle, in order to form an annular ligament to confine the tendons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot. ^ There are three:—1, the flexor longus digitorum on Deep MUSCLES . ON THE BACK the tibial side; 2, the flexor Jongus pollicis on the OF THE LEG. fj^i3^|aj.. 3^ ^he tlblalis posticus upon the interosseous membrane, between and beneath them both. This arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, commencing below the popliteus, and extending to within about four inches of the lower end of the bone. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove behind the inner ankle, and entering the sole, divides into four tendons for the four outer toes. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. This powerful muscle arises from the lower two-thirds Flexor longus the posterior surface of the fibula. The fibres ter- polUcis. ^ , 1 . T 11 minate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the astragalus, and thence along the sole to the491 CALF OF THE LEG. great toe. The action of this muscle is to raise the body on the tip of the great toe. It is essential to the propulsion of the body in walking. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. This is so concealed between the two preceding muscles, posticus. ^^^^ cannot be properly examined without reflecting them. It arises from the interosseous membrane and from the contiguous surfaces of the tibia and fibula. In the lower part of the leg it passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum. Its muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting, surgically, because the tendon has to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is a good guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. Its synovial sheath commences about 1^ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened in the operation. _ Attention should now be directed to the internal annular hgament, which binds down the tendons behind the inner ankle. It is attached to the internal malleolus and the inner border of the OS calcis. It is continuous above with the deep fascia, below with the plantar fascia. Beneath it pass the tendons of the deep- seated muscles of the leg into the sole of the foot. The relative position of the structures passing under this ligament, proceeding from within outwards, are—the tendons of the tibiaHs posticus, a,nd the flexor longus digitorum; the posterior tibial artery accom- panied by its venae comites ; the posterior tibial nerve; and, lastly the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Course and This artery is one of the branches into which the relations of popliteal divides at the lower border of the popliteus.492 CALF OF THE LEG. the posterior It descends over the deep muscles at the back of the tibial artery, jgg interval between the internal malleolus and the OS calcis, and, entering the sole, divides behind the abductor poUicis into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies, first, for a short distance, upon the tibialis posticus, then, on the flexor longus digitorum; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating, and effectually com- pressed. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, and is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus : to tie it, therefore, in this situation, is very difficult. But in the lower part of its course, it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ^ or fths of an inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may easily be tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, it lies between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has two venae comites, which communicate at intervals. Its branches are as follow:— a. Numerous branches to the solens and the deep muscles. b. The peroneal is a branch of very considerable size; often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about 1^ inch below the divi- sion of the popliteal, it descends close to the inner side of the fibula, and then over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer part of the os calcis, where it inosculates with the malleolar and plantar arteries. All down the leg it is imbedded among the muscles: being covered, first, by the soleus, afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis. To both these muscles, to the latter especi- ally, it sends numerous branches, and just above the ankle it gives off a constant one—the anterior peroneal—which passes through the interosseous membrane, to the under aspect of the peroneus tertius, then runs in front of the tibio-fibular articulation, and inosculates with the other malleolar arteries. It supplies the medullary artery of the fibula, and, about an inch above the os calcis, sends off a transverse communicating branch, which inosculates with the posterior tibial artery under the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis.SOLE OF THE FOOT. 493 c. The medullary artery of the tibia. Posterior This is the continuation of the popliteal. It descends tibial nerre. close to its corresponding artery, and, entering the sole of the foot, divides into the external and internal plantar nerve. In the first part of its course the nerve lies superficial to the artery, and rather to its inner side; but behind the ankle the nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, and on the same plane.* It supplies branches to the three deep-seated muscles, and a cutaneous branch to the sole of the foot. DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OE THE FOOT. Make a perpendicular incision down the middle of the sole, and reflect the skin. Notice the peculiar structure of the subcutaneous tissue. It is composed of globular masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa, and forms elastic pads, especially marked at the heel, and at the ball of the great and the little toe; these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the great and the little toe, we often meet with bursse, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, and have remarkably thick walls. Very frequently we trace an artery and nerve running directly through one of these sacs, which explains the acute pain produced by their inflammation. Cutaneous "^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ Supplied by a branch of the nerret'^^ posterior tibial nerve; the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, as in the palm of the hand. Plantar ^^^^ remarkably dense and strong. It extends from fascbf'' under and back part of the os calcis to the distal ends of the metatarsal bones : it not only protects the plantar vessels and nerves, but is one of the many structures which support the arch of the foot. It acts like the string of a bow * It sometimes happens that the nerve divides into its two plantar branches higher than usual, and then we find that one lies on either side of the artery.SOLE OF THE FOOT. 494 (p. 508). This is exemplified in some cases of distortion, where an unnatural contraction of the plantar fascia makes the arch of the foot too convex; and it is necessary to divide the fascia to relieve the deformity. The arrangement of the fascia is like that in the palm. The central part, where there is the greatest strain, is very strong. The external part, which is attached to the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone, is also very strong. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia—that is, in a line between the toes—are seen the digital vessels and nerves. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand (p. 257). The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. Towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, because the muscles arise from it. After the removal of the fascia three muscles are Superficial g^posed. All arise from the OS calcis and the fascia, MUSCLES. proceed forwaxds to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum, the two lateral are the abductor poUicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. This muscle arises from the inner and back part of Abductor ca,]cis, from the plantar fascia, and the internal poUicis. ^^^^i^j. ligament. Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nerves in their passage to the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar. » They ave separated from each otlierby strong perpendicular partitions-intermus- cular septa—wliich pass in from the plantar fascia.SOLE or THE FOOT. 49.5 Abductor '^^^^ muscle has a very strong origin from the under minimi surfacB of the OS calcis, from its external tubercle and the plantar fascia. Some of its fibres terminate on a teudon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe; but the greater part runs on to a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external plantar nerve. Flexor brevis "^^^^ muscle arises from the under surface of the digitoriun. OS calcis, between the two preceding, from the plantar fascia and the intermuscular septa. It passes forwards and divides into four tendons, which run superficial to those of the long flexor. Cut open the sheath which contains them ; follow them on to the toes, to see that each bifurcates over the first phalanx, to allow the long tendon to pass; then the two slips, reuniting, are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The same arrangement prevails as in the fingers. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. The three superficial muscles should now be reflected, by sawing off about half an inch of the os calcis, and then turning it down- wards with the preceding muscles attached to it. This done, we bring into view the plantar vessels and nerves, the second layer of muscles, i.e. the long flexor tendon of the great toe, that of the other toes, and the flexor accessorius. Tendon of the Tracing this tendon into the sole, you find that an ItgZruT" accessory muscle is attached to it. The flexor acces- Musculus ac- sorius arises by muscular fibres from the inner side of cessonus. j-j^g caXds, and has often a second origin, tendinous, from the outer side. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are' inserted into the fibular side of the tendon, so that their action is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel, which, from its oblique direction, it could not do without the accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and after passing through them are inserted into the bases of the ungual phalanges. Eespecting the manner in which496 SOLTS OF THE FOOT. the tendons are confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers (p. 262) applies equally to the toes. The flexor accessorius is supplied by the external plantar nerve. ^ , . , These four little muscles are placed between the long Lumbricales. ^ , flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most internal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which passes round the inner side of the four outer toes, and joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toes. Concerning their use, refer to p. 264. The two outer lumbricales are supplied by the external plantar nerve, the two inner by the internal plantar. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tuberosity of the os calcis, above the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx. Observe that it crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and that the two tendons are connected by an oblique slip; so that we can- not bend the other toes without the great toe. The posterior tibial artery, having entered the sole Plantar between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides AKTEHiBs. .^^^ external and internal plantar arteries. The internal plantar artery is very small: it passes forwards between the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum to the base of the great toe, where it terminates in small inoscu- lations with the digital arteries. Its chief use is to supply the muscles between which it runs. The external plantar is the principal artery of the sole, and alone forms the plantar arch. It runs obUquely outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; then, sinking deep from the surface, it bends inwards across the bases of the metatarsal bones, and inosculates with the anterior tibial in the first interosseous space. In the first part of its course, it Hes between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius; m the second it lies very deep beneath the flexor tendons, and the adductor pollicis, close to the metatarsal bones. Deeply seated asSOLE OF THE EOOT. 497 it appears to be, a part of its curve near the fifth metatarsal bone lies immediately beneath the fascia. Here ifc might be more easily tied than in any other part of its course. Its chief branches are the four digital ar- teries, which arise in the arched part of its course. They supply both sides of the fifth, fourth, third, and the outer side of the second toe; the great toe, and the inside of the se- cond, being supplied by the dorsalis hallucis. Concerning the distribution of the digital ar- teries, refer to the account given of these arteries in the hand ; they are in all respects similar (p. 259). Besides the digital arteries, the arch gives off" three small branches—the per/oraiwi^ — which ascend between the three outer meta- tarsal spaces, and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The posterior tibial nerve di- vides, like the artery, into an ex Fig. 109. Plantar nerves. ternal and internal plantar. The 2^'e"™^ do.''""- hiternal plantar is generally the larger, and supplies nerves to three toes and a half, like the median in the palm. It also sup- plies the muscles on the inner side of the sole, the abductor polhcis, the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor brevis digitorum the two inner lumbricales; also articular branches to the tarsus and metatarsus. The external plantar nerve sends branches to the flexor accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti, and then divides into a superficial and deep branch. The suveriicial Wh supplies the fifth toe and the outer side of ZtZl toe (like the ulnar nerve in the palm), and the flexor brevis mmimi digiti. The deep branch furnishes nerves to the wo outer lumbricales, the adductor pollicis, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei. f K K498 SOLE OF THE FOOT. Having traced the principal vessels and nerves, di- oSsdes.'^ vide them with the flexor tendons near the os calcis, and turn them down toward the toes, to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and ad- ductor pollicis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the transversalis pedis. This muscle aHses from the external cuneiform and ■^imcis^'''''^'^ cuboid bones. It proceeds along the metatarsal bone ^° "^'^ of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on each side of the long flexor tendon, and are inserted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. The inner tendon is inseparably connected with the abductor pollicis, the outer with the adductor pollicis. In each tendon there is a sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the strength of the muscle, but both together form a pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon; so that in walking the tendon is not pressed upon. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar. This very powerful muscle arises from the cuboid, ^'^,^.''9''°'^ and the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Parsing ^° obliquely across the foot, it is inserted through the external sesamoid bone into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe together with the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle greatly contributes to support the arch of the foot. Like the adductor of the thumb it should be considered as an interosseous muscle. This little muscle arises from the base of the fifth Flexor brevis j^^etatarsal bone, proceeds forwards along it, and is minimi digiti. .^^^ ^^g^ ti^e first phalanx of the little This slender muscle runs transversely across the TransversaUs ^^^g ^-^^ metatarsal bones. It anses by little fleshy slips from the four outer toes, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor pollicis, of which it ought to be considered a part. The fourth layer of muscles consists of the interossei.SOi-E OF THE FOOT. 499 Interossei. ^^^^^ muscles are arranged nearly like those in the palm. They occupy the intervals between the meta- tarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, three on the plantar. They arise from the sides of the metatarsal bones, and terminate in tendons which are inserted, some into the inner, others into the outer side of the first phalanges of the toes and their extensor tendons. Their use is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do this or that according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw an imaginary longitudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw from that line, and' the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all; A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the palm (p. 292). Between the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are little bursse to facilitate movement. These burs^ are not without interest. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Now trace the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. It runs through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, lined throughout by synovial membrane. ^ The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence under the head of the astragalus-to the scaphoid bone into which it is chiefly inserted. One or two slips are sent off to the cuneiform bones Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus,_and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid u . .''''' ^^'^ ""^^y provisions for the solidity of the arch of the foot. K K 2500 LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. The sacrum is united to the last lumbar vertebra in Ligaments of gg^^^^g manner as one vertebra is to another. The same observation applies to the union between the sacrum and the coccyx. The student should, therefore, refer to the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 210). The innominate bones are connected to each other in front, constituting the ' symphysis pubis ;' posteriorly to the sacrum, constituting the ' sacro-iliac symphysis: Pig. no. Great eacro-iBchiatic ligament, Lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament Ilio-femora! or accessory ligament o£ the hip-joint. Pubic sympliysis This is secured by, 1, an aiiimor ligament, consisting of superficial fibres which run obliquely, and of deep fibres which pass transversely; 2, a posterior ligament, less distinct; 3, a sub-pubic ligament, or ' ligamentum arcuatum: it is very strong, and rounds off the point of the pubic arch ; 4, a suverior ligament which passes across the upper surface ot the mibic bones ; 5, an intermediate fibro-cartilage. A perpendicular section through it shows that it consists of concentric layers, andLIGAMENTS OF THE HIP. 501 that its general structure resembles that between the bodies of the vertebra. In the upper part of this fibro-cartilage is a smooth cavity lined with epithelium. The cartilage acts like a buffer, and breaks the force of shocks passing through the pelvic arch. The ileum is connected with the fifth lumbar vertebra by the ilio-lumbar ligament. It is very strong, and extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ileum (fig. 111). This is secured by, I, an anterior ligament which symphysis, consists ot ligamentous fibres passing in front; 2, a posterior ligament, composed of fibres much stronger and more marked, which pass behind the articulation. The anterior part of the bones forming this articulation is crusted with articular cartilage, of which the shape is like that of the ear. Behind this is the strong interosseoits ligament, which contributes powerfully to the security of the joint. Sacro-ischiatic ^^^'^ ^""^ ^^"^ "^'"''''^ ligaments passing from the ligaments. sacrum to the ischium. The great sacro-ischiatic extends from the posterior inferior spine of the ileum, and the side of the sacrum and coccyx, to the tuberosity of the ischium. The lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament passes from the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium. These two hgaments not only connect the bones, but also, from their great breadth, contribute to block up the lower aperture of the pelvis. Ligaments of ^^^^ i^^^^ is secured by the form of the bones and JcTiK f!^ '^'^""^^^ °^ P^^e^-f^l ^^^^scles which surround Alth ough a perfect ball-and-socket joint, its motion as somewhat limited: the disposition of its ligaments restricts its range of motion to those directions only which are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect attitude, and the requirements of this part of the skeleton. Capsular • ligament is attached above to the ligament. Circumference of the acetabulum at a little distance external to the margin, and also to the transverse ligament; belowto the inter-trochanteric ridge of the femur in front,LIGAMENTS OP THE HIT 502 and to the middle of the neck behind. The capsule is made exceedingly thick and strong in front, by a broad ligament, ilio- femoral, which extends from the anterior inferior iliac spine to the anterior inter-trochanteric line. This ligament is very strong, and serves as a strap to prevent the femur being extended beyond a certain limit; and to prevent the body from rolling backwards at the hip. llio-lumbar ligament Interosseous ligament Open the capsule to as- certain the enormous thick- ness of it in front, and the strong hold it has upon the bones. This exposes the coty- loid ligament, and the liga- mentum teres. Theligamentum Ligamen- ^ -g exposed by turn tei-es. ^ ■' drawing the head of the femur out of the socket. This ligament is somewhat flat and triangular. Its base is attached, below, to the borders of the notch in the acetabulum; its apex to the fossa in the head of the femur. To prevent pressure on it, and to allow free room for its play, there is a gap at the bottom of the acetabulum. This gap is not crusted with cartilage like the rest of the socket, but is occupied by soft fat. The liga- mentum teres is surrounded by the synovial membrane. A little artery runs up with it to the head of the femur. It is a branch of the obturator, and enters the acetabulum through the notch at the lower part. . The chief use of the ligamentum teres is to assist m steadying the pelvis on the thigh in the erect position. In this position, the ligament is vertical, and quite tight (fig. HI) : it therefore prevents VEHTICAI, SECTION THHOTTGH THE HIP.503 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. Another purpose served by this ligament is to limit rotation of the thigh, both inwards and outwards. The cotyloid ligament is a piece of fibro-cartil.ige li°ament which is attached all round the margin of the aceta- bulum. Its circumference is thicker than its free margin which shelves off; thus it not only deepens the cavity, but embraces the head of the femur like a sucker. It extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and in this situation has received the name of the ' transverse' ligament. The ligaments of the hip are so arranged, that when we ' stand at ease,' the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted ; for the accessory ligament (ilio femoral) of the capsule prevents it from rolling backwards, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in balancing the trunk. The synovial membrane extends down to the base of the neck of the femur in front, but only two-thirds down behind. It is laid upon a thick periosteum. The head of the thigh-bone is kept in the acetabulum by at- mospheric pressure; the amount of this is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip- joint, the influence of the atmospheric pressure is diminished in proportion; and the bones being no longer maintained in accurate contact, it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to what is called a spontaneous dis- location. Ligaments knee-joint is a hinge-joint, and looking at the OF THE skeleton, one would suppose that it was very insecure. KXEE-joiNT. -g^^ nature has made up for this apparent insecurity by powerful ligaments, and by surrounding the joint on all sides with a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which move it.LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, 504 Capsular ligament. First examine the tendons concerned in the con- struction of the capsular ligament. In front is the ligamentum patelloe; on either side are the tendons of the vasti; at the back of the joint four tendons contribute to form the capsule—namely, the tendons of the gastrocnemius, the tendon of the semimembranosus, and of the popliteus. It deserves to be noticed that the weakest part of the capsule is near the tendon of the popliteus : here, therefore, matter formed in the popliteal space may make its way into the joint, or vice versa. Exclusive of the capsule, the proper ligaments of the joint are — I, the lateral; 2, the crucial in the interior. This is a broad flat band, which extends from the ral ligament." condyle of the femur to the inner side of the tibia, a little below its head. A few of the deeper fibres are attached to the inner semi-lunar cartilage, and serve to keep it in place. The inferior internal articular artery, and part of the tendon of the semimembranosus, pass underneath this ligament. In the several motions of the joint, there is a certain amount of friction between the liga- ment and the head of the tibia, and con- sequently a small bursa is interposed. This is a strong round STgte^r band, which extends from the outer condyle of the femur to the head of the fibula. This ligament separates the two divisions of the tendinous insertion of the biceps. Posterior to, and running parallel with, the external lateral ligament is a smaller band of fibres, called the short external lateral ligament. This, which is generally called ' ligamentum posti- cum Winslowii,' consists of expansions derived from the tendons at the back of the joint, chiefly, however. Fig. 112. Posterior ligament. 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. External ditto.LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 505 Tig. 113. from the semimembranosus. It not only closes and protects the joint behind, but prevents its extension beyond the perpendicular. The joint should be opened above the patella. Observe the great extent of the fold which the synovial membrane forms above this bone.* The use of it is to allow the free play of the bone over the lower part of the femur. The fold extends higher above the inner than the outer condyle, which accounts for the form of the swelling produced by effusion into the joint, ^ Below the patella a slender band of the synovial synovial membrane proceeds backwards to the space between membrane. ^-^^ condyles. It is Called the 'ligamentum mu- cosum:' the edges of it are called the ' ligamenta alaria.^ These are not true ligaments, but merely remnants of the partition, which, in the early stage of the joint's growth, divided it into two halves. Immediately outside the synovial membrane there is always more or less fat; especially under the ligamentum patellae. Its use is to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself to the several move- ments of the joint. The crucial ligaments, so named ligaments because they cross like the letter X, extend from the mesial side of each condyle to the head of the tibia. The anterior, a, b, the smaller, ascends from the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia, backwards and outwards to the external condyle. The posterior, c, d, best seen from behind, extends from the fossa behind the spine of the tibia forwards to the inner condyle. Between the condyles and the articular surfaces of cular or the tibia are two incomplete rings of fibro-cartilage, semi-lunar shaped like the letter C. They serve to deepen the cartilages. articular surfaces of the tibia ; their mobilit}'- and elas- ticity enable them to adapt themselves to the condyles in the * In performing operations near the knee, tlie joint should always be bent in order to draw the synovial fold as much as possible out of the yfuj. a, b. Anterior crucial ligament, c, d. Postei'ior ditto. e. Tibio-fibular.LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 506 several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface; they equalise pressure and prevent shocks. They are thickest at the circumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 112. Their form is suited to the condyles; the inner being oval, the outer circular. The ends of each are firmly attached by ligaments to the pits in front and behind the spine of the tibia; but the ends of the in- ternal one are attached further from the spine than the external. The cartilages are connected in front by a thin ' transverse' liga- ment ; and their circumference is attached round the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue (called the ' coronary ' ligament), yet not so closely as to restrict their range of motion.* Their respective points of attachment are such, that Uglmcnts^^^ when the joint is extended, all the ligaments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory movement of the tibia. This movement is more free outwards than inwards; and is effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own Pig. 114. axis, but by rotation of the outer head round the inner. Eotation outwards is produced by the biceps; rotation inwards by the popliteus and semimembranosus. The crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes as the coronoid process and the olecranon of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly forwards and backwards. The anterior espe- cially limits extension ; the po.sterior, flexion. They not only prevent dislocation in front or behind, but they prevent lateral displacement, since they cross each other like braces, as shown in fig. 114. » Of the two cartilages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in Totation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Conse- quently, it is not iu any way connected to the lateral ligament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facilitated by a bursa communicating freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation.LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 507 There is a distinct joint between the upper ends of CONNECTING i^he tibia and fibula, although it admits of little move- THE TIBIA ment. It is firmly secured by oblique ligaments in AND FiBuiJi. ^^.^j^j. behind ; their fibres being directed down- wards and outwards (p. 505). The contiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the great majority of in- stances its synovial membrane is independent; but it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee. The shafts of the bones are connected by the in- membranr^^ terosseous membrane. The purpose of this is to afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula, but some cross like the letter X. The anterior tibial artery comes forward above the interosseous membrane. It is perforated here and there for the passage of blood vessels. , „ . . The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are most firmly Inlenor tibio- . fibular liga- connected, for it is essential to the solidity of the ankle- ments. joint that there be no motion between them. They are secured by an oblique ligament in front and behind, and by strong ligamentous fibres, intei-osseous, which connect their contiguous surfaces, and answer the purpose of rivets. Besides these, a strong fibro-cartilaginous ligament proceeds from the end of the fibula, and is attached along the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The object of it is to deepen the excavation of the tibia, and enable it to adapt itself more accurately to the articular surface of the astraofalus. LiGAjiENTs From the form of the bones, it is obvious that the OF THE ankle is a hinge-joint; consequently, its security de- ANKiE-joiNT. pgj^jg ^pf^^ ^j^g gj.gg^^ strength of its lateral ligaments. The hinge, however, is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. Internal '^^^^ ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, lateral. * deltoid,' is exceedingly thick and strong, and com- pensates for the comparative shortness of the malleolus on this side (fig. 115). The great strength of it is proved by theLIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. fact, that in dislocations of the ankle inwards, the summit of the malleolus is more likely to be broken off than the ligament to be torn. It extends from a deep excavation at the apex of the malleolus, radiates from this point, and is attached to the side of the astragalus, also to the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone. Besides this, some of its fibres are inserted into, and become Fig. 115, 1. Plantar fascia. 2. Calcaneo-scaplioid or elastic ligament wWcli supports the head of the astragalus. 3. Internal lateral ligament, called from its shape deltoid. identified with, the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, so as to brace it up internally (fig. 115). This ligament consists of three distinct parts—an Serar^ anterior, a posterior, and a middle (fig. 116). All three arise from an excavation near the summit of the external malleolus; the first two are inserted into the front and the back of the astragalus respectively ; the middle into the outer sur- face of the OS calcis. The closure of the ioint is completed, in front and Anterior and , •' , . ,. ,^ .. i j posterior behind, by an anterior and a posterior ligament attached ligament. bones near their articular surfaces, and sufficiently loose to permit the necessary range of motion.LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 509 Fig. 116. Besides flexion and extension, the ankle-joint admits of a slight lateral movement, only permitted in the extended state of the joint. This is useful to us in the di- rection of our steps. In adaptation to this movement the internal malleolus is made shorter than the outer ; it is not so tightly confined by its ligaments, and its articular surface is part of a cylinder. Open the joint to see that the breadth of the articular surfaces of the bones is greater in front than behind. The ob- ject of this is to render the astragalus less liable to be dislocated backwards. Whenever this happens, the astragalus must of necessity become firmly locked between the malleoli. The astragalus is the comTiNG key-stone of the arch of the THE BONES OF foot, aud supports the whole THE FOOT. -yyeigiit of the body. It arti- culates with the OS calcis and the os sca- phoides in such a manner as to permit the abduction and adduction of the foot, so useful in the direction of our steps. The astragalus articulates with the os calcis by two distinct surfaces, respecting which remark, that the anterior is sKghtly convex, and the posterior slightly concave. This adaptation of itself contributes much to prevent the separation of the bones. But their principal bond of union is a strong interosse- l^MiTnt°^^ ows ligament which occupies the interval between them (fig. 116). In the skeleton the head of the astragalus articulates in front with the OS scaphoides, but a part of it is unsupported below. In Calcaneo- ^^^^ interval it is supported by a very strong and elastic scaphoid ligament, which extends from the os calcis to the os ligament. scaphoides (fig. 117). These bones, together with the. DIAGBAM OF THE EXTEENAl LATE- EAl LIGAMENT. 1. Anterior part. 2. Posterior part. 3. Middle pan. 4. Interosseous ligament.510 LIGAMENTS OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. Fig. 117. ligament, form a complete socket for the head of the astragalus; it is this joint, chiefly, which permits the abduction and adduction of the foot. The chief peculiarity about the ligament is its elasticity. It acts in all re- spects like a spring, and allows to the key- stone of the arch a certain amount of play which is of great service in preventing con- cussion of the body. Whenever this ligament loses its elastic property, a.s is often the case with those who are in the habit of carrying heavy burdens, the arch of the foot gradually yields, and the individual becomes flat-footed. The OS calcis articulates with the os cuboides nearly on a line with the articulation between the astragalus and the os ecaphoides. The Calcaneo- ^ones are most firmly connected by cuboid means of a powerful ligament in ligament, ^-^^ sole, called the calcaneo-cuboid, or * ligamenttim longum plantae.' Some of its fibres extend forwards as far as the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. It would be tedious to enumerate individually the several liga- ments which connect the remaining bones of the tarsus and meta- tarsus. Let it then suffice to say, that they are firmly braced together by very strong ligaments, both on their dorsal and their plantar surfaces, and by interosseous ligaments which extend be- tween their contiguous surfaces, like rivets. Thousfh there is very little motion between any two bones, the collective amount is such that the foot is enabled to adapt itself accur- ately to the ground: pressure is more equally Interosseous ligaments of ° ^ .1.1 • the wedge bones. distributed, and consequently there is a firmer basis for the support of the body. Being composed, moreover, of several pieces, each of which possesses a certain elasticity, the foot gains a general springiness and solidity which could n'>t have resulted from a single bone. 1. Calcaneo-scaphoid li- gament. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment.511 DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. Exclusive of the ankle-joint and the phalanges of the mPTObranes toes, the bones of the foot are provided with six dis- of the tarsus, ^jj^^j. gyQovial membranes ; namely— a. Between the posterior articular sirrface of the astragalus and OS calcis. h. Between the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid, and between the anterior articular surface of the astragalus and os calcis. c. Between the os calcis and the os cuboides. d. Between the inner cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. e. Between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, and be- tween these and the adjoining bones (the great toe excepted). /. Between the os cuboides and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The phalanges of the toes are connected in all respects like those of the fingers. See the description given in the dissection of the hand (p. 306). DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. Membranes Previous to the examination of the brain itself, we of the brain, should study the structure and uses of the three mem- branes by which it is surrounded. The first, the 'dura mater,' has been described (p. 5). The second is a serous membrane, termed the ' arachnoid;' the third is a very vascular one, termed the ' jpia mater.^ Arachnoid T^hx^ second investment forms the smooth, polished membrane, surface of the brain, exposed after the removal of the dura mater. It is named ' arachnoid ' from the delicacy of its texture, like a spider's web. It is a serous membrane, and, like all others of the kind, forms a closed sac, one part of which, the * parietal' layer, lines the under surface of the dura mater; the other, the ' visceral,' is reflected over the brain : this re- flection takes place along the nerves which leave the base of the skull. The inner surface of this membrane is perfectly smooth, and512 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, lubricated by a serous fluid to prevent friction; since the brain rises and falls with a slight pulsation, caused in part by the action of the heart, in part by respiration. The parietal layer is so thin that it cannot be demonstrated as a distinct layer; it consists of little more than a layer of squamous epithelium, lining the inner aspect of the dura mater. But the visceral layer is obvious: colourless and transparent, it is spread uniformly over the surface of the brain, and does not dip into the furrows between the con- volutions. On account of its extreme tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, it cannot be readily separated from this membrane; but there are parts at the base of the brain, termed ' sub-arachnoid' spaces, where the arachnoid membrane can be seen distinct from the subjacent tissue. , The arachnoid membrane is separated in certain SuD-arachnoid n -j / l spaces and situations from the pia mater by a serous fluid {cereoro- fluid. spinal) contained in the meshes of very delicate areolar tissue. Such spaces are called ' suh-arachnoicV There is one in the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, where the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across below the edge of the falx, a little above the corpus callosum. At the base of the brain there are two of considerable size :—one, the ' middle sub-arachnoid space,' is situated between the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves; the other, the ' posterior,' is situated between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. In the spinal cord, also, there is a considerable interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater occupied by fluid. The purpose of this fluid is, not only to fill up space, like fat in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The base of the brain may, in truth, be said to be supported by abed of fluid, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of the surface, and surrounds all the nerves down to the foramina, through which they pass. This fluid sometimes escapes through the ear, in cases of fracture through the base of the skull, involving the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone.513 MEMBRANES OF THE BKAIN, p. This, the immediate investing membrane of the brain, is extremely vascular; and composed of a net- work of blood vessels held together by the finest connective tissue. From its internal sui'face, small branches pass off at right angles into the interior of the brain. The pia mater dips into the fissures between the convolutions, and penetrates into the ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming the ' velum interpositum ' and the ' choroid plexuses.' The brain is supplied with blood by the two internal Arteries ot carotid and the two vertebral arteries. the brain. This artery enters the skull through the carotid canal Intermil in the temporal bone, and mounts up very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. It appears on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and, after giving off the ophthalmic, divides into the anterior and middle cerebral, and the posterior communicating arteries. a. The anterior cerebral artery sinks into the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, and then runs backwards along its upper surface (under the name of artery of the corpus callosum), and terminates in branches which anastomose with the posterior cerebral. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together; and at the base of the brain are connected■ by a transverse branch, called the ' anterior communicating aHory' (fig. 119). 6. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, runs deep in the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into many branches, distributed to the anterior and middle lobes. Near its origin it gives off a multitude of. little arteries, which pierce the locus perforatus a,nticus to supply the corpus striatum. c. The posterior communicating artery proceeds directly back- wards to join the posterior cerebral; thus establishing at the base of the brain the free arterial inosculation called the ' circle of Willis.' d. The anterior choroid artery, a small branch of the internal514 DISSECTION OF THE BllAIN. carotid, arises external to the posterior communicating artery. It runs backwards, and terminates in the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. This artery, a branch of the subclavian, winds back- wards along the arch of the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum, curving round the Fig. 119. Vertebral lU'tery. Bnlb of olfactory nerve Second pair or optic nerve Locus perforatus anticus, TractuB opticus. . . Crus cerebri .... Third pair of nerves . Fourth pair of nerves Fifth pair of nerves . Sixth pair of nerves . Pyramid Olive . Vertebral artery Anterior spinal a. Anterior cerebral a. Middle cerebral a. Tuber cincrenm. ■Slammillary body. LocuB pcrforatuB medifl Posterior cerebral a. •Superior cerebellar a. Pons Varolii. •Inferior cerebellar a. Seventh pair of nerves. Eighth pair of nerves. .Ninth pair of nerves. Cerebellum. medulla oblongata between the hypoglossal nerve, and the anterior root of the first cervical. At the lower border of the pons, the two arteries unite to form the ' basilar; which proceeds along theCIRCLE OF WILLIS. 515 middle of the pons, and divides at its upper border into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Each vertebral artery before joining its fellow gives off— a. A posterior meningeal branch distributed to the posterior fossa of the skull. h. Antenor and -posterior spinal arteries, which supply the front and back surfaces of the spinal cord. c. The infeHor cerebellar artery, sometimes a branch of the basilar, but more frequently of the vertebral, passes backwards, and supplies the lower surface of the cerebellum. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral, in its course along the pons gives off on each side— a. Transverse branches whic?! pass outwards on the pons : one, the auditory, enters the meatus auditorius internus with the auditory nerve ; another, the anterior cerebellar, supplies the front part of the lower surface of the cerebellum. b. The supeHor cerebellar, which supplies the upper surface of the cerebellum. c. The posterior cerebral, the terminal branches, run outwards and backwards, one on the under surface of each posterior cerebral lobe, and divide into numerous branches, which ultimately inos- culate with the outer cerebral arteries. Each gives off a small posterior choroid artery distributed to the choroid plexus. This important arterial inosculation (fig. 119) is Wims°^ formed, laterally, by the two anterior cerebral, the two internal carotid, and the two posterior communicating- arteries : in front it is completed by the anterior communicating artery ; behind, by the two posterior cerebral. The tortuosity of the large arteries before they enter the brain is hatended to miti- gate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other quarters, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood in any of the more direct channels.* * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a beautiful provision has been made, in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of, equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter ll2516 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Besides the * circle of Willis,' there are other pecu- of the core-'' Harities in the circulation of the brain; namely, the bral circula- tortuosity of the four great vessels as they enter the skull — their passage through bony canals — their breaking up into minute arteries in the pia mater before they enter the substance of the brain—the formation of sinuses (p. 6) —the great minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls; a fact which accounts for the slowness with which a congested brain recovers itself. The mass of nervous matter contained within the Gbnerai, di- vision OF skull, designated under the common term bram, is THE BRAIN, (jiyided luto threc parts—the ' cerebrum,'' or intellectual brain, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; the ' cerebellum,'' or little brain, which occupies the lower and back part beneath the tentorium; the 'pons Varolii,'' or quadrilateral mass of white fibres, which rests upon the basilar process; and the ' medulla oblongata,' situated beneath the cere- bellum. This last part passes out of the skull through the foramen magnum, and is continuous with the spinal cord. The size of the brain varies in different subjects, but in an adult male the average weight is about 48 ounces; in an adult female, about 43 ounces.* This term is applied to that part of the cerebro-spinal Medulla ob- ^^^^ which is situated immediately below the pons longata. yarolii, and is continuous below with the spinal cord. Its form is pyramidal with the broadest part above; thence it gradually tapers into the spinal cord. It is about an inch and a quarter long, and nearly an inch in its thickest part. It lies on the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and descends obliquely the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite, so as to form a remarkable network 'of arteries, called by Galen, who first described it, the ' retc mirabile.' The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would other- wise enter the cranium, in the different positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed. * Dr, R. Boyd, Pliilos. Trans., 1860.517 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. backwards through the foramen magnum to the upper border of the atlas, where it is continuous with the spinal cord. Its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In front and behind, the medulla is marked by a median fissure—the anterim' and ■posterior median fissures, which are the continuations upwards of the median fissures of the spinal cord. The anterior terminates below the pons Varolii in a cul-de- Fig. 120. DIAGEAlt OF THE FEONT ST7EFACE OF THE MEDUIXA OBLONGATA. sac, named 'foramen ccecum;^ it is occupied by a fold of pia mater. On each half of the medulla, there stand out, in relief, four longitudinal columns. Those nearest to the anterior fissure are called the ' anterior pyramids.^ External to these are the * olivary bodies.' Still more external, and towards the posterior part of the medulla, are the ' restiform bodies;' lastly, on each side of the posterior median fissure, are the 'posterior pyramids.' The anterior pyramids are narrow below, but gradually increase in breadth as they ascend towards the pons, from which they are separated by a transverse groove. Their component fibres areDISSECTION or THE BIIAIN. 518 continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist therefore of motor fibres. They may be traced through the pons into the lower part of the crura cerebri. By gently sepa- rating the pyramids about an inch below the pons, you observe that their fibres on each side decussate (fig. 120). This is the ex- planation of ' cross paralysis;' i. e. when one side of the brain is injured, the loss of motor power is manifested on the opposite side of the body.* The decussation, consisting of three or four bundles of fibres on each side, takes place only between the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres run straight on without crossing over. These decussating fibres are prolongations of the deep fibres of the lateral columns of the cord, which here come forward to the sur- face, pushing aside the proper anterior columns. The olivary bodies are two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the anterior pyramids, and separated from the pons by a deep groove. They consist, externally, of white substance; when cut into, their interior presents a zigzag line of grey matter, called, from its shape, ' corpus dentatum.' This grey line forms a circuit, interrupted only on the upper and inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter in its centre. Arching round its lowe part some white fibres may be ohserved: these constitute the arciforr)i fibres of Rolando. The restiform bodies are situated on the outer side of and behind the olives. They are the continuations upwards of the posterior columns of the cord, and as they ascend, diverge from each other and pass into the cerebelhim, constituting its inferior crura (p. 519). In consequence of this divergence, the grey matter in the interior of the medulla oblongata is exposed; so that the floor of the fourth ventricle (of which the restiform bodies assist in forming the lateral boundaries) is grey. The restiform bodies consist partly of longitudinal white fibres derived from the posterior and lateral columns of the cord ; partly of grey matter contained * The phenomenon of ' cross paralysis' of sensation is explained by the fact made out by Brown Sequard, that the paths of sensory impressions cross each other in the grey matter of the cord.519 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. in tlieir interior, which is continuous with that in the posterior part of the spinal cord. The posterior pyramids are two slender white bundles placed on each side of the posterior median fissure (fig. 121). They pass upwards and then diverge from each other, forming the apex of the fourth ventricle. They proceed with the restiform bodies for some distance, leaving which, they are lost in the cerebrum. At Fig. 121. DIAGBAM OF THE FOUETH TENTEICLE AND EESTIFOEM: BODIES. 1. Thalamus opticus. 4. Processus a cerebello ad testes. 2. Nates and testes. 5. Eestifonn bodies diverging. 3. Origin of fourth nerve. 6. Origin of seventh or auditory nerve. their point of divergence the posterior pyramids become slightly enlarged, forming what is called the 'processus clavatus.'' When a longitudinal section is carefully made through the middle of the medulla oblongata, a number of white fibres are seen running in a horizontal direction, constituting a kind of septum between the two halves. Some of these septal fibres issue from the anterior median fissm-e, wind round the medulla, and constitute what are termed the arciform fibres of Eolando (p. 517); others, issuing from the posterior fissore, wind roimd in a similar manner,520 DISSECTION OF TIIK BKAIN. and form some of the transverse fibres seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle. Pons Varolii convex eminence (p. 517) is situated at the or tuber base of the brain, immediatelv above the medulla ob- annu are. longata. It corresponds with the basilar groove of the occipital bone. In its antero-posterior diameter it measures rather more than an inch. Down the middle runs a slight groove which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be carefully removed, we observe that its superficial fibres proceed transversely from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming the The great 50 commissuro great commissure or middle peduncles of the cerebellar bellum'^'^'^" Throughout the mammalia its size bears a direct ratio to the degree of development of these lobes ; there- fore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* The super- ficial fibres only are transverse; if these be removed, we see that the anterior fibres of the medulla run under them at right angles into the criu-a cerebri, like a river under a bridge. The pons, like the medulla oblongata, has an imperfect median septum, composed of horizontal fibres, which come from the floor of the fourth ventricle. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, the pons contains grey matter, which probably gives origin to fresh nerve fibres; so that the pons may be considered a source, as well as a conductor of power. The cerebnun, in man, is so much more developed Cerebrum. ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ hr&vo., that it completely overlays them. It is of an oval form and convex on its external aspect. It is divided in the middle line by the deep ' Longitudinal fissure' into two equal halves, tei-med the right and left hemi- spheres, f The fissure is occupied by the falx cerebri (p. 5). The * Birds, reptiles, and fishes have no pons, because there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum. t Examples are now and then met with where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line; the consequence of which want of symmeti^ is, that one hemi- sphere is larger than the other. Bichat (Recherches Physiologiques sur la Vie et la Mort, Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is remarkable that the examination of his own brain after death, went to prove the error of his own doctrine.MEDULLA OBLONGATA, 521 surface of each hemisphere is mapped out by tortuous eminences, termed 'gyri' or 'convolutions,'' separated from each other by deep furrows {sulci). Many of these furrows are occupied by the large veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled by sub- arachnoid fluid. The convolutions themselves are merely folds of the brain, for the purpose of increasing the extent of the ■surface upon which may be laid grey or vesicular nerve substance, now generally admitted to be the source of power. They are not precisely alike on both sides. Their number, disposition, and depth vary a little in diflferent individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered as an index of the degree of intelligence.* Since this grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white brain substance, it is often called the cortical substance.f The depth of the sulci between the convolutions varies in different subjects ; generally they penetrate to about an inch: hence it follows that two brains of apparently equal size may be very unequal in point of extent of surface for the grey matter, and therefore in amount of intellectual capability. Under the microscope, the cortical layer is seen to consist of four layers, two grey alternating with two of white ;^ * Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive complica- tions and arrangement into groups as we ascend in the higher classes, should consult M. Leuret, Anatomic Comparee du Systfeme Nerveux consider^e dans ses Eapports avec rintelligence: Paris, 1839 ; also M. FoviUe, Traits de I'Anat. du Syst^sme Ner- veux, &c.: Paris, 1844. t There are two kinds of nervous matter—the grey or vesicular, and the white or fibrous. The grey is exceedingly Avascular, and contains the nerve vesicles, which are generally allowed to be the source of power. The white consists of extremely delicate nerve fibres, is scantily provided with blood vessels, and is probably the mere con- ductor of power. The intense vascularity of the grey matter has been demonstrated by Mr. Quekett and Mr. Smee, who have had the kindness to allow the author to inspect their beau- tiful preparations. Mr. Smee's injections were made by using a solution of carmine in ammonia mixed with size. The minute arteries enter the surface of the grey matter, and break up in it into a network of fine capillaries. These capillaries are peculiar in being quite naked, and not supported, as in other parts, by cellular tissue. Hence it is they are so liable to give way, and allow their contents to escape : hence it is, they are fenced round by so many provisions calculated to break the force of the current of the blood—namely, the tortuosities of the arteries at the base of the bram, their sub- divisions in the pia mater, and the peculiar arrangement of the sinuses. I Six layers may be demonstrated in some situations, chiefly near the corpus cal-522 DISSECTION or THE BKAIN. the external layer being always white. Some of these convolutions from their size and regularity have received special names. The most important are as follow:— a. The gyrus fornicatus, or the convolution of the corpus callo- sum, commences close to the optic commissure, and curving along the free surface of the corpus callosum, winds round its posterior extremity, and terminates in the middle lobe forming the hippo- campus major. 6. The marginal convolution, or the convolution of the longi- tudinal fissure, begins in the posterior part of the anterior lobe, courses along the margin of the fissure, and after a tortuous course is lost on the under surface of the middle lobe. c. The island of Reil This may be seen by separating the middle from the anterior lobe, deep in the fissure of Sylvius. It is composed of a number of small convolutions connected with those adjoining. It corresponds to the under surface of the corpus striatum, and might, therefore, be called the lobe of that ganglion. The under surface of each cerebral hemisphere is not only con- voluted like the upper, but presents in addition three lobes (fig. 122), an anterior, middle, and pos- ^^122. terior, which fit into the base of the skull. The anterior lobe, triangular in shape, rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by a cleft called the ^fissure of Sylvius,'' which receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The middle lobe occupies the middle fossa of the skull, formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones. The jpos- 1,2,3. Anterior, middle, and poste- terior lobe rests ou the arch of the tento- nor lobes of the cerebrum. 4. Cerebellum. rium. Between this and the middle there 5. Pons Varolii. • i n -j. ^ j ii , e. Medulla oblongata. definite boundary, so that some anatomists enumerate only two lobes. losum. For an account of these laminae, and tlio best mode of examining them, see Baillarget, Eecherehes sur la Structure de la Couche Corticale des Circonvolutions du Cerveau, inserdes dans les Memoircs de I'Academie de M6decine, 1840.NOMENCLATURE OF PARTS AT BASE OP BRAIN. 523 The several objects seen at the base of the brain in STlirlrtr^the middle line should now be examined, proceeding in at the W order from the front (fig. 119, p. 514). In this de- of the brain. g^^,|p,.-oj^ the cerebral nerves are omitted. These will be examined hereafter. In the middle line dividing the anterior lobes is the longitudinal fissure. By gently separating the anterior lobes, we expose the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or the great transverse commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Continued backwards and outwards on each side from the corpus, callosum to the fissure of Sylvius, is a white band, called the- peduncle of the corpus callosum. Extending from the corpus callosum to the optic commissure is a layer of grey matter, lamina cinerea, which is continued backwards to the tuber cinereum. Be- tween the anterior and middle lobes is a deep fissure, ' the fissure of Sylvius,' at the bottom of which are situated the middle cerebral artery and the island of Eeil. The optic commissure, formed by the union of the two optic tracts, is seen in the middle line behind the lamina cinerea. At the root of the fissure of Sylvius, and in front of the optic tract, is a space, the locus perforatus anticus, the surface of v/hich is perforated by small blood vessels, which supply the corpus striatum. Immediately behind the optic com- missure is a simple elevation of the surface, consisting of grey matter, called the ' tuber cioiereum' From this a conical tube of reddish colour, termed the ' infundibulum,' descends to the * pituitary hody^ which occupies the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. The pituitary body consists of two lobes, the anterior and larger is of a reddish-brown colour, and concave behind to receive the posterior lobe. On section, it is composed of a soft pulpy mass of a yellowish-brown colour. Behind the tuber cinereum, are two round white bodies, the 'corpora mammillaria or alhicantia,' which are formed by the curling round of the anterior horns of the fornix. Between- the mammillary bodies and the pons is a depression of grey matter called tlie locus perforatus -posticus or pons Tarini, the surface of which is pierced by small vessels supplying the optic thalami. From the anterior border of524 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the pons, two round cords of white nervous matter, about half an inch thick, diverge from each other, one towards each hemisphere of the cerebrum. These are the eruo^a cerebri. Winding round the outer side of each crus is a soft white band, the ' tractU8 opticus; or root of the optic nerve. Fig. 123. 1. Olfactory n. 2. Optic n. 3. Crus cerebri. 4. Section of crus to show locus niger, 5. Corpus geniculatum externum. 6. Corpus geniculatnm Internum. 7. Corpora quadri- gemina. 8. Thalamus opticus. 9. Tractus opticus. 10. Corpus callosum. DIAGEAM OF THE ORIGINS OF THE OLFACTORY AND OPTIC NEEVBS. Origin op '^^^ cerebral nerves are given off in pairs, named THE cBHBBRAx thc first, sccond, third, &c., according to the order in NERVES. -which they appear, beginning from the front. There are nine pairs. Some are nerves of special sense—as the olfactory, the optic, the auditory; others are nerves of common sensation— as the large root of the fifth, the glosso-pharyngeal, and the pneumo- gastric; others, again, are nerves of motion—as the third, the fourth, the small root of the fifth, the sixth, the facial division of the seventh, the spinal accessory, and the ninth. ^ The olfactory nerve is triangular, and fits into a First pair or . olfactory furrow between the convolutions. It proceeds straight nerve. forwards under the anterior lobe, and terminates in IORIGIN or THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 525 the olfactory ganglion, which lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory ganglion is olive-shaped, of a reddish-grey colour and very soft consistence, due to a large amount of grey matter contained in it. It gives off from its under surface the true ol- factory nerves.* For the description of these, see p. 199. This nerve arises by three roots—an outer and an inner composed of white matter, and a central composed of grey (p. 524). The outer root passes forwards as a thin white line from the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and describes a curve with the concavity outwards. The inner root arises from the posterior extremity of the in- ternal convolution of the anterior cerebral lobe. The middle or grey root arises from the posterior extremity of the furrow in which the olfactory nerve is lodged ; to see it, there- fore, the nerve should be turned backwards. It contains white fibres in its interior which have been traced to the corpus striatum. These nerves proceed from the optic commissure, Second pair ^^^.^^^ the union of the two optic tracts. These or optic. •> tracts arise from the corpora quadrigemma, the corpora geniculata, and the optic thalami (p. 524). They wind round the crura cerebri, to which they are connected by their anterior borders, and join in the middle line to form the optic commissure. Tliis commissure rests on the sphenoid bone in front of the sella turcica. From the commissure each optic nerve, invested by its * Strictly speaking, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integral parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is called the origin of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homo- logous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the cms in animals which have very acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smell and the de- velopment of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, tliese lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in their interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in the hxunau foetus at an early period.526 DISSliCTION OF TIIK BRAIN. fibrous sheath, passes through the optic forameii into the orbit, and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the middle fibres of the nerve ; the outer fibres pass from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the same side; the inner fibres pass from one optic tract round to the optic tract of the opposite side; while in front of the commissure are fibres which pass from one optic nerve to its fellow (p. 529). The purpose of this partial crossing is not thoroughly understood. It was ingeniously supposed by Dr. Wollaston* to account for single vision, since the right halves and the left halves of the eyes would derive their nerve fibres from the same optic nerve. Third pair or '^^^ apparent origin of the third nerve is from the motores inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons. Some of its fibres, however, penetrate into the crus as far as the locus niger, and others to the corpora quadri- gemina, and valve of Vieussens (p. 524). It passes through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies all the muscles of the orbit, ex- cept the superior oblique and the rectus externus. ^ . The fourth nerve arises from the upper surface of orpathe^id. valve of Vieussens (p. 519). It runs transversely outwards, winds round the crus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye. Pifth pair '^^^ ^^^^ nerve consists of two roots, both of which or trigeminal arise apparently from the outer side of the pons Varolii (p. 517); but their real origin is deeper. The smaller and anterior of the two roots, consisting of motor fibres only, may be traced into the pyramidal tract in the pons ; the posterior and larger, consisting of purely sensitive fibres, may be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the restiform tract and the fasciculus teres. The nerve proceeds forwards over the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone: here is developed Tipon the sensitive root the great Gasserian ganglion. This root then divides into three branches : the ophthalmic, which passes through * Philos. Trans, of the Royal Society, 1824.ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 5-21 the sphenoidal fissure; the sujperior maxillary, which passes through the foramen rotundum; the inferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensibihty upon the parts they supply, which comprise nearly the entire head. The small motor root passes beneath the ganglion, with which it has no connection, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division, to be distributed to the miiscles of mastication. ^, . The sixth nerve emerges from the groove between the bixtn pair or i abducentes. pons and the medulla (p. 517), with both of which it 13 connected. Its deep origin has been traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. It leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the rectus externus of the eye. The seventh consists of two nerves, the portio dura, Seventh pair. jQ^scular nerve of the face, and the ^ortio mo^^is, or proper auditory nerve. The two nerves, of which the portio dura is the more internal, arise apparently from the lower part of the pons Varolii (p. 517). The deep origin of the portio dura is stated to come from the restiform and olivary fasciculi of the me- dulla. The real origin of the portio mollis is from the floor of the fourth ventricle by several transverse white filaments, which emerge from the median groove. The seventh pair enters the meatus auditorius internus, where they are connected by several filaments. For the further description of the j)ortio dura, see p. 194. The auditory nerve divides at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus into cochlear and vestibular branches which are distributed to the internal ear. Eighth pair ""^^^^^ Comprises three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, thepneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius (p. 517). The first two arise by several filaments from the restiform tract of the medulla close to the olive, through which their fibres may be traced to the grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nervus accessorius is composed of two parts, an upper or accessory portion, which arises from the side of the medulla oblongata, and a lower or spinal portion, which arises by a series of slender filaments from the lateral tract of the spinal cord as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. The spinal portion ascends^DISSKCTION OF THE nilAlK. 528 behind the liganientum denticulatum, into the ekull through the foramen magnum, and joins the accessory part. The nervus accessorius then passes tlarough the foramen jugulare, with the pneuraogastric and glosso-pharyngeal. The glosso-pharyngeal is distributed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the back of the tongue (p. 193). The pneuraogastric is distributed to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart and lungs, the oesophagus and the stomach. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. For the further description of these nerves, see pp. 21, 194. This nerve arises by several roots from the medulla hypoglossar ohlongata, along the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olive. Its fibres may be traced to the grey matter in the floor of the foiirth ventricle. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and the depressors of the os-hyoides and larynx. The brain should now be laid on its base. By gently the^brain" °^ Separating the hemispheres, we expose at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure a white band of nerve sub- stance, which is the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum, and termed the ' corpus callosum.'' Slice off the hemispheres down to the level of the grey^matter ^orpus callosum.* The cut surface presents a mass of white substance surrounded by a tortuous layer of grey matter, about one-eighth of an inch thick. This grey substance consists of four layers—two of grey alternating with two of white, the most external layer being white. In some places, chiefly at the base of the brain, six layers have been demonstrated. This transverse portion of white substance is the chief Corpus callo- cQ^^ectins: medium between the two hemispheres, and sum. ° ^ is called the great transverse commissure of the cere- * The section of the brain at the level of the corpus callosum was called by the old anatomists ' centrum ovale majiis;' at a higher level, the section was called 'centrum ovale minus.'CORPUS CALLOSUM. 329 brum.* It k about four inches long, and rather nearer to the front than to the back part of the brain. Its surface is slightly arched from before backwards. A shallow groove, called the * raphe,'' runs along the middle of its upper sui-face (fig. 124); in a fresh brain, two white streaks, named the nerves of Lancisi, run UPPEE SURFACE OF COE- Ptrs CAixosuir. 1,1. LinetE transversae. 2. Eaphi. 3, 3. Anterior cerebral a. Kg. 125. DIAGEAM OF JLAMINA CINEHBA. 1,1. Peduncles of corpus callosum. 2. Lamina cinerea. 3. Commissure of optic nerves. parallel to it. The surface of the. corpus callosum is marked by transverse lines which indicate the course of its fibres: these are the hnece transversce of the old anatomists. The anterior cerebral arteries proceed along the surface of the corpus callosum to the back of the brain. In a bram properly hardened by spirit, the fibres maybe traced congi-eeatinff owards the cox-pus caUosum from both hemispheres : hence they were caUed by Gal! the fibres of the brain. This anatomist applied tL aW name'^^^^^^^^ t^X:T^':^r"^"^^ '^^•-.^-Anat. et Physiol. duSys530 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. The anterior part of the corpus callosum turns downwards and backwards, forming a bend called its genu, or knee. The inferior part (rostrum) of this bend becomes gradually thinner, and termi- nates in two peduncles, which diverge from each other, and are lost, one in each fissure of Sylvius. Between these crura is placed the lamina cinerea (fig. 125). The posterior part of the corpus callosum terminates in a thick, round border, beneath which the Fig. 126. Toramen of Monro . Middle commissure . Anterior commissure. Lamina cinerea . . Optic nerve Pituitary gland Infimdibuluni | Tuber cinereum Corpus mammillare Locus perforatus posticus Pons Varolii Velum interpositum. Thalamus opticus. Pineal gland. Posterior commissure, Nates. Iter a tertlo ad quar' tnm ventriculum. Valve of Vieusseui. Fourth ventricle. Arachnoid membrane (reflected). Medulla oblongata VEETICAL SECTION THROUGH THE CORPUS CAU^OSUM, AND PARTS BELOW. pia mater enters the interior of the ventricles. A satisfactory view cannot be obtained of the arch formed by the corpus callo- sum, of its terminations in front and behind, and of the relative thickness of its different parts, without making a perpendicular section through a fresh brain, as shown in the diagram.* * The corpus calloaum is more or less developed in all mammalia, but is absent in birds, reptiles, and fish. It is not absolutely essential to the exercise of the intellect,LATERAL VENTRICLES. 531 The two cavities called the ' lateral ventricles' are ventrfcles. Situated, One in each hemisphere of the brain, beneath the corpus callosum. A longitudinal incision should be made on each side, about half an inch from the raphe of the corpus callosum. Care must be taken not to cut too near the middle line, in order to preserve the delicate partition which de- scends from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the ventricles from each other. They should be laid open through- out their whole extent. Their general form should be first ex- amined ; afterwards the several objects contained in them. The lateral ventricles are two cavities in the general mass of the brain, occasioned by the enlargement and folding backward of the cerebral lobes over the other parts of the central nervous axis. They are lined with a ciliated spheroidal epithelium, and contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in considerable quantity: when greatly in excess, it constitutes one form of the disease termed ' hydrocephalus.' The ventricles are crescentic in shape, with their backs towards each other. Each extends into the three lobes of the cerebral hemisphere, and consists of a central part or hody, and three horns, or cornua, anterior, middle, and posterior. The body, situated in the middle of the hemisphere, is separated from its fellow by the septum lucidum. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum; and on the floor, beginning from the front, are seen, the corpus striatum, the taenia semicircularis, the optic thalamus, the choroid plexus, and the fornix. The anterior liorn extends into the anterior lobe,' and as it passes forwards, slightly diverges from its fellow on the opposite side. The ^posterior horn may be traced into the posterior lobe, where it passes at first backwards and outwards, and then converges towards its fellow. In it take notice of an elevation of white matter, the 'hippocampus minor;' also of a triangular flat surface, called ' pes accessorius ' or ' eminentia collateralis.'* The for it has been found absent in the human subject without any particular intellectual Str!: —rfo^' ^« * The posterior horns are not always equally developed in both hemispheres, and ?I >I 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 532 middle horn runs into the middle lobe, descends towards the base of the brain, making a very curious curve, like a ram's horn—that is, in a direction backwards, outwards, downwards, forwards, and inwards; the initial letters of which make the memorial word * bodfi.' By cutting through the substance of the middle lobe, the ■windings of this horn can be followed; in it are the hippocampus major, the pes hippocampi, the posterior crus of the fornix, the choroid plexus, and the thalamus opticus. Fig. 127. 1. Corpus callosum. 2. Lateral ventricle. 3. Third ventricle. 4. Corpus striatum. 5. Thalamus opticus. 6. Corpus mammil- lare. 7. Choroid pleius. 8. Fornix. 9. Pituitary gland. TEANSYEESE PEEPBNDICTJXAB SECTION THEOUGH THE BBA.IN. Appearance on perpen- dicular sec- tion. letter T. If a perpendicular section were made across the middle of the brain, the lateral ventricles would appear as represented in fig. 127. Together with the third or middle ventricle, their shape slightly resembles the Such a section shows well the radiating fibres of the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum beneath it; also the beginning of the transverse fissure at the base of the brain, between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. sometimes they are absent in one or in both. They are only found in the brain of man and the qnadrumana. In the carnivora, ruminantia, solipeda, pachydermata, and rodentia, the lateral ventricles are prolonged into the largely developed olftictory lobes. This is the case in the human fcEtus only at an early period.533 LATERAL VENTRICLES. . The contents of the lateral ventricles should now be examined more in detail; also the transparent septum (septum lucidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. This body is so called because, when cut into, it ?Sum. presents alternate layers of white and grey matter.* It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it appears to be, for only a portion of it is seen projecting on the floor of the ventricle. The intra-ventricular portion is pear-shaped, with the large end forwards; and when traced backwards,is found to taper gradually to a point on the outside of the optic thalamus (p. 539). The under part (extra-ventricular portion) of the corpus striatum corresponds with the convolution at the base of the brain, known as the island of Heil, and also with the locus perforatus anticus—a spot at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, so called on account of the number and size of the blood vessels which pass in there to supply the mass of grey matter in question, Tseni se " '^^^^ ^ narrow semi-transparent band of longf- cimilarir" <^^^i^al white fibres, which skirts the posterior border of the corpus striatum (tig. 129). In front it is con- nected with the anterior crus of the fornix; behind, it is lost in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. A large vein from the corpus striatum passes underneath the ttenia semicircularis to join the vena Graleni. Septum ^'^^^ ^ ^^^^ almost transparent partition, wliich lucidum. descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus caUosum, and separates the an- terior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. It is attached above, to the corpus callosum; below, to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and the fornix (p. 530). It is not of equal depth throughout. The broadest part is in front, and corresponds with the knee of the corpus callosum. It becomes narrower behind, » The white lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the crus cerebr., wh.ch traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the Lm" sphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes called the antLo'cerebral ganglion "t as found m a 1 mammal.a, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles. Its pLise function 13 still unknown. • j.lb pieciseDISSECTION OF THE BltAIN. 534 and disappears where the corpus callosum and the fornix become continuous. The septum consists of two layers, which inclose a space called the 'fifth ventricle' ( fig. 128). Each layer is made up of white substance inside, and of grey outside; the ventricle be- tween them is closed in the adult, and lined by a delicate serous membrane, which secretes in it a minute quantity of fltud; but in foetal life it communicates with the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix.* Cut transversely through the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum, and turn forwards tbe anterior half. In this way the 1,1. Corpora striata. 2, 2. Tlialami optici. 3, 3, interior crura of fornix bend- ing down to join tlie corpora manunillaria. 4,4. PoBterlor crura pf the fornix joining the hip- pocampi. 5,6. Choroid plexus. 6,6. Hippocampi majores. 7. Corpus callosum cut through. 8. Fifth ventricla. DIAGHAM OF THE FOKNIX. (The an-ow is in the foramen of Monro.) ventricle of the septum will appear as in fig. 128. By turning back the posterior half of the corpus callosum, a view is obtained of the fornix. This proceeding requires care, or the fornix will be reflected also, since these two arches of nervous matter are here so closely connected. . c This is a layer of white matter extending m the torm Tornix. ^^^^ fj-Q^i before backwards, beneath the corpus callosum. It is the 'great longitudinal commissure,' and Hes » The development of the septum lucidum commences about the fifth montiof foet^ life, and proceeds from before backwards j>ari passu with the corpus callosum and fornix.LATERAL A^ENTRICLES. 535 over the velum interpositum (fig. 126, p. 530). Viewed from its upper surface, it is triangular, with the base behind, as shown in diagram 128. The broad part or body is connected to the corpus callosiim. From its anterior narrow part proceed two round white cords, called its anterior crura, one on each side of the mesial line. As they pass forwards, the crura descend towards the base of the brain, where, making a bend upon themselves, they form part of the corpora mammillaria, from which they may be traced, passing backwards to the optic thalami. Immediately behind, and below the anterior crura, is a passage through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are continuous with each other. This aperture is called the 'foramen of Monro ^ (fig. 126).* Strictly of Mraro speaking, it is not a foramen, but only a communication existing between the two lateral and the third ventricles. The 'postenor crura are continued downwards and outwards from the body of the fornix, as thin white bands, intimately connected with the concave side of the hippocampus major as far down as the pes hippocampi. Each band is called the tcenia hippocavipi, or the corpus fimhriatum.^ This is an elongated mass of grey matter covered appocampus ^-^j^ ^^UIq^ and is situated in the posterior part of the descending horn. It extends to the bottom of the horn, where it becomes somewhat expanded, and indented on the surface, so as to resemble the paw of an animal; whence its name, 'pes hippocampi: Attached along the front border of the hippocampus, is the posterior crus of the fornix. This mass, smaller than the preceding, is situated in ^ippocampus ^.j^g posterior horn. It consists of white matter ex- ternally, and corresponds to a deep convolution which projects into the ventricles. Between the hippocampus major and minor, is a triangular smooth surface, called the pes accessorius, or eminentia collateralis. * Monro, 'Microscopic Enquiries into the Nerves and Brain.' Edinburgh, 1780. t The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish; they are merely rudimentary in reptiles and birds: but all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, according to the degree of development of the cerebral hemispheres.536 DISSECTION OF THE liKAIN. The fornix should now be cut tlirough, and its two portions reflected. On the under surface of the posterior portion is seen a number of fibres arranged transversely, constituting what is termed the lyra. Between the fornix and the upper surface of the cerebellum is the ' transverse fissure, ov fissure of Bichat,'' through which the pia mater enters the ventricles. The fissure extends downwards on each side to the base of the brain, and terminates between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. It is of a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity directed forwards. ^ . ^ The velum interpositum, which supports the fornix, positum and should now be examined. This is a portion of the pia choroid mater, which penetrates into the ventricles through the fissure of Bichat, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, as shown at p. 530. The shape of this vascular veil is like that of the fornix, and its borders are rolled up so as to form the red fringe called the ' choroid plexus.' These plexuses consist almost entirely of the tortuous ramifications of minute arteries.* In front, they communicate with each other through the foramen of Monro ; behind, they descend with the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain, between the middle lobe of the cerebrum and the crus cerebri. From the under surface of the velum, two small vascular processes are prolonged into the third ventricle forming the choroid plexuses of that cavity. Vense Along the centi-e of the veil run two large veins, called ^ ' vence GalenV which return the blood from the ventri- "5 IP. cles into the straight sinus The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexus, must now be reflected to expose the following parts shown in diagram 129: — 1. A full view of the thalamus opticus. 2. Between the thalami optici is the ' third ventricle of the brain,' a deep vertical fissure, situated in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the 'pineal * In preparations where the choroid plexus is well injected, we see that they are covered with beautiful vascular villi. The villi themselves are covered with epi- IheUum.THALAMUS OPTICUS.—THIRD VENTKICLE. 537 gland,'' a vascular body, about tbe size of a pea. From the gland may be traced forwards two slender white cords, called its ' pedun- cles '—one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Passing transversely across are three commissures —anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the opposite sides of the brain. 5. Immedi- ately behind the pineal gland are four elevations, two on each side, called the 'corpora quadrigemina,^ or 'nates and testes.^ 6. These bodies are connected to the cerebellum by two bands, one on each side, termed the ^processus a cerebello ad testes.^ 7. Between these bands extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the 'valve of Vieussens,'' beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. This is the oval elevation seen on the floor of the opticuT^'^ lateral ventricle, immediately behind the corpus stri- atum and tsenia semicircularis. Though white on the surface, its interior consists of alternate layers of wliite and grey matter, like the corpus striatum.* The under surface of the thalamus rests upon its corresponding crus cerebri, and forms the roof of the descending or middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small emi- nences, termed the 'corpus genicidatum internum, and ex- ternum. These eminences are produced by small accumulations of grey matter beneath the surface. A narrow band of white matter connects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the internal one with the testes.f This is the narrow fissure which exists between the ven'tricle <^ptic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its roof is formed by the velum interpositum; the floor, which increases in depth in front, by certain parts at the * The elevation called the optic thalamus is occasioned by the interposition of a quantity of grey matter among the fibres of the crus cerebri. Gall termed it the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum, in opposition to the corpus striatum, which he termed the saiperior ganglion (Anat. et Phys. du Systeme Nery.: Paris, 1810). The epithet ' optic' applied to the thalamus might lead us to suppose that it presides over vision; but that it exercises very little influence over sight is rendered probable by comparative anatomy, by experimental physiology, and by pathology. t These bands are faintly marked in man, but more apparent in the lower animals.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 538 base of the brain-r-namely, the locus perforatus posticus, corpora maramillavia, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and lamina cinerea: all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown p. 530. In front it is bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix, and the anterior commissure; behind, it communicates with the foui-th ventricle through the ^iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum;' a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. By gently separating the optic thalami in a fresh Commissures. , • ,^ , .^ brain, you see tliat they are connected by a transverse layer of grey matter about half an inch in breadth. This is the Middle ''^'i'iddle commissure, sometimes called the soft, on account of its delicate consistence : in most brains it is generally torn before it can be examined.* The optic thalami ^ ^ . are also connected by a round white cord, called the posterior commissure. It is situated immediately in front of, and rather below the pineal gland. The corpora striata are connected by a round white cord, called the anteHor commissure: it lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. This commissure may be traced extending transversely through the corpus striatum of each side; then arch- ing backwards, its fibres are lost near the surface of the middle cerebral lobe. The third ventricle communicates with the lateral ventricles through the foramen of Monro, and with the fourth ventricle through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This very vascular heart-shaped body is situated Pineal gland, jjj^j^gjj^^^gjy front of the corpora quadrigemina. It is wrapped up in the velum. It has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thala- mus, and terminate by joining the crura of the fornix. In its interior is some gritty matter, consisting of phosphate of lime. * The soft commissure does not appear to be a very essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life; and in some instances, according to our observation, is never developed. The brothers Wenzel state that it is absent about once in seven subjects (De plenitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut. Tubingen, 1812).539 TUBERCULA QUADRIGEMINA. Although the pineal gland is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, its functions are entirely unknown. Corpus callosum cut through Ventricle of the septum luoidum Corpus striatum Anterior crura of the fornix . Anterior commissure .... Taenia semicircularia .... Middle commissure .... Thalamus opticus Crura of pineal gland.... Posterior commissure . . . Pineal gland Nates Testes 37*^ Valve of Vieussens ^rTMp- Processus a cerebello ad testes. . These are foiir eminences, situated, two on each side, qi'gemina. ^^^'^^^ P^^^^l gl^^^' Though white on the sur- face, they contain grey matter in the interior: this grey matter is accumulated here for the purpose of giving origin to the optic nerve. A more appropriate term for them would be the ' optic lobes,' instead of ' nates and testes,' handed down from the old anatomists.* * Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all vertebrate animals: they are the meso-cephalic lobes; they invariably give origin to the optic540 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Processus a S^^^^J flrawing back the overlapping cerebellum, cereboUo two broad white cords are seen, which pass backwards, ad testes. diverging from each other, from the corpora quadrige- mina to the cerebellum (fig. 129). These are the '■ suxjerior crura of the cerebellum.^ They[connect the cerebrum and the cere- bellum. The space between them is occupied by a thin layer of grey matter, which covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the ' valve of Vieussens.' The fourth'nerve arises from it bv several filaments. Two white bands proceed on each side from the cor- pora quadrigemina to join the optic thalamus and the optic tract. The third ventricle is connected with the fourth by ad quartiim Dieans of a canal large enough to admit a probe, which Tentricuhim, runs backwards beneath the posterior commissure and of Sylvius!'^ the corpora quadrigemina (p. 530). This passage, to- gether with the third and fourth ventricles, are per- sistent parts of the central canal which, in early foetal life, extended down the middle of the spinal cord. This cavity is situated between the cerebellum and Fourth j^i-jy posterior part of the medulla oblongata and pons ventricle. ^ . ° ^ Varolii. It is only a dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries, a vertical section should be made, as in dia- gram (p. 530). It appears triangular, and its boundaries are as follow:—The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall, by the valve of Vieussens and the aqueduct of Sylvius; the posterior wall, by the inferior vermi- form process of the cerebellum ; below, by the continuation of the arachnoid membrane on to the spinal cord ; and, laterally, by the processus a cerebello ad testes, posterior pyramids, and restiform bodies. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the lower part of the cavity, and forms the ' choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle.* nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are relatively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &c., who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance. ' * Tiedemann proposes to call the fourth ventricle the first; because, in the foetus, ilCALAMUS SCRIPTORIUS.—CEREBELLUM. 541 The anterior wall of the fourth ventricle is lozenffe- (^aiau)us shaped, and on it are the following objects, which should be separately examined (p. 519):—1. A median furrow, the remains of the primitive axis canal; running parallel to it on each side is a slight elevation, the fasciculus teres. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform colu7)ins or inferio7' crura cerebelli) pass off from the medulla oblongata, diverging like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The divergence of these cords with the median furrow was called by the old anatomists the ' cala- mus scriptorius.' 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is the grey substance of the medulla exposed by the divergence of its posterior or restiform columns : one mass, placed external to the fasciculus teres, has received the name of ' locus cairuleus.'' 4. On its anterior surface are seen a number of transverse white lines, emerging from the median groove, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. This portion of the brain is situated in the occipital CeEEBELLUM. „ , ,1,1 „ tossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its form is elliptical, with the broad diameter transverse. When the arachnoid mem- brane and the pia mater are removed, you observe that its surface is not arranged in convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It is laid out upon a plan adapted to produce a much greater super- ficial extent of grey matter. It consists of a multitude of thin plates, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little careful dissection, it is easy to separate some of the plates from each other, and to see that the intervening fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circum- ference of the cerebellum. The fissure at the circumference itself is the deepest of all, and nearly horizontal, so that it seems to divide the cerebellum into an upper and a lower segment. IS formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes; and because the ventricle of the septum lucidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.DISSECTION OV THE BRAIN. 542 The upper surface of the cerebellum slopes on each surface ^^'••^ing a ridge along the middle line, called the * sxvperior veymiform process.' Comparative anatomy proves that this is really the fundamental part of the cerebellum. The sides, called the ' hemispheres,' are merely ofifsets or wings, superadded for special purposes, and increase in size as we ascend in the vertebrate series, till in man they form by far the largest part of the organ. They are separated posteriorly by a perpen- dicular fissure, which receives the ' falx cerebelli.' On the upper surface of the cerebellum ai-e two lobes, which have received names, i.e. the quadrate lobe, situated on its external and anterior aspect, and the posterior lobe, placed along its posterior border. On the under surface of the cerebellum, its division Under [^^q t,wo hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep surface. f^j-j.^^ between them is called ' the valley.' The front part of it is occupied by the medulla oblongata. To examine the surface of the valley, the medulla must be raised, and the hemi- spheres separated from each other. Along the middle line of the valley, is the ' inferior vermiform process,' which is the under surface of the fundamental part of the cerebellum. Traced for- wards, this process terminates in the 'nodule',' traced backwards, it terminates in a small conical projection, called the 'pyramid:' between these, is a tongue-like body called the ' uvula.' Each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which fanciful names have been applied. That portion which immediately overlays the side of the medulla oblongata is called the 'tonsil' {amygdala): at the anterior part of each hemisphere, near the middle line, is a little lobe called the 'floc- culus,' or pneumogastric lobe. From either side of the uvula may be traced a thin valve-Hke fold of white substance, which proceeds in a semicircular direction to the floccuU. These folds form the posterior medullary velum.* To see this satisfactorily, the tonsils should be carefully separated from each other. * These were first pointed out by Tarini, and are sometimes caUed the ' mlves of Tari7ii' {AdYei-s. Anat. prima: Paris, 1750).PEDUNCLES OF THE CEREBELLUM. 543 In addition to the amygdala and flocculi already mentioned, other lobes have been described on the under surface of the cere- bellum. Thus, there is the digastric lobe, situated external to the amygdala; and behind this are successively the slender and the inferior posterior lobes. Ar,^»-„.o . To examine the internal structure of the cerebellum, of the a longitudinal section should be made through the mtenor. thickest part of one of the hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white matter, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the plates of the cere- bellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose appearance of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the ' arbor vitce;' it is a beautiful contrivance for bringing an extensive surface of the two kinds of nervous matter into connection with each other. Co usrhom ^^^^ Centre of the white nucleus of each hemi- boMeum''. spbere is an oval space, circumscribed by a zigzag line of grey matter. To this the name ' corpus dentatum or rhomboideum' has been given. It is displayed both by a vertical and by a horizontal section. Peduncles of The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro-spiual beHum'' ^^^^ ^^^^^ peduncles or crura—superior, middle, and inferior. With the medulla oblongata it is connected by means of the restiform tracts—these are called the processus a cerebello ad medullam or its inferior crura; with the cerebrum, by means of the processus a cerebello ad testes—these are called' its superior crura. The transverse fibres of the pons constitute the middle crura. Function. I?especting the function of the cerebellum, the arguments furnished by comparative anatomy render probable that it is a co-ordinator of muscular movements-e g in the action of walking, flying, swimming, &c.544 SPINAL CORD. DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. To see the spinal cord covered by its membranes, the arches of the vertebrsB must be removed by the saw. The first thing to be noticed is, that the cord does not occupy the whole area of the spinal canal. The dura mater does not adhere to the vertebra, and does not form their internal periosteum, as in the skull. Between the bones and this membrane, a space intervenes, which is filled by a soft, reddish-looking fat, by watery cellular tissue, and by the ramifications of a plexus of veins. The spine is remarkable for the number of large and Spinal system tortuous veins which ramify about it, inside and outside °^ the vertebral canal.* They are—1. The dorsal veins, which form a tortuous plexus outside tlie arches of the vertebrae. They send off branches, which pass through the ligamenta sub- flava, and end in the plexus inside the vertebral canal. 2. The veins from the bodies of the vertebrce emerge from their posterior surface, and empty themselves into, 3, the anterior longitudinal spinal veins: these, two in number, extend all down the spinal canal, behind the bodies of the vertebrae. 4. The postei-ior longi- tudinal spinal veins, like the anterior, run along the whole length of the spinal canal. They are situated inside the vertebral arches, and communicate with the anterior longitudinal veins by cross branches at frequent intervals. 5. The proper veins of the spinal cord, which lie within the dura mater. This complicated system of spinal veins discharges itself through the intervertebral fora- mina, in the several regions of the spine, as follow:—in the cervical, into the vertebral veins ; in the dorsal, into the inter- costal veins; in the lumbar, into the lumbar veins. None are provided with valves, hence they are liable to become congested m diseases of the spine. * An accui-ate description and representation of these veins has been given by Breschet, Essai sur les Veines dn Eachis, 4to.; Traits Anatomiqne sur le Systfeme Veineux, fol. avec planches.MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 545 Peculiar!- membranes of the spinal cord, though continuous ties of the with those of the brain, differ from them in certain ofThe and. I'^spects, and require separate notice. The 'dura mater' of the cord is a tough fibrous ura mater. j^gj^Q^jpane like that of the brain, but does not adhere to the bones, because such adhesion would impede the free move- ment of the vertebrae upon each other. It is attached above to the margin of the foramen magnum, and may be traced down- wards as a canal as far as the first bone of the sacrum, from which it is prolonged as a cord to the coccyx, where it becomes continuous with the periosteum. It forms a complete canal, which loosely surrounds the spinal cord, and sends off prolongations over each of the spinal nerves. These prolongations accompany the nerves only as far as the intervertebral foramina, and are then blended with the periosteum. Cut through the nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on each side, and remove the cord with the dura mater entire. Then slit up the dura mater along the middle line, to examine the arachnoid membrane. Arachnoid ^^^^ ' arachnoid membrane ' of the cord is a continu- membrTne. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ tl>e brain, and, like it, consists of a vis- ceral layer which surrounds the cord, and of a parietal, which lines the inner surface of the dura mater. The Adsceral layer is not in immediate contact with the pia mater underneath, but is separated from it by a transparent watery fluid contained in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue (p. 548). This cerebro- Cerebro s ' ^^^^^^ ^"^^ cannot be demonstrated unless the cord be naTfluid.'^" examined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.* The nerves proceeding from the cord tt'I7^'J^''^*°'"'°'^ situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid were fii-st discovered hy Haller (Element Phys. vol. iy. p. 87), and subsequently more minutely investigated by Magend,e (Recherches Phys. et Cliniques sur le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien, in 4to avec atlas: Pans, 1842). This physiologist has shown that if, during life, th; arches of the vertebra are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of Uae cord punctured, there issue jets of a fluid which had previously made the sheath tense. The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that in the general ventricular cavity. The collective amount of the fluid varies from 1 to 2 oz. or more.SrJNAL COUD. u46 are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the arachnoid; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. ^. Tlie pia mater of the cord is the protecting membrane ° ■ which immediately invests it. It is quite different from that of the brain, since it does not form a bed in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord : consecjuently it is much less vascular, more fibrous in its structure, and more adlierent to the substance of the cord. The fibres of which it is composed are rendered very evident by im- mersion for a time in water. It sends dovm thin folds into the anterior and posterior fissures of the cord, and is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, and forms their investing membrane, or ' neuri- lemma.' From the upper part of the second lumbar vertebra, the pia mater is continued down as a slender filament, called the 'filum terminalej' which runs in the middle of the bundle of nerves into which the spinal cord breaks up. It is prolonged to the sacrum, where it becomes continuous with the dura mater of the cord. In its upper part may be traced some nerve matter, continued from the spinal cord, and a small artery and vein. The pia mater sends off from each side of the cord, Ligamentum along its whole length, a fibrous band, ' ligamentum denticulatum. „ ■ r i denhculatum; which gives off a series ot processes to steady and support the cord. They are triangular, their bases being attached to the cord, and their points to the inside of the dura mater (fig. 130). There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on each side, and they lie between the anterior and posterior It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versL This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spine in children termed ' spina bifida.' In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour swell; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made'on the tumour with one hand, and the fontanelles of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal swelling decreases so is the brain felt to swell up accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the nervous axis generally. See also some remarks by Dr. Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 50, 1846.SEINAL . CORD. N N 2 5-47 Spinal coed. Pig. 130. Cauda equina. roots of the spinal nerves. The first process passes between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; the last one is found at the termination of the cord. The spinal cord is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis con- tained in the vertebral canal. It is the continuation of the medulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum down to the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a pointed manner, after having given off the great bundle of nerves termed 'cauda equina,' for the supply of the lower limbs.* ^"^^^^ of the ligamentom ine length ot the cord is about seven- j • 1 J • 1 1 . , Dura mater. teen or eighteen inches, and its general 2,2,2. Ligamentum denticuiatmu. form is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimensions throughout. It presents a slight enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region; another in the lower part of the dorsal, where the great nerves of the upper and lower limbs are given off. The upper or cervical enlargement reaches from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra; the lower or lumbar is situated opposite to the last dorsal vertebra. Pissures. ^^^^ divided into two symmetrical halves by a fissure in front and behind (fig. 131). The anterior fissure is the most distinct, and penetrates about one-third of the substance of the cord; it contains a fold of pia mater full of blood vessels for the supply of the interior. At the bottom of this fissure * Although the nerve substance of the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, yet the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, caUed 'Jihm termimle ' down to the base of the coccyx. The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of fcetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal • but after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrte grow away, so to speak, from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs See Tiedemann, Anatomie und Bildungsgeschichte des Gehirns im Pectus des Meuschen &c.; Niiremberg, 1816, '548 SPINAL CORD. is a transverse layer of white substance, named the aniemor com- missure, connecting the two anterior halves of the cord. The 'posterior fissure is so much less apparent than the anterior, that some anatomists altogether deny its existence; but it can be demonstrated by careful preparation, and, indeed, penetrates to a greater depth than the anterior, so that it reaches down to the grey matter in the centre of the cord. Besides the anterior and posterior fissures, along each half of the cord are two superficial grooves, from which the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves respectively emerge. These are the anterior and posterior lateral grooves. The posterior Fig. 131. 1. Dura mater. 2. Araclinoid mem- brane. 3. Ganglion on poBte- rior root of spinal nerve. 4. Anterior root of epinal nerve. 5,5. Seat of sub-arach- noid Snid. 6. Posterior branch of spinal nerve. 7. Anterior branch of spinal nerve. DIAQBAM OF A TKANSTEHSB SECTION THBOUGH THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBKANES. leads down to the posterior horn of the grey matter in the interior of the cord; the anterior is less distinct, and does not reach down to the anterior horn of grey matter. By these lateral Columns. gj.o(,^es each half of the cord is divided into three longitudinal columns—an anterior, a postenor, and a lateral. The anterior are motor columns, the posterior sensitive, the lateral probably contain both motor and sensitive filaments. A transverse section through the cord (fig. 131) shows Interior. ^^^^^ externally, it is composed of white nerve sub- stance, and that its interior contains grey matter, arranged in the form of two crescents placed one in each half of it, and connected across the centre by a portion called the '(/re?/ comviissure.'* * The grey matter in the interior of the cord of man and animals presents some- what different appearances in its different parts. These have been accurately de-.SPINAL CORD. 549 The posterior horns of the crescents are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the line of attach- ment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. Thirty-one pair of nerves arise from the spinal cord Sr^^s. —namely, 8 in the cervical region, 12 in the dorsal, 5 in the lumbar, 5 in the sacral, and 1 in the coccygeal. Each nerve comes off by two distinct series of roots—one from TVo roots, ^^^^^ fi'oi^ back of the cord. Sir semiitive ' Charles Bell first noticed the fact that the anterior roots an moor, consist exclusively of motor filaments, the posterior exclusively of sensitive. All converge and unite in the corre- sponding intervertebral foramen to form a single nerve, composed of both motor and sensitve filaments. The jposterior or sensitive roots proceed from the posterior lateral groove of the cord, and are thicker and more numerous than the anterior.* Previous to their union with the anterior roots, they are collected together and pass through a ganglion. This ganglion is of an oval form, and lies in the intervertebral foramen, where the roots of the nerves pass through the dura mater.f ° The anterior root arises from the groove between the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, and passes in front of the scribed and figured by Eolando, Eicherche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinale, con Figure, art. tratto dal Dizionario Periodico di Medicina, Torino 1824 8vo. p. 55. ' ' * The researches of Blandin, Anat. dcscript. t. ii., p. 648, 1838, have led him to establish the following relation between the respectiye size of the anterior and pos- terior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine :_ The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region » dorsal i> lumbar and sacral 2 1 u 1 1 1 This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in th^ upper extremity. t The ganglia of the two last sacral nerves lie within the dura mater.550 SPINAL CORD. ganglion on the posterior root, which it joins in the intervertebral foramen. The compound nerve formed by the junction of the two roots divides, outside the intervertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch. See diagram, p. 548. „ . . . The direction and length of the roots of the nerves Variation in o i • i i.t_ length of vary in the different regions of the spine, because the the roots. respective parts of the cord from which they arise are not opposite the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cervical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level: therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. But as we descend from the neck, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least two vertebrae higher than the foramina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves must of necessity pass down from it almost perpendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal. To this bundle of nerves the old anatomists have given the name of ' caucla equina,^ Cauda equina. . , , , , ? , m from its resemblance to a horse s tail. In brief, then, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two precisely symmetrical halves, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure; that the two halves are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure —at the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure; that each half of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal nerve fibres— an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral—the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves ; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which is the posterior commissure. -r,, 1 1 The cord is supplied with blood by—1, the anterior Blood yessels , ^ ,i j ii i of the cord, spinal artery, which commences at the medulla oD-SPINAL CORD. 551 longata by a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs down the cord, receiving, through the intervertebral foramina, numerous branches in its course from the vertebral, ascending cervical, intercostal, and lumbar arteries; 2, the fostenov spinal arteries, which proceed also from the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and ramify very irregularly on the back of the cord. On the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebrae, the spinal arteries of opposite sides communicate by numerous transverse branches along the entire length of the spine, thus resembling the arrangement of its venous plexuses. Punctions of '^^^ anterior columns consist exclusively of motor the columns fibres which originate from the grey matter of the brain ■ or that of the spinal cord, and carry the commands of the will and the power of reflex movement to the muscles. The posterior columns consist exclusively of sensitive fibres, which carry sensations, not, as was formerly believed, direct to the brain, but to the grey matter of the cord, through which alone, according to the recent experiments of Brown Sequard,* they are transmitted to the brain. The same experimentalist has also proved another unexpected fact—that sensations do not run up on the same side, but on the opposite. They cross in the cord; for instance, if the posterior column on the right side were injured, the left leg and not the right would be deprived of sensation. In the interior of the grey matter of the upper part of the spinal cord may be seen a central canal, the remains of the primordial canal of foetal life, which extends through the whole length of the cord. These are among the most complicate parts of oBLor'^""'"''^ central nervous system. They contain white pons'VAEOL^r grey matter,t intermixed. The white matter consists in part of a continuation of the lono-i- * See an able article on Brown Shard's experiments in the British and Forei-n Medico-Chirurgical Review by Mr. Thomas Smith. ° t The grey matter in the medulla oblongata is collected in three situations-! In the olives; 2. In the re.stiform tracts; 3. On the floor of the fourth ventricleSPINAL CORD. 552 tudinal fibres of the cord, in part of a new system of horizontal fibres. We will endeavour to trace the longitudinal fibres first; then the horizontal. Anterior "^^^ anterior columns (8), (fig. 132), having reached columns of the lower part of the medulla oblongata, are not con- the cord. tinued straight up through it, but diverge from each other, so as to allow a part of the lateral columns (9) to come Fig. 132. DIAGEAM OF THE COUHSE OF THE FIBRES OF THE COED. forward, and after decussation to form the pyramids (6). In their further progress the fibres of the anterior columns are disposed of thus : a small number of them run up and contribute to form the outer portion of their own pyramid; all the rest, after embracing the olive, pass up thi ough the deep strata of the pons, and thenSPINAL CORD. 553 divide into two bundles : one of these, called the fillet of Keil (12), mounts over the superior crus of the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina, beneath which it meets with the corresponding fillet of the opposite side ; the other proceeds with the crus cerebri to the cerebrum. lateral "^^^ lateral columns (9), on reaching the medulla ob-^ columns of lougata, are disposed of in three ways, as follows —Some the cord. q£ ^j.g g^^gg come forward between the diverging anterior columns, decussate in the middle line, and contribute to form the pyramid of the opposite side; others ascend with the restiforni tract into the cerebellum; a third set ascend along the floor of the fourth ventricle * (concealed by its superficial grey matter), and then along the upper part of the crus cerebri into the cerebrum. ■ The posterior columns (10) ascend under the name JrostBrior columns of of the restiform tracts at the back of the medulla oblon- cor/^'°^^ gata, diverge from each other, and are, for the most part, continued into the cerebellum, forming its inferior crura; but some of their fibres run on along the floor of the fourth ven- tricle (external to the fibres from the lateral columns), then along the upper part of the crura cerebri into the cerebrum. The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata and ^bres™*^*^^ P^°^ ""'^^'^ ^'"^^ accurately described and delineated by Stilling.f Some of them form a raphe, and divide the medulla oblongata and pons into symmetrical halves; others, arising apparently from the raphe, pass outwards in an arched manner through the lateral halves of the medulla; so that, when seen in a transverse section by transmitted light, they describe a series of curves, with the convexity forwards, throughout the entire thickness of the medulla. Some of these transverse fibres appear on the surface over the pyramid and the olive; these have received the name of'a^-ci/oj-m/&res'(p. 517). It is difficult to deter- mine the object of this system of transverse fibres, or what parts * These fibres constitute what are sometimes called the 'round cords' of the fourth ventricle. t Ueber die Medulla Oblongata. Erlangen, 1843.654 SPINAL CORD. they connect. Stilling and KoUiker,* who have deeply studied the subject, are both of opinion that they originate in the restiform tracts, and thence arch forwards—some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the tibres of the raphe. Internal struc. '^^^ P°^^ consists of transverse and longitudinal tiire of pons white fibres, with a considerable quantity of grey Varolii. matter in its interior. The superficial layer of fibres is obviously transverse, and connects the two wings of the cerebellum. After removing this first layer, we come upon the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids in their course to the crura cerebri (p. 552): these longitudinal fibres, however, are inter- sected by the deep transverse fibres of the pons, which, like the superficial, are continued into the cerebellum. The third and deepest layer of the pons consists entirely of longitudinal fibres, derived partly from the lateral, partly from the restiform tracts of the medulla. These are composed of longitudinal fibres, derived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral and res- tiform columns of the cord, and from the grey matter in the pons Varolii. If one of the crura be divided longitudinally, we find in the middle of it a layer of dark-coloured nervous matter, called * locus niger;' it separates the crus into an upper and a lower stratum of fibres. The lower stratum is tough and coarse, and consists of the continuation of the fibres proceeding from the pyramid and the pons. The upper stratum is much softer and finer in texture, and has received the name of the ' tegmentum:^ it is composed of the fibres proceeding from the lateral and the restiform columns; also from the superior commissure or crus of the cerebellum. Tracing the fibres of the crus cerebri into the cerebral hemi- sphere, we find that they diverge from each other, that its lower fibres ascend chiefly through the corpora striata, its upper fibres through the thalami optici. In passing through these great * Mikroskopische Anatomie, p, 454.555 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. ganglia, the crus receives a very large addition to its fibres: these then branch out widely towards all parts of the hemisphere, in order to reach the cortical substance on the surface. From what has been said, it appears that the crura or roots of the cerebellum and the cerebrum contain part of the motor and part of the sensitive tracts of the spinal cord. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Since the human eye cannot be obtained sufficiently fresh for anatomical purposes, the student should examine the eyes of animals, of the sheep or pig. The first thing to be done is to remove the conjunctival coat, and the loose connective tissue which unites it to the sclerotica. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane which lines Membrana the ocular surface of the eyelids and the front part of conjunctiva. eyeball. It is attached by loose folds to the sclerotic coat, so as not to impede the motions of the globe. The palpebral portion of it is very vascular, and provided with fine papillas which are abundantly supplied with nerves.* It is continued into the Meibomian glands, the puncta lachrymalia, and the ducts of the lachrymal gland. The ocular portion is thinner and has no papillae. It is nearly colourless, except when inflamed; it then becomes in- tensely vascular and of a bright scarlet colour. An abundant supply of nerves has been bestowed upon the membrane for the purpose of giving it that degree of sensibility necessary to guard the eye. The corneal portion is composed chiefly of epithelial cells, ar- ranged in layers. This portion of the conjunctiva cannot be sepa- rated by dissection in recent eyes, but it possesses the same acute sensibility as the rest of the conjunctiva. Changes produced by inflammation of the conjunctiva are often continued over the cornea, * These papillae were first pointed out by Eble, TJeber denBau und dieKrankheiten des Bindehaut des Auges.556 DISSECTION OV THE EVE, and cause the blood vessels on its surface to become injected, and its texture thickened and opaque.* Blood vessels ramify round the margin of the cornea, forming a network arranged in loops. The human eye is very nearly spherical, and would be quite so, but that the transparent part in front—the cornea—forms a seg- ment of a smaller sphere than the rest. Consequently, the antero- posterior diameter of the ball—about one inch—exceeds the trans- verse by about one line. The convexity of the cornea, however, varies in different persons, and at different periods of life; this is one cause of the several degrees of near-sight and far-sight. Coats AND '^^^ composed of three coats arranged one HUMouHs OF within the other. The external coat, consisting of the THE £ 7 ' 1 ^ scLerotic and cornea,' is fibrous, thick, and strong. The second coat, consisting of the ' choroid, the ins, and cilicoy pro- cesses,'' is composed of blood vessels, muscular tissue, and pigment cells, and is very dark in colour. The third coat, called the ' retina,' consists of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of light. The bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent humour called the ^vitreous.' Imbedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a movable curtain, called the ' iris,' in order to regulate the quantity of light which shall be admitted through the pupil. The space in which the iris is suspended is filled with a fluid termed the ' agioeous ' humour. The sclerotic is the tough protecting coat of the eye, Sclerotic and consists of white glistening fibres interlacing in all directions.! It covers about fths of the globe, the re- - * The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed their skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair like other parts. f The sclerotic coat of the eye in fislies is of extraordinary thickness and density, for obvious reasons ; and in birds this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates, fourteen or fifteen in number, arrafiged in a series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates are found in some of the reptiles, and particularly in the fossil icthyosauri and plcsiosauri.DISSECTIO^T OF THE EYE. 557 Fig. 133. INSEETION OF THE RECTI MtTSCOiES TinfTH ANTBEIOB CH-IABY ABTEKIES. maining ^tb being completed by the cornea. The thickest part of the sclerotic coat is at the back of the globe (fig. 134), and thinnest a short distance behind the cornea. The back of the sclerotic is perfor- ated by the optic nerve, which en- ters it a little on the nasal side of the axis of vision. The optic nerve at its entrance into the sclerotic is Very much constricted, and instead of passing through a single large aperture in this coat, enters it through a porous network of fibrous tissue called the lamina a^ibrosa.^ Around the optic nerve the sclerotic is perforated by the ciliary arteries, veins, and nerves, for the supply of the choroid coat and the iris. Towards the front, the sclerotic becomes much thinner, and about a quarter of an inch from the cornea it receives the insertion of the recti muscles ; here also it is perforated by the anterior ciliary arteries, which come for- ward along the tendons of these muscles, and form a vascular ring round the margin of the cornea. The sclerotic is composed of fibro-cellular tissue arranged in bundles which run, some longitudinally and some transversely. The longitudinal fibres are the most external and abundant. Under the microscope fusiform and stellate cells can be seen inter- spersed among the fibres, between which fine elastic fibres may also be demonstrated. The inner surface of the sclerotic is coated by a thin layer of areolar tissue impregnated with dark pigment cells. It is called ' lamina fusca: At present it is believed that no nerves exist in the sclerotic. To examine the cornea, it should be removed with the sclerotic coat. This should be done under water, by making a circular cut * In the centre of the lamina cribrosa is an opening larger tlian the rest, whieli serves for the transmission of the arteria centralis retinae. It is sometimes called the j)orm opticus.5o8 DISSECTION OF THE EYE; with scissors about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea. With a little care, it is easy to remove the outer coat of the eye without injuring the dark choroid coat, the ciliary liga- ment, or the iris. In the loose dark-brown cellular tissue between the sclerotic and the choroid are seen the ciliary nerves passing forwards towards the iris; their white colour makes them very conspicuous on the dark ground. The cornea is the brilliant and transparent coat Cornea. ^j^ich occupies about the anterior fifth of the globe. Although apparently delicate, yet it is quite as tough and thick as any part of the sclerotica. It is nearly circular in diameter and is about the ^^^th of an inch in thickness. It is firmly connected at its margin to the sclerotic, with the fibres of which it is con- tinuous. The margin of the sclerotic is beveled on the inside; that of the cornea on the outside; so that the former overlaps the latter (fig. 134).OlSSECTlDN OF THE EYEl 5oD The cornea consists of five layers, which are not all Structiire. cQj^poged of the same kind of tissue. The first layer is the conjunctival. This consists of several strata of epithelial cells, the superficial ones being flattened; the deeper ones, the naore numerous, being placed vertically. The second layer is about the t^Vo^^ ^^^^ thick, and consists of an extremely elastic tissue. It is perfectly structureless, and, when peeled off, has a remarkable tendency to curl up. Boiling, or the action of acids, does not render it opaque like they do the other layers of the cornea.* Very deKcate fibres pass obliquely inwards from it, and serve to connect it to the next layer. The third layer {cornea proper) consists of transparent fibrous tissue, upon which the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fibres are arranged in layers about sixty in number, between which are branched fusiform cells, communicating freely with each other. The fourth layer is again elastic, and resembles the second layer in structure, except in being somewhat thinner. The fifth layer consists of a layer of epithelial cells, resembling those which line serous membranes.f In its healthy state, the cornea con- tains no blood vessels; they run back in loops as soon as they reach its circumference. Its nerves, which are numerous, are de- rived from the ciliary nerves, and ramify in the transparent fibrous tissue. After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, we Choroid coat. , .-, . expose the choroid coatX—a white ring, consistmg of the ciliary ligament and ciliary muscle, which bounds its anterior parts; also the iris and ciliary processes, of which the outer cir- cumference is attached to this ring (fig. 134). The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, recog- * Dr. Jacob calls it ' the elastic cornea.'—Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 503. Its use, according to Dr, Jacob, is probably to preserve the correct curve of the cornea proper. t For a detailed investigation of the structure of the cornea, see Todd and Bowman, Physiological Anatomy. X So called, because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion, or external investment of the ovum.PISSECTION OF THE EYE; 560 nised by its dai'k-brown colour and great vuHcularity. Posteriorly there is a circular aperture in it for the passage of the optic nerve. In front, the choroid is attached to the ciliary ligament, under which it extends forwards, round the circumference of the crystal- line lens, in a series of plaited folds, called the 'ciliary pro- cesses.^ It is connected to the sclerotic by fine cellular tissue— the lamina fusca—through which the ciliary vessels and nerves pass forwards. Under the microscope the choroid is found to consist of three layers—an external, composed of arterial and venous ramifica- tions ; a middle, composed of capillaries, and an internal, com- posed of pigment cells. The outer layer consists of the branches of the blood vessels, the arteries being chiefly arranged on its inner, the veins on its outer surface. The veins are arranged with great regularity in drooping branches {vasa vorticosd), like a weeping willow (fig. 135), and converge to four nearly equi- distant trunks, which, after running backwards for a short dis- tance, perforate the sclerotica not far from the entrance of the optic nerve, and empty themselves into the ophthalmic vein. The arteries which ramify on the inner side of the veins per- forate the sclerotica near the optic nerve, and then divide and subdivide into a very minute network. Between the vessels are found a number of stellate pigment cells, which communicate with each other. This middle layer, formed by the minute subdivisions of the ciliary arteries, is termed, after the Dutch anatomist Euysch, 'tunica Ruyschiana.'' It consists of a very delicate capillary network, which extends forwards to the ciliary processes. The inner layer is the pigment-matter of the choroid. It is merely adventitious, for, if the choroid be washed in water or spirit, the colour is entirely removed, leaving the membrane of a greyish tint. In man this pigment is dark brown, but in most animals it is jet black. Under the microscope, it is found to consist of minute hexagonal nucleated cells, filled with pigment granules, which are most numerous towards the margins of the cells. On the choroid it exists only as a single layer, but on the iris and561 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. ciliary processes several layers may be demonstrated.* The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments is darkened. Albinos, in whom the choroid has little or no pigment, are, consequently, dazzled by daylight, and see better in the dusk.f Ciliary body These structiu-es are best seen when the globe has and pro- been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undis- turbed. They should be regarded as a continuation of the choroid, and are arranged as a black circle, about three lines broad, sur- rounding the lens. The posterior boundary of this ring is smooth and flat, and defined by a dentated line. The anterior part presents a number of longitudinal plaits or folds, from sixty to seventy in number, alternately long and short, and arranged in a radiated manner round the circumference of the lens. One of these is seen in the diagram, p. 558. The entire ring is called the ciliary body; and the folds of it in front, the ciliary processes. The processes are kept in place by being attached to the ciliary liga- ment: they fit into corresponding depressions in the vitreous humour, and their free ends project for a short distance into the posterior chamber. They consist of convolutions of minute arte- ries, and their dark colour arises from the pigment on their surface. Their use is unknown. CiUary The ciliary ligament (fig. 135) is a whitish grey ring, ligament. about the ^th of an inch broad, situated just beneath * Dalrymple speaks of a very delicate membrane (membrane of Brucli) as lining the inner surface of the choroid, for the purpose of keeping the dark pigment in its place. A similar membrane may be detected on the posterior surface of the iris • other^se the pigment there would be apt to be washed away by the aqueous humour ' t In many of the nocturnal carnivorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye presents a briUiant colour and metalUc lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time through the retina, it probably causes the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the well- known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals ; and the great breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the pupil. 0 ODISSECTION OF THE EYE. 562 the union of the sclerotica and the cornea. It serves as the con- necting medium between several structures—namely, the choroid, the iris, the ciliary processes, and the sclerotica. Between the sclerotic, the cornea, and the ciliary ligament, is placed a minute circular canal, termed the sinus circulaHs iridis or canal of Schlemm (fig. 134). It is probably a venous sinus, for it can always be injected from the arteries. Fig. 135. Sclerotic coat . . . Veins of tlieclioroid . Ciliiu-y nerves . . . Veins o£ the choroid . SCLKROTIC COAT EEMOVED TO SHOW THE CHOEOID, CILIARY LIGAMENT, AND NERVES. Ciliary muscle, This muscle consists of unstriped fibres, and is attached to the line of junction of the sclerotic and cornea; thence its fibres radiate backwards over the ciUary ligament, and are lost in the choroid behind the ciliary processes?* Its action is probably to accommodate the eye to ob- jects at various distances, by rendering the lens more or less convex. The iris is a movable curtain suspended m the clear fluid, which occupies the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris divides this space into two unequal parts, called the anterior and posterior chambers {^g. 134); these » Sir Philip Crampton has noticed that this muscle is well developed in birds. In them its fibres are of the striped kind, just as the circxUar fibres of the ins are.563 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil* Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye: for this purpose its inner circumference is capable of dilating and contracting accord- ing to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immovably connected to the ciliary ligament, the choroid, and the cornea. The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or pigment is contained in minute cells {pigment cells) lining the anterior and posterior surfaces of the iris. The posterior surface of the iris, called the uvea,] is covered by a thick layer of black pigment. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with alow mag- nifying power, a number of fine fibres are seen converging from all sides towards the pupil; many of them unite and form arches. When the pupil is contracted, these fibres are stretched, and vice versa. Whether they co-operate in producing the dilatation of the pupil is uncertain. The contractile power of the iris depends upon muscular fibres of the non-striped kind, arranged some in a radiating, others in a cii-cular manner. The radiating {dilatator) converge towards the pupil, where they blend with the circular fibres; the circular {sphincter) are aggregated on the posterior aspect of the pupillary margin, where they form a ring about -j^th of an inch in width.$ A considerable amoxmt of fibrous tissue is present in the iris, and consists of circular and radiating fibres ; the circular are found at the cii-cumference of the iris, the radiating converge towards the pupil. When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost » The size and shape of the pupil yaxj in different animals. In the bidlock, sheep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivoroiis quadi-upeds it is often a mere vertical sUt during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. t Strictly speaking, the term uvea was applied by the old anatomists to the choroid and iris collectively, which they very properly considered as one coat, and caUed the ' Xtrwu l,ayo€iSris: because ifs dark colour made it like the berry of the grape } The circular fibres of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and dis- cernible without difficulty.DISSECTION OF TJIK KYK. 564 entirely of blood vessels;* so much so that some anatomists con- sider it to be a kind of erectile tissue, and that its power of con tracting and expanding depends upon this property alone. Its blood vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior TeLds°'^ or long, and the anterior or short ciliary arteries. The posterior, 15 to 20 in number, perforate the sclerotica round the optic nerve, and then run on upon the choroid to the iris; the anterior proceed from the tendons of the recti (p. 182), and perforate the sclerotica round the margin of the cornea. It is from the enlargement of these latter vessels that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. The nerves of the iris, twelve or more in num- & tivcs. proceed from the lenticular ganglion, and from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair (p. 178). They perforate the back of the sclerotica like the arte- ries, and run along the choroid to the iris. Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal life, the Membrana p^pji ig closed by a delicate membrane, termed 'meni- brana 'pujpillaris.'' Its vessels are arranged m loops, which converge towards the centre of the pupil. It has been lately discovered that this membrane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, is identical with the anterior layer of the capsule of the crystalline lens.f To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must Eetina. removed while the eye is under water; this should be done with the forceps and scissors. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the delicate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye, the nerve becomes sud- denly constricted, and reduced to one-third of its diameter; at this point, too, it projects slightly into the interior of the globe, * In well-injected prepcarations one may see that the cliief blood vessels are dis- posed in two circles on the front siu-face of the iris, one near the outer, and the other near the inner circtimference. t See a paper by John Quekett in the Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London, vol. iii. p. 9.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 565 forming a little prominence to which the term ^ pcvpilla conica^ has been applied.* In front the retina ter- minates in a thin serrated border (ora ser- ^^S-136. rata), which ends a short distance behind the posterior margin of the ciliary processes. Precisely opposite the pupil there is a bright yellow spot, macula lutea, in the retina, about -^^th of an inch in diameter, fading off gradually at the edges, and having a black spot, fovea centralis, in the centre, ^i^tbries of the ebtina. This central spot was believed by its dis- canai of Petit (inflated). Zone of Ziun (exaggerated). coverer, Soemmering,! to be a perforation; but it is now ascertained to depend upon the absence of the yellow colour in the centre: so that the dark pigment of the choroid becomes conspicuous. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the promi- nence of the optic nerve. The use of this yellow spot is not understood.! Its elaborate "^^^^^^^g^ ^0 the naked eye the retina appears a organLtiou! simple, soft, semi-transparent membrane, yet, when examined with the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It varies in thickness from the J-^th to the gLth of an inch, and consists of four layers, named from without inwards, the columnar layer or membrana Jacobi, the granular layer, the nervous layer, and the vascular layer. The columnar layer or membrana Jacobi § is composed of minute cylindrical transparent rods arranged at right angles to the surface of the retina. Their outer extremities are imbedded to a greater or less depth in the dark pigment of the choroid, so that * This promiuence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light, t De foramine centrali, &c., retinae humanEe; in Comment. Soc. Getting, t 13. t In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye. § After it.s di..covert.r, Dr. Jacob of Dublin, who described it in the Philosophical Tran.saction.s, 1819.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 5G6 wlien viewed from without, the rods have the appearance of mosaic pavement.* Among the rods are intermingled numerous flask- shaped bodies, called cones: their outer extremities taper off towards the choroid, with which they are in contact, their inner broad ends join the fibres of Miiller. The rods are absent in the macula lutea. The granular layer consists of two horizontal collections of oval cells, separated by a variable amount of granular material. The nervous layer is composed of the terminations of the optic nerve fibres, and of branched nerve cells. The fibres of the optic nerve, consisting only of the axis cylinders, run forwards as a con- tin\ious layer, and terminate in the nerve cells. The fibres are absent on the yellow spot.f The vascular layer is formed by the ramifications of the ar- teria centralis retinse, which form a close network of blood vessels throughout the nervous substance for its nutrition. After a short maceration in water, the nervous substance can be brushed off with a camel's hair brush, and then, in an injected eye, the net- work formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The larger branches, however, are visible without injection; one of them runs round the free margin of the retina. The retina is separated from the vitreous humour by a perfectly transparent membrane, the memhrana limitans. At the yellow spot the retina has no rods, and over the fovea centralis it is desti- tute of the granular layer and the nerve fibres. The aqu.eous humour consists of a few drops of alka- Aqueous ^lear watery fluid, which fills up the space between humour. ^^^^^^ crystalline lens. The iris floats freely in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size— an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is miich the smaUer of the two : indeed, the iris is so close to the lens that they are sepa- rated by a mere film of fluid. This accounts for the frequent * See Hannover, Eeclierches Microscop. sur le Systfeme ncrveux, 1844. t H Muller has described a number of radiating fibrc.i, which are connected ex- - tcrnally with the rods and cones, and after passing through the whole thickness of the retina, end in triangular expansions which rest on the mombrana liraitans.5G7 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. adhesions wliich are apt to take place, during inflammation, between the pupil and the capsule of the crystalline. Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane, ■which they call the membrane of the aqueous humour. A deli- cate layer of epithelium exists on the posterior surface of the cornea, but nothing like a continuous serous membrane can be demonstrated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extravasated blood; in the other, by the rapid re-appearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. The vitreous humour is a transparent, ffelatinous- Vitreous humour and looking substance, which fills up nearly four-fifths of hyaloid ^\^q interior of the globe (p. 558). It consists of a membrane. n • i • i • n i r watery nmd contamed m the meshes of a cellular struc- ture, called the 'hyaloid membrane,'' from its perfect translu- cency: the cells communicate freely with each other; for, if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains off. The membrane itself is so delicate, that it is difficult to obtain it sepa- rately ; but it may be rendered slightly opaque by strong spirit or diluted acids. It is of somewhat firmer consistence on the surface, so that it answers the purpose of a capsule for the vitreous humour, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed.* In the foetus, a branch of the retinal artery runs through the centre of the vitreous humour, and ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. It is lodged in a tubular canal in the hyaloid membrane, termed the hyaloid canal; but this entirely disappears in the adult. The vitreous humour presents in front a deep depression, in * The cells of the vitreous humour may sometimes be demonstrated by freezing the eye and then diyiding it. The figure and size of the cells are shown by the por- tions of ice which they contain. Again, by macerating the eye in chromic acid, it is found that the vitreous humour is intersected by 180 delicate partitions, disposed like those in the pulp of an orange—with this difference, however, that the partitions do not quite reach the centre, but leave a cylindrical space in the axis of the humoui-. Up this space the central artery runs in the foetus.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 568 Zone of wliicli the crystalline lens is imbedded; around this Ziuu. depression is the ' zo7ie of Zinn.'* This zone is best exposed by removing the ciliary body. It then appears like a dark disk, and extends from the front margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens: its surface is marked by prominent ridges which correspond with the intervals between the ciliary processes (fig. 136). It is supposed to form the suspensory liga- ment for maintaining the lens in its proper position. ^ ^ If the transparent membrane between the zone of Petit. ° Z'mn and the margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens, and, when inflated, resembles a circle of small glass beads: this is the canal of Petit, or 'canal godronne^ (fig. 136, p. 565). How this canal is formed, whether by the separation of the hyaloid mem- brane into two layers or not, and what is its use, are questions not satisfactorily determined. The crystalline lens (fig. 134) is a perfectly trans- Crystai.- parent solid body, situated immediately behind the LINE LENS. ^ pupil, and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour. It is convex on both surfaces, but more so behind. Its shape and consistence vary at different periods of life. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. In the adult, its trans- verse diameter is about three-eighths of an inch; its antero- posterior, one-fifth of an inch. The lens is surrounded by a capsule equally transparent as it- self. The capsule is composed of tissue exactly similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is four times thicker in front than behind, as might be expected, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and itscapsule.f * Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at G-ottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of ' Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani.' t The vessels of the capsule of tlie lens are derived &om the arteria centralis retinae, and, in mammalia, can only be injected in the foetal state. In the reptilia, however, the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. According to Quekelt,DISSECTION or TIIH EAU. 569 The lens protrudes directly the capsule is sufficiently opened. The lens is nourished by means of an extremely delicate layer of nucle- ated cells on its surface, which absorb nourishment from the cap- sule. Some anatomists speak of a layer of fluid (liqvior Morrjagni) as existing between the lens and its capsule; but no such fluid can be detected during life, and if there be any after death, it is, in all prohabilit}'-, imbibed by the capsule from the aq\ieous humour. The minute structui-e of the lens is very remarkable. fet"ruGtwe gelatinous in consistence outside, but grows gradu- ally denser towards the centre. After immersion in nitric acid, alcohol, or boiling water, it becomes hard and opaque. It may then be seen that it is divided into three equal parts, by three lines which radiate from the centre to within one-third of the circumference. Each of these portions is composed of hun- dreds of concentric layers, arranged one within the other, like the coats of an onion. If any single layer be examined with the microscope, we find that it is made up of fibres about yoVo^^ of inch in thickness, and connected together by finely serrated edges. This beautiful dovetaihng of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster; and, to see it in perfection, one ought to take the lens of the common cod-fish. The use of the lens is to bring the rays of light to a focus upon the retina. DISSECTION OF THE OUGcA^ OF HEARING. The parts constituting the organ of hearing should be examined in the following order:—!. The outer cartilage or pinna; 2. The meatus auditorius externus; which leads to, 3. The tympanum or middle ear; and, 4. The labyrinth or internal ear, comprising the vestibule, cochlea, and semicircular canals. the membrana pupillaris of authors is nothing more than the anterior Layer of the capsule. In taking the eye to pieces, it is quite a matter of accident wliether the membrane adhere to the iris, or remain in its proper place in front of the lens. See Queketfs paper in the ' Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London,' vol iiiDISRECTIOX OP THE EAU. 570 p.^^^ The pinna is irregularly oval, and has on its external aspect numerous eminences and hollows, which have received the following names :—The outer folded border is called the helix; the ridge within it, the anti-helix; between these is a curved groove called the fossa of the helix. The anti-helix bifur- cates towards the front, and bounds the fossa of the anti-lielix. The conical eminence in front of the meatus is termed the tragus, on which hair generally grows. Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is the anti-tragus. The lobule is the soft pendulous part, and consists of fat and fibrous tissue. The deep hollow which collects the sonorous vibrations, and directs them into the external meatus, is termed the concha. The pinna is formed of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is attached by an anterior ligament to the root of the zygoma, and by a posterior to the mastoid process. The muscles which move the cartilage of the ear as Muscles of ^ Yiole, have been described (p. 2). Other small the pmna. ' \r / muscles extend from one part of the cartilage to another; but they are so indistinct, that, unless the subject be very muscular, it is difficult to make them out. The following six are usually described—four on the front of the pinna, and two behind it:— a. The musculus major helicis runs vertically along the front margin of the pinna. b. The musculus minor helicis lies over that part of the helix which comes up from the bottom of the concha. c. The musculus tragicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. d. The musculus anti-tragicus proceeds transversely from the anti-tragus to the lower part of the anti-helix. e. The musculus transversus is on the back of the pinna; it passes from the back of the concha to the helix. /. The musculus obliquus extends vertically from the cranial aspect of the concha to the convexity below it. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auricu- lar, and from the auricular branches of the temporal and occipital.571 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The nerves are furnished by the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, the tempore- auricular branch of the inferior max- illary, the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and Arnold's nerve from the pneumogastric. Meatus "^^^^ passage leads down to the membrana tympani, auditorius or drum of the ear. It is about an inch and a quarter ejcternus. length; its external opening is broadest in its verti- cal direction; its termination is broadest in its transverse. The canal inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.* It is not throughout of the same calibre, the narrowest part being about the middle; hence the difficulty of extracting foreign bodies which have passed to the bottom of the canal. It is formed partly by a tubular continuation of the concha, partly by an osseous canal in tlie temporal bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch long, and the osseous portion three-fourths of an inch. The skin and the cuticle are continued down the passage, and becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the mem- brana tympani. The outer portion is furnished with hairs and ceruminous glands, of which the peculiar bitter secretion is for the purpose of keeping the passage moist, and preventing insects from lodging in it. Its arteries are derived from the posterior auricidar, internal maxillary, and temporal; its nerve, from the tempore- auricular. The tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and lined by mucous membrane. It is filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that the atmospheric pressure is equal on both sides of the membrana tympani. It contains a chain of small bones, of which the use is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the internal parts of the ear. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrana tympani, the other td the fenestra ovalis. The antero-posterior ♦ To obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of the meatus, sections should be made through it in different directions, or a cast of it taken in common plaster.DISSECTION OP THE EAll. 572 diameter of the tympanum is rather less than half an inch, its vertical and transverse diameter about a quarter of an inch. Tlie cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an external, an internal, an anterior, and a posterior wall. Its roof and jioor are formed by thin plates of bone. Its external wall is formed by the membrana tympani, and partly by bone; the latter is pierced by the fissura Glasseri, and the canal for the exit of the chorda tympani nerve. The internal wall presents the following objects, beginning from above: aridge indicating the line of the aqueductus Fallopii; the 'fenestra ovalis,'' which leads into the vestibule of the internal ear, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane, to which is attached the base of the stapes. Below the fenestra ovalis is a bony prominence, the 'promontory;^ it is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea, and is marked by grooves, in which lie the branches of the tympanic plexus of nerves. Still lower is the ^fenestra rotunda;' it leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by membrane. Immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, is a small conical eminence, named the 'pyramid;^ in the summit of which is a minute aperture, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. The posterior wall presents a large opening which leads into the mastoid cells, and conveys air into them from the tympanum. The anterior wall leads into the ^Eustachian tube,'' and the ' canal for the tensor tympani,'' which are separated from each other by a bony septum, the 'processus cochleariformis.' Lastly, a nerve called the chorda tympani (a branch of the portio dura) runs across it. The membrana tympani completely closes the bottom Membrana q£ ^.-^^ meatus auditorius. It is nearly circular, and its tympani. ... circumference is set m a bony groove, so that it as stretched somewhat like the parchment of a drum on the outer wall of the tympanum. Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above downwards, forming, with the lower part of the meatus, an angle of 45° : it is slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and firmly xtnited to the handle of the small bone called the ' malleus.' The structure of the membrane573 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. is essentially fibrous; some of the fibres radiate from the centre, others are circular. Its inner surface is lined by mucous mem- brane ; its outer surface is covered by an extremely thin layer of the true shin. This accounts for the great sensibility of the membrane, and its vascularity when inflamed. For a complete account of the Eustachian tube see tube'^*^^"^'^ p. 159. It proceeds from the anterior part of the tym- panum downwards and forwards to the pharynx. The four small bones in the tympanum are named, bwies^"^*' after their fancied resemblance to certain implements, tlie malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and stapes. They are articulated to each other by perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z. Their x\se is to transmit the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained in the internal ear. But they have another use, which would be incom- patible with a single bone—namely, to permit the tightening and relaxation of the membrana tympani, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. The handle of the malleus is nearly vertical, and attached along its whole length to the upper half of the membrana tympani. The long process (processus gracilis) projects at right angles from the body of the bone, runs into the Glasserian fissure, and receives the insertion of the laxator tympani. The short process receives the insertion of the tensor tympani. The incus, or anvil bone, is shaped like a bicuspid molar tooth with unequal fangs. Its broad part articulates with the malleus; • its long process articulates with the stapes, or stirrup bone, through the OS orbiculare; its short process is directed backwards, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes is horizontal, and its base is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. The stapedius muscle is inserted into its neck. These muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, tighten or574 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Muscles of ^^^^^ the membrane of tlie tympanum. The ' tensor THE TTMPA- tym.pani' runs in the canal above and parallel to the Eustachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the fore part of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the root of the handle of the malleus. Its nerve comes from the otic ganglion. Its action is to draw the membrana tympani inwards, and thus render it tense. The ' laxator tympani' arises from the spine of the sphenoid, and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. It is supplied by a branch from the facial nerve. Its action is to relax the mem- brana tympani. The 'stapedius' arises from a tube in the pyramid,* and its tendon is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its nerve is derived from the facial. Its precise use is not thoroughly understood. A branch of the portic dura (chorda tympani) enters ^pani tympanum through a foramen at the base of the pyramid; it then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus (see p. 195), and leaves the tympanum through a canal {canal of Huguier), which runs close to the Glasserian fissure. The tympanum is supplied with blood, 1, by the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which runs in through the fissura Grlasseri; 2, by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular ; 3, by small branches which enter with the Eustachian tube; 4, by branches from the internal carotid artery; and, 5, by the petrosal branch of the arteria meningea media. This, in consequence of its complexity, is appropri- Intebnal ately termed *the labyrinth.' It consists of cavities EAR. excavated in the most compact part of the temporal bone. These cavities are divided into three—a middle one, called ' the vestibule,' as being a centre in which all communicate with each other; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a * There is a little sheath, lined by sj'novial meniLrane to facilitate the play of the tendon in the pyramid.575 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. snail's shell, the cochlea; and a posterior, consisting of three semi- circular canals. These cavities are filled with a clear fluid, called the endo-ljmph, and contain a membranous expansion (the membranous labyrinth), upon which the filaments of the auditory nerve are expanded. ^.^ ^ The vestibule, or central chamber, communicates in front with the cochlea, through the scala cochleas; behind, with the semicircular canals; on the outside with the tympanum, through the fenestra ovalis; on the inside is a shallow depression, the fovea hemi-spherica, through which are transmitted the branches of the auditory nerve. In the roof is an oval depres- sion—the fovea hemi-elliptica. In some subjects there is the opening of a small canal, termed the ' aquedtcctus vestibuli: It leads to the posterior surface of the temporal bone, and transmits a small vein. The semicircular canals, three in number, are situ- Snair*''^'''' ^^^^ ^^0^^ rather behind the vestibule. Each canal is about the J^th of an inch in diameter, and forms frds of a circle. They open at each extremity into the vestibule: therefore, there should be six apertures for them; but there are only five, since one of the apertures is common to the extremity of two canals. The canals are not precisely of equal diameter throughout; each presents at one end a dilatation termed the ' ampulla.' This dilatation corresponds to a similar dilatation of the membranous sac upon which the auditory nerve expands. Each canal differs in its direction : they are named, accordingly, superior, posterior, and external. The superior s. c! is also the most anterior of the three: its direction is vertical, and runs across the petrous bone: the ampulla is at the outer ex- tremity. Its non-ampullated extremity opens by a common orifice with the posterior s. c. The posterior s. c. is also vertical, runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and, con- sequently, at right angles to the preceding: the ampulla is at the lower end. The external s. c. is horizontal in position with the convexity of the arch directed backwards: the ampulla is at tlie outer end.576 DISSECTION OV THE EAR. ^ J J The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear: it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed so that the base of the shell corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius intcrnus, while the apex is directed forwards and outwards. It consists of the spiral convolu- tions of two parallel and gradually tapering tubes, which wind round a central pillar, called the ' modiolus.^ The partition by which the tubes are separated is termed the ' lamina sjAraiis.^ In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but, in the recent state, it is completed by a membrane. At the apex of the cochlea [helicotrevia) the partition is altogether absent, so that here the tubes communicate with each other. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The upper one opens into the vestibule, and is thei'efore called the vestibular scale; the lower one leads to the membrane which closes the fora- men rotundum of the tympanum, and is termed the tympanic scale. If unwound, they would be about 1^ inch long. Each makes two turns and a half round the central pillar, from left to right in the right ear, and vice versa in the left. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the ' modiolus.' It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers towards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, for the purpose of transmitting the filaments of the auditory nerve. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex, and transmits a small artery, the ' arteria centralis modioli.^ The lamina spiralis—the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea—is made up, on the inner half, of bone, on the outer half, of membrane. The bony part has a number of minute canals in it, which come off at right angles from the modi- olus. They are for the lodgment of the filaments of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part, which is the most important element of the cochlea, since it receives the undulations of the fluid in the interior.* * There is an extremely delicate little muscle, termed tlio ' cochlearis,' for the purpose of tiglitr-ning or relaxing, according to circumstances, the membranous partDISSECTION OF THE EAK. The osseous labyrinth is lined throughout by a delicate fibro- serous membrane, which secretes the fluid called the ' peri-lymph,' or ' liquor Cctunnii.' If the bony labyrinth just now described be properly kbyrinth°'^^ Understood, there is no diffictilty in comprehending the membranous labyrinth in its interior—a structure in- tended to support the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve, and to expose them to the undulations of the fluid in the internal ear. The membranous labyrinth is a sac, situated partly in the vestibule, partly in the semicircular canals—that situated in the vestibule is termed the vestibular 'portion; that in the bony canals, the membranous semicircular canals. The semicircular canals present the same dilatations or ampullae at one end, and just at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony one. The sac in the vestibule is constricted, so as to appear like two sacs of unequal size. The larger of the two, generally called the utricle, is lodged in the fovea hemi-elliptica, and communicates with the semicircular canals. The smaller, called the saccule, lies in the fovea hemi-spherica, and communicates with the vestibular scale of the cochlea. Both sacs are filled with the endo-lymph, besides which, each contains a minute quantity of calcareous matter, called by Breschet the otoliths. These masses of cretace- ous substance seem to be suspended in the fluid contained in the sacs by the intermedium of a number of nerve filaments proceed- ing from the auditory nerve.* The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. There is the proper fluid in the interior, termed the ' endo-lymph,' of the lamina spiralis. It is placed along the outer circumference of the membrane, and, in fact, forms an integral part of it. Its fibres are of the non-striped kind, like the ciliary muscle of the eye. See Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. Part iii. p. 79. * From the universal presence of these chalky bodies in the labyrinth of all mammalia, and from their much greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there 8 little reason to doubt that they perform some office of great importance in the physiology of hearing. P PDISSECTION OF THE EAK. 678 and the thin layer of fluid, the ' peri-lymph/ between it and the bone. Distribution "^^^ auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the seventh of the audi- pair, passes down the meatus auditorius intemus, and, tory nerve. bottom of it, divides into an anterior and a pos- terior branch: a branch for the cochlea, and a branch for the vestibule. These nerves then break up into numerovis fasciculi, which pass through the foramina at the bottom of the meatus into the osseous labyrinth. Here the filaments are grouped into six bundles, corresponding to the parts which they supply—namely, two for the vestibular sac, one for each of the ampullae of the semicircular canals, and one for the cochlea. The cochlear nerve divides into filaments, which run through the canals of the modiolus, and then along those of the lamina spiralis, in order to terminate upon the membranous part of this lamina. The precise manner in which the filaments terminate is still dubious : according to Breschet,* they communicate and form a series of minute arches. Eespecting the other nerves, little more need be said than that their ultimate ramifications are lost upon the vestibular sac, and upon the ampullse of the semicircular canals : some of them, how- ever, pass into the sac, and come into contact with the otoconies, or ear-dust, in its interior. Blood vessels "^^^ internal auditory artery—a branch of the basilar of tlie laby- —runs with the auditory nerve to the bottom of the rmth. meatus, and divides into branches corresponding with the divisions of the nerve. Its ultimate ramifications terminate, in the form of a fine network, on the membranous labyrinth, and on the spiral lamina of the cochlea. The auditory vein pours its blood into the superior petrosal sinus. * Recberclies Anat. et Phys. sur I'Grgane de rOuie, &c. (M^m. de I'Acad. de Med. t. V. fasc. iii. 1836.)DISSECTION OF THE MAMMAIiY GLAND. 579 DISSEJTION OP THE MAMMAEY GLAND. The form, size, position, and other external characters of the mammary gland, are sufficiently obvious. The longest diameter of the gland is in a direction upwards and outwards towards the axilla; its thickest part is at the centre; and the fullness and roundness of the gland depend upon the quantity of fat which is situated about it and between its lobes. Its deep surface is flattened in adaptation to the pectoral muscle, to which it is loosely connected by an abundance of areolar tissue. It is inclosed by a fascia which not only supports it as a whole, but penetrates into its interior, so as to form a framework for its several lobes; hence it is that, in cases of mammary abscess, the matter is apt to be circumscribed, not diffused. The nipple {mammilla) projects a little below the centre; it is surrounded by a coloured circle termed the ' areola:' this circle is of a rose-pink colour in virgins, but, in those who have borne children, of a dark brown. It begins to enlarge and grow darker about the second or third month of pregnancy, and these changes continue till parturition. The areola is also abundantly provided with papillae, and with subcutaneous sebaceous glands, for the purpose of lubricating the surface during lactation. Structure. ^'^^^^ ^^^^^^ consists of distinct lobes held together by firm connective tissue, and provided with separate lactiferous ducts. Each lobe divides and subdivides into lobules, and the duct branches out accordingly.* Traced to their origin^ we find that the ducts commence in clusters of minute cells, and that the blood vessels ramify upon these cells in rich profusion; altogether, then, a single lobe might be compared to a bunch of grapes, of which the stalk represents the main duct. The main ducts {galadophorous ducts) from the several lobes, from fifteen * It is observed, in some cases, that one or more lobules run off to a considerable distance from the mam body of the gland, and lie imbedded in the subcutaneous tissue One should remember this when it is necessary to remove the entire gland. P p 2580 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. to twenty in number, converge towards the nipple, and, just before they reach 'it, become dilated into small sacs or reservoirs two or three lines wide; after this they run up to the apex of the nipple, and terminate in separate orifices. The arteries of the gland are derived from the long thoracic and internal mammary: the nerves come from the anter or and lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. DISSECTION OF THE SCROTUM AND TESTIS. The scrotum is composed of six tunics:—1. The thrs^Xi 2- dartos; 3. A layer ot cellular tissue; 4. The spermatic fascia derived from the ex- ternal abdominal ring; 5. The cremaster, or suspensory muscle; 6. The infundibuliform fascia derived from the internal ring. Each of these coverings cannot be demonstrated under ordinary circumstances, because they are so blended together; but they can be shown in the case of old and large herniae when in a state of hypertrophy. The dartos is a thin layer consisting: of muscular Dartos fibres of the non-striped kind, like those of the bladder and intestines. Its use is to corrugate the loose and extensible skin of the scrotum, and in a measure to support and brace the testicle. Beneath the dartos is a large quantity of loose eel- Layer of ^ T P e cellular lular tissue, remarkable for the total absence of fat. tissue. Together with the dartos, it forms a vertical partition between the testicles, termed ' septum scrotV It is not a complete partition, since air or fluid will pass from one side to the other. The great abundance and looseness of this tissue explains the enormous swelling of the scrotum in cases of anasarca, and in cases where the urine is effused into it in consequence of rupture or ulceration of the urethra. The spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and infundibuliform fascia have been described (pp. 318, 321).581 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. The testicle is a gland of an oval shape, with flattened Testis. ^ides, suspended obliquely, so that the upper end points forwards and outwards, the lower end in the reverse direction. The left is generally a little the lower of the two. The ordinary weight of each gland is about six drachms; but few organs present greater variations in size and weight, even in men of the same Fig. 137. "1. Mediastinum testis contain- ing the rete testis. 2, 2. TrabecuU. 3, One of the lobules. 4, 4. Vas recta. 3i forming the ior' of the epi- r, or lower end lis. DIAGRAM OF THE TESTICLE. age; generally speaking, the left is the larger. Along the pos- Epidid is ^^^^^^ P^^'^ gland is placed a long narrow body, termed the 'epididymis:' this is not a part of the testicle, but an appendage to it, formed by the convolutions of its long excretory duct. Its upper larger end is called the 'globus major,' and is connected to the testicle by the efferent ducts; the lower end, 'globus minor,' is only connected to the testicle by fibrous tissue. Proper CO- '^^^ Coverings of the testicle, are—1, a serous mem- veringsof brane, called the 'tunica vaginalis,' to facilitate its movements; 2, a strong fibroiTs membrane, called the ' tunica albuginea,' to support and form a case for the glandular structure within ; 3, a delicate stratum of minute blood vessels,582 DISSECTION OP THE TESTIS. which some anatomists have described as a distinct coat, under the name of tunica vasculosa. pletely covers the testicle, except behind, where the vessels and duct are placed (fig. 138); and that it also covers part of the outer side of the epididymis. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little fluid. An excess of this fluid gives rise to the disease termed 'hydrocele.' The tunica vaginalis was originally derived from the perito- neum. In some subjects it still communicates with that cavity by a narrow neck, and is therefore liable to become the sac of a hernia (see diagram, p. 324). Such hernise are termed congenital —a bad name, since they do not, as a matter of course, take place at birth, but often in adult age. Sometimes the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid only; or the communication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such an one, when distended by fluid, gives rise to hydi-ocele of the cord. invests the testicle, but not the epididymis. At the posterior part of the gland it penetrates into its substance for a short distance, and forms an incomplete vertical septum, termed, after the anato- mist who first described it, ' corpus EighmoH,^ and subsequently, by Sir A. Cooper, the 'mediastinum testis' (fig. 138). This sep- tum transmits the blood vessels of the gland, and contains, also, the network of seminal ducts, called the rete testis, shown in diagram 137. From the medias:inum testis are given off in all directions a number of slender fibrous cords, which traverse the interior of Timica albuginea. This tunic is a dense, inelastic membrane, composed of fibrous tissue, interlacing in every direction, analo- gous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely583 DISSiSCTlON OF THE TESTIS. Fig. 138. Tunica vasciilosa. the gland, and are attached to the inside of the tunica albuginea. They serve to maintain the general shape of the testicle, to support the numerous lobules of which its glandular substance is composed, and to convey the blood vessels into it. These tie-beams {trabeculce testis), as well as the mediastinum from which they proceed, are readily seen on making a transverse section through the gland (fig. 138). Eespecting the so-called tunica vasculosa, nothing more need be said than that it consists of a multitude of fine blood vessels, formed by the ramifications of the spermatic artery, and held together by delicate cellular tissue. It lines the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and gives off vessels which run with the fibrous cords into the interior of the gland. When the testicle is cut into, its interior looks soft and pulpy, and of a reddish- grey colour. It consists of an innume- rable multitude of minute convoluted tubes (tubuli seminiferi). For eco- nomy of space they are arranged in lobules, between four and five hundred * in number, of various sizes, and contained in the compartments formed by the fibrous cords proceeding from the mediastinum testis. Only a few of these lobules are shown in diagram 138. Though disposed in lobules, still they communicate with each other, and thus form one vast network of tubes. The secretion from them is carried oflf by some forty or fifty straight vessels {vasa recta), which penetrate the mediastinum testis, and there form a plexus of seminal tubes, termed the ' rete testis.' This lies Grlandular structure. TRANSVEESE SECTION THROUGH THE TESTICLE. (Diagrammatic.) 1. Spermatic artery. 2. Vaa deferens. 3. Deferential artery. 4. Epididymis. 5. Mediastinnm testis. 6. 6. Cavity of tunica vaginalis. (The dots sliow the reflections of the tuiuca vaginalis.) * This estimate is according to Krause, Miiller's Arcbiv, fiir Anat. 1837.584 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the rete the secretion is carried away to the large end of the epididymis by fifteen or twenty tubes, termed, ' vasa effereniia.'' These, after forming a vast number of coils, termed ' coni vaaculosi,'' which collectively constitute the globus major of the epididymis, ulti- mately terminate, one after the other, in a single duct, the com- mencement of the vas deferens. Commencing, then, in the globus major of the epididymis, the vas deferens descends, making a series of extremely tortuous coils, which alone form the globus minor.* From the lower part of the globus minor the vas deferens ascends, joins the other component parts of the spermatic cord, passes through the inguinal canal, winds round the back part of the bladder, and empties itself into the prostatic part of the urethra. The length of the vas deferens was estimated by Monro at upwards of thirty feet. The same anatomist calculated that the semen, before it arrived at the vas deferens, had to traverse a tube forty-two feet in length. The spermatic cord is composed of the spermatic cord™^*^'" vessels, nerves, and absorbents, of the vas deferens, with the little deferential artery (a branch of the superior vesical), of the cremaster muscle and the cremasteric artery. Its coverings have been described with the anatomy of the parts of hernia, p. 323. The course of the spermatic arteries and veins have been de- scribed in the dissection of the Abdomen, p. 352. The artery is remarkably tortuous as it descends along the cord; it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a multitude of fine ramifications, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testicle at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous, and form a plexus termed 'pampiniform.'' It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occurrence of ' variocele.' But it is certain that the larger veins do contain valves. * A little blind duct, called vasculum abcrrans, is sometimes connected eitlier to the epididymis or the yas deferens.DISSECTION OP THE TESTIS. 585 The absorbents of the testicle terminate in the lumbar glands; hence these glands become affected in malignant disease of the testicles. Tlie nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They run down from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries (p. 356). This accounts for the stomach and intestines sympa- thising so readily with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar: thTtestides immediately below the kidneys; and it is loosely. attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the ' mesorc/iium,^ along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland there proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum, a contractile cord termed the ' gubemaculum testis.''* By the gradual contraction of this, the organ is brought into the scrotum. It begins to slide down from the loins about the fifth month, reaches the ring abou.t the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but, as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal lining of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdo- men, and in the lower animals continues to do so through life.f But in the human subject the canal of communication soon begins to close. It begins to close at the top first, and the closure is generally complete in a child born at its full time.J The final * Mr. Ciirling considers the gubernaculum testis to be a muscular cord. See liis Observations on tbe Structure of the Gubernaculum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Fcetus: Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841. t According to Professor Owen, the African orang outan (Simia troglodytes) is the only exception to this rule. In this animal it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a ligamentum teres in the hip-joint. \ According to Camper, the canal on the right side is nearly always open at birth, whereas that on the left is nearly always closed. This fact explains the greater frequency of hernia on the right side in children under one year old. Tlius out of586 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. purpose of this is to provide against the occurrence of ruptures, to which man, from his erect attitude, is so much more exposed than animals. At the end of the first month after birth, the canal is entirely obliterated from the abdominal ring to the testis. Some- times, however, this obliteration fails to take place, or is only partial; hence may arise congenital hernia, or hydrocele. The possible existence of a communication between the tunica vagi- nalis and the peritoneal cavity of the abdomen, is one of the reasons why hydroceles in infants are not treated by stimulating injections. 3,014 cases of riglit and left inguinal hernia, seen at the City of London Truss Society 2,269 occurred on the right side, and 745 on the left; or in the proportion of 3 to 1. '587 INDEX. ABD Abdomen, dissection of, 308 parts exposed on opening, 325 Abdominal muscles, 311 viscera, position of, 326 Absorbent Glands axillary, 224 bronchial, 130 cervical, deep, 32 superficial, 16 concatenatse, 32 of elbow, 236 femoral, 439 inguinal, deep, 440 superficial, 439 intercostal, 129 lumbar, 350 mammary, 104 mediastinal, 104 pelvic, 350 pharyngeal, 154 popliteal, 482 submaxillary, 35 thyroid, 32 Achillis, tendo, 487 Albinos, no pigment in, 561 Ampullae of semicircular canals, 575 Annulus ovalis, 134 Antrum pylori, 432 Aorta, arch of, 108 ■ abdominal, 351 thoracic, 121 Aponeuroses of abdominal muscles, 311 pharyngeal, 154 temporal, 85 scalp, of, 2 vertebral, 201, 271 Appendices epiploicse, 436 Appendix vermiformis, 327 ART Arachnoid membrane of brain, 511 of cord, 545 fluid, 512 spaces, 512 of cord, 545 Arbor vitse of uterus, 417 of cerebellum, 543 Arciform fibres of medulla, 519 Aqueductus Fallopii, 79 Sylvii, 540 vestibuU, 575 Arantii corpus, 137 Arch, crural, 212 deep crural, 449 Arm, dissection of, 217 Aeteeies alar thoracic, 225 anastomotica magna, of arm, 241 femoris, 464 angular, 76 aorta, arch of, 108 abdominal, 351 thoracic, 121 articular, of popliteal, 489 ascending cervical, 58 palatine, 38 pharyngeal, 48 auditory, 578 auricular anterior, 83 posterior, 48 axillary, 226 axis, cseliac, 337 thoracic, 221 thyroid, 68 azygos of popliteal, 489 basilar, 614 brachial, 238 brachio-cephalic, 110 bronchial, 130, 160588 INDEX. ART Arteries {continued) bicipital, 230 buccal, 89 of biilb of \irethra, 374 capsular, 351 common carotid, 27 right, 27 loft, 28 carotid, left, 110 external, 45 ° internal, 95 carpal, anterior, 250, 252 posterior, 250, 252 centralis retinae, 184, 566 modioli, 576 cerebellar, inferior, 515 superior, 515 anterior, 515 . cerebral, anterior, 513 middle, 613 posterior, 515 ceryicalis ascendens, 58 profunda, 60 ciliary, anterior, 184 posterior, 184 circle of Willis, 515 eircTimflex, anterior, 229 posterior, 228 internal, 461 external, 462 circumflexa ilii, deep, 354 superficial, 310 choroid, anterior, 513 posterior, 515 cseliac axis, 337 colic-ilio, 342 middle, 342 right, 342 left, 343 comes nervi iscliiatici, 478 mediani, 254 phrenici, 103 communicating anterior, 513 posterior, 613 coronary of the heart, 140 inferior, 76 superior, 76 coronaria ventriculi, 337 cremasteric, 322 crico-thyroid, 46 of erus penis, 374 cystic, 338 deep cervical, 60 deferential, 388 AUT Arteries {continued) dental, inferior, 89 superior, 89 descending palatine, 89 digital of hand, 259 foot, 497 dorsal of foot, 471 dorsalis hallucis, 471 dorsales linguse, 44 dorsal of penis, 375 dorsalis scapulae, 228, 280 ethmoidal, 185 epigastric, deep, 322 superficial, 309 external carotid, 45 haemorrhoidal, 365 mammary, 227 maxillary, 38, 75 circumflex, 462 iliac, 354 facial, 38, 75 femoral, 459 frontal, 185 gastro-epiploicadextra, 337 sinistra, 339 glutaeal, 388, 476 helicine, 403 haemorrhoidal, superior, 382 middle, 382 inferior, 365 external, 365 hepatic, 337 hyoid, 44, 46 iliac, common, 353 external, 354 internal, 387 ilio-lumbar, 388 inferior dental, 89 mesenteric, 342 palatine, 38 infra-orbital, 82, 89 innominate, 110 intercostal aortic, 127 anterior, 103 perforating of, 103 intercosto-phrenic, 103 intercostal, superior, 60 intemai mammai'y, 59 maxillary, 87 carotid, 95 iliac, 387 circumflex, 461 pudic, 374, 389, 479 interosseous, common. 252INDEX. 589 ART Aeteeies (cmitinued) interosseous, anterior, 254 dorsal, of carpus, 290 palmar, 267 posterior, 289 recun-ent, 289 iscliiatic, 389, 479 labial, inferior, 76 lachrymal, 184 lateral, of the nose, 76 lateral sacral, 388 lingual, 44 lumbar, 352 magna pollicis, 267 malleolar, 471 mammary, internal, 59, 103 external, 227 masseteric, 89 maxillary, internal, 87 external, 38, 75 mediastinal, 103 medullary, of femur, 463 of humerus, 241 of tibia, 493 meningeal, 4 v meningea media, 88 parva, 89 meningeal, posterior, 515 mental, 82 mesenteric, inferior, 342 superior, 341 metatarsal, 471 middle sacral, 390 nasal, 185 nasal, from internal maxillary, 90 obturator, 388, 465 abnormal course, 451 occipital, 47 oesophageal, 130 ophthalmic, 184 OTarian, 352 palatine, ascending, 94 descending, 89 palmar arch, deep, 258 superficial, 257 interosseous, 267 palmar, perforating, 267 palmaris profunda, 267 palpebral, 185 pancreatico-duodenalis, 337 pancreaticEE parvse, 339 magna, 339 perforating, of plantar, 497 profunda, 463 Aeteeies {continued) perforating, of hand, 367 peroneal, 492 pharyngeal, ascending, 48, 96 phrenic, 351 plantar, external, 496 internal, 496 pollicis magna, 267 popliteal, 488 posterior auricular, 48 circumflex, 277 interosseous, 289 scapular, 69, 274 tibial, 492 princeps cervicis, 48, 209 profunda femoris, 461 superior, 239, 281 inferior, 241 perforating, of, 463 pterygoid, 89 pterygo-palatine, 90 pubic branch of epigastric, 322 obturator, 388 pudic, 374, 389, 479 deep external, 440 siiperficial, 309 pulmonary, 130 pyloric, 337 radial, 249, 290 recurrent, 250 radialis indicis, 267 ranine, 44 renal, 352 sacra media, 353, 390 lateralis, 388 septum nasi, artery of, 76 scapular, posterior, 59 sigmoidea, 343 spermatic, 352 in female, 352 spinal, anterior, 515 posterior, 515 splenic, 338 spheno-palatine, 90 sterno-mastoid, 46, 47 stylo-mastoid, 48 subclavian, 51 right, 51 left, 54, 111 sublingual, 44 submental, 38 siibscapular, anterior, branch, Z27 posterior, branch, 228 superficialis colli, 59, 274590 INDEX. ART Abtehies {contimwd) superficial, of axilla, 223 superficial epigastric, 440 superficialis perinei, 366 V0l£E, 250 circumflexa ilii, 440 superior dental, 89 intercostal, 60 laryngeal, 40 mesenteric, 341 profiinda, 281 thyroid, 46 supra orbital, 184 scapular, 58, 273, 280 sural, 489 tarsal, 471 temporal, deep, 89 middle, 83 superficial, 83 thoracic axis, 221 alaris, 225 superior or short, 221 inferior or long, 227 thoraeiea acromialis, 221 humeraria, 221 thumb, dorsal, of, 291 thymic, 103 thyroid axis, 58 inferior, 58 superior, 46 middle, 31 tibial, anterior, 470 posterior, 492 recurrent, 470 tonsillar, 38 transversalis colli, 59, 274 faciei, 77 humeri, 58, 273 perinei, 366 tympanic, 88 ulnar, 251 ulnaris profunda, 258 ulnar, recurrent anterior, 252 posterior, 252 uterine, 413 vaginal, 413 Tasa brevia, 339 vertebral, 57, 514 vesical, inferior, 388 middle, 388 superior, 388 Vidian, 90 Willis, circle of, 515 Appendix vermiformis, 327 BUK Appendices epiploicje, 436 Arytenoid wirtilages, 164 Auditory nerve, 627, 678 Auricle, left, 138 right, 133 Axilla, dissection of, 222 Axis, caeliac, 337 thoracic, 221 thyroid, 68 Back muscles of, 201 nerves of, 207, 268 vessels of, 209 muscles of, connected with arm, 268 Bell's nerve, 63, 226 Bichat, fissure of, 536 Bile-duct, 340 Bladder, gall-, 329, 425 Bladder, urinary structure of, 392 trigone of, 393 uvula of, 395 nerves of, 396 blood vessels of, 396 female, 411 position of, 382 ligaments of, 376, 379 Brachial plexus, 61, 230 Bhain dissection of, 528 arteries of, 613 membranes of, 511 peculiarities of circulation in, 516 general division of, 616 sinuses of, 6 parts at base of, 523 Bronchus, right, 145 left, 146 Brown Sequard, researches of, 551 Bulb of urethra, 404 of vagina, 407 Burns, falciform process of, 444 BuBSiE of the biceps (arm), 236 under ball of great toe, 493 under the carpus, 264 under deltoid, 277 over the elbow, 282 between the fingers, 292 under glutseiis maximus, 475 over knuckles, 282 under latissimus dorsi, 270 over patella, 458INDEX. 591 BUR BuESiE (continued) under ligamentum patellae, 457 over pomum Adami, 163 under sartorius, 452 Tinder semimembranosus, 484 between toes, 499 under subscapularis, 279 under tendo Achillis, 488 Csecal (ilio-) valve, 437 Cajcum, 327 Calamus scriptorius, 541 Calf, dissection of the, 485 Canals, alimentary, 326 crural, 449 inguinal, 321 of Hnguier, 574 of Petit, 668 of Schlemm or Pontana, 562 semicircular, 575 Caput coli, 327 Caput gallinaginis, 397 Carpus, bursal sac of, 264 Caruncula lacrymalis, 71 Cauda equina, 547 Central line of neck, 33 Cerebellum, 541 crura or peduncles of, 643 lobes of, 542 Cerebral nerves, origin of, 524 Cerebro-spinal fluid, 612 of cord, 645 Cerebrum, 520 convolutions of, 522 nomenclature of parts at the base of, 523 Chambers of eye, 662 Chest, dissection of, 101 Chordae Willisii, 7 vocales, 167 false, 167 tendinese, 135 tympani, 93, 195 Choroid coat of the eye, 569 Choroid plexus, 536 of fourth ventricle, 540 Chyli receptaculum, 122 Ciliary arteries, 184 body, 561 ligament, 661 muscle, 562 processes, 561 Clitoris, 405 DUC Cochlea, 676 Colon, 327 ascending, 327 descending, 328 sigmoid flexure of, 328 transverse, 328 structure of, 436 Cohimnse carneee, 135 Commissivres of the cerebrum, 538 of the cerebellum, 543 Conjunctiva oculi, 555 Cord, spermatic, 584 spinal, 544 Cornea, 658 Cornicula laryngis, 165 Corpus Arantii, 137 callosum, 528 cavernosum penis, 402 geniculatum externum, 537 internum, 537 Highmori, 582 luteum, 420 rhomboideum, 543 spongiosum, 402, 404 striatum, 533 Cotunnii, liquor, 577 Cowper's glands, 400 in female, 408 Cricoid cartilage, 163 Crico-thyroid membrane, 164 Crura cerebri, structure of, 554 cerebelli, 643 Crural arch, 446 . Crural arch, deep, 449 Crural canal, 449 Crystalline lens, 668 Dartos, tunica scroti, 580 Deglutition, mechanism of, 161 Digastric triangle, dissection of, 35 Dtjcts arteriosus, 130 communis choledochus, 340, 425 communis ejaculatorius, 368 Cowper's, 400 cystic, 425 galactopherous, 579 hepatic, 340 lachrymal, 70, 198 of lachrymal gland, 180 nasal, 198 pancreatic, 344 parotid, 78INDEX. 592 DUG Ducts (continued) prostatic, 397 of Rivimis, 43 somiiiiil, 384 Stone's, 78 sublingual, 43 submaxillary, 37 thoracic, 55, 122 lU'oter or ronal, 345, 384 venosus, 143 "Wharton's, 37 Duodenum, 326, 343 Dura mater of brain, 5 arteries of, 4 sinuses of, 6 uses of, 5 Dura mater of spinal cord, 545 Duverney's glands, 408 Eab, dissection of the, 569 muscles of the, 2, 570 internal, 574 Endocardium, 133 Endolymph, 577 Epididymis, 681 Epiglottis, 165 Eustachian tube, 154 Eustachian valve, 135 Eye, dissection of, 655 Etblibs, structure of, 68 cartilages of, 69 ligaments of, 69 tendon of, 67 nerves of, 69 glands of, 71 caruncula of, 71 Face, dissection of, 64 Fallopian tubes, 419 Fallopii aquaeductus, 194 Falx cerebri, 5 cerebelli, 6 Fascia axillary, 223 buccal, 74 bucco-pharyngeal, 75 cervical, 17 costo-coracoid, 220 cribriform, 443 of forearm, 246 forearm, back of, 283 iliac, 349 infundibuliform, 321 Fascia {continued) lata, 442 of the leg, 467 mammary, 679 of metacarpus, 284 obturator, 378 orbital, 177 palmar, 256 pelvic, 376 in female, 411 perineal, superficial, 365 deep, 366 pharyngeal, 161 plantar, 493 popliteal, 480 prevertebral, 18 propria of hernia, 449 spermatic, 318 superficial, of abdomen, 308 perineum, 3G5 thigh, 438 temporal, 85 thoracic, 121 transversalis, 320 of upper arm, 235 FiBBO-CAHTrLAGES of the ear, 570 eyelids, 69 intervertebral, 211 interarticular, of clavicle, 296 jaw, 217 knee, 505 pubes, 500 wrist, 302 of the nose, 196 trachea, 146 Filum terminale, 646 Flexor tendons in the palm, 262 sheaths of the palm, 262 Foetal circulation, 143 Foot, dissection of sole of, 493 Foramina ovale of heart, 134 of Monro, 535 Soemmerring, 565 Thebesius, 135 ' "VVinslow, 323 Forearm, dissection of, 245 back of, dissection of, 283 Fornix, 534 Fossa na%-icularis, 400 ischio-rectal, 364, 375 Frtcnum linguse, 173 prejnitii, 402INDEX. 593 GAL Galen, veins of, 536 Gall-bladder, 329, 425 duet of, 425 Ganglia. of Andersch, 193 Arnold's, 194 cardiac, 131 cervical, of sympathetic, 99 thoracic, of sympathetic, 126 lumbar, of sympathetic, 356 pelvic, of sympathetic, 392 Cloquet's, 190 impar, 99 jugular, 193 lenticular, 185 Gasserian, 526 Meckel's, 189 naso-palatine, 190 olfactory, 525 ophthalmic or lenticular, 185 otic or Arnold's, 192 petrous, 193 semilunar, 345 spheno-palatine, 189 of spinal nerves, 549 submaxillary; -43 of Ribes, 99 Gimbemat's ligament, 446 Glaitos, secreting agminatae, 435 anal, 363 Bartholin's, 408 of Brunn, 435 Cowper's, 398, 374 in female, 408 Duverney's, 408 lachrymal, 180 of Lieberkiihn, 435 lingual, 175 mammary, 579 Meibomian, 71 mesenteric, 341 molar, 75 Naboth's, 417 oesophageal, 124 of Pacchioni, 7 palatine, 160 pancreas, 344 parotid, 77 socia parotidis, 78 Peyer's, 435 pineal, 538 pituitary, 523 prostate, 385 ILE Glands, seceeting (cojiiimced) solitary, 436 sublingual, 43 submaxillary, 37 testis, 581 thyroid, 29 tracheal, 146. Glans penis, 402 Glisson's capsule, 340, 422 Glottis, 166 Glutaeal region, 473 cutaneous nerves of, 473 Graafian vesicles, 420 Gubernacul\im testis,,585 Gyrus fornicatus, 522 Hamstring muscles, 482 Heajkt dissection of, 132 muscular fibres of, 141 peculiarities of-foetal, 142 . position and form of, 113, 116 rings of, 139 valves of, position of, 117 nerves of, 131 vessels of, how attached, 139 Helicotrema, 576 Hernia inguinal, dissection of parts concerned, 316 coverings of, 323 congenital, 323 changes produced by age, 325 infantile, 323 nomenclature of, 322 seat of stricture, 324 femoral, parts concerned in, 445 coverings of, 450 ■ • fascia propria of, 450 seat of stricture, 451 Herophyli, torcular, 10 Hey's ligament, 445 Hippocampus major, 535 minor, 535 Horner's muscle, 187 Housten's folds in rectum, 438 Humor, aqueous, 566 vitreous, 567 Hunter's canal, 460 Hyaloid membrane, 567 Hymen, 408 Ileum intestinum, 327 Q Q594 INDEX. ILE reum, glands of, 435 Ileo-cjEcal valvo, 437 Infundibuhiiii, 523 Inguinal canal, 321 boundaries of, 321 rings of, 317, 321 Intestinal canal, course of, 326 Intestines, structure of small, 435 glands of, 435 stfucture of large, 436 Iris, 562 Ischio-rectal fossa, 364, 375 Isthmus faucium, 156 Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, 538 Jejunum, 327 glands of, 435 Joints acromio-clavicular, 296 ankle, 607 carpal, 303 carpo-metacarpal, 305 crico-thyroid, 172 elbow, 298 of fingers, 306 of the foot, 509 hip, 501 intercarpal, 304 knee, 503 of lower jaw, 216 metacarpal, 305 metatarsal, 510 occipito-spinal, 2lS of pelvis, 600 of the ribs, 215 shoulder, 297 of the spine, 210 radio-carpal or wrist, 301 radio-ulnar, inferior, 301 stemo-clavicular, 294 tarsal, 509 tibio-fibular, 507 of the toes, 611 wrist, 301 Kidney, relations of, 344 situation of, 330 structure of, 427 labia majora, 405 LIG Labia minora, 405 Labyrinth, membranous, 577 osseous, 574 Lachrymal sac, 198 duct, 198 Lacteal vessels, 122 Lacunae of urethra, 400 Lamina cinerea, 623 spiralis, 576 Lamina cribrosa oculi, 557 fusca, 557 Laryngotomy, obsen-ations on, 33 Larynx, dissection of, 162 blood vessels of, 171 muscles of, 168 nerves of, 171 saeculus of, 166 ventricle of, 166 vocal cords of, 167 Leg, dissection of the front of, 466 Lens, crystalline, 568 capsule of, 568 Lenticular ganglion, 185 Ligaments accessory, of hip, or Uio-femoral, 502 humerus, 297 acromio-clavicular, 296 alaria, 505 annular, of the ankle, 467 anterior, 467 external, 468 internal, 468, 491 annular, anterior, of carpus, 260 posterior, of carpus, 283 annular, of radius, 300 arcuatum externum et internum, 346 of atlas and axis, 214 broad, of uterus, 409 calcaneo-cuboid, 510 scaphoid, 509 ciliary, 561 conoid and trapezoid, 296 coracoid, 296 coraco-acromial, 296 coraco-clavicular, 296 coraco-humeral (accessory), 297 coronary of liver, 329 coronary of knee, 506 costo-clavicular, 295 transverse, 215 cotyloid of hip, 503 crucial, 505 denticulatum, 546 external lateral, of ankle, 508INDEX. 695 Mastication, muscles of, 82 sacro-ischiatic, 6 01 LIG Ligaments (continued) external lateral, of elbow, 299 jaw, 216 knee, 504 wrist, 301 falciform, 329 Gimbernat's, 446 glenoid, of fingers, 306 toes, 511 shoulder, 298 glosso-epiglottideau, 173 Hey's, 445 hyo-epiglottidean, 165 ilio-femoral, 502 ilio-lumbar, 501 interclaTicular, 294 internal lateral, of ankle, 507 elbow, 299 jaw, 93, 216 knee, 504 wrist, 301 interosseous, of leg, 507 arm, 300 carpus, 303 forearm, 300 foot, 510 metacarpus, 305 tarsus and metatarsus, 510 interspinous, 211 intertransverse, 213 lateral, of liver, 329 bladder, 379 latum pulmonis, 118 mucosum, 505 nuchaj, 200, 269 oblique, of radius, 300 occiput, 213 odontoid or cheek, 214 orbicular, of radius, 300 of the ovary, 409 palpebral, 69 patellse, 467 of pelvis, 500 Poupart's, 312 posticum Winslowii, 504 pterygo-maxiUary, 73 of pubes, 500 of the riljs, 215 round, of liver, 329 hip, 502 uterus, 409 sacro-iliac symphysis, 601 Q MAS Ligaments (coniinued) of spine, 210 stellate, 215 sterno-clavicular, 294 stylo-hyoid, 94 stylo-maxillary, 39 subflava, 211 sub-pubic, 600 suspensory, of head, 214 liver, 329 penis, 402 spleen, 330 sympyhsis pubis, 500 sacro-iliac, 501 of tarsal cartilages, 69 tarsal, 509 teres, of hip, 502 thyi'o-epiglottidean, 165 thyro-hyoid, anterior, 162 lateral, 162 tibio-fibular, 507 transverse, of atlas, 214 fingers, 257 hip, 503 knee, 506 . metacarpal, 291 trapezoid and conoid, 296 triangular, of radius, 302 urethra, 369 Linea alba, 315 semilunaris, 314 Linese transversse, 314 Liquor Cotunnii, 577 Morgagni, 569 Liver, position of, 329 anatomy of, 421 Locus cseruleus, 541 niger, 554 perforatus anticus, 523 posticus, 523 Lungs constituents of root of, 132 lobules of, 147 nerves of, 125, 150 position and form of, 119 structure of, 144 Lunula of aortic valves, 137 Malpighian corpuscles, 429 of kidney, 429 spleen, 427 Mammary gland, dissection of, 579INDEX. 596 MEA Meatus audltorius externus, 671 Meatus urinarius, 40G Mediastinum anterior, 104 middle, 105 posterior, 105, 121 testis, 582 Medulla oblongata, 516 structiu-e of, 551 areiform fibres of, 553 Meibomian glands, 71 Membrana Jacobi, 565 liyaloidea, 567 limitans, 566 papillaris, 564 tympani, 572 Membranes of the brain, 511 cord, 645 Membranous labyrinth, 577 Meningeal arteries, anterior, 5 middle, 4 parva, 5 posterior, 5 Mesentery, 327, 334 Meso-ceecum, 334 colon, transverse, 332 rectum, 360 Mesorchium, 585 Mitral valve, 139 Modiolus, 576 Monro, foramen of, 535 Mons Veneris, 405 Morgagni, sinus of, 154 liquor of, 669 Muscles abductor minimi dig. manus, 266 pollicis manus, 265 pad., 494 min. dig., 495 accelerator urinoe, 368 accessorius, 202 adductor poUicis manus, 265 ped., 498 adductors-of thigh, 453 ^ '■ brevis; 465 longus, 454 magnus, 455 anconeus, 287 arytcnoideus, 169 aryteno-epiglottideus, 170 attollens aui-em, 2 attrahens aurem, 3 azy^os uvulae, 157 biceps flexor cubiti, 236 MUS Muscles {continued) biceps flexor cruris, 482 brachialis anticus, 238 buccinator, 73 cerviealis ascendens, 203 ciliary of the eye, 582 eyelid, 67 circumflexiis or tensor palati, 158 coccygeus, 387 cochlearib, 576 complexus, 204 compressor nasi, 72 urethra3, 372 female, 406 constrictor superior, of pharynx, 153 middle, 153 inferior, 153 coraco-brachialis, 237 corrugator supercilii, 68 ere master, 318 crico^arytenoideus lateralis, 170 posticus, 169 crico-thyrbid, 168 crureeus, 457 sub-, 457 deltoid, 275 depressor anguli oris, 66 labii inferioris, 66 superioris, 73 alse nasi, 73 septi narium, 66 diaphragm, 345 digastricus, 35 dilatator narium anterior, 73 posterior, 73 erector clitoridis, 406 penis, 369 spinae, 202 extensor communis dig. pedis, 468 carp. rad. long., 285 brevior, 285 communis digit., 285 digiti minimi, 286 carpi ulnaris, 286 indicis, 288 brevis dig. pedis, 471 propisius pollicis pedis, 468 ossis metac. pol., 288 primi interned, pol., 288 secundi internod., 288 extensors, of thigh, 456 triceps, 467 external oblique, 312 flexor brevis min. dig. man., 266597 INDKX. MUS Muscles {continued) flexor brevis miu. dig. ped., 498 dig. ped., 495 pollicis manus, 265 pollicis ped., 498 carpi radialis, 247 ulnaris, 248 longus dig. pedis, 490 pollicis pedis, 490 pollicis, 254 ossis metacarpi pollicis, 265 profundus digitor., 253 sublimis digit., 248 gastrocuemius, 486 gemelli, 477 genio-hyoideus, 40 genio-liyo-glossus, 42 glutseus maximus, 474 medius, 475 minimus, 475 gracilis, 454 hamstring, 482 hyo-glossus, 41 iliacus internus, 349 indicator, 288 infra spinatus, 278 intercostal, 127 internal oblique, 313 interosseous, palmar, 293 of the foot, 499 interspinales, 206 intertransversales, 206 latissimus dorsi, 226, 270 laxator tympani, 574 levator ani, 386 levator anguli scapulae, 272 levatores costarum, 206 levator menti, 66 levator palpebrae, 69, 180 levator labii superioris alseque nasi, 72 labii superioris, 72 anguli oris, 72 longissimus dorsi, 203 longus colli, 209 Ixmibricales, in palm, 264 lumbricales pedis, 496 masseter, 84 multifidus spinse, 205 mylo-hyoideua, 39 naso-labialis, 66 obliquus externus abdominis, 312 internus abdominis, 313 inferior capitis, 207 superior capitis, 207 MUS Muscles {continued) obliquus inferior oculi, 186 siiperior oculi, 181 occipito-frontalis, 2 obturator externus, 477 internus, 476 omo-hyoid, 24, 273 opponens digiti minimi, 266 opponens pollicis manus, 265 orbicularis oculi, 67 oris, 65 palpebrarum, 67 palato-glossus, 158 pharyngeus, 158 palmaris brevis, 256 lougus, 247 papillares, 135, 139 pectinati, 133, 138 pectineus, 454 pectoralis major, 218 , minor, 225 peroneus brevis, 472 longus, 472 tertius, 469 plantaris, 487 platysma myoides, 13 popliteus, 490 pronator quadratus, 254 prsevertebral, 209 pronator radii teres, 247 psoas magnus, 348 parvus, 349 pterygoid, external, 86 internal, 87 pyramidalis nasi, 68 pyriformis, 476 quadratus femoris, 477 quadratus lumborum, 350 ■ quadratus menti, 66 ; rectus abdominis, 313 • rectus capitis anticus major,-210 minor, 210 rectus capitis lateralis, 207 posticus major, 206 minor, 206 recti of the eye, 181 rectus femoris, 456 retrahens aurem, 3 risorius, 65 rhomboideus major, 272 minor, 272 rotatores spinae, 205 sacro-lumbalis, 202 Santorini's, 65598 INDEX. MUS Muscles {continued) sartorius, 462 scalenus anticus, 60 medius, 60 posticus, 60 semimembranosus, 483 semispinalis colli, 205 dorsi, 206 semitendinosus, 483 serratus magnus, 226, 274 posticus inferior, 201 superior, 200 soleus, 487 sphincter ani, cutaneous, 365 internal, 436 sphincter vaginae, 407 spinalis dorsi, 204 splenius capitis, 201 colli, 201 stapedius, 674 sterno-cleido mastoideus, 20 sterno-hyoid, 24 thyroid, 24 stylo-glossus, 42 hyoideus, 36 glossus, 94 pharyngeus, 94 subanconeus, 281 subclavius, 220 subcruraetis, 457 subscapularis, 279 supinator radii brevis, 289 lougus, 249 supra spinatus, 279 temporal, 85 tensor fasciae femoris, 455 tensor tarsi, 187 tympani, 574 palati, 158 teres major, 225, 278 minor, 278 thyro-arytenoideus, 170 thyro-hyoid, 26 tibialis anticus, 468 posticus, 491 trachelo-mastoid, 203 transversalis abdomiualis, 313 colli, 203 pedis, 498 transrersus perinei, 369 transverso-spinalis, 205 trapezius, 269 triangularis sterni, 103 triceps extensor cubiti, 244, 280 NER Muscles {coniiniied) triceps extensor femoris, 457 vastus externus, 457 internus, 457 zygomaticus major, 66 minor, 66 Naboth, glands of, 417 ovxLla., 417 Nasal duct, 198 Nates and testes, 539 Neck, dissection of, 13 Neeyes accessorius, 21 origin of, 627 accessory, of obtui-ator, 358 anterior crural, 358, 464 dental, 188 thoracic, 222 auditory, 527, 578 auricular, 84 of Arnold, 194 aurieulo-parotidean, 16 axillary plexus of, 230 BeU's, 63 brachial plexus of, 61, 230 buccal, inferior maxillary of, 91 buccal branches of facial, 81 cardiac, 100, 125 plexus, 131 of pneumogastric, 98 cerebral, origin of, 524 cervical branch of facial, 17 cervico-facial, 80 cervical plexus of, 49 chorda tympani, 93, 195 ciliary, long, 183 short, 185 coccygeal, 390 comrauuicantes noni, 26, 49 circumflex, 232, 277 communicans peronei, 486 poplitei, 486 cranial, exit of, 10 descendens noni, 29 dental, anterior, 188 inferior, 92 posterior, 188 digital, of median, 260 of ulnar, 259 eighth pair of, 192, 527 external cutaneous, of arm, 243 leg, 467599 INDEX. NER Nehves (continued) external cutaneous, of musculo-spiral, 233 thigh, 357 external laryngeal, 98 respiratory, 63, 226 saphenous, 486 fecial, 79 facial, cervical branch of, 17 fifth pair of, 626 first pair of, 524 fourth or pathetic, 179, 526 frontal, 179 genito-crural, 311, 357 glosso-pharyngeal, 94, 527 glutseal superior, 390, 476 great ischiatic, 391, 477, 485 occipital, 3 petrosal, 190, 195 gustatory, 43, 93 hypo-glossal, 42, 528 ilio-hypogastric, 311, 356 inguinal, 311, 356 inferior laryngeal, 125, 98 inferior maxillary, 90 infra-orbital, 82 infra-orbital branches of facial, 80 infra trochlear, 183 intercostal, 129 intercostal, cutaneous branches of, 218 intercosto-humeral, 223 internal cutaneous, of arm, 233 lesser cutaneous, of arm, 233 internal cutaneous, of thigh, 441 interosseous, anterior, 254 posterior, 290 ischiatic, great, 477, 485 lesser, 391, 478 Jacobson's, 193 labial, 82 lachrymal, 170 of Lancisi, 529 laryngeal, inferior, 98, 125 recurrent, 98, 125 laryngeal, superior, 98 external, 98 lesser ischiatic, 391, 478 petrosal, 191, 195 long ciliary, 183 long pudendal, 366 long saphenous, 464, 466 lumbar plexus, 356 lumbo-sacral, 357 malar, 179 NER Nerves {continued) malar branches of facial, 80 masseteric, 91 median, 242, 253 mental, 82 middle cutaneous, of thigh, 441 molles, 76, 100 motores oculi, 526 musculo-cutaneous, of arm, 243 leg, 467 musculo-spiral or radial, 244 mylo-hyoidean, 39, 93 maxillary, inferior, 90 superior, 187 nasal, 82 nasal branch of ophthalmic, 183 nasal, from spheno-palatine ganglion, 190 naso-lobular, 65, 183 naso-palatine, 190 ninth pair or hypoglossal, 528 obturator, 358, 465 accessory, of, 358 occipital, great, 3 small, 4 olfactory, 199, 524 optic, 184, 525 ophthalmic branch of fifth, 178 orbital of superior maxillary, 187 palatine, 189 palmar, of median, 253 palpebral, 82 pes anserinus, 80 perforans Casserii, 243 peroneal, 472 petrosal, great, 190, 195 petrosal, lesser, 191, 195 phrenic, 51, 111 difference between right and left. 111 plantar, external, 497 internal, 497 pneumogastric, 96, 527 in the chest, 124 at base of skull, 194 popliteal, 480 portio dura, 79, 194, 527 mollis, 527 posterior auricular, 80 posterior dental, 188 interosseous, 290 tibial, 493 saphenous, 486 posterior scapular, 272NEK NER^^:s {continued) pterygoid, 91 pudic, 376, 391 pulmonary, plexus of, 125 radial, 250 below the elbow, 251 recurrent, laryngeal, 98, 125 rhomboid, 63 sacral plexus of, 390 saphenous, external, 486 long, 464 seventh, 527 sixth, 186, 527 spermatic plexus of, 356, 585 spinal, accessory, 272 origin of, 649 spheno-palatine, 190 splanchnic, great, 126 lesser, 127 smallest, 127 subcutaneous malse, 187 subscapular, 232 superficialis colli, 17 perinei, 366 superior laryngeal, 47 maxillary, 187 supra clavicular, 218 orbital, 179 trochlear, 179 scapular, 63 sympathetic, in the neck, 99 in chest, 126 lumbar portion, 353 pelvic portion, 391 in penis, 392 temporal, to muscle, 91 superficial, 83 temporo-auricular, 83, 92 facial, 80 thigh, cutaneous, of, 441 tibial, anterior, 470 posterior, 493 third or motor oculi, 186, 526 tympanic, 193 lUnar, 243 deep palmar branch of, 259, Vidian, 190 of Wrisberg, 233 Nipple, 579 Nose dissection of, 195 blood vessels of, 199 boundaries of, 197 cartilages of, 195 INDEX. PER NosK {conlimicd) interior of, 196 meatus of, 197 mucous membrane of, 198 posterior openings of, 166 veins of, 199 Nuchas, ligamentum, 200, 269 Nymphae, 404 (Esophagus, 123 Olivary bodies or olives, 518 Omentum gastro-splenic, 330, 335 great, 334 gastro-hepatic, 334 lesser, 334 Orbit dissection of, 177 fascia, 177 periosteum, 177 Os-hyoides, 162 Os tincse, 413 uteri, 413 Otolithes, 577 Ovaries, 419 Pacchioni, glands of, 7 Pacini, corpuscles of, 261 Pat. ATE arches of, 157 hard, 160 soft, 166 Palm, dissection of, 255 Pancreas, situation of, 330 relations of, 344 Parotid gland, 77 Patella, structures covering the, 458 Pelvic viscera, side view of male, 376 Pelvis, dissection of male, 359 female, 409 side view of female, 410 Penis, absorbents of, 404 anatomy of, 401 corpus cavernosum, 402 cms, 402 Penis corpus spongiosum, 402 glans, 402 nerves of, 404 Pericardium, 113 objects seen when laid open, 116 Peri-lymph of the internal ear, 577PER Perineum, dissection of male, 362 female, 405 central tendon of, 366 Peritoaeum, 331 lesser cavity of, 333 Peritoneum in female pelvis, 410 Pes anserinus, 80 Petit, canal of, 568 Peyer's glands, 435 Pliarynx, dissection of, 150 aponeurosis of, 154 muscles of, 153 nerves of, 95 Pia mater, 513 of cord, 546 Pigmentum nigriim, 560 PinEeal gknd, 538 Pinna of the ear, 570 Platysma tnyoides, 13 Pleura, 118 Plexus op Nerves axillary, 230 brachial, 61, 23-0 cardiac, 131 carotid, 13 cavernous, 13 cervical, 49 cervical superficial, 16 coronary, 132 guise, 125 haetnorrhoidal, 356 hypogastric, 366 lumbar, 356 cesophageal, anterior, 97 posterior, 97 oesophageal, 125 pharyngeal, 95 prostatic, 392 pulmonary, 125 sacral, 390 solar, 336 spermatic, 356 uterine, 392 vaginal, 392 vesical, 392 Pomum Adami, 163 Pons Varolii, 520 structure of, 554 Popliteal space, 479 boundaries of, 480 Portio dura, 79 Pouch, recto-vaginal, 410 recto-vesical, 370 Poupart's ligament, 446 SCR Praicordial region, 116 Preputium, 401 clitoridis, 405 Processus a cerebello ad testes, 540 Promontory of tympanum, 572 Prostate, 396 structm-e of, 396 veins about, 385 Pterygo-maxillary region, 85 Puncta lachrymalia, 70 Pupil of eye, 563 Pylorus, 432 antrum of, 432 Pyramid in tlie ear, 574 Pyramids, anterior, 517 posterior, 519 Eeceptacidum chyli, 122 Eecto-vesical pouch, 360 Eectum, 328, 360 relations of, 381 meso-rectum, 381 blood vessels of, 382 folds in, 438 Eeil, island of, 522 fillet of, 553 Eenal capside, situation of, 331 structiu'e of, 430 Eestiform bodies or tracts, 518 Eete testis, 583 mirabile of Galen, 516 Eetina, 564 Eima glottidis, 166 Eings, external abdominal, 317 internal abdominal, 321 femoral, 449 fibrous, of the heart, 139 Eolando, arciform fibres of, 519 Saccule of the labjTinth, 577 Sac, lachrymal, 198 Saphenous opening of fascia lata, 443 Scalp aponeui'osis of, 2 arteries of, 1 absorbents of, 4 dissection of, 1 nerves of, 3 Scarpa's triangle, 452 Schneiderian membrane, 198 Sclerotic coat of the eye, 666 Scrotum, striictiu'e of, 580 11 R602 INDEX. SCR Scrotum, septum of, 680 Semicircular canals, 675 Septum lucidum, 633 pectiniformo, 403 Smus of aorta, 108 coronary, 140 of dura mater, 6 caTernous, 8, 12 circular, 9 inferior longitudinal, 8 lateral, 8 occipital, 9 petrosal, 9 straight, 8 superior longitudinal, 7 transverse, 9 circularis iridis, 662 of Morgagni (pharyngeal), 154 of Valsalva, 108 Sheath of femoral vessels, 448 Shoulder, dissection of, 275 Socrates, his description of the eyelids, 72 Soemmerring, foramen of, 565 Spermatic cord, 584 Spheno-maxillary region, 82 Spigelii lobuLus, 422 Spinal cord, dissection of, 544 blood vessels of, 551 columns of, 548 fissures of. 547 fluid of, 645 membranes of, 545 veins of, 544 Spinal nerves, origin of, 549 ganglia of, 549 Spine, ligaments of, 210 Spleen, position of, 330 structure of, 426 Steno's duct, 78 Stomach, position of, 326 blood vessels of, 338 structirre of, 433 Sublingual salivary gland, 43 Submaxillary region, 35 ganglion, 43 gland, 37 Sympathetic nerve, 99 in the neck, 99 chest, 126 abdomen, 353 pelvis, 391 Symphysis pubis. 600 sacro-iliac, 501 TYM Taenia hippocampi, 635 semicircularis, 633 Tarsal cartilages, 69 ligfiments, 69 Temporal region, dissection of, 82 Tegmentum, 564 Tendo Achillis, 487 Tendo ocidi, 67 Tentorium cerebelli, 6 Testicle, coverings of, 681 descent of, 685 stracture of, 583 Thalamus opticus, 537 Thebesii valvula, 135 foramina, 135 Thigh, dissection of, 438 back of, dissection of, 482 Thoracic duct, 122 Thyroid body, 29 cartilage, 163 Tongiie, dissection of, 172 TonsUs, 159 Torcular Herophili, 10 Trachea, 145 Tracheotomy, observations on, 34 Transverse meso-colon, 334 Teiangles of neck, 21 anterior, 21 posterior, 21 digastric 35 of elbow, 246 perineum, 362 Scarpa) 462 submaxillary, 35 supra-clavicular, 22 Triangular ligament of urethra, 369 Tricuspid valve, 136 Trigone of bladder, 395 Tube, Eustachian, 154 I'allopian, 409, 418 Tuber annulare, or Pons Varolii, 620 cinereum, 623 Tiibercula quadrigemina, 539 Tunica Euyschiana, 560 albuginca testis, 682 vaginalis scroti, 582 vasculosa scroti. 583 Tympanic arteries, 574 bones, 573 Tympanum of the oar, 571 membrane of, 572 muscles of, 574INDEX. G03 UMB Umbilical aaiery, remains of, 325 Upper arm, dissection of, 232 Urachiis, 325 Ureter, course of, 384 muscles of, 395 ligaments of, 409 Urethra, male, 385, 399 membranous part of, 386 Urethra, female, 406, 412 Uterus, appendages of, 411 arteries of, 413 absorbents of, 414 cervix of, 415 description of, 413 ligaments of, 409 nerves of, 414 muscular fibres of, 417 position of, 409 Utriculus, 397 Uvea, 663 Uvula of bladder, 395 of palate, 157 of cerebellum, 542 Vagina, 407, 412 bulb of, 407 sphincter of, 407 stn.icture of, 415 Vaginalis tunica scroti, 582 Valsalva, sinuses of, 139 Vaxves of coronary vein, 140 Eustachian, 135 ilio-csecal, 437 mitral, 139 piilmonary, 137 semi-lunar, of aorta, 137 of Thebesiiis, 135 of Tarini, 542 tricuspid, 136 of Vieussens, 540 Valvulse conniventes, 434 Vas deferens, 384, 584 Vasa efFerentia testis, 584 recta testis, 583 Veins anterior jugular, 15 auditory, 578 axillary, 230 azygos, 121 minor, 122 basilic, 234 brachial, 239, 241 VEI Veins (continued) bracMo-cephalic, left, 106 right, 106 bronchial, 150 capsular, 351 cava, inferior, 353 superior, 107 cephalic, 221 choroid of eye, 560 coronary, 135, 140 common iliac, 353 dorsalis penis, 380, 404 external jugular, 14 saphena, 485 facial, 38, 77 femoral, 459 of Galen, 536 hsemorrlioidal, 382 inferior mesenteric, 343 iliac, common, 353 external, 353 internal, 353 innominate or brachio-cephalic, 106 intercostal, 128 internal jugular, 28 maxillary, 90 jugular, anterior, 15 external, 14 internal, 28 jugulo-cephalic, 221 lingual, 45 lumbar, 353 mammary, internal, 90 maxillary, external, 38, 77 median, 233 basilic, 233 cephalic, 233 profunda, 233 nasal, 199 occipital, 48 ophthalmic, 185 ovarian, 421 pampiniform, plexus of, 584 pharyngeal, plexus of, 153 phrenic, 361 popliteal, 489 portaB, 339 posterior scapular, 59 profunda femoris, 461 prostatic plexus of, 379 radial, 245 renal, 362 sacra media, 353 saphena, 441604 INDEX. VEI Veins {continued) saphona, external, 485 posterior, 485 spermatic, 352 spinal system of, 644 subclavian, 61 superior intercostal, 128 mesenteric, 342 supra-scapxilar, 69 thyroid, middle, 59 inferior, 31 superior, 47 tibial, anterior, 470 posterior, 492 idnar, anterior, 245 posterior, 245 uterine, 414 vaginal plexus, 411 veua cava, inferior, 353 superior, 107 vertebral, 58 vesical plexus of, 379, 396 vorticosse ocidi, 560 "Velum interpositiun, 536 Veneris, mons, 405 VlSNTUlOLKS lateral, of brain, 631 fifth, 634 third, 637 fourth, 540 of the laiynx, ] 60 heart, left, 139 right, 135 Vermiform processes of cerebf-llum, 642 superior, 642 inferior, 642 I Vermiformis, apijendix, 327 j Veru montanum, 397 Vesicles, Graafian, 420 I Vesiculae seminales, 384, 398 j Vestibule of the ear, 675 j Villus, structure of a, 434 I Vocal chords, 167 ! Wharton's duct, 37 I "Willis, circle of, 315 "Winslow, foramen of. 323 Wrisberg, neiTe of, 233 Zinn, zone of, 668 BrOTTISWOOnii AND CO., KF.W-STRKKT EQVAIt£ fUB PARLIAME>rT BTKKETLondon, New Burlington Street, October, 1808. 1 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' IN MEDICINE AND THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF NATUEAL SCIENCE. " It would 1)6 unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published."—Lancet. " All the publications of Jlr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." — Edinburi;h Medical and Surgical Journal. " No one is more distinguished for the elegance and recherche style of hin publica- tions than Mr. Churchill."—Provincial UlediculJournal. " The name of Churchill has long been a guarantee for the excellence of illustrated works, and it would be superfluous to repeat the admiration that we have several times expressed in this respect, of the spirit mth which this firm engages in these costly but valuable series."—Medical Press and Circular. "The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Jlr. Churcliill's publi- cations, most beautiful."—Monthly Journal of Medical Science. " Mr. Churchill's illustrated works are among the best that emanate from the Medical Press."—Medical Times. "We have bcfare called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great advantage wliich Mr. Churchill lias conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a moderate cost, of works so higlily creditable in point of artistic e::ecution and scientific merit."—Dublin Quarterly Journal. IkMessrs. Chorchii-i, & Sons are the Publibhcrs of the following Periodicals, offering to Authors a wide extent of Literary Annour.cement, and a Medium of Advertisement, addressed to all Classes of the Profession. THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDICO- CHIRURGICAL REVIEW, QUARTERLY JOURNAL o)"PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Price Six Sliillings. Nos. I. to LXXXIV. THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF SCIENCE. Price Five Sliillings. Nos. I. to XX. THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MICROSCOPICAL SCIENCE, IXCLnDING TUB TRANSACTIONS OF THE ROTAL MiCKOSCOPICAL SOCIETT OF LONDON. Edited by Dk. Lanke.steh, F.R.S., and Geohge BnsK, F.R.S. Price 4s. Nos. I. to XXXII. Neic Series. THE JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE. By authority of the Medico-Psychological Association. Edited by C. L. Robebtson, M.D., and Henut Macdslet, JI.D. Published Quarterly, price 3s. 6d. New Series. Nos. I. to XXXI. ARCHIVES OF MEDICINE: A Record of Practical Observations and Anato- mical and Chemical Researches, connected with the Investigation and Treatment of Disease. Edited by Dr. Lionel S. Beale, F.R.S. Published Quarterly; Nos. I. to VIII., 3s. 6(i.i IX. to XIL, 2s. 6t/., XIIL to XVL, 3s. THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL REPORTS, AND JOURNAL OF OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Vol. VI., Part 2, 2s. Cd. JOURNAL OF CUTANEOUS MEDICINE. Edited by Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Published Quarterly, price 2s. 6d. No. L to VII. THE MEDICAL TIMES & GAZETTE. Published Wceldy, price Si.xpence, or Stamped, Sevcnpence. Annual Subscription, £1. Cs., or Stamped, £1. 10s. id., and regularly forwarded to ail parts of the Kingdom. THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL, Containing the Transactions of the Phae- maceutical Society. Published Montlily, price One Shilling. *«* Vols. I. to XXVII., bound in cloth, price 12s. (id. each. THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DENTAL SCIENCE. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Nos. L to CXLVI. THE MEDICAL DIRECTORY FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM. Published Annually. 8vo. cloth, lOs. Crf. THE HALF-YEAKLY ABSTEACI OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. BEING A DIGEST OF BRITISH, AND CONTINENTAL MEDICINE, AND OP THE PROGRESS OF MEDICINE AND THE COLLATERAL SCIENCES. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. Vols. I. to XLVU. " American physicians may be congratulated that they are once more favoured -with the reprint of ' R.inking's Abstr.ict.' If any doctor is so busy that lie can read but a single volume a year, then, a.<suredly, he should make this his book; for here are collected and condensed the most vaiuable con- tributions to periodical medical literature—French, Gennan, Brilis-li, and American—for the year; and, on the other hand, no physician—it matters not how wide tlie range of his reading—can fail to find, in this volume, truths that will enlarge his medical knowledge, and precepts tliat will help liiin in some of his daily professional necHs."—Ciiici»iinli .Journal of Medicine, April, 18C7. "We have only .space to say that this volume is rich in valuable articles, among which there are many on materia medica and therapeutic.'. Gathered from nil sources in the new book.s and medical journals of ICiiroiie and .America, this work may be viewed as the cream of that cl.iss of medical cs,s!iy.s. and is a useful occupant of the physician's oflice-t.able, to keep him reminded of tlio progress cf medicine." —Autcrican Journal of I'luirmaoj, May, 18('i7.-3^ A CLASSIFIED INDEX TO MISSIS. afiOTtt k mm am^CTi. ANATOMY. PAOB Anatomical Remembrancer .. 7 Flower on Nerves 16 Hassall'3 Micros. Anatomy .. 19 Heale's Anatomy of the Lungs 19 Heatli's Practical Anatomy .. 20 Holden's Human Osteology .. 20 Do. on Dissections .. .. 20 Huxley's Comparative Anatomy 21 Jones' and Sieveldng's Patho- logical Anatomy 22 MacDougal—Hirschfeld on the Nervous System v Maclise's Surgical Anatomy .. 25 St- Bartholomew's Hospital Catalogue 31 Sibson's Sledical Anatomy .. 33 Waters' Anatomy of Lung .. 37 Wheeler's Anatomy for Artists 38 Wilson's Anatomy 39 CHEmSTRY. BeiTiays' Notes for Students .. 9 Bloxam's Chemistry 10 Bowman's Practical Chemistry 10 Do. Medical do. .. 10 Fownes' Manual of Chemistry.. 16 Do. Actonian Prize .. ..16 Do. Qualitative Analysis .. 16 Fresenius' Chemical Analysis.. 16 Galloway's First Step .. .. 17 Do. Second Step .. ..17 Do. Analysis 17 Do. Tables 17 Grifliths'Four Seasons .. ..18 Horsley's Chem. Philosophy ..21 Mulder on thoChemistryof Wine27 Plattner&Muspratton Blowpipe28 Shnttleworth'sModernChemistry32 Speer's PathoL Chemistry .." 34 Sutton's Volnmetric Analysis . 34 CLIMATE. Bennet's Winter in the South of 9 Europe Chambers on Italy 12 Dalrymple on Egypt 14 Francis on Change of Climate.. 16 Hall on Torquay 19 Haviland on Climate 19 Horton on West Coast of Africa 21 Lec on Climate 24 Do. Watering Places of England 24 McClelland on Bengal .. .. 25 JIcNicoU on Sonthport .. .. 25 Jfartin on Tropical Climates .. 26 Moore's Diseases of India .. 26 Patterson's Egypt and the Nile 28 Scorcsby-Jackson's Climatology 32 Shapfer on South Devon .. .. £2 Siordet on Mcntone 33 Taylor on Pau and Pyrenees .. 35 Williams on South of France .. 38 Adams on Spinal Curvature .. 6 Do. on Clubfoot 6 DEFOEMITIES, &c. PAGE Bigg's Orthoprnxy 10 Bishop on Deformities .. ..10 Do. Articulate Sounds .. 10 Brodliurst on Spine 11 Do. on Clubfoot .. ..11 Godfrey on Spine 17 Hugman on Hip Joint .. ..21 Salt on Lower Extremities .. 31 Tamplin ou Spine 35 DISEASES OF WOMElir AND CHILDREN. Ballard on Infants and Mothers 7 Bennet on Uterns 9 Bird on Childi-en 10 Bryant's Surg. Diseases of ChUd. 11 Eyi-e's Practical Remarks .. 15 Harrison on Children .. ..19 Hood on Scarlet Fever, &c. .. 21 Kiwisch (ed. by Clay) on Ovaries 13 Lee's Ovarian & Uterine Diseases 24 Do. on Speculum 24 Ritchie on Ovaries 31 Seymour on Ovaria 32 Tilt on Uterine Inflammation.. 36 Do. Uterine Therapeutics .. 36 Do. on Change of Life .. ..36 Undenvood on Children .. .. 37 Wells on the Ovaries 38 West on Women 38 Do. (Uvedale) on Puerp. Diseases 38 Wright on Uterine Disorders .. 39 GENERATIVE ORGANS, Diseases of, and SYPHILIS. Acton on Reproductive Organs 6 Coote on Syphilis 14 Gant on Bladder 17 Hutchinson on Inherited Syphilis 22 Judd on Syphilis 23 Lee on Syphilis 24 Oppert on Syphilis 27 Parker on Syphilis 27 Wilson on Sypliilis 39 HYGIENE. Aimstrong on Naval Hygiene 7 Beale's Laws of Health .. .. 8 Do. Health and Disease .. 8 Carter on Training 12 Chavasse's Advice to a Mother.. 13 Do. Advice to a Wife .. 13 Dobell's Germs and Vestiges of Disca.so J!) Fife &. Urqulmrt on Turlci.sh Bath 10 Gordon on Army Hygiene .. 17 Granville on Vicliy 18 Hartwig on Sea Bathing .. ..19 BYQIEEE—continued. PAon Hartwig on Physical Education 19 Hufeland'sArtofprolongingLife 21 Hunter on Body and Mind .. 21 Lee's Baths of France, Germany, and Switzerland 24 Lowndes on the Maintenance of Health 25 Moore's Health in Tropics .. 26 Parkes on Hygiene 27 Parkin on Disease 28 Pearse's Notes on Health.. .. 28 Pickford on Hygiene .. .. 28 Robertson on Diet 31 Routli on Infant Feeding.. .. 31 Tunstall on Bath Waters .. .. 36 Wells' Seamen's Medicine Chest 38 Wife's Domain 38 Wilson on Healthy Skin .. ..39 Do. on Mineral Waters .. 39 Do. on Turkish Bath .. .. 39 MATERIA MEDICA and PHARMACY. Bateman's Magnacopia .. .. 8 Beasley's Fomiulaiy .. .. .. 9 Do. Receipt Book .. .. 9 Do. Book of Prescriptions 9 Birch on Oxygen 10 Brunton on Digitalis 11 Frazer's Materia Medica .. .. 10 Nevins' Analysis of Pharmacop. 27 Poreira's Selecta h Praascriptis 28 Prescriber's Phai-macopoeia .. 29 Royle's Materia Medica .. ..31 Squire's Hospital Pharmacopajias 34 Do. Companion to the Phar- macopjeia 34 SteggaU's First Lines for Che- mists and Druggists .. ..34 Stowe's Toxicological Chart .. 34 Taylor on Poisons 35 Waring's Therapeutics .. .. 37 Wittstein's Phai-macy .. ..39 MEDICINE. Adams on Rheumatic Gout .. 6 Addison on Cell Therapeutics.. 6 Do. on Healthy and Dis- eased Stinctiiro 6 Aldis's Hospital Practice .. .. G Anderson (Andrew) on Fever.. 7 Austin on Paralysis 7 * Barclay on Medical Diagnosis.. h Do. on Gout 8 Barlow's Practice of Medicine 8 Basham on Dropsy 8 Brinton on Stomach 11 Do. on Intestinal Obstruction 11 Budd on the Liver 11 a 2CLASSIFIED INDEX. MEDICINE—coH<t«afirf, rtnE Hudtl on stomach II Cnmplin on Dinbctcs 12 Catlow on /'Esthetic Medicine.. 12 Chambers on the Indigestions 12 Do. Lectures 12 Cockle on Cancer 13 Dale's Practical Medicine.. .. H Davey'sGanglionicNoiTousSyst. 15 Day's Clinical Histories .. ..15 Eyre on Stomach 15 Fenwick on the Stomacli.. .. 1G Foster on the Sphygmograph .. IG Fuller on Uheumatlsra .. ..17 Gairdncr on Gout 17 Gibb on Throat 17 Do. on Laryngoscope .. ..17 Granville on Suddeu Death .. 18 Gritfith on the Skin 18 Gully's Simple Ti-eatment .. 18 Habershon on the Abdomen .. 18 Do. on Mercury .. ..13 Hall (Slarshall) on Apnoea .. 18 Do. Observations.. 18 Headland—Action of Medicines 19 Do. Medical Handbook 19 Hooper's Physician's Vade- Mecnm 18 Inman's New Tlieory .. .. 22 Do. Myalgia 22 James on Laryngoscope .. .. 22 Jencken on Cholera 22 Jones (Bence) on Pathology and Thei'apeutics 22 Maclachlan on Advanced Life.. 25 MacLeod on Acholic Diseases.. 25 Macleod's Ben Khydding .. .. 25 Marcet on Chronic Alcoholism. 25 Macpherson on Cholera .. .. 26 Marldiam on Bleeding .. .. 2G Morris on Genninal Matter .. 2G Meryon on Paralysis .. .. 26 Mushet on Apoplexy 27 Nicholson on Yellow Fever .. 27 Parkin on Cholera 28 Tavj on Diabetes 28 Do. on Digestion 28 Peet's Principles and Practice of Medicine 28 Roberts on Palsy 31 Robertson on Gout 31 Sansom on Cholera 32 Savory's Domestic Medicine .. 32 Semple on Cough 32 Seymour on Dropsy 32 Shaw's Medical Remembrancer 32 Shrimpton on Cholera .. .. 32 Smee on Debility 33 Steggall's Medical Manual .. 34 Thomas' Practice of Physic .. 35 Thudichum on Gall Stones .. 35 Todd's Clinical Lectures .. .. 3G Tweedie on Continued Fevers 36 Walker on Diphtheria .. .. 37 Wlint to Observe at the Bedside 25 Williams' Principles 38 Wright on Headaches .. .. 39 MICEOSCOPE. , Bcale on Jlicroscopo in Medicine 8 Carpenter on Microscope .. .. 12 Schachton do 32 MISCELLANEOUS. Acton on Prostitution .. .. C Barclay's Medical Errors .. .. 8 MISCELLANEOUS—coK^''- viol Barker .t F.dwards' Pliotographs 8 BascoMie on Epidemics .. .. 8 Biiclile's Hospital Statistics .. 11 Coolcy's Cyclopaidia 13 Gordon on China 17 Graves' Physiology and Medicine 17 Guy's Hospital Reports .. ..17 Harrison on Lead in Water .. 19 Hingeston's Topics of the Day.. 20 Howe on Epidemics 21 Lane's Hydropathy 23 Lee on Homoeop. and Hydrop. 24 London Hospital Reports.. .. 25 JIayne's Medical Vocabulaiy .. 26 Oppert on Hospitals 27 Part's Case Book 28 Redwood's Supplement to Phar- macopoeia 30 Ryan on Infanticide 31 St. George's Hospital Reports .. 31 Simms'Winter in Paris .. ..33 Snow on Chlorofonn 33 Waring's Tropical Resident at Home 37 Whiteliead on Transmission .. 38 Wise's Med. amongst Asiatics.. 38 NERVOUS DISOEDEES AND INDIGESTION. AlthausonEpilepsy,Hysteria,cS!C. 7 Birch on Constipation .. ..10 Carter on Hysteria 12 Downing on Neuralgia .. ..15 Hunt on Heartburn 21 Jones (Handfield) on Functional Nervous Disorders 22 Leared on Imperfect Digestion 23 Lobb on Nervous Affections .. 24 Morris on Irritability 26 Radcliffe on Epilepsy .. .. 30 Reade on Syphilitic Affections of the Nervous System .. .. 30 Reynolds on the Brain .. .. 30 Do. on Epilepsy .. .. 30 Rowe on Nervous Diseases .. 31 Sieveking on Epilepsy .. .. 33 Turnbnli on Stomach .. .. 36 OBSTETEICS. Barnes on Placenta Prsevia .. 8 Hodges on PuerperalConvulsions20 Lee's Clinical Jlidwifeiy .. .. 24 Do. Consnltations 24 Lcishnian's Mechanism of Par- turition 24 Pretty's Aids during Labour .. 29 Priestley on Gravid Uterus .. 30 Ramsbotham's Obstetrics.. .. 30 Do. Midwifery.. .. 30 Sinclair & Johnston's Jlidwifcry 33 Smellie's ObstelTic Plates.. .. 33 Smitli's JIanual of Obstetrics .. 33 Swayne's Aphorisms 34 Waller's Midwifery 37 OPHTHALMOLOGY. Cooper on Injuries of Eye .. 13 Do. on Near Sight .. ..13 Dalrymplo on Eye 14 OPHTHALIIOLOGY-conJ''- flcr. Di.xon on llic Eye 1.^ Hogg on Ophthalmoscope ..20 Hulke on the Ophthalmoscope 21 Jago on Entoptics 22 Jones'Ophthalmic Medicine .. 23 Do. Defects of Sight .. ..23 Do. Eye and Ear 23 Macnamara on the Eye .. .. 25 Nunneley on the Organsof Vision 27 Power's Illnstrations of Dis- eases of the Eye 29 Solomon on Glaucoma .. .. 33 Walton on the Eye 37 Wells on Spectacles 38 PHYSIOLOGY, Carpenter's Human 12 Do. Manual 12 Heale on Vital dauses .. ..19 Richardson on Coagulation .. 30 Shea's Animal Physiology 32 Virchow's (od. by Chance) Cel- lular Pathology 12 PSYCHOLOGY. Arlidge on the State of Lunacy 7 Bucknill and Tuke's Psycholo- gical Medicine II Conolly on Asylums 13 Davey on Nature of Insanity .. 15 Dunn on Psychology 15 Hood on Criminal Lunatics .. 21 JlUlingen on Treatment ofInsane2G Murray on Emotional Diseases 27 Noble on Mind 27 Sankey on Mental Diseases .. 31 Winslow's Obscure Dis. of Brain 39 PULMONAEY and CHEST DISEASES, &c. Alison on Pulmonary Consump- tion 6 Bright on the Chest 10 Cotton on Stethoscope .. ..14 Davies on Lungs and Heart .. 14 Dobell on the Chest 15 Do. on Tubercnlosis .. ..15 Do. on Winter Cough .. .. 15 Do. First Stage of Consump- tion 15 Fenwick on Consumption.. .. IG Fuller on the Lungs 17 Do. on Heart 17 Jones (Jas.) on Consumption.. 22 Laennce on Auscultation .. .. 23 Markham on Heart 26 Peacock on the Heart .. .. 28 Pirrie on Hay Asthma .. ..29 Salter on Asthma 31 Skoda on Auscultation .. .. 26 Thompson on Consumption .. 35 Timms on Consumption .. .. 36 Tnnibull on Consumption .. 36 M'aters on the Chc^t 37 Do. on Emphysema .. ..37 Weber on Auscultation .. ..38CLASSIFIED INDEX. EENAL and URINAEY DISEASES. Acton on Urinary Organs .. 6 Beale on Urine 8 Bird's Urinary Deposits .. ..10 Coulson on Bladder l"! H assail on Urine 19 Parlios on Urine 27 Tliudiclium on Urine .. .. 35 Todd on Urinary Organs .. .. 36 SCIENCE. Baxter on Organic Polarity .. 8 Bentley's Manual of Botany .. 9 Brooke's Natural Philosophy .. 11 Craig on Electric Tension .. 14 Hardwicli's Photography .. .. 19 Hinds' Harmonies '20 Howard on the Clouds .. ..21 Jones on Vision .. .. ■.. ..23 Do. on Body, Sense, and Mind 23 Mayne's Lexicon 26 Noad on the Inductorium .. 27 Pratt's Genealogy of Creation.. '29 Do. Eccentric ifc Centric Force 29 Do. on Orbital Motion .. .. 29 Do.Astronomicallnvestigations 29 Do. Oracles of God 29 Price's Photography 30 Rainey on Shells 30 Keymond's Animal Electricity 30 Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence 35 Unger's Botanical Letters .. 37 Vestiges of Creation 36 SURGERY. Adams on Reparation of Tendons Uo. Subcutaneous Surgery Anderson on the Skin .. . Ashton on Rectum Brodhurst on Anchylosis .. . Bryant on Diseases of Joints . Do. Clinical Surgery . Callender on Rupture .. . Chapman on Ulcers Do. Varicose Veins .. . Clark's Outlines of Surgery . CoUis on Cancer Cooper (Sir A.) on Testis .. . Do. (S.) Surg. Dictionary Coulson on Stone in Bladder . Curling on Rectum Do. on Testis Druitt's Surgeon's Vado-Mecum Fayrer's Clinical Surgery Fergusson's Surgery.. . Do. Progress of Surgery 16 Gamgee'sAmputation at Hip-jointl7 Gant's Principles of Surgery .. 17 Heath's Minor Surgery and Bandaging 20 Higginbottom on Niti-ate of Silver 20 Hodgson on Prostate 20 Holt on Stricture 21 James on Hernia 22 Do. on Inflammations .. ,. 22 Jordan's Clinical Surgery .. 23 Lawrence's Surgery 23 Do. Ruptures 23 Lee on the Rectum, &c 24 Listen's Surgery 24 Logan on Slcin Diseases .. .. 24 PACK 6 6 7 7 II 11 n 12 12 12 13 13 14 14 14 14 14 15 15 16 SURGERY—co?j<;«Me(i. PACK Macleod's Surgical Diagnosis .. 25 Do. Surgery of the Crimea 25 Maclise on Fractures 25 Maunder's Operative Surgery.. 26 Nayler on Skin Diseases .. .. 27 Nunneley on Erysipelas .. .. 27 Pirrie's Surgery 29 Pirrie <& Keith on Acupressure 29 Price on Excision of ICnee-joint 29 Salt on Rupture 31 Sansom on Chloroform .. .. 32 Smith (Hy.) on Sti-icture .. .. 33 Do. on Hcemorrhoids .. .. 33 Do.ontheSurgeryof theRectum 33 Do. (Dr. J.) Dental Anatomy and Surgery 33 Spender on Ulcers 34 Squire on Skin Diseases .. .. 34 SteggaU's Surgical Manual .. 34 Teale on Amputation .. .. 35 Thompson on Stricture .. .. 35 Do. on Prostate .. .. 35 Do. Lithotomy and Lithotrity 35 Tomes' Dental Surgery .. .. 36 Wade on Stricture 37 Webb's Surgeon's Ready Rules 37 Wilson on Sldn Diseases .. .. 39 Do. Portraits of Skin Diseases 39 Yearsley on Deafness .. .. 39 Do. on Throat 39 VETERINARY MEDICINE. Blaine's Veterinary Art .. ..10 Bourguignon on the Cattle Plague 1Q TO BE COMPLETED IN TWELVE PARTS, 4to., at 7s. 6d. PER PART. PARTS I. & II. NOW READY. A DESCRIPTIVE TREATISE ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF MAN, WITH THE MANNER OF DISSECTING IT. By LUDOVIC HIKSOHFELD, DOCTOn OF 3IEDICIXB OS THE USJVEIISITIES OP PARIS AXD WAJISAW, PBOFESSOtt OF ANATOJtY TO THE FACULTY 01' MEDICINE OF 'WAIISAW; Edited in English (from the French Edition q/"1066^ By ALEXANDER MASON MACDOUGAL, E.R.C.S., wiTn AN ATLAS OF ARTISTICALIiY-COLOUIlED ILLUSTRATIONS, Embracinff tlie Anatomy of the entire Cerebro-Spinal and Sympathetic Nervous Centres and Distri- butions in tlieir accurate relations witli all the important Constituent Parts of the Human liconomy, and embodied in a series of 5G Single and 9 Double Plates, comprising 197 Illustrations, ■ Designed from Dissections prepared hy the Author, and Drawn on Stone hy J. B. LEVEILLl^.MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. MR. ACTON, M.R.C.S. A PEACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS IN BOTH SEXES. Third Edition. 8vo cloth £1. Is. With Plates, £1. lis. 6d. The Plates alone, limp cloth, 10s. Cd. ' THE FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE REPRODUC- TIVE ORGANS IN CHILDHOOD, YOUTH, ADULT AGE, AND ADVANCED LIFE, considered in their Physiological, Social, and Moral Relations. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 1 Os. Gd. III. PROSTITUTION: Considered in its Moral, Social, and Sanitary Bearings, with a View to its Amelioration and Regulation. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. ADAMS, A.M. A TREATISE ON RHEUMATIC GOUT; OR, CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 8vo. cloth, with a Quarto Atlas of Plates, 21s, MR. WILLIAM ADAMS, F.R.C.S. ON THE PATHOLOGY ANDTREATMENT OF LATERAL AND OTHER FORMS OF CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. With Plates 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6c/. ^™ II. CLUBFOOT : its Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1864. With 100 Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. III. ON THE REPARATIVE PROCESS IN HUMAN TENDONS AFTER SUBCUTANEOUS DIVISION FOR THE CURE OF DEFORMITIES- With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SUBCUTANEOUS SURGERY. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. DR. WILLIAM ADDISON, F.R.S. CELL THERAPEUTICS. 8vo. doth, 4.. ON HEALTHY AND DISEASED STRUCTURE, and the True PniNCiPLES OF Treatment for the Cure of Disease, especiallv Cox.sumption AND Scrofula, founded on Microscopical Analysis. 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. ALOIS. AN INTRODUCTION TO HOSPITAL PRACTICE IN YARIOUS COMPLAINTS; with Remarks on their Pathology and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. DR. SOMERVILLE SCOTT ALISON, M.D.EDIN., F.R.C.P. THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST IN PUL- MONARY CONSUMPTION, AND ITS INTERCURRENT DISEASES. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s.MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 7 f 3^ ^ DR. ALTHAUS, M.D., M.R.C.P. T ON EPILEPSY, HYSTERIA, AND ATAXY. Cr. 8vo. doth, 4.. i THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; OR, COMPLETE ' POCKET ANATOMIST. Sixth Edition, carefii% Revised. 32mo. cloth, 3s. Cd. DR. MOCALL ANDERSON, M.D. PARASITIC AEEECTIONS OE THE SKIN. With Engravings. Ovo. cloth, OS. II. ECZEMA. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. IIT. PSORIASIS AND LEPRA. AVith Chromo-lithograph. 8vo, cloth, 5s. DR. ANDREW ANDERSON, M.D. i TEN LECTURES INTRODUCTORY TO THE STUDY OE EEVER. Post Bvo. cloth, OS. ,\V DR. ARLIDGE. t ON THE STATE OE LUNACY AND THE LEGAL PROVISION FOR THE INSANE; with Observations on the Construction nnd Organisation of ^ Asylums. iJvo. cloth, 7s. DR. ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. OBSERVATIONS ON NAVAL HYGIENE AND SCURVY. More particularly as the latter appeared during a Polar Voyage. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. T. J. ASHTON. ON THE DISEASES, INJURIES, AND MALEORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. ir. PROLAPSUS. EISTULA IN ANO, AND HiEMORRHOIDAL AFFECTIONS ; their Pathology and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8yo. cloth 2s. Gd. MR. THOS. J. AUSTIN, M.R.C.S.ENQ. A PRACTICAL ACCOUNT OE GENERAL PARALYSIS; Its Mental and Physical Symptoms, Statistics,Causes, Seat, and Treatment. 8vo.cIoth, 6s. DR. THOMAS BALLARD, M.D. t A NEAV AND RATIONAL EXPLANATION OF THE DIS- i EASES PECULIAR TO INFANTS AND MOTHERS; with obvious Suggestion X for their Prevention and Cure. Post 8vo, cloth, 4s. fid.8 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. DR. BARCLAY. 1 I. A MANUAL OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, Us. 6d. ir. MEDICAL EREOES.—Fallacies connected Avith the Application of the Inductive Method of Reasoning to the Science of Medicine. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. GOUT AND RHEUMATISM "iN RELATION TO DISEASE OF THE HEART. Po.st 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. BASHAM. ON DROPSY, AND ITS CONNECTION WITH DISEASES OF THE KIDNEYS, HEART, LUNGS AND LIVER. With 16 Plates. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. i DR. T. HERBERT BARKER, M.D., F.R.S., &, MR. ERNEST EDWARDS B.A PHOTOGRAPHS OF EMINENT MEDICAL MEN, with brief I Analytical Notices of their Works. Vol. I. (24 Portraits), 4to. cloth, 24s. j DR. BARLOW. | A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second ' Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 12s. 6d. i DR. BARNES. ^ THE PHYSIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PLACENTA 1 PREVIA; being the Lettsomian Lectures on Midwiferj- for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. BASCOME. A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC PESTILENCES, FROM THE EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, 8s. MR. H. F. BAXTER, M.R.C.S.L. ON ORGANIC POLARITY; showing a Connexion to exist between Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. BATEMAN. MAGNACOPIA: a Practical Library of Profitable Knowledge, commu- nicating the general Minutite of Chemical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the generality of Secret Foms of Preparations. Third Edition. 18mo. Gs. MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient. Post 8vo. ? cloth, 7s. Gr/. II. I HEALTH AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2.s-. OV. ^ — i^^^^^_t tsf ^ • MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. , af ^ DR. BEALE, F.R.S. URINE URINAEY DEPOSITS, AND CALCULI: and on the Treatment of Urinary Diseases. Numerous Engravings. Second Edition, much Enlarged. Post 8to. cloth, f)s. 6"rf. THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Third Edition. With 58 Plates. 8vo. cloth, 16s. in. ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, URINAEY DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied r •\ratMi-» tvith dfisprintive Lettercress, 8vo. cloth, 9s. Gd, Uilir\J>j±xtj^ (liiu. vy^j-^w w-M-.^. 7 o 1 from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress, 8vo. cloth, 9s. 6d. MR. BEASLEY. I. THE BOOK OF PRESCRIPTIONS; containing 3000 Prescriptions. Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English and Foreign. Third Edition. 18mo. cloth, 6s. II. THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL EECEIPT-BOOK: comprising a i copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent and Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics, Hair Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments; Trade ^ Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c.; with useful Memoranda and Tahles. Sixth Edition, 18mo, cloth, 6s. III. THE POCKET FOEMULARY AND SYNOPSIS OF THE \ BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPCEIAS; comprising standard and approved Formulae for the Preparations and Compounds employed in Medical Practice. Eighth Edition, corrected and enlarged. 18mo. cloth, Gs. DR. HENRY BENNET. A PRACTICAL TREATISEON INFLAMMATION AND OTHER DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Fourth Edition, revised,-with Additions. 8vo. cloth, 16s. II. A REYIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE (1856) OF UTERINE PATHOLOGY. 8vo, cloth, 4s, III. WINTER IN THE SOUTH OF EUROPE; OR, MENTONE, THE RIVIERA, CORSICA, SICILY, AND BIARRITZ, AS WINTER CLIMATES. Third Edition, with numerous Plates, Maps, and Wood Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, PROFESSOR BENTLEY, F.L.S. A MANUAL OF BOTANY. With nearly 1,200 Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. DR. BERNAYS. NOTES FOR STUDENTS IN CHEMISTRY; being a Syllabus com- piled from the Manuals of Miller, Fownes, Berzelius, Gerhardt, Gorup-Bcsanez, &c. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. ^g^^ 3^10 MESSRS. CnURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIOKS. . . — nT>TTTnT)T) A VV ^^^^"^ HEATHER BIGG. UKIHOI EAXY: the Mcclianical Treatment of Deformities, Debilities, and Deficiencies of the Human Frame. With Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. ' DR. S. B. BIRCH, M.D., M.R.G.P. I. OXYGEN: its action, use, and value in the tkeatment OF VARIOUS DISEASES OTHERWISE INCURABLE OR VERY INTRACTABLE. Second Edition. Post (ivo. cloth, Ss. Gd. CONSTIPATED BOWELS : the Various Causes and the Different Means of Cure. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. Cd. UEIMEY DEPOSITS T^^IME^ DIAGNOSIS, PATHOLOGY, AND THERAPEUTICAL INDICATIONS. With Engravings. Fifth Edition Edited by E. Lloyd Birkett, M.D. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. lid. MR. BISHOP, F.R.S. ON DEFORMITIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, their Pathology and Treatment. With Engravings on AVood. 8vo. cloth, lOs. ° ON AETICULATE SOUNDS, AND ON THE CAUSES AND CURE OF IMPEDIMENTS OF SPEECH. 8vo. cloth, 4s. \^ PEACTICAL TEEATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDEEN t AND INFANTS AT THE BREAST. Translated from the French of M. Bodchut, ^ with Notes and Additions. 8vo. cloth. 20s. ' ' MR. BLAINE. ^ OUTLINES OF THE VETEEINAEY AET; OE, A TEEATISE ON THE ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND DISEASES OF THE HORSE, NEAT CATTLE, AND SHEEP. Seventh Edition. By Charles Steel, I\LRC.V.S.L. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 18s. MR. BLOXAM. CHEMISTEY, INOEGANIC AND OEGANIC; with Experiments and a Comparison of Equivalent and Molecular Formula:. With 276 Engravings on A\"ood. 8vo. cloth, IGs. "~ DR. BOURGUIGNON. ON THE CATTLE PLAGUE; Oil, CONTAGIOUS TYPHUS IN JIORNED CATTLE: its History, Origin, Description, and Treatment. Post 8vo. 5s. MR. JOHN E. BOWMAN, Sc MR. C. L. BLOXAM. I. PEACTICAL CHEMISTEY, including Analysis. With numerous Illus- trations on Wood. Fifth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, Cs. Gd. II. MEDICAL CHEMISTEY; with illustrations on "Wood. Fourth Edition, carefully revised. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Cs. C(/. DR. JAMES BRIGHT. ON DISEASES OF THE HEAET, LUNGS, & AIE PASSAGES; with a Review of the several Climates rccommendod in these Affections. Third Edi- tion. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. -^-&[ 3^§ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 11 — i^^^t f ^ ■ ^ ^ DR. BRINTON, F.R.S. I. THE DISEASES OF THE STOMACH, with an introduction on its Anatomy and Phj-siology; being Lectures delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Second Edition. Ovo. cloth, 10s. 6d. ii. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Edited by Dr. Buzzard. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. • MR. BERNARD E. BRODHURST, F.R.C.S. I. CURVATUEES OF THE SPINE: their Causes, Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition. Roy. 8vo. cloth, with Engravings, 7s. 6d. ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CLUBFOOT AND ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS involving the TIBIO-TARSAL ARTICULATION. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. III. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF THE JOINTS INVOLVING ANCHYLOSIS, and on the TREATMENT for the RESTORATION of MOTION. Third Edition, much enlarged, 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. /5> MR. BROOKE, M.A., M.B., F.R.S. , ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. Based on the Work of V/ the late Dr. Golding Bird. Sixth Edition. With 700 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. T. L. BRUNTON, B.SC, M.B. ON DIGITALIS. With some Observations on the Urine. Fcajo. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d, MR. THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C.S. ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. THE SURGICAL DISEASES OF CHILDREN. The Lettsomian Lectures, delivered March, 1863. Post 8vo. clotli, 5s. III. CLINICAL SURGERY. Parts I. to VII. Svc, 35. Qd. each. DR. BUCKLE, M.D., L.R.C.P.LOND. VITAL AND ECONOMICAL STATISTICS OF THE HOSPITALS. INFIRMARIES, &c., OF ENGLAND AND WALES. Royal 8vo. 6s. DR. JOHN CHARLES BUCKNILL, F.R.S., So DR. DANIEL H. TUKE A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: containing the History, Nosology, Description, Statistics, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Insanity. Second Edition. 8yo. cloth, 15s. DR. BUDD, F.R.S. ^ ON DISEASES OF THE LIVER. I Illustrated with Coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8v9. cloth, IGs. I ON THE ORGANIC DISEASES AND FUNCTIONAL DIS- ORDERS OF THE STOMACH. 8vo. cloth, 9s.12 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS* PUBLICATIONS. MR. CALLENDER, F.R.C.S. FEMORAL EUPTUEE: Anatomy of the Parts concenied. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 4s. DR. JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. Third Edition, hy Dr. Glover. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. ON THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN PREVENTING DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., Gs. THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6(^. «v^.w%vw>^~v>.-.^« DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous iiius- trations on Steel and Wood. Sixth Edition. Edited by Mr. Henry Power. 8vo. cloth, 26s. II. A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY. With 252 illustrations on steel and Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d, III. THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REYELATIONS. With more than 400 Engravings on Steel and Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Bvo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. JOSEPH PEEL CATLOW, M.R.C.S. ON THE PRINCIPLES OF J^STHETIC MEDICINE; or the Natural Use of Sensation and Desire in the Maintenance of Health and the Treatment of Disease. 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. CHAMBERS. LECTURES, CHIEFLY CLINICAL. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, Us. THE INDIGESTIONS OR DISEASES OF THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS FUNCTIONALLY TREATED. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6rf. SOME OF THE EFFECTS OF" THE CLIMATE OF ITALY. Crown 8vo. cloth, ^s. 6rf. ^ DR. CHANCE, M.B. YIRCHOW'S CELLULAR PATHOLOGY, AS BASED UPON PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With 144 Enirrav. ings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 16s. MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. THE TREATMENT OF OBSTINATE ULCERS AND CUTA- NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Third Edition. Post Bvo. cloth, 3s. C(/. II. VARICOSE VEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- tive and Curative. Second Edition, Post Bvo. cloth, 3s. 6d,I MESSES. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 13 ^ • >-> ^ ,._ ~ " MR. PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, F.R.C.S. ADYICE TO A MOTHER ON TPIE MANAGEMENT OF HER CHILDREN. Ninth Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. ADVICE TO A WIFE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HER OWN HEALTH. With an Introductory Chapter, especially addressed to a Young Wife. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. LE GROS CLARK, F.R.C.S. OUTLINES OF SURGERY ; being an Epitome of the Lectures on the Principles and the Practice of Surgery delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 6s. MR. JOHN CLAY, M.R.C.S. KIWISCH ON DISEASES OF THE OYARIES: Translated,by permission, from the last German Edition of his Clinical Lectures on the Special Patho- logy and Treatment of the Diseases of Women. With Notes, and an Appendix on the Operation of Ovariotomy. Royal 12mo. cloth, 16s. DR. COCKLE, M.D. ON INTRA-THORAGIC CANCER. 8vo. 6.. Gd. MR. COLLIS, M.B.DUB., F.R.C.S.I. ] THE DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF CANCER AND 1 THE TUMOURS ANALOGOUS TO IT. With coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. | DR. CONOLLY. THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOVERNMENT OF LUNATIC ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. Post8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. COOLEY. COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLE5IENT TO THE PHARJIACOPCEIAS. THE CYCLOPiEDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, PRO- CESSES, AND COLLATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, MANU- FACTURES, PROFESSIONS, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, PHARMACY, AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY; designed as a General Book of Reference for tlie Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Fourth and greatly enlarged Edition, 8vo. cloth, 28s. MR. W. WHITE COOPER. ON WOUNDS AND INJURIES OF THE EYE. illustrated by 17 Coloured Figures and 41 Woodcuts. 8vo, cloth, 12s. ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED "siGHT, IMPAIRED VISION, AND THE MEANS OF ASSISTING SIGHT. With 31 Illustrations on Wood, Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d.MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. —3^ SIR ASTLEY COOPER, BART., F.R.S. ON THE STEUCTTJEE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS. With 24 Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to., 20s. MR. COOPER. A DICTIONARY OF PEACTICAL STJEGERY AND ENCYCLO- P^DIA OF SURGICAL SCIENCE. New Edition, brought down to the present time. By Samuel A. Lane, F.R.C.S., assisted by various eminent Surgeons. Vol. I., 8vo. cloth, £1. OS. MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. A EEPOET ON SOME IMPORTANT POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. Ovo. cloth, 5s. DR. COTTON. PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE; OE, THE PHYSICAL SIGNS OF CONSUMPTION. Third Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. MR. COULSON. ON DISEASES OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE GLAND. I New Edition, revised. In Preparation. Sf MR. WALTER COULSON, F.R.O.S, § STONE IN THE BLADDER : With Special Reference to its Prevention, ^ Early Sj'mptoms, and Treatment by Lithotrity. 8vo. cloth, 64-. MR. WILLIAM CRAIG, L.F.P.S., GLASGOW. ,^ ON THE INFLUENCE OF VARIATIONS OF ELECTRIC l\ TENSION AS THE REMOTE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC AND OTHER DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. MR. CURLING, F.R.S. OBSERYATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Gd. jj ' A PEACTICAL TREATISE ON" DISEASES OF THE TESTIS, SPERMATIC CORD, AND SCROTUM. Third Edition, with Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. WILLIAM DALE, M.D.LOND. A COMPENDIUM OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND MORBID ANATOMY. With Plates, 12mo. cloth, 7s. DR. DALRYMPLE, M.R.O.P., F.R.O.S. THE CLIMATE OF EGYPT: METEOROLOGICAL AND MEDL CAL OBSERVATIONS, with Practical Hints for Invalid Travellers. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.O.S. PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE. Complete in Nine Fasciculi: L imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bound morocco, gilt tops, 9/. 15s. S DR. HERBERT DAVIES. ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE^^m^^- j^-^J^ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 15 % — — 3«-^ DR. D A V E Y. THE GANGLIONIC NERYOUSSYSTEM: its structure, Functions, and Diseases. 8vo. cloth, 9s, ii. ON THE NATURE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OF IN- SANITY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. HENRY DAY, Nl.D., Wl.R.C.P. CLINICAL HISTORIES ; with Comments. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Gd. MR. DIXON. A GUIDE TO THE PRACTICAL STUDY OE DISEASES OE THE EYE. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. DOBELL. DEMONSTRATIONS OE DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. LECTURES ON THE GERMS AND YESTIGES OE DISEASE, and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease by Periodical Examinations. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. m. 4 ON TUBERCULOSIS: ITS NATURE, CAUSE, AND TREAT- I ^ MENT; with Notes on Pancreatic Juice. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6o?. I LECTURES ON WINTER COUGH (CATARRH, BRONCHITIS, f T EMPHYSEMA, ASTHMA); with an Appendix on some Principles of Diet in m V Disease. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. y i LECTURES ON THE TRUE EIRST STAGE OE CONSUME- I TION. Crown Bvo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. The Jacksokian Pkize Essay for 1850. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. DRUITT, F.R.O.S. THE SURGEON'S YADE-MECUM; with numerous Engravings on Wood. Ninth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6cZ. MR. DUNN, F.R.O.S. PSYCHOLOGY—PHYSIOLOGICAL, 4s.; MEDICAL, 3s. SIR JAMES EYRE, M.D. THE STOMACH AND ITS DIEEICULTIES. Fifth Edition. Fcap. Bvo. cloth, 2s. 6d. jj- PRACTICAL REMARKS ON ' SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gd. V )f DR. FAYRER, M.D., F.R.C.S. CLINICAL SURGERY IN INDIA, with Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 16s ■ 3«-il^m^ ^ . 16 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. - g>t ]o » DR. r-ENWICK. THE MOHBD STATES OF 'tHE STOMACH AND DUO- DENUM, AND THEIR RELATIONS TO THE DISEASES OF OTHER ORGANS. With 10 Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12;.'. ON SCEOFULA AND CONSUMPTION, acrgyman's Sore Throat, Catarrh, Croup, Bronchitis, Astlmia. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. Cd. 1 SIR WILLIAM FERGUSSON, BART., F.R.S. A SYSTEM OE PEACTICAl''SURGERY; Avith uumerous iiius- trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. LECTURES ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY DURING THE PRESENT CENTURY. With numerous Engrarings. 8to. cloth, 10s. 6d. SIR JOHN FIFE, F.R.C.S. AND MR. URQUHART. MANUAL OF THE TURKISH BATH. Heat a Mode of Cure and a Source of Strength for Slen and Animals. AVith Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. FLOWER, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. DIAGRAMS OF THE NERYES OF THE HUMAN BODY, . exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various ^1 Regions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. Folio, containing Six ^ Plates, 14s. Y DR. BALTHAZAR FOSTER, M.D., M.R.C.P. ^ THE USE OF THE SPHYGM06RAPH IN THE INTESTI- V GATION OF DISEASE. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 2s. Grf. ^ MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. A MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY; Avith 187 illustrations on Wood. Ninth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. Edited by H. Benoe Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. Hofstann, Ph.D., F.R.S. CHEMISTRY, AS EXEMPLIFYING THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF GOD. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. INTRODUCTION TO QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Post Svo. doth, 2^. DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. CHANGE OF CLIMATI]; cousidcred as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- monary, and other Chronic Affections; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of Residence for Invalids, at different Seasons of the Year. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6rf. DR. W. FRAZER. ELEMENTS OF MATERIA MEDICA; containing the Chemistry and Natural History of Drugs—their Effects, Doses, and Adulterations. Second Edition. Ovo. cloth, 10s. 6rf. PROFESSOR FRESENIUS. T A SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, Edited by Li.ovn Bui.i.ock, F.C.S. i • n v Qu.vLiTATiVE. Si.\th Edition, with Coloured Plate illustrating Spectrum Analysis. «vo. cloth, lOs. 6d. Quantitative, Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. —— — fe—$ig(>:*^—" ' ______—^i^^^^-^ p MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 17 ^^ DR. FULLER. ON DISEASES OE THE LMGS AND AIE PASSAGES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ON DISEASES OE THE HEAET AND GEEAT YESSELS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. M. III. ON EHEUMATISM, EHEUMATIC GOUT, AND SCIATICA: their Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatment. Thu-d Edition. Cvo. cloth, 12s. M. MR. GALLOWAY. THE EIEST STEP IN CHEMISTEY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Ovo. cloth, 6s.6rf. ii. A KEY TO THE EXEECISES CONTAINED IN ABOYE. Fcan. Bvo., "is. Co?. jjj ^ THE SECOND STEP IN CHEMISTEY; or, the student's Guide to the Higher Branches of the Science. With Engravings. fJvo. cloth, 10s. IV. 1 ^»iJ;,o?£.Q™™yE ANALYSIS. FounhEcmion. f CHEMICAL TABLES. On Five Large Sheets, for School and Lecture I Rooms. Second Edition. 4.«. ({rl MR. F. J. GANT, F.R.C.S. THE PEINCIPLES OE SUEGEEY : Clinical, Medical, and Opera- tive. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 18s. THE IKRITABLE BLADDER •■ i,, auscs a„a Crativc T,oatmcBt. becond Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. SIR DUNCAN GIBB, BART., M.D. ON DISEASES OE THE THEOAT AND WINDPIPE, as cToth l5s L Edition. With 116 Engraving,,. Post 8vo. THE ' LAEYNGOSCOPE IN DISEASES OF THE THEOAT o"o!cktt''5r' " iTl™-' ^"!'^^e-d, with Engravings. Crow,; ON THE NATUEE, PEl5vL%im"f REATMENT AND CHEP OF SPINAL CURVATUB1.;S and DEFORMITIES of tli cHEST^^^^^ I IMBS wjthout ARTIFICIAL SUPPORTS or any MEGHAN CAT APPLll™S: Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. cloth 5s. xrx i^i^i^ojio. Rooms. Second Edition. 4s. 6rf MR. J. SAMPSON GAMGEE HISTOEY OE A SUCCESSFUL CASE OF AMPUTATION AT . THE HIP-.IOINT (the limb 48-in. in circumference, 99 pounds weioht) With 4 M Photographs. 4to cloth, 10s. Qd. r o / m X DR. GORDON, M.D., C.B. AEMY HYGIENE. 8vo. doth, 20*. I CHIM, FEOM A MEDICAL POINT OF YIFW • m i<5Rn ^ AND 1861; WithaChapteronVgasaldls aSWta^^^^^ 8viyolh' loi 6rf I ' ' —-—3^^^>1p^^ 3^ MESSRS. CIITJRCniLL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. ^ • v.^ je-^ \ DR. QAIRDNER. | ON GOUT ; its History, its Causes, aud its Cure. Fourtli Edition, Post 8vo. cloth, 8^-. 6d. " | DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. ! THE MINERAL SPRINGS OF YICHY : their Efficacy in the Treatment of Gout, Indigestion, Gravel, &c. 8vo. cloth, 3s, ON SUDDEN DEATH. Post 8vo., 2*. ed. DR. GRAVES M.D., F.R.S. STUDIES IN PHYSIOLOGY AND MEDICINE. Edited by Dr. Stokes. With Portrait and Memoir. 8vo. cloth, lis. DR. S. C. GRIFFITH, M.D. ON DERMATOLOGY AND THE TREATMENT OE SKIN DISEASES BY MEANS OF HERBS, IN PLACE OF ARSENIC' AND MERCURY. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. MR. GRIFFITHS. CHEMISTRY OF THE POUR SEASONS-Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s, 6d, "— THE SIMPLE TREATMENT "of MSEASE; deduced from the Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. 18mo. cloth, 4s. DR." GUY AND DR. JOHN HARLEY. HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S YADE-MECUM; OR, MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. Seventh Edition, consider- % ahly enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6c/. GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. Third Series. Vol. XIIL, 8vo. Is. 6d. DR. HABERSHON, F.R.C.P. ON DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN, comprising those of the Stomach and other Parts of the Alimentary Canal, (Esophagus, Stomach, Ca.'cum, Intestines, and Peritoneum. Second Edition, with Plates. 8vo. cloth, 14s. ON THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY IN THE TREATMENT OF DISEASE. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. Crf. DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. TORQUAY IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A RESORT FOR PULMONARY INVALIDS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. I. PRONE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING AND OTHER FORMS OF APNffiA OR SUSPENDED RESPIRATION. PRACTrCAtoW.YATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MEDI- | CINE. Sftonft Scv(t3. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. Gd. f^lS^^ — ~~MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 19 —_ MR. HARDWICH. A MANUAL OF PHOTOGMPHIC CHEMISTEY. with Engravings. Seventh Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. J. BOWER HARRISON, M.D., M.R.C.P. LETTEES TO A TOMG PEACTITIONER ON THE DIS- EASES OF CHILDREN. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. ir. ON THE CONTAMINATION OF WATER BY THE POISON OF LEAD, and its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. HARTWIG. ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. II. ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN. Fcap. 8vo., 2s, 6d. DR. A. H. HASSALL. THE URINE, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE; being an Ex- planation of the Composition of the Urine, and of the Pathology and Treatment of Urinary and Renal Disorders. Second Edition. With 79 Engravines (23 Coloured') Post 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. o b v ^ THE MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY IN- HEALTH AND DISEASE. Illustrated with Several Hundred DrawinRs in . Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, £1. 10s. MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R.C.S. CLIMATE WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Sketch of the Opinions of the most celebrated Ancient and Modern Writers with regard to the Influence cloth"* Weather m producing Disease. With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo, DR. HEADLAND, M.D., F.R.C.P. ON THE ACTION OF MEDICINES IN THE SYSTEM Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. uj.oj.UiTi. ^ SSai^S f^'l^^.^?^^; com'^-ehending such Information on Medical 8vo clo?h, 5^ ^^"""'''^ S-^'^ond Thousand. Foolscap DR. HEALE. ^ T^Ef 21 r^^^ PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY OF IHL LUNGS. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. A TREATISE ON VITAL CAUSES, s™. cioih, 9. T,20 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. © MR. CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S. I. PRACTICAL ANATOMY: a Manual of Dissections. With numerous Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. A MANUAL OF MINOR SURGERY AND BANDAGING, FOR THE USE OF HOUSE-SURGEONS, DRESSERS, AND JUNIOR PRAC- TITIONERS. With Illustrations. Third Edition. Fcap, 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. HIGGINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.E. A PRACTICAL ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF SILVER IN THE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND ULCERS. Third Edition, 8vo. cloth, 6s. THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN KELATION TO THE HIGHER SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Studies, and on the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life, Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. MR. J. A. HINGESTON, M.R.C.S. TOPICS OF THE DAY, MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND SCIENTIFIC. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. HODGES. A' THE NATURE, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF PUER- ] PERAL CONVULSIONS, Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. j DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, 6s. A MANUAL OF OPHTHALMOSCOPIC SURGERY; beins a Practical Treatise on the Use of the Ophthalmoscope in Diseases of the Eye. Thud Edition. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, F R.C.S. I. HUMAN OSTEOLOGY : with Dates, showing tlic Attachments of the Muscles, Third Edition, avo. cloth, 16s, A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY With Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. MR BARNARD HOLT, F.R.C.S. ^ ON THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. Third Edition, Enlarged. 8vo, cloth, Os. II'^l^^- — J^--*^^ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 21 ^ 3^ DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. SUGGESTIONS FOR THE EUTUEE PEOYISION OF CEIMI- NAL LUNATICS. 8vo, cloth, 5*. 6d. DR. P. HOOD. THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEYER; also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. JOHN HORSLEY. A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post 8vo, cloth, 6s, 6d. DR. JAMES A. HORTON, M.D. PHYSICAL AND MEDICAL CLIMATE AND METEOROLOGY OF THE WEST COAST OF AFRICA. 8vo. cloth, 10s. MR. LUKE- HOWARD, F.R.S. ESSAY ON THE MODIFICATIONS OF CLOUDS. Third Edition, ^ hy W. D. and E. Howard. With 6 Lithographic Plates, from Pictures by Kenyon, 4to. cloth, 10s. 6c;. DR. HAMILTON HOWE, M.D. A THEORETICAL INQUIRY INTO THE PHYSICAL CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC DISEASES. Accompanied with Tables. 8vo. cloth, 7s. I DR. HUFELAND. | * THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. Second Edition. Edited * by Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6flf. MR. W. CURTIS HUGMAN, F.R.C.S. ON HIP JOINT DISEASE; with reference especially to Treatment by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb. With Plates. Re-issue, enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. HULKE, F.RC.S. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE USE OF THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. Being the Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1859. Royal 8vo. cloth, 8s. ^ , , DR. HENRY HUNT. ON HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION. 8vo. cloth, 5.. MR. G. Y. HUNTER, M.R.C.S. EODY AND MIND : the Nervous System and its Derangements. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 8s. Cd. PROFESSOR HUXLEY, F.R.S. t I LECTURES ON THE ELEMENTS OF COMPARATIYE 1 M ANATOMY.-ON CLASSIFICATON AND THE SKULL. With 111 Illus- trations. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. ^22 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. ^ ^ — f MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, F.R.C.S. ^ A CLINICAL MEMOIR ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE EYE AND EAR, CONSEQUENT ON INHERITED SYPHILIS; with an appended Chapter of Commentaries on the Transmission of Syphilis from Parent to Offspring, and its more remote Consequences. With Plates and Woodcuts, 8vo. cloth, 9i. DR. INMAN, M.R.O.P. ON MYALGIA: ITS NATURE,'' CAUSES, AND TREATMENT; being a Treatise on Painful and other Affections of the Muscular System. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. FOUNDATION FOR A NEW THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, lOs. DR. JAGO, M.D.OXON., A.B.CANTAB. ENTOPTICS, WITH ITS USES IN PHYSIOLOGY AND MEDICINE. With 54 Engravings. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. J. H. JAMES, F.R.C.S. I PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS'on THE OPERATIONS FOR I STRANGULATED HERNIA. 8vo. cloth, 5s. ON THE DISTINCTIYE CHARACTERS OF EXTERNAL INFLAMMATIONS, AND ON INFLAMMATORY OR SYMPATHETIC FEVER. 8vo, cloth, 5s, »«»..>v«vw..,ww«^ DR. PROSSER JAMES, M.D. SORE-THROAT: ITS NATURE, VARIETIES, AND TREAT- i) MENT ; including the Use of the LARYNGOSCOPE as an Aid to Diagnosis. Second Edition, with numerous Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. JENOKEN, M.D., M.R.O.P. THE CHOLERA : ITS ORIGIN, IDIOSYNCRACY, AND TREATMENT. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. Gd. DR. HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.C.P. CLINICAL OBSERVATIONS ON FUNCTIONAL NERVOUS DISORDERS. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. H. BENCE JONES. M.D., F.R.S. LECTURES ON SOME OF THE APPLICATIONS OF CHEMISTRY AND MECHANICS TO PATHOLOGY AND THERA- PEUTICS. 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., &, DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. JAMES JONES, M.D., M.R.O.P. ON THE USE OF PERCHLORIDE OF IRON AND OTHER CHALYBEATE SALTS IN THE TREATISIENT OF CONSUMPTION. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. Gd.' 3C' ^"^^l MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. — MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PEACTICE OE OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; with Nine Coloured Plates and ] 73 ■\\^ood Engravings. Third Edition, thoroughly revised. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, I2s. 6d. THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY, AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION. Actonian Prize Essay. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. III. DEFECTS OF SIGHT AND HEAEING: their Natm-e, Causes, Pre- vention, and General Management. Second Edition, with Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6f/. IV. A CATECHISM OF THE lilEDICINE AND SURGEET OF THE EYE AND EAR. For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY OF BODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. Qd. MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN, M.R.C.S. I AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SUEGEEY; WITH A Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Bs. X m MR. JUDD. f A PEACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHI- ,j LIS: including Observations on the Power of the Menstruous Fluid, and of the Dis- ^^ • • charge fi'om Leucorrhoea and Sores to produce Urethritis: with a variety of Examples, " Experiments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, £\. Bs. DR. LAENNEC. A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PERCUSSION. Trans- lated and Edited by J. B. Sharpe, M.R.C.S. .3s. DR. LANE, M.A. MDROPATHY; OR, HYGIENIC MEDICINE. An Explanatory Essay. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, Bs, SIR WM. LAWRENCE, BART., F.R.S. LECTURES ON SURGERY. 8vo. doth, 16.. A TREATISE ON RUPTURES. The Fifth Edition, considerably enlarged, flvo. cloth, IGs. WW A VNWVVV^ VVWI.VW DR. LEARED, M.R.C.P. i IMPERFECT DIGESTION: ITS CAUSES AND TREATMENT, s Fourth Edition. Foolscap Ovo. cloth, 4s.DR. EDWIN LEE. I. <^-ot —— 24 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. ^ 'V i THE EFFECT OF CLIMATE ON TUBERCULOUS DISEASE, j with Notices of the chief Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small Ovo. cloth, 4s. Gd. THE WATERING PLACES OF ENGLAND, CONSIDERED with Reference to their Medical Topography. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Ct/, j THE PRINCIPAL BATHS "oF FRANCE. Fourth Edition. ! Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. THE BATHS OF GERMANY. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. \ THE BATHS OF SWITZERLAND. i2mo. cloth, 3^. 6^. j VI. ! HOMCEOPATHY AND HYDROPATHY IMPARTIALLY AP- I PRECIATED. Fourth Edition. Post Ovo. cloth, 3s. MR. HENRY LEE, F.R.C.S. I. ON SYPHILIS. Second Edition. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10s. ON DISEASES OF THE VEINS,"HiEMORRHOIDAL TUMOURS, AND OTHER AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. CONSULTATIONS IN MIDWIFERY. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4.. Gd. A TREATISE ON THE SPECULUM; with Three Hundred Cases. 8vo. cloth, 4s. (id. jjj CLINICAL REPORTS OF OVARIAN AND UTERINE DIS- EASES, with Commentaries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. Gd. IV. CLINICAL MIDWIFERY: comprising the Histories of 545 Cases of Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, with Commentaries. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. LEISHMAN, M.D., F.F.P.S. THE MECHANISM OF PARTURITION: Au Essay, Historical and Critical. With Engravings, 8vo. cloth, Ss. MR. LISTON, F.R.S. PRACTICAL SURGERY. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22*. MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. ON SOME OF THE MORE OBSCURE FORMS OF NERYOUS AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. Rc-issue, with the Chapter on Galvanism entirely Ro-writton. 'With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 8s. DR. LOGAN, M.D., M.R.C.P.LOND. ON OBSTINATE DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Fcap.8vo.cioth,2^.G<f. fgp^-©^^_ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. 25 -3^— LONDON HOSPITAL. (|) ^ CLINICAL LECTURES AND EEPORTS EY THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL STAFF, With Illustrations. Vols. I. to IV. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Cuf. LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION. WHAT TO OBSERYE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AETER DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gd. MR. HENRY LOWNDES, M.R.C.S. AN ESSAY ON THE MAINTENANCE OE HEALTH. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. — MR. M'CLELLAND, F.L.S., F.G.S. THE MEDICAL TOPOGRAPHY, OR CLIMATE AND SOILS, OF BENGAL AND THE N. W. PROVINCES. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gd. DR. MACLACHLAN, M.D., F.R.C.P.L. THE DISEASES AND INFIRMITIES OF ADVANCED LIFE. Bvo. cloth, 16s. DR. A. C. MACLEOD, M.R.C.P.LOND. ACHOLIC DISEASES ; comprising JauQclice, Diarrhoea, Dysentery, and Cholera. Post 8vo, cloth, 5s. 6d. DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S.E. OUTLINES OF SURGICAL DIAGNOSIS. 8vo. doth, 12.. Gd. NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. DR. WM. MACLEOD, F.R.C.P.EDIN. THE THEORY OF THE TREATMENT OF DISEASE ADOPTED AT BEN RHYDDING, Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. Gd. MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. SURGICAL ANATOMY, a Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- cipal Regions of the Human Body. Second Edition, folio, cloth, £3. 12s.; half-morocco, £4. 4s. ' II ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. This Work is Uniform with "Surgical Anatomj';" folio, cloth, £2.10s.; half-morocco, £2. 17s. MR. MACNAMARA. ON DISEASES OF THE EYE ; referring principally to those Affections requiring the aid of the Ophthalmoscope for their Diagnosis. With coloured plates, 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. DR. MONICOLL, M.R.C.P. A HAND-BOOK FOR SOUTHPORT, MEDICAL & GENERAL; with Copious Notices of the Natural History of the District. Second Edition. Post Bvo. cloth, 3s. Gd. ^, , DR. MARCET, F.R.S. ON CHRONIC ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION; with an inquiry i INTO THE INFLUENCE OF THE ABUSE OF ALCOHOL AS A PRE- A y DISPOSING CAUSE OF DISEASE. Second Edition, much enlarged. Foolscap M ^ 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gi. ^*^ — — -3«H MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. ^ ^ ll DR. J. MACPHERSON, M.D. | CHOLERA IN ITS HOME; with a Sketch of the Pathology and Treat- ment of the Disease. Crown 8vo. cloth, Ss. DR. MARKHAM. DISEASES OF THE HEAETTHEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, Gs. SKOIJA ON AUSCULTATIOn"'aND PERCUSSION. Post 8vo. cloth, O's. BLEEDING AND CHANGE IN TYPE OF DISEASES. Gulstonian Lectures for lOGi. Crown 8vo. 2s. Qd. SIR RANALD MARTIN, K.C.B., F.R.S INFLUENCE OF TROPICAL CLIMATES IN PRODUCING THE ACUTE ENDEMIC DISEASES OF EUROPEANS; including Practical Observations on their Chronic Sequelas under the Influences of the Climate of Europe. Second Edition, much enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 20s. MR. C. F. MAUNDER, F.R.C.S. OPERATIYE SURGERY. With 158 Engravings. Post 8yo. Qs. DR. MAYNE, M.D., LL.D. l\ AN EXPOSITORY LEXICONOF THE TERMS, ANCIENT AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE. 8yo. cloth, £2.10s. II. W A MEDICAL YOCABULARY; or, an Explanation of all Names, \ Synonyraes, Terms, and Phrases used in Medicine and the relative branches of IHedical o Science. Second Edition. Fcap. Ovo, cloth, 8s. 6c/. ^ DR. MERYON, M.D., F.R.C.P. PATHOLOGICAL AND PRACTICAL RESEARCHES ON THE VARIOUS FORMS OF PARALYSIS. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. MILLINGEN. ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE IN- SANE; with Considerations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth, 4s. 6c/. DR. W. J. MOORE, M.D. HEALTH IN THE TROPICS; or, Sanitary Art applied to Europeans in India. 8vo. cloth, .Os. n- A MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF INDIA. Fcap. Svo. doth, 5*. DR. JAMES MORRIS, M.D.LOND. GERMINAL MATTER ANDTHE CONTACT THEORY: An Essay on the Morbid Poisons. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6d. I IRRITjVDILITY : Popular aud Practical Sketches of Common ]\rorbid States 1 and Conditions bordering on Disease; with Hints for Management, Alleviation,and Cure. ^ Crown 8vo. clotli, 4s. Gd. ^S^j-s- ■MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. -«-&£ '■ 5^-^ PROFESSOR MULDER, UTRECHT. THE CHEMISTRY OE WINE. Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F,R.S. Fcap. 8vo. clotb, 6s. DR. W. MURRAY, M.D., M.R.O.P. EMOTIONAL DISORDERS OE THE SYMPATHETIC SYS- TEM OF NERVES. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. MUSHET, M.B., M.R.O.P. ON APOPLEXY, AND ALLIED AEEECTIONS OE THE BRAIN. 8vo. cloth, 7s. MR. NAYLER, F.R.O.S. ON THE DISEASES OE THE SKIN. With Plates. Svo. doth, lOs. 6d. DR. BIRKBECK NEVINS. THE PRESCRIBER'S ANALYSIS OE THE BRITISH PHAR- MACOPEIA of 1867. 32mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. THOS. NIOHOLSON, M.D. ON YELLOW EEYER; comprising the History of that Disease as it appeared in the Island of Antigua. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. DR. NOAD, PH.D., F.R.S. THE INDUCTION COIL, being a Popular Explanation of the Electrical X Principles on which it is constructed. Third Edition. "With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. ^ cloth, 3s. — H- DR. NOBLE. ^ ^ THE HUMAN MIND IN ITS RELATIONS WITH THE f ¥ BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM, Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. ^ MR. NUNNELEY, F.R.O.S.E. ON THE ORGANS OE YISION: theik anatomy and phy- siology. With Plates, Svo. cloth, ISs. A TREATISE ON THE NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. OPPERT, M.D. HOSPITALS, INEIRMARIES/'AND DISPENSARIES; their Construction, Interior Arrangement, and Management, with Descriptions of existing Institutions. With 58 Engravings. Royal 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. YISCERAL AND HEREDITA^^PHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5.. MR. LANGSTON PARKER. THE MODERN TREATMENT OE SYPHILITIC DISEASES, both Primary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Fourth Edition, 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. PARKES, F.R.S., F.R.O.P. A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL^" HYGIENE; intended especially for the Medical Officers of the Army. With Plates and Woodcuts. 2nd Edition, 8vo. cloth, I6s. TI. THE URINE: its composition in health and disease, AND UNDER THE ACTION OF REMEDIES. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 3^-*5a 28 MESSRS. CHUECHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. f j ^£ £ DR. PARKIN, M.D., F.R.C.S, < THE ANTIDOTAL TREATMENT AND PRETENTION OF I THE EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. II. THE CAUSATION AND PREVENTION OF DISEASE; with the Laws regulating the Extrication of Malaria from the Surface, and its Diffusion in the surrounding Air. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. JAMES PART, F.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, for the Registration of important Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of Hospital Practice. Second Edition. 2s. 6d. DR. PATTERSON, M.D. EGYPT AND THE NILE AS A WINTER RESORT FOR PULMONARY AND OTHER INVALIDS. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. DR. PAVY, M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P. I ^ DIABETES: RESEARCHES ON ITS NATURE AND TREAT- [ ^ MENT. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. ^ f DIGESTION: ITS DISORDERS AND THEIR TREATMENT. % ^ 8vo. cloth, 8«. 6c/. ^ ^ f A DR. PEACOCK, M.D., F.R.C.P. " I» " ON MALFORMATIONS OF THE HUMAN HEART. With Original Cases and Illustrations. Second Edition. With 8 Plates. 8vo. cloth, lOs. ON SOME OF THE CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF YALYULAR DISEASE OF THE HEART. V^ith Engi-avings. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. W. H. PEARSE, M.D.EDIN. NOTES ON HEALTH IN CALCUTTA AND BRITISH EMIGRANT SHIPS, including Ventilation, Diet, and Disease. Fcap. 8vo. 2$. DR. PEET, M.D., F.R.C.P. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF ]\[EDICINE Designed chiefly for Students of Indian Medical Colleges. 8vo. cloth, ICs. DR. PEREIRA, F.R.S. SELECTA E PRi^SCRIPTIS. Fourteenth Edition. 24mo. cloth, 5*. ^ DR. PICKFORD. t i HYGIENE; or. Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- - sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness, Secretions, Excrc- Vg tions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &e. Vol. I. 8vo. cloth, 9s.■ ^ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. — — PROFESSOR PIRRIE, F.R.S.E. THE PRINCIPLES AND PEACTICE OF SUPxGERY. With numerous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ■24s. PROFESSOR PlRRlE & DR. KEITH. ACUPRESSURE : an excellent Method of arresting Surgical Hemorrhage and of accelerating the healing of Wounds. JWith Engravings. 8vo. cloth, os. DR. PIRRIE, M.D. ON HAT ASTHMA, AND THE AFFECTION TERMED HAY FEVER. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Ss. 6d. PROFESSORS PLATTNER & MUSPRATT. THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. HENRY POWER, F.R.C.S., M.B.LOND. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL DISEASES OF THE EYE : With an Account of their Symptoms, Pathology and Treatment. Twelve Coloured Plates. Ovo. cloth, 20s. DR. HENRY F. A. PRATT, M.D., M.R.C.P. THE GENEALOGY OF CREATION, newly Translated from the I Unpointed Hebrew Text of the Book of Genesis, showing the General Scientific Accuracy ^ of the Cosmogony of Moses and the Philosophy of Creation. 8vo. cloth, 14s. ^ t ON ECCENTRIC AND CENTRIC FORCE: a New Theory of Projection. With Engravings. Ovo. cloth, 10s. III. ON ORBITAL MOTION: The OutUnes of a System of Physical Astronomj-. With Diagrams. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. IV. ASTRONOMICAL INYESTIGATIONS. The Cosmical Relations of the Revolution of the Lunar Apsides. Oceanic Tides. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, bs. V. THE ORACLES OF GOD : An Attempt at a Re-interpretation. Part I. The Revealed Cosmos. 8vo. cloth, 10s. THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPCEIA; containmg all the Mcdl- cines in the British Pharmacopccia, arranged in Classes according to their Action, with their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fifth Edition. 32mo. cloth, 2s. G(/.; roan tuck (for the pocket), 'is. 6d. DR. JOHN ROWLISON PRETTY. AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, the Management of Placenta and Post-partum llajmorrliagc. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. P. C. PRICE, F.R.C.S. AN ESSAY ON EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. With Coloured Plates. With Memoir of the Autlior and Notes by Henry Smith, F.R.C.S. Royal 8vo. cloth, 14s. ^30 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. : . . — J©* MR. LAKE PRICE. i PEOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: a Manual treating of the ^ XT,/-,mT^ PRIESTLEY. ^fSPI^l^?.™ PEYELOPMENT OF THE GEAYID UlJiKUb. 8vo. cloth, Ss. 6rf. TT^/Nr^,^^ RADCLIFFE, F.R.C.P.L. ^^rii???.^AT5S.^PI™IC' SPASMODIC, NEUEALGIC, t1;f S ^f^-l!'™^^^^?^^.^^^ OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, delivered at the Koyal College of Physicians m London. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s, 6d. MR. RA I N E Y. ON THE MODE OF POMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS OF BONE, AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES, by a Process of Mo ecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcan 8vo cloth, 4*. 6d. ^' DR. F. H. RAMSBOTHAM. THE PEINCIPLES AND PEACTICE OF OBSTETEIC MEDI- "^^i^w"^^^ SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel and Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fifth Edition. 8yo. cloth, 22s. g ^ DR. RAMSBOTHAM. C PMCTICAL OBSEEYATIONS ON MID¥IFEEY, with a Selection ot Oases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. , DR. READE, M.B.T.C.D., L.R.C.S I i SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE NEEYOUS SYSTEM i AND A_ CASE OF SYMMETRICAL MUSCULAR ATROPHY ; with other Contributions to the Pathology of the Spinal Marrow. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. PROFESSOR REDWOOD, PH. D A SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHAEMACOPCEIA • a concise but comprehensive Dispensatory, and Manual of Facts and Formula, for the use of Practi- tioners m Medicine and Pharmacy. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 226-. DR. DU BOIS REYMOND- ANIMAL ELECTEICITY; Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. REYNOLDS, M.D.LOND. EPILEPSY: ITS SYMPTOMS, TEEATMENT, AND EELATION TO OTHER CHRONIC CONVULSIVE DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, lOs. THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BEAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES, iivo. cloth, 8s. f DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. S ' ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. \ Being the Astlky Cooper Pkize Essay for 1856". With a Practical Appendix ^ 8vo. cloth, 16s. SIg^^i^^j—— 5^-^^ S MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. 31 3«-^ DR. RITCHIE, M.D. " ON OYAEIAN PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY, with Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. WILLIAM ROBERTS, M.D., F.R.C.P. AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on the Disease hitherto described as ATROPHIE MUSCULAIRE PROGRESSIVE. With Four Plates. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. ROUTH. INFANT FEEDING, AND ITS INFLUENCE ON LIFE; Or, the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Second Edition. Fcap, Ovo. cloth, 6s. DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. THE NATUEE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 8vo.ciotii,i05.6r/. A TREATISE ON DIET ANd"eEGIMEN. Fourth Edition. 2 vols. 12s. post 8vo. cloth. DR. F^OWE. NEEVOUS DISEASES, LIYEE AND STOMACH COM- PLAINTS, LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- ORDERS PRODUCED BY TROPICAL CLIMATES. With Cases. Sixteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. ™^—— DR. ROYLE, F.R.S., AND DR. HEADLAND, M.D. A MANUAL OF MATEEIA MEDICA AND THEEAPEUTICS. With numerous Engi-avings on AVood. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. RYAN, M.D. INFANTICIDE: its law, pkevalence, peevention, and HISTORY. 8vo. cloth, Ss. . ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. A DESCEIPTIYE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM. Vol. I. (1846), Vol. II. (18S1), Vol. III. (1862), 8vo. cloth, 5s. each. ST. GEOEGE'S HOSPITALJREPOETS. Vols. i. & ii. Svo. 7.. 6d. MR. T. P. SALT, BIRMINGHAM. ON DEFOEMITIES AND DEBILITIES OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITIES, AND THE MECHANICAL TREATMENT EMPLOYED IN THE PROMOTION OF THEIR CURE. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 15s. n. ON EUPTUEE: its causes, management, and cuee, and the various Mechanical Contrivances employed for its Relief. With Engravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. ctrnmvr a S'^'-TER, F.R.S. AbiHMA. Second Edition. 8vo. clotb, 10s. tDR. SANKEY, M.D.LOND. LECTUEES ON MENTAL DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 8..32 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. H3< $ DR. SANSOM, M.D.LOND. CHLOIiOFORM : its action and administration, a Hand- book. With Engravings. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. THE AEPtEST AND PREVENTION OF CHOLEEA; being a Guide to the Antiseptic Trcalmcnt. Fca45. 8vo. cloth, 2*. 6J. MR. SAVORY. A COMPENDIUM OE DOMESTIC MEDICINE. AND COMPA- NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST; intended as a Source of Easy Reference for Clergymen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Professional Assistance Seventh Edition. l2mo. cloth, 5s. DR. SCHACHT. THE MICEOSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO VEGETABLE ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by Frederick Cukrey, M.A. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. SCORESBY-JACKSON, IV!.D., F.R.S.E MEDICAL CLIMATOLOGY; or, a Topogi-apliical and Meteorological Description of the Localities resorted to in Winter and Summer by Invalids of various classes both at Home and Abroad. With an Isothermal Chai-t. Post 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. SEMPLE. ^ ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. With some practical Remarks on the Use of the Stethoscope as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. SEYMOUR. ILLUSTRATIONS OF SOME'oE THE PRINCIPAL DIS- EASES OF THE OVARIA: their Sj'mptoms and Treatment; to which are prefixed Observations on the Structure and Functions of those parts in the Human Being and in Animals. On India paper. Folio, ICs. THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF DROPSY; considered especially in reference to the Diseases of the Internal Organs of the Body, which most commonly produce it. 8vo. Sa. DR. SMARTER, M.D., F.R.C.P. THE CLIMATE OF THE SOUTH OF DEVON, AND ITS INFLUENCE UPON HEALTH. Second Edition, with jMaps. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. MR. SHAW, M.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL REMEMBRANCER; Ol{, BOOK OF EMER- GENCIES. Fifth Edition. Edited, with Additions,byJoN.\THANHuTCHiNsoN,F.R.C.S. .S2mo. cloth, 2s. 6d. DR. SHEA, M.D., B.A. A MANUAL OF ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY. With an Appendix of Qtiestions for the B.A. London and other Examinations. With Engravings. Foolscap 3vo. cloth, 5s. 6(1. „„ DR. SHRIMPTON. CHOLERA: ITS SEAT, NATURE, AND TREATMENT, with ?Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. U. J. KAY-3HUTTLEWORTH. A FIRST PRINCIPLES OF JIODERN CHEMISTRY: a Manual ^ of Inorganic Chemistry. Crown 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d.^^^^^ *^ ■ MESSRS. CHUUCHILL & SONS PUBLICATIONS. 33 DR. SIBSON, F.R.S. MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial folio. Fasci- culi I. to VI. 5s. each. DR. E. H. SIEVEKING. ON EPILEPSY AND EPILEPTIFOEM SEIZURES: their Ccauses, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition, Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. SIMMS. A "WINTEE IN PAEIS : being a few Experiences and Observations of French Medical and Sanitary Matters. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. MR. SINCLAIR AND DR JOHNSTON. PEACTICAL MIDWIEEEY: Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- varies, which occurred in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during a period of Seven Years. 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. SIORDET, M.B.LOND., M.R.C.P. MENTONE IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. MR. ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S. GENEEAL DEBILITY AND DEFECTIYE NUTEITION; theii- x Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. SMELLIE. ^ OBSTETEIC PLATES: being a Selection fr om the more Important and Practical Illustrations contained in the Original Work. With Anatomical and Practical Directions. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.O.S. ON STEICTUEE OF THE UEETHEA. Svo. doth, 7^. 6d. H^MOEEHOIDS AND PEOLAPSUS OE THE EECTUM: Their Pathology and Treatment, with especial reference to the use of Nitric Acid. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. THE SUEGEEY OE THE EECTUM. Lettsomian Lectures. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6(1. DR. J. SMITH, M.D„ F.R.C.S.EDIN. HANDBOOK OE DENTAL ANATOMY AND SUEGEEY, FOE THE USE OF STUDENTS AND PRACTITIONERS. Fcap, 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6rf. DR. W. TYLER SMITH. A MANUAL OF OBSTETEICS, THEOEETICAL AND PEAC- TICAL. Illustrated with 186 Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s, 6d. DR. SNOW. ON CHLOEOFOEM AND OTHEE ANESTHETICS: their ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. Uvo, cloth, lOs. (id. 4 Mi=J. J. VOSE SOLOMON, F.R.O.S. I TENSION OF THE EYEBALL; GLAUCOMA; some Account of 1 the Operations practised in the 19th Century. 8vo. cloth, 4s. ^ ' -^J^^l^m^^— _ 34 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. £ — _j<3^ ^ DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO ^ THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. Becquerel and RoDiER. 8vo. cloth, reduced to Us. MR. J. K. SPENDER, M.B.LOND. A MANUAL OP THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF ULCERS AND CUTANEOUS DISEASES OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 8vo. cloth, 4s. MR. BALMANNO SQUIRE, M.B.LOND. CLINICAL LECTURES ON SKIN DISEASES. lUnstrated by Coloured Photographs from Life. Complete in 3G Numhers, price Is. 6(1. each. Nos. T.—XXX. are now ready. A MANUAL OF THE DISEASES OF THE SKIN, illustrated by Coloured Plates of the Diseases, and by Woodcuts of the Parasites of the Skin. Post 8vo. cloth, 24s. j MR. PETER SQUIRE. '| A COMPANION TO THE ^BRITISH PHARMACOPEIA. S, Sixth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. ii. » THE PHARMACOPiEIAS OF THIRTEEN OF THE LONDON HOSPITALS, arranged in Groups for easy Reference and Comparison. 18mo, cloth, 3s. 6d, DR. STEGQALU. A MEDICAL MANUAL PUR APOTHECAEIES' HALL AND OTHER MEDICAL BOARDS. Twelfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. A MANUAL EOR THE COLLEGE OF SURGEONS; intended for the Use of Candidates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. in. FIRST LINES FOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR Ex- amination AT THE pharmaceutical SOCIETY. Second Edition. 18mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. STOWE, M.R.C.S. A TOXICOLOGICAL CHART, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms, Treatment, and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral, Vegetable, and Animal. To which .are added, concise Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. Twelfth Edition, revised. On Sheet, 2s.; mounted on Roller, 5s. MR. FRANCIS SUTTON, F.C.S. A SYSTEMATIC HANDBOOK OF YOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS; or, the Quantitative Estimation of Cliemical Substances by Measure. '\^ ith Engravnigs. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. SWAYNE. i OBSTETRIC APHORISMS FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS I 1^ COMMENCING MIDM^FERY PRACTICE. With Engr.ivingson Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 3s. 6d. ^ ^ 1^^^^MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. 35 — ^ MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.C.S.E. LATERAL CURYATURE OF THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, and Treatment. Ovo. cloth, 4s. ^ SIR ALEXANDER TAYLOR, M.D., F.R.S.E. THE CLIMATE OF PAU; with a Description of the Watering Places of the Pyrenees, and of the Virtues of their respective Mineral Sources in Disease. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR. ALFRED S. TAYLOR, F.R.S. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MEDICAL JURIS- PRUDENCE. With 176 Wood Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 28s. A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Eighth Edition. 'With Engravings. Fcap. 8vo. clorfi, l"2s. 6(/. III. ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JURISPKUDENCE AND MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, I2s. Gd. MR. TEALE. f ON' AMPUTATION BY A LONG AND A SHORT RECTAN- t GULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood, 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.S. ^ CLINICAL LECTURES ON PULMONARY CONSUMPTION; p with additional Chapters by E. Sijies Thompson, M.D. With Plates. Ovo. cloth, 7s. Cd. I DR. THOMAS. { THE MODERN PRACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the Symp- ' toras, Causes, Morbid Appearances, and Treatment of the Diseases of all Climates. Eleventh Edition. Revised by Alcjeunon Frampton, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28s. SIR HENRY THOMPSON, F.R.C.S. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA; its Pathology and Treatment. The Jacksonian Prize Essay for 1852. With Plates. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. THE DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE ; their Pathology and Treat- ment. With Plates. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. III. PRACTICAL LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY; or, An inquiry into the best Modes of removing Stone from thu Bladder. With numerous EnKraviiigs. 8vo. cloth, 9s. Ob, DR. THUDICHUM. A TREATISE ON THE PATHOLOGY OF THE URINE, Including a complete Guide to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, Ms, A TREATISE ON GALL STONES: their Chemistry, Patholo'^y, k and Treatment. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 10s. *~ ^-^.^.^ MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. ^ — ^ D R. Tl LT. ON UTERINE AND OYAEIAN INFLAMMATION, AND ON THE PHYSIOLOGY AND DISEASES OF MENSTRUATION. Third Edition 8vo. cloth, 12s. A HANDBOOK OF UTERINE THERAPEUTICS, AND OF MODERN PATHOLOGY OF DISEASES OF WOMEN. Second Edition- Post 8to. cloth, Gs. nr. THE CHANGE OF LIFE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE: a Practical Treatise on the Nervous and other Affections incidental to Women at the Decline of Life. Second Edition. !ivo. cloth, Gs. DR. GODWIN TIMMS. CONSUMPTION : its True Nature and Successful Treatment. Re-issue, enlarged. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. I ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS, AND ON DROPSIES. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, Cs. MR. TOMES, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF DENTAL SURGERY, with 208 Eugi-avings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. DR. TUNSTALL, M.D., M.R.C.P. THE BATH WATERS : their Uses aud Effects in the Cure and Relief of various Chronic Diseases. Fourth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. cloth, 2s. DR. TURNBULL. AN INQUIRY INTO THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION, ITS PREVENTION, AND THE PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE TREATiMENT. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, (is. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH with FERMENTATION; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. cloth, Cs. DR. TWEE'DIE, F.R.S. CONTINUED FEYERS: THEIR DISTINCTIYE CHARACTERS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREAT.MENT. With Coloured Plate=. 8vo. cloth. 12s. ^1 YESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CRKVIIOK. Eleventh Edition. Illustrated with 106 Engravings on Wood. 8vo. clolli, if. 6(1, i X CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. i Neiv Edition, in one Volume, Edited f>y Dr. Beale, 8vo. cloth, 18s. \— —— .J^. MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. 37 DR. UNDERWOOD TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. Tenth Edition, with Additions and Corrections by Henky Da vies, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. UNGER. BOTANICAL LETTERS. Translated by Dr. B. Paul. Numerous Woodcuts. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA, ITS COMPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS; a Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those Affections. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Grf. i DR. WALKER, M.B.LOND. ON DIPHTHERIA AND DIPHTHERITIC DISEASES. Fcap 8vo. cloth, 3s. ' ■ DR. WALLER. ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or. Companion to the Lying-in Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d. 0 MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE EYE. with Engravings on ^\ood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. DR. WARING, M.D., M.R.C.P.LOND. A MANUAL OF PRACTICAL THERAPEUTICS. Second Edition i Revised and Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ' THE TROPICAL RESIDENT "aT HOME. Letters addressed to DR. WATERS, F.R.C.P. DISEASES OF TIIE CHEsi' contributions to their CLINICAL HISTORY, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT. With Plates, ovo. ciotn, I'Js, ba. jj THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN LUNG. The Prize Essay jU at. doti^M.''"" "'^'"■'^''^ ^'^''^^ ^^'^'''^ Society of London. RESEARCHES ON THE NATURE, PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF EMPHYSEMA OF THE LUNGS AND ITS RFr A SJIifS.'""™ '''"^^^ ^^^^^^'^^ THE'ci!l£?'%'irEng;a'^gs^'S^o: DR. ALLAN WEBB, F.R.C.S.L ™s™ISff"*;^. FOR OPERATIONS IN hURGERY. Royal 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6(/.— J^. 38 MESSRS. CHURCHILL & SONS' PUBLICATIONS. DR. WEBER. A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND Per- cussion. Translatedby John Cockle, M.D. 6s. MR. SOELBERG WELLS, M.D., M.R.C.S. ON LONG, SHORT, AND WEAK SIGHT, and their Treatment by the Scientific Use of Spectacles. Second Edition. With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. DISEASES OE THE OYARIES: THEIE DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. Vol. I. 8vo. cloth, 9s. SCALE OF MEDICINES FOR MERCHANT VESSELS. With Observations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Seamen, &c. &c. Seventh Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. dd. DR. WEST. LECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN. Third Edition. 8vo. clotbj 16s. .^v^v^v^/v^x,.^^>,vw. DR. UVEDALE WEST. ILLUSTRATIONS OF PUERPERAL DISEASES. Second Edi- tion, enlarged. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. WHEELER. HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOR STUDENTS OF THE FINE ARTS. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6c/. DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.C.S. ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ] Os. 6rf. DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE: An Elementary Vien-of the Causes, Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. CHARLES T. WILLIAMS, M.B.OXON. THE CLIMATE OF THE SOUTH OF FRANCE, AND ITS VARIETIES, MOST SUITABLE FOR INVALIDS ; with Remarks on Italian and other Winter Stations. Crown «vo. cloth, 3s. OV. THE WIFE'S DOMAIN : the Young Couple—the Mother—the Nurse —the NuKSLiNO. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. G(/. DR. WINS LOW, M.D., D.C.LOXON. OBSCURE DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MIND. Fourth Edition. Careful^' Revised. Post 8vo. cloth, lOs. Gd.' J^.,^^ MESSRS, CHURCHILL & SONs' PUBLICATIONS. 39 MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. THE MATOMIST'S YADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ON DISEASES OF THE SKIN: a system of cutaneous MEDICINE. Sixth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 18s. The same Work ; illustrated with finely executed Engravings on Steel, accurately coloured. 8vo. cloth, 36s. HI. HEALTHY SKIN: A Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair in relation to Health. Seventh Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. POETEAITS OF DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Folio. Faseicnii i. to XII., completing the Work, 20s. each. The Entire Work, half morocco, £13. THE STUDENT'S BOOK OF CUTANEOUS MEDICINE AND DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. VI. ON SYPHILIS, CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY; AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Four Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, , 16s. VII. I A THREE WEEKS' SCAMPER THROUGH THE SPAS OF H GERMANY AND BELGIUM, with an Appendix on the Nature and Uses of Mineral Waters. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. fviii. , THE EASTERN OR TURKISH BATH: its History, Eevival in ^ Britain, and Application to the Pui-poses of Health. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. DR. WISE, M.D., F.R.C.P.EDIN. REVIEW OF THE HISTORY OF MEDICINE AMONG ASIATIC NATIONS. Two Vols. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. G. C. WITTSTEIN. PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY: An Explanation of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processes, with the Methods of Testing the Purity of the Preparations, deduced from Original Experiments. Translated from the Second German Edition, hy Stephen Darby. 18mo. cloth, 6s. DR. HENRY G. WRIGHT. I. UTERINE DISORDERS : their Constitutional Influence and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 7s. Gd. U, "^"2^E^^"^"^"^^ ' ^^"^^^ Edition. Fcap. 8vo. dr. YEARSLEY, M.D., M.R.C.S. DEAFNESS PRACTICALLY ILLUSTRATED; being an Exposition as to the Causes and Treatment of Diseases of the Ear. Sixth Edition. Ovo. cloth, 6s. ^Lr'll??^^ AILMENTS, MORE ESPECIALLY IN THE cS':!^''^'' ^""''^ ^"^^ ELONGATED UVULA. Ei,^th EdLn. 8vo. w^-^— ~^-^>^\CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. Fcap, 8vo. clotb, 12s. Gd. -each. I " We here give Mr. Churchill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on the Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint."— British and Foreign Medical Review. AGGIISGATE SALE, 150,000 COPIES. ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. Eighth Edition. By Ekasmus AViLsoN, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. BOTANY. With numerous Engravings. By Robert Bentley, F.L.S., Professor of Botany, King's College, and to the Pharmaceutical Society. CHEMISTRY. With numerous Engravings. Ninth Edition. By George FowNES, F.R.S., H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. HOFMANN, F.R.S. DENTAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. By John Tomes, F.R.S. MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Engivavings. Fifths Edition. By J. Forbes Rotle, M.D., F.R.S., and F. W. Headland, M.D., F.L.S. MEDICAL JURISPRTTDENCE. With numerous Engravings. Eighth Edition. By Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. By G. Hilaro Barlow, M.D., M.A. The MICROSCOPE and its REVELATIONS. With numerous Plates and Engravings. Fourth Edition. By W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Engravings. Sixth Edition. By Charles Brooke, M.B., M.A., F.R.S. Based on the Work of the late Dr. Goldmg Bird. . OBSTETRICS. With numerous Engravings. By W. Tyler Sjiith, M.D., F.R.C.P. OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE and SURGERY. With coloured Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. By T. Wharton Jones, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Engravings. By C, Handfield Jones, M.B., F.B.S., and E. H. Sieveking, M.D., F.R.C.P. PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. By Willlaji B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. POISONS. Second Edition. By Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICAL ANATOMY. AVith numerous Engi-aviugs. (10s. 6<^.) By CiiRisTOPHER Heath, F.R.C.S. PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Engravings. Fourth Edition. By Sir William Fergusson, Bart., F.R.C.S., F.R.S. THERAPEUTICS. Second Edition. By E. J. Waring, M.D., M.E.C.P. ' Printed by W. Blakcuakd & Sons, 62, MUlbank Street, Wc«tmin»ter. '"^ ' ^^^'^