92 TREATMENT OP ABSCESS. abscess be flabby, insensible, discoloured; if a thin lymphatic sanious fluid be secreted ; these are indications for the employment of more or less stimulating remedies, the umj. digestivum hasilicum, the oil of tur- pentine, decoction of oak bark, bark with tincture of myrrh, filling the cavity of the abscess with charpie, strong solution of nitrate of silver, with which is to be moistened the charpie laid in the cavity of the abscess. But all these means are superfluous; the moist warm poul- tices are more effectual in raising the vital activity necessary for the secre- tion of good pus, the pus thereby more readily escapes, and the patient is saved from the troublesome and painful dressings by the sticking of the bandages. If the patient’s strength fail and general weakness ensue, strengthening remedies, bark, rhatany, sweet flag, good nourishment, the enjoyment of pure air, and so on, are indicated. 64. If the edges of the abscess-aperture unite, whilst the secretion of pus continues, they may be easily drawn asunder or separated with a probe. Should the opening become too small, so that the pus cannot escape freely, it must be enlarged with the knife. If the granulations are developed too strongly, the proud flesh (Caro luxuriaiis, Lat.; Wu- cherndes Fleisch, Germ!) must be touched with nitrate of silver and a com- pressing bandage applied, by which cicatrization is specially encouraged. 65. When the pus does not escape properly, but collects in the abscess, (which may depend on the opening being too small or upon some pecu- liar situation of the abscess,) it sinks down in consequence of its own weight, or the little opposition which the loose cellular tissue in the interspaces of the part offers to it, or the suppurative process may extend with failure of the adhesive inflammation, and, on the other hand, an ulcerative absorption may favour the extension of the abscess, and form cavities or canals which are called flstidous passages (sinus flstulosi.) These fistulous passages are often consequent on improper treatment, if the opening of the abscess be stopped by plugs, and so on, and the due flowing of the pus thereby prevented. Under these circumstances a much larger quantity of pus escapes from the abscess than from its size might be expected ; especially if its neighbourhood be pressed in different direc- tions ; examination with the probe gives certain knowledge of its extent. If such fistulous passages remain long, their walls are overspread -ndth a soft fungous membrane, similar to mucous membrane, which prevents the healing, and, when still longer continued, assumes a whitish, Iiard, callous condition. The membrane of the fistula first pointed out by Hunter, has been well described by ViLLERME'(a), Laennec, and Breschet (b). [The passage in Hunter here alluded to is the following:—“ When the parts are un- sound, and of course the granulations formed upon tliem unsound, we have not this disposition for union, but a smooth surface is formed, somewhat similar to many natural internal surfaces of the body, and such as have no tendency to granulate, which con- tinues to secrete a matter expressive of the sore which it lubricates, and in some measure prevents the union of the granulations. 1 imagine, for instance, that the internal surface of a fistulous ulcer is in some degree similar to the inner surface of the urethra, when it is forming the discharge commonly called a gleet. Such sores have therefore no dis- position in their granulations to unite, and nothing can produce an union between them but altering the disposition of these granulations by exciting a considerable inflammation, and probably ulceration, so as to form new granulations, and by these means give them a chance of falling into a sound state.” (p. 480.)] («) In Journal de MWecine, par Lf. Uoux, July, 1315. (bj Dietionnaire des Sciences Medicales, vol. viii. p. 20!>. Journal von Graefe und Waltbeb, vol. 11. part iv.