TREATMENT. 725 inuetl, and closing of the fistula only attempted, when the relief of •he bowels lias been effected for some time in the natural way, even without injections. The closing of the fistula (often the most difficult lart of the whole treatment) may be effected by quiet by a rmderate compressing' appamtus with variously-formed pads and elastic belly-band, )y toucliing* with lunar caustic, by pressing the edges of the fistula ogether with a peculiar compresser (a) invented by Dupuytren, by sticking plaster, by suture, or by the removal of the whole circle of nucous membrane preventing adhesion at the mouth of the fistula, and wen by detaching part of the external coverings above the opening, and aying it before it. In general a small fistulous opening remains for ^ears, then only occasionally do a few drops of intestinal dirt escape, and iterwards it closes of itself. In tiiose cases where artificial anus cannot >e cured, various proposals have been made to catch the excrement. The nost simple, and in most cases most suitable, is a belly-band, which, in- tead of a pad, is furnished with an ivory plate having an opening in its uiddle, and connected by means of a cylinder of elastic rosin, with a silver vessel, out of which the escape of the stools is prevented by a valve (6). Dieffexbach (c) at last cured an artificial anus arising from a lance -vround, -which .ad withstood every plan of treatment, in the following manner:—He destroyed with he hot iron not only the edge of the intestine adhering to the opening, but also a con- iderable portion of the intestine within the belly, and in every cauterization the ■peri- oneum participated. This burning was free from pain. He first burned the edges f the intestine; some days after, he introduced a curved hot iron, of the thickness of feather-stem, through the hole, into the cavity of the intestine and carried it round. !'he opening gradually became smaller ; granulations sprung from within, and by re- eated burnings with smaller hooks, which he introduced to the extent of an inch about le inner edge of the opening, it diminished to the size of a small fistula. This also losed by the repeated introduction of a heated fine silver probe. The patient was erfectly restored after nine months. 922. If an unnatural anus communicate with the ccBCum, and arises rora ulceration, neither funnel-shaped lengthening of the peritoneum, nor rejecting partition are produced, as after gangrene of a coil of intestine ; nd it is therefore more difficult to cure. Suture is useless. The skin has ■een detached about the opening, and brought together with some stitches, ut equally without avail. Autoplasty has been attempted, but the laps ave sloughed. The skin about the opening may be pared off, without he inner parts being touched, so that the escape of faeculent matter may e prevented, and that the dragging of the threads may be better borne; therwise, for the purpose of rendering the tearing and dragging less, emicircular cuts maybe made in the skin, of which the concavities should e directed towards the unnatural anal opening, upon which, when the peration is finished, slight pressure may be made by graduated compresses, ^ELPEAU {d) also proposes the introduction of a tube of gum elastic, pro- ided with several holes, through which waxed threads are to be carried rom within outwards, through the previously pared edges of the opening! Vhen the aperture has scarred, the threads are to be cut through, and hen the tube being set free, passes by stool; a mode of treatment similar 'o -N Reybard for the union of wounds of intestines ( par. 2o.) Perhaps Dieffenbach’s above-mentioned burnings may be appli- able to such cases of artificial anus. ■ r, (“)Bresch£t, above cited, pi. iii. fig. 2. ivS'Sir,,G, ai.,MH„ Ss""' .&ff p, <£o5. ^