[ 807 ] XIV.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE-.IOINT. {Liixalio Tali, Lat.; Vcrrenkung des Fussgelenhes, Germ.; Luxation du Pied, Fr.) Desault, above cited, vol. i. p. 423. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 375. Cooper, Astley, above cited, p. 238. Dupuytren ; in Annuaire Medico-Chirurgical des Hopitaux et Hospices de Paris. Paris, 1819. 4to.; with copper-plates. 1089. Dislocations of the foot are frequent, and may occur inwards and outwards, forwards and backwards; the dislocation inwards is the most common; those forwards and backwards are much rarer tlian those on either side. They are generally complete or incomplete, simple or com- pound. 1090. In the dislocation mwards, produced by violent turning of the foot outwards, the joint surface of the astragalus is placed beneath the inner ankle, and the lower end of the shin-bone so thrust inwards, that the skin is ready to burst by its pressure; the inner edge of the foot is inclined downwards, the outer upwards, the sole of the foot outwards and its back inwards. This dislocation may be accompanied with considerable tearing of the ligaments, with fracture of the outer ankle or of the middle of the splint-bone, or of the lower end of the shin-bone, the soft parts may be torn, the joint surface of the astragalus or of the shin-bone be thrust through the skin, or there may be at the same time dislocation of the astragalus from its connexion with heel- and navicular bones. In the latter case, the integuments are often uninjured, and the ligaments between the astragalus, heel-, and navicular bone suffer only considerable extension ; often, however, are all these ligaments and integuments so torn, that the astragalus is merely attached at some parts. The dislocation outwards, is consequent on violent inclination of the foot inwards; the astragalus is thrust beneath the outer ankle, the inner edge of the foot is turned upwards, the outer inwards, the sole inwards, tlie back outwards. This dislocation may be connected with fracture of the lower end of the splint-bone and of the inner ankle. Usually is there ilso in lateral dislocation, a more or less decided inclination of the foot forwards or backwards. 1091. The symptoms mentioned of lateral dislocation are so distinct that it cannot be mistaken even when considerable swelling has taken place. But this swelling may render difficult the diagnosis of the different complications. 1092. In dislocation of the foot fortuards, which arises from violent extension of the foot, and is rarer than that backwards, the joint-surfaces of the astragalus are in front of the shin-bone, the foot fixedly bent, the heel shortened, and the Achilles’ tendon nearer the back of the leg. In dislocation backwards, which may be consequent on a fall, with the sole of the foot on an oblique surface, the foot is outstretched and short- ened, the heel more prominent, the Achilles’ tendon projects from the liack of the leg, the joint-surface of tlie astragalus is felt on the back of the shin-bone, the under end of which forms a hard projection on the middle of the instep and rests on the navicular bone and only on a small portion of the articular surface of the astragalus in front. This disloca-