39 PUS—CHAEACTERS. [(I) Pus “ is formed from some change, decomposition, or separation of the blood which it undergoes in its passage out of the vessels, and for efFecting which the vessels of the : part have been formed, which produces a subsiding of the inflammation from which it i took its disposition. * * ^ In order to carry on the decompositions and combinations . necessary for producing this effect, either a new or peculiar structure of vessels must be formed or a new disposition, and of course a new mode of action of the old must take place. This new structure or disposition of vessels I shall call glandular, and the eflfect or pus a secretion.” (pp. 415, 416.) “ The purpose which the formation of pus serves in the economy is,” says Travers, i “ in conjunction with another act of inflammation, to open a communication with a con- I tiguous surface, either for the purpose of liberating matter incapable of organization, I and therefore superfluous or hurtful; or as indispensable to reconstruction or the ; efiacement of lesions by granulation, (p. 118.) The continuance of inflammation, : beyond the term required for union in simple solutions of continuity, in cases which : are beyond reparation by the direct adhesive process, and in phlegmon or adhesive ■ deposit unaccompanied by external lesion, entails an addition of the suppurative to the . adhesive action, (p. 124.) (2) The principal peculiar qualities of pus are its colour and consistence; but it appears :: that the colour takes its rise from the largest portion of the whole mass being composed of very small round bodies, very much like those small round globules which, swimming : in a fluid, make cream. “ I should suppose,” says John Hunter, “those round globules ; to be white in themselves as cream would appear to be, although it is not necessary that ;i the substances of matter which reflects a white, should be itself white. * * These glo- |! bules swim in a fluid which we should at flrst suppose to be the serum of the blood, for :i it coagulates with heat like serum, and most probably is mixed with a small quantity of k coagulating lymph; for pus in part coagulates, after having been discharged from die f secreting vessels, as mucus is observed to do; but, although it is thus far similar to {•serum, yet it has properties the serum has not.” The fluid part of the pus would not (coagulate on the addition of the gastric juice, or of solutions of neutral salts, but only pwith sal ammoniac, (hydrochlorate of ammonia,) “Avhich would not coagulate any .other of our natural juices.” The proportion of the white globules in the pus “ depends I on the health of the parts which formed it; for, when they are in a large proportion the imatter is thicker and whiter, and is called good matter.” * * * Pus is specifically heavier t than water: it is probably nearly of the same weight with blood or any other animal ^substance rendered fluid. It has a sweetish and mawkish taste, probably from having fSugar in it, which is very different from most other secretions. It has a smell in some Jdegree peculiar to itself.” (p. 428-9.) _ (3) With reference to the putrefaction of pus. Hunter observes:—“ Pus, from several Nsircumstances often attending it, would appear in general to have a greater tendency to .putrefaction than the natural juices have; but I very much suspect that this is not rreally the case with pure pus, for, when it is first discharged from an abscess, it is in •.:generally perfectly sweet. There are, however, some exceptions to this; but these '.depend on circumstances entirely foreign to the nature of pus itself,” (p. 434,) of which he instances the communication of the air with the interior of an abscess; the near- mess of an abscess to the feculent contents of the colon, or rectum, when blood is con- itained in abscess resulting from external injury, or when part of the solids mortify ifrom the same cause, and the like; “ in all such circumstances we find tlie pus has a tgreater tendency to putrify than the pure or true pus,” which, “ although easily rendered •susceptible of change by extraneous additions, is in its own nature pretty uniform and immutable. It appears so unchangeable that we find it retained in an abscess for weeks, without having undergone any change; but these qualities belong only to per- kect pus.” (p. 435.) Pus from sores, he remarks, is subject to the same changes under iiimilar circumstances. Gulliver also states, that he has had healthy pus “ in a window, •X) which the sun had access for six weeks, without becoming fetid, and, if carefully washed of all impurities, it will continue sweet for an almost indefinite time” (a.) (4) Thomson says the globular structure of pus was first mentioned by Senac (6). The following is, I presume, the passage to which he refers:—“ The globules of pus Tre similar to those of the blood: such as are seen in the matter of which gonorrhoea r:onsists are larger, whilst those which form the pus of ulcers are smaller and more inequal in size : but this figure does not give redness to these globules; they are white, rud this whiteness is constant.” (p. 659.) John Hunter describes as “ the peculiar character of pus, globules swimming in a (o) Med. Gaz., N. S., vol. ii. p. 312. 1839-40. (6) Traitc de la structure du Coour, et son action et de sea Maladies, vol. ii. Sup. Paris, 1749. 4to.