226 STRUCTURE OF straight, which terminates in a dilatation, or in convoluted branches, from which tlie vein arises. From the fact of the presence of these vessels, which converge towards, and form convolutions internal to the articular cartilage, it may lie inferred that they > supply the cells of the latter with a nutrient fluid. As the articular cartilage increases ^ in thickness, and the ossific nucleus which is developed in the cpiphysal cartilage be- comes larger, these vessels gradually recede from between them, and leave a consider- able ma-'s of non-vascular cartilage between the osseous nucleus and the synovial. membrane; all of this appears to be articular cartilage, which is now nourished by ^ the vessels in the interior of the nucleus. The supply of blood-vessels in the cancelli of. the osseous nucleus is remarkably abundant; they are large, and are separated from the*, surrounding cartilage by an extremely delicate lamina of bone, which is principally * made up of osseous cells. I am induced to believe that at this stage of development, as in: adult age, the^ fluid passes from the bone into the cartilage and nourishes it. • • • The* articular cartilage, at this early period of life, is thicker than in the adult state. A1-; i though devoid of canals for the reception of blood-vessels, it presents numerous minuted canals, which pervade that portion of it contiguous to the osseous nucleus, and theyj course from the latter towards the synovial membrane, which, however, tliey do not < reach. * • * They are minute, and extremely numerous; they divide, sub-divide, and j communicate with each other, and form dilatations. The parietes of these canals pre-.- sent distinct rounded cells, which in some places are arranged in rows and groups. The* substance between these tubes is transparent, and contains no corpuscles. The articulan cartilage above described is gradually being converted into bone during the whole of life.” (p. 165-7.) The nutrient vessels of articular cartilage during its development, which are situated* betwixt it and its synovial membrane, “ are contained and ramify in a considerable layer i of cellular tissue,” by which that membrane is attached to the articular cartilage, and, from which Toynbee detached nearly the whole. His statement, however, that “ these* vessels have been alluded to by Dr. William Hunter under the name of ‘ circnlusi articuli vasculosus,’ ” is quite incorrect, as reference to the passage already quoted willli prove; in which Hunter says, they “ plunge in by a great number of small holes, andl disperse themselves into branches between the cartilage and the bone;” and not “ on the J entire surface of the articular cartilage,” as described by Toynbee. “ It is difficult,'.! says this latter writer, “ to state generally at what period of fmtal existence these vessels** which have been spoken of in the first stage as forming convolutions around the joints J are prolonged upon its (the articular cartilage’s) surface.” But, after having studied* with care these stages, he states, that “ at between the third and fourth month of fcetah life these vessels are simply a mass of delicate convolutions, situated between the sj-no<' vial membrane ; at the fifth month, these convolutions are somewhat unravelled, so aia to extend over the surface of the cartilage to the distance of about half a line; and a'4 between the seventh and eighth months, they are drawn out and prolonged to the distanart of a line and a half. At this stage, these vessels consist of arteries of considerable size* which radiate in a straight course from the attachment of the ligamentum teres. They give off but few branches, and, previous to terminating, divide and sub-divide, but d»il not much diminish in size. They terminate by turning and forming loops with th« small veins. Subsequent to the eighth month these vessels begin to recede in their cou^d and at birth, and the periods subsequent to it, they are again found to be gathered imi mediately around the point of attachment of the ligamentum teres. After these ves^l have receded, the position they occupied at the more early periods may be for some ti^ detected by the white aspect of the cellular tissue between the cartilage and the synovia« membrane.” In the knee-joint there is a little difference: “ The arteries which liav**! run straight towards the centre of circulation, give off small branches, forming a delicat .* net-work communicating with the small veins, and terminate either by turning in thei i course, and forming broad loops with the venous radicles, or empty themselves into :■ single vessel from which the veins arise.” (p. 168.) 'Fhe canals in adult cartilage, already mentioned, Toynbee describes as “irrcgnlai in their distribution; some are merely dilated cavities; frequently several of th»-. cavities are elongated and arranged serially, nmning from the attached towards m free surfaces of the cartilage. At the free or synovial surface these canals do not exist- the cells of the texture at this part being elongated and flattened, and having their Ion; diameters parallel to the free surface. These canals contain a transparent fluid, whici is seen to ooze from them after a section. It is most probable that tlie uninjecte*- vessels mentioned by Meckel, Bichat, and others, were these canals and sinuses.- (pp. 169-70.) The observations just alluded to are the following:—Meckel (a) sap (fl) Ilnndbucli dcr Mensclilichcn Anatomic, vol.i. Hal® ct Berol., 1815-20.