285 SPINE-DISEASE. instance,” says he, “ in wlilch the abscess penetrated into the theca vertehralis and the whole spinal cord, from its origin to its termination, was bathed in pus. (p. 255.)] 263. Dissection shows tlie penosteum and joint-ligaments of the atlas and axis destroyed, carious destruction on the occipital condyles on the atlas, and on tlie odontoid process of the axis ; suppuration among the neiglibouring soft parts; sometimes blood poured out from the diseased vertebral artery ; pus in the cavity of the chest, or diseased changes of the membranes and substance of the spinal marrow and brain. 264. In the spondylarthrocace sacralis, if the disease first appear as in- flammation and ulceration of the synchondrosis sacro-iliaca, occurring after mechanical violence on the rump-bone, after raising a heavy weight, after difficult delivery, or after previous rheumatic affection, there is a fixed pain near tlie rump-bone which is very severe on standing upright: the patient, therefore, usually lies, or sits as little as possible ; his walk is very difficult, limping, painful; the position of the back stiff, which is lessened in mov- ing ; the pain frequently extends through the buttock, in the course of the ischiatic nerve to the foot or towards the groin. Pressure upon the syn- chondrosis sacra-iliaca, and upon the rump-bone, is painful; frequently the region of the affected joint is swollen. The extremity of the diseased side is often stiffened, and cannot be moved without the most severe pain. The inflammation is often great, especially after child-birth and severe injury, and is accompanied with considerable fever. I have observed this condition in both joints of the rump-bone at the same time, after difficult labour, in which walking was in the highest degree painful, and resembled an alter- nate dropping from one foot to the other. Palsy of the lower limbs and of tlie rectum is rarely observed. Abscesses may appear either externally on ihe synchondrosis, or in the neighbourhood of the rectum. 265. As to the etiology and treatment of this disease, all applies which has been hitherto mentioned. The same conditions which have been here described in various joints, may also arise, in a similar manner, in all the other joints,—those of the foot, hand, and elbow, and require the same treatment.