330 INCISED by the position of the part to whicli tlie tendon is attached ; for instance, in wound of an extensor tendon, the part must be put straight, in wound of a flexor it must be bent. If several tendons be divided at the same time, two opposite ends of tendons may usually be brought together till it is not easy to determine whether tliey belong to each other. Stitching tendons together is out of use; but, recently, it has been again employed with advantage (a). In division of the extensor tendons of the hand and fingers, the hoard proposed by Evers (6) is used, on which the fore arm is fastened by means of a bandage, so that the hand and fore arm are kept at a nearly right angle. In rupture of portions of the w. extens. carpi rad. and uln., which happened by falling on the back of the hand without any accompanying wound of the skin, I have produced a perfect cure by the use of this apparatus. 322. If a large nervous trunk have been cut through, paralysis of the part, to which it goes, usually takes place, because both its ends retract consi- derably, and can be united only with great difficulty, or not at all. If, however, the ends of the divided nerves unite accurately, their con- ducting function is only momentarily suspended, and afterwards becomes restored. The dispute about the regeneration of the nerves and the recovery of their function after division has continued ever since the time of Cruikshank. The following cir- cumstances, however, favour the opinion just given. Divided nerves retract from two to four or six lines, on account of their tension and the contractility of their sheath and of the cellular tissue connecting their bundles. Generally some nervous pulp escapes from the divided bundle of fibrils, redness and swelling extend from half an inch to an inch along the nerve, further, however, on the upper than on the lower end. Coagulabla lymph is poured out, and vessels are formed. By the outpouring of lymph into the cellular sheaths and into the cellular tissue connecting their fibres, a swelling is produced larger at the upper than at the lower end. The divided nerve is united in a few days by lymph; the connecting mass becomes denser and the vessels appear less full of blood; the swollen ends approach nearer, run together, and thus the connexion is re- produced. Their connecting power is restored more quickly in proportion as the space between their ends was less. That the reproduction of their functions is not dependent on the anastomosis of nerves is proved by the fact, that if the newly united nerve be again divided, its functions are again interrupted. It appears from Haighton’s ex- periments that if the pneumo-gastric nerves be divided on both sides at once, death will speedily ensue, but this is not the case if they be divided at long intervals. Meyeb has observed the same effect in the application of nitric acid to the scar of nerves as to the nervous mass itself. Labrey even found that after amputation the ends of the several nerves of the stump united like loops, so that on making a section at the place of union no trace of a cicatrix could be found. ' Fontana, Traite sur le Venin de la Vipere, Florence, 1791, vol. ii. p. 177. i Arnemann, fiber die Eegeneration der Nerven. Gdtting., 1787. ' Haighton, J,; in Philosophical Transactions. 1795. Meyer, in Keil’s Archiv., vol. ii. part ii. p. 449. Meckel, Handbuch der Menschl. Anatomie, vol. i. p. 345. Larrey, Notice sur quelques Phdnombnes Pathologiques observdes dans la Ldsion des . i Nerfs et dims leur Cicatrization; in Kevue Medicale, 1824, Marseil., p. 406. Pauli, above cited, p. 71. Note sur la Regeneration du Tissu Nerveux; in the Memoires de la Soci^td de Phy- ■ sique et d’Histoire Naturelle de Genbve, vol. iii. part ii. 61. Prevost ; in London Medic. Repos., Jan. 1828, p. 79. Tiedemann, fiber die Regeneration der Nerven; in Zeitschrift fur Physiologic, vol. •' iv. part i. p. 68. Hamilton ; in Dublin Journal, March 1838. (a'\ Valentin and IIobekt ; in Journal des (fc) Neue vollstandigc Womcrkungen nnd l.rfahr* Connaissances Med.-Chir., March, 1839, No. ix. *ur Bericlitigung der WundarxncikunsL ' _ JQ7 1787, § Stark \ erbandclehrc, plate xix. fig. l»»i '■