775 AND OF THE PELVIC BONES. f I literspinous ligaments of the spinous processes, and the hinder so-called yellow liga- ments may be torn. If the tearing be confined to the interspiuous and to the upper [itraraeuts, the patient may recover after a longer or shorter period of rest; but tearing { the yellow ligaments causes palsy and death (a). 1013. The ligaments of single vertehrce may be partially or completely orn through, without dislocation, but the injury of the spinal marrow [herewith connected may cause death suddenly or subsequently; and to uch cases all that has been said in relation to fractures of the spine applies. In every case of distortion and tearing of the ligaments of the spine, only [ strict antiphlogistic treatment, with continual rest, and subsequently, fre- Luent purgatives to prevent the destructive subsequent diseases, may be Employed. III.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE PELVIC BONES. {Luxatio Ossium Pelvis, Lat.; Verrenkung der Beckenknochen, Germ.; Luxation des Os du Bassin, Fr.) Creve, Von den Krankheiten des weiblichen Beckens. Berlin, 1795. 4to. p. 137. 1014. The broad surfaces of the articulations of the pelvic bones, and Ihe great strength of their ligaments, render their separation impossible under natural circumstances, except when acted upon by extraordinarily ^eat violence. The rump-bone may be dislocated inwards, and the hip- bone, upwards. These dislocations are never complete; the effects of violence, however, usually act upon the intestines of the pelvic cavity and upon the spinal marrow, and inflammation and tearing of these intestines and effusion of blood, and so on, in the pelvic cavity, ensue; also, palsy of the lower limbs, of the bladder, and rectum; and not unfrequently is frac- ture of the pelvic bones present. The treatment of these dangerous injuries must be precisely the same as nas been mentioned (par. 615) for fractures of the pelvic bones. One case shows that a dislocation of the hip-bone upwards may be produced by a fall [:rom a great height, without symptoms of concussion of the spinal marrow or injury of pe pelvic intestines. The share-bone and the spine of the hip-bone of the left side [were higher; the left limb was shorter than the other, but the distance from the tro- hhanter to the spine of the hip-bone and to the knee, was the same as on the other side; mexion and extension of the thigh were accompanied with severe pain in the symphysis [pu6ts and sacro-iliaca, with which frequently the whole hip-bone moved. The exten- Ision caused only severe pain, without bringing the limb to its natural length. The treatment in this case consisted in strict quiet, and the employment of proper antiphlo- pstic remedies. When the patient began to walk, he gradually, by the weight of his body, recovered the proper position of the hip-bone (6). 1015 Great as must be the violence to produce a separation of the hip- ^ bone, if its articular connexions have their natural degree of strength, just •as easily can it be produced if these connexions be lax and yielding. Such ^is the case in loosening and swelling of the ligaments of the pelvis during pregnancy. Wherefore also frequently from the extension which these P'bones suffer during delivery, or if the woman get about soon after her Nownlying, a pretty smart pain is suffered in one or both joints of the r-pelvic bones, which recurs at every movement, and is accompanied at first *i‘with the sensation of a tearing, and subsequently, distinct crepitation is 'felt in the pelvic joints. The gait of the patient is then difficult, and on (a) Botew, p. 121. (6) Ibid, p. 135.