149 THE PAROTID GLAND. imperfect, and eheesy or serous. It is also profuse, and protracted to a long period, and aceompanied with fatal sloughs. The patient is debilitated by the discharge, the irrita- tion excites hectic fever, and the case frequently terminates fatally.” (p. 328.) The second kind, or Mumps, of which Chelius has just treated. Good observes, “ is altogether of a different kind” from his first kind; “ is more extensive, more painful, and rarely tends to suppuration.” This kind, he proceeds to say, “ in advanced life, is sometimes apt to run into a chronic form, accompanied with very mischievous symptoms; in which state it is denominated a malignant parotid. This is more especially apt to take place in females, when menstruation is on the point of ceasing, and the general action of the system labours under some disturbance.” (p. 409.)] 138. This disease prevails mostly as an epidemic, more frequently in southern than in northern regions, in very changeable, especially moist and wet weather, and in spring time. Some consider it contagious; it, how- ever, attacks only once during life; it seizes on all ages and both sexes, young people especially, and particularly young males. The severity of this disease differs materially in different epidemics. 139. Inflammation of the parotid glands not unfrequently occurs in typhus fever, sometimes with, sometimes without, benefit. Scrofula, syphilis, repulsed eruptions, often giving origin to it, or it is caused by improper use of mercury, carious teeth, difficult dentition, by cold, or by external injury. The character and course of the inflammation differs in these cases. It may be so severe as to run into mortification, but generally has a milder result, and passes into suppuration (1), hardening (2), and sarcomatous hardening of the parotid. [ (1) Evxnson and Maunseio. (a) say, that the swelling of mumps “ at times, but very rarely, will proceed to suppuration, and may cause immediate death, by discharging its contents into the larynx, if it burst internally, or lead to great deformity when it-onens externally.” (p. 216.)] J v (2) Mason Good says, his parotid phlegmon “ assumes, occasionally, a scirrhous hard- ness, and grows to a considerable extent; it has been extirpated, but with variable success, when upwards of three pounds in weight (6) ; sometimes with a cure (c); but, at other times, it has degenerated into afoul bleeding and extensive ulcer” {d'). (p. 328.) 140. If the inflammation be mild, the preservation of warmth in the swelling by covering it with flannel, or bags of elder flower and so on, and the use of gentle diaphoretics, are sufficient. If the condition be decidedly inflammatory and the fever severe, antiphlogistic means, and even blood- ffittmg must be employed ; moderately, however, and with great caution. Hut, It the patient be very weakly, and the fever incline rather to the nervous type, mild infusions of balm, valerian, with solution of acetate of ammonia, camphor, and so on, must be given. When the swelling has not properly nsen, wlien it has_ subsided, or when the perspiration upon it ce^es, a blister may be applied. When the inflammation attacks the g-ene- tliey must be kept warm, covered with flannel, and the tesHcles supported by a suspensory bandage. If the brain be attacked blisters must be laid upon the scrotum and on the parotid glands and hquor ammon acet. with warm drinks administered internally and "n depr^ed vital powers, camphor, antimonial wine and the bke the disperse, a volatile liniment with camphor is to°be rubbed in”° 41. If the inflammation of the parotid gland be connected with dyscratic (6) Kalthchmied, Pr. do Turaore ScirrhoM'<! ext” ISrii. feliciter cx- ,rf) Commerc. Lit. Nor., 1733-8.