449 WOUNDS. closed witli a clot, after which the extravasation may be discharged in the usual way. Only in large, open wounds is the immediate ligature of the intercostal artery ])ossible. If the pleura be not wounded at the same time with the intercostal artery, it maybe attempted to stanch the bleeding by filling the wound with charpie. 494. Wounds of the hiternal Mammary Artery must be distinguished on anatomical principles and by examination, as in wounded intercostal artery. Between the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs it must be nearly always accompanied with a division of the rib-cartilage; and it may be wounded without effusion of blood into the cavity of the pletira. What has been said in reference to stanching bleeding from the inter- costal, in part, also, applies to that from the mammary artery. It may, perhaps, be taken up on the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces. As to the other modes of treatment, only compression, by means of folds of linen filled with charpie, and the remedies advised for stanching bleed- ing from the lungs are to be employed. ° 49.T. hen the large vessels in the cavity oj" the Chest are wounded, the person dies quickly ; only when the wound is small can he live for a little time. If no very large vessel be wounded, the symptoms vary. If the lungs be wounded at a part where they are connected with the pleura, there will not be any effusion into the cavity of the pleura, and that space only made by the wounding instrument into the lungs will be filled with biood ; it flows out, if the external wound be sufficiently laro-e or filters into the cel s of the lung itself. But if the lung be wounded at an unattached jMrt, the blood will flow into the cavity of the phura, and the symptoms already described will be produced. ^ inffirwtl^^^ stanching of bleeding from wounded lungs can only be effected ^^■the circulation must be so reduced by the most strict antiphlogistic treatment, by large repeated bleedings, that by the greatest by continued use of cold applications^to tlm chest ■? “ay be formed in the opening of the vessel h ch, under the weakened circulation, cannot be thrust out by tL W ThJ’hw"^ blood and consequently theVounded vessel is obliterated f he bleeding must therefore be so often repeated as the pulse be'in to pu?p ":f‘’r.i"r.?e“S c- ‘t of the natural warmrt audT™ . “T symptoms, by the return continue, then, after two or three (lavs we extr.avasation still of the chest. Only when there is nmnifp«t cavity be done earlier; in which ca.se iiowever n ®*^ffocation is this to always so much earlier to be feared. ’ of the bleeding is tioned, is objecte^ the grounds just men- _ng wounds of the chest, injury of the thoracic reasons“ i. In niost penetrat- ing do not at once take plaS most JoS^^onlv — exists, and if prima? bleed- von. I. (") p I ““"elj doubtful, and 2 G