ULCERATION. 50 of the secreted juices, the fat and the earth of bones, &c.; both, however, serve princi- pally to the nourishment of the body as well as to other and even hurtful purposes. The second function, that of “ removing parts of the body itself, » # » may be viewed in two lights.” The one view presents them as causing “ a wasting of the M'hole machine or part, * * ♦ which I call interstitial absorption, because it is remov- ing parts of the body out of the interstices of that part which remains, leaving the part still as a perfect whole. But this mode is often carried further than simply wasting of the part; it is often continued till not a vestige is left, such as the total decay of a tes- ticle.” The other view exhibits them as “ removing whole parts of the body,” and “ may be divided into the natural and diseased.” Under natural circumstances the absorbents “ are to be considered as the modellers of the original construction of the bodyfor “ no alteration can take place in the original formation of many of the parts, either in the natural gi-owth, or that formation arising from disease, in which the ab- sorbents are not in action, and take not a considerable part; this absorption I shall call modelling absorption. * * Absorption, in consequence of disease, is the power of removing complete parts of the body, and is in its operation somewhat similar to the first of this division or modelling process, but very different in the intention, and there- fore in its ultimate effects. This process of removing whole parts in consequence of disease, in some cases, produces effects which are not similar to one another; one of these is a sore or ulcer, and I therefore call it (the absorption) ulcerative. In other cases no ulcer is produced, although whole parts are removed; and for this I have not been able to find a term; but both may be denominated progressive absorption. ***** It may be difficult at first to conceive how a part of the body can be removed by itself; but it is just as difficult to conceive how a body can form itself, which we see daily taking place; * * * but this I may assert, that wherever any solid part of our bodies undergoes a diminution, or is broken in upon, in conse-: quence of any disease, it is the absorbing system which does it. When it becomes necessary that some whole living part should be removed, it is evident that na- ture, in order to effect this, must not only confer a new activity on the absor- bents, but must throw the part to be absorbed into such a state as to yield to this; operation. This is the only animal power capable of producing such effects, and, like all other operations of the machine, arises from a stimulus or au irritation; all other methods of destruction being either mechanical or chemical. The first by cutting instruments, as knives, saws, &c.; the second by caustics, metallic salts, &c. The process of ulceration is of the same general nature in all cases; but some of the causes and effects are very different from one another.” (pp. 440, 2.) ‘‘ Thisi process of the removal of parts of the body, either by interstitial or progressive absorp- tion, answers very material purposes in the machine, without which many local diseases could not be removed, and which, if allowed to remain, would destroy the person. It may be called in such cases the natural surgeon. It is by the progressive absorption that matter or pus, and extraneous bodies of all kinds, vvhether in conse^ quence of or producing inflammation and suppuration, are brought to the external surface; it is by means of this that bones exfoliate; it is this operation which separates sloughs; it is the absorbents which are removing old bones, while the arteries are supplying new ones; and, although in these last cases of bones it arises from disease, yet it is somewhat similar to the modelling process of the system in the natural formation of bone; it is this operation that removes useless parts, as the alveolar processes when the teeth drop out, or when they are removed by art; as also the fangs of the shedding teeth, which allows them to drop off; and it is by these means ulcers are formed. It becomes a substitute in many cases for mortification, which is another mode fw the loss of substance ; and in such cases it seems to owe its taking place of raorufi- cation to a degree of strength or vigour superior to that where mortification taki'S place; for, although it arises often from weakness, yet it is an action, while mo^ tification is the loss of all action. In many cases it finishes what mortification had begun, by separating the mortified part. These two modes of absorption—the inter- stitial and the progressive—are often wisely united, or perform their purposes often ffl the same part which is to be removed; and this may be called the mired, wliich^ I b*" lieve takes place in most cases, as in that of extraneous bodies of all kinds coming to the skin; also in abscesses, when in soft parts. It is the second kind of interstitw absorption, the progressive and the mixed, that become mostly the object of surgery; although the first ot the interstitial sometimes takes place so as to lie worthy of tion. This operation of the absorption of whole parts, like many other process the animal economy, arising from disease, would often appear to be doing miscnie. by destroying parts which are of service, and where no visible good appears to an