558 FRACTURE OF THE BONES the fore-arm, half an inch or an inch above the wrist on tlie radial side 1 which extends to the dorsal surface of the spoke-bone ; the head of the cubit makes a considerable projection and the wrist-bones are more inclined * i to the ulnar side; the carpus seems to project somewhat on the dorsal j surface of the spoke-bone, and, therefore, the back of the joint is generally ] rather swollen. On the palmar surfaee of the fore-arm, corresponding j to the coneavity of the spoke-bone, there is a very full, elastic swelling, ' often accompanied with extraordinary tension of the flexor tendons. In i consequence of the depression on the edge of the spoke-bone and the pro- jection of the head of the cubit, the whole radial side projects more at the carpus and thumb, i. e. the hand is inclined to the radial side and its length inclines much outwards from the fore-arm. The hand is movable at the joint and both styloid processes are in natural relation to the carpus. The patient has less pain at the joint, than at the lower end of the spoke- bone, at the depression on the radial side, and in the swelling on the palmar side, on the head of the cubit, and in the capsular ligaments, be- neath it; the pain is increased by pressure. On both surfaces of the ; lower end of the spoke-bone may be easily felt the irregularities arising from displacement of the fractured ends, and which consist in a transverse, often oblique projection of the upper end of the fracture, three or four lines above the wrist-joint, and in a less distinet projection of the upper part of the lower fractured portion on the dorsal side, eight or ten lines above the joint. Frequently, if the fracture be somewhat higher, both ends may form an obtuse angle towards the palmar surface, in which case the depression on the dorsal surface is greater. Motion and crepitation are not always felt. J^ger found the upper fractured end firmly resting on the cubit. Pronation and supination, bending and violent straightening of the hand, are very painful and restricted. In pronation, the rotation of the head of the spoke-bone is wanting, the fingers are usually half bent; the deformity is generally diminished by extension, but soon returns. The inflammatory swelling often spreads considerably. If the fracture be not, or if it be only imperfectly set and improperly treated, the deformity and incapability of perfectly bending the hand remain. This fracture is dis- tinguished from dislocation by the natural position of the styloid process which has not lost its connexion with the carpus, which is movable and has its long axis separated only a little from the spoke-bone (J^ger (a).) The upper end of the fracture is somewhat displaced towards the side of extension or flexion ; but the fingers can be moved freely, and when the hand bends the joint ends of the spoke-bone follow the movement of the wrist- bones, by which this fracture is distinguished from dislocation (5). The fracture of the lower end of the spoke-bone is extremely well explained by the observations of Dctpuytren (c), and the opinion put forward by him and by Bkodie, | that it is mostly confounded with sprains and dislocations is confirmed by the more | recent observations of Surgeons. ■ [Fracture through the neck of the spoke-bone is not an uncommon accident, and very ] liable to be confused with dislocation of the bone forwards on the outer condyle of the upper-arm. It is accompanied witlt much distortion and swelling, and beiM naturally | deeply embedded in the muscles, is diflScult to make out satisfactorily. The head of > the bone must be grasped with the thumb and finger of one hand, whilst the other < draws the lower end of the bone from it by pulling at the hand alone, and then upon ’■ rotation if there be fracture the crepitation will be felt. (а) Above cited, vol. Hi. p. 275. I’extremite inferieiire du Radios. Paris, 1836; and i (б) Goykand, Memoire sur la Fracture de in Journal Hcbdom., 1836, Feb. (c) Above cited, vol. iv. p. 161.