437 CONSEQUENCES OF WOUNDS OF NECK. exhausted, and his situation thought so desperate that recourse was Imd to none of the means usually employed in such circumstances m order to support life. From the time he began to swallow he has gradually recovered some strength, and he can now ea^lan- tains, the chief fare of the negroes.” When Ryan had removed the dressings on his attempting to drink some water, the most part rushed out by the orifice ; ^ closely stopped up by the application of another s hand, he swallowed pretty freelj^ though not without some coughing It is always necessary to make a pressure of this kind when he takes any food. I had his mouth and nostrils closed for some time, but he breathed through the wound.” (p. 319-21.) , Hennen has mentioned a case in which “ the larynx was completely severed between the thvroid and cricoid cartilages, and the (esophagus laid open throughout halt its calibre'. ♦ * # I confess we were at a loss what to do; for when we attempted to close the wound he could not breathe at all. We therefore left it open, keeping his head re- clining forward, and expecting that he would soon be suffocated. This did not happen, however, for he breathed very well through the wound; but his greatest suffering pro- ceeded from thirst, as every thing he attempted to swallow came through the opening. We tried to introduce liquids through a flexible tube, but we succeeded very badly, on account of the great irritability of the fauces, trachea, and oesophagus. As there was great abundance of milk to be had, he was put in a bath of this fluid several times a day, and clysters of various nutritious fluids were assiduously thrown up. By these means he was entirely supported during the space of eighteen days, and nothing but common dressings applied to the wound. At the end of this period, the (esophagus be- came retentive when liquids were taken, and the breathing was beginning to be partly carried on through the mouth. From this time he rapidly recovered, excepting a con- siderable loss of voice and power of articulation.” (p. 364.)] 474. As wounds of the gullet very rarely heal by perfect agglutination of their edges, but the interspace is filled by the neighbouring parts, there usually remains some contraction at this part, or it bulges like a bottle, in either of which cases swallowing is difficult. 475. Stabs of the Gullet, if there be no accompanying severe injury, often heal without any symptoms. If the gullet be wounded at the lower part, the food that is swallowed may pass into the cavity of the chest. 476. Deep wounds at the back of the neck often produce a palsied condition, and also frequently a wasting, of the lower limbs. Wasting of the testicle and loss of the generative power have also been observed in these cases. [Of the severe nervous symptoms occasionally following gun-shot wounds of the throat. Hennen mentions an instance in an officer who received'a ball in “ the sternal portion of the 771. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, about an inch above its origin, which passed inwards towards the thorax, but no trace of its route could be discovered. On receiving the shot, he instantly dropped, not, however, perfectly senseless, but very much stunned. He felt as if he had received three distinct wounds, the most severe of which he referred to the arm of the wounded side, the two others, of nearly similar severity, to his throat and stomach.” He lost “an enormous quantity of blood, which also gushed copiously from the wound at every effort to cough or vomit. * * * His left arm hung nearly lifeless, with a pulse scarcely perceptible ; that of the sound arm was excessively quick, 120 in a minute, and very feeble. On the following day he was better, but had such an oppression along the course of the diaphragm, that he urged Hennen to cut for the ball, as he was certain, he said, it was the source of this pain. * * * He spat up a florid frothy blood very copiously, and the same issued occasionally from the wound. The efforts to vomit, and spasmodic catchings of the throat with globus and hiccup were very severe. On the third day the dyspnoea was almost suffocating, and the nervous symp- toms ran very high. On the fourth day his voice was entirely lost, till the sixth, when it began gradually to return. On the thirtieth day, after severe spasmodic bilious vomit- ing, the speech was again affected suddenly. His arm, which had, after the first twenty-four hours, given him occasional uneasiness, and in which he felt a pricklino' sensation on the inner side, was particularly painful at the period of this spasmodic attack. It had teen wrapped in flannel, and gentle friction had been employed to it; but upon examining it more particularly, it was found somewhat shrunk, and the fingers cold and nearly insensible to pressure. In about six weeks he went home to England, and continued improving.” (p. 3.08-61.)