253 IIIP-DISEASE,—THIRD STAGE. patient be laid down on his face, to examine whether the nates are lower on one side than tlie other; there is generally a difference of an inch or more on the diseased side.” (pp. 454, 55.) As to the mode of determining the special part of the joint which is diseased, Key (a) observes “ the motions of the joint, that give the patient most pain, are strongly indica- tive of the seat of the affection. In the earliest stage, before the soft parts could well be affected, if the disease commenced in the cartilage, eversion of the thigh and abduction of the limb from the other produce the greatest degree of suffering to the patient, while he can bear the joint to be flexed, and to be slightly inverted, without complaining. A similar indication of the liyanwntian teres being inflamed, is the pain sometimes ex- pressed on pressing the head of the femur against the acetabulum ; in its healthy state the ligament being lodged in the hollow of the acetabulum, receives but little pressure, but when it is swelled by inflammation, the cavity of the joint affords it less protection ; and. when pressure is made by forcing the head of the femur upwards, the ligament is compressed, and usually produces some degree of pain. The circumstance, too, of the ligamentiim teres being destroyed by ulceration, when the head of the bone and aceta- bulum are only partially ulcerated, may be considered as presumptive proof of it being very early engaged in the disease. There are few ca.ses of post-mortem, inspection of the hip-joint in an advanced stage of disease in which the ligamentiim teres is not found destroyed.” (pp. 232, 33)] 231. The disease gradually runs on to its third stage; the diseased e.xtreraity becomes shortened, either as a consequence of displacement of tlie head of the thigh-bone, or, if that and the hip-socket have been destroyed by caries, by the diminished head of the bone being drawn into the much expanded socket. Oftentimes the disease here terminates, the pain dimi- nishes, and on the spot where the displaced head of the thigh-bone lies a hollow is formed, or the head of the bone being retracted into the socket is anchylosed to it, and the patient consequently recovers with an incurable lameness. Most frequently, however, in this stage a painful fluctuating swelling occurs about the whole hip-joint, which ultimately breaks, and a quantity of pus is discharged; the suppuration becomes bad ; the probe in- troduced into the abscess openings indicates carious destraction, and the powers of the patient are worn out by hectic fever. But rarely do these apertures close; the suppuration then diminishes, pieces of bone are thrown off, «&c. &c. In order to measure aecurately the length of the extremity during the progress of this disease, we examine it most satisfactorily, according to Fricke’s method (b), in the fol- lowing manner The patient being lain on a table covered with a woollen rug, an assis- tant fixes the pelvis, and places his thumb beneath the anterior superior iliac spine, for the purpose of steadying the skin. A painted tape, or a wooden measure furnished with two moveable pointed transverse pieces, and a Paris measuring-scale, is now to be applied above the thumb of the assistant upon the spine, and being there fixed the other part of the measuring instrnment is to be carried down to, and immediately beneath, the onter ankle. The same measurement is repeated on the sound side. In the same manner then is the thigh measured, the measure being stretched to the upper end of the splint- bone ; and then the leg alone, which is especially necessary if the patient be unable to straighten the leg. [Abscesses of the hip-joint do not always burst externally. “ Sometimes the abscess ” says Astley Cooper (c), “ breaks into the pelvis, at other times into the rectum re ; in Anna- kcnli.aiiscs xu in) M.SS. Lcvtiirc-s on Surgery.