INFLAMMATION. 32 reduced to a molecular matter, -which re-enters the vessels, and thus complete reso- lution is produced. The disintegration of pus-corpuscles previous to absorption is evidently favoured by the pressure -which the abscess receives from the contraction of the filamentous and elastic tissues that form its walls. * * * It is probable also, by in- creasing the contraction of the integuments, as well as by removing fluid from the neighbourhood of the part, that irritants, blisters and cauteries, are so beneficial in the resolution of abscesses. It is suggested by Zimmerman, that the formation of an acid, as the lactic, in abscesses when fully formed, favours their disintegration. We have seen that acetic acid dissolves the cell-walls and causes the nucleus to appear in the form of granules: if lactic acid be produced, it would probably have the same effect. Alkaline solutions also, it is well known, dissolve pus-corpuscles, a circumstance that may explain the discutient effects of alkaline lotions and washes, and their beneficial operation in removing the incrustations from eruptive pustular diseases.” (p. 63-5.) As to the question “ What becomes of the molecular fibrin which thus re-enters the circulation ?” Bennett states that “ the observations of several German physicians, more especially of Schonlein and Zimmerman, have thrown much light upon it, and deter- mined that the changes which the urine undergoes in acute inflammatory diseases, bear a relation to the absorption of exuded blood-plasma in internal organs. Thus, in a case of pneumonia, Schonlein pointed out that the disappearance of dulness was accompanied by a turbid state of the urine, which contained a large amount of molecular fibrin, and was also highly coagulable by heat. Zimmerman has recorded instances where the turbidity and coagulability of the urine bore a marked relation to the diminution of suji- purative swellings. In some cases where purulent matter was apparently absorbed, fie had observed that the urine was coagulable from the presence of fibrin dissolved in it” (a). Hence it is. concluded “ that the molecules of the broken-up exudation, after cir- culating in the blood, are frequently eliminated by the kidneys, and make their exit from the system by the urine, sometimes entire, at others in a state of solution. * * * Occasionally the excess of fibrin may be eliminated by the skin, lungs, and bowels. In all cases it constitutes an important symptom of the crisis.” (p. 65.)] 8. Exudation {Exsudatio, Lat.; Ergiessung, Germ.; Exsudation, Fr.) is the outpouring of a larger quantity of serous fluid than the capil- lary vessels ordinarily exhale into the cellular tissue, into the parenchyma of organs, or into the cavities of the body. For the most part it occurs towards the end of the inflammation, or at least when it is subsiding. The fluid poured out (serum and coagulable lymph) differs in respect to its composition; often thin and transparent, often consistent, mingled with flocculi, and so on. The thicker part of this exudation (the coagu- lated albumen) not unfrequently unites neighbouring parts, vessels are prolonged into this interstitial substance, and adhesio7i is effected. If the fluid poured into the cellular tissue be only serous, then dropsical sicelling {oedema') is produced. The exudation occurs, especially often in serous membranes : not unfrequently also does a similar exudation accompany in- flammation of the mucous membranes. These exudations may be accom- panied by an inflammatoi’y or weakly condition of the capillary vessel. [The term “exudation,” as here explained by our author, is synonymous with “ eflusion,” as generally employed by British practitioners; but the latter, by defining the nature of the matter poured out as effusion of serum, of coagulable lymph, &c., make a distinction which the former does not. Neither of these terms, however, thus used, seem suffic^ ently pointed; but their employment as proposed by J. Hughes Bennett is unob- jectionable. “ Effusions," he says, “ no douht are very common; but, in the great majority of instances, they arise from venous obstruction, altogether independent of inflammatory phenonieua. * ^ * In all such cases the fluid is clear, holds no fibnn in solution, and on being evacuated shows no disposition to coagulate. • * * In matory effusions, on the other hand, the fluid is more or less turbid, containing in solution, and, if allowed to stand, flocculi swim in it, or sink to the bottom of the vessel. * • * Mere effusion, then, cannot itself be considered as characteristic of in- flammation. It may be the result of congestions non-iiiflammatory, or, if otherwise, (rt) Ueber den gerinnbarcn Ham ; in Ca8PKR*s Wochcnschrift, 1843, p* 345.