PHLEBITIS. 79 ■ matter, and the influence which it must produce on the general system when mixed with the mass of blood.” (p. 368.) And Bouij.iaud (a) also ascribes the typhoid symp- I toms to the presence of pus in the system. Travers (b), however, does not agree with these writers as to the existence of pus being the cause of the symptoms. He first distinguishes between the inflammation which terminates in the formation of pus, and I: that which terminates in depositing adhesive matter or lymph, extends to the trunks of the system, and sometimes, it is said, reaching the heart: the former condition is ; a protracted irritation, causing hectic and ending in exhaustion ; the latter a typhoid •; fever which, speedily producing delirium, terminates within a few days: cases of the i: first kind, though always dangerous, sometimes recover, but of the second, he believes, I: never. He then proceeds:—“ There have been many conjectures respecting the cause of the fatal termination of these cases, at which I confess I feel surprised; among 1, others, the inflammations, by extension, of the heart or the membranes of the brain j and the conveyance of pus into the circulation have been mentioned. ^ Not to insist ' on the innocuous quality of pus, it should be observed, that the most rapidly destructive II inflammation is that which has the true adhesive progress, in which no pus is secreted. I But, if we consider the importance of the veins in the economy, the extent of sur- I! t face which the collective arem of the venous trunks afford, larger, I imagine, than I; any of the shut sacs of the body, and the difiiised and disorganizing character of the !. inflammation, we can surely be at no loss to account for the disturbance of the system, j 1 It is an error to suppose that any quicker sympathy exists between the constitution and ; the venous, than the arterial or absorbent system. I say this because I have observed > something like that superstitious alarm which is excited by events that we do not . expect, and cannot explain, has been produced by the fatal catalogue of tied veins, and . a comparison of this with the generally successful cases of tied arteries. All the I mystery of veins is, as I have attempted to show, that they are indisposed to inflame, : but, when excited, inflame by continuity; and therefore it is that the constitution • sympathises so deeply.” (p. 286.) In a very excellent paper on phlebitis, Arnott (c) deduces from the collation of cases “ the total disproval of the assertion, that death ■ results from the extension of the inflammation of the vein to the heart.” In none of the : ten instances following venesection was the superior cava affected, much less the heart; . and, in half this number, inflammation had not reached to the subclavian or even to the axillary vein. In the cases where the inferior cava had become inflamed, the first is the only one in which the heart is represented to have been actually implicated ; and here, the deposition of lymph terminating at the entrance of the emulgent vein, the observation is, that there were marks of diffused inflammation extending to the right I auricle of the heart, but the signs of adhesive inflammation terminated as above.” * * * I With the exception of the instance just alluded to, I have only found two others in ' which it is alleged that the inflammation had extended from the vein to the heart, and in these the description is not very precise. Both cases are mentioned by Eibes (d). In one, occurring so far back as the year 1799, where the veins of the arm were in- ■ flamed in connexion with gangrene of the hand from chilblain, “ traces of inflamma- tion ” are stated to have been continued into the superior cava, and even to the interior of the right auricle and ventricle ; and, in the other instance, where the saphena evinced ‘ some signs of inflammation, in a case of mortification of the leg and foot, it is stated, in the same vague terms, that “ the right auricle and ventricle of the heart, as well as the inferior cava at its insertion into this organ, had manifest traces of recent inflamma- tion.” It is to be regretted that Ribes has not distinctly specified what the “ traces” were which he considered as indicative of inflammation in the lining membrane of the heart, (p. 42, 43.) From Arnott’s statement, it appears further that “ there are con- siderable differences in the extent of vein occupied by inflammation in fatal cases of phlebitis, ^metimes the disease has spread into several or most of the veins of a limb from that primarily affected ; at others it has not proceeded beyond the vessel in which 8 *1 originally appeared,” sometimes is “ limited to a few inches only of a vein,” and 5 thus “ justifies the inference that the dangerous consequences from phlebitis bear no ■ direct relation to the extent of the vein which is inflamed.” (p. 44.) As regards the 9 amtents of the inflamed vessels, “ in a number of them, where an open wound existed f in the vein, pus was discharged from it during life; whilst in fourteen cases out of 1 seventeen, pus, or pus in conjunction with lymph, was present in the vessel after death. i (ji)Recherch<?8 ClinlqucBpnur servir a I’Histoi ° /lA Revue Medicale, June. Ib24. (6) Essar on Wounds and Ligatures of Veins; i Iravkrs’s Surgical Essays, vol. addition. London, 1818. tvo. (c) A Pathological Inquiry Into the Secondary Effects of Inflammation of the Veins; in Medito- Chirurg. Trnns., vol. xv. 1829. (d) Revuo Modicale fur July, 1825.