634 ITCH. fulness of humours, (in which cases tlie disease is salutary, and its quick n suppression may cause dangerous symptoms,) bad state of the chyle, teeth- | ing, and scrofulous disposition. Crusta serpiginosa is always consequent on a complication of Cruita % lactea, with a syphilitic or herpetic disposition inherited from the parents ( or imbibed by the child from its nurse. It is always a serious disease may endure long, and produce dangerous symptoms. Autenbieth, thinks that the itch lies at the bottom of the Crusta serpiginosa, and that the latter is an itch of sucking children. This opinion is, in general, unfounded; for t itch in its perfect form is often found in sucking children, without Crusta serpiginosa, < and the latter again may be found without any causal relation with itch. 801. The treatment of milk crust is local and general, and must be ' Ij guided according to the cause. The food of the child must be changed, • | the state of the nurse’s health improved by suitable remedies, another • I nurse obtained, or the child weaned if the latter be not possible. J If there be acidity in the primes vice, magnesia is to be given ; and in i: scrofulous diseases the remedies antidotal to it. In slight cases this { treatment often effects the cure; but if it be insufficient, pansy is to be given, either as decoction of half a drachm of the fresh plant, with f milk, morning and evening ; or half a drachm of the dried plant in powder, with milk, or mixed with pap. In obstinate cases, or in Crusta serpiginosa, the preparations of antimony, of sulphur, or mercury, may be used, cautiously, according to the age and constitution of the patient; as well also as other remedies which purify the skin. In the local treat- ment care is always necessary, in order not to suppress the secretion too quickly; but after long continuance it must be specially attended to. For loosening the scabs, cream, mild salves, oil, softening decoctions are to be used, and then washing with sublimate water. In great sensibility of the skin and spreading of the ulcers, an ointment composed of flowers of zinc, white precipitate, with olive oil and lime water, a solution of liver of sulphur, and the like. Sulphur baths, also, in these cases do good service. VON Wedekind (a) thinks the use of the herba jacecB ineflBcient. Dabbing the sore twice a-day with sublimate water will always effect a cure, at the utmost in four weeks, without injuring the health. If swelling of the glands, and sores in the remain after the eruption is completely gone, these parts must be carefully washed with sublimate water; but rarely is cethiops antimonialis necessary. D.—OF THE ITCH. WicHMANN, J. E., Aetiologie der Kratze. Hannover, 1791. 8vo. Second Edit; with one copper plate. Guldener von Lobes, E. V., Beobachtungen iiber die Kriitze; gesammelt im .Vrbeits- hause zu Prag. Prag., 1795. 8vo. Second Edit. Hildebrand, Bemerkungen iiber den Kriitzauschlag. Hannover, 1797. Svo. Gal^s, Essai sur le diagnostic de la Gale, sur ses causes, &c. Paris, 1812. 4to. De Carbo, J., Observations pratiques sur les Fumigations sulphureuses. Vienne, 1819. 8vo. GALks, J. C., Mdmoire, Rapports et Observations sur les Fumigations sulphureuses. Second Edit. Paris, 1824. Svo. (a) IIuvELAND’a Journal, 1822, August, p. 27.