337 CHARACTER OF. shot, as it is called, from a fowling-piece discharged at a distance, which, as Dupuytrln states, lodged in the subcutaneous tissue, aud were of little consequence; some being ais- charged by suppuration, or removed by hand, whilst others remained quiet where they were lodged.—J. F. S.] 335. Gunshot wounds, like bruised and torn wounds, are at first accom- panied with sliglit pain (1). They bleed little, or not all; but the bleeding differs according to the way in which tlie artery is divided. If a large artery be very quickly divided by a bullet, the bleeding is severe ; but, on the contrary, scanty, if the artery be more bruised and torn by the diminished speed of the bullet (2). From tlie same circumstances the form of the shot- wound varies : with a quick ball it often rather resembles a cut or stab ; but a weak ball causes greater bruising, tearing, ecchymosis, and so on. Most commonly a greater or less degree of shock of the wounded part, or of the whole body, is connected with gun-shot wounds, especially if the ball strike above, or if the injury be in the neighbourhood of any impor- tant viscus. The shock consists in a diminished sensibility, or complete numbness of the injured part, or of the whole body; in faintness, trem- bling, cold sweats, vomiting, giddiness, small pulse, and so on (3). The symptoms which come on at a later period in shot-wounds are active in- fammation and swelling, fever, gangrene, nervous symptoms, and copious suppuration (4). [(1) “It has been supposed,” says Guthrie, “ that gim-shot wounds are not painful at he moment of infliction. This, as a general principle, is erroneous, although in many he pain is but trifling, whilst in others it is severe, and in some few rare instances the latient has been unconscious of the injury, (p. 3.) I am induced to conclude, from nany considerations, that the greater the velocity with which the projectile is impelled, he rounder and smaller the size, and the less the resistance opposed, the less will be the ensation of pain produced in the sufferer. But even this opinion must be received with onsiderable latitude ; and a cannon-ball will sometimes completely destroy the internal exture and life of a part, without tearing the skin or causing much pain, and yet the hot causing such injury have usually lost the greater part of the velocity with which it ras originally propelled. A musket-ball merely impinging against a soft part, without upturing the skin, invariably causes much more inability, than if it had actually entered r passed through it.” (p. 5.) 1“ According to theory,” says Guthrie, “ a gun-shot wound being a contused 1, ought not to bleed, in the first instance, because the parts are dead or deadened; f it should bleed, some great blood-vessel must be injured; whilst according to the authority, secondary haemorrhage was to be expected and dreaded at the moment ; separation of the sloughs. * • * Facts are often opposed to theory, and in no- more than on this point; Ibr although some gun-shot wounds bleed but little at oment of infliction, there is in the greater number more or less loss of blood, aud onally in considerable quantity, although there be no vessels of importance injured, lunds of the face and neck, the quantity lost is often considerable, and the clothes enerally covered with it. If the ball inflicting the injury should have come in :t with any solid substance, previously to its touching the human body, it may become of an angular, irregular, and even flattened form; the wound will be, in quence of this change in the ball, more lacerated than contused, and the loss of in all probability greater. * » * The bleeding from a simple flesh ivound soon 5, and does not return except some violence be done to the part; whilst in a case wounded artery, it sometimes continues until the patient dies, which is frequently ase when a large artery is partially divided. If the artery be completely divided, siderable quantity of blood is quickly lost, and the patient may also die; but, in •al, syncope or a state nearly allied to it supervenes, and the haimorrhage ceases aneously. The same thing occurs when a limb is carried away by a cannon-shot, )royes the safe-guard of the patient’s life; for serious and destructive bleeding has d, in most cases, before a tourniquet can be applied: and indeed, in the greater ler of cases, they are of no use whatever, for after the hemorrhage has been spon- iiwly suppressed, it does not in general return; and whenever it does return, the Dfs Me will certainly be lost, unless proper and effective assistance be at hand.” OL. 1. z