213 INFLAMMATION OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. ■with the motions of tlie joint. those parts of the cavity best fitted for containing and acting as reservoirs of synovia; and their high v^cidarity, and the pulpy nature of their serous covering, tend to strengthen this opinion, (pp. _42, 3.) That Havers’ opinion is correct as to the function of these vascular fringes, I think there is not a doubt, having had to-day (May 2, 184.5) the pleasure of being shown, by my laborious friend Rainey, our microscopist at St. Thomas’s museum, their minute structure on the synovial membrane of joints and in tendon sheaths, which, he tells me, he made out and showed to our mutual friend Grainger at least eighteen months since, altliough, till the present time, it has not been made public. He demonstrates the vessels contained in the ftinges as having a very different disposition from those secreting fat, and, being surrounded by an investment of epithelium, from which it is evident that the old idea of their being the synovial glands is correct, and that the modern notion of their being fat-vessels, held by some physiologists, is incorrect. Moreover, that when the sheath, at least of an adult tendon, is injected, these organs are the only parts which readily receive the injection, and appear like vascular lobules on a whitish ground, the other parts of the sheath scarcely exhibiting any injection.—j. f. s. “ No part of the body,” says Brodie, “ is much more frequently diseased than the syno- vial membranes. This is what their anatomical structure and functions might lead us to expect, since we find that living organs are more subject to have their natural functions deranged, in proportion as they are more vascular, and as they are employed in a greater degree in the process of secretion.” (p. 8.)] At the beginning the pain is trifling, and, although affecting the whole joint, is more severe at one part. Frequently, however, it is very violent, motion of the joint is impossible, and fever occurs. After some time I swelling comes on, which fluctuates differently, according to the form of the joint, and is more evident at those points where the soft parts afford least resistance. If the inflammation be long continued, or recur fre- quently, the swelling becomes gradually larger and harder, depending on the loosening and hardening of the synovial membrane and ligaments; severe pain, sleeplessness, and hectic fever come on; the swelling bursts at differ- ent parts, and the powers of the patient are exhausted. In the most favourable cases anchylosis takes place. If the inflammation be very insi- dious, and do not go on to loosening of the synovial membrane, it may terminate in dropsy of the joint and weakening of the ligaments ; so, when the inflammation specially affects the ligaments, thickening of them, with impeded motion and greater or less bending of the joint, swellings, and knots from deposition of earthy matter, (especially in gouty inflammation,) may occur. (Chelius here considers as one, the two forms of diseased synovial membrane which have been distinguished by Brodie; the one as “consisting simply in a morbid action,” and the other, or “ others, in which the morbid action produces a morbid change of anatomical structure.” (p. 76.) The former, arising simply from common inflamma- tion, which may be resolved entirely, or terminate in one or other of the usual conse- quent of inflammation, or which may degenerate into the second form, in which a specific change of structure takes place. It will, therefore, be necessary to point out these different forms.—j. f. s. _ Common inflammation of the synovial membrane may be either acute or chronic, or it may assume the sub-acute form, which is by far the most frequent, and generallv passes by the name of chronic inflammation. As to the comparative occurrence of synovial inflammation, Brodie observes: “Al- though no peni^of life is altogether exempt from this disease, it does not occur equally seldom attacks young children, becomes less rare as they of wW of puberty, and is very frequent in adult persons. This is the reverse Ld a <liseases to which the joints are liable, inl^UUor circumstances will be found of some importance to the surgeon, in assisting him to form a ready diagnosis.” (p. 20.) ° iurv*"^^ may arise spontaneously, but mostly it results from in- E?l2 immiirM".' observes, that “ the swelling p ace immediately after, or at the same instant, with the first attack of pain; there is