377 STAGES OF. (I complications to wliich wounds are subjected. It presents itself in various li forms, either as cramp, attacking alt tlie muscles, or only the flexing and )j'extending muscles. There are, therefore, distinguished, 1. letanus, in wliich tliere is simultaneous spasm of the whole body, and the patient * stretched straight out lies perfectly immovable; 2. lumprosthotonos^ in i( which the bending muscles of the trunk are affected with cramp, and the I) body is brought together forward in a half circle; 3. Opisthotonos, where < the trunk is curved backwards ; and, 4. Pleurosthotonos, in which, by the ^ spasmodic contraction of the muscles on one side, the body is curved to ij| that side. Tetanus is most frequent; Emprosthotonos more rare than Opisthotonos, and Pleurosthotonos least common of all. * [“The traumatic tetanus,” says Travers, “ is a more severe disease than the idiopa- ! thic tetanus. It has a mild and slow, and a severe and rapid form ; the former gradual in approach, often partial, or partially diffused, unattended by fever or even quickened circulation in the intervals of the paroxysms, losing much of its danger after four days’ duration, and disposed to become chronic and curable by support; the latter universal, with shorter intervals of spasm, attended with greatly accelerated circulation, in almost all cases resisting remedy, and speedily even suddenly destructive. The period of ac- cession after injury varies from an hour to ten days or a fortnight. In some rare in- stances it is almost immediate. The case of a negro is recorded by Dr. Robison, in which the spasms commenced in a quarter of an hour after the infliction of a punc- ture with a fragment of chinaware; and some years ago a man was brought into St. 'I’liomas’s Hospital for a recent fracture, in a state of universal tetanus of tremendous violence, which proved fatal in a few hours. The fracture was an oblique one of the thigh-bone, which, penetrating the rectus muscle, was continually playing through its belly in a see-saw. (p. 292.) In flesh wounds the period of commencing cicatrization, after the mundify ing process is completed, seems to be most liable to the attack of spasm ; not unfrequently the punctured wound, as from a nail, wears the aspect of being healed, and is almost forgotten when the spasms set in.” (p. 294.) Brodie (a) mentions the seventeenth day, as the latest period after the accident, in which he had known tetanus come on. Sir James M'Grigor (6) notices a case twenty-two days after, and Blane (c) speaks of it as happening within a month.] 371. The course of tetanus is sometimes more quick, sometimes more tedious, usually three stages may be distinguished. In the_^rs^ stage spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the larynx and of the neck appears; the voice is altered, swallowing prevented, without apparent inflammation of the gullet, the muscles of the face are drawn, and subsequently there is a continued spasm of the masticatory muscles or lock- jaw {trismus). Less constant symptoms are shooting pains over tlie whole body, stiffness of the limbs, trembling, subsultus tendinum, and so on. The wound often becomes irritable, dry; but often is unchanged. 37 2. In the second stage the cramps increase, and the proper form of tetanus sets in. The trismus becomes so severe that the jaws can be opened neither by the patient nor by other aid. The region of the masseter muscles IS tense, painful, and swollen, the lips are thick and drawn together; the eyelids are closed, the pupils are very narrow, and the dread of light very great; the eyeball is motionless, often moved convulsively, and at last directed completely upwards. The countenance of the patient is entirely . altered, heavy, generally bright red ; and one or other corner of the mouth I IS drawn. The belly is mostly hard and drawn in; there is retention of I stools (1) and also of urine. P The most severe pains come on by paroxysms in the course of the nerves _ and of the limbs, with wandering cramps, and convulsions. At first these W paroxyms are rare ; but subsequently they recur with scarcely any per- aI Lecture; in Medical Gniette, vol. ii. p* «W4. (/;) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 453. (rj Idsenses of Seamen.