422 TREPHINING. wliicli can be completely surrounded by the crown, a disc of sole leather is employed for the more perfect direction of the crown, with an edge so broad that the finger point of an assistant may fix it properly. In the hollow of this disc the crown is placed, and carefully directed till it have formed a sufficient groove, when the disc may be removed. The piece of bone is to be raised with an elevator, or with a pair of pincers. Hennemann (a) proposes a crown director instead of the pyramid for a more perfect' guidance of the crown. 443. If it be necessary to trepan on the frontal sinuses, the instrument must be so arranged that it shall come at the same time on the deep part of the frontal sinuses, where the anterior is farthest from the posterior bony table, as upon the inner table above, and thus perforate it at the same time; or the external table may be first cut through with a large crown, and removed, and then the internal perforated with a smaller one. [Trepanning on the frontal sinuses, at least in civil practice, is rarely necessary; The usual blows from falls, or with blunt or even sharp instruments, rarely causing de- pression of the inner table of the skull, and therefore not producing compression of the brain, nor requiring operation. Should, however, such a case happen, I should prefer Chelius’s second mode of treatment, to wit, removing first the outer and afterwards the inner table.—J. F. S.] 444. For the purpose of taking out the piece of bone the tirefond is to be screwed into the hole made for it {par, 440) ; it is to be held with the thumb and fore finger of the left hand close to the edge of its screw, and to be turned about with the same fingers of the right hand at its handle. When the tirefond is sufficiently screwed in, (without injuring the dura mater,') the piece of bone can be raised from that side where it is still fast. If any irregularities or splinters remain on the edge of the internal table they must be removed with the lenticular, Avhich must be held with the whole hand, its head placed between the skull and dura mater, and its edge pressed against the pieces of bone to be removed. The thumb must be set against it to render this motion safe. [The mode of removing the depressed and detached hone has already been mentioned . ' (par. 441.) If any points remain projecting from the edge of the fracture, they may ^ be removed either with bone nippers or with Key’s saw, a spatula having been pre- • ' viously introduced between the bone and dura mater, to defend the latter from injury. . The lenticular is never used by English surgeons.—J. F. S.] 445. If several crowns are applied (1), it must be so managed that either • i; a fracture of different width should remain between two openings, and wliicli i •' may be taken away, either with bone-nippers or with Key’s saw, or if a it piece, not directly corresponding to the crown of the trejian, is to be jier- - '■ forated, the crown must be so placed that it shall play over only half of t the already existing opening (2). It is also advised, for the purpose of not i always removing round pieces of bone, to take away, with Key’s saw, an n| irregular piece of bone, proportioned to the injury. [(1) It very rarely happens, so far as I have had opportunity of observing, that in a depressed fracture the application more than once is requisite. I have, however, in a i very few instances known it needful to apply it a second time; perhaps it might have ' been from the first selected spot having been chosen with insufficient judgment, or perhaps that the depressed bone was so circumstanced that it could not be raised with- out simultaneous elevation at both sides. The rule, however, should be to make as few « trephine holes as possible, so as to avoid increasing the quantity of exposed dura mater. And, if practicable, no undepressed bone, in case of fracture, should be removed. (a) Beitriige zur Mcdicin und Cliirurgie, vol. i. part i. p. 145.