748 RECTO-UKETHRAL AND VESICAL FISTULA; wliicli causes inflanimation and excoriation, and an evil reaction upon thi i i general constitution ; or on going to stool, some thin faical matter, oftei., i only wind or apple or grape-stones, even cherry-stones, which I lav,, noticed in one case, pass through the urethra. If the fistidous openingIjo neither large, nor of long standing, and tlie constitution of the patient rio.< bad, nor liimself old, it may be hoped that by tlie continued in-lying of an elastic catheter unstopjded and properly fastened, by placing the patient m j his side with his buttocks raised, by constantly emptying and cleansing th(( rectum with clysters, by observation of great quiet and a strengthening regimen, the closure of the fistula may be effected. This, howeveri rarely happens, specially in old persons. If tliis fistula result from wound oi< the rectum in cutting for the stone, so is its division from the point of injurjr to the end of the rectum., its most proper treatment (1). Dupuytren (a'* has in recto-vesical fistula effected complete cure, or at least considerablt I improvement, by applying the actual cautery and caustic remedies; it i which he introduces his speculum ani (a metallic ring) well oiled intol the rectum, seeks for the seat of fistula, and then introduces the cautery? into the fistula, even to the bladder. The lunar caustic is to be used ici tlie same way. After forty-eight hours, the cauterization is to be repeated.-* In the interim, attention must be paid to the removal of the urine anda faecal matter by cooling diet, by the careful use of soothing clj'sters, andi by tlie introduction of an elastic catheter into the bladder. Five or six-: 5 cauterizations are often sufficient to improve the ailment, so that the in escape of tlie urine is much diminished. The application of caustic may be ’ r avoided by cutting the sphincter muscles on one or both sides (Jaeger.) (1) Desault and Dupuytren have employed this mode of treatment with good resulU: Zang (6) considers it preferable to the division of the gut; I have not however, seen, i any cure result from it. I have seen a case in which, after the operation for the stone by! i another Surgeon, the fistula withstood this treatment with the in-lying of the catheter,v-; but after a year and a-half, healed of itself. In a recto-urethral fistula Astley Cooper (c) made a cut upon a staff introduced into' the bladder on the left side of the raphe till he felt the bulb, then thrust a double-edged,* knife into the perincetim, between the prostate and rectum, so as to divide the fistnlons i li opening, between it and the urethra. il have once operated for recto-vesical fistula with considerable benefit to the patient,i I think, had he allowed the treatment to have been persisted in, that he would have,' ( been perfectly cured. The object of my operation was, by dividing the m. sphincter an i from the fistula into the periiwum to produce perinmal fistula, which would be much more easily managed; and I had hoped that the circular fibres of the rectum above the 11 divided sphincter would assume the function of a sphincter, and thus retain the stools. - How far I succeeded the following recital will show ; and I have been induced to give - it at length, as it well shows the distressing circumstances attendant on cases of this i kind. Case.—S. B., aged 32 years, a labourer, of temperate habits and healthy, but very: excitable, and subject to occasional attacks of dyspepsia, was admitted into Isaac’s Ward • Oct. 3, 1837. Seventeen years before he was cut for the stone by tlie lateral operation f and the rectum wounded in cutting into the staff. This did not seem to interfere muM • ’S with his recovery, as a fortnight after the operation he was sitting up in a chair able to help himself at a pump, but in doing this he found his trowsers wetted ^ | flow of urine through the rectum. W'^hen he got sufficiently well to move about, he : could never pass his water, whilst in the upright posture, without wetting himself, « the urine passed more freely by the rectum tlian by the urethra. Since the operation be has never been capable of retaining his urine beyond two hours, more commonly for not more than one, and occasionally for a still shorter period. At times all the water is voided by the anus, and not more than a drop or two by the urethra. Retween five (a) Ammon Parallele dcr frnnzosischen und deutschen Chirurgie. Leipz., 1S23, p. 111. g Above cited, vol. iii. pt. ii- p- 230. Above cited. i