WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 476 drink some warm water, wliich was soon thrown up with a good deal of barley in solid grains, and some pieces of half-digested meat. More water being given, was also returned tinged with blood. It was determined to give nothing more by the mouth, but an emollient clyster was thrown up, which brought away a considerable quantity of fa;ces. A second clyster was then injected, containing two drachms of laudanum, which was for the most part kept,up. Warm fomentations were applied; the wound lightly dressed; and he was directed to lie as much as possible on the injured side, to favour the discharge. On the following day he was in much the same state ; towards morning he liad some rigors and very violent spasms; complained of cold over the whole body, and a con- stant gnawing about the pit of the stomach. A laxative clyster was injected, and produced a copious evacuation ; after which a veal-broth clyster, with two drachms of laudanum, was thrown up twice in the day, and retained. Hot flannels dipped in milk and water were applied to his arms and legs, and hot bricks to his feet. He pa.ssed a little water twice. April 2. Had passed a restless night, and complained of intense thirst, with a constant burning pain in the lower part of his stomach; hiccough and spasm less frequent; pulse 120, small. An injection of six drachms of Epsom salt with broth was thrown up, and brought away a considerable quantity of soft slimy faeces, containing small bits of clotted blood enveloped in mucus. Clysters of broth and laudanum were thrown up during the day, and retained; and he was allowed some orange pulp to allay his thirst, and barley water with lemon juice to wash his mouth. April 3. Very early this morning, whilst supported in bed to wash his mouth, he acci- dentally swallowed some of the liquor, and was seized with violent retching accompanied with convulsions of the chest; but threw up nothing, except a small quantity of bloody fluid. He was covered with cold sweat, and the pulse low and intermitting. Warm fomentations were applied to the stomach, and veal broth with two drachms of laudanum thrown up, by which he was relieved. Injections of broth were given at intervals of six or eight hours. On the following day the hiccough, retching, and other unfavourable symptoms, had ceased; but he still complained of fixed pain in the stomach, with a sensation of heat and soreness extending from the wound towards the middle of the belly; pulse 110, small; thirst. The external wound had began to discharge good matter. The same plan of treatment was continued, but the clysters from four to five pints a day; fomentations, and bathing the hands and feet with milk and water. He passed about three pints of urine in the course of the day. Purging salts were occasionally added to the clysters, to stimulate and cleanse the bowels; but after the fourth day there was scarcely any feculent matter discharged, but only a small quantity of viscid bile. On the tenth day after the injury he was very sensibly relieved; his thirst and febrile symptoms abated; pulse 90, and regular; and he was in good spirits. As he wished for some calf s-foot jelly, about half a pint, lukewarm, was given, which had no bad . consequences; but the first time of swallowing was followed by frequent eructations and , a great discharge of air, which he said produced rather a grateful sensation than other- • wise. Next day he had milk for breakfast, and chicken broth for dinner. The nutritive • i clysters were continued till the sixteenth day, but less frequently; and for the next fort- ■ i nio-ht he lived wholly on bread and milk and light broth ; after which he was allowed 11 chTcken, veal, and other meats easy of digestion. The external wound had healed for some time, and he recovered very gradually. The only inconvenience he suffered was n from costiveness, which was relieved by gentle laxatives and stimulating clysters; and !; a sense of soreness and stricture which extended from the external wound towards the middle of the belly, and particularly felt after a violent expiration or any sudden exten- - sion of the body, when, to use his owu expression, his side was drawn inwards and ; upwards. The latter Scott supposed to have originated from an adhesion of the in- - flamed stomach to the peritoneum. It went off gradually as he recovered strength, . though still felt in a certain degree in stooping, walking quick, or any great exertion of • the body. , , In the following case Travers (a) tied a ligature around the wound of a protrudea - stomach, and the patient recovered:— Case 2.—M. G., aged fifty-three years, was admitted into St. Thomas s Ilospital Oct. 18,1819. Having attempted about noon to destroy herself, by wounding her belly ' with a razor. A large transverse wound divided the parietes to the extent of three - inches, a little below the navel, in a line inclining obliquely downwards from lelt to (a) A Ta-se of Wound with Protrusion of tlie some very valuable observations on Woundsofthe Stomach ; in Kdinburgh Journal of .Medical Science, Moniach from various cause?, vol. i. p. p* til* ItioO. Accompanying which are