338 SHOCK. (3) With regard to the shock, Guthrie makes the following very interesting obser- vations:—“ When an organ of importance has been injured, and the blow severe, as by a cannon or grape shot, or shell, or from the fracture of a bone, and even from the attention being directed to the receipt of an injury from the situation in which the soldier may be placed, a peculiar constitutional alarm ensues, in a much greater degree than would follow an injury of equal magnitude precisely in the same spot from any other cause. It atfects alike, although not in an equal manner, the coward and the brave, the man of learning and the unlettered soldier. * * * On the receipt of a wound which hai the appearance of being fatal, or if circumstances of situation can give rise to such an idea in the patient’s mind, the constitutional affection is often as manifest at first as when some vital organ has been injured; but it subsides much sooner, and offers us, in doubt- ful cases, a diagnostic symptom of the greatest value and certainty. * • * The continu- ance of the constitutional alarm or shock ought to excite great suspicion of scriouc i injury; and when wounds have been received in such situations, or bear such appear- . ances as render it doubtful whether any parts of vital importance have been injured or • not, the surgeon may sometimes make up his mind as to the fact from it alone, when i other S5Tnptoms more indicative of the injury are wanting; and under all such circum- stances he ought to be particularly guarded in the prognosis or opinion given to the patient • or his fHends, although every other appearance should even lead him to suppose the ? injury to be less serious.” (pp. 10, 11.) Hennen remarks, that “ some men will have a a limb carried off or shattered to pieces by a cannon-ball, without exhibiting the slightest t( symptoms of mental or corporeal agitation; nay, even without being conscious of the ? occurrence; and when they are, they will coolly argue on the probable result of the e injury ; while a deadly pialeness, constant vomiting, profuse perspiration, and universal i tremor, will seize on another on the receipt of a slight flesh-wound. This tremor, which k has been so much talked of, and which, to an inexperienced eye, is really terrifying, is s soon relieved by a mouthful of wine or spirits, or by an opiate, but above all by the s tenderness and sympathising manner of the surgeon, and his assurances of his patient’s 'i safety.” (p. 33.) (4) “ Gun-shot wounds, from whatever cause,” observes Hunter, “ are in generalti contused wounds, from which contusion there is most commonly a part of the solids! surrounding the wound deadened, as the projecting body forced its way through theses solids, which is afterwards thrown off in form of a slough, and which prevents such! wounds from healing by the first intention or by means of the adhesive inflammation, J from which circumstance most of them must be allowed to suppurate. This does notiJ always take place equally iu every gun-shot wound, nor in every part of the samei wound ; and the difference commonly arises from the variety in the velocity of the bodyi projected; for we find in many cases where the ball has passed with little velocity,] which is often the case with balls even at their entrance, but most commonly at the parU last wounded by the ball, that the wounds are often healed by the first intention. Gud-j shot wounds, from the circumstance of commonly having a part killed, in general do not- inflame so readily as those from other accidents; this backwardness to inflame will bf' in the proportion that the quantity of deadened parts bear to the extent of the wound >i from which circumstance the inflammation is later in coming on, more especially whea| a ball passes through a fleshy part with great velocity, because there will be a great deas deadened in proportion to the size of the wound. * * ’" On the other hand, where ^1 ball has fractured some bone, which fracture in the bone has done considerable miscWe i to the soft parts independent of the ball, then there will be nearly as quick inflammatioM as in a compound fracture of the same bone, because the deadened parts bear no prov portion to the laceration or wound in general.” (pp. 523, 24.) Instances, however, do now and then occur, in which the wounds made by gun-shot ana perfectly regular and, more or less, like those made by a cutting instrument. Several sncl» have been mentioned by H. Larrey (a) ; and in one case, a fragment of shell carrieivi away a piece of the skin of the chest, leaving a regular elliptical wound, rcserabha-it that produced by amputation of the breast. The edges were brought together withoo' sutures, and was quickly cured, (p. 138.)] 336. The direction of the shot-wound varies e.xtraordinarily, anM depends on the speed of the ball, on the different thickness and resistanc - of the parts whicli the ball strikes. Its course is usually indicated ex- ternally by a dark streak, or a certain emphysematous crackling may b observed by feeling along the shot track. Experience has provetl tlu‘ (rt) Hist. Chir. du Sit'ge rie la CitadcUe d'Anvcrs. 8vo.