616 ULCEUS; only be applied when all inflammation has subsided. Biett, Clocquet, and othety have used it with much advantage; and according to Cuillviek and Boulay, the ill smell is immediately got rid of on its application (Pigne), 755. The Callous Ulcer {Ulcus callosum, Lat. ; callbse GcscJmur Germ. ; Ulcere calleux, Fr.) is surrounded by a whitish, dry, insen- sible edge, not unfrequently of considerable thickness, and cartilaginous character. This callosity often spreads over the tvhole ulcer. The cause of this change is a want of blood or of the nourishing juices in the cdgee of tlie ulcer ; hence these callosities occur most commonly in old person#, in |those places where naturally the course of the blood is languid, or is prevented by accidental pressure, in bad treatment, in the improper use of relaxing ointments, or as consequent on a continued irritable condition of the edges of the ulcer, whereby a stagnation of the juices, and a similar change is produced, as in induration. Such callosities pre- vent the cure of the ulcer, and must therefore be resolved or removed. Only when they are not very hard, and quite insensible, softening, and at the same time exciting, applications of aromatic vegetables may be em- ployed, the empl. de cicala cum ammoniaco,—mercuriale,—gummosun, saponatum, diachylon cum gummi; a solution of muriate of ammonia. If these remedies be of no avail, then we must proceed to the use of es- charotics, as butyr of antimony, lunar caustic, caustic ammonia, a solution of caustic potash ; scarification, or complete removal of the callosity with the knife, if the situation of the ulcer permit. 756. The (Edematous Ulcer {Ulcus cedematosum, Lat.; oedema- lose Geschwiir, Germ.; Ulcere edemateux, Fr.) is, in its origin, con- nected with dropsical swelling, which receives the impress of the finger; its edges are flabby, pale, often even cedematous; the granulations pale, and the secretion of a watery ichor very copious. The causes are either local, mechanical, or internal, as pressure on the vessels retaining the blood, general or local weakness, lymphatic habit, and the like. The treatment of this ulcer requires, besides the removal of the cause, and beside those remedies which alter the torpid character of the sore, a con- tinued compressing bandage, by swathing the whole part on which the ulcer is situated. 757. Fungous Ulcers ( Ulcera fungosa, Lat.; schwammigten Gesch- wiire. Germ.; Ulceres fongueux, Fr.) are beset with growths either on their entire surface, or only on certain parts, or at their edges, which vai-y considerably as to their condition, being sometimes flabby, pallid, or deep red, insensible, and bleed easily ; sometimes they are of a more firm character, have a bluish red colour, and are very sensitive. The former are merely unnatural growths of the granulations, but the latter must be considered as malignant degenerations. The causes of this fungous de- generation may therefore be, long-continued torpid condition of the ulcer, improper use of debilitating remedies, too slight bandaging, the neigh- bourhood of carious bone, or the carcinomatous condition of the ulcer. The removal of such growths, which is necessary for healing the ulcer, is eflected, if the granulations be of moderate growth, by a simulta- neous treatment corresponding with the vital disposition of the ulcer, by a suitable compression with dry charpie, and frequent touching "hi* lunar caustic; but if they be more considerable and exist as a malig- nant degeneration, they must be removed by the energetic application o escharotics. by cutting off, or by lying. The usual escharotics are Im f