BELOW THE GREAT TROCHANTER. 573 ' 683. Fracture of the tliigh-bone is always a severe accident, as the broken ends are retained in proper contact witli great difficulty. The 1. cure takes place most commonly with deformity and shortening’ of the IK limb, especially in oblique fractures, and those which occur in the upper p and lower third of the thigh-bone. Compound fractures are so much , more difficult to treat. ; [In simple fractures of the thigh-bone except with great obliquity I have rarely i;: found difficulty in retaining the broken ends in place, and in effecting the union with- ; out deformity and with very little and sometimes without any shortening. For the !( contrary results the medical attendant is mostly to be blamed, as they are usually H consequent on his carelessness or ignorance. ,) Compound fracture of the thigh is a very serious accident; its danger depends upon f: the injury of the soft parts and extent of the wound, and also upon the obliquity of the a: fracture and its disposition to drive through the wound or among the muscles. These ! are points which must be well weighed in deciding whether amputation should be h': performed or not. If the patient be young and healthy we may often undertake the cure without amputating, and with fair prospect of a happy result.—J. F. S.] d 684. The difficulty of retaining the broken ends in complete contact ll till consolidation is effected, has led to various modes of treatment, f 1. The Contentive Apparatus, with splints, and the limb in a straight positioti. The setting is to be effected by extension and counter-extension, i , as in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone (par. 674.) The Surgeon, U- standing on the outside of the thigh, endeavours, with both hands, to if bring the broken ends into their proper place, and to equalize all irre- ;li. gularities. The apparatus is to be slipped beneath the limb, kept in if a proper degree of extension. It consists of five double bands, a piece 1 of linen, as long as the limb, and sufficiently broad to include the splints on both sides, of Scultetus’s bandage, of three splints, and their cor- responding chaff pads, of which one should extend from the crest of the hip-bone to beyond the sole of the foot; the second from the upper inner part of the thigh, just as far; and the third from the groin to the knee. At the seat of fracture two wetted compresses are to be applied, which should surround three-fourths of the thigh ; the whole limb is then to 1 : be swathed in Scultetus’s bandage, from below upwards, and the splints li! rolled up in the piece of linen on both sides, till they are brought to two to »ii three fingers’ breadth from the limb. The interspace is then filled up with *: the pads, the third splint laid with the chaff pad upon the front of the ?: thigh, and the .splints surrounded with the bandages, of which three are to [ be put on the thigh, and two on the leg. The foot should be supported in fi a stirrup (1). This apparatus is to be wetted from time to time with lead ' wash, replaced every six days up to the fiftieth, or, in old people, to the I sixtieth day (2). If the callus have become sufficiently firm, which is 0 known by the patient being able to raise the limb freely, rendering it ir some support with his hands at the fractured part, the apparatus may be II removed, the whole limb enveloped in a circular bandage, and the patient 0 allowed to go about carefully with crutches for several days. [(1) In general, I think the straight position in treating fracture of thes haft of thethigh- 'K bone is far preferable to either of the other methods. But the plan I employ is rather ^ 1 different from that here advised. I use four splints, flat pieces of deal about one-sixth II of an inch thick, and three or four fingers wide, which any carpenter can quickly fur- ' nish; the hind one should reach from the tuberosity of the haunch-bone, against and f j immediately below which it should rest, to within four inches of the sole, so as to be I’l quite free of the heel; the front one should extend from just below the groin, not quite ' I so low as the bend of the ankle-joint, and should have two or three transverse saw-tracks