206 INFLAMMATION OF (^Fungus Arliculorum, Lat.; Gliedschwamm, Germ.; Fongus Articulaircs, , Fr.,) White Swelling of the Joints, ( Tumor Alims Articulorum, Ijat. ; PFeisse Gelenhgeschwulst, Germ.; Tumeurs Blanches, Fr.,) Arthrocace, Dislocatioiis from their original jAace, {^Luxationes SpontanecB, Lat.; Ver- renkungen aus inneren Bedingungen, Germ.; Luxations Spontanees, Fr.) In reference to joints, Hunter (a) observes:—“They being circumscribed cavities, are subject to the same diseases as other circumscribed cavities, as inflammation, &c.; but their peculiar structure sometimes renders their consequenees different. Nature is very little disposed to take on the adhesive inflammation, because the necessary conse- quence would be a loss of motion in a part originally intended for motion. This makes inflammation in joints so much worse than many other circumscribed cavities; for, as before observed, if adhesive inflammation does not come on, the inflammation and con- sequent suppuration must spread through the whole cavity. • ♦ * Inflammation in joints is generally of more serious consequence than in other parts ; even when resolved it is disagreeable; yet this is always to be wished for.” (pp. 519, 20.) 199. Inflammation of Joints {Arthrophlogosis, Lat. ; Gelenkentzun- dung. Germ.; Inflammation des Articulations, Fr.) is either idiopathic or symptomatic, and its course acute, subacute, or chronic. The causes are external injury, cold, and general diseases, which either of themselves or after the previous operation of local mischief produce disease of the joint, i as scrofulous, gouty, rheumatic affections, syphilis, diseases of the skin, | metastasis, suppression of the ordinary secretions, and so on. Tlie reason j of their beginning sometimes in the soft, sometimes in the hard parts, de- . pends perhaps on the different relations in which the general and local causes t stand to the production of the disease. A.—OF THE INFLAMMATION OF THE LIGAMENTS. 200. When inflammation takes place in the fibrous structure of a joint, {Injlammatio Ligamentorum, Lat.; Entzundung Gelcnkbcinder, Germ.; [ Injiammation des Ligaments, Fr.,) it is only in certain stages confined to t that alone ; but, in its further progress, it spreads to the cellular tissue sur- rounding the capsule of the joint without, and the synovial membrane within. Its course is more or less acute or chronic. [In regard to the rarity of affections of the ligaments independent of other parts of a joint, Bbodie observes:—“ The ligaments cannot be regarded as more exempt from dis- ease than the fibrous membranes, which they very nearly resemble in their texture. It is not improbable that some of the pains which take place in the joints, in syphilitic affections, may depend on a diseased action occurring in the ligaments; and there can be no doubt that the long continued symptoms which occasionally follow a severe sprain, depend on these same parts being in a state of slow inflammation, in consequence of some of their fibres having been ruptured or overstretched. I cannot say that I have never seen a case where disease, independently of these causes, has originated in the ligaments; but I certainly have never met with a case where it has been proved to have done so, by dissection, and it may be safely asserted that this is a rare occurrence, and not wh^ happens in the ordinary diseases to which joints are liable.” (p. 7.)] Among the “variety of cases,” mentioned by Mayo, “in which tne ligaments appear to be the parts exclusively or principally affected,” is one arising from a blow on the knee, in which, “ after many weeks confinement to the bed or sofa, the least exertion was followed by heat and pain in the knee. The joint was, in a slight degree, larger than the sound knee; but it contained no fluid ; and pressure of tlie articular surfaces against each other, produced no pain. It caused no pam to rest his weight upon the extended knee ; but when he stood on the other leg, and allowed the diseased knee to hang or swing, he felt uneasiness in it, which was greatly increased by tNvisting the knee. When he remained perfectly still, he would experience no uneasy feeling in the joint for several days together; and then, without any visible cause, the joint became a little heated and the skin slightly reddened. The same effects followed any deviation from the strictest (fi) Lectures on Surgery; in Palmer's Edition of his Works, vol. i.