700 CARIES OF been developed on the internal, trepanning is often necessary in order to relieve the collection of beneath the skull, or even to remove the , whole diseased part of the bone. In caries of the mastoid j)rocess espe- i cial care must be taken for the proper escape of the pits, so that it should not collect in the drum. If the dura mater itself be ulcerated or covered I with unhealthy granulations, it must be bound up with slightly stimu- lating remedies, with decoction of bark and lime water, with digestive ointments and the like, and the vital activity assisted by aromatic appli- cations. B.—OF CARIES OF THE TEETH. Fadchabd, P., Chirurgien Dentiste. Paris, 1786. 2 vols. Berdmobe, T., a Treatise on the Disorders and Deformities of the Teeth and Gums. London, 1768. 8vo. Peenk, J. J., Lehre von den Krankheiten der Zahne. Wien, 1779. 8vo. Hunter, John, The Natural History of the Human Teeth, explaining their struc- ture, use, formation, growth and diseases. London, 4to. Bucking, J. J., Vollstandige Anweisung, zum Zahnausziehen. Stendal, 1782. 8vo. '■ With copper plates. JooRDAiN, Traite des Depots dans le Sinus Maxillaire, des Fractures, et des Caries de I’une et de I’autre Machoire. Paris, 1761. 12mo. La Forgue, L , Semeiologie Buccale et Buccamancie, on Traites des Signes qu’on trouve a la Bouche. Paris, 1814. 8vo. Sebre, j. j., Darstellung aller Operationen der Zahnarzneikunst. Berlin, 1804. 8vo. With copper plates. Galolete, j. F., Blicke in das Gehiet der Zahnarzneikunde. Mainz, 1810. 8vo. Anatom. Physiolog. und Chirurgische Betrachtungen fiber die Zahne. Mainz, 1813. Maury, C. J., Manuel du Dentiste pour I’application des dents incorruptibles, suivi de la description de quelques instrumens perfectionnes. Paris, 1814. With plates. Fox, Jos., The Natural History and Diseases of the Human Teeth. Second Edit ; London, 1814. 4to. Kugelman, K. j., der Organismus der Zahne, deren Krankheiten und Ersetzungen.; ;i Niimberg, 1823. 8vo. Bell, Thomas, The Anatomy, Physiology, and Diseases of the Teeth. London, 1829. 8vo. V. Carabelli, Systematisches Haudbuch der Zahnheilkunde. Wien, 1831. 8vo.’ Linderer, Handbuch der Zahnheilkunde. Berlin, 1837. 8vo. With lithographed ' plates. Nasmyth, A., Researches on the development, structure and diseases of the Teeth. London, 1839. 8vo. 881. The teeth belong to the bony system, and therefore analogous dis- eased appearances are observed in them. Caries occurs in all the teeth, though more frequently in the molar than in the incisive teeth. Most commonly it begins in the crown, but not unfrequently also at the root of the tooth. 882. Caries is developed at the crown of the tooth, either from iciihout I inwards, or from within outwards. In the former, the enamel of the tooth is observed to lose its natural white colour and polish at one or more jiarts, either on the sides, or upon the top of the crown; clefts and hollows are seen which have a brown or blackish appearance, and gradually enlarge. The affected tooth gives out a nasty smell, and if the destruction penetrate to the inner substance so that the nerve be exposed to the contact of the