TREATMENT OF SCARS. 121 to position during tlie progress of the healing processand, indeed, his own subsequent observation is a complete and satisfactory refutation of this statement; for, he continues “ frequently, however, such contractions do not depend on any inattention on the part cn the surneon, but are the result of a natural process which follows cicatrization, and which has often baffled all the efforts of art to control. This process consists in an absorption of the granulations on which the new skin has been formed.” (p. 97.) Ihe surgeon, therefore, is not blameable for the results of this natural process, which not mere y fol- lows cicatrization, but actually proceeds with it pari passu, or even commences before the formation of new skin; for the granulations, as Hunter observes, “ being endowed with such properties, they soon begin to contract, which is a sign that cicatrization is to follow. The contraction takes place in every point, but principally from edge to edge, which brings the circumference of the sore towards the centre; so that the sore becomes smaller and smaller, although there is little or no new skin formed, (p. 483.) Besides the contractile power of these granulations,” he continues, “ there is also a similar power in the surrounding edge of the cicatrizing skin, which assists the contraction of the granu- lations, and is generally more considerable than that of the granulations themselves, draw- ing the mouth of the wound together like a purse. * * * This contractile power of the skin is confined, principally, to the very edge, where it is cicatrizing, and, I believe, is in those very granulations which have already cicatrized; for the natural, or original, skin surrounding this edge does not contract, or at least not nearly so much, as appears by its being thrown into folds and plaits, while the new skin is smooth and shining, (p. 484.) Whether this contraction of the granulations be owing to an approximation of all the parts by their muscular contraction, like that of a worm, while they lose in substance as they contract, or, if they lose without any muscular contraction, by the particles being ab- sorbed, so as to form interstices, (which I have called interstitial absorption,) and the sides afterwards fall together, is not exactly determined, and perhaps both take place. * a # After the whole is skinned, we find that the substance, which is the remains of the granulations on which the new skin is formed, still continues to contract, till hardly anything more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part, in comparison with the first formed granulations, and it in time loses most of its apparent vessels, becomes white and ligamentous.” (p. 485.) From this constant tendency of scars to contract, even from the very beginning of their production, they almost invariablj', when the wound extends over the bending surface of a joint, as, for instance, the front of the elbow, wrist, or ankle, produce gradual and per- manent flexion to a greater or less degree, and, by the unconscious efforts of the patient to overcome this restriction, and the unyieldingness of the scar itself, the scar is lifted up from the surface on which it was originally formed, the elasticity of the surrounding skin being (if the expression may be permitted) presumed upon, so that it yields to the forward movement of the scar till, becoming tense, it can yield no further, whilst the scar assumes a thick web-like character, doubling on itself as it rises, and stretching from the upper to the lower member of the limb, its edge being rounded and usually thicker than the rest of its extent, so that it has an appearance very similar to the skinny expansion between the upper and fore arm of birds upon which the covert feathers are arranged. If the burn or scald have been on the chest it is not uncommon to find the skin on the front of the arm-pits dragged inwards by the transverse contraction of the scar, and the arms pinned to the sides. The skin of the neck, also, is drawn do^vn, so as to cause more or less deformity, and instances are not wanting where, if the burn or scald have extended on the front of the neck, the skin of the face has been pulled down, the lower lip more or less completely everted, and the lower jaw constantly depressed, except when the head is bowed forwards, which it is even sometimes permanently. Indeed, I can fully admit the troth of H. Earle’s statement“ 1 have known this gradual contraction draw down the chin upon the sternum, and approximate the shoulders so much as to cause a partial ab- solution of the clavicles, and completely alter the dimensions of the thorax ” (p 98 'i 1 been stated it is clear that, after destruction ot the skin by severe burns and scalds, the contraction of the scar, as a natural consequence, may be expected, however ^rblameable*^^^”'^ ™ endeavour to prevent it, and therefore he IS But it becomes a question, whether any thing can be done to set free the limb re- having ho.avar, Iho .mall part »hiciriay SalTS limt” ZSZe'eSatZM taken place, the contraction again appeared. Hnnn, E^n, ;bereZ(« ZpMrf »