CAEBUNCLE. 135 Ritter has a one-sided notion of the origin of boils from retention of the animal refuse, and of their dispersion by the early application of cupping-glasses fa). [I do not agree -with Chelius that general treatment in boils is unnecessary; -when such is the case it is the exception, not the rule. Most commonly the general health is disturbed, and requires putting to rights by attention to the hepatic functions, and the proper employment of tonics.—J. F. S.] V.—OF CARBUNCLE. De Herrera, C. P., De Carbunculis Animadversiones. Pintice, 1604. 4to. Tossi, M. A., DeAnthrace seu Carbunculo Tractatus. Venet, 1618. 4to. Frank, G. Dissert, de Carbunculo. Heidelb., 1682. 4to. Bordenave, T., De Anthrace, Theses Anatomico-Chimrgicse; resp. J. J. Robin, Paris, 1765. 4to. Bromfield, W., Chirurgical Observations and Cases. London, 1773. 8vo. BnaaNO, H. W., Der gutartige Carbunkel und dessen medicinisch-chirurgische Heilung. Stendal, 1786. 8vo. Chatenet, H., Essai sur I’Anthrax. Paris, an ix. 8vo. Larrey, Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. i. p. 104. Cooper, Astmey, Lectures on Surgery, vol. i. p. 242. Depoytren, Le50ns Orales, vol. iv. p. 109. Copeland, James, on Furuncular Diseases; in his Dictionaiy. 118. Carbuncle {Carbunculus, Anthrax, Lat.; der Karbunkel, Germ.; Charbon^ Fr.) is an inflammation of the skin and underlying* cellular tissue, with considerable hard swelling", which runs into gangrene throufli- out its whole extent. It is distinguished from boil only by the severittTof the inflammation and by its great disposition to run into gangrene; and rorn malignant pustule {par. 34), with which it has great similarity, and has been by many confounded, in that the latter is always the consequence of an imparted peculiar poison. _ Under an attack of severe burning pain, a circumscribed hard swelling IS produced, on which numerous pustules arise; these bursting, many sieve- ?in, from which bloody ichor escapes^nd at tlie bottom of which mortified cellular tissue is seen ; the skin grows dark arr-i’l7- ^ “to gangrene. Sometimes the deep parts are all in a state of mortification before it appears externally. If the^skin ?he dSd^'SllularT"'"^ apertures, or by mortification, e dead cellular tissue appears as a whitish-gray lump, or, in large carbun f intermixed with grayish-white and bloSy shreds ith great surrounding inflammation, which runs into suppuration In which S/ T ^ ^ollular tissue aTar^e ^ ferent, often?, ,'„ge a, the hand, ota Silf and is sometimes only sHglf soretimef accompanies it from the first; arises the difference^bS^ Hence pathic, and benignant carbuncle. ^ pestilential, idio- naturefrom any^^fthe fomwsays J. Hunter, “of a different / place, and is pretty («)InJoun,alvoNG™u„dvoNW.™,vol.iii.p„t.i.p.81.