COMPOUND FRACTURES. 51Y )servation state, as my experiments were not continued sutRciently long; but what ore is needed can be easily supplied from what has been elsewhere observed about jcrosis. It would, however, happen, that after the dead part was separated and thrown F, tlie bone would be covered with granulations, which growing, would by degrees be inverted into cartilaginous and bony substance, producing what call the secondaky iLLL's, and at length be united with the parts in the immediate neighbourhood. “ Rut this very point, that the parts of the fragments bared of periosteum pass into crosis seems to be greatly impeached, because practical Surgery in suppurating actures should propound that the prognosis is bad from the first; for although I ould pass over that in such fractures the first callus proceeds much more slowly, and jnseiiuently that arising on both fragments does not so readily unite, the latter callus hich is the principal cause of the fragments uniting firmly together, is completely ibegun until necrosis has ceased. Rut this separation is often effected too late; the rmation of the soft parts of the intermediate substance, as it were proceeds more and ore, whilst the necrosis ceases to be separated, and between the extremities forms dense umbranous investments, pretty closely enveloping the broken ends, as seen in the fourth periraent. The exfoliation being completed the granulations at length spring up, and ortly coalesce with these investments: the inflammation, inasmuch as it has been kept I by the necrosis alone, soon ceases, and cicatrization takes place; therefore not only there a loss of the substance, but even that by which the lost substance of the bone repaired, is removed. Hence either the bony junction of the fragments is effected ^ the first callus alone, and therefore the union is little firm ; or the fragments are erely contained Jn fibro-cellulous investments, and a spurious joint, as it is called, is rraed. “ From the fewer experiments I have made, I certainly dare not conclude that the rts of fragments bared of periosteum, inasmuch as they are bathed in pus, always die, ,d that the doctrine advanced by Gendrin, that “ these parts are softened, changed to red tissue, and covered with granulations,” is entirely refuted; for what is alleged this writer from experiments, so far as may be judged from the manner of his narra- in, seems no less to be depended on, although he has not stated what the experiments ere. Besides, my experiments on full-grown rabbits were not sufiiciently numerous, at any thing could always be certainly collected from them. But they so agreed gether, as also entirely with those which I have elsewhere noticed of acute inflamma- )n of bone, that I cannot but at present rather doubt, that softening and swelling, hich almost every one agrees existing in inflamed bones, and hence I am disposed Teafter to follow this matter further. “ It is doubtless very remarkable that Gendrin, Breschet, Meding, and Kortdm, ake not the least mention of the necrosis which exists in suppurating fractures. Mar- ques (a j had distinctly stated that the first callus could not be produced in suppurating actures of bones, as the extremities of the fragments, if not entirely, at least the reatest part of them exfoliated. Most other writers speak only incidentally and without eamess on this point; thus for example Bell says large portions of bone separate, IYER that granulations spring from the ends of the fragments, sometimes whilst ex- 'liation proceeds, and sometimes when it does not. In observations relating to the re of compound fractures, in the Surgical Journals edited by Richter, Langenbech, rakfe and Walther, I have at present found few in which it is not stated, that single jlinters, and often indeed long after the occurrence of the fracture, are thrown off; in ost I have found distinct mention of separated necroses, nor did it seem doubtful but at the splinters also above mentioned should be referred to the necrosis. It folloivs at necrosis exists in suppurating fractures, if not always and necessarily, yet doubtless : the greater number. But indeed since necrosis itself is to be considered the main use why compound fractures are either but little firm, or entirely unconsolidated, and nwrosis arises not so much from the injury (mechanical) of the bone itself as from le disturbance of the first intention, is it not worth while to try whether, often by ■Siting the external wound, and converting the compound into simple fracture, which ontaneously happens in rabbits by the formation of -a scab, care might not be taken should not die? Whether by a proper treatment the prominent parts of e bone having been accurately adjusted, or as circumstances might require cut off tn a saw, the lips of the wound united, and more violent iiiflarnmation prevented, at may not be effected by art in man which in certain animals is done by nature ?”' . 223-25.)^ 590. Amputation maybe necessary in Fracture of Bones; 1, on ac- ta) Cited at tlie head of tlie Article,