I OF THE UPPER-AKM. 785 I 1036. Besides the modes of reducing dislocations of tlie upper-arm idready given, the following still require to be mentioned :— I 1. In recent dislocation the patient may be laid on his back upon a •able or sofa, in sucli way that the affected arm may be completely on the |•da■e ; a wetted roller is to be applied on the arm above tlie elbow, and |)ver this a handkerchief is to be fastened. The Surgeon, standing with fine foot on the ground, places the heel of the other in the patient’s arm- lit, so that lie finds himself in a half-sitting posture by the side of the •atient. By means of the handkerchief he extends tlie arm for three or our minutes, in which way, under ordinary circumstances, the head is asily reduced. If more power be required, a towel instead of a handker- ihief should be fastened around the arm, by which several persons may pull, I hilst the heel is still in the arm-pit. In order to relax the m. biceps the jre-arm must be bent. In this mode of reduction there is less extension ■f the limb than lateral separation of the head of the arm-bone from the .lade-bone. On this account probably has Bertrandi {a) proposed, that •le Surgeon should place himself between the legs of the patient as he ■es ill bed, and make use of his left foot if the dislocation be on the ight, and his right foot if it be on the left side. Sauter’s (b) treatment orresponds to this; the patient being placed on a seat, the dislocated arm to be drawn down perpendicularly on the body, fixed in this direction by lie one hand of the Surgeon at the elbow-joint, and drawn towards the round, whilst with the other hand the head of the bone is thrust upwards; b the same time an assistant may further the extension, by drawing down lie hand, but which is not always, nor ever with violence, to be done, a dislocation inwards the arm is to be inclined more forwards. 2. The patient, being seated on a low stool, the Surgeon separates the islocated arm so far from the body, that he can put his knee into the arm- 1, and whilst he places his foot by the side of the stool, he puts one ind upon the arm-bone, immediately above the condyles, and the other ijon the acromion, then presses the arm downwards over tlie knee, and in lis way reduces the dislocation (c). 1037. If in very powerful persons, or in old dislocations, these modes ‘ treatment be unsuccessful, and it be necessary to overcome the muscles I continued and gradually increased extension, the pulleys are to be nployed as most convenient. The patient is to be put on a stool, the tmlder fixed with a retractor, and this attached to a hook fixed in the 11 on the patient’s sound side ; the extension-bandage is to be put on 3ve the elbow, and, by other bandages connected with the pulley, tened to the other wall. The direction of the extension is to be similar that made by assistants; and it must be made gradually, if intended to kept up for some time. AVhen it has attained sufficient degree, the rgeon puts his knee in the arm-pit, places his foot on the stool, and sing the head of the bone, thrusts it gently into the socket, which, at i moment when the extension is left off, usually happens without any ap. i The various contrivances proposed for reducing dislocation of the upper-arm are part superfluous, in part unsuitable, because the mechanical violence acts too much on ■ li head of the bone itself; or the extension cannot be made after every one’s favourite •ection. To these contrivances belong the arabe of Hipfochates, the machines of Ml selgelenkcs ; in IIufeland's Journal, vol. xliii. 10} Leber die Einrichtung des verrenkten Ach- pt. i. July, 1816, p. 39. (c) Astley Cooeeb, p. 432. 3 E VOL. I.