252 HIP-DISEASE,—SECOND STAGE. may continue, better or worse, for months or years, under a lingeriii}; course of this disease. The gait is merely trailing, and the foot commonly ' somewhat turned outwards. [(1) Buodie says;—“ I believe in the greater number of those cases to which the name of Diseased Hip has been usually applied, the ulceration of the cartilages is the primary affection, and the other parts in and near the joint become affected only in a secondary manner.” (p. 137.) Key (a), however, holds a different opinion, and observes:—“ The Hip Disease, emphatically so called, is a chronic affection, uniformly attended with ulcera- tion of the cartilage; ” and, from the cases which he has examined, he is induced to believe “ that the ulceration is preceded by inflammation of the liyamentuvi teres.” (p. 230.) (2) It is somewhat remarkable that Chelius does not enumerate, among the symptoms of the first stage of hip-disease, the pain more particularly about the inside of the knee, which almost invariably exists, and being often the only pain noticed by the patient, has frequently led to mistake of the actual seat of the disease, and to the treatment of the knee as if that were the part affected. It indeed presents an example of John Hunter’s (6) “ remote sympathy,” in which “ there appears no visible connexion of parts that can account for such effects. In these cases there is commonly a sensation in the sympathizer which appears to be delusive, and produces a wrong reference of the mind to the seat of the disease.” (p. 7.) This sympathetic pain in the knee is by some j held to depend on irritation of the anterior crural plexus of nerves as it passes over the i hip-joint; but Sir Charles Bell thinks the obturator nerve is the communicant. “ The j obturator nerve,” he says (c), “ passes through the thyroid foramen, down to the hip- I joint, and, after supplying the muscles, is distributed upon the inner part of the knee. The nerve in its course is thus involved in the inflammation which affects the hip-joint, and the pain is referred to its extreme cutaneous branches, at a part distant from the seat of the disease.” (p. 77.) Coulson does not agree with this explanation, as “very commonly we find the pain extending along the middle, and even outer part of the thigh, whilst the obturator nerve is distributed to the muscles of the inner side of the limb.” He tlierefore suggests, that “ from the intimate connexion of the long head of the m. rectus femoris with the outer edge of the acetabulum and with the capsular ligaments, the fascia of this muscle may take on the inflammatory action, and the pain in this way be conveyed down the limb to the thigh.” (p. 3.) I prefer Bell’s explanation, however; as certainly in the majority of the cases of diseased hip which I have seen, the pain is usually on the inside of the knee.—J. F. S.] 230. The second stage is characterized by a lengthening of the diseased extremity; the buttock of the affected side is flatter, its fold becomes ’ deeper, the whole thigh is wasted and flabby, the great trochanter stands 1 more upwards and outwards ; every movement by which the surfaces of the 1 joint are brought into contact is in the highest degree painful; the gait of , the patient is very limping; the weight of the body rests entirely on the : outstretched sound leg; the lengthened limb is bent at the knee, approached to the sound one, and the foot most commonly much everted. A peculiar sharp pain now comes on in the knee, which, however, usually retains its natural condition, only now and then being changed in its form, according to the observations of Albers and Rost. Although the pain in the knt>e is nearly always more severe than that in the hip-joint, yet the latter only is increased by direct pressure. [Astley Cooper observes “ The motions of the joint are impeded; extension is per- formed with difficulty; the child’s knee is bent; and the heel, on the diseased side, scarcely touches tlie ground. Besides this incapacity for extension, great difficultjMS experienced in the flexion of the joint. Thus if you attempt to bend the knee towards the abdomen, the child shrinks from the touch and complains of pain. If you throw something on the floor, and desire the child to pick it up, you will observe, that, in at- tempting to get possession of it, it bends only tlie sound knee. If you say, ‘ Let me see you put your foot on the chair,’ the child does this readily enough with the sound leg, but is incapable of doing it with the other, in consequence of the confined state of tlie flexions of the joint. The rotation of the joint is also impeded, more especially tl'^ r^ tation inwards, which cannot be attempted without great pain and uneasiness. If the (rt) Med. Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii. ft) On the Blood, &c. (c) London Medical Oaicttc, vol. i.