675 MERCURIAL DISEASE. arty. It must not, however, be forgotten that Hontek, from experiment, asserted that le secretion of secondary sores is not infectious, and Ricobd says that own experi- lents on the same point have confirmed Honter s statement. The possibility of in- Mition from secondary syphilis would therefore seem more than doubtful; and I am ither disposed to believe, that in cases where it is said to take place, that the male patient urposely deceives his medical attendant with a false history of his ailment or of the orrectness of his moral conduct after marriage, than that two so_ able and attentive ob- ?rvers as John Hunter and Ricord should be in error. ^ Be this however as it may, le consequences to the female and her children are so distressing and so serious, that i ray opinion an infected person ought not to be allowed intercourse with his wife ; r should at least be warned of the results which, according to the opinions of some able id experienced Surgeons, might by possibility accrue from such intercourse.—J. F. S.] Hey, William, Facts illustrating the effects of the Venereal Disease on the Child in ‘.ero; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 541. Evanson, Richard, T., M.D. and Madnsell, Henry, M.D., A Practical Treatise ;i the Management and Diseases of Children. Dublin, 1838. Second Edit. 8vo. Lawrence, William, Lectures on Surgery; in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. i. ; Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis. CoLLES, A., M.D., On the Venereal Disease, London, 1837. 8vo. & Beatty, M.D., A Letter from, on a species of Premature Labour, &c.; in Trans- ;tions of the Dublin College of Physicians, vol. iv. p. 31. VIII.—OF THE MERCURIAL DISEASE. Alley, G., Essay on a peculiar Eruptive Disease arising from the exhibition of Lercury. Dublin, 1804. IMobiarty, Description of the Mercurial Lepra. Dublin, 1804. iSpENS and M'Mdllin; in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., No. I. and V. Pearson, John, On the Effects of various Articles of the Materia Medica in the Cure Lues Venerea. London, 1809. I Mathias, A., The Mercurial Disease. London, 1819. Carmichael, Richard, An Essay on Venereal Diseases. Dublin, 1825. 8vo. Second dition. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis. London, 1829. 8vo. Batesian, Thomas, M.D., A Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases. London, !13. 8vo. Second Edition. Lawrence, William, Lectures on Surgery in Lancet, 1829-30. vol. i. I Wendt, S. C. W., De abusa Hydrargyri. Hafhim, 1823. Heim, E. M. A., Inaug. Abhandl. fiber die Mercurial Krankheit. Erlangen, 1835. Dietrich, G. L., Die mercurial Krankheit in alien ihnen Formen, geschichtlich, thologisch, diagnostisch, und therapeutisch dargestellt. Leipzig, 1837. 859. The immoderate and too long continued use of mercury, especially ith improper dietetic treatment, and catching cold, produces a peculiar chexy, which has been first well described within the last thirty years, as e Morbus Mercurialis (1), Erethismus Mercurialis (2), Erythema, and 'xanthema Mercuriale, &c. This disease has various stages, and appears, 1. As an eruption which generally occurs on suddenly catching cold, firing the use of mercury ; it is preceded by a feeling of great debility, hpressive sensation at the pit of the stomach, and frequent horripilations, jllowed by increased heat, quick pulse, head-ache, nausea, and thirst; jen pale, or dusky-red vesicles, rarely a purple-red eruption without #«icles, or similar to nettle-rash, appear most commonly first on the I 2x2