BRUISES OF THE SKULL, 386 be so immediately the cause of death, and must have recourse to some more powerful one. All those wouuds are to be considered more or less dangerous in proportion to the degree of concussion the brain or its meninges are supposed to receive. The rfum mater ‘ being a strong ligamentous membrane, and firmly attached to the skull seems not to be so easily affected, being a fitter medium to transmit any shock it receives to the brain, than oppose it. The subsequent reasons will convince us, the pia mater and brain are the parts that most frequently suffer in those cases.” (p. 46-53, pass.) The following excellent observations of Dease, in reference to those cases in which ' “ the cranium was laid bare, contused, or its tablessimply divided,” will be fully assented to by such as have had many opportunities of witnessing these accidents. “If the instm. ment with which the blow was given was not heavy, nor the force very great, the • patient, after a few minutes, perceives no complaint more than ought to be expecteil i from a simple wound. If he be attended, it is seldom the surgeon will be able to detei^ - mine, the first days, whether any farther injury has taken place or not. The wound ; digests as kindly, and the patient performs all the functions necessary to health as well ’ as before he received it. Now in such as became afterwards affected, whether thw underwent profuse evacuations, or were entirely left to nature, it made so very litw difference, as to the time or manner, in which they were first invaded by the symptoon ^ that usually attend an inflamed or suppurated state of the parts underneath the cranium, , that I could never attribute the variation to the treatment. The first symptoms that ti generally alarmed those patients that came to the hospital, were slight shiverings, sj attended with an inclination to puke. In some this was preceded by a languor over i them, accompanied with more or less degree of fever, and often with a dull pain in the » head and melancholy look. The wound in some put on the appearanee Mr. Pott t describes; but this was by means constant, nor that infallible sign of the inflammation a and putrefaction of the dura mater that he makes it. Nor did this appearance often take i place until the fever and other symptoms were far advanced. In some those symptoms made a rapid progress, so as to carry off the patient in a few days. In others they seemed to advance more slowly, and were less severe, although not less fatal. I have seldom seen them appear earlier than the eighth day, or later than the sixteenth or seventeenth; between the eighth and the sixteenth being in general the period most to be dreaded. If the trepan was applied at any time after those symptoms took place, the appearance of the dura mater was invariably this: either it was detached and in a state of suppuration and sloughy, or sound in every respect. If the injury was confined to it, the operation, as far as I have seen, proved successful; and if the patient died, I have ever found the cause of his death in the suppuration of the pia mater or brain, but more r generally in both.” (p. 59-62.) Guthrie justly observes:—“When the periosteum covering the bone is bruise^ or < the bone is deprived of this membrane, it does not follow that the bone should die or > exfoliate. In many instances the wound will gradually elose up and heal, as if no such.’ accident had happened ; and in most cases this termination will only be delayed by tte! separation of a scale of bone from its outer surface. If the bone should be bruis^ in: addition, or slightly fractured, or depressed without a wound of the integumen^ andi the general treatment has not been strictly attended to, the case may terminate in one J of those secondary tumors of the scalp which Dease and Pott have so admitnbljr f described, and which may be considered as a complaint fraught with the utmost dang^ i (pp. 120, 21.) The expressions “ primary” and “ secondary tumours,” are GuTHBixt ■ own, the former applied to the bumps mentioned, {par. 384,) and the latter to the swell- ing espeeially treated of in the paragraph now considered. He also speaks of the dis- tinguishing characters of the two swellings, perhaps more positively than observahot will fully justify, but still they are worthy of observation;—“ The es^ntial differew between the primary and the secondary swelling is to be found in this circumstance, tht although the bone may be exposed, and even in some de^ee have changed its <»lon^ the primary swelling, when matter has formed, the febrile symptoms will subside af^ its evacuation, healthy granulations will spring up, and little or no exfoliation will taki place ; whilst in the secondary swelling none of these favourable symptoms or appetf ances will take place, for the bone is incapable of maintaining its life, it must separa or be removed in part, if the outer table only be diseased, and by the operations of *’***'^ but this must be done by the trephine, if there be reason to believe that matter collected beneath, which must, I am of opinion, certainly take place, unless there shou be a fissure or fracture through which it may escape.” (p. 122.)] 387. A strict antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeches, co| fomentations, and antiphlogistic purges, in most cases, prevent the et ||W«II|8 if n A i ■* a