737 URINARY FISTULA. dividinff the sphincter,” he elsewhere observes (a), “ is not very painful, except in those tcases where the disease is complicated with ulcer at the back of the reciwm; neither is there ever anj’’ hromorrhage of consequence, as the pressure of the nngei or a plug of lint will command it. The relief is immediate, and the very next tirne that the patient has an evacuation, there is an end of all the pain and difficulty which she suiierea before. It is better, however, that she should not have an evacuation immediately after the operation, and, therefore, I generally give her an active purgative on the preceding day, and some opium afterwards, to keep the bowels constipated. After two or three days, castor oil may be exhibited and the bowels opened. The wound requires very simple treatment; a little dressing of lint may be applied to it till it is cicatrized, and ncatrization is generally completed in about three weeks. No inconvenience whatever .‘ollows the division of the sphincter muscle, except it be made, as I have mentioned, in he female, in the direction forwards. The patient retains her fceces as well as ever, and ret the difficulty of voiding them is relieved.” (p. 27.)] E.—OF URINARY FISTULA. {Fistula Urinaria, Lat.; Urinjistel, Germ.; Fistule Urinaire, Fr.) I Desaui-t, Oeuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 287. I Howship, a Practical Treatise on the symptoms, causes, &c. of the most important Complaints that affect the secretion and excretion of the Urine. London, 1823. 8vo. . Chopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies Urinaires. Nouv. Edit, par Felix Pascal, I ’aris, 1824, vol. ii. p. 269. [! Bell, Charles, above cited. i Brodie, Sir Benjamin, Clinical Lecture on Perimeal Fistula; in Medical Gazette, I’ol. xvii. 1836. ; 943. Under the term Urinary Fistulas, strictly, are understood, long- «.nd narrow ulcers opening in any part of the urinary passages; fistulous ores, however, in their neighbourhood are included under the same head. iJrinary, like rectal, fistulas are therefore distinguished into complete and \ncomplete, according as they have an internal aperture communicating vith the urinary passage, and an external opening, or the latter only. The incomplete urinary fistulas are either incomplete internal, or incom- plete external. 944. The external opening of urinary fistula may be situated either in \\&perinceum, so'otum,penis, buttocks, thighs, loins, belly, in the vagina or 1 the rectum ; as the internal opening may be connected with the kidney, reter, bladder, or urethra. The direction of fistulous passage is mostly urved, several passages often run into one and the same opening; but irely do several external apertures lead to as many internal. Usually the 'alls of the fistulous passages are very hard and the callosities wide-spread. 945. The incomplete external ov false urinary fistula {Fistula ziri- aria incompleta externa, seu spuria) occurs mostly in the neighbourhood f the urethra, after abscess or ulcer, in which pus has collected and bur- owing in different directions, has destroyed the cellular tissue surround- ig the urethra or bladder, and produced a sinuous ulcer which resists le healing powers of nature. They may be connected with hardenino-, ith caries of the pelvic bones, and the like. Besides the precedino- ap- earances, they are characterized by no urine escaping from them nor aiiy us from the urethra, and by the probe used in examinino" them pene- •ating neither into the urethra nor bladder, nor touching a catheter intro- jced into the latter. 946. The incomplete internal urinary fistula {Fistula urinaria incom- (a) Med. Gazette, vol. xvi. 3 B VOL. 1.