146 EEMOVAL OP ENLARGED TONSILS; through the aperture with a double hook, is readily cut off. Each side of the throat re- quires its own instrument, on account of the obliquity of the knife-edge. In the United States some surgeons prefer scissors to the knife, and others the guil- lotine instrument of Physick, with or without modification. The best scissors are those of Dr. Smith of Baltimore, the blades of which are curved on the flat, and bent like a hawk-bill towards each other, so that the points cross when the instrument is shut. Two small steel points are, in addition, attached to the side of each blade, so as to catch the portion excised, and prevent its falling into the glottis (a). Gibson of Philadelphia (b), with the view of getting rid of the numerous instruments formerly used for the removal of enlarged tonsil, has invented an instrument which at once keeps down the tongue, holds the gland firmly, and separates it nearly at the same moment. “ It consists of a pair of forceps nine inches long, the eighth of an inch thick, half an inch broad when shut, with extremities an inch and a-half long, slightly serrated and somewhat curved, including, when closed, an oval space a quarter of an inch wide, and terminating, at the other extremity, in handles which stand off obliquely from the shafts of the instrument. A knife or blade, the length and breadth of the forceps, rounded on its cutting edge, and having a button placed perpendicularly to its axis on the oppo- site extremity, works backwards and forwards, by means of a groove, to the extent of an inch and upwards, between the blades of the forceps, to one of which it is secured by screws. A sheath upon each end of the forceps, to keep the knife from starting off the moment it touches the tumour, completes the instrument.” (p. 27.) “ It is to be passed into the mouth with the blades closed, and resting flat on the tongue, which it presses. The instrument is turned edgewise, still resting on the tongue, its blades expanded, placed fairly around and completely behind the tumour, which is then seized and firmly held, while the thumb, resting on the button-like extremity of the knife, pushes it for- wards, and instantly separates the enlarged tonsil, which is immediately brought away in the grasp of the forceps.” (p. 27.) The ordinary practice now is to remove the tonsil by cutting through with a knife, of which the blade is guarded to within an inch of its tip, the gland being drawn inwards towards the mesial line with a tenaculum or double hook. There is soreness for a few days, but granulations soon form, and the wounded part heals.—J. F. S.] 134. The bleeding after this operation is usually stopped by frequent gargling with cold water and vinegar; or charpie dipped in some astringent wash is applied with dressing-forceps to the bleeding part. In cases of necessity the red hot iron must be applied. During the inflammatory and suppurative periods, soothing and subsequently astrin- gent gargles, with borax and so on, should be applied to the cut surface. If the suppurating surface assumes a luxuriant appearance, stronger astringents, even lunar caustic and tlie hot iron, must be used. [Of wound of the carotid artery in removing the tonsil gland, I have not met with,. nor heard of, a single instance. Lawrence writes:—“ I have removed enlarged tonsils very frequently, the loss of: blood, in the majority of cases, not exceeding a tea-spoonful. It would, I believe, always • be so, if the parts are in a perfectly quiet state. I once performed the excision in a ; gentleman from the country, who was obliged to leave London immediately, where tliere was a state of active congestion in the fauces; the bleeding was considerable, but not; alarming.” But their removal is sometimes attended with very fearful hmmorrhage. ^ My friend Callaway informs me, that he has “ seen sometimes considerable, and, in one case. where he had removed the tonsil by the knife, alarming ha;morrhage in a boy of seven: years of age, which required stimuli, &c., to recover him from the fainting which; followed.” I have to thank my friend Shaw for the following Case—A man aged forty years was deaf in the left ear, and the tonsil on that side ■ being enlarged, it was excised with the guillotine on Saturday. No bleeding of conse-' quence followed, the gland being hard and light-coloured, as if of old stanmng. On Monday he complained of sore throat, and the incised surface appeared as if a sup^i ficial sfough were about to form. On the afternoon of Tuesday bleeding commenced in the lower part of the cut surface where ulceration had taken place adjoining the slough. An oozing of blood, varying in quantity, continued, in spite of repeated attempts to check it with styptics, till the afternoon of Thursday, when he was so much exhausted that the (a) See Panooast’s Treatise of Operative Surgery. (6) Institutes and I’ractico of Surgery, vol. ii.