158 (fl) MS. Lectures on Surgery. GONORRHOiA, SYMPTOMS OF. with the otlier, if my idea of that complaint he ■well founded. The spasmodic chordee comes and goes, but at no stated times; at one time there will be an erection entirely free from it, at another it will be severely felt; and this will often happen at short intervals.” (pp. 52, 3.) Abernetiiy (a) mentions “ another, and more permanent, kind of chordee, which arises from inflammation having been propagated to the corpus spongiosum; coagulable lymph is thrown out, which glues the cellular tissue together, prevents that part of the corpus spongiosum being injected with blood during the erection of the penis, and I occasions it to be crooked and bent towards the contracted side. This forms a true and permanent chordee.” Hunter also speaks of “ a soreness often felt by the patient all along the under side of the penis, owing to the inflamed state of the urethra. This soreness often extends as far as the anus, and gives great pain, principally in erection ; yet it is difi'erent from a chordee, the penis remaining straight. With most gonorrhmas there is a frequency in the erec- tions, arising from the irritation at the time, which often approach to a priapism, especi- ally when there is the above-mentioned soreness, or when there is a chordee.” (p. 48.) (9) Hunter says he has “seen cases where the irritation has extended so far as to affect with real pain the thighs, the buttocks, and the abdominal muscles; so that the patient has been obliged to lie quiet in a horizontal position; the pain has, at times, been so considerable as to make him cry out, and the parts have been very sore to the touch ; they have even swelled, but the swelling has not been of the inflammatory kind; for, though there was a visible fulness, yet the parts were rather soft.” (p. 54.) (10) These changes in colour. Hunter considers, “ depend on the increase or decrease of the inflammation, and not on the poisonous quality of the matter itself; for any irri- tation on these parts, equal to that produced in a gonorrhoea, will produce the same appearances. * * * It is very probable that there is a small extravasation of red blood in all cases where the matter deviates from the common colour, and to this the different tinges seem to be owing. * * * It has often a smell seemingly peculiar to itself.” (p. 56.) (11) I have seen retention'of urine from severe gonorrhoea, in which it was thought necessary to introduce a catheter; a practice, however, which I do not approve of, and I think might be evaded by warm baths, leeching, and purging.—J. F. S. Hunter, however, mentions the very contrary condition from the extension of the in- flammation. He says, “ When the bladder is affected it becomes more susceptible of every kind of irritation, so that very disagreeable symptoms are often produced; it will not allow of the usual distension, and therefore the patient cannot retain his water the ordi- nary time, and the moment the desire of making water takes place, he is obliged instantly to make it, with violent pain in the bladder, and still more in the glans penis, exactly similar to what happens in a fit of the stone. If the bladder be not allowed to discharge its contents immediately, the pain becomes almost intolerable; and even when the water is evacuated, there remains, for some time, a considerable pain both in the bladder and glans; because the very action of the muscular coat of the bladder becomes a cause of pain by its own contraction. The ureters, and even the kidneys, sometimes sympathize, when the bladder is either very much inflamed, or under a considerable degree of irri- tation ; however, this but rarely happens, and, if it should take place with any degree of violence, I should suppose that the stomach would also become affected, and of course the whole constitution. I have even reason to suspect that the irritation may be communi- cated to the peritonoBum by means of the vas deferens. * * * When the inflammation, or perhaps only the irritation, runs along, * * * the disease is generally very violent, and I suspect is something of the erysipelatous kind; at least it shows an irritable sym- pathizing habit.” (pp. 55, 6.) The constitution scarcely ever is primarily affected on the incursion of gonorrhcea; but Hunter mentions one very remarkable case of this kind, in which tlie patient, dur- ing six weeks between “ the time it was possible for him to have contracted the disease, and its appearance,” had, “ for a considerable part of that time, often been indisposed with slight rigors, attended with a little fever and restlessness, for which he could ^ign no cause; nor was he relieved by the usual remedies prescribed in such cases. A violent gonorrhoea came on, and these symptoms went off” In a second attack which the same person suffered, “ it was a month from the time of infection Iwfore the gonorrhma ap- peared, and for some weeks of that time he was subject to a similar indisposition, which went off, as before, when tlie running came ou. Here, it would appear, that we have something of a suppurative fever, which, perhaps, often happens in this disease ; but the inflammation being small, and the fever, therefore, inconsiderable, it is commonly but little noticed by tlie patient.” (p. 73.)