TREATMENT BY DIVISION OF SPHINCTER ANI. 761 ^ these accidental fistulas, does not actually prevent their healing, but t because the parts on which they are found are not favourably disposed to t stretch by their distension, or displacement, to the concentric closing of the I opening. Thus tlie use of sounds, pessaries, and obturators, produce no :• satisfactory results; but on the contraiy, by keeping the walls of the i fistulous organs asunder, they prevent the narrowing of the opening. |( (p. 331.) The passage of the stools over the fistula, is rather advantageous I than detrimental to the scai’ring'. In reality, their continual contact with I the edges of the opening, excites an inflammation which prevents their |F scarring simply of themselves ; it causes the development of cellular granu- lations necessary to fill up the space, and produce consecutive union. * * * I But I repeat, the principal and most important indication consists in putting I the perforated parts in a condition most suitable for the approximation of I the edges of the opening.” (p. 132-33.) Tlie principle here recommended was, however, carried out much more I correctly in an operation for recto-vaginal fistula, first proposed and per- il formed twenty-five years ago by Copeland, and it is much to be regretted p that he has not given to the public any account of it; for though he is |i well known as having been the original proposer, yet there have been only :a few scattered notices of this operation in the works of other writers (a). IHe has, however, kindly informed me, that his first operation was for a j recto-vaginal fistula consequent on delivery, and that it consisted in divi- »sion of the whole m. sphincter ani, on one side of the anus, so as to pro- 1 duce incontinence of the stools, and quite away from the fistulous opening. 'The result of this was, that the contraction of the sphincter being de- sstroyed, the parts surrounding the fistula were no longer acted upon by it, land the tendency of the fistulous opening to concentric contraction being mot opposed, it gradually drew together till it had completely closed, ’whilst the divided sphincter uniting more slowly, at last recovered the q power of retaining the motions, and thus a perfect cure was effected. He Ifurtlier informs me, that he has operated successfully five or six times, 1,1 cutting one or other side of the anus, as might be convenient, but never i dividing forwards towards the vagina, nor cutting through the fistula and ^perbuBum, as the result would inevitably be permanent incapability of 8 retaining the stools.—j. f. s.] Besides the writers already mentioned on Vesico-vaginal and Recto-vaginal Fistula, 4 there may be also compared j Dieffenbach ; in Med. Vereinszeitung fiir Preussen. 1836, June, j JoBERT; in Gazette Medicale. 1836, March. Kilian, Die rein chirurgischen Operationen des Geburtshelfers. Bonn, 183.5. ; Duparcque, Histoire Complilte des Ruptures et Dechirures de I’Uterus, du Vagine I et du Perinee. Paris, 1836. 8vo. Bendz, H. Ch., De Fistula Urethrae et Vesico-vaginali. Hafnia;, 1836; with two \ plates. Zeis, Handbuch der plastichen Chirurgie. Berlin, 1818. Jakger; in Handworterbuche der Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 125. Michon, L., Des Operations que ne'cessitent les Fistules vaginales. Paris, 1841. Le Roy d’Etiolles ; in Gazette des Hopitaux, 1842, September. («) Mayo IIebbebt, Observations on Injuries and Diseases of tlie Rectum. London, 1833. 8vo 1 p. 23.