661 WITH MERCURY. sublimate baths, various kinds of mercurial ointments, and drinks operating on tlie skin, are employed (2). If the granulations do not diminish under tlie ment, they must be washed with a strong soluti . , with savine powder touched witli caustics, especially ^vlth liq. hydr. nitr., or removed with the knife or scissors, and the places where they were, touchetl with caustic. Even when the general Lues has been long cured they are often extremely obstinate. _ Syphilitic diseases of the bones require a commensurate mercurial cure, according to some, especially Mcrcurius nitrosus and wood drinks. In nodes and gummatous swelling, hemlock poultices and rubbing in mercurial ointment Avith opium are used. In most cases, these swellings, which depend on exudation beneath the periosteum, become softer, less painful, and gradually diminish, and a slight depression and irre^larity remains in their place. In tophus, irritating remedies, as mercurial and hemlock plasters with ammoniacum or blisters are to be used ; and the same applies to exostosis. But if these swellings be accompanied with inflammation, leeches are to be applied and mercurial ointment rubbed in. In pains in the bones the combination of mercury with opium internally and exter- nally is fitting, and the use of wood drinks (3). [(1) Mercurial fumigation of the throat in syphilitic ulceration of the tonsils and pharynx is a very efficient mode of treatment, as the mercurial fumes get at all those parts of the sores which cannot be reached by pencilling. Nitric acid, or chloride of soda gargle, are also very useful applications. (2) When secondary syphilitic sores have formed, which, as Lawrence has ob- i served, are sometimes the result of pustules, and which pustules, it might have been • added, often commence in vesicles, the scabs generally assume a conical form, and . sometimes attain great height by circular rings being continually produced at their base, corresponding with the enlargement of the sores, resulting from the confined matter producing ulceration by its pressure; and, as at this part the scab is softest, it bulges around the sore, and thus ring below ring of scab, each of greater circumference than the other, is produced, and thus a graduated or step-like conical scab is formed . which has close resemblance to the scab of a rupial sore. If this scab be rubbed off : the edges of the wound are very painful and irritable, and soon set about forming another, but imperfect scab, which worries the patient exceedingly. So long as such . scabs reman on the sores, so long do they continue increasing and the sores spreading; and, as theiy are thick and hard, no application to them is of the least service. They should therefore always be removed by poulticing, after which, by the application of red precipitate ointment, together with constitutional treatment, they generally heal kindly. The same internal remedies for such eruption will not always be found suited to different cases. Sometimes the use of generous and strengthening diet, with porter or wine, is sufficient, as such patients are usually much out of health and worn down by the suppuration. It is, therefore, advisable always to commence with this mode of practice, with the risk of a reappearance of secondary'symptoms, which is not unfrequent. Rut sometimes this treatment is utterly useless, and it is requisite to use mercury to affect the constitution: this must, however, be done with the greatest caution, and with constant watching. If the sores improve and the patient’s appearance betters, and he begin to get flesh, it is a proof that this is the proper treatment; if, on the contrary, the sores become more irritable and spread, and there be increased general disturbance, the mercury must be left off, and the general irritation quieted if possible by merely sooth- ing treatment with sarsaparilla or gentle tonics and sedatives—either opium or hyos- cmmust. Ilut it may be still necessary to resume the mercury, and sometimes, though the constitution will not bear it at its first or second use, it will at last seem to yield to the necessity of its employment, Avill first bear with it without seeming benefit, then gradually become accustomed to it, and at last improve under it, and be freed from the disease. I have seen this result again and again, and I am convinced of the ocrasional absolute newssity for the employment of mercury in this form of syphi- htic eraption, although it may at first seem to be impossible to persist in its use. 1 he other forms of syphilitic eruption are more quickly and effectually cured by the general mercurial treat- on of sublimate, strewed