I OF THE LOWER JAW. 771 >iture outwards, and the horizontal surface of the temporal bone upwards. uMost commonly both condyles are dislocated together, but frequently only 0 3iie or other. At the moment when the dislocation occurs, the separation Ijf the two jaws is very great, but gradually it diminishes to an inch or an inch and a half; the incisive teeth of the lower jaw project more than chose of the upper, the lips cannot be closed, the spittle pours out in large ^quantity, the pronunciation of the tones, especially of the lip tones is pre- ^rented ; a depression is observed in front of the ear-passage ; on the inner oidde of the cheek a pi ojection caused by the coronoid process ; the natural uA^jrominence of the m. masseter is flattened. If the dislocation be only on i)ne side, the chin is drawn in the opposite direction ; on one side only, is :he depression before the ear-passage observed, and the lips may be more dosed ; the speech, however, is faltering. If the dislocation be not •educed, the jaws often remain fixed in the separation already mentioned, )ut the patient gradually acquires the capability of speaking more dis- inctly, and of retaining the spittle, and swallowing with less difficulty. Shewing remains impossible, and the patient must be fed with fluid bod; but in some cases the capability of chewing hard food has returned r<BoYER.) H) 1003. Dislocation of the jaw takes place in some persons very easily, a »ut never in children, on account of the peculiar form and direction of the jaws. Its cause is either external violence, which thrusts the chin down- sfrards and backwards, when, at the same moment the muscles raising he jaw, especially m. masseter and pterygoideus internus contract; or Violent straining in vomiting or yawning, by which the chin is violently rawn down, and by the simultaneous action of m. pterygoidei externi rojected forwards. 1004. Reduction when effected early is easy. The patient should be ted on a low seat and his head pressed by an assistant against his breast. Lhe two thumbs, wrapped in linen, are then to be carried as far back as ossible, between the hind teeth, and put upon their crowns, whilst the ngers placed beneath the chin bring it forwards and raise it at the same ime. If the dislocation be only on one side, the reduction is to be per- »rmed only with one hand, in the way described, but is more diflficult than 'hen both condyles are dislocated. For the purpose of acquiring great lower in this proceeding, the patient may be seated on the floor (Le Cat.) If the reduction cannot be thus effected, a piece of cork may be intro- liuced between the hinder teeth and the lower jaw pressed forward against ne upper. If the dislocation be only one-sided, the cork is to be applied [nly on that side. [The readiest mode of reducing a dislocated jaw is, to set the patient on the floor and IX the back of his head between your knees. Then the handles of a couple of forks, |r two round pieces of hard wood of similar size, are to be thrust in, one at each corner Vthe mouth, between the hind teeth, as far as they can be got. You then place both ^ands beneath the chin, and drawing it directly and steadily up, the sides of the jaw ^Hrming a pair of levers, the contraction of the temporal muscles, which fix the condyles I their unnatural place, is overcome, and the reduction is easily effected. A little knack [ requisite to raise the chin evenly, and keep the fork-handles well fixed, otherwise one ifjndyle only will slip in, and the attempt to reduce the other, will often displace that hrst returned. With inattention to this circumstance, this will occur again and again ■ the annoyance of both patient and Surgeon. If only one condyle be dislocated, it is still best to introduce the fork-handles on both t-des.—J. F. S.] ® 1005. After the reduction is effected, the lower jaw should be fixed by the 3 D 2