466 STITCHING OF _ Else, in treating of Gastroraphy(a), bv which he says, “ I mean sutures of the intes- tines,’ recommends bringing the edges of the wounded gut together with the uninter- rupted stitch; but it seems doubtful whether he had ever any opportunity of carryingout the practice he describes; for he says “ If we consider when these sutures are U> be applied, we should think there is seldom any opportunity to have them performed. In the first place it is never to be used unless the intestines protrude out of the wound of the abdomen. • » * If the intestine should protrude and it be wounded, what method are we to follow ? Some authors very strongly recommend the interrupted suture; others likewise recommend the uninterrupted suture, but performed in a different manner, as, for example, the Surgeon is to hold one end of the intestine and the assistant the other; the needle (being a straight one) is to be stuck through both lips of the wound, and you must leave some inches of thread, which is to be tied to a bolster that is to be left on the outside of the abdomen. The needle is then to be stuck through again, observing always to do it on the same side, and, when finished, to leave three or four inches of thread to hang out of the wound, as before, and so as to be fas- tened to a bolster, &c. This then is an uninterrupted suture, but different from what was used in sewing up dead bodies. The threads are to be fastened to bolsters, that they may be afterwards withdrawn. * * * Few of these cases do well, as the faices are generally discharged through the wound into the cavity of the abdomen. When the wound of the intestine is healed, you are to remove the suture; but how are we to know this? They say when the colicky pains have left the patient, and the faeces come the right way, you must first remove the suture of the abdomen, and then carefully draw the other away.” Else refers to Le Dran’s “ looped suture,” in which “ three common straight needles, with common sewing thread, are passed through both sides of the intestine at equal distances; at the same time the assistant holding both sides of the intestine, the threads on each side are twisted close to the intestine, afterwards all of them are placed together, and the whole twisted again together, so as to bring the lips of the wound in contact; the thread is then to be left out of the wound, and fastened to a bolster. When the parts are united the threads are to be untwisted and so removed. This is a very ingenious method, but doth not answer so well as the former.” I have mentioned this plan of Else’s to show, that although one part of the treat- ment, viz, that of sewing up the intestine completely, which we shall presently see is the proper practice, was effected, yet it was counteracted by bringing a mass of threads out of the wound, consequently keeping the cavity of the peritoneum, open, instead of endeavour- ing to close it, and thereby necessarily to increase the already too great disposition of that membrane to inflame, and thus throw further obstacle in the way of the cure. Benjamin Bell (6) objected to Le Dran’s method of stitching, “ that in some degree it must contract the diameter of the gut, by which dangerous obstructions might after- wards be produced. Instead of it the glover’s suture, as it is termed, is commonly practised; laying the lips of the wound exactly together, and perforating both at the same time, a second stitch is now made by earrjdng the needle to the same side at which it first entered, at a small distance, perhaps at the eighth part of an inch, from the first, and in the same manner must continue by a proper number of stitches to draw the whole extent of the wound together. This being done, a sufficient length of the thread is to be left out at the external wound, for the purpose of drawing it away when we suppose the wound in the gut may be united. Even this method of treatment, however, must evidently tend to lessen the diameter of the gut, and I think the operation may be per- formed with the same degree of security, and in a manner that will obviate this difficulty, by entering the needle always from the inside of the gut and pushing it outwards. The operation should commence near to one end of the wound ; the needle being pushed through one side of the gut, the ligature should be drawn forward and retained by a knot formed on the end remaining in the inside. The needle must now be carried straight across and entered in a similar manner, so as to pierce the opposite side of the wound also from within; but the following and every succeeding stitch will not be opposite to each other. • * * The end of the ligature may at last be secured and cut off close to the other extremity of the wound, if the gut is to be put freely back into the abdomen, or it may be left of a sufficient length to hang out at the wound. * • * This is indeed usually done, that we may have it in our power, as it is said, to draw away the ligature on the wound of the gut being cured. It is probable, however, whatever suture niav be employed, if more than one or two stitches have been passed, that it will be very diffi- cult and even uncertain, our getting the ligature away witliout hurting the intestine more than we ought to do. I would never advise, therefore, with any view of this kind, that the ligature should be left out at the wound; less danger will arise from cutting it («) MS. Lectures on Surgery. ("6) Sj'stem of Surgery. 3d Edit. IT87. vol. v.