WEAVING OF ARTERIES. 311 draw them out, and to isolate tliem from surrounding parts ; and that deep lying arteries, which can be taken liold of only witli great trouble, may, in general, be more easily secured by ligature than by torsion. 1 he pain is usually about the same in botli proceedings ; but in those cases where it is difficult to draw out and isolate the arteries, torsion must always be the more painful operation. Dupuytren (a) asserts that, according to the experience of distinguished practitioners, the consequences of torsion are inflammation and suppuration along the sheath of the vessels; that it is often insufficient; frequently, from many circumstances, impracticable; and that, after fruitless trials, the ligature must be made. Lokch (b) denies the bad results which torsion effected in various cases of Delpech’s, and does not believe that suppuration in the sheath of the artery ean be ascribed to it. Just so does Textor (c), but especially Fricke (d), who, by numerous experiments, sufficiently proved the im- portance of torsion, and has set aside many groundless objections to it. Compare also, Elster (e), Brajiberger (/). [I have never employed torsion, and, not being convinced of its having any preference over ligatures, do not think it probable I shall resort to it; but the objections made to it by Dieffenbach, Dupuytren, and Chelius, are not to me very satisfactory. The safety of torsion can scarcely be denied, even if reference only be made to Ferne’s remarkable case, in 1737, mentioned by Cheselden (g), in which “ the aiTQ of a miller, together with his scapula, was torn off from his body by a rope winding round it, the other end being fastened to the cogs of a. mill. The vessels, being thus stretched, bled very little; the arteries and nerves were drawn out of the arm ; and the surgeons first called placed them within the wound, and dressed it superficially. Next day he was taken to St. Thomas’s Hospital, but the dressings were not removed for some days. The patient had no severe symptoms, and the wound was cured by superficial dressings only, the natural skin being left almost sufficient to cover it.” (p. 321.) We have also in St. Thomas’s Museum an example of torsion of the femoral artery, accidentally effected by the coil of a cable, into which a sailor had stepped, being unwound by lowering the anchor, and tearing off the limb through the middle of the thigh; in this case, as pro- bably in Ferne’s, the cellular tissue is dragged beyond the torn end of the vessel for an inch at least, and twisted round, so that the vessel and tissue together resemble a long narrow cone. No haemorrhage followed, and the man was brought to Guy’s Hospital, where amputation above the injured part was performed by Astlet Cooper, who was accustomed to mention the case in his lectures.—J. F. S.] 298. After this review of the advantages and disadvantages of the tor- sion of arteries, an absolute preference can only be given to it in those cases in which it is very important that no foreign body should be left in the wound, as in injury to the epiploic, mesenteric arteries, and the like. In inflamed, bony, or otherwise degenerated arterial coats, torsion has a satisfactory result as rarely as ligature, although Kohler (A) asserts that even bony vessels may be twisted with good eftect, which Fricke (i) has confirmed by experiment. Of the various modes of applying torsion that proposed by Fricke is to be preferred. 299. As a means of stanching bleeding from wounded vessels, the inter- weaving of vessels, recently proposed by Stilling {K), is yet to be men- tioned, in which the divided end of an artery is passed through a cleft formed in its own walls, and is so closed that no blood can flow out. The vessel is to be somewhat drawn out with forceps, tlie surrounding cellular tissue divided or thrust back, and compressing forceps applied at a distance from tlie edge of the artery, which is more than twice the diameter of its (j) Legons Orales, vol. iii. p. 464. (o) Rust’s Magasin, vol. xxxvii. y) J’bobiep's Notizcn, No. 723, May 1831. (a) Annalen der Chirurg. Abtheilung des allg. in Hamburg, vol. ii. p. 150. / 1832. 1/j Torsion der Arterien ; in Horn’s Archiv., 1835, parti, and ii. J?) Anatomy of the Human Body, 11th Edit., 1778. (A) Heckeb’s Annalen, vol. xv. p. j, 0) Above q^uoted, p. 164. (It) Die Get as3 durch schlingung, eine neue Me- thode,Blutungenausgrosseren Getassen 7Aistillen. Marburg, 1834.