515 COMPOUND FRACTURES. last tlien be determined wlietlier adhesive plaster is to be continued or oultice applied, which latter is necessary if the wound look angry and lou"hy, and must be continued till it shall have become quiet and suppurate imlly, when it may be dressed either with plaster or ointment as may seem lost suitable. I liave, however, often known the wound unite at once, rithout a second dressing being needed. , I need scarcely observe, that the Surgeon, in the treatment of this injury, lould most carefully avoid meddling or prying into what is going on, nless the patient complain of uneasiness or pain. Pie should attentively atch from day to day, that the limb retain generally the position in which . was placed ; and if it have become materially displaced, it must be put ) rights with the greatest tenderness and care, and such additional pre- iutions taken as to prevent a recurrence. Especial inquiry should also e daily made as to the fitting of the apparatus, so as to guard against any iirging in of the edge or corner of a splint or any other part of the appa- itus; and if such have commenced, to relieve it, partially loosening the :raps so as to insinuate gently with a spatula or probe some lint, wadding, r soft linen. Inattention to this point is often followed by tiresome sores, jquiring sometimes the complete removal of the apparatus, which disturbs le progress of the cure, or even, as I have seen, causes the loss of the mb, and even of life. It must, however, always be remembered, that the great maxim in the ■eatment of compound fracture is, “ to leave well alone,” instead of ;tempting to do better.—J. f. s. “ The only peculiarity in compound fracture,” says John Hunter, “ by which it fiFers from other lacerated wounds, is the breach of continuity of the bone, which admits motion in the part where none was intended. This singularity it is which requires peculiarity in the treatment, as this motion and the operations of nature are in contra- ction to each other. A variety of inventions have been employed to prevent this otion; but the dressing of the wound every day counteracts the effect of every inven- 5n that has been thought of, and it is perhaps impossible to dress the sore without otion. [Since Hunter’s time, as has just been shown, many very efficient contrivances ive been hit upon, by which this inconvenience, or rather actual ill, is avoided.—j. f. s.] t first the part is generally put into a poultice ; but changing this must give consider- )le movement. Instead of a poultice, I would lay the leg or arm in cloths, doubled veral times, and wetted with goulard, and lap them over so as to come into contact, ijhese should be wetted occasionally, and continued until the inflammation is over and '.e suppuration takes place. * * * The time of union of a compound fracture is neces- rily much longer than that of a simple fracture, from the processes they have to go rough, and is very uncertain ; but the union of the bones is generally effected long |!fore the external wound is healed up, for whatever retards the cure of the bone retards iso the cure of the sore. When granulations have been formed, and bony union is late |i taking place, and the wound is healed up, or nearly so, it should be treated like a •mple fracture in the same circumstances, and gentle pressure is of use, as walking, tith a nmchine to take off the weight of the body; here necessity acts as a stimulus for ;)ny union to form. “ Compound fractures do not always take on the bony union; but there is never a .ant of soft union, as there is at times in simple fractures, and therefore new joints are !ver formed, as they are sometimes when simple fractures do not unite by the first or cond modes of union.” (p. 509.) With regard to the_ union of compound fractures, Astley Cooper observes:—“ The I ultimately the same, but in the one kind of injury ossific matter is » posited m cartilage, wRAout a suppurative process, and in the other with it. If you ' f ilowffig*'way'^ adhesion, it is brought about by granulation, and in the poured out, in consequence of the division of the vessels a undirwr membrane and the periosteum, instead of being confined in the sur- g structures, passes off by the external wound: yet it must be remembered that 2 L 2