I < VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 2nd, by cauterization i 3rd, by stitching; 4th, by the uniting apparatus- j and 5th, by transplantmg shin. \ ■ 972, For drawing off’tlie urine, a sufficiently large elastic catheter should according to Desault (a), be introduced into the bladder, fixed to an i apparatus resembling a truss by means of a movable silver plate, provided t with an aperture for the removal of the catheter; and to bring together ? i the edges of the fistula, a tent of linen, or a sort of glove-finger stuffed -i ' with lint and smeared over with resin or wax ; or a bottle of elastic - resin, on the front of whicli a thin piece of sponge is sown, dipped in oil and the sponge smeared with cerat. calam. (Baines) (Z») ; or a sponge* (Guthrie,) or an elastic oval pessary, (Rognetta,) or a hollow resinous » cylinder, (Coxe,) introduced into the vagina, which it fills up, but does t i not stretch. During this treatment the patient must avoid lying on »P her back ; and the cure is rarely effected before six or twelve months, v I Although by this method several successful results have been obtained (c), in most cases it does not succeed, especially if the fistula be old, callous,. i and round ; by the frequent removal of the plugs from the vagina the e i cure is always disturbed, and the length of time it requires, in many cases i cannot be borne. Jaeger doubts the cures of old fistulas by this treat- ■ i ment, as mentioned by Desault. 973, On the failure of this treatment, for the purpose of effecting the ; cure most effectually, and in the shortest time, the cauterization of the <e '■ edges of the fistula with caustic or Avith the actual cautery has been practised, in order by the inflammatory swelling, suppuration, and granulation, to wi* effect its diminution and gradual closing. Dupuytren (d) introduces his speculum, open above, into the vagina, with its aperture upwards, and then ; . with a hot iron, or with a piece of nitrate of silver or caustic attached i to a thin rod, touches the orifice of the fistula for a minute, after which : . lukewarm water is to be injected. Often a similar application is necessary ' i in from five to eight days. The position of the fistula may be illuminated - ' by a candle held before it (e). Lallemand (/) first takes an impression c yj of the fistula Avith modelling-Avax, for the purpose of fully understanding . " the extent of the opening, and its distance from the entrance of the vagina. AfterAvards he carefully touches the edges of the fistula Avith i nitrate of silver, by means of a caustic-bearer fixed on a ring, and thus - ' produces a sufficient degree of inflammation. When the slough is thrown off, and the edges of the fistula have become red, SAVollen, and suppurating, he introduces his connecting catheter, (sonde-airigne,') Avhich draAVS off’ the urine from the bladder, and at the same time holds hooks, Avhich are fixed in the hind edge of the fistula, whereby the two fistulous edges are i brought together and kept in contact. If one application of the instru- ment be not sufficient, it must be repeated. The changed condition of the fistulous opening, and its progressive scarring, is ascertained by the re- peated application of the modelling-Avax. Cauterization can specially have only a satisfactory result Avhen the fistula is small and surrounded (o) Above cited. (6) Case of the successful treatment of Incon* tinence of Urine, consequent to sloughing or ulce- ration of the bladder from injury during labour; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol.vi. p. 582. (c) Desault, Barnes, Youno, Guthrie, (Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1824, April,) Bretsculer and others. (d) Ammon, above cited, p. 114. (ff) Sabatier, Mcdecine Operatoire. Nout. Edit.jVol. i. p. 49. (/) Hi’ilexion sur le Traitement d« Vcsico vaginales, nouveaux moyens d’union plicablcs H celles dans lesquelles la stance est considerable; in Arclii\’cs gencrales Mcdecine, April, 1825, p. 481, *’”^*?** Notixen, No. 232, p. 18C>.—Chirurgische tafeln, pi. civ.