733 TREATMENT BY LIGATURE. nto its eye. In the same way, in complete fistula, silkworm gut may be ntrodnced into the rectum, and by it the thread carried in. 937. For tying complete or inwardly blind fistulas which extend very lio-h up, Desault, Reisingeb, as well as Weidmann, Schbeger, and dLmme have proposed particular apparatus, of which that of Reisingeb is preferable. It consists of a blunt silver tube and a probe providedwith a .:rocar point, whicli fits the tube, of a watch-spring, which in front has a putton and behind an eve, and of a pair of forceps with a movable gorget. 938. In a complete rectal fistula, Reisinger’s apparatus is to be used in lie following manner The patient being put in the same position as for nittino', the silver tube with its ensheathed probe is to be passed through he fistula into the rectum for about three lines’ length, which is ascer- i.ained by the finger already there. The forceps having been oiled are ;hen introduced into the rectum without the gorget, opened, and passed somewhat deeper in, that the tube may project between the arms of the :brceps and be held fast by them. An assistant then removes the probe from he tube and passes in the watch-spring, which is provided with the liga- ure, through the tube into the rectum. As the watch-spring projects :roni the tube, it must be seized with the forceps, which, being closed, are Irawn back, so that the watch-spring is drawn out of the anus, after it the igature, and then the tube is to be removed. In a fistula of the rectal sheath the tube must he brought through the sheath and the fistulous opening into the rectum, and then treated in exactly the same way. Accord- r.ng to Mott (a) a seton should be first introduced into this kind of fistula, and left here for some days; a thread is then to be drawn through the fistulous opening, and oy means of an eyed needle the ends found in the sheath are to be drawn through the oeiinaeum and the two ends tied together, as in rectal fistula. 939. In an inwardly blind fistula, the tube with its probe is to be carried by the fistulous canal to its very bottom, the blunt probe re- moved, and the trocar-pointed one introduced, without projecting it from :he tube. The forceps, opened, are then passed with the gorget into the •rectum about an inch above the tube, and both instruments inclined towards jach other so that the tube becomes situated between the arms of the forceps. The assistant now thrusts the trocar-point out of the tube, by which the rectum is perforated and the trocar-point between the forceps’ irms pressed against the gorget, so that the latter may recede from the forceps. The tube being then kept pressed against the gorget, an assistant Iraws out the trocar, and by means of the forefinger of the hand holding ;he forceps, the gorget is withdrawn, and removed from the forceps, which ire then closed and the tube held by them. The watch-spring is then ntroduced through the tube, and proceeded with as already described. 940. The two ends of the thread introduced, are passed into the two ipenings of a small silver tube, and tied with a simple knot and loop, so :ight that the patient may feel a degree of pressure but no pain. For the irst day he must keep quiet, but afterwards may go about his usual ousiness. Every three or four days the knot should be tightened as already lirected; and care must be taken for the daily passage of soft motions. If much pain arise, the ligature must be tied more loosely, but in other '•espects the treatment is to be, as after the operation of cutting. The ?ame mode of treatment is to be continued till the partition of the fistula s divided. In order to prevent the destruction of the ligature, at the (a) Gazette Mcdicale de Paris, 1841. No. 18.