STITCHING OR SUTURE. 325 sortes, and I wyll set oute those whiche are moste in use. But or you goe aboute the stitching of the wounde, geue diligent heede that it be niundified and made cleane, that there remayne not in it eyther any uncleannesse, as heare, duste, oyle, or such lyke: ■whiche may hynder the adglutination of the wounde.” (p. 2.) n j j “A piece of sticking plaster,” says John Hunter, “which has been called the dry suture, is more general in its application than the uniting bandage, and is^ therefore P*"®* ferable to it on many occasions. I can hardly suppose a wound, in any sit^tion, where it may not be applied, excepting penetrating wounds, where we wish the inner portion of the wound to be closed equally with the outer, as in the case of hare-lip. _ But even in such wounds, if the parts are thick and the wound not large, the sides will seldom recede so far as to make any other means necessary. The dry suture has an advantage over stitches, by bringing a larger surface of the wound together, by not inflaming the parts to which it is applied, and by neither producing in them suppuration or ulceration, which stitches always do. When parts, therefore, can be brought together, and espe- cially where some force is required for that purpose, from the skin not being in large quantity, the sticking plaster is certainly the best application # * * The sticking plasters should be laid on in strips, and these should be at small distances from each other, viz., about a quarter of an inch at most, if the part requires close confinement; but when it does not, they may be at great distances. This precaution becomes more necessary if the bleeding is not quite stopped; there should be passages left for the exit of blood, as its accumulation might prevent the union, although this does not always happen. If any extraneous body, such as a ligature, should have been left in the wound, suppuration will take place, and the matter should be allowed to vent at some of those openings or spaces between the slips of plaster. I have known a very considerable abscess formed in consequence of this precaution being neglected, by which the whole of the recently united parts has been separated.” (pp. 209, 10.) Our common hospital sticking plaster is the soap plaster of the London Pharma- copoeia, with a little resin to render it more adherent, spread on stout calico. I prefer it, however, without the resin, as less likely to cause irritation, and the plaster is quite sticky enough if fresh spread. Ttrkell was accustomed to use equal parts of soap plaster and compound frankincense plaster, but I do not know that it possesses any supe- riority over the soap plaster, except in having a more agreeable smell. Liston (a) prefers a transparent plaster, consisting of a solution of isinglass, spread on the unglazed side of silk, which, when used, requires a hot moist sponge to be run quickly over it, so as to melt the isinglass and render it sticky. “ This composition,” he says “ becomes suffi- ciently adherent; it keeps its hold often to the end of the cure ; and it is quite unirri- tating. Being transparent, the plaster does not prevent any untoward process that may be going on underneath from being observed, and, if any fiuid collects, an opening can be snipped for its escape.” (p. 33.) I have used this isinglass plaster several times, but do not find it has any material preference over the common adhesive. It is not a new invention, but has been long since used in Germany, where it is called English plaster, and is really no other than our common court-plaster spread on white silk.—J. F. S.] 313. Stitching, or Suture, Lat.; Naht,Qerva.-, Suture,'Fr.,') which was anciently so much in use, and at a later period has been entirely discarded by many Surgeons, is always accompanied with a considerable ir- ritation of the wound. Inflammation, and retraction are often excited to such degree by the presence of the threads, that the adhesive process cannot be perfected, and suppuration takes place. However much these reasons ay limit the use of the suture, yet in the following instances it is neces- ry1. In widely-gaping wounds of the face, in which it is desirable to reduce very close union, especially if the salivary duct be injured, or the lips perfectly divided. 2. In transverse cuts in such parts as have great disposition to retract. 3. In deep transverse wounds of the tongue. 4. In wounds with large flaps. 5. In large penetrating wounds of the belly. 3. In wounds of parts whose peculiar structure admits no other union, as lefts of the ears and eye-lids. 7. In complete tearing through of the lennseum during difficult labour. ‘ H'^nter was certainly no advocate for the use of sutures, for he observes me interrupted suture, which has generally been recommended in large wounds, is (fi) Practical Surgery.