260 DISEASES DISTINGUISHABLE FROM IIIP-DISEASE. towards evcnin<r becomes worse, wliich is also invarial)ly noticed in colii moist weatlier, and in oppressive lieat. Tlie extremity gradually l)egins ‘ to shorten ; the patient begins to limp, hut can set the sole of the foot fiat upon the ground ; the toes are turned outwards; the lumbar vertebrai acquire a great degree of mobility ; the buttock on the affected side is less prominent; a careful measuring of the limb in the mode directed shows actual shortening, 'fhe j)atient frequently complains of pain in the region of the knee, which has its .seat, however, rather in the knee-cap, and which he describes as if it were dependent on the contraction of the flexing muscles. I have never observed increase of pain in pressing on the hip-joint (2). Coxalgy cannot be well confounded with white leg, (phlegmasia alha flolens,) with psoas abscess (3), nor with primitive dislocation of the thigh ; but it may be confounded with fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, if the shortening be slight, the patient still walking, the upper fractured por- tion thrust info the shaft of the lower, and if inflammatory symptoms have taken place (JjEger). [(1) In regard to the pain in hip disease, Sir Charles Bell (a) observes, “ that pain arising from disease of the great sciatic nerve, as it passes near the hip-joint, may t)e mistaken for inflammation of the hip involving the same nerve; so that when you find a patient with pain in the hip, the very first thing you have to inquire is, whether this he not symptomatic of internal disease ? and I would remind you that it is not the more formidable disease of the viscera which produces this affection of the nerve, hut rather disordered function. The next thing you have to consider is the lesser degree of pain in the hip, which still proceeds from disorder in the lower part of the canal; for exam- ple, accumulation in the colon will produce paiu in the hip, which may he mistaken for disease in the hip-joint.” (p. 297.) I remember a very good example of the pain produced as just mentioned by Bell, though the accumulation was very slight, but . recurred continually a few hours after eating even a small quantity of hard biseuili . which, as soon as it reached the synovial flexure of the colon, produced a dull hea%y ■ pain in the iliac pit, and thence extending down the inner and fore part of the thigh to • the knee increased on walking. This would continue, although the bowels acted 1 freely and as usual, for two, three, or four days, till either castor oil were taken, or ■ an injection thrown up for its special relief; soon after which all the pain ceased.—j.f.s.] ( (2) This disease, my own personal observations of which entirely agree witli those of f Smith (i) and of Wernherr(c) cannot, if attention is paid to the symptoms above men- - tioned, be readily mistaken for coxalgy. I have, however, seen such mistake twice. . The disease occurs generally in elderly persons, rarely before fifty years of age. I have t most frequently seen it after concussion and contusion of the hip-joint, specially in women, i but occurring, also, without any previous cause. In some cases the gout seemed to me f connected with it. This disease never runs into suppuration, and, above all, excites no » symptoms dangerous to life. On examination of such a joint, the capsular ligament is s found thickened, the cotyloid ligament bony or absorbed, the round ligament destroyed, L the mass of fat in the hip-socket wasted, the cartilage of the socket abkirbed, and in its i stead a hard enamel, and tlie hip-socket materially changed in form and extent. The t cartilage on the head of the bone is absorbed, and the surface of the head is porous. I ? have, however, found, in advanced disease, the cartilage on the head of the hone un- r changed. In cases of long continuance, a hard glossy enamel is generally depiosited on i the surface of the bone; the round shape of the head is changed, at first it is flattened from ^ above downwards, but, subsequently, it assumes the shape of the socket. The neck of the thigh-bone is subject to a partial or complete absorption, and the head d sinks together with the shaft at a right angle, and appears to stand out directly from it If* the head and neck of the bone be sawn vertically, it has completely the appearance of a i fracture of the neck of the thigh-hone, externally to the capsule, which has united; the« bony mass is remarkably light, and the shaft of the thigh-bone consists merely of a thin : bony shell, and the medullary canal is much widened. Astley Cooi’er and Chablis; Bell have made remarks on these changes of the head and neck of the thigh-lxme; and - Smith has also observed them in die shoulder-joint. (ff) Medical Gazette, 18.98-39. (6) Dublin .loiirnal of Medical Science, vol. vi. Sept. 1834. (f) Schmidt's Jaiirbuclier.