83 LOCAL TKEATMENT. known, bleeding with freedom is certainly necessary. ****** Every part of the body under inflammation will not bear bleeding alike. I believe that the consti- tution bears bleeding best when the inflammation is in parts not vital, and those near the source of the circulation: whatever disturbs some of the vital parts, depresses, but not equally in all; and in tliem it becomes more necessary to be particular, for, in acci- dents of the brain, bleeding freely, even so as to produce sickness and fainting, is neces- sary. It is probable that the sickness attending such accidents, is designed to lessen the influx to the head, and occasion the vessels of the brain to contract.” (pp. 335, 7.) “ With regard to this evacuation,” (blood-letting,) he observes further, “ it is worthy of particular consideration, whether or not in all cases, where it can be put in practice, bleeding in or near the pait will answer better than taking the blood from the general habit; for certainly less may be removed in this way, so as to have equal effect upon the part inflamed, (and probably upon every disease that is relieved by bleeding,) and yet affect the constitution less; for, although, in many cases, the general habit may be relieved by bleeding, yet the part afiected, Avhere it can act, will in all cases require this evacuation most, and local bleeding will keep nearer these proportions, whereas taking blood from the general system is just the reverse. # * * j have observed that there is something similar to sympathetic affection in bleeding. I conceive that all the sympathetic powers, the universal, continued and contiguous, may be brought into action from the local influence of bleeding. Thus, bleeding in the part inflamed, I can con- ceive, does more than simply emptying the vessels mechanically, for that would soon be restored from the general circulation; but it acts by continued sympathy, viz., the vessels of the part being opened, they contract for their own defence, and this is carried further among the vessels of the part; so that bleeding from the part acts in two ways, viz., mechanically by relieving the vessels of some blood, so as to allow them to con- tract in proportion as the load is taken off, and also to excite them to contraction in order to prevent the effusion of blood. I suppose, likewise, that contiguous sympathy comes into action; for this would appear from practice and observation to be a principle in bleeding: therefore, in inflammation of contiguous parts it is proper to bleed from the skin opposite to them.” (pp. 338, 9.) “ Where the first indication for bleeding takes place, viz., where there is violent inflammation, with strength of constitution, bleeding freely will be of singular ser- vice. * * As it seldom happens that bleeding once will be suflicient in a considerable mflammation, the first or preceding blood taken becomes a symptom of the disease. • * * On the other hand, there may be indications for bleeding sparingly; first, when there is too much action with weakened powers; secondly, when there is a disposition to foim but little blood; thirdly, when the part affected is far from the source of the circulaUon. From the above three dispositions that require bleeding sparingly or with caution, I may observe, that it will most probably be proper in all such cases to bleed from part affected as possible, in order to have the greatest effect with the loss ot tne le^t quantity of blood, more so than when the constitution is strong, because the constitution in such cases should feel the loss of blood as little as possible. * * * But in many cpes the blood cannot be taken away from the part itself, but only from some neighteuring part, so as to affect the part inflamed.” (pp. 339, 4o.) firit 8 ® f all cases be performed with great caution,’ more particularly at first, and no more taken than appears to be really necessary; it should^ only be done £a?k part, and rather lower it where the constitiltion can bear it, but, if the constitution is already below or brought below a certain noint or disease, then an irritable habit takL place ^ich IS an incre^ed disposition to act without the power to act with This of ^itself ^omes a cause of the continuance of the original ^s^sition, and therWore adrn f neither of resolution nor suppuration, but continue in a statp nf iTvflnmrttn+* i,* t_ • a much worse disease than the former.” (p! 34T) mflammation, which is tho ^ General treatment of Inflammation, no less so is the Local. The local means are, abstraction of blood cold mniof // warmth, salves plasters, astringent, anodyne derivative means'^''^ villent action is gorng’^on^^herri^T’OT^^^ violence committed, or some therefore that influx becomes one mod?^ofrpHpf. fp blood to that part. Lessening not be encouraged in that action Althouirh tbi yessels dilate, they should chiefly as an effect, yet it is to be’cons deref af. considered raoce „f .he immediah. cause, i. i, probabi, o.ly thr^f SleSolIjrcareiC G 2