750 llECTO-VESICAL AND sponge might liaye prevented the escape of the air as well also of the blood, and miel perhaps be exciting the disposition to bleed, I removed it, and directed that the plu' ' should be removed from the catheter hourly and the water drawn off. lie went on tolerably well except being teased with flatulence and a tiresome coucl On the Lhird day the wound began to discharge; he has been passing plenty of clca urine by the catheter, often accompanied with air; but on the day following some y noticed to pass by its side, especially whenever he coughed. On the Jifth day a sma) ■ portion of hard stool was passed, whilst he was emptying his bladder, and a considerabl quantity of fluid motion was on the sheet. This was tlie first relief after the operatiot for although he had taken a little confection of senna with the view of expelling th i wind, it was thought advisable to keep the bowels as quiet as possible. On the netxnl day he was going on well, still passed air with his urine, but in less quantity. An in jection was given this evening to clear the lower bowel, but it had not any result. On' ligature came away. On the following evening he had a plentiful solid motion wbicl gave him much pain; his cough having become very troublesome, syrup of i>oppje and mucilage were ordered. On the ninth day the catheter was removed, and havinj been replaced with a shorter one, four ounces of urine were evacuated without any ait but afterwards both were again passed as usual. On the twelfth day he felt muci forcing pain as if the bowels were loaded, though he had a good motion last night, aa. ; : he has twice this morning passed some stool as well as air by the catheter. In the 1 afternoon the bowels were freely moved, after which no more motion passed by the in . ■ strument. On the seventeenth day a fresh catheter was introduced; and on the twentitU - 4 he complained of much irritation in the perinaum, which when examined appeared ti 4 depend on the shoulder of the catheter having caused a little ulceration in the cleft o 3 the buttocks. As regards the parts operated on, the external wound is healing fast, bn- 4 the fistulous opening does not seem much altered. The catheter was removed, and ai ll elastic male catheter passed by the penis to encourage the healing of the perina» i wound. This did not answer the purpose so far as the relief of the bladder - concerned; for the urine did not pass through it, but some by its side, through the i urethra, the greater quantity however escaped by the rectum. On the evening o. r the twenty-second day, not a drop of urine having passed through the catheter, thf , dresser thinking it might be stopped up, and that there might be retention, withdrew h t and introduced a silver catheter; but very little water having been obtained, he replacet li the elastic catheter, through which, since the urine flowed freely, and on the twerdf- K fourth only passed into the rectum whilst he evacuated his bowels. On the twentf * ninth day his bowels having become loose, the catheter began to slip into the reclum,».m ,4 have stool pass by it. This continuing for several days, the catheter was entirely re-- >1 moved, after which he began to pass about a table-spoonful of urine, at each watering, bj i the penis, but the greater part escaped by the rectum. For the first two hours after i taking drink, he was making water every two hours, but after that time much 1^ ' frequently. After two months he began to get up; he now retains his water for an hoot and a half or two hours, but voids it both ways. Four days after the water was held for a longer time, did not pass off as he w-alked about, but after sitting it oozed from i the anus when he got up. He still continued slowly and steadily mending, the quantity Ji passed by the urethra being equal to that from the rectum. In tlie thirteenth week I * examined the parts with a speculum; the fistulous opening is about three-eighths of an j inch in extent, its edges perfectly scarred and puckered. For the purpose of inducing a contraction, Umar caustic was freely applied. During the following week more urine a passed by the urethra, and the edges of the wound were again touched with the rustic, a Subsequently, at inteiwals of about a week, the edge of the aperture was continnalff t touched with the nitrate of silver, and at the end of six months, when I again examined < the rectum, the fistulous orifice had diminished to the size of a large goose-quill, but he ‘ still passed water by it, though varying in quantity. Soon after he left the house mu» : relieved, but not cured by the operation, and I have since lost sight of him.—J. F. S.J 968. Vesico-vaginal Fistula (Fistula vesico-vaginalis) is almost always tlie consequence of inflammation and sloughing of tlie vagina in difficult labour witli the head long wedged, or of instrumental delivery, in which the fistula may be produced in from twelve hours to fourteen days after the separation of the slougli; more rarely it occurs from injury of the front wall of the vagina and of the bladder, by instruments or sliarp bon^ in opening the head ; from operations, as lithotomy and puncture of the