662 SALIVATION. use of mercury, but they may also be cured by iodide of potash, -which is a nio«t valuable remedy for persons, who, as occasionally happens, cannot l:>ear the use of cury; which, however, I believe'much less frequent than supposed, and that rather the failure is in want of proper attention on the part of the medical attendant in the use of the medicine, than in the action of the medicine itself. In the employment of iodide of potash in these eruptions it must not be expected that the disease is at once cured- for such is not the case. The eruption not unfrequently recurs two or three times, as if a contest were going on between it and the medicine, but it is at Ia.st worn out and appears no more. I must confess, however, that if the patient’s constitutional appeaii ance do not oppose it, I prefer treating these eruptions with mercury, as the cure is more speedy and most certain. (3) The best and most certain treatment for nodes is that by mercury which must be continued for six or seven weeks ; and under its use these swellings, whether from fluid or from the actual diseased growth of the bones, slowly but steadily subsides so soon as the constitution becomes affected. The same effect takes place even mom rapidly by the use of iodide of potash, which may be taken internally in doses of from three to five grains, -with a dram of syrup of poppies, and in either decoction of sarsa- parilla, or compound infusion of gentian with some warm tincture. The quick absorp- tion under this treatment is often very surprising, but the cure is not permanent, and t£e nodes reappearing again and again, call for the repetition of the medicine till the di*. position to their production is overcome, just as in the eruptions already mentioned. It is rarely necessary in these cases to cut down through the skin and periosteum, as was formerly almost always practised when there was much fluctuation ; and its ab^rption may be hastened by blistering, and either dressing the sore with simple ointment or with iodide of potash ointment. But when fluctuation is accompanied with much pain and tenderness, and with redness of the skin, and the swelling increases instead of di- minishing, then it may be expected that suppuration has taken place, and it is best to make a free incision for the escape of the matter. If this be not done, the pus gradually separates the periosteum more extensively from the bone, and there is great danger of it being destroyed. This death of bone from syphilitic suppuration beneath the peri- osteum, is more common on the skull, than elsewhere and more serious, as not unfre- quently both tables of the bone are destroyed. It rarely however happens except in persons of irritable habit and broken up constitution. Such fluctuating nodes should therefore be emptied by incision, if they do not early yield to the local and constitutional treatment.—J. F. S.] 839. I have endeavoured to point out the various preparations of mer- cury according to their special and ascertained operation on the several conditions of the disease ; it must, however, be premised on this point, tliat there are indefinable peculiarities in certain constitutions. There must therefore be a variation of these preparations, when one preparation has at first produced improvement, but on long continuance and more powerful application no further benefit results ; or if from one preparation even in an increased dose scarce any advantage is gained, in sucli cases the prepa- ration selected is not suited to the constitution. In syphilitic ulcers with severe inflammatory symptoms, every employment of mercury is at the onset improper ; baths, softening and purgative remedies are alone to be employed, and in strong persons blood-lettings. Besides the mercurial preparations already mentioned, there have been of late brought into use Hydrarg. phosphor, to grain doses, (Starke,) the iodide and bromide of mercury Jth of a grain three times a day, (von Gbaefe,) and the Hydr. cyanic, to jrd and j^th « a grain dose (Mendaga, Parent.) 840. The Flow of Spittle (Salivation) is not necessary for the cure of the venereal disease, and is ratlier to be avoided, as thereby the further use of the mercury is interfered with, and often no trifling destruction of the mouth and teeth produced. When, therefore, the precursors of sah- vation, as swelling of the gums, metallic taste, and offensive breath have set in, the dose of mercury must be diminished, the preparation changed, or it must be entirely given up. The patient must be kept warm, and