OF THE UPPER-ARM. 783 a occurrence of dislocation downwards, the contraction of the m. pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi and teres major especially participate. It, how- 5j ever, particularly depends on the m. deltoides, as shown by examples Ivvhen this dislocation has happened in raising a heavy load. S The destruction of the soft parts in dislocation of the upper-arm, is for I :he most part restricted to the tearing of the capsular ligament to a tole- J rable extent and the bruising of the neighbouring parts. In dislocation tf nwards, however, a tearing of the m. subscapularis has been observed ; also oftentimes palsy of the arm, oedematous swelling of it; or a palsy iof the deltoid muscle is connected with, or subsequently ensues on disloca- 4" lion. Fracture of the neck of the upper-arm-bone has also been noticed w (imultaneously with this dislocation. II 1032. The inflammatory symptoms which occur in dislocation of the ipper-arm, are usually of little consequence, if reduction be soon eflfected ; :out if the dislocation be left alone, considerable interference with the movements of the arm occurs; the dislocated head is kept fixed in its j^osition, the motions of the arm depend only upon the mobility of the .6 )lade-bone, and often after from four to eight weeks, reduction is no longer ^jossible, even with the greatest efforts. }J 1033. In reducing dislocation of the upper-arm, the shoulder must ' oe well fixed, the arm extended to a proper degree, and its head oorought back in the same way in which it was dislocated. The patient ^".hould sit on a common seat, (in difficult cases it is advantageous to lay 1 aim horizontally on a couch,) a folded cloth is to be applied above the ta vrist, its two ends tied and given to an assistant. An oblong, tolerably it hick bolster should be put into the arm-pit, projecting beyond the edges of ^^f.he great muscles of the breast and back, and over it a folded cloth, the jfcnds of which are to be carried over the front and back of the chest, to «'he sound shoulder, there tied, and given to an assistant. For the more jb:omplete fixing of the shoulder-blade, a second cloth is applied, with its jlmiddle on the acromion, its ends carried obliquely forwards and backwards, ff owards the other side of the chest, and given to an assistant, who draws Pa properly in this direction towards him. Or the shoulder is fixed by oper bandage, (retractor,) through the opening of which the arm is ed (a). The Surgeon stands on the outside of the limb, and directs » .he assistants as to the direction and commencement of the extension, j In the dislocation downwards, extension must be made directly outwards, iind when carried to a proper extent, the arm must be pulled downwards, ) Jid somewhat fonvards till it be applied to the side of the body, when I he Surgeon rests his body again.st the elbow, and with both his hands 1 applied, the one on the upper, and the other on the under surface of the *>pper arm, carries the head back into the socket. 1: In dislocation inwards the extension must be made outwards and back- y vards, the arm brought forwards and downwards, till it lie obliquely iC across the front of the breast, and the Surgeon then assists the return of ! ihe head of the bone, by placing one hand upon the elbow and the other d >n the inside of the arm, and pressing the head outwards. The dislocation outwards requires extension in the opposite direction to |ihe preceding (a). C'*) Proper retractors are described by Pitschel zum Verbande. Leipz, 17%, p. 299. PI. viii. fig. 3 Anmerkungen. Dresden, 8, 9); by Schneider (Loder’s Journal, vol. ii. Mennel (Lodek's Journal, vol. p. 406) ; and by Astley Cooper. 4 d. p. 300); by Eckoldt (Kohler's Anleituiig