ITS SYMPTOMS. ' 369. may produce incapability of swallowing Hnids, but the distinction consists m the ab- sence of the catching of the breath. Upon this important point Elliotson remarks: From mere inflammation of the pharynx and surrounding parts, the muscles ot de- glutition are sometimes thrown into violent spasms, and the sulfering from this source IS so great, that even the offer of anything to be swallowed, (and of course it is fluids mly which are offered, on account of their being more easy to swallow,) produces ;he same effects even in a mere nervous state of the system. From a groundless ap- irehensioii of the disease the same circumstances may occur. It is certain, indeed, that iiany cases of these two descriptions have been mistaken for hydrophobia; but in the nere inflammation of the organs of deglutition, the other—the great symptom—the great ensibility of the surface to the sudden impression of air, etc., is of course not present, "sor is it present in mere nervous irritability of these organs. When the spurious hy- Irophobia arises from mere apprehension of the disease, the fear of swallowing only is oniplained of, as it is this which is vulgarly known as the chief characteristic of the lisease, and there is no morbid irritability of the surface to the impression of air. In- leed there is a mere inability to swallow, without that suddeu catching of the breath rhich I have described.” (p. 289.) (3) I very much doubt the truth of the assertion here made by Chelius, as also by lany other writers, of the patient’s disposition to bite. Dr. Powell, indeed, mentions aat his patient (a woman) struck and threatened to bite, and afterwards bit one of the tteudants; and Magendie {a) also states the same fact. I can only say, that I have ever seen a single instance in which any such attempt was made. But 1 recollect the ounger Cline, when lecturing on the subject of hydrophobia, mentioned it as a remark- ble fact, that animals affected with this disease are invariably disposed to use their rgans of offence; that thus the dog bites, the horse bites and strikes with his feet, cattle id sheep butt with their horns, and man strikes with his fists. And he was accustomed • refer to the case of a patient labouring under this dreadful malady, in St. Thomas’s hospital, who, when some drops of water were thrown upon him by a bystander to Iitice what effects would result, instantaneously rushed out at the foot of his bed, holt iright, in a paroxysm of fury, with his fists doubled and prepared to strike ; but im- ediately recovering himself, asked pardon, and returned to bed. I have never been itness of such scenes, for unfortunately these cruel experiments (for they deserve no itter name) have, in time past, been too frequently practised to doubt their issue, or to Ford any apology for their repetition ; and, therefore, the most scrupulous attention is lid to free the patient from every thing which can in the least degree tend to excite or crease his dreadful irritability.—j. y. s. I (4) Elliotson observes:—“ There is also in this disease a general morbid irritability, I that the patient is, from time to time, in a violent passion bordering on frenzy ; he is rhaps abusive, and even attempts to injure those about him; but in a moment again is pm, and apologises for his conduct. The degree of passion probably depends, in some pasure, upon the natural temper.” (p. 289.) “This kind of delirium,” says Youatt, w • iJAiu.>oTON s patients thought that there was a cloud of flies about him. ‘ Why do wu uot kill those hies ?’ he would cry ; and then he would strike at them with his hand^ VOL. I. (a) Journal de Physiologie lixperimentale, vol. i. 2 li