189 PSOAS AND LUMBAE ABSCESS. continues to be discharged. I do not know any circumstance under which their em- ployment should be withheld. The issue should not be made on the same side of the spine as that where the abscess is, if presenting in the loins, but on tlie other side, and opposite the outer margin of the m. quadratus Itimborum, And, if there be abscess in both lumbar regions, the issues should be put in above and below them. But, if the swelling present in the top of the thigh, as iu the psoas abscess specially so called, it may then be made on the same side, or, indeed, on both sides issues may be introduced. The issue should never be made upon the ridge of the spine, as, on account of the near- ness of the spinous processes to the skin, the periosteum and ligaments covering their tips may be involved in the slough, and the processes themselves become necrotic. Neither should it be made over or upon the abscess itself, as the separation of the slough will open its cavity. _ Large issues I do not think advisable: a slough as large as a sixpence, made with caustic potash, will, when thrown otF, leave a wound as big as a shilling, which is large enough to hold three or four glass beads, and amply sufficient, as with but little attention the issues can be kept open for a considerable time, and, when they swm disposed to heal, their surface must be smeared with the caustic potash suffi- ciently to produce a fresh slough, and, on its separation, the peas are to be again intro- duced. The intention of the issues is to divert the diseased action going on in the vertebral column, which is generally the cause of psoas or lumbar abscess, as already mentioned, and is a practice which I have found eminently successful.—j. f. s. (2) Much difference of opinion still exists among surgeons as to the propriety of waiting the self-evacuation of these abscesses, or of puncturing and emptying them either entirely or partially. ^ Abernethv asks, when the abscess “ protrudes the integuments, that they, from dis- tension, become irritated; that their temperature is slightly augmented; what are we then to do ? Are we to wait till evident signs of inflammation appear ? I think not. I would relieve them from distension, by emptying the abscess through a wound made by M abscess lancet. I would open the abscess for a reason which appears paradoxical on ite first proposal, which is that it may be kept closed. We can empty a cavity, and by healing the wound keep it afterwards shut, and no inflammation ensues. If nature opens the cavity by ulceration, the opening is permanent and the inflammation conse- quent must be endured.” (p. 153.) The practice of puncturing large abscesses with a trocar, seems to have been first advised by Deckers, m 1G96 ; he left the canula in the cavity stopped with a cork and kt out the matter at intervals. The same proceeding was also adopted by Benjamin bell. 1 apping these abscesses with a small trocar was also recommended bv Lrowjher^ who always introduced it at the same spot. He thought that the aperture M made did not fficerate, nor allow the matter to escape after being dressed. In addition Ina f tL® Latta (a) advises, that after this is effected the introduced at the bottom, should be pressed nently ^ the abscess, the trocar introduced into it and thrust thrL-^h thf ski/ and then, being withdrawn, a skein of silk to be passed through the canula, which is also SmuldT/-f’ (P- 360 The introduction of t/e seton is I too nmch to brdtl*'T '^■“Serous experiment, as likely to excite inflammation, always pH tl fc ^ P^’’‘ to run into that condition. I have n/vm" And IS tn * DO}’’/®'' the reason just mentioned, should I be disposed to do so / id I ^®t see any advantage to beTbteined w intiX”iffi%S^^^ “-n abscess lancet should be half an inch in lenath -iml thni of t) a ‘ f of the cyst of the abscess where it presents itself is emptied before’that^mi of ®”?Pt*®^- The abscess The surgeon should then press the sides of tlfp wo ^ completely so. thumb, so as to prevent the^ ingress of ah and de^rp“tL ^°^®Pter with his finger and which will impel the matter Lm the iteri iarof ^ to cough repeatedly, »rp,..,,. (p. .MO aW.” rsppf rpS-j W 1 radical System of Surgery, vol. i. ^