320 HISTORY OF THE Before dismissing the subject of bleeding from wounds, it will l>e neither uninteresting nor unprofitable to give a slight account “ OF THE INTRODUCTION, OR RATHER RESUMPTION OF THE LIGATURE OF VESSELS, As now employed, into the practice of Surgery. There is no doubt that the ligature was used by the ancient surgeons ; but Celsus appears to be the first who relied much upon it. To stop the flow of blood from a wound, he recommends that it should be filled with dry lint, over which a sponge dipped in cold water is to be applied, and pressure made with the hand. These applications are to be frequently renewed; and if the lint alone be unavailing, then vinegar is to be applied, as being very effident in suppressing heemorrhage, on which account some pour it into the wound. And he then proceeds, “ quod si ilia quoque profluvio vincuntur vena;, qua; sanguinem fundunt, apprehendendae, circaque id, quod ictum est, duobus loots deliyandce, intercidendceque sunt, ut et in se ipsae coiiant, et nihilominus ora pra;clusa habeaut.” {lib. v. c. xxi.) And he also directs, in treating of castration, “ in quibus cum multte venae discurrant, tenuiores quidem prax;idi protinus possunt: majores vero ante longiore lino deliganda sunt; ue periculose san- guinem fundat.” {lib. vii. c. xix.) After some time, but when is uncertain, the use of the ligature gave way to the practice of searing the wound with a hot iron, or of applying various caustic remedies, and no more is heard of it till Thomas Gale, Maister in Chirurgerie, again brings it forward in describ- ing the various kinds of stitches required in the treatment of wounds (a), as follows;— “ The fourth maner of stiching is when as a vayne or arterie is cut, and we use to stay the flux of blood, especially when as vene iugulares is cut. Then we thurst the needle through that vaine or arterye and then knit the same with the thried, then draw out the needle and let a portion of the threed hange out so longe untyll it falleth awaye.” (p. 3.) Subsequently, also, in speaking specially “ of woundes in vaynes and arteries,” he says:—“ If they be the smalle vaynes it shall suffyce to stiche the wound and use the pouder desiccatiue mencioned in the chapter goyng before, with twoe and the whighte of an egge. But if any of the great vaines be wounded, then the cure aforesaid is not sufficient. Wherefore you may attempt to stay the fluxe of blood with bending the con- trary side to the place wounded; or with letting of blood in another place, whereby there is made diuersion of the fluxe. Also wyth frictions and rubbing the contrary parts. Yf these suffice not, then you must applye causticke pouders as arsenicum sublimatum, vitriall burnt, unsleked lime, or such like; or ells make cauterization with an yron, or stiche the ende of the vaine. And lay some desiccatiue pouder on it, and so dresse the wounde, lettyng it so remayne foure daies. And if there be any asker, (escar,) you must apply to it the whight of an egge and oile of roses well beaten together. And the cure that is heare spoken of vaines, is also to be understand of arteries; and the way to know whether a vaine or arterie is wounded: is by the yssuing oute of the blood. For in an arterie cut, the blood commeth leping and springing out with sume staye, accordinge to the dilatation and compressyon of the arterye.” (p. 4.) From the notes which Malgaigne has added to his recent edition of Pare’s works, it appears that when Pare' published his Surgery, in 15.5'2, he still employed the actual cautery, and made no mention of tying vessels till the following edition in 1564, pub- lished at Paris, and bearing the title Dix livres de Chirurgie avec Le Magasin des Instrwmens necessaires d icelle, in the seventh book of which, speaking of the "treatment of gangrene and mortification which requires amputation, he first recommends tying the vessels to suppress bleeding after that operation in the following terms:— “ Des moiens pour arrester le flux de sang quand le membre est couptf. “ Lorsque I’amputation du membre est faitte: il est necessaire que quelque quantite' du sang s’escoule, U fin qu’a la partie deschargee y suruiennent moins d’acci- alle/lai^rlluer dents, et ce selon la plenitude et force du malade. * • Le sang du sang apres escould en quantite suffisante (prenans tousiours indication des forces I’amputation du (Jq malade) il faut promtement lier les grosses veines et arteres si fenne membre. qu’elles ne fluent plus. Ce qui se fera en prenant lesditz vaisseaux auec vn tel instrument nommd bee de corbin. De cest instrument faut pinser lesdits vais- II n’ a dan et tirant et amenant hors de la chair, dans laquelle se sont retires de Her "'quel'que cachez soudain apres I’extirpation du membre, aiusi que font toutes portion de chair autres parties tousiours vers leur origine. Ce faisant il ne te fiiut cstre auec les dits tais- trop curieux de ne pinser seulement que lesdits vaisseaux: pourcequ’il n’y a danger de prendre auec eux quelque portion de la chair des muscles (a) An Enchiridion of Chirurgerie, conteyning the exaefe and perfect Cure of wounds, fractures, and dislocations ; newly compiled and published. London, ISM.