155 GONORRHOEA. Bacot, John, A Treatise on Syphilis, &c. London, 1829. 8vo. Abernetuy, John, Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Surgery. Lond., 1830 8vo. Eisenmann, der Tripper in alien seinem Formen und in alien seinem Folgen, vol. ii. Erlangen, 1830. 8vo. Wallace, William, A Treatise on tlie Venereal Disease and its Varieties. London, 1838. 8vo. Ricord, Philippe, M.D., Traitd Pratique des Maladies Vencriennes; on, Recher- ches Critiques et Expe'rimentales sur ITnoculation appliquee a I’etude de ces Maladies. Paris, 1838. 8vo. The same Hanslated, as A Practical Treatise on Venereal Diseases; or. Critical and Experimental Researches on Inoculation applied to the study of these affections, &c., by H. P. Drummond, M.D. London, 1842. 8vo.—[N.B. The quota- tions are from this translation, but compared with the original.—J. F. S.] Besides these, the works upon the Venereal Disease, referred to in Venereal Sores. 154. Injiammation of the internal membrane of the Urethra, vulgarly called Clap, {^Gonorrhcea, Blennorrhoea, Blennorrhagia Urethrce, Ure- thritis, Urethralgia, Lat.; Tripper, Germ.; Chaude-pisse, Fr.,) is pro- duced by any irritation of the urethra by a foreign body, by gouty, rheu- matic, scrofulous acrimony, but most commonly by contagion in coition. [“The disease,” says SwEDiAUR(a), “is commonly called a Clap, from the old French word clapiers, which were public shops kept and inhabited by single prosti- tutes, Md generally confined to a particular part of the town, as we see still to-day in several great towns in Italy.”—Qiote, p. 22.) He disapproves of the term gonorrhoea, ^ conveying an incorrect notion, and proposes the use of Blennorrhagia, signifying a now of mucus. Wallace objects to the employment of either designation, and pro- p<KK,_in their stead, that of Venereal or Syphilitic Catarrh, which, however, is merely a trivial alteration of the modern French name, Catarrhe Urethrale.'\ 155. The symptoms and course of gonorrhoea vary considerably. In men at a shorter or longer period, usually six, eight or ten days after an impure connexion G), there arises a tickling sensation at the orifice of the urethra, which frequently spreads over the whole glans ; the lips of the orifice are a'ld inflamed (2) ; and the discharge of urine is painlul (3). After some time a discharge takes place, at first more serous, yellowish white. The pain is some- itS towards the root of the penis, which Itself swells (4) ; the orifice of the urethra is much inflamed, excoriated urethr^G) and ^^“['^l/^ections occur with bleeding from the veni‘1 nr 2n body itself be swollen, painfd curving of the Son on account of its not yielding durfng the erection (8). The patient often feels a heaviness in the pelvis • the fern turn, testicles, and perinaeum become very tender tQ) • tlm n/ f + inguinal glands, pailiful and swollen T^Lurface o^ the backwards over the g”a'ns'(V<ino^?or ifThM brought it remains eonstrieted, behind the glan’s fluid discharged from the iireibrn 1= n ."'P ihe puriform tity, discoloured, gleenLh eten R fr wholly suppressed, {dry gonorrhoea \ febrl ^ unfrequently the tasticles, of the eyesf and swellin-s of t m inflammation of gonorrhoea the inflammation mav hf ef • acute produce dangerous retention of urine («) Practical Observations on Venereal Complaints. Edinburgh, 1788. 8vo.