579 FRACTUKES OF THE KNEE-CAP. litfitlent cannot bear them. To these belong the bandages and apparatus ii f Bucking (a), Evers (5), Moiirenheim (c), B. Bell (d), Boyer (e), 'JL. Cooper (/), Baillif (ff), Fest (/i), and many others. ^ 697. If, as is generally the case, inflammation and swelling immediately [i|et in together, they must be first got rid of by proper treatment, the jint being kept in the position already described, (par. 694,) before ^ proceeding to set the fracture, and to the application of bandages. As ften as the apparatus becomes loose, it must be reapplied ; in seven or , ight weeks’ time it may be removed, but the patient must still be very ij areful in moving about. The longer the patient remains quiet, the sooner I ony union takes place. A stiffness of the joint frequently continues, which nly gradually subsides; often incurable anchylosis ensues (1). The ! xtter seems to arise from the application of the bandages, before the in- i aramation of the joint is got rid of. If the intersubstance be very wide, i he knee must be supported with an elastic bandage. The motions of the ^ mb in these cases may be also often improved, if gradual and more violent i( lotions of the leg be performed, by which the contracted m. rectus again { sngthens itself to a certain degree (2). M f(l) I have never seen anchylosis of the knee-joint from fracture of the knee-cap, nd can only imagine its occurrence under very peculiar circumstances.—j. f. s. , | (2) John Hunter observes:—“ Other things are to be done after the union has taken flace. First, the accommodation of the muscles to their new situation, where less 4.‘ngth is necessary, from the patella having become longer; secondly, the new con- ic^'action in this new situation; thirdly, acquiring sufficient strength in it. We have 4aason to believe that the greatest contraction in a muscle is somewhat greater than the ■^)int will allow of; for we find them firm when the limb is stretched, as if the power >1|i'as greater; and when the part is deprived of this firm band, we find the muscles draw rone bone up higher than they should. Thus the upper part of the patella is always arawn up when the bone is broken. While the union is taking place, the muscles are ommodating themselves to the great length of the bones. After this it will be ne- ssary to bend the limb and keep it so, in order that the muscles may be thus enabled ( admit of an elongation equal to the fiexure of the limb, by which means the patient •ill be enabled easily to bend the limb. Extension will not be so easy; still, by per- mfwerance, it may be acquired.” (p. 512.) He then mentions a case in which the broken pieces of bone having been left far apart, the patient had lost the use of her limb, ^Ithongh it could be swung backwards and forwards as she sat upon a high table ; and Sile considered that he cured her simply by inducing her to direct her will to the excite- riyent of the action of the rectus muscle. And he explained how this was effected, first, iJ the condition of the muscle, “ that the space between the two attach- ( nents of the rectus being much shortened, white the muscle continued of the same Angth, the utmost degree of its contraction would scarcely be able to straighten itself, rfhuch less move the patella and leg also.” And then, that “ if the influence of the mind 'jvas frequently exerted on the muscle, it would gain this power of contraction, in which lij; would probably be aided by the interstitial absorption taking place, and actually athortening the muscle, and suiting its length to the office it was to perform.” (p. 513.) Stn other -words, and more briefly, the object is to produce in the rectus muscle a re- •'{overy of its tonicity, by educating it to contract and permanently shorten itself, so that may re-acquire the power of acting on the knee-cap, and extending the leg which it 0: reviously had, but of which it is deprived by the ascent of the broken part of the knee- f ;ap rendering it lax instead of tort when the leg is straight. 'l l I believe the best mode of recalling the m. rectus to its proper function is, after having ept the patient in bed five or six weeks, by which time it may be presumed whatever V inion will, has taken place, to get him up, place him on a table, with his ham on its » age, and direct him to swing the leg backwards and forwards, frequently during the P- (e) Above cited,pi. iii > U) BeoWtungen verschiedener chirurgischen ^ OTiaie, vol 1. Wien, 1780. ir Wundarzneikunst, vol. iv. V, .430. pUiv. f. 1,2, 3. , lbovecited,pl.ui. (/) Above cited, pi. ix. f. 9,10,11 (g) Ortalli, De fracturfi Patella:. p.52. Berol., 1827, (/i) Dissert, de fracturd Patella:. 1827. 4to. 2 p 2