335 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. IV.—OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ( Vulnera sclopetariuy Lat.; Schusswunden, Germ.; Plates par armes dfeu, Fr.) Pare”, A., Manifere de trailer les Plaies faites par arquebuses, flbches, etc. Paris, 15.51. 8vo. Gale, Thomas, An excellent Treatise of Wounds made ■with Gunshot, in which is confuted both the grose error of Jerome of Brunswicke, &c., in that they wound venomous, which cometh through the common powder and shotte. And also, there is set out a perfect and true Methode of Curinge those Woundes. London, 1563. 8vo. Clowes, William, Aprooved Practise for all young Chirurgions concerning Burn- ings with Gunpowder and Woundes made with Gunshot, Sword, &c. London, 1588. 4to. W”isEMAN, Richard, A Treatise of Gunshot Wounds; in his Eight Chirurgical Treatises. London, 1676. folio. 4th Edit., 1705, here used. Bro\vn, John, A Compleat Discourse of Wounds, both in general and particular. As also a Treatise of Gunshot Wounds in general. London, 1678. 4to. Le Dhan, Traite, on Reflexions tirees de la pratique sur les Plaies d’Armes k feu. Pa- ris, 1740. 4to. Amsterdam, 1741. 8vo., here used. Louis, A., Cours de Chirurgie pratique sur les Plaies d’Armes k feu. Paris, 1746. 4to. Ravaton, Chirurgien d’armee, ou Traite des Plaies d’Armes k feu et d’Armes blanches. Paris, 1768. 8vo. Schmidt, Preissschrift von der Behandlung der Schuss'wunden. Wien, 1788. Percy, Manuel de Chirurgien d’armde, ou Instruction de Chirurgie Militaire sur le iTraitement de Plaies, et specialement de celles d’Armes k feu: avec la methode d’extraire de ces plaies les corps etrangers, et la description d’un nouvel instrument propre k cet usage. Paris, 1792. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds. Edited by E. Home. London, 1794. 4to. Dufauart, Analyse des Blessures d’Armes k feu, et de leur Traitement. Paris, 1801. 8vo. Lombard, Clinique Chirurgicale des Plaies faites par Armes k feu. Strasbourg, 1804. 8vo. Guthrie, G. J., On Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities requiring the different Oper- ations of Amputation; with their After-treatment. London, 1815. 8vo. 3rd Edit. 1827. Thomson, Dr. John, Report of Observations made in the British Military Hospitals in Belgium, after the battie of Waterloo, with some Remarks on Amputation. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1816. ^ Hennen, John, Observations on some important points in the Practice of Military Surgery, and the arrangement and police of Hospitals. Edinburgh, 1818. 8vo. 2nd Edit. 1820. Dupuytren, Des Blessures par Armes k feu; in his Le9ons orales de Clinique Chirur- icale, vol. ii. p. 417. Besides these the treatises of Boucher, Bordenave, De la Martiniehe, and Faure in the Mdmoires de I’Acaddmie de Chirurgie, and the greater number of the writers on *®^ounds in general, already quoted. 334. Gun-shot Wounds are those produced by hard, usually metallic todies, as balls of various size, pieces of lead and so on, projected by |:he explosion of gunpowder. They are therefore, in the highest degree truised wounds. The violence with which the body causing the division, pf organic parts acts, is so great that, as a consequence of the immense bruising and tearing, it is always accompanied with disorgzaniation that s, with a slough. ’ from one another, which will happen, ^ ^ circumstances. These variations will be in general according to the Wnd b f body projected, the velocity of the body, with the naturl and peculiaritief of the parte