547 THE RIBS. The upper two ribs on the right side were broken near their cartilages ; and the upper kVC on the left side through their middle. The cavity of the left pZcHm contained two •ints of bloody serum, and the left lung was collapsed, and torn at its apex. iharp splintered end of one of the ribs, which had penetrated the pleura, had passed ■Iso through the pericardium, which contained a small clot of blood, and wounded the •eart near its apex. There was a large tear through the right side of the diaphragm, iut no blood in the cavity of the belly.—J. F. S.] 627. The diagnosis of this fracture is often very difficult, as the broken mds can project only inwards and outwards (indeed, in many cases the woken ends resume their natural position); and this displacement, espe- ially in fat persons, often cannot be well distinguished, particularly if •welling have already commenced. The patient feels a fixed and more or ess severe pain, which increases on breathing; crepitation is felt if the land be placed on the seat of fracture and the patient bidden to cough ; repitation, and frequently unevenness of tlie ribs, if they be closely ixamined through their whole length and a moving pressure made on idem. An air swelling (emphysema') appearing on the seat of injury is an Indoubted proof of fracture of a rib. ; 628. The local treatment of fracture of the ribs consists merely in pre- lenting their motions, by means of a broad breast-band applied sufficiently tght. If the broken ends have fallen inwards, or have an inclination so I) do, a compress is to be placed on the fore and liind ends of the broken one, and over them the chest-bandage. The especial object of this ban- aging is always the restriction of the violent motions of the chest; the atient no longer hears so frequently the striking together of the fractured •ids, and the pain is always much diminished. It is, therefore, improper ot to apply a bandage, as recommended by many persons. The treatment r the patient must, in other respects, be in reference to the inflammatory ondition produced by the violence itself or by the fracture. The patient lould observe the strictest quiet, and must be frequently bled, and so on. L severe cough, which causes much pain, and produces displacement of le ends of the fracture, requires, with the proper antiphlogistic treat- lent, antispasmodic remedies, an emulsion with nitre, opium, or extract " hyoscyamus. If extravasation of blood occur in the cavity of the chest, r emphysema^ they must be treated according to the rules laid down in •ounds of the chest. For the purpose intended a properly applied chest-band is sufficient. Graefe employs 1 elastic chest-girdle with spiral springs; Labret, his immovable apparatus; and JOTiN applies pasteboard splints; Maxgaigne will prevent respiration on the sound ie hut not on the injured side, by sticking plaster, which passes from the seventh rib the affected side back to the spine, and above the healthy shoulder, and terminates at e hip of the injured side. A padded pasteboard splint, according to Baillie, applied, ith an aperture for the seat of fracture, would afford great ease. [Although in fracture of the ribs of one side, bandaging the chest (without, however, e compresses which Chelius recommends in some cases to be applied) is the most ■oper and efficient treatment, yet, if the ribs on both sides be broken, and especially many of them, no bandage must be employed, as the breast-bone being partially un- pported, the broken ribs slip behind each other, and being thrust into the pleurcB, nder the patient’s condition worse. The only thing to be done, therefore, is to keep e chest raised, and so supported by pillows as to keep it as much at rest as possible d encourage breathing by the diaphragm. ’ When there is much and inconvenient emphysema, a few punctures through the skin lOuld be made for the escape of the air.—J. F. S.] •w 629. The cartilages connecting the ribs with the breast-bone may break without being ossified. If the fracture of the cartilage be near the breast- ; 2n2