MIXED ANCHYLOSIS. 245 The following is n similar instance, but of much shorter duration, and strengthens my opinion of the long existence of the fibrous structure just mentioned. Case 2.—E. B., aged thirteen years, a fine boy, but of strumous appearance, became my patient in December, 1839. Five years since, but without any injury, he had some aS'ection of liis right knee-joint, accompanied with much pain and drawing up of the heel, so that he could not put the whole sole of his foot upon the ground. He was not, however put under medical treatment till the lapse of six months; but the knee became more and more bent, and about two years since the leg was so much drawn up that the foot would not reach the ground. About this time an abscess, doubtless connected with the joint, burst just above the outer condyle, from which pus was freely discharged, and the pain he had previously suffered diminished. The wound became sinuous and has so continued to the present time. The leg is now bent upon the thigh at an acute angle, beyond which it cannot be straightened, though it may be bent up to the thigh with a little pain. The condyles of the thigh-bone project in front of the head of the shin-bone, which rests entirely on the hind articular surfaces of the former. The knee-cap is sunk between the condyles, and ' between it and the head of the shin-bone is a large fluid cushion, painful on pressure, : and occupying the place of the ligament, which seems completely destroyed. Upon 1 the inside of the knee there is also tenderness. Amputation above the knee was performed, and he did well. On examination of the joint, a sinus was found extending around the outer condyle I to the knee-cap, behind which was some scrofulous matter. All the articular surfaces were connected by fibrous structure, but some portions of cartilage still remained. ' Within the epiphysis of the head shin-bone was a small portion of dead bone, but not communicating with the joint. That soft or fibrous and bony anchylosis may occasionally, though rarely, happen at the same time I do not deny, as they are shown to do so by the following Case.—J. M., aged forty-two years, a stout healthy sailor, was put under my care in ' May, 1838. Two years ago he was attacked suddenly twice or thrice, without assignable cause, with numbness of the left leg and knee, and inability to stand upon it for four or five minutes, after which he moved about as freely as usual. In August of the same year he caught violent cold, was very sick, and his knee began to ache constantly, ac- companied with shooting pain. Soon after he was unable to bend the joint at all with- out excessive pain. In the following month, his leg having become perfectly straight and incapable of motion without great pain in the knee, the inside of which was very tender, he was admitted into the hospital. He was then freely leeched, cupped, blis- itered, and had his mouth kept sore for a long while. Under this treatment the active stage of the disease passed by, but the leg gradually became half bent by his own effort to render his position more easy, and I could not ascertain whether it could be then straightened. It was however determined to attempt anchylosis in the bent posture, and the limb was therefore put on an Amesbhky’s apparatus, where it was kept for seve- ral months. In the May of the year following, anchylosis being presumed to have taken place, the apparatus was removed, and he walked on crutches, the toe touching the ground; but he could not bear on it without having pain in the knee. As his home was at the sea-side it was thought advisable that he should go there; but after remain- ing about six weeks, he came up to another hospital where he continued for three months, during which time a screw apparatus was applied for the purpose of straightening the limb, but no benefit resulting, he went home in the following September. He has now come to me to have amputation performed, as though the joint is quite fixed and but little larger than the other, he is still unable to walk without crutches, cannot bear upon the limb, and if he accidentally strike the toe, has severe pain in the knee. His general health good. On the second of June I amputated through the thigh, but he died three weeks after of peripneumony and ulceration of the mucous membrane af the bowels. On dissection of the joint it was found covered with fat, and the ligaments had dege- nerated into a sort of half-fatty, half-cartilaginous structure. A vertical section made jn the inner edge of the knee-cap and from before to behind presented a firm anchylo- sis, which appeared bony on the sides, and specially on the inner side of the joint The ainder half of the condyles being destroyed and the knee half bent, the thigh'at its runcated part rested on the head of the shin-bone, but not immediately, as a quantity of lense fatty fibrous tissue was interposed between them. This new structure was about lalf an inch thick behind towards the ham, but in front it thinned and became sharp, so « to have a wedge-hke shape. Where the articular surface remained tliere was a thin ayer of cartilage. The knee-cap was anchylosed by bone to the outer condyle, but its \