228 ULCERATION OF suppuration in the joint occurs : it breaks, and hectic fever destroys the patient. Althougli the course of this disease is nearly always insidious in its beginning, peculiar conditions may increase the symptoms, and the disease assume an acute form, Mayo (a) speaks of “three distinct forms of ulceration” of joint-cartilages, which, al- though they may be occasionally combined, are oftener met with separately, (p. 49.) First. Rapid absorption of cartilage beginning on its synovial aspect; the new surface if cartilaginous, being smooth and unaltered in structure ; if of bone, healthy ; the abl sorption of cartilage being attended with inflammation of the capsular synovial mem- brane. (p. 50.) This form is “ of rare occurrence. The absorption of cartilage takes place rapidly. It is attended with severe pain, with inflammation of the capsular sy- novial ligament, and generally with suppuration in the cellular tissue adjacent to the joint. The only favourable termination of the disease, that I have witnessed, is anchy- losis. Second. Chronic ulceration of cartilage beginning on its synovial aspect, produ- cing an irregularly excavated surface with fibrous or brush-like projections of the carti- lage and synovial membrane, attended with inflammation of the capsular synovid mem- brane, and sometimes of the same membrane where it is reflected over the cartilage, the bone and the surface of cartilage towards it being healthy, (p. 53.) Third. Ab^rp- tion of cartilage beginning on the surface towards the bone, attended with inflammation of the adjacent surface of the bone, with inflammation of the synovial membrane, and sometimes with sensible vascularity of the cartilage itself.” (p. 59.) [As to the inflammation of cartilage, if such there be, Wilson (b) obsen'es, “the • active powers of life are possessed by articular cartilages in a very limited degree, so • much so, that the ocular demonstration is wanting of their being capable of inflamma^ ■ tion. This affection is in other parts marked by a state of vessels easily distinguished,. by the eye and by the touch; but, as vessels are not to be seen or felt in these cartilage^ . we have not sufficiently decisive proofs of inflammation ever taking place in them. I : have never seen in articular cartilages, which were completely formed, any vessels • either filled with its own blood or having its cavity distended by injection.” (pp. 327,28.) i John Hunter (c) takes no notiee of this point at all; but, after speaking of the ■ union of fractured cartilage by bone, proceeds;—“ Sometimes the inflammation goes on i to suppuration; but they (the cartilages) seem to have insufficient power to adWt of f ulceration, yet they may be absorbed by the absorbents of other parts, as in white swell- - ings, when suppurated, the cartilaginous ends are removed by the absorbents on the f surface of the ends of the bone that the cartilage covers. It may be ulcerated in this i manner in other joints also: in the knee we find all the different stages of absorption of i cartilage ; granulations will shoot from under the cartilage, and sometimes, when there t is not much matter in the joint, these granulations will inosculate and form a bony f union, (p. 535.) Wilson says that “the synovial membrane which lines the capsular ligament, andd is reflected from it over part of the bone to the edge of the articular cartilage, will ,1 indeed sometimes pass a little way on the surface; it there becomes inseparably con- r nected with the cartilage, and its appearance is then lost.” But he continues:—“ In a i diseased state of joint, I certainly have seen the surfaces of the articular cartila^n covered by a membrane, but this membrane 1 have no reason to believe to have l>een a originally more than a coating of coagulable lymph; it is of different degrees of thick-, ness, and at first easily peels from the surface it covers, but it soon becomes orgauiaed* and very vascular. In a preparation, belonging to the Windmill-street museum, vesseblf seem to pass from this new formed membrane into little inequalities on the surface of 4 the cartilage, and it is far from improbable but that absorbent vessels may be among | these, and which are employed, along with the absorbents from the bone, in rcmovmgJ the articular cartilage. * * • I do not mean to deny the possibility of the remoial u being attempted partially by vessels belonging to their own substance, so as to produce '< some of the appearances called ulceration of cartilages; but we are deficient in proofs'! of this, and, from what I have observed of the state and appearance of diseased joints, I am induced to abide by the opinion entertained by John Hunter, that the removal of ■ articular cartilages is generally effected by the vessels of the neighbouring more vascular* parts, viz., of the bones and synovial ligaments, and occasionally by the vessels of co- agulated and organized lymph.” (pp. 328, 29.) (a) On Ulceration of the Cartilages of Joints; in the parts composing the Skeleton, and on tlie Wf Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix. easesofthellonesand Joints, &c. Lend., liCO. svo. (b) Lectures on the Structure and Physiology of (c) Lectures; Palmxb'b Ejiition.