25 CAUSES. the inflammation, which at first was to be considered merely as a dynamic disease, brings about distinct changes in the structure of organs. Ihe increased activity of the nerves and capillary-vascular system produces a more copious infiltration into the cellular tissue than in the natural state; a part of the ^erum—in some cases even of the red part of the blood— penetrates through the expanded walls of the vessels, and empties itself into tlie cellular tissue. The walls of the cells are, therefore, in this ca.se, found thickened, filled with a serous, albuminous, often bloody fluid, in which frequently albuminous flakes float or are connected with the walls of the cells. The changed condition and increased plasticity of the blood is sliown by thecrustainflammatoria, which consists of the fibrin of the blood. According to the different degree of irritation, and the consequent reaction of the I nervous system, so long as, excepting the pain, no other appearance of inflammation ; exists, (which condition many consider as the forerunner of inflammation,) there is pro- I duced a spasmodic contraction with accelerated motion of the blood in the small ves- ;• sels, upon which first follow their vital expansion, the greater influx of blood, and the i other phenomena of increased living actions (7). A comparison may therefore be insti- t tuted between these local appearances and those coming in with inflammatory fever, i As we have there contractions of the vessels and obstruction of the circulation, so we have here chilliness, contraction of the skin, small pulse, which are followed by the . phenomena of vital expansion of the vascular system, increased warmth, and so on. In the commencement there is in a manner present an inflammatory spasm—the vascular »system is entirely controlled by the nervous system. With the increased influx of the ; blood, aud its accumulation in the capillary vessels, is the previously quickened motion ■ of the blood corpuscles retarded, the capillary vessels, by flie consequent exudation of ; the serum, become completely filled with blood-corpuscles, and an actual stagnation, an inflammatory stasis ensues, but which is not to be considered as a passive over-filling, i [(1) But what causes this increased action of the nerves ? The squeezing and stretching r of the minute nerves of the part, by the increased size of the capillary vessels, resulting /from the obstruction of the current of blood through them, which occurs at the very {onset, and which, indeed, is, as will be presently shown, the first step of the inflammatory {process. Travers (a) considers “ the pain of inflammation directly or indirectly con- nected with the state of the blood-vessels,” and it is, “ probably, the nerves of the blood- rvessels that are first excited in the pain of inflammation.” (pp. 46, 7.) This opinion Hs corroborated by referring to John Hunter’s observations on the passage of the ad- ihesive to the suppurative inflammation, in which he says, “ The pain is increased at ithe time of the dilating of the arteries, which gives the sensation called throbbing, in •which every one can count his own pulse, from paying attention merely to the inflamed >part; and perhaps this last symptom is one of the best characteristics of this species of Imflammation." (p. 378.) And in a previous passage he had observed:—“ Whether this ipain arises from the distension of the artery by the force of the heart, or whether it arises from the action of distension from the force of the artery itself, is not easily de- termined.” (p. 287.) The throbbing, however, is not entirely confined to suppurative, ■but also accompanies acute, inflammation; and Travers has well observed:—“ Throb- ibing, lancinating or pulsatile pain,—i. e. pain accompanied with a sense of motion of the ifluids in the part,—is the most characteristic distinction of acute inflammation ; and an obtuse, aching, or heavy pain belongs to a congested state of the local circulation.” And he also points out that “ the description of pain unattended with inflammation, differs from the pain of inflammation, although the former is subject also to varieties in kind duration and intensity observing that “ Neuralgia is generally attended more or less with muscular cramp or spasm, and such pain is either intermitting or periodicaland •-hat such medicaments “ as relieve pain in the absence of inflammation have little or -10 beneficial effect on the pain of inflammation. Blood-letting aggravates neuralgia ind relieves inflammatory pain. Steel and arsenic aggravate inflammatory pain, and :ure neuralgia.” (pp. 45,6.) (2) According to hisneuropathological theory, Henle(6) asserts, that “ it is through ihe nervous system that the exciting cause of inflammation operates, by suspending the (a) Physiology of Inflammation. (6j I have made use of the Dige.st of this Au- hors Pathoiogische Untersuchungon, 1840, land if his liericht uber die Arbciten im Gebiet der rationellen Pathologic seit Anfang des Jahres, 1839; in Wharton Jones’s excellent Report on the Theory of Inflammation, in Forbes’s Brit and For. Med. Review, vol. xvii., 1844.—(J. F.S.)