6G8 ZITTMANN AND WEINMOLD’S TREATMENT. cure by tlie prescribed diet. Frequently tlie pills are thrown up and then they must be again taken in divided doses. Nausea, disposition to vomit, and even actual vomiting, during the use of the decoction sub.side, if a smaller quantity of the decoction be drunk at one time. I have ob- served, in one instance, severe pain in the belly every time after taking the weak decoction, and frequently a gentle, not very lengthened sali. vation, has been noticed (a). The Arabian treatment and dry diet resembles that with Zittbiann’s decoction (i). Here also must be mentioned the plan of treatment proposed by Dzondi (c), in ■which the patient commences witli one-fifth of a grain of sublimate in four pills, taken immediately after dinner; from day to day the medicine is increased by two additional pills, so that on the last day of the cure, which occupies twenty-seven days, thirty pills, or Ij grain of the sublimate, is taken at a dose. All this time the patient live* moderately, keeps himself warm, and drinks sarsaparilla tea. If the cure be disturbed by salivation, after that has been relieved, the number of pills still remaining must be continued. If mercury have been previously immoderately or irregularly used, sul- phur should be first employed internally or in baths. According to Kluge (rf), Dzondi’s treatment is not to he depended on; in certain' cases, however, especially in ulcers of the bones and nose, it is very eflBcacious. 855. In reference to the efficacy of the friction-cure, of Zittman.n’s decoction and of Weinhold’s treatment, I must undoubtedly give the preference to the former over the latter, which, according to my ex- perience, more frequently checks than actually cure the disease ; often in- deed it cannot be borne, and may often continue injurious and scarcely to be gotten rid of disturbance in the functions of the alimentary canal, which depend on an usual and peculiar treatment. The friction cure and Zittmann’s decoction, in general, act more surely ; but the latter is con- nected with by far less inconvenience to the patient, on which account, according to my present experience, I prefer Zittmann’s decoction to the friction cure, and only employ the latter when the former has been in- efficient. The effect of this decoction I have proved, not merely in all forms of syphilis, but also in other inveterate disease. Compare my above-mentioned statement, in which I have endeavoured to contradict the opinions put forward by Neumann (e) against the friction-cure, and in favour of "Weinhold’s mode of treatment. What is the result oIWeinhold’s treatment, when, from the coming on of salivation, it be not determined to interrupt the cure, (which Weinhold and Neubiann expressly enjoin,) I cannot from my own experience determine. (a) Chelius, tJeber die Anwendung des Dccoct. ZiTTM. im Vergleiche mit anderen gegen inver- terirte Lustseuclie und andere Krankheiten empfohlenen Beliandlungsweisen; in Heidelb. klinisch. Annal. vol. i. pt. i. p. 116. Hacker; inHeidelberger klinischen Annalen; in IIust's Magazin, vol. xxxix. pt. i. p. 1.—vol. Ixvii. pt. ii. p. 203. Habel, Ueber die Heilkraft des Zitt.mann De- coctes in seciindarer Syphilis; in Med. Jahrbncliern des osten Staates. Neue Folge, vol. ix. 1835. Martios, Einige Uemerkungen Tiber das De- coctum ZiTTMANNi; in Heidelberg med. Annalen, vol. ix. pt. iii. p. 418. (fc) S. Gandy, Apercu sur I’efficacite du Traite- ment dit arabique dans les Maladies Sypliilitiques on anciennes on degenerees. Montpellier, 11^7. Kbaatsch ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xvii. p. 177. Schaeffer, Dissert, sur I’emploi du Mercure Sublime et leTraitemcnt arabique dans les Maladies Sypliilitiques. Strasbourg, 1825. Co) Dzondi, Neue zuverlSssige Heilart dcr Lustseuclie. Halle, 1832. Second Edit.—F. .\. Si- mon, jun., Ueber den sublimat. und die Inunctions- kur, mit besonderer Beziehnng auf Dzondi’s neM zuverlassige Heilart von Lustseuche, und die LouvRiER-UuST’sclie Inunctionskur. Hamburg, 1826. Bartels einige Bemurkungen Tiber Pioxw* neue Heilart derLustseuche ; in voNGRAKFEund VON Wai.ther's Journal, vol. ix. p. 513. (d) Bericht Tiber die, auf hoheren Befehl nut der DzoNDi’schen Heilmethod gegen die Ian*" seuclie in dem Berl. (lharite-Krankenhause steilten Kurversuche und deren RcsulUte, new Gutachten Tiber die Methode selbst; in Rust* Magazin, vol. xxvi. p. 211. (e) Verglcichung der LouvRiER'schen unu WEiNiiOLD’schen Methode, das Quecksilber anxn* wenden ; in von Graefe und von Waltbez* Journal, vol. ii. p. 405. WiTTCKE, Dissert.de Weinholdii Hydrargyrom adhibendi methodo. Berol. 1821. Neu.mANN, Tiber die Lu.stscuchc; in vox GbaEF und VON Walther's Journal, vol. xvii. p. L Heinze, Ueber die Hekarapfung der Lustseu diircli eine modillcirte Inunctionskur, u. »• Wien, 1836.