690 I SEQUESTEIJ. trates it; in necrosis the bone is even and hard, and though rough, not, liowever, yieldinc.i and soft; tlie bony splinters thrown off are in caries small, dust-like, and destructible: | in superficial necrosis they are layer-like, in deep necrosis large, firm, and of the naturabj condition of bone ; the periosteum or medullary membrane is in caries usually mucb'^ changed or destroyed, whilst the one or the other or even both in necrosis preserve theii 4 integrity, therefore nature does little in caries; in favourable cases the openings becoma* callous, and similar changes are produced in the bony substance, or granulations arii^ from the bonew'hich become connected with those from the soft parts but are rarely con- » verted into bone and form only misshapen masses, whilst in necrosis a more or less coms»i plete reproduction of the destroyed bone is effected. The course of necrosis is mostlyj tedious, but often also quick and connected with active inflammation, which is rarely i the case in caries. After opening the abscess, the pain in necrosis usually subsidet'^ whilst in caries it mostly increases (a). The notion that in caries the organic principle (bony gelatine) has entirely disap^^ peared, and instead of it a peculiar fatty matter produced which fills the cells of the4 carious bone, whilst in necrosis the formative principle remains unchanged and itsi respective relations, that is, as they are found in health, remain, (Delpech, Bkrabd^^ PouGET and others,) is not confirmed by Mouket’s experiments (6), as, according to him, i, the fatty matter in which every writer believed, is always found in recent caries, well di«-M tiuguished from rancid fat by its smell, which may serve as its characteristic; but all then bones he examined have a fibrous jelly-like substance, and contain a proportionatri quantity of saline substances, as in heaMy bone ; it is therefore impossible by the che-^j mical characters indicated to distinguish caries from necrosis. 872. Nature endeavours to separate a piece of dead bone, usually called'JI a sequester, from a healthy bone, by the process of absorption, which k at the line of connexion between the dead and the healthy bone, produces-^ a loss of substance (1). As long as the exfoliation goes on by absorption and J, granulation, the small fleshy wall surrounding the fistulous opening reraain8,N according to Dzondi’s observations, unchanged; but it shrivels as soon * as that process is completed, and the separated piece is thrown off externally, at the same time the previously very small round hole becomes irregularly \j enlarged. After this separation of the sequester, its expulsion is possible,'-! and usually happens without hindrance, excepting such as the soft jiartsti offer, if the dead piece belong to the external surface of a flat or tubularu bone. Compensation for the lost piece of bone is effected by nature in r various ways. If the necrosis extend only to the external layer of the* I bone, whilst the internal remains alive, which happens only in slight liU injuries from mechanical influence, abscess and the like, the piece of bone,? I if the periosteum and soft parts remain uninjured, is enclosed in bone newly > i formed by the periosteum and is separated within by the granulations formed' j from the living layer. The piece of bone exhibits a rough surface, pro- ■ i duced by absorption. If the periosteum and the soft parts be destroyed- { on the affected parts of the bone, and it is bared of soft parts, or entirely) t separated from them by blood, suppuration, and the like, the granulations r 1 arising from the compact bony mass can only effect imperfect compensa- < | tion, so that a depression or deficiency remains at the place of loss. Herer> > the piece of dead bone keeps its smooth surface and its whole thicknes.<. - » In every severe inflammatory irritation of the surface of the bone, there ~ 1 occurs a corresponding plastic activity in the medullary canal, and new bone > > is produced, which, opposite the point of greatest irritation, fills up thes medullary cavity. In internal necrosis, if the layer of bone concealed - i within the medullary canal die, the compensating substance is fonned fmni the periosteum, and becomes one with the external layer of the cortical ,■ substance, which remains healthy, excepting that the latter swells ami t (a) Richter, above cited, vol viii. pt. i. p. 128.—Dictionnaire de MMecine et Chirurj;ie Prit., .Vrtkle. OstitUe. (i) Revue M^icale, 1835.