516 MODE OF UNION OF this efFused blood has no share in producing union of the ends of the bone, as it becomes after a few days entirely' absorbed. Next there is a fluid poured out between the periosteum and the bone which separates the periosteum from the surface of the hone, for about an inch or an inch and a half beyond the place w'here the bone is frac-' tured. This fluid does not cause a laceration of the vessels of the periosteum, but rathei an elongation of them. Now here is the difference between the simple and the com- pound fracture; for, in the former, the fluid, after accumulating for a day or two,. becomes in a great measure taken up by the absorbents, and adhesive matter is pouredi out in its stead, but in the latter a suppurative process is established, and granulations arise from the broken surfaces. In these granulations cartilage becomes deposited, and< continues to be formed for some time ; the discharge of pus gradually diminishes, and< in compound fracture cartilage continues to be formed until about the twentieth day.i It is deposited between the internal surface of the periosteum and the external surfaced of the bone. At the place where the fractured ends are brought into contact, tho( periosteum becomes absorbed and cartilage is deposited between them, in which patches' of bony matter are formed, and these, when completed, are covered by an extension o'> the original periosteum. * * * * Under the granulations arising from the cancellatec-i structure cartilage is also found, and from the seventeenth to the twentieth day them are bony patches deposited in the cartilage. It is by the accumulation of these patchew that ossific union gradually takes place. A compound fracture is necessarily slower ii;i its progress towards recovery, from the causes just explained, than a simple fractureij and the union is frequently retarded by exfoliations of bone, which will often take uj a tedious time to separate,. and keep up considerable irritation. Three months may Wi considered a short time for the union of a compound fracture to take place; sometimeM the accident is not recovered from in nine months, and occasionally not even in twelve.'. (p. 644-46.) The following is the summary which Mieschee gives of his experiments on rabbitii to ascertain the processes under which suppurating fractures are united:— “ If the circumstances which occur in the progress of suppurating fractures be comr pared with those noticed in simple fractures, it will be seen that the mode and way o, cure is precisely the same in both. The soft parts swell, coalesce, and together form i capsule around the fracture, from the internal surface of which, and from the medulld. although from the latter, according to circumstances, not always, a new substance pro. ceeds, and when sprung from both, at length envelopes the several fragments untiet" together; whence it is self-evident that this is the same substance as that which I havn called intermediate. At a subsequent period, as seen in the fourth experiment, thiv substance produces a sort of fibro-cellulous membrane, easily separable from the othen soft parts, and comparable with the periosteum, which, in simple fractures, is presentee as the recent investing callus; this, therefore, is the only difference, that in the fracturw of which we are now speaking pus is formed, and the new substance at its commence? ment presents the appearance of granulations. The substance of the callus which fiUi up the medullary cavity is produced by simple exudation, as in simple fractures, anw no less are the first fruits of the external callus, by which the periosteum still adherer to the bone, produced by simple exudation; but so soon as the callus has stretche«i beyond that part, the rest is formed by the granulations growing with a secretion c pus. Why all these formations should proceed more slowly is easily understood, frojn the circumstances generically connected with suppurative inflammation. I “ However, there is this very great difference between the cure of simple and suppw rating fractures, that in the latter the ends of the fragments are bared, and that th i evolution of the later callus takes place ou them; but in the third and fourth experi- ments there could be no doubt that the bared parts of the bone were dead, because ver ^ decided marks of incipient exfoliation existed; and in the other experiments, the whiti colour of the bone showed the presence of necrosis. On the one side only would ther i be necrosis, if the other, as it seemed, had not been at first deprived of periosteum s but the entire extremity of the fracture would be involved if the periosteum had bee< torn from its whole circumference. If the medulla remained healthy to the edges c-1 the fracture, the necrosis would attack only the surface of tlie bone, but if the medalk > killed as it seemed by the violence of the inflammation, were destroyed tliroughout th I whole bone, so far as the medulla was dead the necrosis would be seen. The splintci i had arranged themselves; those which were entirely separated, were, as might b ■ expected, not contained in the callus, but, on the contrary, still adhered by one part to th periosteum, new bony substance proceeded from them, and that surface of them towarc ' the cavity filled with pus, was alone dead, just as the hared ends of the fragments. “ How the cure proceeded after the separation of the necrosis I am sorry I cannot fro> '