768 COMPOUND DISLOCATION. ' I disturbing tliem, for the first two or three days, to ascertain that the parts are in their tl proper place. I have known an instance in which a dislocated upper ann after having J been reduced and carefully bandaged up, was left undisturbed for some weeks, and on ^ the removal of the bandages was found to have slipped out, and could not be reduceilii again.—J. F. S.] 994. Tlie treatment in sprains is to be the same as for brui.ses. Cold 1 applications are to be employed, with careful rest of the joint, freneral and ! local blood-letting, proportionate to the bruising and inflammation, and .sub- - sequently, for the complete dispersion of tlie extravasated fluids, spirituous ^ and aromatic applications used. There often remains for a long while •* swelling, weakness of the joint, and, in old persons, a crackling in the r joint, which is removed by volatile rubbing, douche bath, and the like. i [The two great auxiliaries in reducing dislocations, are bleeding and nauseating ^ doses of tartar emetic. The bleeding should always be made in a large stream from ■: one or both arms, according to his apparent strength, and whilst the patient stands ' upright, till he feels faint, which is best determined by his bursting out into a cold, clammy, sweat, and unless carefully noticed he drops on the floor before the Surgeoffis v; aware. Immediately on the faintness occurring the extension should be made, the r bandages and pulleys having been previously adjusted, if thought necessaiy; and it should be made steadily and not by jerks. Frequently the excitement or the pain n* revives him, and it is then advisable to give him a grain of tartar emetic every ten n. minutes, so as to keep him in a state of nausea till the reduction is effected. If the r dislocation be of long standing it is well to reduee the patient’s strength by spare diet i- and purging for two or three days previous to the operation; and on the same morning to give him nauseating doses of tartar emetic for some hours prior to the extension, so ■, as to put him in the most favourable condition. And the French Surgeons are in the ■■ habit of applying poultices and other relaxing applications to a dislocated joint, for the ■■ purpose of rendering the parts more yielding some days before attempts at the reduction are made.—J. F. S.] 995. Dislocations accompanied with tearing of the soft parts covering the joint and thrusting out of the head of the hone, belong to those rare « but most dangerous cases, in which severe inflammations, weakening sup- puration, slough and nervous symptoms are to be dreaded. The dang^rj is greater as the bruising and tearing of the parts of tlie joint are more t' severe, the older the patient, and the more out of condition his constitution, i. According to these circumstances the necessity for amputation, or the t possibility of preserving the limb, must be determined. Amputation, liow- - ever, may subsequently become necessary from wasting suppuration, from i. sloughing, and the like. If the immediate removal of tlie limb be not - indicated, the head of the bone must be returned as soon as possible, and » with the least injury of the parts of the joint; the wound must be com- - pletely closed with sticking plaster; the limb surrounded with com- - presses and with Scultetos’s bandage, kept in proper position by the : application of splints, and the patient must be treated strictly antiphlogis-- tically, according to the state of his constitution. The wound often a heals by quick union and without any particular symptoms. If suppura- tion ensue, the cure often takes place with an emollient treatment; but i* generally, if it be copious, it is accompanied with severe pain and ner\ou3,' symptoms, and must be treated according to the rules laid down forf wounded joints (jjar. 559.) If gangrene come on, it requires the pro}ier . treatment. 996. If the reduction of the head of the bone, protrndeil through the soft parts, be in no way possible, even after proper enlargement of the wound in the skin, nothing remains, but to saw oft’ the protruding bone, by ' which the stretching and tearing of the muscles are relieved, and t e . joint can be brought to its natural position ; after which the symptoms, -