89 OF ABSCESS. the puncture, to introduce between the lips of the wound a very small portion of lint, with a long end hanging out: this is to be removed when the first poultice is replaced a few hours after making the puncture, which by that time is sufficiently established. J. F. S.] 56. Escharotics are employed in the following manner: a piece of linen spread with sticking plaster, and in which a properly shaped hole has been cut, is to be so laid upon the abscess that the aperture should cor- respond with the point where it is intended to be emptied. The hole in the plaister is then to be filled with bruised and moistened caustic, and covered witli sticking plaster. After six or eight hours the plaister is to be removed, if the caustic have produced a good slough, or the walls of the abscess have been eaten through and the pus escaped. The slough is to be pierced with a lancet and the abscess emptied, or, if the emptying does not seem urgent, the slough may be allowed to separate, and then the lancet is to be introduced. The pus is to be discharged by moderate pressure in an unbroken stream, the aperture to be covered with sticking plaster and a bandage applied. The walls of the abscess frequently at once imite, but most commonly a smaller quantity of pus collects, the emptying of which is to be performed by a second puncture, and the union furthered by a compressing bandage. 57. In passing a seton through an abscess an aperture with a lancet is to be made at its upper part, through which a blunt probe, armed with a bundle of several cotton threads some yards long is to be passed to the very bottom of the abscess, till its extremity is felt against the skin. An assistant retains the probe in this situation, and the skin being rendered tense, a cut is made upon the probe, which is then to be drawn out and the seton introduced into the cavity of the abscess. This may be done with a seton needle, in which case the parts covering the abscess are to be raised into a fold and then transfixed with the needle. When the abscess is emptied, the opening is to be covered with charpie and sticking plaster, the seton thread fastened,' the whole covered with a compress and sup- ported with a proper bandage. A fresh portion of the thread is to be drawn in daily. When the suppuration has diminished the threads are to be withdrawn and the union of the walls promoted by regulated pressure. In many cases the seton may be removed in three or four days, if the walls of the abscess have acquired a sufficient degree of inflammation to unite by proper pressure. 58. In general the opening of abscesses with a cutting instrument is most preferable. The application of escharotics is accompanied with great pain ; a part of the skin is always destroyed, in consequence of which a large scar remains. The seton is also painful and excites more or less severe inflarnmation. These modes of opening are therefore restricted to tliose cases in which it is desirable to excite a certain degree of inflam- mation, as will be presently mentioned in speaking of cold abscess. The employment of caustic in critical abscesses, in order to hasten and brinff about their opening at an earlier period, may be conveniently replaced by lancet*^^^^ poultices, and the ordinary method of opening with the