FRACTURES OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 551 I li tt liilst with the other liand tlie elbow is brought inwards and somewhat for- r wards; or the knee should be placed between the shoulder-blades, and the if shoulders drawn back with both hands. The apparatus for retaining the itbroken ends in their proper position, are (with the exception of the n inappropriate bandages) tlie spica Glaucii, (Galen,) the metraclavi- .tcularis, the figure-of-eiglit bandage, (Pare', Petit,) the spina humeri ^descendens, (Kluge, L. Kichter,) tlie cross of Heister, the bandages of fcliR.vsDOR, Evers, the straps of Brunninghausen, Wilhelm, and »Eberl (a), theapparatus of Desault and of Boyer, that of Brefeld (5), I of Eichheimer (c), KoppENSTiEDTER (rf), and Keckely (e). Rest ;!^upon the sound side in bed is to be recommended, in which the injured dside is to be supported with a pillow and the elbow, as far as possible, laid ijlbackwards on the body (_/'), or the fore-arm and elbow put in the horizontal »position, supported by means of a sling, and the arm fastened by a bandage Sto the body {g), as well also by connecting the elbows together behind ^he back. Crovelhier’s apparatus iji) is only a modification of Desault’s ; the same also is that of Laserre (i); of Flammant {K) ; and Delpech (Z). Earle, H. (wi), proposes for fracture of the collar-bone an arm-sling, for thejpurpose of more perfectly fixing the upper end, which is also applicable in fractures of the icromion and neck of the blade-bone. Amesbury (w) gives a modification of Earle’s pparatus. Richerand (o) puts the arm in a simple sling, so that the elbow is supported, and the arm kept against the trunk ; a simple compress is put in the arm-pit to absorb the perspiration and prevent excoriation. Wattmann (p) puts the hand upon the un- injured shoulder, fastens it with cloths, and puts a ring beneath the point of the elbow. Mayor (g) puts a triangular cloth beneath the under third of the upper-arm around the best; he then carries the depending triangular corner between the fore- arm and ireast, upwards, and the one end over the injured, and the other over the sound shoulder, and fastens them behind on the breast part of the cloth. Hobfuthal’s (r) apparatus may also be used. Renaud’s (s) apparatus for simultaneous fracture of both collar-bones. 640. The apparatus which draw back the shoulders (those of Heister, Brasdor, Evers, Brunninghausen, Wilhelm, and others) have this objection: that they do not preserve the setting, easily produce excoriations of the arm-pit, swelling of the arm, and often unendurable pain, especially if the straps be broad and not roundly padded. Keeping in bed is very » annoying to many patients. The apparatus of Desault and Boyer is fl therefore usually considered most preferable in this fracture. In the * former a pillow, three and a half inches thick at the base, gradually (1 thinning, and from five to six inches long, is applied with its base upwards, between the arm and the breast, and confined with a bandage. The elbow j[a) Kritische Bemerkungen uber die gegen- wartignoch nblichen Methoden der Schliisselbein- brucli zu heilen, nebst Angabe eines verbesserten , -^*^bandes; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvi. p 462. • o und sichere Methode, den Brucli der ocnlusselbeines zu heilen; in Rust’s Magazin, ^ vol. xxvii. p. 555. (c) In Grazfe und von Walther’s Journal, Tol. xiv. p. 533. (d) Ibid. ; (e) American Journal, 1836. No. 24, C/) I^lajani, Collezione d’Osservazione e Rif- ^4ll^ionl di Chirurgia. 4 vols. 8vo. Roma, 1803. t Larrey ; in Dictionnaire abrege des Sciences Medicales, vol. iv. p. 365. 1821. (^) J^^decine pratiaue eclairee par I'Anatomie (t) Dissert, sur la Lithotomie, etc. Paris, 1814. —Frohiep's Chirurg. Kiipfert., pi. ccxxvii. Journal Compl. du Dictionn. des Sciences Medicales, vol. xxxvi. (i) Gerdy, Traite des Bandages et Appareils de Pansement. 8vo. et Atlas, 4to. Paris, 1826. (m) Practical Observations on Surgerv. 8vo. London,1823. (n) Syllabus of Surgical Lectures on the nature and treatment of Fractures, &c. London, 1827. p. 66. (o) Histoire des Progres recens de la Chirurgie. Paris, 1825. p. 132. (^) Med. Jahrbucher des k. k. oststaates, vol. vi. I L''dV ® eclairee par I’Anatomie (g) Gazette Medicale, 1835, No. 15. ■ la Vliysiologie pathologiques,cah. i. Paris, 1821. fr) Rust’s Magazin, vol.xlix. part 1. (s) Bulletin des Sciences Medicales, 1811, Nov.