TREATMENT, 767 onmciatecl, flabby, and old persons, the consequences of the extension are more severe than the advantage of the reduction. In young muscular per- sons, tliree months may be considered as the longest space of time, at whicli the retluction of a dislocation should be attempted. If the patient be urgent for an attempt at reduction, he must be made aware of the circumstances alreadv mentioned, and the attempt must be made with caution, so that tlie muscles and nerves be not damaged. In old dislocations, a threefold obstruction may render it impossible :—1, union of the head of the bone witli the surrounding parts, so that even after death, when the muscles are cut through, the head of the bone cannot be returned ; 2, the socket may be filled up, in which case the head of the bone, even though reduced, cannot remain in its place; 3, if a new socket be formed in the bone upon which tlie head lies, so that without fracture it cannot be separated from it (A. Cooper.) (a). [The length of time after the accident, at which a bone may be reduced, varies con- siderably, and depends on the form of the joint and the patient’s muscular power. I am inclined to believe, however, they may sometimes be reduced at a longer period than two or three months, and that it is right to make the attempt, but the Surgeon should be pressed to the trial rather than press the patient. Of course the more simple the form of the joint, and the more shallow the socket, the easier is the reduction, hence ball- and socket-joints are more readily replaced than hinge-joints, and the shoulder than the hip. Professor Sbiith, of New Haven, U.S., reduced one dislocation of the shoulder at seven months, and another at ten and a half months. There is an excel- lent statistical account (6) of the practice of Ddpuytren in the Hotel-Dieu at Paris, in which the twenty-three cases successfully treated by him varied from between fifteen and eighty-two after the accident. Breschet (c) mentions a reduction of dislocated hip at seventy-eight days, and three of the shoulder at the eighty-second, ninetieth and ninety-eighth day respectively; and in the Memoires de 1’Academic Royale de Chirurgie ide Paris, vol. v. p. 529, is related a dislocation of the hip reduced after two years. —J. F. S.J 992. As the muscles mostly render difficult the reduction of dislocation, in many cases it can only be facilitated or rendered possible by diminish- ing their contractile power. This is effected by those remedies which have a disposition to produce faintness, or even fainting, as a smart blood- letting, (according to the state of the patient’s constitution,) a warm bath, nauseating doses of tartarized antimonial wine, tobacco clysters, drunken- ness, perhaps also opium {d), and by frightening (e), or diverting the patient’s attention. 993. After complete reduction the head of the bone has usually no par- ticular disposition to slip out again; this occurs only in violent motions of the joint, or when the dislocation depends on great weakness of the liga- ments or muscles. The limb should be brought into a position, in which the muscles are relaxed, and such bandages applied will prevent its motions, and it should be kept quiet. Cold applications are employed to prevent or get rid of inflammation. When the inflammatory symptoms have passed by, careful movement of the limb is to be made, for the prevention of stiffness of the joint, by the long-continued rest. [^metimes after the reduction has occupied much time, the muscles are so completely tired out and deprived of their tone, especially in persons of lax fibre, that they will not retain the head of the bone in its place, and consequently the mere weight of the limb wi reproduce the dislocation. For this reason, not merely are bandages applied immediately after the reduction, but the joint should be carefully examined without digkcit, veraltote Luxationen einzurichten; in ' V^v V 1 ? Paf’S. 1829- Hamburger Zeitsclirift, vol. ii. pt. iii. m.nkJl Luxationen vom Stand- (M Philadelphia Journal of Medicine. >«;trachtet. f cj Repertofre Generale. eimar, ly34.—Nkv£rmann, Uel)er die Nothwen- (d) Cooper, A., above cited. (e) Dupvytren ; in Ammon’s I’arallcle, p. 170.