TREATMENT BY STITCHING. 753 .itli mudi hardness, and especially, according to Dieffenbach, if it be 10- h up in the vagina, where the suture is inapplicable, and the neck of he womb participating in the burning, and thereby swelling, assists the nion. Sanson describes a peculiar apparatus for illuminating the vagina after the introduc- on of the specH/wK. _ DoPUVTREN has also a connecting catheter, projecting wings on both sides instead of ooks. Naegele’s and Laugier’s connecting forceps. 974. Sewing up the vesico-vaginal fistula, after having previously jfreshed its edges according to the proposal of Roonhuysen (a), as 11- actised by Fatio (5) and Voelter (c), but not since thought of, and in hich Naegele (c?) proposed different modes of proceeding, Schreger (e) illowed out successfully, has been frequently of late, and with various lodifications, performed, but rarely with success. Wutzer(/) has had le greatest success, (of eighteen operated on, three were radically cured ad the rest improved,) who, by the careful and precise detail of his oservations and trouble, accompanied with rare perseverance, has import- ntly contributed to perfecting the operation, and, by the addition of para- entesis vesiccs, in order more completely to draw off the urine, has Ivanced considerably farther than his predecessors. The performance F the operation for vesico-vaginal fistula is always difficult, and may be ven dangerous, from severe inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum. 'he difficulty of the operation is increased by the high situation of the stula and by the narrowness of the vagina; so also the improbability of s success is in large openings Avith thin edges, with the whites, with the rine not properly draAvn off, and in a bad constitutioned patient. If lere be adhesions of the vagina these must be first divided, and any icrustations in the vagina or bladder removed. If the patient still men- iruate, the operation must be undertaken two days after it has ceased, 'he intestinal canal must be cleansed by purging or clysters. According ') WuTZER, the opei’ation is only to be undertaken in fine Aveather. • 975. The patient should be placed on her belly upon a table covered Avith mattress, so that she may kneel near its edge, Avith her head and chest ent forAvards, and supported with small bolsters. The operator sits betAveen le patient’s thighs, upon a seat of proper height, so that his arms should ot soon tire. To Aviden the vagina and render it sufficiently open, a find hook should be introduced into it, and the perinceum raised Avith it, by \ assistant. The lahia, together Avith the sides of the vagina, are to be raAvn outwards by other assistants, standing on either side, either with the ngers alone properly applied, or Avith slightly bent hooks. The position of the patient on her belly is much preferable to that on the back, (as in e operation for the stone,) which has been recommended by most persons, as the per- Traance of the operation is rendered considerably easier, although for the patient it is ore irksome than on the back. The widening of the vagina with a speculum in the fiy proposed, is also preferable. (Wutzer.) 976. According to Wutzer’s method for refreshing the edges of the xtula, the most conveniently situated part should be seized Avith a long- Heebkon.stige Anmerkingen. Amst. IfifiS. H^6) Ilulvetisch-vemunftigc Wfhmutter, Basle, i^c) Ncueeroffnetellebammenscliule. Stutt.1722. \.d) Krfahrungen und Abhandlungen aus dem •bieU* der Krankhcitcii des weibl. Geschlectes. imnheim, 1812, p. 869, vol. i. ii. ^ VOL. I. {e) Annalen des chirurg. Klinikums aiif der Universitut zu Erlangen. Erlangen, 1817, p.78. (/’) Ueberdie Heilungder Blasenschiedenfistel; in Organon Hir die gesammt Ileilkunde, vol. ii. pt. iv. — F. BDttoenbach, Dissert, de variis llstulnc vesico-vaginalis operand! mcthodis. Bonn., 1841. 3 c