613 DIVISION. '1 KrsT, J. N., Ilelkologie, oder iiber die Natur, Erkenntnise nnd Heilung der ijeschw’iire. Wien, 1811. 2 vol. Second Edit.; with copper plates, fol. Berlin, 1838. I Knsr, J. N., Einigc Bemerkungen iiber das Wesen der Geschwiire. Ein Beitrag !ur Bearbeitung der Helkologie; in lus Magazin fur die gesammte Heilkuude, vol. xii. 3t. iii. p. 512. Bust, C., De Ulcerum diagnosi et sctiologia nonnulla; cum tab. vii. col. Berol., ^iS31. 4to. I Bluff, M. J., Helkologie, Lehre von Erkenntniss und Behandlung der Geschwiire. ;3erlin, 1832. 8vo. Hunter, John, Lectures on Surgery. Palmer’s Edition. Vol. i, )| 746. An Ulcer (Ulcus, Helcoma, Lat.; Geschwur, Germ.; Ulcere, *Fr.) is a long existing division of organic parts depending on irregu- ^.arity of the vegetative processes, and accompanied with the secretion of 5 in ichorous and sanious fluid, and a continuing destruction of the parts in t,vhich it is situated. Ulcers are therefore distinguished from abscesses and mppurating wounds, but may originate from them, if by a change of vitality n the suppurating surfaces the process of regeneration be converted into dceration or ulcerative absorption. 747. The causes of ulcers are either internal or external. The former consists in a peculiar deviation of the whole organism, or of single organs, Tom the natural type, with a great degree of weakness and flabbiness, or J .vith those diseases, of which the ground depends on some change in the ^assimilation, for instance, acute and chronic eruptions of the skin, scro- , ilia, syphilis, gout, scurvy, dropsy, suppression of the usual discharges, it md the like. These diseases, either of themselves, or after the operation of •X in occasional cause, produce an ulcer. The external causes are all in- lines which, producing inflammation and suppuration, break up the con- C^iexion of parts ; wounds, abscesses, the healing of which is prevented by x^in existing disease, or by improper treatment; specific diseased matter ofiperating locally, and the like. -ill 748. Ulcers are divided into simple and complicated. Simple ulcers iMire those which are connected neither with peculiar local nor general ■nilis^e, but depending only on the decided destruction of connexion divhich accompanies them, according to the condition already stated {par. (|( 46.) Complicated ulcers are, on the contrary, those connected with pecu- >I|iar lo^l or general disease. In regard to local complication, there may >.aie distinguishedcallous, oedematous, varicose, fungous, sloughy, .^ind carious ulcers; further, ulcers, with a secretion of thin, lardy, acrid, 'i| tinking, saline, and variously coloured matter. General complications ‘ij;onsist in the presence of the diseases' and dyscrasies above mentioned fpar. ’T47) ; hence are distinguished atonic, scorbutic, scrofulous, arthritic, V\jyphilitic, carcinomatous, and impetiginous ulcers. From what has been said it results that ulcers may be local and general ailments. It »1s, however, to be herewith remarked, that ulcers which at first depend on a decided )ntemal cause, often previous to healing, become merely local; and so, on the contrary, ' which at first were actually local, in their course draw the whole body into’ participation, and may become complicated ulcers. I 749. The reaction of ulcers upon the whole organism varies according ;'0 their nature. In specific ulcers the general indisposition is increased by ■' he absorption of the pus secreted in the ulcers, and tainted with the spe- nnc poison. In ulcers in which the secretion of pus especially is very ;reat, and of a bad kind, there arises a general weakness, partly from the