628 HERPETIC duced. Sulphur, sublimate, red and white precipitate, alkalies, and tin i like especially may be used as ointments, solutions, and baths. If the skin be completely degenerated, the application of caustic, and the entire de I struction of the diseased part of the skin is often necessary. In this treat* ment attention must be paid to cleanliness and suitable diet, each of th above-described ailments must be diminished, and a derivation kept up b' issues, setons, and so on. A.-OF HERPETIC ULCERS. Roussel, H. F. A., Dissert, de variis herpetum speciebus, causis, symptomatibu! Cadom., 1779. 8vo.; in Schlegel’s Thesaurus path, therapeut., vol. ii. p. i. PouPAKT, Traite des Dartres, 1782. 12mo. Conrad, J., Zusatze zu Poupart’s Abhandlung von den Flechten. Strasburg, 178;' MijHLENPFORT, Dissert. de Ulceribus esthiomenis eorumque methodo meden'" rationali. Kilon, 1795. Hensler, P. G., De herpete seu formic^ veterum labis venerece non prorsus expert* Kilon, 1801. 8vo. Tilesius, W. G., Theorie der flechtenartigen Ausschlage. Ein Versuchzur naberoi Bestimmung der chronischen Hautkrankheiten. Leipzig, 1802. 8vo. Altbert, Description des Maladies de la Peau observdes k I’Hopital Saint Louis, cv expositions des meilleures methodes suivies pour leur Traitement. Paris, fol. thir ' book. Rater, P., Traite thfiorique et pratique des Maladies de la Peau, &c., 2 vols. Pari i 1826-27. 8vo. Ib., Translated into English by R. Willis, M.D. London, 1835. . ScHiES, L., Dissert, de Lupo. Halae, 1831. The Works of Bateman, Schedel and Cazenave, on Diseases of the Skin. 787. Herpetic Ulcers (^Ulcera herpetica, Lat.; flechtenartigen Gi schwiiren, Germ.) are characterized by the following appearancesa first there is perceived on some part of the skin, inflammation or littl bladders, whence are produced crusts or scabs which subsequently eithe scale off like bran, or fall off in larger pieces, and expose an inflamee patch of the skin, from whence exudes a fluid of peculiar smell and colour which drying, fresh crusts are produced, and these again fall off. Thes' ulcerations generally do not penetrate deeply, but readily spread on th surface, and are usually accompanied with much burning and itching. If the herpes spread over a large surface of the body, the perspiratio is diminished, the nourishment is disturbed, the action of the bowe • stopped, and at last hardening of the bowels, hectic fever, swelling of th feet and so on are produced. 788. Herpes (^Lichen, Serpigo, Lat.; Flechte, Germ.) is divided, a( cording to its form, into Herpes furfur acens, crustaceus, squamosus, pu- tulosus, phlyctcenoides, erythemoides, according as at the onset it is cor iiected with bran-like scales, crusts, pustules, blisters, or inflammation. 1 is called eating herpes {^Herpes exedens, rodens, phagadanicus, Lupu. Lat.; fressende Flechte, Germ.) when the ulceration (generally situate on the tip of the nose, on the cheeks and lips) spreads quickly; in th case the parts are eaten away and often considerably destroyed by an acn fluid beneath a thick scab, or where thick brown or blackish scabs ai formed upon roundish sores with bluish edges, dirty colour, and su rounding swelling, which enlarge and eat away the parts without secretic of ichor, as it were by dissolving them. When a pustulous eruption ni to a hard scab upon the hairy part of the chin and cheeks it is ca t