582 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES splint is fixed upon this pad with a circular bandage, so that its lower end may project from four to five inches beyond the sole of the foot. With a . second roller tlie foot is drawn inwards towards the shin, the bandage being turned like a OO around the sliin, foot, and ankle-joint (a). This ^ apparatus, however, has the objection that it frequently becomes displaced or presses too tightly. In five or six weeks the fracture is consolidated! In fracture connected with dislocation of the foot, tlie splint-bone must* after reduction of the dislocation, be kept in place by the prescribed -i apparatus, and by a general and local treatment according to circum- stances, to which often very important symptoms are opposed. 704. Fracture of both bones of the leg {Fractura Cruris, Lat; Bruch der beiden Knochen des Unterschenkels, Germ. ; Fracture des . deux Os de la Jambe, Fr.) is either transverse or oblique, and maybe - either in the middle, upper, or lower third. The diagnosis is always > easy. The displacement of the broken ends, according to the length of i the limb, is more rare, than that according to its straight direction and circumference; but, in oblique fractures, the leg is always shortened, the • lower end turned outwards and backwards, the upper inwards and back-.. wards. Only when the fracture is near the top of the leg, is the upper fractured end drawn much upwards and backwards by the operation of the . bending muscles. Very frequently, particularly in oblique fractures, the ;• broken ends protrude through the skin. 705. The treatment varies as the fracture is transverse, oblique, in the neighbourhood of the knee-joint, or connected with injuries of the soft *' parts. 706. In Simple transverse Fracture the setting is always easy. One assistant holds the limb above the knee, and another at the heel and instep ; slight extension is generally sufficient to bring the broken ends ’ into place. As they have little disposition to displacement, the simple ■ contentive apparatus is sufficient. Two moistened square compresses are • to be put upon the leg, and to surround two-thirds of it; it is then to be swathed, from below upwards, with Scultetus’s bandage, wooden splints, three fingers wide, are to be applied on both sides, which should reach beyond the knee and ankle-joints, in a sufficiently large piece of ■ linen, and they should be two fingers distant from the leg. This space is to be filled with chaff pads, a smaller pad and splint are to be put on the front of the leg, which should reach from the tubercle of the shin-bone to the ankle, and the splints are to be fastened with three double bands, of which that on the seat of fracture should be first tied. A compress is to be put on the sole of the foot, and crossed on the instep, and by its ends attached to the apparatus. The leg should so rest on a chaff pad, that it may easily be bent at the knee-joint; and care should be taken that the heel lie in a proper hollow. At first the apparatus should be moistened from time to time with a dispersing lotion, and renewed every six or eight days. On the fortieth or fiftieth day the consolidation is perfected, when the leg may be enveloped in a circular roller. 707. The oblique Fracture of the leg is also generally set with e^v though the mere contentive apparatus is not sufficient to keep the broken ends in proper place, as tliey have not any opposite support, and are, (a) Dupuvtren, Mrmoircsiir la Fracture del’ex- chirurgical des Hopitaux et Hoyi^ tremite inferieure dn Perone, les luxations et les Paris, 1819. 4to.—E^ons Orales de c uniq accidensqui en sent la suite; in Annuaire medico- rurgicale, vol. i. p. 189.