409 SYMPTOMS—DIAGNOSIS. [(\) « The state of the pulse,” says Astlf.y Cooper, »is curious, although, when the patient is undisturbed, it is natural; it scarcely ever fails to be quickened if patient is capable of making any effort to rise, and exerts himself for that purpose. The cai otid arteries sometimes beat, under an exertion, with a force disproportionate to the other arteries of the body; but generally this symptom is not observed until after a few hours, (p. 254.) Not only is the pulse excited by the patient’s efl'ort to rise, but even the mere shaking him to arouse him will often produce quickening of the pulse, as I have seen again and again.—j. F. s. . j • j (2) Many curious instances are recorded of the loss of memory in regard to an acquired language, and the re-employment of the vernacular tongue of the patient, following con- cussion. Astley Cooper mentions the case “ of a man who, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, was found talking in a language which was not understood, until a Welshwoinan enter- ing the ward, heard him talking Welsh; the blow on his head having occasioned the loss of his recollection of English. I once witnessed a very similar circumstance:—I attended a German sugar-baker, with disease in his brain, and when I first saw him, he could speak to me in English ; but as his disease increased he lost his English, and I was obliged to have an interpreter, for he could answer only in his native tongue.” (p. 255.) Sometimes the patient forms a new language for himself, as in Larrey’s case (a) of the soldier wounded in the head, who expressed assent by the word “ baba,” instead of “ oui,” dissent by *• lala,” and his wants by “ dada,” and “ tata.” In other cases of irritation of the brain, language appears to have been entirely lost, and the patient to have made his necessities known by manual signs, as in Cline’s case. (p. 418.) Hennen observes;—“ The powers of speech are often lost, while those of memory remain, and the sight is impaired while the hearing is perfect, and vice versd. I have met with numerous instances of this, and have had patients who told me that they could hear distinctly what I said, and distinguish my voice from that of others, and have re- peated my words, as a proof both of this fact and of their retention of memory, while they could not distinguish my person, nor give utterance to their thoughts.” (p. 305.) He also mentions a very remarkable instance, after compound fracture with depression of the skull from gun-shot, in which, though the patient continued sensible, lie lost the power of utterance, and, although his efforts to speak were continuous, only on the sixth day did he manage to “ utter audibly, though with much labour, the monosyllable ‘ ther,’ to which in the course of the day he added, ‘ o;’ and for the three next days, whenever addressed, he slowly, distinctly, and in most pathetic tone, repeated the words, ‘ o ; ther: 0 ; ther;’ as if to prove his powers of pronunciation. His general appearance, during all this time amended considerably, and my hopes now began to revive. I therefore resolved to ivrite to his family, and before doing so, I printed in large characters on a sheet of paper the following words, ‘ Shall I write to your mother ?’ that being the wish which it appeared to me he, so long and ardently laboured to utter. It is impossible to describe the illumination of his countenance on reading these talismanic Avords; he grasped and pressed my hand with warmth, burst into tears, and gave every demonstration of having obtained the boon which he had endeavoured to solicit.” (p. 308.) The recital of this interesting case is an ample proof of the kindness of Hennen’s heart, and of the sincerity with which he inculcated the propriety of “ tenderness and sympathising manner” in the conduct of Surgeons towards their patients. (3) To the symptoms above enumerated Astley Cooper adds:—“ At first a torpor exists in the intestinal canal, and a considerable difficulty in procuring an evacuation • but afterwards the fasces are involuntarily discharged: in a few hours the bladder is distended from the accumulation of urine, which demands the introduction of a catheter for its removal; but after some time the urine also passes involuntarily.” (p. 254.)] 421. The following circumstances distinguish concussion from pressure of the brain, depending on extravasation of blood: the earlier or later oc- currence of symptoms in extravasation depends indeed on the quantity of blood and the quickness with which it is poured out; but the symptoms once set in increase or continue in the same degree. In concussion which immediately follows external violence the patient usually recovers himself in some degree. In extravasation he lies in an apoplectic state with snoring difficult breathing, hard irregular intermitting pulse; with wide pupils, but tligre is not any vomiting. In concussion the body is cold, tlie breathing easy, the pulse regular and small; the countenance little (a) Memoires, vol. iii. p. 322.