279 SYMPTOMS. Suddenly the tumour disappeared, and the patient has been led to entertain hopes of a sjKH;dy recovery. But these have Iieeu soon disappointed, in consequence of the discovery of a large collection of matter in the posterior part of the limb, behind the little tro- chanter of the thigh. In a case of this kind, in which I had the opportunity of exam- ining the morbid appearances after death, 1 found that the abscess had taken the course of the common tendon of tlie rn. psoas magnus and iliacus intornus, to their insertion into the little trochanter, afterwards extending further backward, over the inferior edges of the m. (juadratus femoris.” (pp. 2G0, 61.) (3) “ The pain,” says Brodie, “ at first trifling, but afterwards more severe, is ag- gravated by any sudden motion of the spine; by percussion, or by a jar communicated to it in any other way; as by stamping on the ground, striking the foot accidentally against a stone, sneezing or coughing. In the advanced stage of the disease the pain is sometimes so severe, and so easily induced that the patient cannot bear the slightest movement. Yet in other cases there is sometimes no pain whatever in the spine, from the first access of the disease to its termination of which he mentions one remarkable case, “ in which, judging from the degree of distortion, I was,” says he, ‘‘ satisfied that the bodies of not fewer than four or five of the dorsal vertebra; must have been destroyed, and that the disease had been going on for several years ; yet he had never been known to complain of pain; and the first circumstance which attracted the attention of the parents was the angular projection of the spinous processes. This patient ultimately died; and, on examing the body after death, a large abscess was discovered lying on the surface of the carious vertebra. In another case, in which the disease was supposed to have been cured, and the patient had not experienced pain for the two or three pre- ceding years, on examining the appearances after death, I found the bodies of the ver- tebra still in a state of caries, and an abscess, containing not less than half-a-pint of matter, connected with them.” (p. 250.) (4) “ When the spine is incurvated forwards,” observes Brodie, “ in consequence of the destruction of the bodies of the dorsal vertebra, the angular projection behind is more distinct than it ever is where the disease has attacked the vertehrm of the neck or loins. This is to be attributed to the greater length of the spinous processes in this part of the spine, and to the circumstance of their being, in the ordinary position of the parts, in- clined more or less downwards. When the curvature is considerable the thorax becomes at the same time altered in figure. The diameter of the thorax, from above downwards, is rendered shorter, while the other diameters are increased ; so that, while the figure of the chest is altered, there is but little difference in its actual capacity.” (p. 257.)] 258. On examination after death, one or several of the bodies of the vertebra are found destroyed by caries ; the neighbouring vertebra are eaten away and crushed together in front, so that the spinous processes pro- ject. A sac is formed of the apparatus ligamentorum anticics, cellular tissue, and so on, at tlie part Avhere the vertebra are destroyed, tvhich contains a purulent cheesy mass, and from which openings lead into the external ab- scesses ; in these sacs loose pieces of bone often lie. The bones are often converted into a spongy mass, which yields to the knife. Sometimes the interarticular cartilages especially are attacked, loosened up, and de- stroyed. Circumscribed deep holes are often found in the bodies of the vertebra, filled with cheesy matter, and which I hold, with Delpech and others, to be tubercles (1). The area of the spinal canal is generally un- diminished ; sometimes, however, it is so, and there are traces of chronic inflammation, redness, thickening or softening of the spinal marrow of its membranes, and of the nerves passing through them. ^ These examinations sliorv that the disease occurs sometimes as a primary affection of the cartilages and ligaments, sometimes as a primary affection of the spongy substance of the bones themselves. (1) Nicuet (a) has endeavoured to prove this view of the disease by numerous exa- minations. On the other hand, J;eger (6) believes that these supposed tubercles are merely tlie modification of pus in the bony cells and beneath the periosteum, or inflamed and suppurating lymphatic glands on the spinal column. (n) Gazette Medicale, 1835, Nos. 34, 35. (6) Ilandworterbuch, vol. i. p. 572.