CONTENTS OF WOUNDED INTESTINES. 473 535. Tlie symptoms produced by such effusion are, high fever, dryness of the tongue and throat, unquenchable thirst, distension and painfulness of the belly, convulsive twitchings, hiccough, vomiting, anxiety, and so on ; the inflammation thereby excited passes quickly into gangrene. These symptoms generally come on the day after the accident. . , n 536. Etf'usioii of blood into the cavity of the belly takes place either from a wounded epigastric or internal mammary artery, if the state of the wound prevent the free external escape of the blood, or from the arteries and veins within the belly. Blood from tiie cavity of the belly often seems to be driven, by the pressure of its walls, through the wound into the intestine, at least there is often observed a decided discharge of blood from the rectum, which cannot arise from the vessels of the gut alone. The blood collects, accordino- to the different size of the injury and of the vessel, in larger or smaller quantity, more quickly or more slowly. The symptoms of eflusion of blood into the belly are, therefore, very different, and, in general, depend on the loss of blood, on the pressure of the blood upon the intestines, and the irritation thereby excited. The patient gradually becomes weaker and weaker; in proportion as the effusion increases, the belly swells at the lower and fore part, or upon one side or other, and fluctuation is felt. From the pressure of the blood on the urinary bladder there is frequent desire to make water, the countenance of the patient is pale, the pulse small, the limbs become cold, and frequent swoonings occur. If the bleeding cease, these symptoms disappear, but recur when it returns. If the blood be poured out slowly, or in small quantity, the symptoms are less marked. 537. The blood effused in the cavity of the belly collects either in a circumscribed space, between the surface of the intestines and the front wall of the belly, mostly in a single mass, on one side or other of the white line ; or at different parts at the same time; or it is diffused and spread in all directions, and between the windings of the intestines. The causes of this variety of relations of the blood effused in the cavity of the belly de- pends partly on the quantity, on the origin, and quickness of the effusion (copious and quickly produced effusions and tliose from the veins are more diffused); partly on the changed relations of the tone of the intestines and walls of the belly, from other circumstances, as, for instance, the simultaneous escape of air into the cavity; partly on the violent movements of the patient, partly on the original seat of the inflammation. In diffused and extensive effusion, death ensues either from bleeding or from severe extensive inflammation. In circumscribed extravasation, plastic exudation occurs from inflammation around the mass of blood, by which it is cut off from the rest of the cavity of the belly. The fluid parts of the blood are absorbed; the solid parts may continue a long while, and at last disappear by absorption. If the extravasated mass be larger and not removed by absorption, it gradually softens in the middle, and becomes, the seat of a fetid fermentation; the swelling formed by the extravasation becomes larger, and fluctuates; pain, tension, fever, vomiting, and so on, arise. Upon the different opinions, in reference to the circumscription of blood effused in the ravity of the belly, (J. L. Petit, Bell, Fourcade,) and its extension, (Garengeot Desoer,) compare also Jobert. ’ 538. If extravasation appear after a wound has been received, the patient must be laid upon the injured side, and the wound kept open, a wad of half-torn linen being introduced into the lower angle of the wound so as to effect the escape of the blood. If extravasation occur after the