QUESTION OF IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION 518 count of the severity of the injury, if the bone be broken into many pieces, ilii ihe muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and important vessels be injur^r the joint-ends of the bone split, and the ligaments of the joint destroyedi, so that mortification may be predicted with certainty ; 2, for mortijicu tion ; and, 3, because of profuse suppuration, which exhausts the power; i of the patient. f Of the three conditions, mentioned by CnELms, under ■which amputation is necessap* in Compound Fracture, it must be remembered that although the decision on all require* great attention and practical experience, yet the first is most important, as it involve, the_ question of immediate amputation, a point upon which Surgeons do not agree, bu which is of the utmost importance to the patient. To prove the fact of this diiierenai of opinion I quote the opinions of the two first Surgeons of our time, Astley (Joopeb and John Abernethy, at whose feet the greater number of English Surgeons of twentj' years’ practice have had the privilege to sit, and whose opinions, as the most distinguish^ disciples of the school of John Hunter, have largely contributed to the formation of.' and still continue more or less to influence the practice of Surgery throughout Grea* Britain. Astley Cooper, after enumerating the various conditions of compound fractntt; which require amputation, says:—“ If it will be necessary to amputate in a few dayi; after the accident, then the sooner it is done the better. If you amputate at one hou)i after the accident, the patient will do better than if you leave it twelve hours. For thrs reason; if you amputate immediately, the constitution has but one shock to sustain, aw; in general rallies much better than when the amputation' is delayed; but if you leavu it eight or twelve hours there is a great degree of irritation previously setup. Tl»i loss of blood is rather a favourable circumstance than otherwise to precede the operation i The persons in whom these operations succeed the least are such as are loaded witii adipose matter; if you leave the limb, the constitutional irritation runs so high that r generally destroys life, and if you amputate they frequently die in twenty-four honi* after the operation from the constitution being unable to bear the shock which tha\ operation produces.” (p. 680.) Abernethy was decidedly averse to immediate amputation, and was accustomed ti state his opinion on this point, in his own peculiar manner (a):—“ If there is mud injury, sloughing will come on, and we must then consider whether the patient can hav»' his limbs saved, or whether amputation is required. And then we are in an awkward; predicament; but I have no fear that Surgeons will be in a hurry to cut off limbs; thej recollect that people will talk of it, and say, “ I wish had been imder my SurgeW' he would have saved, or at least endeavoured to save his limb,” so that self-interest wil make Surgeons attentive as possible to preserve limbs. In Surgery we must do as wci would be done by, and then we shall be acquitted at the grand tribunal. I should U very shy of amputating, because I have seen many cases which, though it was sail:; they would not do well, recovered. Ask the old Surgeons, men who have seen much o hospital practice, and they will tell you that what I say is the case. I hold that if theni is not much likelihood to inflammation or slough, we ought to give the patient a chanci for the salvation of his limb. We have no warrant for lopping oflf parts of another person’s body but for the preservation of the remainder, of the whole. * * * I an J averse to sudden amputations, for there is a shock already imparted to the constitutioni by the accident, and another is given to it by the operation, and they often die of tbt' amputation itself; but even if not, at any rate we have a tremendous story, the muscle; retract, the bone sticks out and exfoliates, and the case is a discredit to you. Then; have been numbers of cases of compound fracture since I have been in this (St. Bar. tholomew’s) Hospital, but they have all done well, except where amputation has beei s performed, not a single case had a good stump, and many died. Two men, however, whi had their limbs broken did well. * * * It appears that in amputations tiiose below th< knee do worst, those in the thigh do better, and those of the arm best. Indeed I havi no objection to amputating a lacerated hand or crushed elbow.” _ _ Such being the views of our most celebrated Surgeons, it must be allowed that it is w easy matter to lay down rules upon the important question under consideration, whicl cannot, on account of the improvement in the dietetic part of the practice of Snidery if it may be so called, and to which, (although a most important part of tlie treatment, till within the last few years, comparatively little attention had been paid, accord entirel. with either teacher. (a) MS. Lecturei on Surgery.