746 PERINiEAL FISTULA; the sides of tlie catheter, and collecting in it, the fistula must be opened'! > with a bistoury upon a director introduced into it and conncKited with then groove of a staff passed into the bladder, so that the wound has a funnel- ^ , like shape, and its point corresponding with the internal opening of the ; fistula. If there be several fistulous passages, each must be divided with < the director and bistoury. If the internal fistulous opening be very v , callous, it may be scarified, or touched with tinct. lytta;. The wound ! ' may be either gently filled witli lint, fastened with sticking-plaster,*! and a T bandage, or merely covered with a sponge soaked in wann u water. The wound fills from the bottom by granulations, the scarrino' of I ■which may be promoted by touching with lunar caustic. [The continued in-lying of a gum elastic or silver catheter in the urethra, after the ;• complete dilatation of the stricture has been effected, does not always lead to the healing * perinceal fistula, for however completely emptied the bladder may be kept, a little urine ■*. / will always flow by the side of the catheter, and dribbling through the fistulous passage, i i' keep it open. But another circumstance also takes place, more especially 1 tliifiE f i ■ have remarked it, wheu a silver catheter has been kept in, and which, as Brodie has w well observed, depends on “ the catheter acting like a seton, inducing inflammation and 4i i suppuration of the mucous membrane of the bladder; and some of the pus which is 4 j secreted passes through the fistula and keeps it open just as much as it would keep open i f by the urine itself In some cases,” he continues, “ I have adopted the following method: I v I have made the patient draw off the water with a catheter three times a day, so that be « .) should never make water except through the catheter, and thus that the urine should be <<.i altogether prevented from finding its way into the fistula. This is a better mode of J.-. treatment tliau the constant retention of a gum catheter in the bladder; and yet it will J.t sometimes fail.” (p. 488.) In cases where a perinteal fistula is slow in healing, Brodie says, he has ■with some k . success, “ endeavoured to stimulate the bottom of the fistula, so as to make that heal, -1 whilst he took measures to prevent the orifice from healing prematurely. This was u ■ effected in the following manner: he melted a little nitrate of silver in a spoon of plafia^- ^. and dipped the end of a probe in it; which being repeated two or three times, tlie end : 1 of the probe became covered with a varnish of caustic. Thus prepared, he introduced the ^! probe quite to the other end of the fistula; and when he had done this, just touched the i<] orifice of the fistula very slightly with the caustic potash. The effect of nitrate of y silver upon a sore surface is not so much to make a slough as to stimulate it to contract, ^ . granulate, and heal, whereas the effect of caustic potash is, to make a slough and prevent healing.” (p. 488.) Upon the question, if a fistula exist in the perinaum, attended with some little con- j: traction of the urethra, not giving the patient much inconvenience, so that it may not y much attract his attention, “ Are you to allow him to remain thus because the fistuU is . not very troublesome ?” Brodie gives for answer, “ Certainly not; for you do not know >■ j to what mischief it may ultimately lead. The matter on some occasions may not ^ readily escape ; it may burrow and cause sinuses in other directions, and may even do y still greater mischief. Mr. Vincent and myself attended a gentleman -who had suffered under tx fistula in perinceo, and which he had neglected for a great many years. At last ? he observed the callosity around it grew bigger and bigger, so that it ultimately «- ■, tended to the scrotum and penis. When we were called to see him we found him with ]«. a malignant disease, either carcinoma or Jtingus hamatodes, which had clearly had its ' origin in the fistula, and had extended from that to the neighbouring organs. The patient ultimately died in great distress and misery.” (p. 489.)] , 966. If the narrowing of the urethra be such, that it cannot be got rid 1 of in a space of time in which, by the reaction of the fistula upon the J ■ whole constitution, life is to be feared for, there remains nothing else than to introduce a staff into the urethra., dowm to the seat of stricture, which is to be held by an assistant. A director is then passed through the fistula 1 • into the internal opening, and the fistulous passage divided on it to the 1 stricture, and this tow'ards the staff But if the fistula do not lead to the i stricture, all the soft parts in the direction of the point of the staff must 1 ; be cut into, and the staff thrust forwards into the bladder, info which an 1