592 UNNATURAL JOINTS TREATED UY SAWING OFF. i the leg, in which seton and pressure had been used in vain, cut upon the shin-bone f removed the half ligamentous and cartilaginous mass with which the ends of the tx»e » were united, scraped both broken surfaces, and filled the wound up with lint ThU ' J was left for three or four days in order to fill the wound with granulations, and then ^ pressure was employed to keep the fractured ends in firm and close contact. I (1) In a case of section of an artificial joint in the upper arm in a young scrofuloni • man I found the ends of the fracture still quite movable, but complete consolidation ensued two montlis after under the continued use of the apparatus. [According to Guido de Cauliaco (a), the Arabian physicians recommended cutting down on the fractured part and getting rid of the callus either by rubbing or scrapint ' “ Verum si multum infestitur et aliter fieri non'potest, consulet Avicenna incidatur c^ t et atrosboth (callus) fricando separetur. Si fuerit attritio et timetur membri corruptio, t scarpelletur.” (p. 45.) This appears, however, from Avicenna’s account to have a very severe and not unfrequently fatal operation. The operation of sawing off the broken ends of the bone seems to have been first pro- ' posed and successfully practised by Charles White (ft), in 1760, on the upper arm of a ' boy, nine years old, which had been fractured six months. In his second case, which wag j a fractured shin-bone, he could only saw off the upper end, behind which the lower had so i fallen that it could merely be scraped, and it was found necessary to introduce butyr of . antimony, to destroy some muscular fibres between the fractured ends. Both cases did well. This operation has been repeatedly performed, but with very variable success. I ! think it is only applicable to the upper arm and leg where the bones are not very thickly i covered with muscles; but not in the thigh or fore-arm. Lawrence’s observations (c) on ) the subject are well worthy of attention. “ If the operation be in the fleshy part of the , thigh, it must be a very difficult thing to accomplish : you have to inflict a very severe wound, a wound very likely to be followed by considerable inflammation, and that with a ' still more serious effect. In many instances in which this has been done the jjatient :' has at least been left in a worse situation than he was in before.” (p. 265.) My friend Green’s operation on an imunited fracture of the thigh-bone, detailed by Amesbuet (d), ; fully proves the difficulty to which Lawrence refers. “ A semicircular incision was commenced about the middle of the rectus and then carried round through the belly of the vastus externus. The flap was dissected back and the fractured end of the [ upper portion of the bone brought into view. Upon clearing away the muscles it was ; seen that the two broken extremities of the bone were connected together by a thick .' dense capsule, resembling the capsule of the hip-joint, the inner surfaces of which were perfectly smooth and shining. The integi’ity of this capsule was destroyed, by re- moving a portion of it from the upper fragment; but in consequence of the difficulty I which was experienced in getting at the fractured end of the lower portion, which, as ' has been said, lay on the inner side of the upper, it was left covered with the ligament- ous matter. In removing about half an inch of the fractured end of the upper frag- ment, which was done by one of Key’s saws, in order to give room, it was found that the bone had become soft and spongy at this part, apparently from interstitial absorp- tion. From the manner in which the ends of the bone lay, it was evident that the lower portion could not be cleared of the ligamentous deposit which covered it, without : enlarging the wound in the soft parts, a proceeding which appeared objectionable.” . (pp. 821, 22.) The greater part of the wound soon healed without any constitutional excitement, but there was suppuration, and the matter burrowing, an absces was formed at the upper inner part of the thigh, which was punctured. He was imme- diately placed on a fracture-bed with inclined planes and no splint applied till the tenth day, when one well padded was put upon the outside of the thigh, and worn for seven weeks, but no union was effected. An inner splint was then also applied and the fractured ends pressed tightly together by the web of a tourniquet twisted closely on them and continued for a fortnight. But no advantage was gained; the limb vas am- putated above the seat of fracture, and the patient did well. On examination, it was found that the imnatural joint “ was now again complete. The greater part of it wm nearly the thickness of the capsule of the hip-joint,_but at one part it was thin like tne capsule of the shoulder-joint; the capsule was accidentally torn at this part with tne finger, and the inner side was seen smooth, and had very much the appea^ce ot synovial membrane, being moist and shiny. The ends of the bone were rounded, an where they came in contact, were flattened and covered with a dense fibrous structure, (a') Chirurgia Magna. Venetiis, 1498. M I-wturcs in Lancet, 1829-30, Tol. ii. (6) Phil. Trans., vol. li. 1760. Also in his cases, (d) Above cited, above cited.