78 PHLEBITIS. which we have been describing, it must have been thrown out from the vasa vasorum, these vessels having separated it and poured it into the cavity of the veins, and it must there have coagulated immediately: in this separation, therefore, from the blood, it must have undergone some change, arising from the action of the vessels ; for, if tliU lymph was no more than the coagulating lymph, with its common properties, or the properties common to that which is circulating in the same vein which receives it, it would in such cases only continue to throw in more coagulating lymph, in addition to what was circulating, and therefore probably it would be carried along with the blood to the heart as a part of the common mass. From this we should infer that this coagu- lating matter is not simply the coagulating lymph such as it was when circulating, but somewhat different, from having undergone a change in its passage through the inflamed vessels, partaking of the disposition of those solids through which it passed. * * * But this may be taken up in another point of view, and upon the same principle; the inflamed vessels may give a disposition to the blood as it is moving slowly along, to coagulate on its surface, and this is probably the more just idea of the two; as we find that the vessels both veins and arteries can give this disposition, and to a very great extent: we find, in the begining of mortification, the blood coagulating in the vessels so as to fill them up entirely, and this, preceding the mortification, seems to be for the pur- pose of securing the vessel before it is to give Avay; we, therefore cannot doubt of a co- agulating principle being given to the blood from the vessels.” (pp. 311, 12.) Accompanying the redness and cordlike feel there is more or less tenderness, and even actual and severe pain. The inflammation continues to extend towards the heart, presenting, as it proceeds, the same characters. Not unfrequently a chain of little ab- scesses take place generally at the protuberant valves, which burst of themselves, but are best laid open. The constitutional excitement varies considerably, sometimes is trifling, but sometimes very severe. With constitutional and local antiphilogistic treatment, leeching, fomenting and poulticing, the disease, however, is not unfrequently checked, the inflammation subsides, and the cordlike condition alone remains, which requires some time for its removal. If suppuration in form of little abscesses, as just mentioned, occur, the inflammation oftentimes ceases, and the case does well; but, if suppuration do not occur, then the disease becomes dangerous.—J. F. S. Attention has long been drawn to the severe form of phlebitis; for, more than fifty years since Hunter (a) observed that “ in all cases where inflammation of veins rises high, or extends itself considerably, it is to be expected that the whole system will be affected. For the most part, the same kind of affection takes place which arises from other inflammations, with this exception that where no adhesions of the sides of the vein are formed, or where such adhesions are incomplete, pus passing into the circu- lation may add to the general disorder and even render it fatal.” (p. 26.) And, having seen inflammation propagated along the jugular vein of horses into their chest, ^d followed by death, Hunter says:—“ But what is the particular circumstance which occasions iJieir death I have not been able to determine; it may either be, that the inflammation extends itself to the heart, or that the matter secreted from the inside of the vein, passes along that tube in considerable quantity to the heart,_and mixes with the blood.” (p. 25.) This suggestion of Hunter’s was, without having seen a case, converted by Abernethy (6) into an actuality, when he ascribes the great sympathetic fever occuring in an extensively inflamed vein, not simply to the inflammatory excite- ment, but also “ because irritation will be continued along the membranous lining of the vein to the heart.” Hodgson (c) copies this statement of Abernethy’s ; for, in the single case of inflamed vein ■which he gives, he says distinctly, that “ the vena ca'ra superior was healthy. The diseased appearances were not gradually lost, but terminated abruptly; the heart was healthy;” whilst “ the external jugular and the subclavian were filled with pus, and when slit open were found to be much thickened and lined with lymph.” (p. 514.) He considers that “ the constitutional irritation which is ac- companied with symptoms of greater debility than acute inflammation in general, may probably arise from the extent of the inflamed surface, but that it is not unlikclj" it may be an effect produced upon the nerv'ous system by tlie pus which is secreted into the vessel being mixed with the circulating blood.” (p. 518.) Carsiichael (a) holds that the symptoms presented in phlebitis “ were no doubt owing to the fonnation ot (a) Observations on the Inflammation of the internal ttoats of Veins; in Transactions of a So- ciety for the Improvement of Medicai and Surgical Knowledge, vol. i. London, 1798. 8vo. (b) On the occasional ill Consequences of Vene- section ; in his Surgical Works, vol. ii. (r) As above. , « — (rf) Observations on Vnrix and Varicose Inflaia- motions; in l'ransactlons of the King’s andQuwn s Coliege of Phvsicians in Ireland, vol. ii. Dublin, 1818. 8vo.