379 CAUSES OF. tetanus, and has referred to tlie participation of the reflected function at the onset of this disease. Curling (a) considers it as a simple functional disturbance, the seat or which is the tractiis motorius of the spinal marrow. [I have seen in two cases of tetanus thin plates of bone upon the arachnoid coat of the spinal marrow, and in another similar plates of cartilage. These cases I dissected, and the preparations are in St. Thomas’s Museum. But 1 have exarnined otlier cases in which no such appearance presented itself, nor indeed any other which would have been considered disease, had not the attention been especially directed to it. Hence I am fully disposed to concur with Lawrence, that “we are at a loss, we are unable to point out with any degree of clearness, in what the derangement of the spinal cord consists; nor can we show, in any definite manner, as far^as our ^examinations have hitherto gone, any distinct or clear derangement of that part.” (p. 587.)—J. F. S.J 376. The remote causes of tetanus are very various. It is mostly con- nected with wounds of fibrous ligamentous structures (1), accompa- nied with tearing, bruising, partial injury and exposure of nerves; with wounds of joints, of the face, neck, fingers, toes, of the spermatic cord (2) ; it usually begins during the suppurative period, and even during or after the scarring of the wound. Foreign bodies into the wound (3), especially splinters of bone, ligatures of arteries, if a nerve be included in the liga- ture, are all to be considered as not unfrequent causes of tetanus (4). Like- wise hot seasons of the year, cold, frequent change of the temperature, especially in low districts and in the neighbourhood of rivers, and the influence of a moist, cold, foul air upon nerves after their exposure by the separation of sloughs, emotions of the mind, especially terror. Young rustics are especially subject to tetanus. [(l) “The cases (of tetanus) which I have seen,” says John Hunter, “ from wounds, were those of the tendons, for these parts heal less readily, and the constitution is much weakened by wounds of such parts, so that sometimes a limb will waste from such a cause, —wounds being much more irritable here than in other parts, and particularly when attended with loss of blood. Nothing produces irritability more than a great loss of blood, especially when accompanied with a wound, and with this disposition of constitution. The wounds producing it are either considerable or slight: the first is a predisponent, the second an immediate cause. When I have seen it from the first, it was after the inflam- matory stage, and when good suppuration was come on; in some where it had nearly healed, and the patient was considered healthy, under the disease as well as before. Some have had locked jaw after the healing was completed. In such I have supposed the inflammation was the predisponent cause, rendering the nervous system irritable as soon as it was removed. # « » In the case of slight wounds there must already exist a predisposition, which only requires an immediate cause to bring it into action. The disease oftener arises from slight wounds than large ones, which may partly, but not entirely, arise from such being most frequent.” (pp. 585, 86.) (2) To these Travers adds:—“ Ligature of the funis iimhilicalis; of the entire sper- matic cord, and the anterior crural nerve. The former is common in hot climates ; the two latter I have myself seen.” (p. 294.) (3) John ;Hunter relates a remarkable instance of this kind. “ A man had a locked jaw about a fortnight after a nail entered the sole of his foot, which he did not at the time regard as of any consequence, the wound not being larger than that from bleeding, and not attended with any pain, inflammation, or hardness. He died; and after death I found a black line continued to a hard body under the skin, which could be dissected out almost like a lymphatic gland, and was found to be a bit of leather, surrounded by coagulable lymph ; the black line was the mark of the nail.” (p. 586.) (4) Travers says he “ never knew nor heard of a clean incised wound inflicted without concussion, as by a surgeon’s knife, in operation, producing tetanus, whatever was the structure divided.” (p. 294.) Samuel Cooper, however, states that “ in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, it once followed the operation of removing the breast.” (p, 1230.) After amputation it has also occasionally occurred, and the melancholy death of the late I'^arl of Darnley was from tetanus consequent on having accidentally chopped off two of his toes with an axe,] (a) .Above cited.