722 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. tion of both ends of the intestine, severe pain occur at tlie region of the,) * artificial a?ius, painful distension of the belly, vomiting, and even bursting^^ j of the distended bowel, and effusion of faecal matter into the cavity of the.< I belly. In this case, if the opening be not yet entirely closed, an elastic tube< | must be introduced, througli it, into the upper portion of the intestine, on 1 escape must be afforded to the collected excrement by a sponge-tent or by v ? incision. i [I have had but one case of artificial anus, and that in a boy of about ten years old, J and at the navel, the middle of the scar in which projected a little beyond the surfaeei* and was perforated by a small hole of sufficient size only to admit a probe. Throu^^; this hole a very small quantity of dark-coloured fieculent matter daily escaped, and acridity kept the edge of the aperture constantly sore. Neither how this had originated i,' (though probably from abscess in the navel) nor how long it had existed can I state, having mislaid my notes; but the child was in tolerable health, though not very stont.ii( Various means were tried without success to induce the hole to heal, among which i| attempting to form a scab with chalk and calamine powder, and the use of a pad andfli" pressure. It was, however, finally cured by tying a ligature around it as low into the;< : j hollow of the navel as it could be depressed. This separated without any inconvenienctj- fii the wound healed and the fistula was cured. King (a) considers that similar cases (of which he gives two) with that I have just ^ 1 mentioned, depend on a communication with the diverticulum ilei, and founds his.i opinion on the analogy which exists between the umbilical vesicle of the human subject ' j and the yolk sac of the chick in ovo; in the latter of which “ omphalo-mesenteric vessels n; f communicate between the yolk sac and mesentery; and there is also a trace of a tube,>r 11 on the plan of a diverticulum, opening into the intestine.” (p. 467.) The correctnes^’of • it this view was fully confirmed by examination after death of the first case he relates, of ■ ii this umbilical fistula which had been cured by making the edges raw and pinning thema 11 together. On examination, “ a diverticulum, about three inches long, was found adherai|||^ to the umbilicus; and an adventitious cord appears to have compressed the ileum, just > below its connexion with the diverticulum.’’ (p. 472.) I have also seen another case of aperture, in the navel of a woman about twenty-five years old, from which there was a constant flow of colourless fluid, and free from smell, ■ in such quantity as to wet a napkin through once or twice a day. Whence this fluid v came I cannot determine, it could scarcely have been from an intestine; I once thoughtb it might have been obtained from the bladder by passing through an urachus, but it had., not any urinary character. She had been subject to it for years, but her health was not; at all affected and she was only inconvenienced by it.—j. f. s. In concluding his review of Dupuytren’s operation for artificial anus, Lawrence ■ observes:—“Cases of artificial anus must be much more numerous in Paris than in: London. Dupuytren employed his method in between twenty and thirty instances within a short time. No opportunity has occurred to me of putting it into practice,' either at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital or elsewhere for several years; and I believe that* it has hardly been employed at all in this country.” (p. 415.)] \ k 920. If with this treatment the cure of the artificial amis be not possible,- I because the partition between the two openings of the intestine projects too* | much, the partition must be cut off with the intestinal scissors {enterotome). j invented by Dupuytren. For this purpose the position of both ends of j the gut are to be most carefully ascertained with a thick sound oiled, or - j with the finger; to do which, previous enlargement of the external wound * * with sponge-tent is often necessary. The fleshy growths, which, however,’: ' must be carefully distinguished from the intestinal protrusion, are to be * ( removed with caustic, ligature, or scissors. Finding the two openings of- ; the intestine is often attended with much difficulty, because the partition' ( is always pressed against the opening of the lower part by the stools flowing > | down from the upper, and the former is at last completely closed. The- ; more readily tlie openings of both portions of intestine are found at the ; (n) On a Fajculent Discharge at tlie Umbilicus in Guy’s Hospital Reports, Second Scries, toU I* t from communication with the diverticulum ilei; 1843.