24 INFLAMMATION. 3. Inflammation always commences witli a more or less intense pain; the sensibility of the part is increased, redness soon follows, and blood appears in vessels where previously it had not been observed; the tempe- rature of the part is raised, its functions disturbed, secretion suppressed, (at least at first,) or changed, perspiration diminished, and the part swelled. These appearances are developed, in different proportions, to a higher degree, in which fever (^Febris injlammatoria secunda) usually becomes connected with them. [I apprehend it -would be more correct to say that “ inflammation, from its very commencement, is always accompanied with a more or less intense pain,” than to say, . with our author, it “ always commences with a more or less intense pain;” inasmuch as, though that by which the patient’s attention is first excited, yet it is only an indi- cation of a disturbance set up in the economy, and which, as it becomes greater, renden., itself apparent to the eye, most commonly by redness.—J. F. S. ' | Dr. Alison (a) observes:—“ In order to give the requisite precision to the general,' notion of inflammation as a local change of the condition of any part of the body, it , seems only necessary to include in it, besides the pain, swelling, heat, and redness, the > tendency always observed, even when the changes in question are of short duration, to ’j effusion from the blood-vessels of some new products; speedily assuming in most in- • j stances the form either of coagulable lymph or of purulent matter.” (vol. i. p. 53.)] \ 4. The pain depends on the increased activity of the nerves (1), and this . again produces the succeeding increased influx of the blood, and the vital expansion of the vessels (2) ; afterwards the pain is increased by the decided expansion and tension which the part suffers. It differs according to the ’ degree of inflammation and the sensibility of the affected part: often it con- sists only in the sensation of prickling, itching, tickling, and a troublesome i stretching; often is it stabbing, tearing, burning, and, in structures largely supplied with nerves, it attains a most vehement degree (3). - The redness, heat, and swelling, depend on the increased action of the ■ nerves and capillary vessels, and is in immediate relation with the rich- ness of their ramifications. Hence the various degrees of redness, heati , and swelling, according to the degree of inflammation and the organs i therewith affected. At the onset of the inflammation the swelling always i depends on an increase of blood. The reddening of the blood (4) and evolu-' ■ tion of warmth are attributes of the living process: they must, therefore, , be also increased by its greater activity. According, however, to experi-' ■ ments with the thermometer, the warmth in inflamed parts is not so con- ■ siderable as to our touch it seems to be (5). Where the most delicate i branches of the capillary-vascular system anastomose to form the transi-' ■ tion into the veins, several capillary vessels always open together into one i single vein. By this disposition of the capillarj'-vascular system there is i already in the healthy state a slower motion of the blood, which is in close relation to the functions of the capillarj-^-vascular system. If, then, in in- - flaaimation there be an additional influx of blood, there must arise M'ith the increased activity of the capillary-vascular system and vital expansion (6) an accumulation of it, (the blood,) as the veins are not in a condition to» take up and carry away with equal readiness the blood which is brought to them in excess. The capillary vessels become therefore expanded, as - if filled by artificial injection, and even distinct in those parts where "C assume that in the natural state vessels carry ing only the uncoloured [lart of the blood exist: in the subsequent course of the inflammation new vascular branches are formed. The cellular tissue is the most especial seat of the development of vessels. These occurrences are the cause why ,(a) Library of Medicine. |