703 TREATMENT OF CARIOUS TEETH. ‘ caries of the teeth depends on an internal cause, namely, on that kind of caries which is developed in the interior of the tooth. Ihis opinion is especially grounded on the circumstance, that rottenness of the teeth fre- quently appears in every member of the same family, that the correspond- ;ino-teeth on both sides are attacked together, and the is accom- paTiied witli general disease, as rickets, scurvy, mercurial cachexy, bad constitution, weak chest, and the like. The spreading of the to < the neighbouring teeth seems rather grounded on the collection of part oi the food, which putrefies, or on the general causes, as in a peculiar parti- cipation, from the first, of the atfected teeth. CoFFiNiteE imagines that in persons with weak chests, the cure of the tooth-ache should not be effected by drawing the tooth, as by retaining the diseased tooth a good derivation may be kept up (a). 886. As to the treatment of carious teeth nothing can be done to prevent the further spread of the caries than removing the causes and improving the constitution, which in many instances is indeed im230ssible, as often no actual cause can be discovered. 887. For the purpose of restricting the further destruction of carious teeth many remedies have been proposed, which either destroy the carious part, or protect it from the contact of the air or food. To these belong spirituous aromatic tinctures, aetherial oils, kreosote, and even the actual cautery. In superficial caries, the carious part may be removed, by filing or scraping, for the purpose of preventing its effect upon the neighbouring teeth. As to the former remedies, they diminish the sensibility by their irrita- tion of the nerve of the tooth, therefore the pain is lessened, and even the offensive smell of the tooth improved, but the progress of the caries is not in tlie least arrested. Filing the carious tooth, only for the time, suspends the evil; usually it soon reappears, and makes quicker progress than before, especially in old persons. Filling up the carious tooth with thin lead, tinfoil, or with tooth-cement, and the like, (stopping,) after the sensibility has been put an end to by acrid remedies, keeps the air and the food from the carious part, but the caries is not thereby removed. The cavity of the tooth always increases, and the metal at last falls out. In order to avoid drawing the teeth, and whilst keeping them in, to get rid of the pain, the destruction of the nerve with hot platina thread or with hot iron, as well as, if the crown be tolerably healthy, the trepanning of the tooth in the direction of its root, by which the nerve is destroyed and then the tooth stopped, as also the introduc- tion of a drop of concentrated sulphuric acid has been employed (Ryan.) rCuELFUS s observations as to the falling out of the stopping are very correct, and it is frequently on this account necessary to repeat this operation, however skilfully per- formed. Before stopping, however, it must be ascertained whether the carious cavity be tender on touching with a probe, for if it be, the pressure of the stopping, whatever it may be, cannot be borne, and often excites such violent pain, that the tooth at once requires removal. I much prefer filling the hollow, once or twice a day, with a bit of cotton steeped in camphorated spirit, as it gradually diminishes the sensibility of the nerve and sometimes entirely destroys it, so that it either renders the stopping bearable or sometimes even unneeded. All severe escharotics should be avoided, for thev often increase the mischief, and compel the removal of the tooth.—J. P. S.] ^ 888. It IS most proper to recommend especial care of their teeth to per- sons affected with carious teeth, consisting in frequently rinsing the mouth with water not cold, e.specially after every meal, and in removing with a quil toothpick everything between and in the teeth. For cleaning the teetli, winch should be done every morning, a fine powder of linden wood (n) Ondet, Dictionnaire de Medecine, vol. X. p. 174.