387 CONSEQUENCES AND TREATMENT. results of these bruises (1). But if it be impossible to arrest the symptoms ")f inflammation, and proper antiphlogistic treatment do not prevent the passage of the inflammation into exudation and suppuration within the skull, i circumscribed swelling is formed, the pericranium separates, the exposed oone has a grayish colour, and its texture is changed, symptoms of pressure an the brain ensue, and trepanning is indicated (2). If the suppuration nd exudation be confined to one particular part between the skull and the ^lura mater, the operation may be serviceable (3). But most commonly, n simultaneous diffusion of the exudation over the whole surface of the rain, nothing can prevent the fatal termination. [(1)1 prefer poultiees in bruises of the scalp, as well as in other parts, to cold applica- lons; but in military surgery the use of cold lotions is especially recommended by jUTHRIE and Hennen. Directly tliere is any appearance of a disposition to inflammation of the dura mater, ;nd if there be tenderness and pufliness of the scalp, free cuts down to the bone should immediately made in the latter, and calomel administered internally till the gums re tender. Under this treatment the symptoms subside. The determination to trepan e skull, as proposed by Chelius, is not a matter of so slight import as he seems to itnnk; for it is very difficult, indeed impossible, to decide on the special point of the ion; and as frequently as not, the effusion is beneath the dura mater, instead of above I recollect having once witnessed an improvement upon trepanning in a case of this ort, in which the surgeon bored half a score gimblet-holes through the skull; the pus appened to be between the bone and the dura mater, and readily escaped, but the patient i^.—J. F. s. (2) The following are the rules and reasons laid down by Dease for applying the rephine in these cases:—“ After making use of such evacuations, &c., on the first ippearance of the symptoms, as the surgeon shall think proper, if he finds they are not itigated, or although they should for two or three, or even more days, if they return, nd the patient grows every hour visibly worse, I think the trepan should not be deferred, it. Because we cannot tell but the disease is confined to the detachment of the dura tater and its suppuration, and the brain may not be injured ; so that, in this case, the atient will be relieved by the operation. 2d, As there are no visible means left but iC operation to relieve the patient, to give him ever so small a chance will be better an leaving him to certain death.” (p. 96). (3) In reference to the existence of pus beneath the dura mater, Guthrie makes the Idlowing very important observations. “ I have seen,” says he, “ on the removal of a irtion of bone by the trephine, the dura mater rapidly rise up into the opening, so as ) attain nearly the level of the surface of the skull, totally devoid, however, of that Isatory motion which usually marks its healthy state; and an opening into it, under ese circumstances, has allowed a quantity of purulent matter to escape, proving that e unnatural elevation of the dura mater was caused by the resiliency of the brain, hen the opposing pressure of the cranium was removed. I consider this tense evation and the absence of pulsation to be positive signs of there being a fluid meath, requiring an incision into the dura mater for its evacuation. It is a point rcely at all noticed in English surgery, although much insisted upon in France ” )■ 125). In regard to puncturing the dura mater, when no pus is found between it and the nil, Dease observes;—“ As the injury is seldom confined to the dura mater, the pia ater being too often the seat of suppuration, it may be thought an advisable means to (len the first the membrane, if by the trepan no relief has been procured the patient, dthough in such a desperate case, any attempt that even bore the possibility of succeed- g should be embraced; yet this will prove in general, from all I have ever seen, 'effectual; and for this reason,—the matter is seldom or ever collected in one plaee’ It generally diffused over one or both hemispheres of the brain, or part of them • and '.though it should be immediately under the perforation, we cannot consider the fine la mater by any means equal to form such a cyst as might limit or circumscribe it, as e see the cellular membrane does in external inflammations that suppurate. However i opening this membrane, in those desperate circumstances, cannot add to the danger’ small one may be made with a lancet, which afterwards, if it be thought necessary or t any advantage to the patient, may be enlarged. I have recommended a small inci- on on this account, that the crucial one as is ordered in most of our treatises on 2 C 2