735 ANAL FISSURES-TKEATMENT. he disease has continued some time, in addition to these local symptoms there is wasting, nd extreme nervous sensibility, sometimes hypochondriasis, sometimes even retention not the same danger in regard to Fissure^t the ^?iks, as in the neighbourhood of this part, yet,” says Dupuytren, “ they ome other diseases in me — —- r - ■ ^ - Ap'imnnrtanee to relieve re in ffeneral accompanied with such violent pains, that it is ot importance m relieve hem £ soon as poss^ible. Tlie pains have a character in some degree peculiar; they ncrease cradually.and continue long after passing stool; sometimes lancinating ; they rriiowlver, most frequently burning; and patients abound in extreme terms to ies’eribe them. Usually they compare them to the sensation of a hot iron penetrating he rectum; they so dread passing their motions, on account of the horrible pain which ccompanies and follows Uiat function, that they are often observed to strive for a long ime against this imperious need, and even to deprive themselves of food to restrain it. 7hese peculiarities are sutficient to discover the nature of the disease. ’ 1 tie disease onsists iu a lengthy and superficial ulceration, about the margin of the amis, in the •adiating folds of the mucous membrane of this part. On separating the orifice, and lirecting the patient to strain, a narrow cleft is observed, with its bottom red, and its dges slightly swollen and callous. But to ascertain its extent upwards, it is often ne- eSary to introduce the finger into the rectum. It is more commonly seen at the sides •r back of the anus, than at its fore part * * * It very rarely extends through the vhole thickness of the mucous membrane. The importance of this affection depends irincipally on the painful spasm of the constrictors of the anus. The fissure is but ccidental, as is proved by the existence of painful constriction, without any cracking, rhich, according to celebrated Surgeons, is as 1 to 4. This spasm is so great, that the ntroduc.tion of the mildest bodies is intolerable; the tip of the finger, the pipe of a yringe, excites the most violent pains; and the resistance offered by the anus to every ittempt at introduction, is a new characteristic sign of the affection. The causes of .nal fissures are numerous; constipation, and the spasm it produces, specially dispose to he disease; very hard substances which scrape the mucous membrane, and distend it .‘xceedingly, may give rise to it; the administration of clysters by awkward persons, specially when metallic tubes, pointed or rough are used, are often the immediate ause; they are met with in persons affected with haemorrhoids, and venereal poison lowing from the generative organs, which happens with many women, is a very rommon cause of this affection.” (p. 282-85.) Brodie (a) says that “ the contraction of the sphincter at first appears to be merely pasmodic, without any other change of its condition ; but in proportion as muscles are ailed into greater action, so they become increased in bulk; and in conformity with ;his general rule, when spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle has existed for a ong time, the muscle becomes considerably larger than it was in its natural state iiefore the disease existed. This disease is not of uncommon occurrence; it is met vith chiefly iu women, especially those disposed to hysteria. It is, however, met with n other women, and sometimes in the male sex. The patient under these circumstances s forced to strain very much in passing her evacuations; and this is especially the case vhen the faces are hard, or even solid. There is pain not only when the faces are being ■lassed. but for a very considerable length of time afterwards; and in some cases the lain will remain from the period of one alvine evacuation to that of another, so that it s constant, or nearly so.” (p. 26.) The fissures present various differences according to their situation, “ those helow the 1. sphincter ani, affecting almost entirely the cutaneous tissue, and not the anal mucous nrface, produce,” says Dupuytren, “ a more or less severe pruritus, but they interfere ittle with going to stool, occasion no constriction of the sphincter, and consequently '.re little painful. They most commonly result from venereal affection. The fissures ihove the sphincter, attack the mucous membrane, and can only be discovered by the ise of the speculum. On introducing the finger into the rectum, there is felt at the part There they are situated, a cord knotty and hard, pressure upon which excites severe lain. They pcite, when the patient goes to stool, an indescribable pain, but which le^s immediately after the motion. The faces are covered with puriform mucous, md of a bloody appearance next the fissure. Usually they result from ulceration of nternal piles, during the passage of hardened substances. Finally the fissures at the op m the sphincter are more serious than the former; and it is in them that the so i^nful constriction of the sphincter, and the other symptoms already mentioned, are lOserved. (p. 284.) It is doubtless to this form that Brodie refers, when he says, “ in ■onnexion with the spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle, you will frequently (n) Lectures on Diseases ot tiie Rectum; in Med. Gazette, vol. xvi.