565 OF THE THIGH-BONE. od cause the inaction of the m. gluleits medius. According to Guthrie (a), the inver- •on of the foot does not depend on fracture within the capsule; but this sign is rather d iagnostic of a fracture through the great trochanter, wlien part of it remains connected .ti "ith the shaft. J. Symk (6) presumes that the inward turning of the foot occurs in ^ises in which the fracture near the liead divides part of the great trochanter, where the Jiuscles which draw it outwards are attached, and that part remains fixed to the middle lortion of the bone upon which the middle gluteal muscle is attached. Stanley jipposes that rotation of the foot inwards occurs in fracture within the capsular _ ganient when that part of the capsule remains uninjured, which corresponds to the rontof the neck. According to Dupuvtren and A. Cooper, rotation inwards happens vlien the fracture of the neck is from without inwards and from behind forwards, so lat the point of the lower fractured portion projects forwards, and of the upper, ackwards. Mercier (c) supposes that the rotation of the foot depends entirely and jlone on external causes; on the position given to the limb, in putting the patient on “is bed, perhaps also on the accident; then it may be that the patient in falling on his ip, fell more backwards than forwards, and that the great trochanter was driven in the Dtresponding direction. The rotation inwards does not depend on anatomical rela- ons; for, 1. There do not exist any which can produce it; nearly all the muscles adeavour to produce the opposite direction, and all the relations mentioned by writers an at most only render them favourable. 2. All the relations and causes are contradicted y various and even opposite facts; for this inward rotation has been observed in ractures both within and without the capsular ligament, in fracture of the neck, and in racture immediately below the great trochanter, of which Mercier has given an sample. 3. Apart from the pain caused to the patient, we may very easily manage to ring the foot from within outwards, and the contrary. 4. If, when lying on the back, :ie patient will incline outwards, the foot previously turned inwards, an effort of the •ill is required, to make the whole limb perform the necessary half circle on the ■eel. The diflSculty is very remarkable if there be only a slight bending of the limb at le knee-joint. If in a healthy state an effort be necessary for this purpose, how happens that when the thigh is broken, especially when the muscles which rotate outwards, in no longer act ? The limb must therefore remain turned inwards when that is the ositiou given to it Larrey assumes rotation of the foot inwards in every such inlock- ig of the broken ends, an opinion which, although confirmed by many observations as lose of Delpech, is generally without foundation. The diagnosis of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is otherwise generally easy; le crepitation which is frequently very obscure, becomes usually so much less so than lie other signs of fracture already noticed, and the motions of the limb which are ecessary to produce crepitation, endanger greater irritation, and especially in extensive ";aring of the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh-bone. A separation of the head of the thigh-bone from the neck consequent on external iolence, when ossification is incomplete, which is possible only in young subjects in diich the epiphysis is not yet consolidated to the rest of the bone, is in no respect istinguished from the fracture within the capsular ligament (1). [(1) A case of this kind I have at present (Aug. 1845) under my care, in a boy of in years of age who fell out of a first floor window upon his left hip. The foot was lightly turned out, and scarcely any difference in the length of the two limbs could e observed. The thigh could be readily moved in any direction and without much ain ; but on bending the knee and rotating the limb outwards a very distinct dummy ensation was frequently felt, as it seemed within the hip-joint, as if one articular t urface had slipped off another, which led me to suppose that the head of the bone i lad been broken from the neck through the epiphysis within the capsirle. Two days t fter my colleague Green carefully examined the case with me and agreed in the » pinion I had formed of it. The boy himself suffered so little inconvenience that he i lad two or three times got out of bed and walked about for a short distance. He was 'Ut upon a double inclined plane, the presiuned nature of the injury not seeming to eqnire further treatment.—J. F. S.] 671. Fracture of the neck of the tliigh-bone is distinguished from If eiyre contusion of the hip-joint in the length of the limb, in the latter case, J leing unchanged if put in the same position as the sound one; in the J (a) Remarks on the Diagnosis and on the Inver- I ion of tlie Foot in Fracture of the neck and upper h art of the Thigli-bone ; inMed.-Chir. Trans, vol. ■ ni.Mrti. p. 103. ► (6jCaw of fractured Femur, witli Inversion of % ( the Toes; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, April, 1826, p. 308. fc) Gazette Mcdicale, vol iii. Second Series. No, 36. 1835.