639 OF ITCH. « blistere not completly developed, do the old itch pustules partially re- i, main or re-appear. From tlie fifth to the sixth day, the inflammation, il redness, and burning of the skin diminish, and tlie skin peels in such q large masses, that parts of the body an inch broad and long become visi- ,! ble, covered with quite new and perfectly clean epidermis. The sleep is u quiet and tiie patient feels himself comfortable. In the bath the cuticle X comes off completely; tlie new skin is free from eruption and what still 11 remains of the old skin is already destroyed and peels off the next day IJ.without further assistance. Graf continues rubbing the skin with tallow made fluid every evening, for eight 9: days, for the purpose of removing the tension which sometimes continues _ in the deli- 4 ■ cate young skin and to facilitate the scaling of still firmly attached old pieces of epi- .d; dermis. In eruptions of many years standing, he first orders a purifying medicine of d-tartar emetic and sulphate of soda; and during the rubbing gives internally two doses 01 of sulphur daily, and rubs in a day or two longer. In cases where, after some years, ij the itch still remains local, the soap alone is sufficient; but when the above-described j|; general symptoms are present, suitable internal remedies must be employed. In seven I idays Graf (a) cured an elephantiasis spreading over the whole body. 5 For the reasons above described the efficiency of this mode of treatment may be judged of, and to it may be added some methods which have recently been recommended as especially efficient. VEZiFfs treatment, a lukewarm bath, in which the patient, standing, is to be rubbed over the whole body with warm water and black soap by if means of a piece of coarse woollen stuff, with which care should be taken to rub t, .oft' the existing itch-pustules and blisters. The patient is then, without further 4 ■ clothing, to be covered up in thick flannel and lie for twelve hours on a mattress 4: provided with a pillow, and covered up, besides the cloak, with a woollen cloth. After B the lapse of the appointed time he gives up his cloak and lying down, for the purpose q of rubbing in, near the fire, a sufficient quantity of the following salve, sulph. depur. H -subtillissivie pidv. J j. rad. helleb. alb. subl. pulv. 3ij. potass, nitr. subl. pulv. gr. x. sapon. ,■1 inigr. 3j. adip. suill. jiij. M., over the whole body and especially on those parts affected 4 with the eruption, after which he puts on his cloak and resumes his former position. iS'After twelve hours, this rubbing is to be repeated, and again after another twelve hours, ij 'When the fourth twelve hours have passed, the second and last bath is to be used, in i| which he remains as long as in the first; and the cure is completed. During the cure 9 care must be taken that the temperature of the sick-chamber should be kept up to r.28°-30° Ebaumur [=95° to 100° Fahr.] The patient should then put on clean linen I and his previously disinfected clothes. Pentzlin (6) uses tar soap, composed of one Fpart of good fat tar, two parts of old salt butter melted together over a charcoal fire, and jfone part of finely powdered potash shaken into it whilst being stirred ; this the patient d' with the help of an assistant rubs over the whole body without overlooking a spot. After putting on a clean shirt the patient goes to bed and there continues at the second rubbing, ‘ which is to be done twenty-four hours after in a similar manner. After the first or second rubbinff, the single pustules are observed to shrivel and form a flat smooth crust. Neither fiirritation nor inflammation of the skin is observed ; the patient, however, complains of a ^ disagreeable sensation principally depending on the somewhat sticky nature of the oint- 18 ment After the fourth, and at latest after the seventh rubbing all the pustules are seen » to be changed into thin, smooth, brownish crusts ; the rest of the skin appears smooth and id.natural. The patient must, however, have a purifying bath of 28° Ebaumur [=95-’ a Fato.], and after remaining in it some time and careful rubbing, the whole body is, on if leaving the bath, to be properly rubbed with green soap, and he is put to bed, where, by care- i ful rubbing kept up with woollen cloths, everything attached to the skin is removed (c). il [In the Belgian army liquid sulphuret of lime is used for the cure of the itch ac- < cording to the following orderEach patient is to be supplied with an ounce or an y ounce and a half of liquid sulphuret of lime in a small pot. This quantity he is to > rub mefully and slowly with his hands on every part that is covered with papulae. i;. papulae on the back, another patient is to rub the liquid on that part, i The operation is to be repeated three times in the twenty-four hours so that each pa- li tient consumes three or four ounces of the sulphuret daily. A bath is to be taken every I'll alternate day ; the frictions are to be suspended on that day. Fifteen frictions (or ten (6^ BehamUungsarten der Kriitze nach Vezin, (Cl Dr SEBnpD* V 1 • I ,1 T7 1 "K Fkicke, und I'feuffer; in Wurtemb. Corre- (c; Ur. DEROER, Vergloichende Versuche uber spundenzblatt, 2839, July 29.