INFLAMMATION. 28 dilated. The part of the web to which the salt was applied became of a red colour, and i this redness, which was visible to the naked eye, lasted in general from a period of | three to five or more minutes. It was impossible to view the part with the naked eye, j without conceiving it to be inflamed." Thomson hoped, from “the facility of produ- j cing, by the application of salt, a state so accurately resembling inflammation that, by examining the phenomena of the circulation in this state, he should be able to arrive at some satisfactory conclusions with respect to the comparative velocity of the blood in healthy and in inflamed vessels; but he did not upon trial find this so very easy as he had at first imagined, (p. 85.) “ The principal difficulty in ascertaining the com- parative velocity of the blood in the sound and in the red or apparently inflamed parts arose from the very variable results which the application of salt produced in different animals, and in the same animal, in different circumstances.” Thus, in nine cases, “ the application of the salt was not only followed by a bright red colour visible to the naked eye, and a sensible enlargement of the arterial and venous branches, but with an increased rapidity of circulation also in the capillary vessels. * * » The repeated application, however, of the salt to the same vessels was always sooner or later followed by retarded capillary circulation, or even by complete stagnation. A second general result from the application of the salt was an apparent increase of circulation in the arteries and veins, with a diminution of velocity in the capillary branches. * * * In no one experiment have I been able to perceive any enlargement of an artery during the momentary influx of blood into its canal. The third and most frequent result from the application of salt was diminished rapidity of circulation in arteries, veins, and capil- laries. In seventeen experiments the circulation became so slow as to stop altogether in the capillaries, and this stagnation, which usually goes off in a few minutes, continued in some instances for several hours. The enlargement of diameter in arteries, veins, and capillaries is very conspicuous: they may be said to be distended. • • * In every experiment with salt, whether the velocity of the circulation was increased, dimi- nished, or stopped, the diameters of the blood vessels were uniformly enlarged, and this i increase of diameter continued till the redness spontaneously disappeared.” (pp. 86,7.) f \ From these observations Thomson comes to the conclusion, that, “ If this view of the state of the circulation in inflamed vessels be just, it will follow that inflammation is sometimes attended by an increased, and at others by a diminished velocity in the circulation through the capillary vessels of the inflamed part, and, consequently, that neither of those two states ought to be included in the definition which we give of inflammation.” (p. 88.) These experiments and conclusion of Dr. Thomson are mentioned, because they are the first by which the condition of the vessels and the state , of the circulation under inflammation have been attempted to be explained: but they are i inconclusive ; for, as observed by J. W. Earle (a), “ although that state of parts which ■; was induced by tlie application of salt, viz. retardation and stagnation of the blood, presented the strongest resemblance to inflammation, yet in no one instance did either state continue for a sufficient length of time to allow any one of the usual accom- paniments of inflammation (to wit, the effusion of lymph or pus, or mortification) to be produced, since each variation terminated more or less speedily in tlie restoration of the natural current.” (p. 40.) Dr. W. Philip (fi) applied “ to the web of a frog’s foo^ placed under a microscope^ distilled spirits, and in a few seconds observed the blood in all the vessels moved with a greatly increased velocity, which, as he constantly kept the web wet with the distilk*d • spirits, continued as long as he observed it, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour; but , during no part of the time could he perceive the slightest syfiiptom of inflammation, either with or without the microscope. The vessels, instead of appearing redder and more turgid, were evidently paler and smaller than before the application of the spirit^” . (p. 30.) Hence it appears that his experiment does not in its result tally with Thomson’s, I who at first did not observe any increased velocity, nor ever any sensible change in the diameter of the arteries. It is probable that in neither case did the spirit operate beyond constricting the parts by the cold its evaporation produced. ^ In another ex- periment, however, inflammation was produced in the web of a frog’s foot, and then Dr. W. Philip (c) “ found the vessels of the part greatly dilated and the motion of the blood e.xtremely lan^id. In several places where the inflammation was greatest, the vessels were most distended and the motions of the blood were slow^t.” (p. 15.) ^ lie therefore considered that in inflammation the blood vessels were in a state of ( debility. ' fa) On the Nature of Inflammation, &c. (c) Introduction to a Treatise on Symptomatic (h) An Haperimenlal Inquiry into the Laws Fevers, including Inflammations, &c. 4th tilit. of the Vital Functions. London, 1826. 8vo. London, 1820.