640 VENEREAL ULCERS. days’ use) are usually sufficient for the cure of the disease, if the medical officer in ^large sees that the remedy is properly used. Preparation of the sulphuret oflime.-^ lake of sublimed sulphur 16 lbs. and of quick lime 32 lbs. and boil in 80 lbs. of water for three quarters of an hour. Let the mixture rest for some time until it settle, and then let the clear fluid be decanted off. Boil the residue afresh in about the same quantity of water, treat it in a similar manner, and add this decoction to the first Usually 140 lbs. of the sulphuret, at 12“ by the areometer are thus obtained. If th^ liquid be more dense, it should be lowered to this standard by the addition of rain water (a).] 811. In Complicated Itch the local treatment must be preceded by, or accompanied with the internal remedies in part already mentioned, sulphur alone, or with antimony, purgatives, woody drinks, and the like. If the itch by its long continuance have very much weakened the patient, or if a scrofulous, syphilitic, scorbutic, gouty, or rheumatic dyscrasy exist, the proper remedies for them must be employed. 812. Itch ulcers may be bathed with sublimate water, aqua phage- denica, in addition to sulphur ointment, or any of the above-mentioned salves. If these ulcers be of long continuance, it is advisable to establish issues before stopping them up, which in a very old itch is especially not to be neglected. 813. If the itch be quickly suppressed, we must endeavour to restore the eruption by blisters, by rubbing of tartar emetic ointment, w'ashing and rubbing the skin with irritating remedies, and even by inoculating the itch ; at the same time also external remedies acting on the skin, especially sulphur and antimony, must be used. VI.—OF VENEREAL ULCERS. [ Astrcc, J., De morbis venereis libri novem. Edit. Nov. Venet., 1760. 2vols. 4to. Fabre, Traite des Maladies Veneriennes. Third Edit., 1773. 8vo. Hunter, John, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease. London, 1786. 4to. Girtanner, C., Abhandlung iiber die venerischen Krankheiten. Gottingen, 1793- 1803. 3 vols. 8vo. Flecker’s, A. F., Deutliche Anweisung, die venerischen Krankheiten genau zu er- kennen und richtig zn unterscheiden. Second Edit. Erfurt, 1801. 8vo. Clossius, K. F., Ueber die Lustseuche. Second improved Edit. Tubing., 1799. Svo. SwEDiAUR, F., Traite complet sur les symptomes, les effets, la nature, et le traitement des Maladies Syphilitiques. 2 vols. Seventh Edit. Paris, 1817. 8vo. Lagneau, L. F., Expose des Symptomes de la Maladie Vdndrienne. Third Edit Paris, 1812. Svo. Louvrier’s, J., Nosographisch-therapeutische Dartsellung syphilitischer Krankheits- formen. Nebst Angabe einer zweckmassigen und sicheren Methode, veraltete Lust- seucheniibel zu heben. Second improved Edit. Wien und Krems, 1819. Svo. Wendt, J., Die Lustseuche in alien ihren Richtungen und in alien ihren Gestalfen. Third Edit. Bresl., 1825. Svo. Ritter, G. H., Darstellung der scheinbaren Aehnlichkeit und wesentlichen Ver- schiedenheit, welche zwischen der Schanker und Tripperseuche wahrgenommen wird; 35 jahriger Beobachtungen und Erfahrungen mit Bemerk. iiber die wichtigsten Punckte der venerischen Krankheiten. Leipzig, 1819. Svo. Carmichael, R., M.D., An Essay on Venereal Diseases, and the uses and abuses of Mercury in their Treatment. Second Edit. London, 1825. Svo. Ib., R., M.D., On the Symptoms and Specific Distinctions of Venereal Diseases. London, 1818. 8vo. (a) Ubaithwaits’s Retrospect of Practical Medicine and Surgery, vol. x. p. 115.