805 OF THE KNEE-JOINT. ilislocation outwards the prominence of tlie inner condyle is felt through he skin, and upon the outer condyle, and if tlie dislocation be complete on -ts outside, a considerable swelling is produced by the knee-cap. In dis- ocation inwards, the outer condy leis felt and the prominence of the knee- lap on the inner condyle. This dislocation is nearly always incomplete. Cozk’s obsen’ation of a dislocation of the knee-cap, in which it was half twisted ouud itself, has been denied (a). WOLF (6) has noticed a complete twisting round of the knee-cap. 1084. The causes of dislocation of the knee-cap are mostly, external iolence acting on the bone in moderate bending, or complete straightening if the leg, and after driving it to one or otlier side. Also any circumstance y wliich the foot is turned outwards whilst tlie knee turns in, may produce his dislocation. If the ligaments of the knee-cap be very relaxed, or he condyles of the thigh little prominent, this dislocation may be pro- uced by slight causes. In general, dislocations of the knee are not dangerous; but when the iolence' producing them acts very severely upon the knee-joint serious ymptoms may be caused by the contusion. 1085. In reducing this dislocation, which cannot always be effected at e first attempt, the patient should be laid upon his back, the leg straight- ned as much as possible, and the thigh bent at the hip-joint, the knee-cap ! then to be pressed directly forwards, and when its great ridge is lifted ver the edge of the condyle, it is drawn into place by the action of the uscles. The knee should be enveloped in cloths dipped in a dispersing •ash; and the patient kept quiet in bed till the pain and swelling have sed. Should the knee-cap be disposed again to be dislocated, the knee mst be supported by means of an elastic knee-bandage. I have seen a congenital dislocation of the knee-cap on both sides, in an aged man. 'he knee-cap rested entirely on the outer side, so that the middle of the knee-joint was impletely void. The knee-cap was so movable, that in the straight position of the g it could easily be brought to its proper situation, but on the slightest movement as again displaced. Both knees were very much twisted inwards, the legs aud feet .ry much outwards. The man’s gait was very difficult and imsteady. Palletta (c) examined a case of congenital dislocation of the knee-cap. XII.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. (^Luxatio Genu, Lat,; Verrenkung des Kniees, Germ.; Luxation de Genou, Fr.) VON Siebold’s Chiron., vol. i. p. 33. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 365. Cooper, A., above cited, p. 184. 1086. Dislocations of the knee are rare, on account of the great strength f the joint. The shin-bone may, however, be displaced forwards, back- ards, and to one side or other from the joint-surfaces of the thigh-bone, 'hese displacements are mostly incomplete. The ligaments and tendons inch strengthen the knee are always in these dislocations, either much rn or much stretched; even the vessels and nerves may be torn, or the )int-ends of the bones thrust out through the skin. These dislocations nnot be mistaken, on account of the projections which the shin-bone and ndyles of the thigh form in opposite directions. («) Mi-m. de la Socicte d’Emulation. .’f, vol. xviil. Paris, (V) Rost’s Magar-in, vol. xxvii. p. 47G (c) Exercitationes Pathologica:, p. 91.