WOUNDS OF 484 As an example that rupture of the womb is not always fatal, the following ease related by Powell (a) is here mentioned:— Case.—After a lingering labour of three days, the bearing pains suddenly and totally ceasing, w'ere succeeded by an immediate and a most excruciating pain of a different ' kind, accompanied with great anxiety of countenance, and other indications of extreme distress. ♦ • * Upon examination, per vaginam, the head, which had before presented as well as every other part of the child, had receded entirely' beyond reach. * * • The abdomen presented upon the whole an uniform surface, similar to what it usually does in advaneed pregnancy. « <■ * The limbs of the child could not be felt through the abdominal walls, as usually happens in these cases. The rupture was found to have “ extended along the whole course of the neck of the womb on the right side, including its orifice. The body of the uterus was much contracted, and occupying posteriorly towards the left side the space immediately above the brim of the pelvis. The delivery was effected by turning. # * * The placenta having been previously thrown off from the uterine surface, was found in the vagina immediately after the removal of the child, and withdrawn by the application of the slightest traction. No hmmorrhage nor descent of any portion of intestine succeeded to this result.” She was at first exceedingly ex- hausted, but by careful treatment slowly revived. “ After an interval of about eight days, pieces of organised structure, sloughy in their appearance, and very ofiensive from j their putridity, escaped from the vagina. After this the uterine discharge assumed the character of laudable and healthy purulent matter.” This continued for many days, and when it ceased “ a healthy evacuation of the lochia followed. * * * The most urgent symptoms, such as extreme difficulty of breathing, incessant and violent coughing, and great pain of the hypogastrium upon attempting to change her position, continued greatly to harrass her. In the midst of these unpromising circumstances, a large quantity of j j purulent matter was thrown up from the chest in the midst of a fit of coughing, which fij had the effect of greatly relieving her most distressing symptoms. She continued to ,/? expectorate purulent matter for several days afterwards.” She slowly mended, and two i months after was discharged cured. j Rigby further observes, that “wounds of the uterus are among the most influentialfj causes predisposing the organ to rupture in subsequent pregnancies or labours. Dr.*^ Merrem of Cologne (6), struck with the frequent occurrence of rupture of the uterus in women who became pregnant, after having undergone the Caisarean section, investigated . the subject, and has shown that in the nature of the cicatrix, by which wounds of the : uterus are very often closed, we have a sufficient explanation of the accident. It would . appear that the wound is not unfrequently closed merely by peritoneum, or, in other • cases, adhesions take place between the edges of the uterine wound and those of the ■ divided abdominal ^an'etes, and a fistulous opening into the womb has thus been formed, , which continued open for months. Of course, in either of these cases, the uterine con- • tractions in a subsequent labour would soon tear asunder this frail bond of union, and 1! expose the woman to all the dangers of ruptured uterus. Sometimes, indeed, the wound 11 is united by a different process, though one not mueh more secure.” Thus Mhmiesi, on i performing the Caesarean section upon a woman for the second time, found the former incision four inches long and three fingers’ breadth wide. It was eoncave instead of f: convex, like other parts of the walls of the uterus, and was composed of white glistening ;; fibres, with a dilated blood-vessel running close to either margin. In the twelfth volume *. of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Mr. Birch relates the history of a woman who >■ recovered from a rupture of the uterus. Nine years after, having married again, she t became pregnant; during labour the uterus gave way, and four days afterwards the t woman died. At the post mortem examination, at which we were present, no trace of : the former rupture could be discovered; but its situation, as described by Mr. Birch, .. corresponded exactly to the place where the uterus had again given way. Dr. Merrem * conceives “ that these cicatrices cause rupture by preventing the natural development : of the uterus, and by interfering with its regular contractions.” (p. 490.) Duparcque (c) says, that “ the walls of the womb may be also partially tom, in con- sequence of the formation and accumulation of fluids, as, for instance, pus, within them; and mentions a case of Morkre’s (d), in which an abscess was formed on the front of the womb, in consequence of a fall upon the corner of a sink during the sixth month of pregnancy. It was only discovered after delivery, by its projection across the mouth of the womb during its recession, and was cured by a puncture witli a straight bistoury guarded with lint to within four lines of its point.” In another case tmder Duparcque s (a) Medico-Chirnrg. Trans, vol. xii. (c) Above cit^. ;6) Gemeinsamc deutsclie Zeitsclirift fur Geburts- (rf) Gazette .Medicate, 1833. kunde, vol. iii.