CLEFT SOFT PALATE. 607 According to Grabfe, if the spittle be collected in the throat in quantity, we should n attempt its removal by injecting, or by brushing ofiF with a brush made with charpie ,i or linen. A solution of from one to two grains of extract of belladonna may be at once li given in a little water, by which the patient is much relieved. On the first days also K he permits strong wine, with yolk of egg, given with a spoon, and nourishing clysters. ! The living activity in the edge of the wound may be increased by pencilling with mu- >i.riatic acid, naphtha, equal parts of tincture of euphorbium, cantharides, and myrrh, or 0 in torpid persons, with tincture of cayenne pepper or capsicum. The stitches should Vonly be removed when they entirely or partially fall out of themselves. Dieffenbach also says that the patient may take fluid food without fear. A [Although the operation of staphyloraphy is generally unattended with danger, yet, 7. in a few instances it has been fatal from the inflammation spreading along the windpipe •i to the lungs, as happened in the case of an English nobleman’s daughter, who was ope- b rated on by Roux; the only one, of sixty cases on which he operated, which he lost. UilBiRARD (a) also mentions that he lost one case from pneumonia, originating in the same 4 cause; and that, in another instance, the face was attacked with erysipelas, from which, f. however, the patient recovered.] j] 738. If the union be only partially effected, the mouth may be washed U-gently with red wine, and the open parts pencilled with honey of roses, tinc- Siture of myrrh and borax, only strong fluid nourishment is to be permitted; 1 and the patient not allowed to speak. If an opening of two or three «lines remain, it may be frequently closed by touching with muriatic acid; . but if this be not effectual, these parts, three or four weeks after the com- il pletion of the scar, must be again stitched up. If the cleft do not unite ij at all, the edges soon scar with using red wine as a gargle and the pen- ;i cUling just mentioned. The cleft is generally smaller. ri Dieffenbach (a) endeavours to close such apertures in a peculiar manner. He makes on each side of the opening penetrating but parallel incisions, at the distance J of a line from the edge, by which the tension is relieved, and an approach of the edges ij-tefiected, which Dieffenbach still favours by introducing into the incision charpie »:soaked in almond oil. After the scarring of the latter he makes two similar incisions, :)4though in contrary directions, which are held together in the same way. 739. Although after most of the modes of treatment for effecting the ««uture of the palate successful results occur, yet is the above-described qpsimple mode of treatment to be considered most preferable, as from my flown experience I have proved. That the lead wire has not the many in- conveniences attributed to it by Gbaefe and Schwerdt {b), that by its h-.hardness it presses, by its weight it tears, that cutting-in is not prevented, land that severe traumatic re-action is produced, have been long since dis- /(proved by the satisfactory and numerous results of Diefpenbach’s practice even in the most difficult cases. To him owe we especially the ^greatest thanks in reference to his perfection of suture of the palate. 740. Even when the cleft is perfectly closed, the speech only becomes hi gradually more distinct as the tension of the soft palate subsides. The ^person operated on must first use himself to utter single letters, and II [afterwards syllables and so on. {a)Piii\c\Q—Suiphyloraohie; in Dict.deMed.,ou, Oi) Schwerdt, above cited. Repert. gen. des Sciences Medic,, vol.xxviii.p. 547. (c) Above cited, vol. viii. p. 102.