EMPHYSEMA. 4o2 left clavicle with the scapula, in front of the edge of the rn. trapezius, passed apparently across the back, and was cut out forty-eight hours after, below and behind the right acromeon. About ten minutes after blood flowed copiously from the mouth on turning from side to side, and was brought up by hawking or coughing slightly. Alxiut the same time also air was discharged from the orifice, and continued to be so whilst the wound remained open. In about five months the wound had healed, several spicula of bone having been discharged during the cure. Some time after, whilst exercising with the dumb-bells, “ air was forced from the chest among the soft parts on the left side of the neck and the posterior part of the shoulder, and was easily recognised by the emphy- sematous crepitus. This spread eonsiderably, became painful on pressure, and his breathing was difiicult and attended with great pain on the left side of his chest.” An incision was made, a large quantity of purulent matter and air discharged, but after two months it healed. A month after the air re-appeared, and the dyspnoea and pain recurred ; subsequently also severe cough and expectoration of mucus streaked with blood. When he coughs or shuts the glottis and makes an effort to expire, a sudden croaking noise is produced, which can be heard at a considerable distance, and on placing the hand at the root of the neck at these times, the soft parts are felt to be suddenly distended, and to communicate a feeling of crepitation, which continues at all times to a greater or less degree in the neighbourhood of the wound. This noise, and the accompanying escape of air, can be prevented by pressure with the point of the finger in the course of the first ribs, a little above and nearer to the spine than the cicatrix of the original wound.” An incision made into the root of the neck discharged only a little air, and did not afford much relief. He sunk, and died hectic. Examination.—The cavity of the chest dimi- nished ; the lungs on both sides adhering very firmly to the pleurce; their structure firmer, and their air-cells almost obliterated; the bronchi filled with puriform mucus. “ At the upper and posterior part of the left side of the thorax a cavity, between tlie surfaces of the pleura pulmonalis and costalis, capable of containing from ten to twelve cubic inches of air, and thickly lined with coagulable lymph, particularly where the lungs adhered to the parietes of the chest, and containing only a small quantity of pus. Two small openings were observable at the upper part of the cavity, penetrating through the pleura costalis, between the second and third ribs, and communicating with an abscess which existed in the upper and back part of the shoulder, immediately beneath the skin, and extending several inches backwards and downwards from the external wound. The second rib had been fractured, much callus had been thrown out for its re-uuion, and a part of it was bare.” (p. 380-83.)] 500. If the emphysema be not very great, merely confined to the neigh- bourhood of the wound, it may be got rid of by the application of dis- persing remedies. If it be greater, and raise the skin from the muscles,’ deep scarifications must be made in different parts, and the air discharged by squeezing. If suffocation threaten, the wound must be enlarged or a fresh but direct one made into the chest, by which the air passing from the lungs may freely escape. By enlarging the wound, or bj’’ opening the chest at another place, merely pressure on the lungs is prevented. Abernethy (a) considers the application of a broad chest-bandage espe- cially advantageous in emphysema, in order to prevent the motions of tlie chest. The practice of sucking, (pansement a secret,) pumping, and so on (6), to draw out the air collected in the cavity of the chest, as well as any extravasation, is doubtful and dangerous; for, so long as the wound in the lung is not healed, the air soon a^in col- lects, a bleeding scarcely stanched is thereby renewed, and opportunity is given for collapse of the lung; the same also applies to the detachment of the plug. If the air pass out freely from the wound, the pressure upon the lungs and diaphragm can never be very great. The air remaining in the cavity of the chest is soon absorbed. [“In whatever proportion,” says Hennen, “the effusion of air (into the chest) may be, the wounded lung is incapable of perfectly performing its functions; did it dilate and contract by the inhalation and expiration of air, it never could heal at alb Fortunately it lies for the most part sunk, and always quiescent; and when the wound in its parenchymatous substance coalesces, it gradually extends so as to fill, as it ongi- (n) Above cited, p. 1-3. , . . , i> (fc) .Anei., I’Art de succr les FI»iessnns sie servir 8vo.—Lunwio, I’rogr. de Suctionc \ ulnerum I ce- de la Bouclie d’un Homme. Amsterdam, 1707. toris. Lips., 17(5s. 8vo.