172 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC GONORRH(EA. are more excitable than others, and, therefore, if the injections used excite considerable ‘ pain in the vagina, they must he either diminished in strength or entirely left off. Home (a) mentions the cases of two young women, who having been infected with gonorrhoea by the men who debauched them, and having used injections of the strength generally used for common women, had “ the sides of the vagina united together by the adhesive inflammation.” (p. 90.) Such cases are very rare, but serve as a caution in the use of these remedies. If the inflammation be very severe, Ricord’s plan of introducing a plug of lint, dipped in emollient narcotic liquid, and renewed twice or thrice a day, so as to act as a poultice, may be useful, if, as he says, it can be efi’ected without pain. Ricord mentions that “ some discharges, which resist all the above applications, seem to be maintained by the contact, even of the mucous membranes and the depth of the parts continually placed in the unfavourable conditions of heat and moisture.” For these lie has found good success by “ filling the vagina, without much distending it, with dry lint, renewed two or three times a-day, according to the quantity of the discharge, which, in the cases that terminated successfully, was white and milky, and proceeded from the vagina alone.” * “ Ulcerations and papulous granulations are to be cauterized with nitrate of silver, which is to be preferred, or with nitrate of mercury on lint.” (p. 326; Fr. edit., p. 686.) Of ulcerations of the mucous membrane of the womb, I have no personal experience; but Ricord says that, “ we must here, as in the ulcerations of other parts, modify the surfaces in a more powerful manner; but the greatest precautions are necessary in cauter- izing the interior of so delicate an organ, the reaction of which would be so powerful; for, whilst the strongest caustics applied to the cervix generally produce no pain, fluids scarce possessing any caustic properties, being introduced into the cavity of the uterus, may cause the most serious consequences.” Of which he instances, from the use of an injection of one part of nitrate of mercury to eight of water, very violent hysterical attacks in some patients, and, in one, “ a cei'ebral congestion which caused a momentary apprehension of apoplexy. These symptoms, which all arose a few minutes after the injections, yielded rapidly to antispasmodics, and, in the case with the cerebral conges- tion, on a quantity of blood being taken from the arm.” He then used one part of nitrate of mercuiy to twelve of water; but these injections were not always unattended with pain, or some nervous reaction of a hysterical character. I then substituted,” says he, “ six grains of nitrate of silver to the ounce of water, and found that, in some instances, a chronic purulent uterine discharge was cured after two or three injections.” (p. 327; Fi\ edit., p. 689.) When “ vegetations originate in the interior of the urethra, constituting what were formerly termed caruncles and carnosities, they maintain discharges which cease when they are destroyed by incision or cauterization.” (p. 328; Fr. edit., p. 691.) When the urethra is affected with gonorrhoea, injections are recommended by Ricord to be used as in men, the fluid being prevented from passing into the bladder, by pressing the back of the urethra against the pubes.] 166. If the discharge become chronic, it is usually long-continued, and, upon the least excess, the smarting and burning in making water return. The many remedies advised against gleet must be used with due attention to the causes from whence it has originated. It may be caused by weak- ness, by a morbidly increased insensibility, and by organic changes in the mucous membrane of the urethra. In the first case, balsamic stimulating remedies are to be emploj'ed, balsam of copaiva in gradually increasing doses, gum kino; astringent injections of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc and copper, of sublimate ; washing the penis with spirituous fluids and so on. In the second (which i in sensitive persons sets in very soon, if the inflammatory stage of the I gonorrhoea be improperly treated) all stimulating and exciting remedies will be injurious. Haller’s acid in a decoction of salep must be admi- nistered internally ; in very high sensibility a dose of opium, or of aqua lauro-cerasi in emulsion, must be given frequently during tlie day. In tliis case only are injections of decoction of red foxglove, of poppy-.seed emul- sion, with laurel water, with opium and so on of service. The patient (n) Note in Hunter on the Venereal.