WOUNDS OF of a Rib; in Lancet liS29-oO, vol. ii. 17t)4, vol. iii. part ii. p. GO. 4o4 care and quiet are therefore required in sucli a case, and it is better to give digitalis tlian to bleeding very largely.” (pp. 231, 32.)] 503. The symptoms of inflammation of the lungs and pleura, when they ■ become severe, have great resemblance to those of extravasation. The circumstance distinguishing them is, that the .symptoms of inflammation dimini,sh after properly employing antiphlogistic treatment, whilst tho.se of extra va.sation continue or increase. 504. Wounds of the Heart are fatal, either suddenly by tlie bleeding, or the danger depends on the contraction of its fibres, if only some of them be divided, on the collection of blood in the pericardium, and on the dif- ficulty of cure from want of rest, and the consequent addition and extension of inflammation. Only slight wounds of the pericardium and of the heart are curable when the inflammation has not been great; at least distinct scars from previous injuries have been observed on the pericardium and on the surface of the heart (a). Cases, however, have occurred of wounds of the heart which have healed, in which several days after the injury and independent of it, death has taken place, and the bullet been found in the heart (b). We presume that the heart is wounded from the direction and depth of . the wound. The peculiar symptoms given of this injury are, a more or less severe pain in the region of the heart, extraordinary restlessness, and insupportable anguish ; irregular intermitting pulse ; cold extremities, cold sweat, and frequent faintings. The bleeding varies as the wound is super- ficial or deep ; in both cases it may be absent on account of the peculiar contraction of the muscles, especially in oblique wounds. The blood either pours forth externally, or into the pericardium, or into the chest, with symptoms of extravasation and of internal bleeding. Special sy^mptoms of wound of the pericardium and of the surface of the heart are not de- scribable, and equally indistinguishable are the symptoms of the parts' wounded. Perhaps the different colour of the blood in wound of the left and right side of the heart might render a diagnosis probable. The right ventricle is most frequently wounded. Wounds of the arteries are as dan- gerous as those of the ventricles ; in them a small wound may be closed by contraction of the muscular fibres. Speyer (c) distinguishes the peculiar causes of death at these different periods in which it follows wounds of the heart; when death occurs early the cause is to be found iu the heart itself, but in the more slow and subsequently occurring death the collection of blood in the brain and apoplexy are the cause. [The following is an example of speedy death after wound of the heart (d). A man ,| was jammed between two carts, taken up senseless, and dead by the time he had l>een 5 brought to the hospital. On examination, the whole surface of the chest was found ecchymosed; the eighth and ninth ribs broken and depressed; the cavity of the left pleura contained a large quantity of dark-coloured liquid and grumous blood; the hmg pushed upwards and inwards, and the diaphragm downwards. The pericardium was i slit on its left side to the extent of two inches, and contained a small quantity of black ? coagulated blood. The heart presented at its hind surface a transverse wound corre- j sponding to that in the pericardium, an inch and a half long, and penetrating |x)th ven- : tricles, which had doubtless been caused by the broken ends of the eighth rib, which protruded into the cavity of the chest. The lung and diaphragm were ecchymosed, but > not wounded. The left hypochondrion contained extravasated blood from a transverM lacerated wound of the spleen. The liver and all the abdominal viscera were both rather pale and bloodless, (p. 752.) (n) UiOHKRANi), Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. iv. p. 3. (6) Diet, lies Sciences Mcdicales, vol. iv. p. 217. Penada, Snggi scientilici o litterari di Padova, (c) Ueber die Ursache dor Todlichkeit cindran- gender Herxwunden; in the I leidellywr nicdi* cintsclien Annalcn, vol. iv. part iii. p. 259. (d) Case of Wound of the llerirt by a tragnie''