241 I IVORY-LIKE COVERING.—ANCHYLOSIS. finally in advanced life completely removed, bone being stated to be coustantlj deposited in its place till the whole surface of the joint is thus covered. 1 think, howevei , I shall 1)0 able to show tliat tliis is an erroneous statement, as at the very onset it would appear 1 imlikely that more earthy matter should be deposited, under natural circumstances, upou the ends of bones, so as to give those parts an ivory-like character, whilst on every olhm ; part of the same organs less earth is deposited, and even tlie fibrous mould in which it is lodged becomes thinner and thinner in age. . i, “ The removal of the cartilage from the heads of bones in old people, observes Kkv, “proceeds so slowly that it is diificult to say, on the examination of a joint, whether the action has ceased, or is still in a state of progress. The form of disease to which I allude is attended with a good deal of stiffening of the joint, accompanied by what arc termed rheumatic pains. The place of tlie cartilage is often supplied by a bony deposit, resembling ivory in texture as well as appearance.” (p. 242.) Toynbee says:—“ The articular cartilage is gradually being converted into bone during the whole of life; thus it is thicker in young than in adult subjects; and, as Sir B. Bkodie informs me, it is much tliinner in old age than in the adult: in fact, it is not very rare to find that the articular cartilage of the head of the os fentoris in very old persons has completely disappeared, a change which is probably to be attributed to its entire ossification.” (p. 167.) That this is merely a natural process as might be inferred from Toynbee’s observation cannot be admitted; were it so, the disappearance of the cartilage and the ivory-like covering of the joint-end of bones would be much more frequent than it is. It is quite true that the cartilages of elderly people are much thinner than those of young persons ; but this does not depend on their conversion into bone, for the shell of bone in the aged is conunonly as much attenuated in comparison. It ought also to be commonly happening in all joints, which is far from the case, as it is but rarely found except in the hip-joint. For these reasons I think Brodie’s opinion is correct, that “ it is probable in these cases the original disease had been ulceration of the cartilages.” And especially as he mentions what appears to me to be the two stages of this ivory-like appearance, tiiejirst being that which he speaks of as having “ many times in dissection observed a portion of cartilage of a joint wanting, and in its place a thin layer of hard, semi-transparent substance, of a gray colour, and presenting an irregular granulated substanceand the second, that in which “ no remains of cartilage were found on the bones of one hip ; but, in its place, a crust of bony matter was formed, of a compact texture, of a white colour, smooth, and having an appearance not very unlike that of marble.” (pp. 204, 5.) The difference of the two appearances seems to me easily explained by the continual motions in the joint wearing down the irregular granulated surface till the white, smooth, marble- like condition is produced. That it is also a consequence of absorption of the cartilage I think is further proved by the expansion of the articular surfaces, which is very often noticed in the hip-joint under this form of disease, both the head of the thigh-bone and its socket being also flattened; which flattening and spreading of ball and socket, or of hinge-joints, very frequently occurs with ulceration of cartilage without any ivory-like deposit, and as commonly when soft anchylosis exists. This then is the first and most favourable result of ulceration of cartilage, in which the motions of the joint are not materially impaired. II. Of Anchylosis.—“ This is an union of bone with bone,” says John Hunter (a), ‘ which ought not to be united, and is of two kinds, one by soft parts, the other by bone. In inflammations of joints we often have adhesions by a soft medium. Very consider- ible inflammation is necessary to produce anchylosis in joints, and much time is necessary or their perfection, as we see in white swellings. The adhesions are sometimes partial, ometimes universal. The soft is from two modes, viz., adhesion and granulation. The oft only can take place where there is naturally no intermediate substance, and the joint s surrounded by capsular ligament. Bony anchylosis I shall divide into five kinds, four if which are in the surrounding parts by ossific inflammation, the other by an entirely lew substance between the extremities of a bone.” (p. 521.) With the first four kinds ve have at present nothing to do, but the fifth kind is the immediate object of our attcu- lon, viz.. Anchylosis effected “hy the whole substance of the articulation." This is of two kinds, and these are the only ones which can admit of the soft anchylosis, t IS somewhat similar to the union which takes place in soft parts; it arises from two auscs, \st, from inflammation of the parts tliemselves; Undly, from the inflammation of lie surrounding parts, the parts themselves partaking of it. From lhe,first cause, or inflammation of tlic parts themselves, arises “ suppuration in VOL. J. («i) lAvtuteson Surgery, I’almeii's Edition. K