801 OF THE THIGH-BONE. I'll his back, the pelvis fixed witli a girtli, as in the latter case, the dislocated limb gi-asped above the ankle and drawn over the uninjured one. In reneral, however, it is necessary furtlier to fix tlie pelvis by means of a lecond strap, which passes around it and crosses the former. If the lislocation liave existed several weeks, it is best to put the patient on tlie [ound side, to fix tlie pelvis in tlie manner mentioned, to apply the girth (.ttached to the pulley around the thigh, and to raise the thigh when [he foot is drawn down ; tlie foot, however, is not to be brought too much irwards, because otherwise, the head of the thigh-bone overshoots the icket (o). In the dislocation backwards and doivmoards, the patient must be [laced on his side, the straps for extension and counter-extension employed directed, and the extension carried on, the thigh at the same time being [irected obliquely over the middle of the other. Whilst this is doing, an dstant grasps a cloth, applied round the upper part of the thigh, with one land, and draws it up, whilst with the other he presses up on the pelvis (b). In the dislocation inwards and upioards, the patient is laid upon his jde, the pelvis fixed, and extension made above the knee. The thigh is jrawn in the backward direction, around its upper part a cloth applied, fhich an assistant draws, whilst with the other hand he thrusts back the dvis, in order to lift the head of the bone over the edge of the socket (e). I The reduction of the dislocation inwards and upwards, is often rendered more easy id quick than in the other way, by Pali.etta’s method, in which the dislocated thigh , suddenly and violently bent towards the belly, when it has been abducted as much as tssible (d). , . 1 [ In the dislocation downwards Astley Cooper used to say, in his Lectures, that it light be reduced by interposing the bedpost between the thighs close up to the pelvis, M then making extension. i Morgan and Cock, of Guy’s Hospital, have reduced several dislocations of the hip- lint by placing the foot between the thighs, so that it presses against the upper part of |e dislocated bone, and thrusts it away fi'om the pelvis, extension and rohition of the |nb being at the same time made by assistants. The principle of the operation is jcisely similar to that in reducing a dislocated shoulder by putting the heel in the i-pit. This practice was first introduced about ten yeare since by Morgan (e), and it he has replaced a dislocation upon the pubes, one on the oval hole, and one upon b back of the hip-bone, without difficultj^, which he principally attributes to diverting h patient’s attention from the operator’s efibrts by unexpectedly pricking or pinching. licK has reduced one dislocation on the pubes, and two on the back of the hip-bone, by ji foot between the thighs ; but he informs me that the greater number of the persons itreated were weak or elderly. Till making inquiry, I was unaware of so many cases fving been thus managed. I do not know that the practice has been elsewhere adopted, [t I shall certainly try it, at the first opportunity, as it saves all the trouble and incon- lience of pe/ut*-straps and pullies.—J. F. S.] [1079. The completion of the reduction of a dislocated thigh-bone is licated by the audible noise, with which the head returns into the socket, the natural length and direction of the limb, by the cessation of pain. Id by the free motion of the thigh. The replaced thigh is frequently liger than the sound one, which depends on the swelling of the ligaments I the Joint. In using the pulleys, the head of the bone often returns |:o the socket without any noise, and the reduction is only noticed when p extension is given over. If the extension have not been sufficient, it list be resumed as quickly as possible, before the muscles have time to pitract afresh. In order to prevent the recurrence of dislocation, it is tliropique de Paris, 1818, p. 285.—Ammon, Pur- rallel, p. 170. (c) Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 79. 3 F i) Cooper, Asti.ev, pi. viii. fig. 2. ,) Jbid., pi. ix. (•'■) n>i<l., dp. 4- |0 Bulletins des IVOL. I. ciences par la Socicte Pliilan-