FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 389 I Upon this subject Thomson observes;—“ In some of the wounds in which tlie head jad been struck obliquely by the sabre, portions of the CTaniuvi had been removed vithout the brain appearing to have sustained much injury. In one case of this kind, vhere a considerable portion of the upper part of the occipital bone along with the dura ,Hater had been removed, a tendency to protrusion of the brain took place during an i.ttack of inflammation ; a slight degree of stupor, with loss of memory occurred : but .'U the inflammatory state having been subdued, the brain sunk to its former level, the itupor went ofl', and the memory returned. It seems probable that when the brain pro- rudes in cases of this kind, a disposition to the formation of fungus may be given ; but n the instances which I have seen this protrusion occur, it has appeared to me to pro- eed from causes very difl’erent from those by which fungus is usually produced. We lad frequent opportunities of seeing the upper and the lateral parts of the cerebrum xposed by sabre wounds; but in no case, except that which I have mentioned, did any mdency to protrusion of the brain present itself to our notice. In a remarkable sabre ut in the nape of the neck of a Frenchman in the Corderie, more than an inch in breadth f the inferior part of the left lobe of the cerebellum had been exposed, and was seen ulsating for a period of eight weeks, without any tendency to proti’usion having taken lace. This exposure was unaccompanied by any particular constitutional afi'ection; ut, like several others who had received deep cuts on the back part of the neck, this lan complained of great feebleness in the lower extremities.” (pp. 50, 1.)] 390. Fractures of the Skull {Fracturce Cranii) vary, according- as he separation of the bones is slight or the edges are wider apart; in the irraer case they are called Clefts or Fissures {Fissurce.) These may pene- rate either only through the external table, or also through the inner; r the inner table alone may have sprung off. Their direction is various ; :raight, jagged, or sometimes both at once, and so on. They occur either t the place where the external violence has acted, or far from it, and are len called Counter- Clefts (Contra-Fissurce) and Counter-Fractures Contra-Fractures.) The more brittle and fragile are the bones of the skull, le more readily do fractures occur, and because the thickness of the bones unequal at different parts, counter-fractures are produced. Fracture of le inner table happens only at those parts where the two tables are sepa- ited by diploe, and where the external is thicker than the internal, ractures of the skull occur the more easily as the bones are thinner and ore compact, and have less diploe ; they are, therefore, most common in d, and less frequent in young persons. nit may be observed, that no symptoms are here mentioned as indicating the existence ■ fissure or fracture of the skull, nor indeed are any produced from such injuries. Upon is point Pott well observes:—“ The symptoms just mentioned (vomiting, giddiness, ss of sense, speech, and voluntary motion, bleeding at the ears, nose, mouth, &c.) do ;ry frequently accompany a broken skull; but they are not produced by the breach ade in the bone, nor do they indicate such breach to have been made. They proceed ora^ an affection of the brain, or from injury done to some of the parts within the anium, independent of any ill which the bones composing it may have sustained. They e occasioned by violence offered to the contents of the head in general; are quite inde- indent of the mere breach made in the bone ; and either do or do not accompany frac- re, as such fracture may happen to be or not to'be complicated with such other ills, hey are frequently produced by extravasations of blood or serum, upon or between the embranes of the brain, or by shocks or concussions of its substance, in cases where the ml is perfectly intire and unhurt. On the other hand, the bones of the skull are metimes cracked, broken, nay, even depressed, and the patient suffers none of these niptoms. In short, as the breach made in the bone is not, nor can be, the cause of ch complaints, they ought not to be attributed to it, and that for reasons which are bv > means merely speculative.” (pp. 1.32, 33.)] ^ 391. If in fracture of the skull, its coverings be not injured, and the Iges of the fracture be not separated, the fracture cannot be discovered f the touch; it frequently can only, with more or less probabilitv, be esumed, according to the violence with which the force has operated.