OF THE THIGH-BONE. 799 stead, and by pressure upon the knee to prevent it being bent. Only in great resistance of the muscles, should tlie pelvis be fixed by a long clotli carried above the hip, and fastened to a rafter between the two bed- posts. For the abduction of tlie thigh, a strap furnished with a roller is sufficient; one or two assistants are employed. In tlie dislocation inwards and doionwards, the thigh-strap is applied as hi«-h as possible, upon the thigh, with tlie buckle forwards; an assistant lays hold of the dislocated foot, in the position in which it is kept by the dislocation, above the ankle, and holding firmly, draws it slightly down- wards. The Surgeon standing'near the patient, rests with the one hand upon the crest of the hip-bone, and with the other hand so seizes on the bandage, that it is directed under the fore and upper iliac spine, and crosses tlie axis of the thigh at a right angle. He then, with the requisite force, pulls outwards parallel to the direction of a line which may be supposed to be drawn a hand’s breadth behind the anterior upper iliac spine on the sound side, through the body to the tip of the same process on the ailing side. In this way the extensors and flexors are but slightly stretched, and the rotating muscles first participate in the flexion, when the head approaches the edge of the socket. By the ordinary flexion of these muscles the head may be lifted into the socket. In dislocation inwards and upwards, an assistant lays hold of the ailing foot above the instep, carries it upwards upon the outside of the sound foot, and keeps it in this position without drawing, whilst the pull, with the bandage, applied as in the former case, is made by the Surgeon in a line supposed to be drawn from the tip of the fore and upper iliac spine of the sound side towards the trochanter of the dislocated thigh outwards, and obliquely upwards. So soon as the toes hitherto pointing outwards, become pointed forwards, a slight pull at the ankle in the direction of the long axis of the thigh-bone, furthers its elevation into the socket, which is eftected by the extended rotating muscles. In tlie dislocation backwards and downwards, the foot is grasped by an assistant above the ankle, and drawn over the sound limb across and downwards. The bandage, applied as above described, is drawn gra- dually and strongly outwards and forwards, in the direction of a line parallel to one supposed to be drawn two hands’ breadth behind the fore and upper iliac spine of the sound' side through the body to that of the injured side. The drawing is to be continued, till the thigh itself turns outwards on its long axis, when the head of the bone is pulled into the socket, by the much stretched rotating muscles. In dislocation outwards and upwards, the thigh may either be drawn in its own axis forcibly downwards, and by the thigh-strap outwards and downwards, or an assistant must grasp the dislocated thigh in its axis inwards at the knee and ankle, and slowly lift it forwards, till it forms a right angle with the long axis of the body, and till the fore, still inner ^go of the great trochanter, comes directly beneath the fore and upper iliac spine. If the thigh be j'^et of itself so much twisted on its long axis tliat the hitherto inwards turned toes are twisted forwards, and even rather outwards, and by this self-twisting of the thigh, which cannot be prevented by fast holding, is the movement of the head of the bone over the socket declared. The assistant must now gradually let down the thigh till it lies close to the otlier, upon the bed, whereupon the reduction follows. 1077. In order to properly fix the pelvis, the patient must (according