44 ICHOR—PURIFORM MUCUS. a higher degree of coagulation, is opake, of tolerable consistence, and coagulates less by warmth, and by the concentrated acids. The difference between creamy, consistent, and thin serous pus depends entirely on the different proportions of the fluid and of the pus-globules. Bonnet, (as above,) who seems not to know the pus-globules, derives this difference from the greater proportion of the emulsive fat in the former and its smaller proportion in the latter. We may give every kind of pus that semi-trans- parency, that stringy character, that adherence of its parts which seem especially proper to mucus, if we mix and shake it up with a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia, whereby the proportion of one of its components is increased. The consistence of pus is to a certain extent influenced by the length of time it has been retained in the body, the absorption of its fluid part thereby occurring, and in suppurating surfaces perhaps also by the influence of the air, as, in the ’latter case, when the pus is washed off clean, a clear serous fluid is always observed to ooze up. In this manner we may judge of the various tests of pus, for the purpose of distinguishing it from mucus. According to Grassmeyer (a), if pus be mixed with twelve parts of distilled water and one part of liquor potasses, a viscous transparent jelly capable of being drawn into thread is formed, more quickly or more slowly according to its different composition. According to Gruithctisen’s microscopic examinations (6), pus exhibits white spherical granules slightly dotted upon the surface, which after some hours fall, and even preserve their round form in pus which has been dried and again moistened. In mucus these granules only appear when it is previously thinned with pure fluid: the granules in mucus are less numerous and dark-coloured. Fischer (as above) holds it best, in order to determine the presence of pus and mucus, to mix and shake together the questionable matter with two or three parts of liquor potasses or liquor ammonies caustici, and then to add hydrochlorate or nitric acid to neutralisation. If it contain pus, there will be pro- duced by the continued addition of the acid a whitish flocculent sediment. [(1) “ Ichor,” says Gerber, “ has very various colours, and is generally more fluid than pus. The ulcer is a wound with a dead surface incapable of throwing out or organizing plastic lymph, bedewed with a depraved serum (ichor) destructive of every exudation. This ichor acts injuriously on the ulcer, destroying it and eating into the neighbouring vessels: hence the discharge of small quantities of blood, which is immediately disco- loured in the ichor, and so much changed that the liquor sanguinis rarely coagulates, save in granules; the blood-corpuscles appear puffed up, corroded superficially, divided into irregular pieces or even shrivelled up. The blood-corpuscles thus altered are denominated ichor-corpuscles: they are commonly covered with granules attached to them or partially lying on them; their character is ascertained in the discharge of glanders which principally consists of them.” (p. .56.) (2) “ Puriform mucus, secreted in the last stage of catarrhal affections, varies according to the extent of reproduction which the affected mucous membranes require. Should tlie mucous glands and follicles be altered in a less degree than the cuticle, which after catarrhs is always produced afresh, then the mucus, besides the usual mucous corpuscles and granules, contains, instead of the usual older elements of the epithelium, which are large, squamous, granulated, epithelial cells or cylinders, a large addition of newly-formed small lenticular cells, in which the nuclei are often recognised with difficulty; hence rendering them very like large exudation-corpuscles. Sometimes among these young epithelial cells true pus-corpuscles are obserY'ed, when any part of the mucous membrane needs reproduction.” (p. 54.) (3) “ In serous exudations,” he proceeds, “ it is usual to find albuminous granules m albuminous fluids, and, if a great part of the serum be again removed by absorption, the crystals of different salts. * After plastic exudations, a yellowish turbid fluid is found in the affected cavities containing fine flocculi of a pale yellow colour these are partially precipitated upon the walls of the cavity, which appear bestrewed over the whole extent of the exudation.” (p. 42.) _ The distinguishing characters of true Pus and Ichor have been already mentioned. (4) This statement of our author, “ that chemical and, microscopical examination cannot ascertain any determinate difference between the products of inflammation and the serum of the blood,” &c. &c., and that “ their difference consists only in the different proportions of the several substances,” &c. &c.. is rather too hasty, as the extracts just quoted from Gerber on the subject show that tliere is a well-marked distinction among them.—J. F. S.] 15. Ptis cannot be produced witliout inflannnation ; but the latter may (a) AbhamUungvon dcmEiteriin<l den Mittcln, Ihn von alien, ilin filinliclien Fliissigkclton an untcrscheiden. Getting., 1790. (i) Naturhistorische Untersuchungen tiln'r den Unterscliied Zwisclien Eiter und Schleira. clien, 1809.