342 TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. distance, if its adhesions be not sufficiently firm, if the careless movements of the patient aestroy this union and so on, the artery is opened and the patient exposed to more or less immnent danger. These consecutive bleedings usually occur alxmt the tenth, fifteenth, and even twentieth day, without any premonitory symptoms, except sometimes a sero- sanguinolent oozing from the wound.” (pp. 465, 66.)] 343. The local and general treatment during suppuration must be always proportioned to the vital disposition and the powers of the wound. Particular care must be had for pure air, and for the function of the bowels. Often during suppuration inflammation recurs, the suppuration is bad, or perfectly suppressed ; the wound, when almost entirely clo.sed, breaks out again repeatedly. In such cases foreign bodies, especially splinters of bone, are usually retained which must be removed as soon as possible. If this cannot be effected in the usual way, the introduction of a seton is the most preferable means to obtain a proper outlet for the pus, and to promote the escape of the splinters of bone. [“ In cases where the separated pieces (of bone) lie loose, and cannot easily be got : at by the forceps, setons have been employed with some advantage, for the purpose of ' bringing them away; and when judiciously applied, and not carried to such a length as i to affect sound pieces of bone with caries, and thus produce what they meant to remove, , they may often be usefully had recourse to. Staff-Surgeon Boggie showed me,” says . Hennen, “ some eases at Brussels in which he had employed the seton with success, and 11 an awount of a case in which he adopted the plan is published in the 7th volume of the ;| Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Dr. Arthur, Surgeon to the forces, has also success i ■ | fully used them in some old cases at the General Hospital, Chatham. But to the indif- -; criminate introduction of setons in gun-shot injuries, either of the bones or soft parts, 1 ! cannot help entertaining strong objections. They are at best but a clumsy and unma- - nageable substitute for the knife, and in numerous instances much more painful and i irritating.” (pp. 131, 32.)] 344. If the shot-wound be connected with fracture of bones, and im- mediate amputation be not indicated, the treatment is always very tedious s and difficult. When the wound is enlarged, according to circumstances,), for the extraction of loose pieces of bone, and the arrangement in tlieir r place of the pieces still attached, we may proceed to put up the frac- - ture, and the application of a contentive tiandage by means of Scdl- -{ TETUs’s bandage and a large wooden splint, if there be not any great a swelling by contraction of the muscles; but, if tliis be the case, or p if the wounded person have yet to be moved, in which case this banclage n cannot prevent the displacement of the ends of the bone, the limb should ,i be put in the half-bent position, in which the muscles are for the most part relaxed; it must be wrapped up in Scultetcs’s bandage, and the i ends of the bone protected against much displacement. As soon as the v inflammatory symptoms are diminished by the general and local treatment,: attention must be paid to the management of the fracture. Actual extoi-! sion of the limb with Dessault’s splint, with the machines of Boter,; Sauter, and others, may be employed witli much advantage; but must Ihjv used with great caution. The causes which here especially delay the I union of the ends of the bone are, too copious suppuration, improper ar- ■ rangement of the fracture, foreign bodies, death of the bone (1). If the ■ suppuration be so great that the powers of the patient fail, amputation ■ must be prescribed at the proper time. I [“ The disposition to necrosis in gun-shot injuries of the bones, a circumstance o ■ daily occurrence in military hospitals, is,” says Hennen, “ always tedious, highly trim I blesome, and frequently dangerous. The precise time of its commencement is not t’asil; ■ ascertained; I have detected it on the twenty-first day from an injury; but it is mor ■