80 INFLAMMATION OF VEINS, ABSORBENT VESSELS. In two instances, no mention is made of pus, the contents of the veins being described in the one as “ adhesive matter,” in the otlier, where the cava was concerned, as “ flakes of lymph.” In one case only, where the inflammation occurred in a vein pre- viously diseased, or in a vein, the branches of which at least were varicose, neither pus nor lymph was found in the vessel. “ It results from this statement, that, although pus is present in the great majority of fatal cases of phlebitis, and that, although it should appear from the character of the general symptoms, and the effects produced upon animals hy the injection of a similar fluid into their vessels, the passage of pus into the circulation is probably the principal, yet the circumstances do not justify us in re- garding it as the sole, cause of the secondary affection. In addition to the presumed absence of pus in two instances, and its declared absence in a third, it may be remarked that the early appearance of the symptoms in some cases seems scarcely to correspond with the time usually required for the production of pus, as in one which occurred to Freer, (quoted by Hodgson, p. 551,) where they came on suddenly, four hours after ligature of the saphena.” (pp. 44, 45.) “ The secondary affection in phlebitis usually shows itself in from two to ten or twelve days after the receipt of the injury which has occasioned the inflammation in the vein; where the vessel has been previously diseased, sometimes sooner. ♦ The duration of this affection offers some variety,” (pp. 51, 53,) death taking place at different periods from the fourth day to the end of the seventh week. The remarkable morbid appearances recited by Arnott are, “ in the chest, effusions of sero-purulent fluid into the cavities of the pleura and pericardium, exudation of coagulable lymph on the sur- faces of the heart and lungs, hepatisation of the latter organ, infiltration of pus into its tissue, or small collections like a mixture of pus and lymph, pus also in the muscular substance of the heart. * * In the cellular substance, intermuscular as well as sub- cutaneous, pus and sero-purulent fluid have been extensively deposited, sometimes in collections like abscesses, at others, appearing more like an effusion into its cells than as resulting from the common process of inflammation. These collections more frequently occur in the vicinity of joints. * * In the joints, a most violent inflammation of the synovial membrane, its distension with purulent matter, destruction of the cartilage and haring of the bones. =*= * » In the eye, opacity of the cornea, injection of its blood-vessels, and destructive changes in its humours or its coats. Besides these affections, there were found in five instances within the cranium opacity and thickening of the tunica arachnoides, effusion between it and the pia mater, and increased secretion into the ventricles. In nine the head was not examined, and in three no morbid appearances were noticed.” (pp. 53, 57.) The conclusion at which Arnott arives is, “ that death in cases of phlebitis does not take place from the inflammation extending to the heart; whilst the history and character of the symptoms which precede this event, the very small portion of vein which is sometimes found to have been inflamed, and the general presence of pus in its cavity, all tend to establish, that the entrance of this fluid into the circulation is the principal cause of the alarming and fatal consequences of phlebitis, a similar influence being perhaps also possessed hy any inflammatory secretion from the vein.” (p. 61.) On the inflammation of the femoral and iliac veins, which occurs in puerperal women, which sometimes, hut not always, gives rise to Phlegmasia dolens. Dr. Robert Lee (a) observes, that, “ whether the inflammation of the coats of the veins be simple adhe- sive inflammation, or inflammation of a specific kind connected with the puerperal state, aud differing, not only in the degree of intensity, but in its essential nature from phlebitis after venesection, it is difficult to determine. The peculiar character of the symptoms seems strongly to favour the latter opinion, though it cannot be denied tliat the disease occasionally assumes the form of common phlebitis, fatal cases having oc- curred where pus has been found secreted by the internal coats of the iliac veins, and death caused by inflammation and apostematous deposits of matter in the lungs and other remote organs of the body.” (p. 145.)] In the Absorbent Vessels, inflammation arises either from external injuries and so on, or from some morbid matter wliicli they have taken up. It is indicated by painful red swelling of the absorbent vessels up to the nearest gland. It usually terminates in resolution. [Inflammation of the absorbent vessels may arise without either injury or the absorption of morbid matter, but simply from irritation, as frequently seen in whitlow or other inflamed condition of the fingers or toes, as when they have been chafed or after the (a) On the Pathology of Phlegmasia doleus; in Medieo Clururg. Trans, vol. xv. 1829.