FRACTURES OF THE PELVIC 544 a pair of very thick oblong pads on the ischial tuberosities, so that in sitting the point of the coccyx was in a deep pit—J. F. S.] '■i 620. The Hip-hone (die Darmbeine, Gemi.; V Os des lies, Fr.) is more exposed to fracture than the other bones of the pelvis. The direction of' the fracture varies ; sometimes only one, sometimes both hip-bones are broken, or even the share (das Scham-) and haunch bones (das Sitzbein, Germ.) Only much violence, as a fall from a great height, or being run over by a heavy waggon, and the like, can produce these fractures ; there- fore they are always accompanied with severe bruising and tearing of the soft parts, and with symptoms of concussion of the spinal marrow and of the sacral nerves. [I have seen several cases of fracture of one or other portion of these bones, but I 1 do not recollect any one in which symptoms of concussion of the spinal cord existed. 1 The most obvious circumstance is the great collapse which generally accompanies the ' accident, and which depends rather on the tearing or bursting of the bladder usually J occurring in these accidents, than on the injury of the bone itself. From the same 1 cause these fractures are almost invariably fatal; the least serious are fractures of the ; expanded part of the hip-bone. I have known one instance of recovery from compound fracture of the hip-bone. j 621. The diagnosis of fractures of the hip, share, or haunch-bone is > often very difficult, because the broken ends are generally not at all dis- placed. The slightest motion of the body and of the lower limbs causes. severe pain at the seat of fracture. The fracture may often be discovered ; by pressure upon the hip-bone and other pelvic bones ; or by its mobility, > and by its crepitation when the thigh is moved. If fracture of the hip- j bone extend through the hip-socket and the broken ends be separated, the ‘ thigh may be shortened, the foot and knee turned inwards, and the case maybe mistaken for a dislocation of theheadof the thigh-bone (1). The ■ shortened leg may easily be brought down, by pulling, to its natural length, but retracts immediately the pulling is left off; the foot has no disposition . to fall aside ; in pressing on the trochanter or iliac crest of the injured side, deep crepitation is felt; both trochanters stand out equally distant from the upper anterior spine of the ilium (a). When the hip-bone is separated from the rump-bone and the share and haunch bones are broken, the foot is shortened, but retains its proper position. These cases are distinguished from dislocation by the crepitation, which is easily discovered on moving the thigh, and by its more free motions of the latter. If there be displacement of the ends of the fracture, elevations and depressions are felt; and also exami- nation of the pelvic cavity through the rectum or the vagina often declares fracture of the pelvic bones. By the separation of the ends of the fracture inwards, especially if they be split, the parts in the cavity of the pelvis are injured, extravasation of the urine and the like are produced (2). [(1) The discovery of fracture of the hip-bone is generally easy, by fixing the true pelvis with one hand, and with the other, having thrust in the fingers over the crest of the hip-bone as far into the iliac pit as the abdominal muscles will permit, attempting to move it in and out, which may be done if it be broken. In the same way, but less readily fracture of the haunch-bone may be ascertained, by grasping its mberosity and endeavouring to move it Displacement in these fractures, so far as I have observed, is rarely of any great extent, and the bones are so covered by soft parts, that they would generally be over- looked, were it not that the circumstances of the accident being told, leads to an nation of the injury to determine its extent. I do not see any great advantage derived from making an examination by the rectum or by the vagina.—J. F. S.] (a) Cooper, Astley, above cited, p. lOj.—Fricke, Annalcn der Cliirurg. Ablheil. des allge*- Krankbeit.; in Hamburg, vol. ii. p. 131.—Eaiu.e, Henry, above cited, p. 250.