OPERATION FOR 598 and then on tlie others, and to be sufficiently drawn till the edges of the wound are brought into close contact. The ends of the thread are to be tied in a slip knot; and care must be taken that the threads sliould regularly and closely cover every part of the wound. Beneath the ends of the needles pieces of sticking plaster should be put, for the purpose of pre- venting their digging into the skin. The union is to be supported by strips of sticking plaster with their ends cleft, their middle being placed on the nape of the neck, and the cleft ends carried beneath the ears over the cheeks, which are to be pressed forwards, continued in the interspaces of the needles, crossed and fastened upon the opposite sides. Dieffenbach, instead of the common pins for twisting the threads upon, employs the most delicate Karlsbad insect-needles, which he separately envelops in thread, and cuts off the two ends of the needle with scissors (2). As regards the result of the operation, it is nearly the same whether the edge of the cleft be removed with the bistoury or with scissors. In thick, pufiy, and irregular edge, the bistoury is always preferable. The union of the cleft by the twisted suture and sticking plaster is most preferable, as the interrupted sutures, recommended by some, do not produce so close union, and the threads easily tear out. The uniting bandages and dressings of Richter, Stuckelberg, and others, are easily displaced. Mayor (a) pierces the left edge of the wound near its free end with a needle, which he introduces at a right angle from within outwards, drawing with it a double thread, at the end of which a ball of cotton is attached; by its pressure the edges of the wound are united, and, by tying together the ends of the threads upon a ball of wool put between them, the union is supported probably as well as in the seam suture. [(1)*'“ It has usually been the practice,” says Lawrence, “ to employ two hare-lip pins, (consisting of a hollow silver cylinder with a steel point,) and to put one just at the point where the red part of the lip joins the external integuments, and another near the upper angle of the wound ; but in performing the operation on the young subject at the age I have mentioned, and I have always performed it thus early, I have invariably found it sufficient to use a single hare-lip pin, introducing it at the lower part of the fissure, near the red portion of the lip, and to irnite the wound at the upper angle with a simple suture. * • * Having introduced the pin, I take out with the forceps the steel point, the silver part only being left in its situation. • ♦ * Then having secured the pin with two or three turns of the silk, you can put in the simple suture. * * * You do not put anything further over the wound, there is nothing wanted, in fact; yon leave the wound, and find that you can remove the pin and cut out the simple ligature placed above it, about the fifth or sixth day, when you will usually find the fissure com- pletely united.” (pp. 819, 20.) (2) The thin insect-pins recommended by Dieffenbach are much the best kind of pin for this operation; and the thinner they are, if they will only bear the necessary pressure for their introduction, the better, as they leave a proportionally smaller scar. I generally use three pins. The application of strips of sticking plaster is as unnecessary as it is irksome.—J. F. S.] 728. After the operation the child is to be laid a little on one side, and attention paid to the continuance of the bleeding (1) ; he should be soothed as much as possible, and the food should be given only at the corner of the mouth. If he cry much, some syrupiis opiatus should be given. The dressings must be cleaned daily with luke-warm water from the mucus flowing from the nose, and the needles smeared with oil. On the fourth day, after having removed the plaster and cleansed and oiled the needles, they are to be removed, the upper first, and afterwards the lower, during which the lip is to be held together Yvith the fingers of the left hand, sticking plaster must be applied till the wound is perfectly consolidated (2). [(1) Bleeding after the edges of the wound have been applied and fixed with the pins and threads is of very rare occurrence; indeed I have never known it no plaster should be used, scabs very quickly form on the wound and about the threads, (o) Nouvean Point de suture pour I'opcration du Bee de UJvre ; in Qaiette Mcdicalc de Paris.