697 TREATMENT. A forth to a considerable distance, at others trickling down the limb, but in neither case A restraiiiable. He lost great quantities of blood, and fainted seven or eight times. Wlien ,1 admitted on the following day his face was quite blanched and very anxious; he was S extremely exhausted; pulse small, thrilling, and 150. On pressing the small livid 2 fistulous opening in the thigh, thin serous blood slowly discharged, and the finger 2 seemed to sink into a deep cavity; pulsation was quite cUhtinct in the swelling; the ^ lower part of the thigh-bone was enlarged, and the popliteal space filled up, but the '§! artery was felt pulsating below. Amputation was proposed, but he would not consent. The thigh continued swelling above the bandage, became gangrenous nearly up to the buttock, and he died on the evening of the 6th of January. On examination the pop- liteal space was found filled with thick grumous clots; on the artery, just below its entrance into the space, was an opening. The lower part of the thigh-bone was consi- I derably enlarged, rough, and a large portion of its posterior or popliteal aspect de- stroyed, so as to admit the fingers into a large cavity within. In the upper part of this I cavity was discovered the sharp point of a sequester, movable, and accurately corre- : spending to the aperture in the artery, which it evidently seemed to have occasioned.] 874. In the treatment of necrosis, nature must be assisted in throwing : off the sequester, which is then to be removed. If at the first there be «severe pain, inflammation and fever, it must be attempted to lessen them • by general and local blood-letting, according to the strength of the ' patient, by softening poultices and the like. If syphilis, gout, or other I dyscrasic dieases be connected with necrosis, the contraindicated remedies ; must be made use of. Where the general condition of the patient is good, and the necrosis originating from external causes, the separation of the . sequester usually occurs soon, provided nature have not been disturbed by : improper treatment. If the patient be well, his powers must be supported ' by good nourishing diet and strengthening remedies. The local treatment m^t be quite mild ; moist, warm, slightly aromatic applications should be us^, as in canes, and the fistulous openings covered with charpie, soaked in j mud ointments, ^ ! throwing off of the sequester, as the enlarge- ment of the fistulous apertures, the application of sharp spirituous remedies the actual 1 ^utery the repeated boring of the dead piece of boL, are hu^ul SsmucCf Tv ■ S ifaU destruction, but on the dead bone have no ■ 875. When the sequester has separated, which is known, on exami- j nation, by its mobility, it is not unfrequently thrown out by nature or r ^ually removed by absorption. But if, on account of ks peculiar »■ position, on account of the surrounding soft parts, or of the bony capsule I For ^^^h^b^’ "^5 possible, the sequester must be removed by art ll/ f °ft«"times a simple incision of the soft pari of ."^oded; if the sequester be enclosed ini bony I enfar ^ longitudinal incision, the apertures must be I enlarged with a bistoury, if the bone be soft enough ; boring treiansule aideLSroVentgTs'reTuM ft to pieces Witli thi forceps so ® break it ■After its removal, the iound is to be liehtfv vi ^ opening, thing removed which can disturb the deveSlmentif the care taken for the sufficient outlet of the pus granulations, and (o) WErDMANN.P., above cited.