DISLOCATION 770 1000. If tlie result of these examinations be used for the purpose of clearing up the way in which these dislocations originate, it must only be', permitted us to draw conclusions from those observations which have Ijeen i made soon after birth, as in old dislocations of this kind, still more decidedi-i changes must arise from the progressive development of the body, as well in tlie empty socket, as in the dislocated head, than in old dislocations;, which have occurred at a later period of life. But in the examination of such congenital dislocations at an early period of life, there are only such • conditions of the parts of the joint as can be ascribed to the position of < the foetus in the womb, or to the violence which has operated during birth. An observation of Cruveliiieu’s (a) favours the first cause as regards'; congenital dislocation of the thigh-bone, an observation of PALLETTA’s(6)ft the second. This is still more decided as regards congenital dislocationsti in other joints, as resulting from,several observations. The position of the.- foetus in the womb, I consider, is the principal cause of this dislocation, i. and I believe, that the dislocation is effected by it, either directly, in a mechanical way, or that it gives rise to the prevention of the developmenhi of the parts of the joint, and therefore that the latter is not to be considered^ as a primary cause, but only as a consequence. The observations of D’Outrepont on the origin of this dislocation, from violence during, birth, correspond with mine, and I find no contradiction to my long pub-r lished opinion, in that which Von Ammon (c) has objected to it. 1001. The possibility of reducing congenital dislocation depends on the, changes which the muscles have undergone in their dimensions, direction,*, structure, and texture, on the change in the ligaments and capsules, the i head and surfaces of the joints, on the clianges of the vessels and nerves,^ of the cellular tissue and skin, and on the changes of the bones in the neighbourhood of the dislocation. Reduction is to be effected by long; continued and gradually increased extension by means of proper apparatus,, and by properly fixing the head of the bone, in the socket, after it has been*' brought into it. If the several shortened muscles do not lengthen, andii project considerably, extension should be assisted by cutting them tiirou^ beneath the skin. Second Chapter.—OF PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS. I.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. (^Luxatio Maxilla Inferioris, Lat.; Verrenkung der unteren Kinnlade, Germ.; LuxoMt de la Mdchoire inferieure, Fr.) Binken, Dissert, de maxillae inferioris luxatioue. Gottingse, 1794. Zertamino, Ueber den wahren Mechamismns der Luxation der Unterkinulade; m VON Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. p. 349. Boyer, Above cited, vol. iv. p. 77. 1002. The condyles of the lower jaw can be dislocated only in od€ direction, viz., forwards; the spinous process of the sphenoid bone pre- vents it inwards, the front wall of the bony auditorj' passage backward-s the impossibility of inward movement of tlie opposite side without frac-; ^a) Exfircitationes Pathologies, p 88. (t) Anatomie Pathologique, vol. U. *■ ( c) Above cited.