577 KNEE-CAP. ^ 691. Fracture of the Knee-cap, has most usually a transverse, rarely a longitudinal, and often a more or less oblique direction ; or the bone is split to pieces. In the former case it may be consequent on violent contraction of the muscles attached to the knee-cap in violent bending of the leg; in other cases it is always produced by direct external violence iiid is accompanied witli great contusion, with effusion of blood into the joint, or with wound. 692. The diagnosis is easy. There has been previous violent tension .vhilst the knee was bent, to preserve the equilibrium of the body, or a fall ipon tlie knee whilst the leg was bent; the patient feels severe pain, often lears a crack, and can neither stand up nor stretch out his foot after the fall, fn transverse fracture a space is distinctly felt between the two ends of the jone, whicli are separated, the upper piece being drawn upwards. This :eparation is the greater, the more the fibrous covering of the knee-cap is :orn, and may extend to four or five inches; but it is lessened when the leg is itraightened. Crepitation is not observed because the broken ends cannot )e brought into immediate contact. In vertical, oblique, or splintered ractures of the knee-cap, the separation and mobility of the broken ends •,nd crepitation are felt on examination. 693. The union of the fractured pieces is effected by means of a fibrous ntersubstance, the cause of which does not depend on the sponginess and solation of the bone, npr on the want of blood between the fractured ^urfeces, nor on the intrusion of the synovia, and paucity of vessels in the ||)one and surrounding parts, but on the difficulty of retaining the fractured l|nds in sufficiently close contact. The opinion, however, that in trans- I -erse fracture the consolidation does not depend on callus, is unfounded j .nd disproved by experience (a). In splintering of the knee-cap, the 9 iroken ends are usually connected by callus. If the intersubstance I vhich effects the union be not very broad, the motions of the joint are Scarcely hindered, but under contrary circumstances the gait is more insteady. If with fracture of the knee-cap there be severe bruising or a M round of the joint, the injury is always important, as anchylosis or sup- if luration of the joint with fatal consequences may ensue. Even in simple u racture, by the use of unsuitable and especially of too tight bandages, a destruction of motion, union of the upper part of the knee-cap with the ront of the thigh-bone, with atrophy of the ligaments and extending A auscles may occur, which is worse than if a broad intersubstance had I een formed. ♦ From Gulliver’s observations (6), it appears, 1. That if the aponeurosis be com- > letely divided as is the case in fracture from muscular contraction, a bony union is ij ot to be expected; 2. In transverse fractures in which bony union is deficient, the ^ ragments and the interposed fibrous tissue are well provided with vessels; the want of H, nion, therefore, is not to be ascribed to imperfect nourishment; 3. If the union in ^ rMsverse fractures be effected by fibrous substance, there is often a bony deposit on the ^Qds of the bone, so that the fragments have the appearance of two symmetrical ; ones; 4. Bony union is simply the result of immovable adjustment of the frag- iMients which, in many cases of fracture, the uninjured state of the aponeurosis on the rt«)re part epcts; 5. New bones, which in fracture of the knee-cap seem to be formed • kJt ^ oroken pieces. The surrounding cellular tissue rarely or never becomes con- ^md into ^ne; the fibrous tissue goes directly to the production of new bone. No lymiiaginoid substance appears during the ossification. m -.ischen nnd derfranz- Lanoenbeck, neueBibliothek fnrChirurgieimd «nen nnd deutschcr Cliirurgie, p. 151. Oplithalmologie, vol. iii. pt. i. p. 49. (0) Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1^7. No. 130. VOL. I. 2 ^