ACTUAL CAUTERY IN AFTER-BLEEDING. 3L A.t 4, P.M., Lis surgeon being ill, I was requested to see On removing the coagulura, a ligature was found and withdrawn; the blood flowed from a sinus which would admit the finger, and up this a piece of sponge was introduced, the tourniquet taken off, and the stump kept cool with Goulard’s wash. A gram of superacetate of lead was ordered at 5, p.m., and to be repeated at C, P. m. The vomiting soon after returned, and continued during the evening ; but he got a little sleep. Maij 2, 1, A.M. The sponge having slipped out, was replaced; but bleeding did not return, and at noon it was removed. A small quantity of sulphate of magnesia was given to produce a stool, and a drachm of powdered sarsaparilla ordered In the course of tlie afternoon he had a little wandering, but it soon went oft. Under this treatment he continued improving till • s i i May 23, when another profuse bleeding (the dresser says to three pints) took place. Finding the end of the stump much swollen from the pressure of the tourniquet, which had been put on to check the bleeding, I removed it, and adjusted the pad of a small truss upon the inner side of the thigh near the end of the stump, with a view to com- press the sides of the artery, and at the same time permit the blood to pass through the small arteries, and allow its return by the veins, as well as that of the lymph by the absorbents. "This plan succeeded, till May 26, 11, p.m., when the pad probably having slipped, another severe bleeding ensued, to the amount of two pints. The tourniquet was used, but without efifect, and the bleeding could only be restrained by great pressure of the dresser’s thumb, as the arterial action was very strong. An injection of strong solution of alum was thrown up, but without benefit, and gave much pain. He was much exhausted; and his pulse 120, and irritable. A grain of acetate of lead was given, with twenty drops of lauda- num, at midnight, and Alay 27, 1, a.m., it was repeated ; but the arterial action and bleeding continued. 5, A.M. I was called to him; and the means hitherto employed having failed, I deter- mined to apply the actual cautery, by passing a hot iron up the bleeding vessel. With this view, the sinus from whence the blood flowed, together with a part of the end of the stump, were slit up; and it then appeared that the sinus was the end of the artery in a diseased state, resembling the structure of an aueurismal sac, when the whole cylinder of the vessel is enlarged. This aneurismal condition extended from the face of the stump upwards about two inches, and was large enough to admit the thumb; above this the vessel was sound. A canula was then passed up to the distance of three inches, so as to enter the healthy part of the artery, and into it a hot iron was introduced, with which the coats of the artery were burnt, in hope of producing inflammation and con- sequent adhesion. The cauterization gave great pain, but immediately arrested the bleeding. The canula was left in the vessel,which, shrivelling up, had become adherent to it. He began speedily to improve, and, with the exception of one slight bleeding, did well; and was discharged. Aug. 10. Perfectly well. Case 2.—G. M., aged about twenty-five years, was admitted Feb. 11, 1819, with an affection of the left knee, of long continuance, from which his health has suffered much. A fortnight ago an abscess of considerable size had formed on the inside of the knee, and burst. He was advised at once to submit to the loss of his limb, on account of the exhausting effect of the disease on his constitution. Feb. 19. The leg was amputated above the knee in the usual manner, and three liga- tures applied. Two hours after, his pulse was quick and throbbing, and slight bleeding occurred from the stump, which was then covered with cold lotion, but without advan- tage, as the bleeding increased; and in three hours’ time had become so profuse, that it was necessary to remove the dressing, open the wound, and clear away the clot, which being done, a small artery was found and secured, and the bleeding ceased. Feb. 24. Has gone on well: part of the dressings were taken off, and replaced • there is a slight discharge, but no appearance of adhesion. On the following day the rest of the wound was dressed, and the ligature last applied came away. Feb. 28. Was requested to visit him on account of a return of the haemorrhage, and ordered the stump to be kept cool: pulse 140, and full; he has a troublesome cough. The wound has begun to granulate. ° At 5, P.M. As the bleeding was still free the dressings were removed, and attempts made to secure the artery, but in vain, as it had retracted very much. The patient soon became faint, and the bleeding then ceased. ^ March 1 He appeared weak from the loss of blood, but haemorrhage had not re- curred. His cough still remains troublesome. March 3. This evening a fresh bleeding having come on, Astley Cooper endeavoured