1 ITCH. 635 Wenzel, K., Die wahre Kiiitze, mit besonderer Beruchsichtigung ihrer unrichtigen und unheilstiftenden Behandlungsarten als eine Quelle zahlloser furchtbarer Nachkrank- heiten. Bamberg, 1825. 8vo. Cazenave, a. et Schedel, H. E., Abrege pratique des Maladies de la Pean, d’apr^s les auteurs les plus estime's et surtout d’aprbs les documens pulse's daus la Clinique de M. le Dr. Biett. Paris, 1828. 8vo. Ackersiann, J. C. G., Bemerkungen uber die Kenntniss und Kur einiger Krank- heiten, part v. Vezin, Ueber die KiiLtze und ihre Behandlung. Osnabriich, 1843. Second Edit. 802. The Itch (Scabies, Psora, Lat.; Krdtze, Germ.; Gale, Fr.) con- - sists in an eruption of vesicles which, sometimes small and millet-shaped, ■ are filled with transparent fluid, sometimes are larger and filled with thick t pus-like matter, somewhat inflamed at their circumference, and mostly at ? first occurring between the fingers, on the wrists, and on the joints; 1 gradually they spread over the whole body, and burn and smart severely { after the person is heated, or during the night. The vesicles either dry c up and crust, (Pry Itch, Scabies sicca,) or they burn and pour out an ; acrid fluid which corrodes the parts (Moist Itch, Scabies humida.) ■ If the itch be neglected or suppressed, many vesicles often arise at one I part, run together, burst and discharge an acrid ichor, which seizing on the neighbouring parts, considerable ulcers are often in consequence pro- ! duced, which are covered with scabs; between these the acrid fluid penetrates ; their edge is thick, and their circumference covered with itch- pustules (Itch Ulcers, Ulcera scabiosa.) The appearance of these ulcers, the previous existence of the itch, which has been quickly suppressed, or the still existing eruption, render the diagnosis easy, [Krause (cl) states that itch may exist in persons who wash themselves often, or who have very tough skins, without any eruption; the itching and the power of communi- ! cation may be present, but no visible sign of the disorder may exist, except the burrows of the insect] 803. The cause of itch is a contagious matter which can only produce the disease by immediate and somewhat long-continued contact of a person affected with the itch, or by substances, as clothes, bedding, and the like, infected with the contagion. The susceptibility for this contagion varies, hut it is favoured by uncleanliness, living in bad air, bad food, and the like; from which circumstances itch is very common in work- houses, among the poor, in dirty hospitals, in certain businesses, and so on. As to the itch-mite found in the pus of the itch-pustule, and which Mme consider as the cause of the disease, others as secondarily developed in the itch-pustule, opinions are not yet alike, even after the careful inquiries of late made. The so-called False Itch (Scabies spuria, symptomatica) indeed re- sembles the true disease in its appearance ; it does not, however, usually first show itself between the fingers, does not smart so much in warmth, is not contagious, but may be so, and under certain circumstances runs into true itch. In most cases it seems to be a kind of herpes, arises particularly in great uncleanliness, in bad feeding, in living in bad air, after the suppression of the usual discharges in persons who have been subject from early years to stoppage in the bowels, scrofula, or gout, in spnng time, and during recovery from inflammatory diseases. On the outbreak of itch other diseases often disappear (Scabies critica.) («) Casper’s Wochenschrift, July, 1810.—Forbes’s British and Foreign Medical Keview, vol. x. p. 564,