711 FISTULAS IN GENERAL. j„te ...e f .n. .!« « «<l SS/dtS ton U.« disp^portiin i» “Jp^ari^SroS :?;i,fd£r“ ataXXS°fS™«f Tte fiS preveutetl healinc at the bottom by the pressure of tlie matter. The second has two the fi«t the part being natin-ally indolent, as tendons; the second, from a dfisease’ in parts^naturally rLdy to hf al, but the disease being deep seated, the skin is more ready to liLl than the bottom of the fistula, and thus obstructs the necessary fiee dis- charge.” (p. 579.)] _ _ . 900. The prognosis in fistula depends on the possibility of conducting the fluid through the natural ducts; farther, on the condition of the fis- tulous openings, whether they be accompanied with or without loss of sub- stance, whether they communicate immediately, or by a more or less long canal with the cavity, or with the duct, and whether their walls be converted into a mucous tissue, or callosities. In fistulas of long standing that part of the duct in front of the fistulous opening, and through which fluid no longer escapes, loses its natural area, shrivels up, and the cure is only possible by making an artificial aperture in the cavity, into which the fluid should be conveyed by the natural duct, as for instance, in Sali- vary Fistula. 901. The indications for the cure of fistulas are, therefore,—1. The restoration of the natural ducts and the conduct of the fluids from the flstidas. This is usually sufficient, and the fistula closes of itself, if the mucous lining, or the callosities, have not formed. In this case the canal of the fistula must be either divided, or a sufficient degree of inflamma- tion and adhesion produced by stimulating remedies and suitable com- pression. The callosities usually subside, if the flow through the fistula be prevented by the use of soothing applications. 2. The estahlishment of an artificial duct, if the restoration of the natural passage be not pos- sible, which effected, the fistula closes, either of itself or under the above- mentioned treatment. If the fistula be an immediate opening to a duct, without narrowing of the latter, cauterization about the fistulous opening is the best remedy to produce gradual lessening and ultimate closing of the fistula. The paring the edges of the fistula, and their union, has rarely had satisfactory results. This treatment by cauterization (with caustic remedies, or with the actual cautery) is founded on the central contrac- tion occurring in burns (a). If with such fistula there be considerable loss of substance, the opening can often be only closed by implanting or drawing forward skin from the neighbourhood. [“The cure of fistula,” observes John Hunter, “consists in first removing the immediate cause; for frequently they get well by simply removing the obstruction. * * * The cause of our first division of fistula, arising from confined matter, is some- times easily removed, but not always, by opening the suppurated part in the most depending situation, when, if the parts are readily disposed to heal, a cure takes place. The second, from a diseased state, must have the disease removed or extirpated if possible; but this is often impracticable. A perfect exposure is the next object; but the case will not often admit of it, and then becoming incurable, it sometimes produces hectic, as in lumbar abscesses and abscesses of the liver which open externally, but <annot be exposed. The constitution in such cases is to he most attended to, and every thing done to lessen the irritation ; but in most cases life is miserable, and we only pro- tract It a little longer by our best efforts.” (p. 581.)] Fisteln, weldie duroli Cauterisation im Urafange der Fistel- pt i. p j“.**®**®" Archiv. fur I'liysiologische Medicin, von Uoser und Wanderliou, 1842,