804 DISLOCATION excite us to the early employment of the means of reduction; altlioujrji,, tlie hitherto known cases do not irrevocably prove the actually resultiiijr'd reduction, as the lengthening of the limb effected, and the diminish^-j lameness, perhaps, depend on the displacement of i\\e jmlcis, or the position i of the head of the thigh-bone in the ischiatic pit. (1) I have observed one case of dislocation on both sides, in which the walking was at first extremely difficult, but from the fifteenth year and onwards so improved, that ( now, when the patient is about twenty years old, there is scarcely any trace of peculiar if gait to be noticed. (2) Pravaz (a) communicates a case of reduction of congenital dislocation of the < thigh, in a girl eight years old, by gradual lengthening of the limb, and by violent al>- , duction, assisted by a methodical pressure on the great trochanter. If the refliicUon « be ensured by long-continued rest, various movements of the limb should be performed, , the body still being at rest. He believes that even in the cases in which there is not any existing cotyloid cavity, a dislocation of the head of the thigh-bone downwards fi causes slight halting. A second case happened in a boy of eight years, in whom tlie o reduction was effected by gradual extension, kept up for several months, after wliich i gymnastic exercises were used, which were proper for strengthening the joint and per- -i feeling its coaptation (b). Guerin effected a cure in six cases. H. Joffre (c) refers to the two cases of Pravaz, denies the observations of Humbert (tZ), and thinks that -i in them no perfect reduction was found, but that merely the head of the bone was situated 4 in the ischiatic pit. Heine, of Cannstadt, has given a very clever apparatus, which, with continued exten- i sion, permits every other seemingly necessary movement and direction of the extremity. ■ • But notwithstanding all his care and perseverance, he could not, in this dislocation of ■ the thigh, effect any result (e). Guerin (/) makes a preparatory and continued exteusion, by ivhich the shortened muscles are lengthened and are brought to stretch out; cutting through the muscles t which do not lengthen ; extension of the shortened ligaments, and where this is im- possible, cutting them through ; reduction and its preservation by apparatus. According .■ to Pravaz (jr) every congenital dislocation may be reduced, if it be possible to bring the thighs up to the shoulders, without bending the legs against the thighs (^). OF DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE-CAP. {Luxatio Patellae, Lat.; Verreiikung der Knieschiebe, Germ.; Luxation de la Rohde, Fr.) Le Vaguer et Picquet, Theses de variis patellae luxationibus. Paris, 17G1. 4to. Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. .347. Cooper, A., above cited, p. 178. Malgaicne, Memoire sur la determination des diverses espc-ces de Luxation de la Eotule. Paris, 1837. 1083. Dislocation of the Knee-cap may happen in two different direc- tions, viz., outwards and inwards; the former kind of displacement is much more common than the latter. These dislocations may be complete = or incomplete ; in the first the cap leaves the joint-surfaces of the tliigh- bone, and rests on one or other protuberance ; in the second it still partially touches the corresponding surface. Diagnosis of dislocation of the knee- cap is always easy ; the limb is outstretched ; and if it be attempted to bend the leg, the pain is increased ; the knee has lost its natural form. D (а) Revue Medicate, April, 1835. (б) Annalesd'Ilygiene publique ; in Froriep's Notizen, No. 122. (c) Journal dcs Connaissances Medico-Chirurgi- cales. May 1838, p. 180. (d) P. Humbert and N. Jacwier, F.ss,ai et Ob.servations sur la maniere de reduiro Ics Luxa- tions spontanees ou symptomatiques de I’.Vrticu- lation ileo-iVunorale; metuode applicable .aux lux- ations congenitales et aux lu.xations anciennes par cause externe. Pari-s, 1835; with .\tlas of ulsit0s« («) Ueberspontane und congenitalc Luxation?^ so wie Tiber einon neuen Schenkelliab**>ttr^ Apparat. Slnttgardt* 1842. if) tlaietto MtMlicalede Paris, 1841. No. • (^) IluUetin do IWcadcmic Uoyale de Mcdocine, vol. vii. p. 5, . (/i) .‘V. Sanson; in Rev. deSp<cialitrslS4U r —Journal de Modecine de Lyon, 1841| Nov. p***-