100 ERYSIPELAS. weakness and heaviness of the limbs, listlessness, pain in the region of the stomach, loaded tongue, nasty taste in the mouth, disposition to vomit, more or less active fever, head-ache, wandering, lethargy, or madness,—as a pale uncircumscribed redness of the skin, lading into yellowish, which spreads unequally, is shaded off towards the edge, disappears on pressure with the finger, but returns when the pressure is removed. After the ap- pearance of the erysipelas the fever generally diminishes or disappears ; but every fresh attack is accompanied with fever. The seat of this ery- sipelas never extends beyond the lymphatic-vascular net overspreading the surface of the cutis. The severity of the disease is as various as is the condition of the part first attacked ; it, however, usually subsides under critical discharges of perspiration and urine, and with scaling of the skin ; it never runs into suppuration, but only, with weakly constitutions and other concurrent circumstances, into ulceration and gangrene, in conse- sequence of which the destruction of the surface of the body extends to the parts beneath, and there ensues, not a bounded fluctuating abscess, but an open, wide-spreading, putrid, ulcerating surface. If the scaling of the skin, critically following the erysipelas, be disturbed by moist remedies, by cold and so on, dropsical swelling ensues. This erysipelas is very fugitive; it subsides of itself; but more commonly after the ex ternal use of moist remedies, of cold, or on mental emotions, and so on, it suddenly quits the surface, and causes inflammation of the brain, chest, or belly, madness, convulsions, paralysis, and so on. The true causes of this erysipelas are biliary irritation, disturbance of the functions of the liver, collections of gastric impurities, use of indigestible food, obstruction in the portal system, and a prevalence of peculiar atmosphere and temperature, in consequence of which it seems to be commonly epidemic, especially towards autumn and during summer. Compare Balling, das AkMimatisations-Erysipelas; in Heidelberg Klinischen Annalen, vol. vii. p. 176 The Vesicular Erysipelas (Erysipelas vesiculare, bullosum_) is a variety of this kind of erysipelas, in which either at the onset, or in the course of the disease, vesicles of various size arise, sometimes like a miliary eruption, sometimes like peas or hens’ eggs, which often run together, and, after bursting, form crusts, or, frequently, spreading sores. [(1) The disease here described as true erysipelas by Chelius, is the erythema of English practitioners, and which has been well described by Willan (a) as “ a nearly continuous redness of some portion of the skin, attended with disorder of the constitution, but not contagious” (p. 472;) and Bateman (h) observes, that “ it differs from erysipelas inasmuch as it is a mere rash or efflorescence, and is not accompanied by any swelling, vesication, or regular fever.” (p. 119.) Eayer (c) speaks of it as a su^rficial inflam- mation of the skin, characterized by morbid redness and heat, and the absence, for the most part, of papulse, vesicles and pustules, (vol. i. p. 98.) Elsewhere he obse^es, that “ it is the first stage of a number of cutaneous affections, but when permanent it consti- tutes a disease in itself.” (p. 95.) The vesicular erysipelas, which Chelitjs considers merely as a variety of his erysi- ■ pelas, is a distinct and definite disease, the acute erysipelas of Willan and Bateman, j which “ most frequently occurs in the face, affecting usually one side of it only; some- times it seizes one of the extremities, and in both cases it is ushered in by a smart feverish attack. The colour is higher than in the other species of tlie disease, and the burning heat and tingling in the part are exceedingly distressing. The swelling generally appears on the second night or third day of the fever; the vesications rise on the fourth i and fifth, and break or subside on the fifth or sixth, when the redness changes to a i yellowish hue, and the swelling and fever begin to diminish; and on the eighth day ' (а) On Cutaneous Diseases. Loud., 1808. 4to. according to the arraufjement of Dr. Willak. ■ (б) A Praclical Synopsis of Cutaneous Dise.ases Loudon, 1819. 8to. loth Edition. (c) Traite Theorique et Pratique des Maladies de la Peau. Paris, 1826. 2 \-ols. 8vo.