614 ULCERS; continual loss of the juices, partly from absorption of the bad pus; in the end complete cachexia, with altered pulse, often chills alternating with f heat, difficult breathing, drawing pains in the limbs, dryness or great secre- tion in the ulcer, purulent urine, dropsical swellings, colliquative sweats and diarrhoea. If the ulcer be of long standing, its secretion operates in ■ relation with the other secretions, and the ulcer is to be accepted into the • series of natural secreting organs. This is especially the case in old persons in whom, with long-continued ulcers, the urinary secretion is consider- . ably diminished. Ulcers may, therefore, themselves be considered as useful discharges in certain cases, and belong to the relative well-being of the < patient so affected. 750. The prognosis in ulcers varies:—1. According to the nature of the cause which produces or sustains it. 2. According to the position of the ulcer. Here the importance of the affected part and of the neigh- bouring tissues must be considered. Ulcers in the skin and in fleshy part* heal more readily than those in tendinous parts or glandular organs. - Ulcers in bones are always very intractable. In parts distant from the heart the cure is always difficult. 3. According to the duration and. external form of the ulcer. The older an ulcer is, the more tedious is its cure, and if this be forced, dangerous symptoms may be produced by sup- pression of its usual secretion. The more foul an ulcer is, the more spotty its bottom, the more everted and hardened its edge, the more ill- conditioned the fluid secreted in it, the deeper it penetrates and the larger the destruction of soft parts which it produces, the more difficult is the cure. Round ulcers are generally more tedious in their cure than oval ones. 4. According to the constitution and age of the patient. In youi^ subjects, if the constitution be little affected by the reaction of the ulcers, ! the healing is quicker than in old and already much debilitated persons, 751. The treatment of ulcers in general, depends on the removal of the ' causes which have given rise to them, and on such alteration in the living activity of the ulcerated parts, that by the natural manifestation of the reproductive processes the destruction of continuity may be again re- paired. In the progress of ulcers towards healing three stages are to be noticed: ■ 1. The stage of purification (^Stadium Digestionis, Deter sionis') ; the ulcer loses its foul appearance, and instead of ichor, good pus is secreted. 2. The ' stage of the formation of granulations (^Stadium Incarnationis, Granula- tionis.) 3. The stage of scarring, (^Stadium Cicatrizationis,) in which the granulations become harder, become connected, and are covered with a delicate skin. 752. The treatment must be variously directed, according to the cause of the ulcer, its living disposition, and its form. First, of its treatment in reference to the latter two points. 753. Every ulcer may have an inflammatory, erethetic, or torpid cha- racter. In the inflamed condition of an ulcer which is produced, either by the constitution of the patient or by the improper use of irritating remedies, the parts surrounding the ulcer are swollen, hot, and painful; its ba^ is ' reddened, sensitive, covered with white streaks, and the secretion of pu* especially small. In these cases every local and general irritant must be re- moved, the ulcer covered with lukewarm softening fomentations, poultic^t or mild salves, and in strong constitutions, even general antiphlogistic