672 TREATMENT WITHOUT MERCURY. Tlie reproach, that the mercurial treatment of syphilis first imparts to it a direct destructive character, applies only to the negligent, common use of I this remedy without reference to the constitution, and without correspon- ' i dent mode of living. It is satisfactory in other respects to know, that in ■; i those conditions which especially contraindicate the use of mercury, this treatment may be employed with confidence. For the literature of this subject, see— Fergosson, Observations on the Venereal Disease in Portugal, as affecting the Con- stitutions of the British Soldiers and Natives ; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iv. Rose, Observations on the Treatment of Syphilis, with an account of several cases of that disease in which a cure was effected without the use of Mercury; in Med.- Chir. Trans., vol. viii. p. 349. Gdthrie, Ou the Treatment of the Venereal Disease without Mercury. Hennen John, Observations on the cure of Syphilis without Mercury, &c.; in Edin- burgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xiv. p. 201, 1818. Hill, Saml., M.D., On the Simple Treatment of Syphilis without Mercury ; in Edin- burgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xviii. p. 567. 1822. Thomson, John, Observations on the Treatment of Syphilis without Mercury; in Edinburgh Med, and Surg. Journal, vol. xivi p. 84. Alcock, Observations on the successful Treatment of Syphilis in its primary stage without Mercury; in London Med. Repos., vol. ix. p. 489. Rousseau, J. B. C., M.D., On Venereal Complaints; in American Med. Recorder, vol. iii. p. 171. Phiney ; in New England Journal, vol. ix. p. 235. Ware, ibid. Stevens ; in Med. and Surg. Register of the New York Hospital, part ii. 1820. Todd; in Dublin Hospital Reports, 1810, vol. ii. p. 147. Kruger, Darstellung der jezt in England, iiblichen Behandlung venerischer und Syphilitischer Krankheiten ohne Mercur ; in Horn’s Archiv., 1822, Jan. Feb., p. 99. Hufeland, Bemerkungen iiber die neue Englische Methode, die Syphilis ohne Mercur zu behandeln ; in his Journal, 1822, Sept., p. 20. Wedemeyer; above cited. Huber, Bemerkungen iiber die Geschichte und Behandlung der venerischen Krank- heiten. Stuttgart und Tubingen, 1825. Otto, C., M.D., Ueber die Behandlung der Syphilis ohne Merkur, und die Aus- breitung dieser Heil-methode in Grossbritannien; in Von Graefe und Walthek’s Journal, vol. viii. part i. p. 46. Becker, Ueber die Behandlung der Syphilis ohne Quecksilber, mit Beriichsichtigung der in Grossbritannien angestellten Beobactungen; in Horn’s Archiv. fiir Med. Er- fahrung. Oppenheim, die Behandlung der Lustseuche ohne Quecksilber oder die nicht Mer- curiellen Mittel und Methoden zur Heilung der Lustseuche. Hamburg, 1827. Fricke, Annalen der Chirurgischen Abtheilung des allgemeinen Krankenhauses in Hamburg, vol. i. Hamburgh, 1828. Wilhelm, Clinische Chirurgie; mit. Kupf. Miinchen, 1830. 8vo. vol. i. - ^