453 CONSEQUENT INFLAMMATION OF LUNGS, &c. poriiou 01 lur umi umy renuuu tacic lo — , / a^a however, where adhesion exists, or has subsequently taken place, between lung and the thoracic jo/eHrct, air in small quantities continues to be discharge roug the external orifice, ^whenever the dressings are removed^,) ujitil it is perfectly liealea, without any serious inconvenience to the patient.” (pp. 377, /8.)J 501. Protrusion of a Portion of the Lung in Wounds of the Chest is rare. It cannot arise, as has been falsely held {n)i from expansion of the Inngs, but from tlie air in expiration streaming violently out of the wound, which, as it is partially behind the lungs, forces, by its violent escape, the edge of one or other lobe of the lung into the wound. At least in animals I have never seen any other part protruded {b). If the protru- sion be recent, the lung healthy, and the condition of the wound permit, it must as quickly as possible be gently returned. In general it is ne- cessary to enlarge the wound for this purpose. To prevent its repro- trusion, the wound must be properly closed and covered with a compress, which is to be fastened with a bandage. If the protrusion have existed long, if the protruded part be in a state of gangrene from the constriction, a ligature must be put on its base, and the protruded gangrenous part cut otf in front, or left to itself. [“The sinking of the lung is not,” according to Hennen, “an uniform conse- quence of a penetrating wound of the thorax. We have sometimes ocular pi-oof of this, not only by the close contact in which the lungs lie to the wound, discoverable at first sight, but by protrusions which occasionally happen, and which, in the hands of the older surgeons, were removed by the knife,—a practice now rejected, and gentle pressure substituted.” (p. 378.)] 502. Inflammation of the Lungs and Pleura, which are always to be feared in penetrating wounds of the chest must be prevented or moderated by the strictest antiphlogistic treatment. The patient must be kept in the greatest bodily and mental quiet; he must not speak ; and take only cooling drinks and food. Nitre is to be given internally, attention paid to keeping the bowels open, and repetition of the bleeding as often and as largely as the condition of the patient may seem to require. Inflammation of the lungs and pleura may proceed to infiltration of the lungs with blood, to suppuration, or serous effusion into the cavity of the pleura. The suppuration of the lungs forms an abscess, which empties I itself either by the moutii or into the cavity of the chest. In the latter ! case, and in serous collections in the cavities of the pleura, symptoms of I extravasation appear, and opening the chest becomes necessary. [“ InJIammation of the lung,” says Astlev Cooper, “ is to be guarded against by large and repeated bleedings, determined by the dyspnoea and hardness of the pulse ; but there [is little danger of bleeding too much in one of these cases, as it is an object not only to [diminish the force of the circulation, but the quantity of blood in the pulmonary vessels. [If fusion follows, it is the result of neglected inflammation, or of having closed the jexternal wound too early. In the one case it is a purulent secretion; in the other a Ibloody serum, which produces the dyspnoea some days after the accident. For effusion Imto the chest, it is right to perform the operation for paracentesis thoracis, to draw off’ Ithe pus or bloody serum which has collected. * » * In old persons there is great danger lin fractured ribs with wounded lungs, and I always give a guarded opinion, for I have Iseeu several die from eff’usion of fluid into the cellular tissue of the lung. The greatest (a) Richter, AnfangsgrTinde, vol. iv. p. 441 iMayow, L)e Ruspiratione, Lugd.Batav., liiTl, p. l).l,p. .1. don, 1807. (b) bPiESS, above cited. —Halliday, Observations on Emphysjma. Lon- don, 1807.