TREATMENT OF V/OUNDS 464 preventing tlie escape of the contents of the bowel (and, therefore, many stitclies are always used) ; but by others rather for the purpose of retain- ing the wounded intestine in a position corresponding to the external wound, and for effecting its union with the peritnrieum. Some object to every kind of stitch, and only pass a loop through the mesentery, which Scarpa {a) also forbids. Larrey carefully unites wounds with the glover’s stitch, folds them in opposite directions, and brings them together with two threads of different colours. 525. Of late it has been attempted, by various experiments on brutes, to lay down certain rules for the treatment of wounds of the intestines. In complete division of the intestine Denans (5) introduces into the upper and lower end of the gut a silver or zinc ring, thrusting it inwards 1 about two lines from each end; he then brings the two ends together over a third ring, of which the two springs retain the external rings. The included ends of the intestine mortify, and the rings thereby becoming un- fastened are discharged by stool, after they have united the .serous surfaces in contact. This experiment in the dog has most successful results. Beceard’s practice on brutes, which he has also proposed for men, consists in slipping one end of the intestine within the other, after which he passes a ligature about the external portion of the intestine, near the edge of the wound, and ties it together. The ligature, by the approxima- tion of the parts above and below it, covers at the same time the projecting upper and under pieces of the intestine, by which the serous membrane of both are brought into contact and so retained. The part tied by the liga- ture is, after a few days, cut through, the ligature falls into the hollow of ; the bowel and is passed by stool. JoBERT (c), if the wound be above three lines long, employs the stitch, by which the edges of the wound are so brought together internally that .■ the serous surfaces touch. In complete division of the intestine, after having ascertained which is the upper end, he takes hold of it with the left i hand, and with the right thrusts a straight needle, armed with silk, from within outwards three lines distant from the mouth of the M'ound, and does also the same with a second thread upon the back of the intestine. He then thrusts the under end inwards, introduces the left fore finger, and upon it an assistant passes the needle from within outwards through the i intestine. He then endeavours, by gently drawing, to bring the edges i together, and to introduce the upper within the lower end. The piece of intestine is now retained, the threads drawn together and retained with sticking plaster. After five days the scar is perfected and the threads may be withdrawn. Lembert {d) holds one lip of the wound, whilst he introduces the fore finger into the cavity of the gut, and with the thumb on the external surface presses and pierces it within two lines and a half from the bleeding ed^, allowing the needle to pass about a line between the membranes of the in- testine, and again passes it out a line and a half from the edge. After he has thus fastened on the external surface of the intestine a small piece of the serous and muscular coats, or even of the mucous coat, if the two former be not sufficiently resistant, he takes hold of the opposite edges of (a) Above cited, p. 279.—Scarpa, Siill* Ernie, translated by ishabt. (b) Recucil de la Societe Romaic de Medecine de (d) Kopertoirc (ionorale d Anatomie et dc Iny- Marseille, 1 an. No. I. 1826. sioloqie patholopiquo, vol. ii. Juin 3, 1826. (c) Mcmoires sur lea Plaies du Canal Intestinal. kikp’b Cliirurg. Kupfertaf, plate clxxi. I