DISLOCATION OF THE VERTEBRiE. 774 1011. If the dislocation of an oblique process be left alone, the pain gradually subsides, and the patient has no other inconvenience than an unnatural position of the neck and restricted motion of the head. It is therefore, held most advisable by some (Desault, Boyer, Richehand, and Dupuytren) to leave this dislocation alone, because in attempting .• to reduce it, the spinal marrow may ea.sily be so torn as to cause sudden death (a). This opinion is, however, grounded especially upon an imperfect,', reason, and various cases are known, in which the reduction of this dislocation i has been followed with happy result. Seifert (i) has refuted the reasons » against undertaking the reduction of this dislocation, and has frequently v performed it successfully. The patient should be placed on a low seat, or r sitting on the ground, and his shoulders firmly held back by an assistant. The Surgeon tlien grasps the head, with one hand beneath the chin and i: the other beneath the occiput, makes extension first in the direction of f the dislocation, then in the longitudinal axis of the neck, and when this > seems to have been sufficiently made, he twists the head strongly towards »| the dislocated side. Still the more pressing is the necessity for reduction f in dislocation of both oblique processes of the neck vertebrce, and that this may be effected, with care, the observation of Walther proves.. The patient is to be put in a horizontal position, held up by three assist- ants, one of whom makes counter-extension on the pelvis, a second draws < the shoulders back, and when the trunk is thus properly fixed, a third f assistant grasps the head and makes extension, first in the direction of the e dislocation, afterwards in the natural longitudinal axis of the neck, that is, v he first pulls the head pretty forcibly back by gradually lengthening the e neck, and then turns it backwards. But when the extension in this direc- tion has attained a certain extent, the head must be brought into its natu- ■ rally straight position, by undiminished and still successively increasing r. extension. Guerin (c) reduced a seventh mouths’ dislocation of the second vertebra of the neck k upon the third. 1012. Dislocation of the oblique processes of the back vertebrce cannot t happen, nor dislocation of the bodies of neck-vertebrce, on account of the e breadth of their joint-surfaces, the quantity and thickness of their liga- ments, the strength of the muscles surrounding them, and the slight motion ol with which each vertebra is endowed. Only when the bodies of the cer- ^ tebrcB are broken can they be dislocated ; but then so great violence e operates that symptoms of pressure and concussion of the spinal marrow i accompany it. All the cases described as dislocations of the back and loin r. vertebrce, are fractures of those bones, or simple concussion, or some other i injury of the spinal marrow. In consequence of the form and connexions s of the bodies of the vertebrce, every dislocation must cause death. Dupuytren has collected several cases in which dislocation was accompanied with ^ fracture; in one case separation of the bodies of the vertebrce occurred from tearing of '» the intervertebral substance, without any fracture. In all these cases death followed • the simultaneous injury of the spinal marrow. . From what has been said, it may be collected, how those cases are to be thought ^ ' in which, with some projection observable after the operation of violence uj»n the * spine, the patient cannot sit upright, and so on, it has been supposed that by laying the body over a tub or any round body, the common dislocation could be reduced. BovCT ^ has also observed on this point, that in violent bending of the spine, the upper and : (n) Petit-Radel, Dictionnaire de CUirurgie; In Encyclopedie Metliodique. (A) Ueher die prognoatische Bedentiing thera- peutiaclie Behan Jlung der Halswirbel verrenkaa- ^ gen ; in Rost’s .Magazin, vol. ixxiv. p. 419. (<;} Revue Mcdicale, August, 1840, p. 276.