142 PUNCTURE OF TONSILLAR ABSCESS. deep-seated; but fluctuation, generally obscure indeed, must be felt, before we presume to thrust an instrument into the tumour. If this point be not fully ascertained, a polvDus may be misUiken for an abscess of the tonsil.” (p. 255.) ‘ Burns considers that the bursting of a tonsillar abscess is attended with much danger. He says:—“ Whenever the abscess bursts, the mouth and fauces are filled by a gush of matter, every obstruction to the free entrance of the air is suddenly removed, the patient fetches an involuntary and deep inspiration, air and matter rush together into "the trachea and death, from suflTocation, is almost the immediate consequence.” And, in support of this statement, he mentions the case of a strong, active, young man who thus lost his life : “ He had been complaining for a few days of a sore throat, for which he had consulted his surgeon, who had employed the usual remedies. The inflammation terminated in suppuration ; the abscess enlarged, till, at length, the tumour occupied almost entirely the fauces ; yet, ten minutes before his death, he was walking about the house, restless indeed anxious, and gasping for breath. The bursting of the abscess and death followed each other so rapidly, that no measures could be taken to prevent the latter event. The cause of death was not conjectured in this instance. The body was examined, and the trachea found deluged with purulent matter. To prevent a similar accident, it would be advis- able, where the tumour is large, and the difficulty of breathing great, to puncture the ab- scess as we would do a hydrocele. Were the matter evacuated through a cauula, there would be no risk of its finding way into the windpipe, and, if the stilet were made to pro- ject only a little beyond the canula, the trocar may be as safely used as any other instru- ment.” (p. 257, 8.) In most cases of tonsillar abscess, the effort of vomiting excited by emetics is gene- rally sufficient to burst the walls and discharge the pus; but, if this treatment be ineffectual, and the patient’s breathing be much interfered with, it is better to open the abscess, for which Allan Burns gives the following directions:—“ One who is familiar with the parts in connexion with the tonsil, will, in entering the knife into an abscess here, take care not to direct its point in the line of the angle of the jaw; for, he is well aware, that if he do this, he may injure a large artery. He will push the instrument into the front of the cyst and carry it directly backwards, as if he intended to cutoff a segment of the tumour; if he follow this course, and transfix the abscess, the worst which can happen will be injury of the back part of the pharynx, a trivial accident when compared with the effects resulting from opening a large blood-vessel.” (p. 257.) I think, however, that a gum-fleam is the most convenient instrument; its edge should be rested against the enlarged gland, as near the mesial line of the body as possible, to penetrate the swelling and then moved vertically and gently up and down, the handle of the instrument being held like a pen, till the abscess is penetrated, which in general is done quickly, and immediately the pus appears the fleam should be withdrawn. It is recommended, very properly, that the incision or puncture should be made directly back- wards or from without, inwards and backwards, to avoid puncturing tlie internal carotid artery which might be easily done if the knife or fleam were thrust outwards. The student is always very properly exhorted to puncture tonsillar abscess with great caution, for fear of wounding the carotid artery. But, although this operation must be often cai’elessly and clumsily enough performed, yet dangerous bleeding is not so fre- quent as might be expected; and I have only been able to collect the following authentic accounts:— PoRTAi. (a) mentions a case in which, in performing this operation with a pharyngo- tome, “ a dexterous surgeon of Montpellier had the misfortune to open a large artery, and see the patient perish of so severe a haemorrhage that nothiug could arrest it.” (p. 509.) Allan Burns also says:—“In this country, (Scotland,) I have been informed that a surgeon, in opening a tonsillitic abscess, actually did plunge the knife into the carotid.' I need hardly add that he lost his patient before he could suppress the bleeding.” (p. 256.) My late colleague T'vrrell was accustomed to mention, in his Surgical Lectures, a case to which he was fetched by a practitioner, who, having punctured an abscess in the tonsil gland, the wound was immediately followed by severe bleeding, and the patient was dead before he could reach the house. Sir Bknjamin Brodie informs me that he is cognizant of two cases in which deatli from bleeding ensued after the puncture of ton-' sillar abscess. From the puncture of an immature tonsillar abscess, alarming haemorrhage may occur, without, however, destroying life; for the following instance of wluch I am indebted to' my friend La'wrence :— Case.—“ In a gentleman labouring under cyuanche tonsillaris, a premature puncture was made, with the expectation of evacuating matter. A most profuse bleeding ensued, (n) Cours d'Anatomie Mi’dicnlc, vol. v.