134 TREATMENT OF BOIL. grade; patches of injection in the digestive mucous membrane, other parts being pale; and enlargement of the mesenteric glands. * * • The perforations are always uniform in character, although varying somewhat in size ; they are peculiar and hardly ever modified from the state described; they appear analogous to the perforating phagedenic or atonic ulcers sometimes seen in the stomach, (pp. 1054, 55.) Gukusent further remarks, that “ this disease is evidently' allied to the boil in its first and second stages by its form and mode of opening: the softening and sinking of the tumour after suppura- tion, and the abscence of core, approximate it to certain kinds of atonic abscess; but the other characters do not permit their arrangement together. Finally, it is distin- guished from all other cutaneous inflammations by the round and regular form of the ulcer which succeeds it. The kind of perforation has something specific; it can only be compared to the spontaneous opening of the atonic abscesses sometimes noticed on the sides of the neck, in which serous bad pus has long separated the skin before it softens it. The opening of those abscesses, often very large, and increasing as rapidly as atonic furuncle, independently of their difference in the first stage, never exhibit those regular ulcers seen in atonic furuncle.” (p. 338.)] 115. The boil often occurs in healthy persons without any apparent cause. It frequently appears in convalescence after severe fever, is not unfrequently critical; after suppressed perspiration from neglect of clean- liness of the skin, in persons who live irregularly ; during inen.struation, and in the spring. Boils often appear, probably dependent on the state of the atmosphere, especially in young persons, in great number, at greater or less distance, in different parts, and are commonly accompanied with severe fever. After the misuse of mercury, persons with deteriorated juices, syphilitic, scrofulous and scorbutic, are frequently subject to boils. In these cases they are often chronic, attended with little pain and tedious in suppurating. 116. The treatment consists in furthering suppuration, for which pur- pose, in very painful boils, softening poultices with the addition of henbane, bruised poppy heads, or, in moderate inflammation, roasted onions, flour and honey, the empl. de cicut. c. ammoniaco, the ernpl. diachylon, comp. are used. In most cases the boil opens itself, or it may be opened with the lancet, the slough or core separates by the use of softening bread poultices, which should be continued till all hardness subsides. If any hardness remain, it is usually only dispersed by a fresh inflammation and suppu- ration, which we must endeavour to excite. If the boil be accompanied with very painful tension, this may be relieved and the entire course of the disease cut short by an incision throughout its whole length, and the use of softening poultices. [In treating boils, as in the treatment of carbuncles, it is certainly best to cut across them at once, freely and deeply; the momentary pain is severe, but the relief from the violent pain under which the patient suffers is almost immediate; the tension of the part is at once relieved, the cellu<ar tissue being enabled to discharge the serum witli which, intermingled with adhesive matter, it is loaded, and thus its destruction is arrested, and the increase of the core put a stop to, and not unfrequently even does it entirely disappear, so as to render it doubtful whether it have been formed. Almost immediately after the slough or core has been thrown off, a very free flow of serum takes place from its boun- dary walls, and, in strong constitutions, within a few hours, the large hole from which the slough had escaped, and the surrounding swelling disappear, by Uie dropping down of the skin and cellular tissue to its own natural situation, leaving only an aperture in the skin which speedily scabs and heals. It is a very common but very improper practice to use stimulants, either in the shape of poultices or plasters. Generally moist warmth, kept up by poultices, by steaming, or wet flannel covered with oiled silk, is most grateful to the patient’s feelings; but, in some cases, dry warmth, either with repeated hot flannel, or chamomile flowers in a flannel bag, gives most ease before the boil is opened.—.1. F. S.] 117. General treatment in boils is rarely necessary ; if connected with gastric impurities, or with acidity, as a cause, these must be corrected by suitable remedies in addition to the local treatment. .