605 CLEFT SOFT PALATE. .1 cedle curve, being caught with a hook or forceps, is drawn forwards and completely arough; tlie needle itself still unthreaded, is.then drawn back, its point caiTied behind i: he other edge, and having been thrust through, the thread on the outside of the needle -I :urve is drawn forwards out of the needle-eye, which being thus set at liberty the needle ) 5 withdrawn entirely, the tlireads passed through each other and tied, by thrusting down ■i -etween them a little plate six lines long, with a notch at each end for the threads to ii .un in, two lines broad, and fixed on a stem four inches long, with a handle. Warren (a) -j iroceeded in a similar manner, not only in the case he describes, but also in another on fi vhich he operated some years previously. “ The principal difficulty he met with in u his operation was in disentangling the ligature from the hook after it had perforated •c he palate, and he therefore proposed a curved needle with a movable point, which after a laving been passed through the soft palate, can be separated from the stem, unthreaded, (I nd having been refixcd and rethreaded with the hinder end of the thread, is passed fl hrough the other edge of the palate, and separated from the stem as before. As to the sj Ejections to this treatment, see Schmidt (b). Wernecke used a needle with an eye d n front, and a whalebone handle. (Lesenberg’s (c) needle is similar to that of ■t. Ooniges, but its point] can be covered with a guard. Krimer (d) also uses a similar 4 leedle, which can be closed. ^ The instruments for drawing the knot have also been varied by the above-mentioned il iractitioners. Wernecke carried the knot up to the palate with two small grooved 9 irobes, and cuts off the ends of the thread. Ebel used small tubes, and Doniges the il ipecial knot-tier, already mentioned. t Dieffenb.ach by means of a nearly straight needle, into the hinder hollow part'of 1; vhich a leaden thread has been introduced, unites the cleft by drawing the wire il ogether; cuts it off a few lines distant from the soft palate, and turns the twisted ends d jpwards, so as not to irritate the root of the tongue. The lead wire allows loosening 4 md much tightening. Dieffenbach also proposes to effect the union with a pair of 'I jeculiar forceps. Hrcbt’s palate-holder, is similar to Seine’s lip-holder (e). K Schwerdt’s cleft needle for the introduction of the thread (/). i Bebard (h) thrusts in the needle from before backwards.—Smith’s needle (gf) is long ■9 ance-shaped, and furnished with a notch for the reception of the ligature. [But ciVIiiTTER objects to it, “first, as being mounted on a straight handle, which renders it snore difficult to introduce its point at the proper places; and secondly, the difficulty if disengaging the thread, which may be drawn back along with the needle in the Kittempts of the Surgeon to disengage the latter from the margin of the palate.” (p. 9.)] 4 Aecock (t) operated at intervals, so that he made raw, and united only one part of 4 -he cleft; in one case he only effected perfect union after five operations: in the first !-bur he used the interrupted, and in the last the twisted suture. Hartig (A) effects the union by means of a palate-cramp {fibula sen retinaculum oalati.) ( Liston (Z) introduces a double ligature on a curved needle fixed in a handle, through the front of the palate curtain, “ the noose of which is caught by a blunt hook and pulled out into the mouth whilst the instrument is withdrawn. A second and smaller ligature is carried through opposite to this, and by means of this second thread the first 9|and double one is brought through ” (p. 503) Mutter uses a much curved “ needle 11 half an inch in length and mounted on a cylindrical neck, a portion of which is held in S the grasp of the porte, (Schwerdt’s,) and the other part, made rough, is intended to be i|^^grasped by the forceps of an assistant. The cutting edge of the needle being wider ' the diameter of its neck, will make an opening large enough for the easy trans- mission of the ligature. The forceps too may be improved, by causing them to close > with a spring instead of a catch.” (,p. 9.)] a FmoussoN, of King’s College Hospital, has proposed a new mode of staphyloraphy i has successfully treated two cases by it. “ The principle of this new proposal is to I divide those muscles of the palate which have the effect of drawing the flaps from each •tother, and widening the gap between them when they contract; so that the stretched koCTii 1^7^" ^tapliyloraphia quffidam. Kos- i (<i) V0.V Graefe and von Wauther’s Journal, vol X. p. 622. I (e)ln vonGraefe and VON Waltheb's Journal, vol.ix. B. 323. d1. Hi. f. 9. uutouer, iSiW. (/) Above cited. (/i) Besclireibung eines neuen Apparates ■vol X. p. 622. (f) In VON Graefe and i ■vol.ix. j». 323,pl. Hi. f.2. Vereinizungdesgespaltenen Gaumens ohne Naht. Braunschweig, 1841. (0 Practical Surgery, London. 1837. 8vo.