319 vp:ins. the artery accompanying tlie vein, and, in this case, the manner in which the blood spirts out may easily deceive at tlie first moment, but compres- sion above and below the wound will always determine the diagnosis. 304. Bleeding from the smaller veins usually stops of itself, if the patient be kept quiet, the edges of the wound brought together, and the circulation of the blood not disturbed. The clot which forms in the mouth of the wounded vessel prevents the escape of the blood, and, with the healing of the outer wound, that of the vein also takes place. But the bleeding is more severe, and requires the assistance of art, according to the condition of the wound, tlie size of the vein, and the existing obstacles to the return of the blood, such as the depending position of the wounded part, pressure upon the vein between the wound and the heart, exertion of the patient, by which either the muscles of the wounded part or those of the chest are con- tracted, and interruption to the return of the blood ensues ; injuries of the large veins, as the internal jugular, the subclavian, the femoral, are soon fatal. 305. Compression is the usual remedy in venous bleeding; the ligature is seldom employed. The pressure must be made on the wounded part itself, and not to such extent as completely to flatten the walls of the vein, which would entirely check the return of blood, but only in a slight degree to support them. Especial attention must always be paid, at the same time, to the due freedom of respiration. The ligature must be applied, first on the lower, and then on the upper end, if the blood flow from the latter by regurgitation. It has the disadvantage of putting a complete stop to the return of the blood, and may also give rise to inflammation of the vein ; it should, therefore, only be used when compression is not pos- sible. Wounds Avhich comprise the half or two-thirds of a vein, produce severe, and even fatal, bleeding, especially if the position of the part draw the wounded edges asunder. In this case, a better position and slight pressure often stop the bleeding; but frequently it will not cease till the vein has been completely divided. Venous bleeding, in extirpating tu- mours, or in amputations, usually stop when the patient ceases to scream, or by letting him frequently take a deep breath. If, however, bleeding from a large vein should continue, it is necessary to tie it; in such cases, for instance in amputations, in which I have frequently tied large veins, I have never observed any symptoms of phlebitis. Compare Dopuytren (a). [Venous bleeding in operations is sometimes very severe, especially in the removal of direased breaste. Usually it is stopped by pressure on the divided veins, but sometimes this is insufficient, if the vessels be very large, and the cellular tissue have become brawny, so that the apertures will not come together, but remain open like holes in a A case of this kind happened to me some years ago, in which the venous bleed- sieve. mg was so sudden and severe, and the number of bleeding veins so great, that the woman, who was advanced in life, died under the operation. Some thought that air might have' entered the veins and caused death ; but I feel sure that the sudden loss of a large quan- tity of blood destroyed her. Should I ever meet with another case in which venous bleeding from the breast were so free, I am quite determined I would tie every vein however tedious the operation might be rendered. ’ With regard to venous bleeding in amputation of the limbs, I never hesitate to tie the temoral vein, if it will not fall together and close; and I have never Ibund inconve- menre from it but in a single case. The extension of inflammation along the vein is I think, from my own experience, scarcely to be expected. In the case of axillary aneunsm mentioned at p. 307, my friend Green put two ligatures upon the external jn^lar vein, and divided it between them, to obtain more room to get at the arterv ana no inflammation ensued.—j. f. s. (a) As above.