RECTAL FISTULA. 728 considered to be contra-indicated, when it seems to be a vicariously .secreting i organ, by whicli otlier ailments are lessened or removed, (here the aimov- < ance of the patient may be relieved by enlarging tlie external opening of *■' the fistula, and by cleanliness, and the cure must be proceeded in at : least not without careful preparation, according to the circumstances of ; i tiie patient,) and if it be connected with other diseases of the pelvic bones, » of the bladder, of the prostate gland, of the vagina and so on, or with > t. phthisis, or incurable disease of the liver, which cannot be removed by the I operation for fistula. Those rectal fistulas are to be considered incurable r » which are very old, have many openings, are connected with ruptures • f and callosities, where too much must be done to destroy them, and where the internal opening is out of reach. If the fistula have existed a long • f while, the operation must not be undertaken without the introduction of f » issues; and also if the fistula and the neighbouring parts be much swollen i i and inflamed, the operation must be withheld till these symptoms are put t aside. [The following observations of Brodie should always be home in mind when con- - c sidering the propriety of operating for fistula:—“ In those cases in which a. fistula in ana i occurs in connexion with some organic disease of the lungs, or liver, I advise yon never '?• > to imdertake the cure of the fistula. No good can arise from an operation under these ^ * circumstances; but if you perform it, one of two things will happen; either the sinm, . i although laid open, will never heal, or, otherwise, it will heal as usual, and the visceral i i disease will make more rapid progress afterwards, and the patient will die sooner than ; w he would have done if he had never fallen into your hands.” (p. 186.) And Astley t Cooper also observes:—“ The Surgeon often brings discredit upon himself by operating : , i in these cases, in the last stage of phthisis, when no operation ought to be performed, and ; i when it is impossible that the disease can be cured: therefore that death which is the ■ . result of pulmonary disease, is falsely attributed to the fistula in ano.” (p. 328.)] 929. The abscesses which form in the neighbourhood of the rectum are ■ ; either phlegmonous, defined and accompanied with throbbing pain, or they ) arise gradually in form of little not very painful knobs, or they occur i after the protrusion of the rectum, with simultaneous collection of fiecal ^ matter and pus, are of great extent, and commonly produce, especially with | persons of bad constitutions, wasting suppuration and gangrenous destruc- tion. In the former case leeches and soothing applications are to be em- ( ployed, and the abscess should be opened early with the lancet, to prevent ; the destruction of the cellular tissue in the neighbourhood of the gut; ' and if the canal do not communicate with the gut, it may be hoped that i simply by the covering bandage and the use of soothing applications, or i in old fistulas of this kind, by injections exciting inflammation, the cure ; may be effected. In hard and little painful swellings, soothing poultices and dissolving plasters may be used ; they should be opened when soft and the I further treatment be such as in the former case. But if in internal blind fistula the outer wall of the rectum be exposed to some extent, the division of the partition between the fistulous passage and the gut is requisite. When a large abscess has formed about the anus, if it have arisen from tearing of the wall of the rectum, a sufficiently large opening (but not a i transverse cut, which would at the same time divide the wall of the gut) must be made, attention paid to the free escape of the pus, to the necessary means for supporting the powers, and afterwards when the fistulous passage has become more contracted, the division of the partition between the j fistula and rectum must be proceeded with. (Sabatier) (a). | (/i) Mcdedno Opi'ratoiro. Nouv. Edit., 1822, vol. ii. p. 309. ‘