272 DISTINCTION OF of tlie cartilages of the bones. Hence arises the earlier division of white swelling of tlie knee-joint into rheumatic and scrofulous. In tlie former the disease of the knee is more general, and the swelling occurs more quickly after the setting in of tlie pain ; tiie synovial membrane, and the soft parts of tlie knee, are primarily attacked : in the latter, the pain is fixed to one particular spot, and tlie swelling, which retains the form of the knee, takes place later, and is more hard. This difference in the swellings of the knee is'confirmed by examination of the diseased joint after death. The soft and hard parts of the joint are often completely changed, and so connected together by a tough thick lymph, that they form a perfectly fungous mass. The synovial membrane is often inflamed and ulcerated, and the cartilage at the same time dege- nerated into a red spongy mass. All the soft parts of the joint are often thickened, as is also the cellular tissue on the external surface of the caji. sular ligament. The cavity of the joint is filled with brownish flocculent fluid. The cartilaginous surfaces are often partially or entirely destroyed, and the bones are carious. The head of the shin-bone is more usually affected with caries than the joint-end of the thigh-bone. The soft parts of the joint may be completely destroyed, and the carious ends of the bones exposed. [The following is a brief account of the symptoms hy w'hich diseases of the knee may be distinguished:— In synovial inflammation of the knee-joint, the swelling, which at first depends only [ on the increased quantity of fluid contained within, is readily and “ distinctly felt to undulate when pressure is made alternately by the two hands placed, one on each side. I When the inflammation has existed for some time the fluid is less perceptible than j before, in consequence of the synovial membrane having become thickened, or from the I effusion of lymph on its inner or outer surface; and, in many cases, where the disease ; has been of long standing, although the joint is much swollen, and symptoms of inflam- t matiou still exist, the fluid in its cavity is scarcely to be felt As the swelling consiste > more of solid substance, so the natural mobility of the joint is in a greater degree im- • | paired. * * * The swelling is not that of the articulating ends of the bones, and there- i fore it differs from the natural form of the joint;” * * * depending “ in great measure ; i on the situation of the ligaments and tendons which resist the distension of the synovial I i membrane, in certain directions, and allow it to take place in othersthus, “ the ■. swelling” says Buodie, “ is observable on the anterior and lower part of the thigh, under •; the extensor muscles, where there is only a yielding cellular structure between those • f muscles and the bone. It is also often considerable in the space between the ligament: • of the patella and the lateral ligaments; the fluid collected in the cavity causing the ’ i fatty substance to protrude in this situation, where the resistance of the external parts ; i is less than elsewhere.” (pp. 24, 5.) The swelling from synovial effusion is easily'distinguishable from the large fluid ; swellings of the bursa of the knee-cap by the latter being always in front and of a r rounded form, whilst the former is on the sides of the knee-cap. It may, however, be; confused with collections of fluid in the hamstring tendons, which sometimes occur, . as those tendons pass on the sides of the joint to their insertion in the leg; but the ' nature of the latter is shown by their more circumscribed extent, and by not undulating; through the joint.—j. f. s. The pain in this complaint, though increased by motion, and by pressure with the. Ungers, is not, at least in the early stage, increased by pressing the cartilages together; but when adhesive matter is effused, and the cartilage is ulcerating or absorbing, there • is pain more or less severe according to the mischief going on. In tlie pulpj' disorgan-r ization of Buodie, as already mentioned, (p. 217,) the disease begins with a slight depW' of stiffness and swelling, without pain, and the symptoms gradually inerrase. TkC' form of the swelling is “ less regular, is soft and elastic, and gives the sensation as if it. contained fluid j * * * but if both hands be employed, one on each side, the absence of '• fluid is distinguished by the want of fluctuation.” (p. 103.) There is not generally i much pain till abscesses begin to fonn, and the cartilages ulcerate. The progress of the i disease is slow.