FKACTURES OF THE COLLAR-BONE 552 is to be brouglit forwards upwards and inwards, and retained by a bandage ij in that position. A moistened compress is to be laid on both sides of the 5 I broken collar-bone, and upon the fracture a pa.steboard splint, fastened i with a bandage, and carried into the sound arm-pit, over the breast | I the injured shoulder, upon the back of tlie arm to the elbow, and thence 1 •! again to the sound arm-pit, over the back, the injured shoulder and front | ) of the arm beneath the elbow, over the back to the sound arm-pit, and | il when these turns have been repeated, the bandage is to be expended in i circular turns around the trunk. The fore-arm is to be supported in a | sling. The apparatus of Boyek effects the same as Desault’s, but is | preferable for its simplicity, its easier application, and that it does not j compress the chest so much. The pad is held up by two bands which are j tied upon the sound shoulder, and the arm fastened in a proper position by a body-girdle. But even both these apparatus have great deficiencies, J If they be applied so tightly that the broken ends are kept in close contact, they cannot be endured, on account of the constriction of the chest; in women with full bosom, they cannot be applied at all. They also yield easily, must be very often re-applied, and commonly there remains, long : after the cure, a decided stiffness of the whole limb. Therefore many f Surgeons (Dupuytren, Cloquet, Salamon, Ja:ger) employ a cushion ■ only with bands, put the arm in a sling, and fasten it to the chest with i| a circular bandage partially around the fore-arm, and some turns over the I injured shoulder. It is considered also that the close union of the fractuii) • of the collar-bone depends less on the apparatus, than on the position and direction of the fracture (therefore in spite of the most careful application . of this apparatus, some deformity often remains) ; and, finally, that in i children, on account of the yielding of the ribs, these apparatus have not any steadiness. The proper support of the arm must therefore be effected I by a sling, or by an arm-tray, by which the arm is at once kept properly to the body, as the most simple and fitting treatment, and so much the more, as it is unaccompanied with inconvenience, and the cure is as good : as with many other apparatus. After numerous experiments, I prefer " Brefeld’s apparatus before all others, (in which both shoulders are ■ brought together towards a board provided with a thick covering, placed upon the back, and to which they can be drawn back by padded straps,) on account of its simplicity, its easier application, and the little incon- - venience it causes. Whether by the pasteboard apparatus, in any way ap- - plied, (Meyer,) any advantage could be gained, is matter of great doubt, after the preceding review of the various apparatus. [With Chelius’s general observations on the treatment of fractured collar-lwne I fully agree, but I prefer merely bending the arm close to the side, with a thick pad in the arm-pit to keep the shoulder out and prevent the broken ends of the bone riding over each other; the elbow should also be supported and brought a little forward by a sh^ sling tied upon the sound shoulder. This sling helps to keep up the outer end of the fracture in its proper place. I do not like any of the apparatus in which the shoulders are drawn back by band.iges, as these invariably annoy the patient, often cause excoriation, and are never kept long in place, the person continually wriggling them off to relieve himself of the pressure.' J. F. S.] 641. At first the apparatus never should be tightly applied, but sub- sequently it may be made tighter. For the first days after its application the patient should be kept quiet, but afterwards he may go about. It is however to be observed, that a sitting posture, in which the patient can