82 INFLAMMATION, GENERAL AND 42. The Prognosis of inflammation is very various ; it depends specially on its severity and character, on its causes, on the constitution of the subject, and on the parts in which it is situated. 43. The Treatment of inflammation generally purposes to effect its resolution, except in certain critical inflammations, in wounds with much contusion, and in furuncles. The first indication is the removal of the cause, if it continue to operate. If the inflammation be not very great, this alone is often suffi- cient. If the cause cannot be removed, or the inflammation have ad- vanced to a certain extent, the plan of treatment includes all the means which are implied in the term antiphlogistic mode of cure. In those inflammations which are connected with much fever we must employ bleeding, nitrate of potash, and other antiphlogistic remedies, with cooling diet and rest. If the inflammatory symptoms are thereby diminished, calomel is specially useful to hasten the absorption of the lymph effused into the cellular tissue, and to prevent its coagulation. If the inflamma- tion have an erethitic character, if it be accompanied with greatly increased sensibility, we endeavour after the above-mentioned antiphlogistic treat- ment to lessen it by opium in connexion with proper antiphlogistic means, such as mercury, hyoscyamus, and hydrocyanic acid, laurel water, and so on. If gastric impurities exist, they must be removed by vomiting and purging. In malignant inflammation the treatment must particularly depend on the kind of accompanying fever; the antiphlogistic treatment is then to be used only with circumspection. If the inflammation have a specific character, if it be connected with a dyscratic affection, we must act according to the degree of the inflammatoiy reaction, first on the anti- phlogistic plan and then against the dyscracy: the antiphlogistic treatment, however, in this case, requires to be pursued with moderation. [John Hunter, in treating “of the methods of resolution by constitutional means,” makes many very excellent remarks on blood-letting, the object of which, as just men- tioned, is to produce the contraction of the vessels, and which is always to go “ hand in hand” with the soothing or lessening irritability, or the action of dilatation, by means of sedatives, relaxants, and stimulants, sudorifics, &c. Neither of these proceed- ings “ can possibly lessen the original inflammatory dispositionthey may, however, “ in some sense be reckoned direct; for, whatever will produce the action of contraction in the vessels, is counteracting the action of the dilatation. Lessening the power of action belonging to any disposition can only lessen or protract the effects, which, how- ever will be of singular service, as less mischief will be done, and it will often give the disposition time to wear itself out. Means employed on this principle, should be such as give the feel of weakness to the constitution; which will affect the part, and will make the vessels contract; but this practice should not be carried so far as to produce the sense of too much weakness, for then the heart acts with ^eat force and the arteries dilate. Bleeding, then, as a general principle, is to be put in practice: but this must be done with judgment; for I conceive the effects of bleeding to be very extensive. Besides the loss of any quantity of blood being felt, in proportion to the quantity lost, an universal alarm is excited, and a greater contraction of the vessels ensues, than simply in proportion to this quantity, in consequence as it would appear of a sympa- thetic affection with the part bleeding. “ As many patients that seem to require bleeding have been already bled, it may not be improper to inquire how they bear or are affected by bleeding; for, certainly, all constitutions (independently of every other circumstance) do not bear this evacu- ation equally, and it is probable, that its effects on inflammation may be nearly in the same proportion; if so, it becomes a very useful caution; for, although the loss of blood may as a general principle be set down as a weakener, and probably tlie greatest, as we can kill by such means, yet the loss of certain quantities in many con- stitutions is necessary for health; this is either when there is a disposition to make too much blood, or a constitution that cannot bear the usual quantity; in such, when