161 KINDS OF GONORRHCEA. It will be here convenient to notice the pudendal discharges which occur very fre- quently in female children soon after birth, which are generally purulent, and produce redness and swelling of the external generative organs, and not seldom accompanied with excoriation and sloughing of the skin, which may, as I have seen it, more than ouce or twice, extend to the upper part of the thighs, in consequence of the irritating nature of the discharge. Locock says;—“ It is very apt to occur also during dentition, and not only when the first set of teeth are in progress, but at the time of the second set, and even when the dentes sapiential are irritating the system at a mature age.” (p. 39.) 1 do not recollect to have noticed it at these latter periods, but have no doubt of the correctness of Locock’s observation. A knowledge of this occurrence is highly necessary, and is very properly insisted on, as there is no doubt that many men have suffered capital punishment from the ignorance of practitionei-s on this point. And, even now, with our better knowledge, it is by no means unfrequent to hear of medical men giving a decided opinion, which is almost certainly erroneous, upon the gonorrhoeal character of pudendal discharges, and thus jeoparding the character, if not the life, of an innocent person. On all occasions of giving opinion or evidence in such cases the practitioner is bound to speak with extreme caution, and only upon the most incontestible proof, which, on the mere examination of the parts, it is almost impossible for him to attain, to make a positive statement as to the gonorrhoeal character of the discharge. It is also to be remembered that an epidemic vaginal catarrh pened, as mentioned by Dr. Pekcival (a), at Manchester, in 1791 mackintosh (c), at Edinburgh: bv Oldham, in 181.5; and by Capuron (e). has occasionally hap- ; by Dr. Perriar (6), Kinder Wood (d), at 159. As to the nature of gonorrhosa (1) and its connexion with the venereal disease the following distinctions are laid down: 1. Gonorrho3a arising without infection, from external injury, for in- stance, hard riding, blows upon the urethra, onanism, too frequent connexion introduction of foreign bodies into the urethra and so on ; or from interned disturbance, ^ herpetic, or gouty humours, repelled eruptions, suppressed secretions and so on (2). 2. Gonorrhoea depending on peculiar contagious matter, the influence of which, however, does not spread beyond the urethra (3) 3. Gonorrhoea which has a venereal origin, rather as consequence of S utXn ^h"t- T “ '’""‘I’’ or with dise^e (4) gonorrhoea may pass into general venereal [p) The only kinds of gonorrhoea which can be admitted are twr> tUo i bemgna and gonorrhoea virulenta, “ the terms benigna and vSleZa ”1s’Lawr3w^a two veam if^ Wthy with the Tutting of i tomh^''^ External Signs of -- - - ~ h^PPened t5 2?U 1 * : Him iiiusiraiions ton E«"<=ctions. Warring- olf ii an<l Practice of Pliysic, (rfi Wv of 2 vols. 8vo. ’ V At ^ alfection of the Puden- » Olrf, I, *AA*o napptruuu yorvrA Children; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol.Ai. 1830. n \ Sr ‘x? Venereal Disease. M