468 STITCHING OF always more or less separated by the retraction of the longitudinal fibres of the bowel, especially when the stitches begin to ulcerate. 527. To these objections it may be replied, that the assertion, that when ‘ stitching is employed on wounds of the intestine its result is almost always fatal, is proved by frequent experience to be unfounded (a). It must also be admitted, as an advantage of the stitching of the wound of the intestine, that though no immediate connexion of the edges of the wound be producefl, still great separation is prevented by its adhesion with the peritoneum whereby the duration of the cure is shortened, the possible danger of stop- page of the passage of the contents of the bowels from adhesion of the angle of the intestine, and also the danger of artificial anus is prevented. The earlier generally accepted opinion that wounds of the intestine do not always unite by the immediate connexion of their edges, is denied by Larrey (5), who, resting on his own observation, asserts, that the union of a divided intestine, as in other parts, is effected by the projection of the opposed vessels, and so much the more quickly the closer the edges are united and kept in contact. The intestine, indeed, unites with the sur- rounding parts ; but these adhesions are merely temporary, nature subse- quently divides them by degrees, in order to restore to the intestine its peristaltic action. [“ The grand objections to the practice of returning a wounded bowel without a suture are,” says Travers, “ the heavy drain upon the system if, as is probable, the evacuation be alimentary; the irritation occasioned by the continual discharge, and the tardiness of the healing process ; the danger of future impediment to the free course of the matters from a permanent angularity of the adhering fold, or the encroachment of the parietes i upon the tube in healing; and lastly, of future prolapse and even artificial anus, from * the actual deficiency of the paries intestinalis, corresponding to the extent of the cicatrix, j The objections now stated do not lie against the suture. The matters, with but slight ! inten-uption, such as often occurs from other causes, take their accustomed route; the nourishment of the patient is not withdrawn; the wound is reduced to a simple muscular ' wound and may be united, in part at least, by the first intention. The intestine beingf ( truly and directly reduced, recovers positiou and function; its cylinder is perfect of itself, and not formed by the walls of the abdomen.” (pp. 185, 86.) “ It is not the kind of suture employed,” Travers further remarks, “ but the applica- tion of it conformably to the principles of its operation, which is the object of real importance. The leading objection raised against the glover’s snture is the difficulty of withdrawing it without injury to the recent adhesions; and the attempt at improvement upon it uniformly consists in the removal of this difficulty. It was upon the close con- nexion of the injured gut with the parietes exclusively that the union was supposed to depend, and it was not hinted before the time of Mr. Benjasiin Bell that the suture would be discharged into the gut.” (pp. 180, 181). The following are Bell’s observ^ tions (c) referred to:—“ It is probable, however, whatever suture may be employed, if 1 more than one or two have been passed, that it will be difficult, or even impossible, to get the ligature away without hurting the intestine. I would never advise, therefo^ ( with a view to this, that the ligature should be left out at the wound ; less dan^r will 'I arise from cutting it entirely away, and allowing the stitches to remain. A considerable I part of it will fail into the cavity of the gut.” The following are Travers’s directions for the stitching a wounded intestine;—“ Let a small round sewing needle (triangular needles are certainly very ill fitted for the occasion) armed with a silk thread, be passed near to the lines formed at the bases of the everted lips. The thread is to be carried at short regular distances through the whole extent of the woimd, the operator being mindful that an equal portion of the edges is included in each stitch. When the suture is finished, let the thread lie securey fastened, and cut close to the knot. The reduction of the prolapsed folds should then be (n) Journal do Medecine, vol. xxvi. xliii. lx. Philosopliicol Transactions, 17^2-17.o8. Lombard, Clinique des Piaies rccontes oi la Suture est utile. Strasbourg, 1800. Sect. x. Dictionnairedes Sciences Mi-dieales, voi. xliii. p. 48. Larrky, Observations sur une I’laie du lias Ventre, avec lesions d’un intestin grele ; precedec de quelques reflexions sur des piaies des intestins en general, in Revue Medicale, 1820, liiT. Iv. p. 77. Kecueil de Memoires de Chirurgie, Paris, IS2I, p. 24,. (6) lb., above cited. (c) Surgery, cli. 3. sect. xii.