381 AND TREATMENT OF. 1 of opium, and of vegetable potash ; besides also, bark, naphtha, and other I stimulating or strengthening remedies, the use of the cold and warm bath. ■ General blood-lettings, and in large quantity, are recommended by maip', I the'internal and external use of mercury till salivation commences, cauteries : i in the nape of the neck and in the neighbourhood of the spine. ■ (1) Klein (<j) first employed prussic acid in tetanus, but without result; he gave as much I as 180 drops of Ittner’s prussic acid in the four-and-twenty hours, and only observed it produce an easier death. Trezwart (Medical Recorder, 182.5, Oct.J in one case, in which indeed very many untoward circumstances operated together, injected into the ■ skin up to four drops in a short space of time, (twenty drops of the acid being diluted in three ounces of water,) and after each time he noticed a cessation of the cramp, al- though death ensued. Sjuth (i) recommends colchicum, from sixteen successful cases, nine of which were traumatic tetanus, which he observed in Hayti. After having removed the costiveness by softening clysters and castor oil, he applied leeches or the cupping-glass along the whole length of the spine, and then laid compresses dipped in a strong solution of muriate of ammonia along the whole spine. He gave half a drachm of the vinous tincture of colchi- cum, increasing it every half hour till vomiting or purging took place, upon which the remedy was discontinued. If colic and faintness came on, he gave afterwards liq. am- mon. acet. 5ss., morph, acet. gr.ss.; in symptoms of collapse he put aside the narcotic, and applied warm poultices to the limbs. [Some years ago I was shown by a West Indian friend the report, in some Jamaica medical journal, (perhaps that in which Smith’s paper is, though, unfortunately, I can- not recollect it,) of a case of traumatic tetanus which was successfully treated by making long and deep incisions on either side of the ridge of the spine, from which free bleeding ensued, and afterwards the wounds were freely cauterized with caustic potash. Severe as this practice may seem to be, I am disposed to think it more likely to be successful than any other, if it be admitted that the spinal marrow reflects upon the general system, the irritation which has been set upon it by the local injury.—J. F. S ] 379. Neither of the preceding modes of treatment have yet been deter- mined by general experience. The selection and union of the remedies must be determined according to the peculiarity of the case, according to the continued or speedy course of the disease, the constitution of the patient, the severity of the symptoms, and the condition of the wound. Experience is most in favour of blood-letting, of the internal use of calomel with opium or morphia, mercurial friction and warm bathing. Blood-letting is speci- lly applicable to young country persons, at the beginning of the disease, in violent tension of the muscles, very red countenance, great dread of light, small pupil, but particularly when accompanied with inflammatory fever or any local inflammation. Cupping also along the spine may be used. In congestion of blood, in any organ, from severe contraction, the application of leeches may be needful; also about the wound, if very oainful and inflamed, and, at the same time, an anodyne plaster may be out on. Only at the onset may the cold bath be used to subdue the disease commencing in the nervous system: at a later period the warm batli is referable ; the decided relief which is thereby produced is, however, only ransitory. If a congestive condition, or erythysm, rather resemble in its course and symptoms tetanus, antispasmodic means, as opium, with cam- hor, musk, Stutz’s treatment, prussic acid, must be employed, either with or immediately after antiphlogistic treatment. If there be shiverin<>-, ;he opium must be given in form of a diaphoretic. Opium must be employed in largely increasing doses. No narcotism occurs even -Then eight, ten, and even twenty grains have been given every two hours. The conse- luent costiveness must be overcome by clysters composed of infusion of senna with sul- <1 ihate of magnesia. («) Ileidelberger klinische Annalen. (6) Jamaica Physical Journal.