157 SYMPTOMS OF. the lacunro is more than accidental, or that it has anything to do with the gonorrhoea.— J. F. S.] From the opportunity which Cooper had of examining a person who had been executed whilst affected with gonorrhoea, he states, that “ the inflammation had extended down to the bulb of the urethra ; for an inch or an inch and a-half down, the urethra was exceedingly red, and there was some effusion of matter on the internal sur- face ; the urethra was red at the bulb, but not of so deep a colour. The inflammation, therefore, is not confined to an inch or an inch and a half down the urethra, but often extends over the bulb, and in this way produces strictures.” (p. 190.) (5) Not unfrequently small swellings are noticed externally in the neighbourhood of the urethra, which. Hunter thinks, are enlargement of its glands; they sometimes sup- purate and burst externally, but at other times internally. Hunter has well described them:—“ At times swelling very considerably, even to the size of a small flattened nut, inflaming, and then a gush of matter flowing from the urethra, they almost immediately subside. The discharge has continued for some time gradually diminishing, till it has entirely gone off, and the tumour been almost wholly reduced ; yet, some months after, it has swelled in the same manner again, and terminated in the same way.” There can be no doubt of the correctness of his suspicions, that “ these tumours are the ducts or lacuncE of the glands of the urethra, distended with their mucus, from the mouth of the duct being closed, in a manner similar to what happens to the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose ; and, in consequence of the distension of the ducts or lacunae, inflammation and suppuration come on, and ulceration takes place, which opens a way into the urethra; but this opening soon closes up, and this occasions a return.” (p. 48.) (6) “ The fear the patient is in,” says Hunter, “ when he is making water, assists in diminishing the stream of urine. The stream, as it flows from the urethra, is generally much scattered and broken the moment it leaves the passage, which is owing to the in- ternal canal having^ become irregular, and is not peculiar to a venereal gonorrhoea, but common to every disease of the urethra that alters the exact and natural figure of the canal, even although the irregularity is very far back, as we find in many diseased and prostate glands.” (p. 47.) (7) _“ The bleeding,” Cooper (a) observes, is “ generally from that part of the urethra opposite to the symphysis pubis.” They are generally serviceable; “ but, when they pro- duce fainting, and, as soon as the person recovers from that state the haimorrhage recurs and mat for two or three times, it must be checked.” ’ ■■ yhen the inflammation is violent,” Hunter observes, “ it often happens that some vessels of the urethra burst, and a discharge of blood ensues, which is in greater quantity at the close of making water; this, however, takes place at other times, and generally gives temporary ease : sometimes this blood is in small quantity, and only lives the matter a tinge, as I observed when treating of the colour of the discharge. The erec- ^ to become a cause of extravasation m blood, this extravasation generally increases the soreness at the time of makinff Rw’ a state of parts, the urethra is usually sore when pressed; yet the bleeding dimimshes the inflammation, and often gives ease.” (p. 52.) spongiosum bursts, and a little swelling, caused by the extra- v^ted blood is observed externally, which, however, is not of material cLsequSce wUeaefe^i™ mention, that I once saw a case, under my burS of 1 ■ R enormous extravasation of blood, from during the act of coition ; and the result of whiob as, the penis especially and the perimEiim were greatly distended and he was nmRlo l7t^ wurse”o7two°o‘ iR of ^liich a catheter was introducS in me course ot two or three days, extravasation of urine ensued and tRo Riod/i„ the inflam- goes (8) Hunter divides chordee into inflammatory and snasmodic •_« WRn„ ti, • mation is not confined merelv to the siirfnoo of ir^ me in deeper, and affects the reticular membrane it urethra and its glands, but able lymph, as in the adhesive inflammation wR°*^r^*^® extravasation of coagul the power of distension of the corpus sponaLsumlrS^^ ^ ° together, destroys respect to the corpora cavernosa phis and ^ unequal in this in time of erect/on, which is caSa^hort"^^^^^ gree of inflammation than common it is on offR.f i • i ^ greater de- aftcr all infection is gone, ^ing Merelv n eon? and often does, remain Thespasmodic chordee arises from snasm nt adhesive inflammation. irom spasm, at least, it cannot proceed from the same cause (<i) MS. Lectures on Surgery.