216 FIBROUS AND SYNOVIAL RHEUMATISM. the part, but tliat it continues until the morbid action extends to the other textures, and i ultimately ulceration takes place in the cartilages, suppuration is established, and there IS complete destruction of the articulating surfaces.” (p. 28, 9.) “ With respect to the fluctuation,” Lawrence (a) says, “ that cases of this kind differ materially. In some instances the tumefaction of the joint is quite soft, and we can very easily detect the fluid: we can move it from one part to another; by pressing on the tumour above, we elevate the patella from its situation, actually lift It up from the trochlea of the os femoris, and then, by pressure upon it, can push it down again into a sort of cavity. In some cases the swelling feels much harder; and there are cases, where the inflammation is violent and has proceeded rapidly, in which the swelling is so firm as to afford but a slight sensation of tumefaction to the hand. I have seen cases which, from the tension produced by the large quantity of fluid, have quite deceived me, and have presented all the characters of a solid tumour. However, on cautiously examining those cases, more particularly if the knee is put as much as possible into the extendi state, so as to relax the extensor muscles, you will be able to detect the nature of the tumour, although at first it may give you the impression that it is solid.” (p. 480.) Not very unfrequently, I think, though Brodie says “ not often * • * a joint is swollen from a preternatural quantity of fluid collected in its cavity, without pain or in- flammation. This may be supposed to arise, either from a diminished action of the ab- sorbents, or an increased action of the secreting vessels. The disease may be compared to the dropsy of the peritoneum or pleura, or, more properly, to the hydrocele; and it has been not improperly designated by the terms Hydrarthrus and Hydrops Articuli.” (p. 10.) Here would seem to be the most convenient place to mention the alleged differences between inflammation of the ligaments, and that of the synovial membrane; and, though the form specially mentioned is that of rheumatic inflammation, and it might be more strictly considered to belong to the physician’s department, yet, as it is the only attemjjt made to distinguish between the inflammatory conditions of the two tissues, I shall make no apology for the following long extract from Watson (6):—“There are two varieties of acute rheumatism, a circumstance first noticed by Dr. Chambers at St George’s Hospital, and afterwards made public by Dr. Francis Hawkins in his Gulstonian Lectures. The varieties are spoken of under the names of flbrous or diffused rheuma- tism, and synovial rheumatism. I apprehend, however, that in both of them the inflam- mation has its starting point in some fibrous texture; but that in the one a considerable extent of that texture is implicated, while the inflammation does not involve the neigh- bouring s3movial or serous tissue; and in the other the extent of fibrous tissue affected in the onset is comparatively small, while the local symptoms are more expressive of the secondary synovial disease. I will briefly state the distinctive characters of these two varieties of what is primarily and essentially the same malady. In the one, then, the inflammation commences in the immediate neighbourhood of one of the larger joints; not in the joint, but near it. It attacks the tendons, fascise, ligaments, and possibly also the muscles. There is not, at first, much redness or swelling; but after the pain has been of some duration, there is a pufiiness around the parts affected, caused apparently by turgescence of the blood-vessels, and at length slight pitting or oedema may supervene, from effusion into the surrounding cellular tissue, and what redness is present is dis- posed in streaks, following the course of the tendons. On the other hand, in the syno- vial variety, which shows itself more frequently and more plainly in the knee than any where else, the pain, which marks the onset of the complaint, does not last long before some degree of swelling is perceptible, together, in most instances, with slight redness of the skin ; and this swelling is not due so much to turgescence of vessels as to oedema of the cellular tissue, as to fluid poured into the cavity of the joint. And the form and character of the swelling indicate that it is the result of the fulness and distension of the synovial membrane ; it is tight and elastic, and protrudes, as it were, through the spaces that intervene between tlie tendons and the ligaments, by which it is in other parts bound down and restrained ; and fluctuation is often distinctly perceptible in the supei^ ficial joints, when both hands are applied to them. These are the local differences between the two forms of the disease. And tliere are differences equally well marked between the constitutional symptoms that attend them. It is in that fonn which (xar i|o*»jv) is called flbrous rheumatism, that the inflammatory fever runs so high, tliat tlie tongue is so thickly furred, that the round full-bounding pulse occurs, that the profuse spontaneous acid perspirations break out, which exhaust the patient’s strength without alleviating his sufferings, that the urine is high coloured, and deposits a copious sedi- (a) Lectures in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. (6) Lectures on Physic, vol. ii.