597 HARE-LIP. 1 • n it in tlie same manner, with his hands crossed. Both cuts must unite fcdosely with each other above the angle of tlie cleft. If tlie cut be not Perfected at once, it must be continued in the same direction, and without #r.retching too much the already divided part. 'i f(l) The position of the child’s head is a matter of no slight importance; for if laid "l 1 the back, as often carelessly done, or if not so placed as to favour the streaming or ° le blood from the mouth, it will run back into the throat, and produce violent coughing od even choking.—j. f. s. . j / (2) Lawkkxce considers that “ the scissors are the most convenient mode (or rrming the operation for hare-lip) and that you will do it best with that kind which ill- ave knife edges; * they cut with great facility, without bruising the edges be I veen the blades, and such scissors are the most convenient for paring off the edges of hare-lip.” (p. 819.)] 726. In using the bistoury the lip should be fixed upon a piece of wood atroduced beneath it, or, still better, by Beinl’s lip-holder (a), of which, he one blade of cork or wood placed beneath the lip, is to be cai ried so ^igh that both blades rise above the angle of the cleft, and when closed eave about half a line of the naturally conditioned skin, together with lie red edge of the cleft, uncovered. The bistoury is then thrust in a Jine above the angle of the cleft, and its edge being applied, beneath, is if rawn down along the side of the upper blade, so that the whole edge of Ihe cleft is cut off. The second edge is to be treated in like manner, the ;nife being introduced at the point where the first cut was commenced (1). [(l) The bistoury is certainly preferable to scissors, which bruise the parts they ivide. But I think our common mode of using it, is better than that recommended by itiTF.T.TTTs; and a phimosis knife the most convenient and the only instrument required. The Surgeon should grasp either corner of the cleft lip, which he fancies most conve- sient, with the finger and thumb of his opposite hand, and then passing the point of the !;nife behind the lip, he thrusts it through about a line above the angle of the cleft, draws t down till it has cut through the red part of the lip, taking care to cut off the whole •iece which, entering into the cleft, rises above the proper level of the lip, for unless this >e attended to, an ugly notch remains after the union of the wound. The other edge is Ifterwards to be pared in like manner. There need be no fear of freely cutting away he lip, as the edges always readily come together, and if they seem to need any dragging .t the upper part, to effect this it is better to divide the neighbouring membrane of the outh, to prevent such drag.—J. F. S.] 727. The bleeding is generally inconsiderable, and stanched by the lose junction of the fresh-made edges, which is best effected by the twisted mture. For this purpose gold or silver needles are used, with steel oints, which can be removed (1). The left edge of the lip is to be held with the thumb and finger of the left hand, and the needle thrust vertically through near the red edge of the lip, and from three to five lines distant a from the edge of the wound, to the lining membrane; it is then to be i brought horizontal, so that by pressing, its point appears near the edge of f the lip in the surface of the wound. The other edge of the wound is now K to be brought with the fingers of the left hand to that already pierced, and ' the needle introduced in the same direction and made to pass through r; externally. The point of the needle is now to be removed, a thread tl applied around it, and its ends drawn down by an assistant. At two or e thr^ lines’ distance from the former a second needle is to be introduced, 4 whilst with the thumb and finger of the left hand its point is pressed li against the right edge of the wound. If the cleft be large, the employ- ment of a third or fourth needle may be necessary. A stout thread is then H to be twisted around each needle in form of 00, first upon the upper pin, (o) Beobachtungen der Cliirurgischen Academie zu Wien, 1801, vol. i. pi. ix.