QUESTION OF IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION 520 tured bone has been returned, yet almost immediately after a free oozing, or pt!rhaps a stream of fluid -will continue to escape for many hours, and only gradually subside after two or three days. This, however, must not be mistaken for blood, as by careful ins[K-c- tion it will be found only the serum escaping from the blood which has clotted below. But should it be undoubted, that the fluid is arterial blood, and if it flow in sufficient quantity, that after a few hours the circulation show itself considerably weakened, and the patient’s condition be much depressed, then it is an unfavourable sign, and as I think, and have already mentioned, amputation should be performed in preference to disturbing the wound in search of the wounded vessel, which is often far distant from the part where the blood seems to come up, for the purpose of tying it, or in prefer- ence to cutting on the vessel and taking it up above the wound, because it will often bleed from the lower end, more or less readily, by the supply furnished from the anastomosing vessels, and because by cutting off the supply of blood, mortificafton of the parts below the ligature is very likely to follow, and require amputation when the pa- tient is less able to bear it. For these reasons, in undoubted and free arterial bleeding I prefer immediate amputation. 2ndly. Of the present condition of the patient, and his capability of bearing imme- diately the second severe shock of an amputation.—The condition of a patient after com- pound fracture depends partly on his constitutional power, and partly on the severity of the injury. Much that has been already mentioned, {par. 335, note 3,) in treating of the shock in gun-shot wounds, is applicable here. Some persons will suffer a very severe compound fracture and be scarcely at all knocked down by it, whilst others with a com- paratively slight one, will seem to sink without possibility of restoration, or will only revive with great attention and management after many hours. In the former case, if the Surgeon thought immediate amputation requisite, there would be no objection to its performance; but in the latter, even though the injury were very severe and acconw panied with bleeding which could only be arrested by pressure on the great arterial trunk of the limb, the operation would, without doubt, destroy the patient during its per- formance, of which I have seen more than one or two examples. We must therefore be guided by circumstances; if the patient be healthy, and heart-whole, and if the pulse be good, the operation may be performed at once. But if he be delicate, and half senseless, if he be very faint and the pulse very languid, or it may be scarcely percep- tible and intermitting, if there be yawning and sighing, restlessness with much jactitation or throwing the arras about, and occasional convulsions, and if there be vomiting, which, however, sometimes though not always acts as a re-excitant by sending blood to the brain, of which it is in great need, then we must wait till, by the cautious adminis-i tration of warm water and brandy, by presenting strong liquor of ammonia to the nostrils* by fanning and bathing the face with vinegar, at the same time that warmth is applied to the feet, hands, and arm-pits, reaction is brought about and kept up for a few hours; for occasionally it happens, that though there may be a seeming revival for an hour or two, all at once the powers sink and the patient dies. It must not be supposed that by the expression immediate amputation it is meant that a limb should be cut off directly after the receipt of the injury. In general practice the Surgeon rarely sees the patient till some time has elapsed, and except in hospital practice, it also requires still more time to make the necessary arrangements; at the very earliest, therefore, it usually happens that the operation cannot be performed till four or five hours after the accident, which is ample time, except in cases of extreme sinking, for the patient to recover himself, and screw up his courage to the sticking place; but earlier than this time I should not be inclined to operate, and if the shock be very great, it will often be necessary to wait for twelve or twenty hours, according to circumstances, before it will be either prudent or safe to amputate. When, as happens in very rare cases, that the amputation of two limbs is neces- sary, it is a point of great difficulty to determine what course is best to pursue. C:ises have occurred in which both limbs have been immediately removed, one directly after the other, or one immediately, and the other some time after, and the patients have done well; whilst, on the other hand, these practices have been adopted and the patients lost, almost immediately after the operation or operations. These cases are beset with extreme danger, and it is next to impossible to give any positive directions on the subject, beyond employing the most careful attention to tlie patient's constitution^ powers, before proceeding with one or other mode of practice. But it may be presumed, if after the first operation the patient’s powers seem declining, that the seroud opera- tion would be deferred. Whilst on the contrary, if he bore the first operation well, it would be encouragement to perform the second immediately, so as to put him in the best condition possible.