SPINE-DISEASE— 278 move much, or at all briskly; in no great length of time after this he may be observed frequently to trip and stumble, although there be no impediment in his way ; and when- ever he attempts to move briskly, he finds that his legs involuntarily cross each other by which he is frequently thrown down, and that without stumbling; upon endeavour- ing to sfaind still and erect without support, even for a few minutes, his knees give way and bend forward. When the distemper is a little further advanced, it will Ite found that he cannot, without much difiiciilty and deliberation, direct either of his feet pre- cisely to any exact point; and very soon after this both thighs and legs lose a good deal of their natural 'sensibility, and become perfectly useless for all the purposes of hxx)- motion. When an adult is the patient, the progress of the distemper is much the same, but rather quicker, (p. 397-99.) * * » Without this erosive destruction of ilie • bodies of the vnrtabrce there can be no curvature of the kind I am speaking of (curve forward); or, in other words, that erosion is the sine qua non of this disease; and ! although there can be no true curve without caries, yet there is, and that not unfre- • quently, caries without curve. Also that the caries with curvature and useless limbs is , most frequently of the cervical and dorsal vertebra:; the caries without curve, of the • lumbal, though this is by no means constant or necessary. And that in the case of ’ carious spine without curvature, it most frequently happens that internal abscess and 1 collections of matter are formed, which matter makes its way outward, and appears in , the hip, groin, or thigh; or being detained within the body, destroys the patient: the ■ real and immediate cause of whose death is seldom known or even rightly guessed at, tj unless the dead body be examined. Further, that what are commonly called lumbal and psoas abscess, are not unfrequently produced in this manner, and therefore, when n we use these terms, we should be understood to mean only a description of the course «■ which such matter has pursued in its way outward, or the place where it makes its ap- - pearance externally. * ■* * And contrary to the general opinion, a caries of the spine c is more frequently a cause than an effect of these abscesses.” (pp. 472-74). “After ulceration has gone to a certain extent,” .says Lawrence, “ the spine bends b forwards and becomes crooked; but the curvature which is thus produced essentially \ differs in its nature and direction from that of rickety affection of the spine ; the curva- ture, in the present case, is always in the anterior direction, while in rachitis it is to one.> side.” (p. .561.) Brodie, however, observes, “this rule must not be admitted without some exceptions. A slight degree of lateral curvature is, in some instances, the conse* quence of caries, * * * by the bodies of the vertebra: having been destroyed on one side.' to a greater extent than on the other.” (p. 311.) With regard to the so-called palsy of the limbs in this disorder, Pott remarks:— “ I have, in compliance with custom, called the disea.se a palsy ; but it should be ob-i served that, notwithstanding the lower limbs be rendered almost or totally useless, yet f there are some essential circumstances in which this affection differs from a coininoa; nervous palsy ; the legs and thighs are rendered unfit for all purposes of locomotion,: and do also lose much of their natural sensibility: but, notwithstanding this, they have neither the flabby feel, nor have they that seeming looseness at the joints, nor tba^.^ total incapacity of resistance, which allows the latter to be tw’isted in almost all direct tions; on the contrary, the joints have frequently a considerable degree of stiffness-: particularly the ankles, by which stiffness the feet of children are generally pointer i downwards, and they are prevented from setting them flat upon the ground.” (p. 4o0.) i (2) Brodie says:—“ There is reason to believe tliat suppuration takes place at an earliei period in those cases in which the disease has its origin in the cancellous structure p . the bones, than where it begins in the intervertebral cartilages. It is remarkable ii some cases of this last description, to how great an extent ulceration will sometime}; spread without the formation of abscess. I have known as many as three bodies o i vertebra: completely destroyed, and the disease to have lasted many years, withou- matter having been formed. * * * We must not however conclude l)ccause no al)sces»: has shown itself, that therefore no abscess exists. Frequently, in examinations afte death, we find an abscess in connexion with carious vertebra:, which had never presente' itself externally, but which evidently had existed for a considerable length of time. I is not uncommon to find caries of the vertebra: going on for two or tliree years befor there are any certain indications of the existence of abscess. In one case in which th- disease was in the vertebra: of the loins, an abscess presented itself in the groin at th end of eight years ; and in another case, in which the disease was situated in the dorsj- vertebra:, the interval was still longer, not less than sixteen years.” (pp. 253-54). Brodie makes the following interesting observation on the disapjK'arance and n appearance elsewhere of abscess, connected with carious spine: “ I have known an al scess to have descended from the loins, and presented itself as a tumour in the groii