FRACTURES OF THE 580 day. At first he can do this very little, not because, as IIunteh and Chelius suppojo the m. rectus is too short and requires lengthening, but on the contrary because it isuw long and must be instructed to shorten itself still more, so as to compensate for the ap-1 i proximation of its points of attachment by the unnatural space between the broken en£ of the knee-cap. When the muscle has re-acquired sufiicient power to throw the W , and foot forwards, then some weights must be attached to the foot, and the same exerciw . continued till the muscle can freely move it when so loaded. In this way the muscle becomes shortened, and capable both of sustaining the erect posture and throwing the • leg forwards. It may be here observed, that if the fibro-ligamentous union of the broken • i pieces of the knee-cap be long, the patient’s gait is very odd, the foot and leg are not carried forward steadily and set on the ground, but as it were jerked or thrown forward -> from the knee, and when the foot rests on the ground and the weight of the body is . transferred to that limb, the knee is in an extreme state of extension, as if supported - almost entirely by the posterior ligament of the joint.—J. F. S.] 698. The longitudinal fracture requires merely a common contentive bandage, which may compress the broken pieces on their sides, with a less elevated position than in transverse fracture. The splintered fracture requires the same apparatus as the transverse, - when the broken ends are displaced upwards, or as the longitudinal frac- ture if they be displaced at the side; but here also the inflammation and - swelling must be first got rid of, before the aplication of the apparatus. If fracture of the knee-cap be accompanied with wound of the joint, it must be treated according to the general rules of compound fractures. [Compound fracture of the knee-cap almost invariably requires amputation, as the injury producing it is so severe that there can be little expectation of a satisfactoyi issue.—J. F. S.] 699. If the ligament of the knee-cap be torn, the knee-cap ascends, and;- the treatment must be the same as in transverse fracture. I have employed this same practice in five cases with the happiest success. I once observed,- in a weakly man, in whom the ligament was torn on the left side, and- from improper treatment the bone was displaced upwards five inches, a. tearing of the fleshy fibres of the m. rectus, which had occurred from a false step, and from the attempt at preserving the equilibrium of the body, consequent on muscular contraction. The seat of rupture is distinctly felt, of whieh the space becomes greater on bending the leg, and is di- minished by straightening it. The application of the prescribed apparatus was successful. Although the apparatus above mentioned is most suitable for transverse fracture of the knee-cap and rupture of its ligament, it must, however, be observed that its applica- tion must be made with the greatest accuracy and attention, as also its readjustment when the bandages are loosened, in which special care must be taken that the broken ends be not displaced, and the scarcely-formed union disturbed and destroyed. In tms respect it were perhaps convenient to spread the above-described apparatus with plaster, and thereby render certain its lasting close application. XVII.—OF FRACTURE OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. (^Practura Ossium Cruris, Lat.; Bruche der Knochen des Unterschenkels, Germ.; Fracture des Os de la Jambe, Fr.) Pott, P., above cited. Desault, above cited, p. 270. Boyer, above cited, p. 324. 700. Soth bones of the leg may be broken at once, or the shin-bone splint-bone may be broken separately. The fracture is produced either } a fall upon the feet, or by the operation of direct violence.