625 GOUTY ULCERS. i lometimes it disagrees with the stomach and the patient loses appetite and becomes « .vorse instead of better. Under either of these circumstances it must be left off. 4 iVhen used as an ointment, a drachm of the salt to an ounce of lard is a very useful i mplication; more commonly employed, however, to glandular swellings than to sores. J t is best applied either simply spread upon lint, or by dressing the surface after the « -emoval of the cuticle by a blister. Either of these modes is preferable to rubbing the lintment in, for frequently when the skin is thin and the patient irritable, after three or bur rubbings the skin inflames, the cuticle cracks and it is necessary to withhold the 4, .pplication to prevent the establishment of a sore. I Some Surgeons are fond of painting enlarged scrofulous glands with tincture of .odine, which very commonly blisters the skin; or if it do not, it destroys the cuticle, Jvhich flakes off in large pieces. I do not think it a very efficient remedy, though ^ >y some so esteemed. A 1 have given cod-liver oil several times with much advantage ; but it is abominably Jaauseous, and as it owes its efficacy to the iodine it contains, it is certainly preferable 4 0 give the iodine in some more agreeable form.—J. F. S.] t 777. The scrofulous inflammation of the upper lip, nose, and cheeks, it vhich often leads, by ulceration, to considerable destruction, in which the feartilages of the nose shrivel, is, with simultaneous general treatment, not SiiO easily checked and diminished with anything, as by bathing with w lecoction of solanum nigrum, alone, or with the addition of sublimate or ^'epeated touchings with nitrate of silver. When the scrofula is very inve- i} erate and connected with considerable degeneration, a satisfactory change n the whole body, and a cure, can alone be effected by either of the last- } nentioned modes of treatment, by the hunger-cure, by the smear-cure, liiTTMANN’s decoction, and the like. IV.—OF GOUTY ULCERS. d Sydenham, Thos., M. D., Tractatus de Podagra et Hydrope. Loudon, 1683. 8vo. tjr Grant, Beobachtungen uber chronische Krankheiten, vol. i. Von der Gicht. 'iMipzig, 1792. RowlYjWilliam, The Gout and Rheumatism cured or alleviated. London, 1780. 8vo. Wenzel, Dissert, de Ossium arthriticorum indole. Mogunt., 1791. aj Babthez, Traite des Maladies Goutteuses. 2 vols. Second Edit. Montpellier, 1819. ivo. ScuDASioRE, Chas., M. D., A Treatise of the Nature and Cure of Gout, &c. Fourth r jSdit. London, 1823. 8vo. ivoN Vebing, J., Heilart der Gicht. Wien, 1832. 778. Gouty Ulcers {Ulcera arthritica, Lat.; arthretischen Geschwiire, jerm.; Ulceres arthritiques, Fr.) are consequent on the existence of gout n the body, with which they are more manifestly or secretly connected. They are usually superficial, their bottom is wide, reddish brown, smooth, ■7};ontracted, and seemingly very deep, from the wasting of the cellular itdssue, and from the union of the skin with the underlying fibrous tissues ; • .hey secrete a quantity of serous fluid, which corrodes the parts surround- l;,ng the ulcer, and not rarely blackens the linen. Their edges are mostly •'.^rregular, pale, and hard, but under inflammation rosy and painful. Thev Jtiecome worse periodically, from bad air, or the gouty affections become ‘Mvorse on the incipient improvement of the ulcer. 779. These ulcers occur either from accidental injury during general S'outy affections, or after gouty inflammation and swelling, which run into ilceration; they are therefore situated mostly in the lower extremities, ' m in the neighbourhood of joints. Their diagnosis is generally easy.