262 (a) .Above citetl. TREATMENT OF ACUTE AND In confirmation of Key’s opinion, I mention the following account of the examination of a hip-joint by my friend Williasi Adams, in a case with which I was most deeply and ' painfully interested. The child, ten years of age, had been lame in the right hip for live or six months, but had no other symptom of hip-disease, no pain on motion nor on pres- sure, nor any restriction to the motion of the limb, till within a fortnight of his death, (which was caused by tuliercles and effusion into the ventricles of the brain,) when he complained of violent pain, if the thigh were only slightly moved in lifting him from or to the bed. A small abscess, of the size of a nut, was found close to the origin of the upper head of the vi. rectus fevtoris. On laying open the capsular ligament, a small quantity of dirty brown-coloured fluid escap^. The synovial capsule had become thickened, tender, in the sense of being readily torn, granular on the surface, and yellow- i ish in colour. The round ligament and contiguous synovial membrane in the portion of the acetabulum uncovered by cartilage had been the seat of inflammation, the vessels were injected, the membrane was thickened, and a small quantity of lymph adhered to ' its surface. The state of the synovial membrane of the round ligament, just descrilx.*d, ' appears to me precisely the same as that described in Key’s case, but less advanced.— J. F. S.] 238. The general observations already made apply to the etiology. In- flammation appears to arise in the hip-joint, more frequently in the carti- lage and bone than in the soft parts. Fricke (a) makes a distinction between coxalgy and coxartlirocacy. In the former, ' at the onset, there is not, he says, any inflammatory affection in the hip-joint, but only relaxation of the muscles, whereby in time an inflammatory affection of the hip-joint is secondarily produced. The latter is always from the beginning connected with distinct inffammatory symptoms of the hip-joint. We cannot, however, agree to the admission ■ of a coxalgy in this sense, after what has been said of the lengthening of the extremities, ■ and after the results of our experience. 239. The prognosis is always unfavourable, least so, however, if disease have arisen in the ligaments, or in the synovial membrane. In the first period of the disease only is the cure of the disease possible ; subsequently, even if healing should follow, there still remains a more or less halting gait. In actual dislocation, or in anchylosis, the lameness is very decided. It is generally less dangerous in children than in grown persons. In robust people, and where external violence has caused the disease, the prognosis is more favourable than in generally dyscratic subjects. If it have already proceeded to carious destruction, to the formation of abscess in the hip-joint, there is but rarely any cure possible. 240. T4ie treatment of coxalgy is guided by the rules already laid down, and must vary according to the activity of the inflammation, the stage of' the disease, and the general causes connected with it. 241. In the first stage of acute coxalgy, tlie corresponding to > it must be strictly antiphlogistic, and the diseased extremity kept in the ■ most perfect quiet. In traumatic inflammation, if very severe and in robust: persons, blood-letting, repeated application of a great number of leeches, and 1 continued cold applications,with corresponding attention to food, and cooling: medicine given internally are required. If the inflammation be less active,. especially when it springs from rheumatic causes, or in scrofulous persons,. repeated application of leeches or cupping will always be found sufficient. . If the pain and inflammation diminish, which is shown by the natural : direction and length of the limb being restored, rubbing in mercurial oint- ment and repeated blisters must be by turns employed around the whole t' joint. Care must be taken in warm bathing, which is recommended by>: many, as the motion connected witli it, and the cold so easily taken after i it, frequently operate prejudicially. If the inflammation continue for a..