463 INTESTINES. wound in the colon with a sinffle silk thread, retnrned the intestines, and brought the edges of the wound in the walls of the belly together with the quill suture. He was covered with cold sweat, and had great pain in the belly, but had little anxiety of countenance. Fourteen hours after he began to vomit greenish niattcr,^ but no blood ; his breathing became laborious. He did not pass any stool, and died in thirty hours, during the last hour and a-half of which he was comatose. The peritoneum was iti- flamed, and serum effused in its cavity ; no adhesion in the wound of the colon, which was lying on the m. iliaciis, but a portion of that intestine was firmly adherent to the muscles. , • ■ , (2) As regards “ wounds in which the intestinal tube directly communicates with the surface, and the alimentary or fecal matter is discharged by the parietes,” Travers states that “ the principal feature by which they are distinguished from those unattended with feculent discharge or prolapse, namely the discharge of the intestinal matters, results from the size and apposition of the openings in the parietes and the gut. The symptoms are generally less imminent than of those in which the external communica- tion does not exist, chiefly because the evacuation which takes place at the wound is a direct and powerful check upon the disposition to membranous inflammation which supervenes. The event of efldision being provided for, and the peritoneal inflammation rendered less probable or less formidable in its occurrence, the eventual importance of the case appears to turn upon the restitution of the intestinal functions.” (p. 136-38.)] 523. A wound of the intestine may be a stal/, a longitudinal or trans- verse ivound, in which last the intestine may be either simply cut into or completely cut through. In slight stabs of the intestine the opening of tlie wound is always closed by the protrusion of the inner coat. In longitu- dinal wounds the edge of the wound always turns out, and from the con- traction of the longitudinal and transverse fibres of the gut the wound assumes an oblong form. In transverse wounds the edges are not so widely separated, but they are more thickly turned out. In a transverse cutting through of the intestine the ends retract, and expand. [Wouuds of the bowels, like those of other parts, are of various kinds, and exhibit, as Tr.avers observes, “ certain appearances depending upon the action of the bowel. If a gut be punctured, the elasticity of the peritoneum and the contraction of the muscular fibres open the wound, and the villous or mucous coat forms a sort of hernial protrusion, and obliterates the aperture. If an incised wound be made, the edges are drawn asunder and reverted, so that the mucous coat is elevated in the form of a fleshy lip. If the sec- tion be transverse, the lip is broad and bulbous, and acquires tumefaction and redness from the contraction of the circular fibres behind it, which produces, relatively to the everted portion, the appearance of a cervix. (‘ These appearances,’ Travers remarks, ‘have also been described by Haller (a).’) If the incision is according to the length of the cylinder, the lip is narrow and the contraction of the adjacent longitudinal, re- sisting that of the circular fibres, giving the orifice an oval form. This eversion and contraction is produced by that series of motions which constitutes the peristaltic action of the intestines.” (pp. 85, 86.)] 524. The opinions regarding the treatment of an intestine wounded and at the same time protruded are very different. Various kinds of stitches are proposed for the union of tiie intestine in longitudinal and partially transverse wounds ; tlie glover's stitch (5), the loop-stitch (c), tlie darning stitch (d); in transverse wounds, through the whole thickness of the bowel, the stitch of the four masters (e), in which both ends of the intes- tine are fastened on a piece of windpipe of some animal, or on a cylinder of cardboard oiled ; the stitch (Ramdohr’s) loith ensheathing of the upper into the lower part of the intestine (/), and the interrupted stitch of which die threads are cut off near the knot, and the knots are discharo-ed (g)- The stitch is employed by many with the view* of i-n?Operations. Paris, 1/OS, vol.i. p. 188. ’ (c) Louis ; in the Memoires de I’Acadcmie do Chirurcie, vol. iii. p. 192. f/) Mniiiii, Oissert. Obs. .Misc. Ilelmst., 1780. (i/) John Bell and Tiiaveus, f. '••loinenta Pliysiologiaj, lib. xxiv. sect. 2, , and Opera Minora, vol. i. sect xv. Institutiones Chirurgicte, plate iv. Traitc dos Operations. Paris, 1 p, oO,