131 CHILBLAINS. little blisters or risings of the skin, and are often converted into wide- spreading obstinate sores. Chilblains may also, by great neglect, be- come mortified. They produce, only in winter, especially in change of weather, annoyances which are often great, and even inteifere with the use of the limb ; but, in summer, they subside. In any dyscracy of the body they often assume a corresponding chai'acter. [Hunter mentions “another inflammation very like chilblains, which is not very lively and is often in blotches, some the breadth of a shilling, others of the breadth of half-a-crown, and even broader, &c. This inflammation certainly arises from irritable debility; the blotches look more of a copper colour, and the skin over them is often diseased.” (p. 265.) I have seen this appearance several times, and, in two or three instances, long streaks in the course of the superficial veins of the same character.— J. F. S.] 110. Chilblains usually occur in young weakly persons, and women who are not accustomed to cold, have a sensitive and delicate skin, most commonly on the feet, hands, ears, nose, and lips, by a sudden alternation of cold and heat, especially if the part be moist and sweating. In many per- sons there seems a peculiar disposition for their production. 111. The treatment of chilblains of a mild kind consists infrequently rubbing tliem with snow, in repeated washing with ice-cold water, with brandy and water, camphorated spirit, lead wash, vinegar, acetate of am- monia, solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia, tincture of amber, diluted hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, petroleum, oil of turpentine, a mixture of rectified spirit of ammonia and laudanum, nitric acid with cinnamon water, solution of chloride of lime and so on. If they are very painful, more soothing remedies must be employed, leeches on the diseased part, cocoa, butter, deer-suet, poultices of chamomile and elder flowers, of rotten apples,bruised houseleek, various softening ointments, smearing with warm glue, and so on. Rubbing in soap liniment with a portion of tincture of cantharides upon the chilblain once or twice a day and keeping it warm, and, if it be ulcerated, the rubbing is to be applied in the immediate neighbourhood (a). The diseased part must be kept warm and quiet during the employment of these remedies. [One of the best stimulants for chilblains is our hospital mustard liniment, consisting of one ounce of flour of mustard to a pint of turpentine.—J. F. S.] 112. Ulcerated chilblains require drying salves, lead oinment, zinc oint- ment, with myrrh, camphor, opium and Peruvian balsam, red precipitate of mercury ointment, and, if the flesh fungates, it must be touched with lunar caustic. In old sores of this kind, issues must be employed before they close, and, if connected with any general disease, it must be properly counteracted. Many speak favorably of electricity. Gangrenous chilbains must be treated after the general rules. 113. The occurrence, as well as the recurrence of chilblains, must be guarded against by accustoming oneself to the cold, by avoiding warm cover- ing, and all ha.sty vvarming of cold parts, by frequently washing with cold water, and afterwards brusliing and carefully drying them. (a) Wardhop; in Medic.-Chirug. Trans., pol.v. p. 142.