666 WEINHOLD’S MERCURIAL CURE. of the ointment must be used, and at more distant intervals. But the salivation frequently dimini.slies when the rubbing in is continued, and nearly always if it be restricted to the evening. The salivation oftentimes * continues after the cure is completed and ceases of itself. If during the whole cure there be no effect upon the salivary glands, it must not be forced; the hope of a happy result is then, however, always .slight. In this ca.s® there often occur frequent intestinal and urinary evacuations, increa.se(fi perspiration, and critical symptoms. Spa.sms, faintings, high fever, weaken- ing perspirations, if occurring previous to the third rubbing in, and cannot be removed by chamomile and peppermint tea, by old wine, coffee, Hoff- mann’s spirit, and require the suspension of the cure. From my own experience I cannot recommend the modification of the friction-cure adopted by some, and formerly known by the name of the Montpellier treatment, or steam-cure, in which the diet is neither so strict, nor the rubbing-in made so regu- larly, or in such quantity as directed by Louvrier and Rust to produce salivation; but it is rather endeavoured to avoid it by suspending the rubbing-in, by purging, and so on; and then the friction is recommenced, and subsequently wood drinks are em- ployed. 849. If the salivation or critical sweating be checked by cold and so on, in consequence of which severe spasmodic symptoms and even sudden death may ensue, the patient must be cleansed in a warm bath, put into a clean warm bed, the whole body rubbed with warm cloths, and with these also may be employed, mustard poultices, diaphoretics, and even emetics. 850. During the time of the evening frictions spasmodic sj’mptoms, oppression, fainting, convulsions, nausea, and small contracted pulse, which often arise, are either forerunners of a second crisis, especially if tlie fifteenth day be not completed ; or they are consequent on the use of purgatives. In the former case, stimulating remedies must be given; in the latter, the operation of the purgative must be stopped, and the next time a less powerful one given. But if under this treatment the symp- toms do not subside, the treatment must be suspended. 851. When the cure is perfected, the patient, by the use of nourishing food, care being taken to avoid overloading the stomach, soon acquires a healthj blooming appearance: but if this do not follow, there is great probability of an imperfect cure. Should it be necessaiy still to repeat the cure once more, the patient must be first recovered from the pre- vious treatment. 852. Weinhold (a) employs a grand Mercurial Cure with calomel, which, as well as the friction cure, may be of greater service, and not only in old syphilitic, but also in rheumatic, scrofulous, and gouty dis- eases, as well also as in those cases in which often we are unaware on what the diseased action depends. Its object is, that a sufficiently large quantity of calomel should, at long intervals, so operate on the organism, that no salivation should be produced, because it would prevent the con- tinuance of the calomel, and suspend the operation of the mercury on the unnatural reproduction. 853. In this cure the patient takes every evening, two hours before bed-time, on an empty stomach, a powder of ten grains of calomel and fifteen of sugar, and drinks two cups of warm beef tea; half an hour after, Von den Kranklieiten der Gesichtsknochen dem Verhuten des Einsinkens der und ihrer Schleimhaute der Ausrottung eines vencrischen Nasc und der Einjetxung kunsui grossen Polypen in der linken Oberkieferhohle, Choanen. Halle, ISIS. 4to. p. 36.