87 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS endBJVvour to bring it back by mustard plasters, blisters, and cauteries ; it must be treated generally according to the severity and character of the inflammation. 51. If the inflammation have run on to exudation, and inflammatory symptoms still remain, antiphlogistic neutral salts must be employed, espe- cially bitartrate of potash; but, if accompanied with weakness and inac- tivity of the absorbents, then exciting remedies and such as act upon the kidneys must be used, as mercury, squills, digitalis, senega, and so on. If the accumulation be so great that it interferes with the active functions of important viscera, or cannot be removed by the methods already pro- posed, the fluid must be discharged by opening the cavity in which it is contained. In oedematous swelling of the cellular tissue, bags of warm aromatic herbs, mingled with camphor, must be used ; in torpid subjects, flannel fumigated with mastic and amber, and a moderate compression by means of bandages may be employed. 52. If the symptoms described (par. 10) indicate a transition of the in- flammation to suppuration, nature must be assisted in this process. In strong persons, and with a certain degree of inflammation, suppuration in general is effected without difficulty, and it is sufficient to employ a less active general treatment, emollient fomentations and poultices. If the pain be more severe, narcotic poultices may be used ; and, in decided hardness and inflammation, even blood-letting. But if, on account of the weakness of the constitution, or the toiqjid character of the inflammation, the formation of pus is tedious, it must be assisted by stimulating remedies; roasted onions, yeast, must be mixed with the poultices and applied warm. The diseased parts must be covered with rye flour and honey, with emplast. de cicutd c. ammoniaco, emp. galb., emp. diachylon comp. All these, however, may be dispensed with by the suitable and constant application of warm lotions and poultices. 53. When under this treatment of abscess its ripening has taken place, that is, if about its circumference hardness is no longer to be felt, it either opens of itself or it must be opened. Only in small abscesses just beneath the skin, and in those in glandular stnictures, may the opening be left to na- ture (1). The early opening of abscesses is not unfrequently required, and specially under the following circumstances : 1. if in sensitive parts severe pain arises from the collection of pus, and the tissue of the part is thereby rendered tough and unyielding; 2. if the pus be collected beneath muscles and firm aponeuroses, in which case its burrowing is to be dreaded; 3. in abscesses in the neighbourhood of important organs surrounded with loose cellular tissue; for instance, abscesses in the neighbourhood of the rectum or in the neck, where the pus may spread to the collar-bones; 4. in abscesses on the joints, or in the neighbourhood of other cavities, where, however bursting into these cavities is not so much to be feared as the symptoms resulting from the pressure of the pus ; 5. if the suppuration be near a bone or a tendon ; 6. if by long continuance of the inflammation the cellular tissue ben^th the skin be destroyed to a considerable extent; i. ana in critical abscess. Absce&ses in the neighbourhood of important parts are generally opened rather late, because in a large collection of pus the eWion of^the skin ensures against any injury to deep-seated parts. abscesses just beneath the skin should always be punctured early, as otherwise there is great risk of sloughing of the integument and