236 SELF-ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE. 217. On examination of tlie joint after death, produced by other dhseases, ' it liM been found, if the disease were still in its commencement, that the cartilage, at one or more places, was loosened into a fibrous mass, and ulcer- ated ; at a later period there was great destruction of the cartilage, the joint was filled with ichor, the synovial membrane and other parts of the joint disorganized. Many will not allow the possibility of primary affections of the cartilage, as the car- tilages of a movable joint must be considered as lifeless parts, which cannot take on in- flammation, do not feel the effect of irritants, and, in affections of the synovial membrane or of the bony tissue beneath it, only suffer destruction and exfoliation. Schumeb (a) has, in his experiments on animals, observed the same results as Douner and others had previously, that the joint-cartilages, laid bare, injured, and even exposed to the air, never showed any trace of inflammation, which appeared only in the bony epiphyses and synovial membrane. Gendrin (6) supports this opinion especially on the ground of the cartilage not being covered with synovial membrane; an assertion which though also put forth by others is contradicted by observation. J. B. Marc (c). According to Brodie’s and my own observations, I must consider the disease here described as different from common inflammation of the synovial membrane and of the spongy ends of bones, even although perhaps it does not always arise as a primary affec- tion of the cartilage, but is caused by partial inflammation of the synovial membrane, and of the spongy bony tissue beneath the cartilage. Meckel (d) also supposes that the cartilage in different diseases of the joints may redden, swell, soften, and loosen up, but with this peculiarity, that suppuration is not necessarily connected with their ulceration. [Sufficient has been already said in the last paragraph to prove, as seems to me, the truth of Wilson’s and Kbit’s notion of the deposit of a new and vascular substance upon the synovial membrane being the usual cause of ulceration of cartilage, and that the cause is not in the cartilage itself. It will not, therefore, require again to be adverted to further than to observe that it is quite distinct from the “ loosening of the cartilage into a fibrous mass,” spoken of in the present paragraph. This form Brodie speaks of thus :—“ We find occasionally some portion of the carti- lage covering bone, altered from its natural organization, converted into a number of ligamentous fibres, each of which is connected by one extremity to the bone, while the other is towards the cavity of the joint” (p. 113) ; and as he soon after mentions in the dissection of one such case, “ having no lateral connexion with each other” (p. 119); producing the “ brush-like projections of the cartilage and synovial membrane,” as Mayo calls them (e). This “ conversion of the cartilage into soft fibrous structure,” Brouie says, “ I am disposed to believe is the frequent, though not constant, forerunner of ulceration. In a woman who died a week after a severe contusion of the hip, the cartilage of the hip was found in some parts entirely absorbed, in others having a fibrous appearance, similar to what has been described. And 1 have noticed the same circum- stances in other cases sometimes connected with, and sometimes independent of local injury.” (p. 121.) Here, then, is a morbid alteration of structure, the occurrence of which seems to indicate that there must be such a vascular apparatus entering into the formation of cartilages as enables new materials to be deposited and old materials to be absorbed, and without which morbid alterations of structure do not take place in other parts of the body.” (p. 113.) Brodie (/) further observes:—“ The degeneration of the cartilage into a fibrous structure is no uncommon circumstance; and 1 suspect that it is one cause of the crackling of the joints, which is not uncommonly met with in persons somewhat advanced in life. I have no doubt that it often exists where it is never fol- lowed by ulceration; but I am also well assured that, in many other instances, it pre- cedes, and, in fact, forms, the first stage of the disease.” (p. 339.) In regard to this “ degeneration of the cartilage of a joint into a fibrous structure,” which Key holds as a distinct form, and describes as tlie third mode of ulceration of cartilage, he says:—“ As far as my observations have enabled me to judge, it is a disease of a peculiar character, and differing in many respects from the ordinary affection of joints that end in the destruc- tion of the cartilage. I have had but few opportunities of verifying by dissection the (n) Diss. deCartilBginum Articulorum cxMorbis (2i) llistoirc Anatomique dea Inflammations. Paris, 1936. 2 vols. Svo.