DIVISION OF THE STRICTUEE. 747 astic catheter may then be passed. If the urethra at the seat of stricture 3 completely closed and degeneratetl, a staff must be, as in the former ise introduced down to the stricture, and laid bare by a proper cut irou^h all the covering parts, the liardened part of tlie urethra must be iken°hold of M'itli the forceps, and cut out with the knife or scissors, 4er which an elastic catheter is to be introduced through the urethra ito the bladder, and properly fastened. The wound is either to be lightly (led witli lint, or covered with a wet sponge. This operation is always itticult and dangerous ; considerable bleeding, violent inflammation, and asting suppuration and the like, may be its consequences. But it is ?rtaiiily very rarely necessary, as with proper attention and perseve- mce, the most cofisiderable stricture may be overcome, and by proper vision of the fistulous passages, the obstacles preventing the cure may ; removed. [The operation of dividing the stricture, when it has become so tight that the urine ill not pass by it, but only by the fistulous opening, is not, or onght not, to be attended ith either difficulty or danger, but should never be nndertaken without the Surgeon well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts. It differs in no respect from the eration in the perinceum performed constantly, for cases of retention of urine from •icture, and which if there be either no extravasation of urine or but little, rarely do herwise than well, and both retention and stricture are at once relieved. When ■ere is perinaal fistula, there is more difficulty in the operation than in simple stricture, icause the neighbouring parts are always thickened, and their natural character greatly tered; and also after the stricture has been divided, and a large catheter introduced to the bladder, the sides of the fistula having acquired a mucous-membranous-like laracter, are little disposed to heal unless their surface be destroyed and new granula- ms encouraged. The operation is best performed by introducing the catheter down to the stricture, and en finding its point by cutting straight through the raphe, till the catheter point is I posed, which is to be the guide for the subsequent part of the operation. It is very ivisable that the external wound should be free ; a large clean cut wound heals almost ' readily as a small one, and it is preferable, not only as giving the operator more am to act upon the part specially to be acted on, but also is less likely to slough, he- ■use the tearing and pulling commonly necessary with a small wound to make room, lich cannot even then be obtained, almost invariably produces sloughing. When the lint of the catheter has been found, the dissection is to be prosecuted backwards in the ick of the urethra, and from time to time the wound must be examined with a director a female catheter, of which the point should be directed backwards and upwards, the itient being at the same time desired to force, so that the flow of urine may direct to 3 aperture in the urethra. It is also very good practice to introduce the finger into 3 rectum, so as to prevent the director or catheter being thrust into the rectum or be- een the bladder and pubes, which I have known done, and produce very serious osequences. With patience and tenderness the under end of the urethra may be nerally found, and the catheter from the upper part of the urethra must be pushed rough it into the bladder, and there left. I do not approve of cutting away the rdened part of the urethra, as recommended by Chelius, as it is quite needless, for p inflammation and suppuration, if not even the slight sloughing which may ensue, B11 remove this without further trouble, whilst cutting away the urethra is more liliely ■do harm than good, by increasing the cavity to be filled up, and consequently affording p)re opportunity for burrowing of pus. If the fistula have been of long standing, it i ly be necessary to brush its surface over with caustic, to destroy its mucous character, i J. F. S.] j'967. In a, fistula of the urethra or bladder, communicating with the \ ctum, (Fistula recto-urethralis et vesicalis,) and consequent on wound, I in cutting for the stone, puncturing tlie bladder through the rectum, I rough catheterism, or long continued in-lying of a catheter in tlie I adder, from foreign bodies in the rectum, or from suppuration, especially I old persons, and the like, the urine mostly escapes by the rectum.