269 EXFOLIATION FROM THE HIP-JOINT. S tuuity, after the subsequent death of tlie patient, to examine, by dissection, the reduction Ip and condition of the joint. j i \ 247. If collections of pus take place, winch are often very far spread, and accompanied with nuicli pain and increased hectic consumption, they must I be opened with a sufficiently large cut, and care taken in the application of warm poultices for the proper escape of the pus; and the powers of the I patient are to be kept up by tonic remedies and good diet. In scrofulous j persons, the cod-liver oil is particularly advantageous. If collections of |i pus take place after acute coxalgy, a speedy cure often takes place under |! the preceding mode of treatment. The same course must be pursued with I fistulous passages. Different opinions are lield as to the treatment of these abscesses, in reference to their I dispersion by the application of caustic (Ford,) of seton (Wend, van der Haar,) of actual p cautery (Rust.) Brodie and Ja;ger have never seen any result from the actual cautery, ji, and my experience is the same. The greatest number of Surgeons leave the opening of ti these abscesses to nature, in which case the pus flows out more slowly, and the hectic con- 1 sumption does not increase in the same degree as in the artificial opening: they advise ( only, in great and continued tension, and constant uncontrollable pain, a simple puncture; i whilst othere recommend an early opening. The aperture itself is advised to be made I by caustic, (S^vbatier, Ficher,) by the red-hot trocar, (Larrey,) and by the actual 1 cautery (Rust.) The latter further recommends drawing a seton through the whole joint, by means of a trocar and an edged probe, in order that, after remaining there a few days, it may produce a severe inflammatory process in the deep-seated parts, a mode of proceeding which is certainly more likely to hasten death than improvement. Larger incisions, as recommended specially by Brodie, J.®ger, and others, have certainly the preference over the above-described mode of treatment, and more simply and satisfac- torily support nature in throwing off the diseased bone, and so on. Injections of decoc- tion of bark, of oak bark, or of walnut leaves, with tincture of myrrh, turpentine, and so on, are useless, and nearly always injurious. [As regards the opening of abscesses at the hip, Brodie notices, that “ an abscess con- nected with any joint, but particularly one connected with the hip, does not form a regular cavity, but usually makes numerous and circuitous sinuses in the interstices of the muscles, tendons, and fasciae, before it presents itself under the integuments. It is, therefore, less easy to evacuate its contents, than those of an ordinary lumbar abscess ; and, indeed, it can seldom be emptied without handling and compressing the limb, in order to press the matter out of the sinuses in which it lodges. But this is often attended with very ill consequences. Inflammation takes place of the cyst of the abscess, and pus is again very rapidly accumulated. Small blood vessels give way on its inner sur- face, the bloody discharge of which, mixed with the newly secreted pus, goes into pu- trefaction, and exceedingly irritates the general system.” (p. 160.) He, therefore, states :—“ The practice which has appeared to me to be, on the whole, the best, is the following:—An opening having been made with an abscess lancet, the limb may be wrapped up in a flannel wrung out of hot water, and this may be continued as long as the matter continues to flow of itself. In general, when a certain quantity has escaped, the discharge ceases; the orifice heals, and the puncture may then be repeated some time afterwards ; but where the puncture has not become closed, I have seldom found any ill consequences to arise from its remaining open.” (p. 161.) On the whole, I think it preferable not to meddle with abscesses of the hip-joint, un- less they excite much constitutional irritation, until the skin is on the point of ulcerating • then they may be punctured, and rarely untoward symptoms follow. J. F. S.] °' 248. If, under this treatment, the general and local condition improve if separate pieces of bone are thrown otf, which are removed in tlie usual way, one or other opening, however, generally remains fistulous, and may so continue, without detriment, for years ; often closing after repeated separa- tions of bone, or, in younger persons, they close on the approach of pubertv If the carious destruction, however, continue, and the hectic consumption be in no way checked, examination must be made with the finger merely of the ^nes of the head of tlie thigh-bone, and if the soft parts are not too much undermined and destroyed, the cutting off the head of the thigh-bone •