729 OPERATION. « In speakiiv^ of large abscesses which sometimes form high up by the side of the ectum and above tlie sphincter muscle, Brodie makes the following excellent obserya- ions—“ When the existence of such an abscess is ascertained, you ought without delay 0 puncture it; oUierwise not only will the patient have to undergo a great deal of inuecessary pain, but the abscess will extend itself in the pelvis until it attains an •normous sv/e. You must ascertain the situation of the abscess, by observing to what lart the pain is referred, and by examining the rectum with the finger. 1 hen introduce 1 lancet through the external skin by the side of the anus, in the direction of the abscess, intil the matter flows. Frequently the abscess is at such a depth that the lancet does lot reach it until nearly the whole of the blade has penetrated the soft parts; and some- inies an ordinary lancet is scarcely of sufficient length to accomplish what is wanted, fou are then to introduce a probe-pointed bistoury through the opening thus made, jid divide the rectum at the lower part of the abscess, carrying the incision downwards, o as to include the sphincter ani muscle, as you would in an ordinary case of fistula. These incisions make a free opening into the abscess, which is immediately emptied of ts contents. The wound is then to be dressed in the ordinary way, and nothing more ■5 wanted. It is quite unnecessary, in these cases, to lay the whole abscess open into the ectum; the free division of it at the lower part is suflBcient; and if the incision were to xtend further, it might give rise to a dangerous haimorrhage from large blood-vessels ■eyond the reach of the finger. I have met with abscesses, such as I have now described, ontaining from half a pint to a pint of matter. I have had no opportunities of dissec- ion so as to ascertain their exact locality; but from examinations made with the finger, fter they have been opened, I am led to suspect that their usual situation is betweeu he levator ani muscle and the pelvis, and that the division of the lower part of this Quscle, as well as that of the whole of the sphincter ani, is necessary to the cure. “ These large pelvic abscesses occur in some instances as the original and only malady, n other cases, as I explained in my last lecture, they are the result of an abscess lower .own, or a common fistula. I have met with several cases such as I am about to escribe. I have been consulted concerning a fistula near the lower part of the rectum, ^hich I have layed open in the usual manner. But, after some time, I have found that tie parts showed no disposition to heal, or that they healed imperfectly, and that there ^as a discharge of pus much greater than could be accounted for from the apparent xtent of the sore surface. I have thus been led to make a further examination; and t the upper part of the sinus which had been previously laid open, I have discovered a mall orifice, through which a long probe might be passed to a great depth. I have lid open the lower part of this upper abscess into the rectum, and could then introduce ly finger so as to feel the broad inner surface of the pelvis on one side, and what eemed to be the levator ani, on the other. After this second operation, the purulent lischarge has immediately become much reduced in quantity, and in the course of a hort time the patient’s cure has been completed.” (p. 186.)] 930. The usual modes of operating on rectal fistulas are incision and igature, as the early mode of treatment with the hot iron or caustic is ■ow put ^ide, and cutting out the fistula must be confined to those cases n which it is connected with scirrhous or carcinomatous degeneration. 931. For the operation on the rectal fistula by cutting a quantity of instruments have been invented, as the syringctome, the curved bistoury, he special apparatus of Drummond, Rettuer and Brambilla, the istula-knife of Pott, Savigni, Remm, Dzondi, and others. But the oost simple and certain proceeding is, when, for cutting the wall of the stula only a common straight bistoury, a grooved probe without a blind ■omt, and a wooden gorget are used. After having emptied the rectum nth a clyster and removed the hair in the neighbourhood of the fistula he patient IS to be laid in his bed, or on a couch upon the side of the I stula, with the thigh of the affected side stretched out straight, and the ther bent towards the pelvis. The grooved probe is to be introduced hrough the canal of the fistula and its internal opening into the rectum i^.here it is found by the finger which has been therein introduced S directed to- arcls the side of the fistula, and the probe pressed against it. The probe