354 TREATMENT OF tension of the skin is more enduring, and does not begin to subside till eighteen or twenty-four hours have elapsed, but then both disappear ^gradually, and after four or five days no traces of the injury remain, excepting that the patient is a little languid ' In the cases under my own care I have never applied any caustic, and in those where nitrate of silver has been applied, I do not believe it has Iteen of any real use; for, unless a wound be very large, it will rarely penetrate much below the surface. I do not, there- fore, think it useful. How oiling the part acts I do not pretend to explain; but although Dr. Meade and the French Academy deny its efficacy, it is a fact beyond doubt that grease does very speedily relieve the pain and remove all the symptoms. Hence the vulgar practice of killing the viper, if it can be caught, and rubbing its fat over the bitten and swollen part, of which Meade was well aware, for he says (a) “ Though they (the viper-catchers) keep it as a great secret, I have, however, upon strict inquiry found it out to be no other than the Axungia viperina presently rubbed into the wound. And to convince myself of its good effects 1 enraged a viper to bite a young : dog in the nose: both the teeth were struck deep in; he howled bitterly, and the part i began to swell. I diligently applied some of the axungia I had ready at hand, and he was very well the next day.” (pp. 45, C.) The practice of applying a ligature above the wound from a venomous bite is at ; least as old and probably much older than Celsds, who says:—“ Igitur in primis supra i vulnus id membrum deligandum est; non tamen nimium vehementer, ne torpeat.”—lib. ■ V. cap. xxvii. Astley Cooper recommended this practice, and, indeed, himself had re- • course to it when bitten by a viper, which recovered itself after having been frozen, as he carelessly held it in his hand, whilst lecturing. Home also says:—“The only rational ;! local treatment, to prevent the secondary mischief, is applying ligatures above the tmne- -i fied part, to compress the cellular membrane, and set bounds to the swelling, which only « i spreads in the loose parts under the skin, and scarifying freely the parts already swollen, that the effused serum may escape, and the matter be discharged as soon as it is formed, The practice of sucking venomous bites was well known to the ancients. A people of « Africa, called Psiflli, were celebrated for their cure of serpent-bites, which they effected d •by applying their mouth to the wound, and sucking out the poison. The Italian Mani sj' also pretended to the same power. Celsus observes, with regard to this practice:—“ Ne- ' i que hercule scientiam prascipuam habent hi, qui Psylli nominantur, sed audaciam usu a ipso confirmatam. Nam venenum serpentis, ut qumdam etiam venatoria venena, quibus a Gallis precipue utuntur, non gustu, sed in vulnere nocent. Ergo quisquis exeraplum a PsyUi secutus, id vulnus exsuxerit, et ipse tutus erit, et tutum hominem preestabit”—lib. iv V. cap. xxvii. The truth of the observation, that the poison is not hurtful in the month i but in the wound, has since been fully proved by Russell. But it may be presumtd -j from Celsus’s concluding observation, that practice was not very general even in his a time, tliough he vouched for its safety. Meade thought this mode of cure ought to be re-1- vived, the following remarkable case having occurred a few years before he wrote, which ; confirmed his opinion:—“ A man was bit on one of his fingers by a rattlesnake just then . brought over from Virginia. He immediately put his finger into his mouth and sucked ^ the wound. His underlip and tongue were presently swelled to a great degree; be t faltered in his speech, and in some measure lost his senses. He then drank a large quan-.i tity of oil, and warm water upon it, by which he vomited plentifully. A live pigeon • was cut in two and applied to the finger. Two hours after this, the flesh about the', wound was cut out, and the part burnt with a hot iron, and the arm embrocated with warm oil. He then recovered his speech and his senses. His arm continued swelK'd the next day; but by common applications soon grew easy, and the patient suffered n< farther mischief. As the poison of this snake is more quick and deadly than any othei that we know, a remedy for this will most certainly prove effectual against that o) smaller vipers, and all other creatures of this kind.” (pp. 40, 41). The Doctor do« not think that, excepting the vomit, any of the other applications were of use, auo “ embrocating the arm with oil only abated the swelling;” which view of the case la held confirmed by the physicians of the Academy of Paris, who, after making experi- ments with oil, “ pronounced it ineffectual.” He, therefore, recommends^ that “ tw first thing to be done upon the bite of a viper of any kind is that the patient shouk immediately suck the wound if he can come at it; if he cannot, another person sbouli do this good office for him. Whoever does it, ought (to prevent any inflammation o the lips and tongue from the heat of the poison) to wash his mouth well beforehanc with warm oil, and hold some of this in the mouth while the suction is performing After this is over, it will be projier to give a vomit. A dose of rad. ipecac., aged in the working with oil and warm water, may be sufficient. The good efiect o (a) A Mechanical Account of Poisons. London. 8vo. First Edit., 1702. Fourth Edit. 1.4<-