391 WITH IMPRESSION. ’ penetrated. A blunt or flat-ended probe should in such cases be care^lly passed Kthe wound, and being gently pressed against one of the cut edges of the bone, its kness may be measured, and the presence or absence of the inner table m^iy he rtained. If it should be separated from the diploe, the continued but eareful mser- ofthe probe will detect it deeper in the wound; a further careful investagation will r the extent in length of this separation, although not in width; and will in £ul pro- lity satisfy the surgeon that those portions of bone whieh have thus been broken driven in, are sticking in or irritating the brain. In many such cases there has not been more than a momentary stunning felt by the patient; he says he is free from symptoms, that he is not much hurt, and is satisfied he shall be well in a few days. (p. 86.)] 393. According to the result of close observation and experience, the dangers of clefts and fractures of the skull are in this respect exaggerated. They are very diiferent, according to the degree of violence by which they are produced, according to the condition of the bones of the skull and the other injuries and affections of the brain which may be connected with them. They frequently occur as simple injuries of bone, without splinter- ing or separation of the dura mater, without further and irregular radiation of the internal table, and they heal by simple treatment of the wound and strict antiphlogistic remedies, repeated blood-letting, purgatives, and cold applications. It is therefore not advisable, with the mere object of dis- covering some cleft or fracture of the skull, to cut into the soft parts, if no other circumstances require it. If the fracture of the skull be accom- panied with much splintering, as in starred fractures and so on, and the splinters which irritate and injure the dura mater cannot be removed, or if symptoms of extravasation and pressure of the brain be present, and the edges of the bone be so close that the extravasation cannot escape, then trepanning is requisite. [Chelius’s views on this important point are extremely correct; it is quite time Bnough to make cuts through the scalp and trephine the skull when symptoms have oc- curred : it should never be thought of otherwise. The less done as regards meddling inth fractures of the skull, the better; they never should be interfered with except impression be present.—J. F. S.] 394. If in fracture of the skull one edge of the bone sink inwards, it is called Fracture of the Skull with impression {Fractura Cranii cum im- pressio7ie.) In indented skull-bones, especially in children, indentation is possible without fracture (1) ; just as in persons of middle age, the external table may be pressed into the diploe without fracture of the internal table (2). The indentation is always discoverable by the touch, and with careful examination can always be distinguished from the bump with a hard edge (3). Often a whole piece of the skull is broken off and depressed ; often is there a starred fracture; often the external table is still whole, and the internal sprung. Indentations of the skull are nearly always accompanied with severe injury of its coverings, with separation of the dura mater, injury of the vessels, and extravasation. The effects of indentation of the skull are symptoms of pressure on the brain, inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes. In rare cases, however, even severe indentations are at first un- connected with any bad symptoms; those of pressure and irritation come on at a later period. [(1) The extent to which the skull may be indented in children, without symptoms of compression, is almost incredible. I remember a case under my friend Green some »y^rs ago, in which a child, about three or four years old, had the skull indented, near «tie upper part of the lambdoidal suture, so deeply that the bowl of a dessert spoon iwonld easily lie in it. The child had no symptoms of pressure: little more was done