388 CUTS AND operations, is attended with the disagreeable circumstance of the brain’s protrudini?" (pp. 76, 7.)] 388. Cals of the Shall have either a vertical or an oblique direction ' by whicli a piece of the bone may be perfectly cut off, or still hanging in tlie flaps of the soft parts. These wounds are either simply superficial, or penetrate into the diplo'e, or even into the cavity of the skull, and are pro- duced with either a sharp or a hlunt instrument. [“ It is worthy of remark,” says Hennkn, “ that the sabre wounds on the top of the head are not by any means so dangerous as those on the sides; this I have often had occasion to observe in my own practice, as well as from the report of others. In some sabre wounds which divide the skull across the sagittal suture, the longitudinal sinus has been occasionally opened and bled profusely, but without inducing fatal consequence*. I have seen this sinus opened by splinters, but never saw any thing approaching to ■ dangerous hemorrhage from it; in truth, the bleeding from wounds of the head is one • principal source of the patient’s safety.” (pp. 283, 84.) Thomson observes, that “ in the cases in which the sabre had struck the head perpeajj • dicularly, the effects which it produced were exceedingly diversified. In some case* i the external table of the cranium was divided, the internal remaining uninjured. In a i Frenchman who had received twenty sabre cuts in different parts of the body, and who > died from the symptomatic fever appearing to arise from the high degree of inflamni0 - tion attendant upon a wound of the elbow-joint, there were found, on examination after r death, not fewer than thirteen cuts of the upper part of the cranium, penetrating only it* * external table, without any inflammation having been communicated to the brain and i its membranes. In other cases both tables were divided, and the edges of the internal J turned in upon the brain and its membranes. In almost all these cases exfoliations of a a greater or smaller extent were taking place, and retarding the completion of the cure.” " (pp. 51, 2.)] 389. Superficial Wounds caused by a sharp instrument, penetrating to e the diploe, or through the internal table of the skull, without splitting and i much bruising of the skull, if the internal parts be uninjured, and no sign^< of extravasation present, require quick union, strict antiphlogistic treat- • ment, and continued use of cooling applications. If suppuration take place^* the proper discharge of the pus must be attended to, and the wound bounds up with soothing remedies. But if the wound be made with a hlunt* sword, and accompanied with splintering of the bone, the splinters driven t in, piercing the dura mater, and not to be removed by the existing wound; or if there be also decided symptoms of extravasation within the skull|fl and the edges of the bone be not so far asunder that the extravasations and secretion from the wound escape freely, immediate trepanning is re-;' quired. If a piece of bone completely cut off, still hang to a flap of' the soft parts, the latter may be laid down, if there be no splintering,i- with the piece of bone, and union attempted by stitches, sticking plaster,’ and a suitable bandage: the possibility of the union of such pieces of bone is proved by experience. But if the flaps be already swollen, or the piece of bone cannot, as in most cases, be closely applied, it is advisable tc remove it, and then to unite the flap. [Hennen mentions that in some sabre cuts “inflicted by our own and the Frai^ dragoons in Spain and Belgium, sections of the scalp, cranium, and even of the br^ii were frequently made, and in many instances were successfully treated by simply layin|- the parts together.” (p. 282.) And the same may also happen in the more severe Mt' irregular fractures produced by balls, of which he mentions a preparation, where *‘i large part of the frontal bone, nearly four inches in circumference, including the super- ciliary ridge and subjacent frontal sinus, is carried outward and overlaps the tempera fossa: the bony union is nearly complete; while a musket ball is lodged deep in th< anterior lobe of the brain. The man died two months after the accident.” (p. 29^^ The union of such slices of the skull is by no means uncommon, as almost every patho* logical museum amply proves.—j. f. s.