TREATMENT OF 512 ■when mortification has come on; and if there be offensive smell, a cloth dipped into solution of chlorate of soda may be put next the wound.—J. F. S.] 589. To keep tlie limb at perfect rest and firm after properly .setting ‘ the fracture, and to prevent, at every readjustment of the apparatus, the easy occurrence of motion and displacement of the ends of the bones, various means have been proposed, which when once applied are to remain till the cure be perfected. Larkey (a) describes the following as the best treatment for compound (as well as for simple) fractures. After enlarging the wound if necessary, the effused blood is, as far as possible, to be squeezed out, any wounded vessel tied, and the setting adjusted, the edges of the wound are to be brought together, and steadied with some perforated strips of linen spread with ung. stgracis, and with soft charpie and compresses over- spread with a glutinous tonic liquor, as wine or camphorated acid, mixed with white of egg. These compresses must surround the whole limb so closely that not the least space is to be left between them, and so that they should produce equal pressure on all sides; the usual splints may be profitably applied. After the application of a sufficient numlier of compresses the eighteen-tailed bandage (which is preferable to Scultetus’s) should be put on. This dressing must be reapplied once or twice before the completion of the cure, and the secretion of the wound which has filtered through must be removed with a sponge. This treatment has the advantage of preventing the frequent and always dangerous movements which occur in the often necessary renewal of the ordinary con- tentive apparatus. But we obtain the same advantage from the use of the contrivance subsequently to be described, for permanent extension, by which also the injury is pre- vented arising from retention of the secretion of the wound and loosened splinters of ' bone, especially at a hot time of year. This mode of treatment, viz., the undisturbed application of the apparatus, is common with the Spanish military Surgeons, and may be ■ also employed in gun-shot wounds (6), and so on. Corresponding to this is the plaker ■ of Paris apparatus, with which the whole broken limb is enveloped, and as it becomes i firm it serves instead of splints and every kind of bandage; and by making aperture^j, either at first or subsequently, in the hardened mass, the wounds and so on can be : attended to (c). Seutin (d) envelopes the whole limb in the ordinary way with Scultetus’s bandage,, which he smears with starch paste, then applies a second Scuetetus’s bandage over it,, and repeats the starching; two pasteboard splints softened in warm water and also > smeared with starch are laid on both sides of the leg, and fastened with a third Scdltb- - Tus’s bandage, which is also smeared over with starch. In fractures of the upper r extremity, the limb is to be surrounded with a circular bandage smeared with starch,, over which softened pasteboard splints are applied, which are to be fastened with another r circular bandage, and this again smeared with starch. When his apparatus has dried,, it becomes so firm that the broken ends of the bone cannot be displaced by the motions s of the limb, which even the patient himself can move from time to time; in fractures of i the lower limbs he can, after some time, even walk with the apparatus. The apparatns i must always be applied before much swelling comes on, and with the greatest accuracy, the particulars of which will be given in the several fractures. [Some Surgeons have great preference for the several fracture-apparatus of Ames- f BURY (e), the general principle of which in those for the lower limbs is to make one parti of the limb form a point of resistance from whence extension can be made and kept up at ii the opposite end without other aid than the machine itself. This having been done so o (/i) Memoiresurune nouvellemanieredereduire ou do trailer'les Fractures des Membres com- .pliques de Plaies; in the Journal Complementaire du Uictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, January, 1825, p. 193. Larrey, F. H., Traitement des Fractures des Membres par FApparcil inamovible. Paris, 1842. 4to. Koch, L., UeberBehandlung: mit Wunden com- plicirter Knochenbniche; in Journal von GbaKfe n. WAI.THEB, vol. xiii. p. 5G4. Balling, uber Complicirte Fracturen; ib. vol. xiv. p. 1. {b) Koche ct Sanson, Elemens de Pathologic Medico-Chirurgicnle. 2nd Edit., vol. iii. p. 422. Eton, W., A Survey of the Turkish Empire ; in which are considered its government, the state of the provinces, tlie causes of tlic decline of Turkey, and the British commerce witli Turkey, &c. I.^- don,1798-9. Svo. . Melier, in tlie Journal General de Medecine, ti December, 1828, p. 341. (c) Muttray, J. A., Dissert, de Criiribus fraetii ^ „ J ill U 1 i IV A I , W • ..., V. Bjpso liquefactocurandis. Berol., 1831. Svo. UiCHTKR, A. L., Abhandlungen aus dem Gt- biete der prakt. Medicin und Chirnrgie, Berlin, • 1832, p.l. „ (d) Memoire sur le Bandage Inamovible. Hm* xelles, 1836. . Behabd ; in Archives Generales de Mcdeane, 1833, June, p. 218. ...on-. Roqnktta ; in tlie Gaictte Mcdicale de l aris, 1834, April, No. 17. _ , (e) Practical Remarks on the Nature and li« * ment of Fractures, &c., 2 vols. Svo. Ixmoon, 18:11.