256 SHORTENING AND LENGTHENING soiiKitimcs drawn up more, and sometimes put out further than the other. Mr. Ci.ink ^ says the Umh is actually longer and shorter in different stages of the disease, and ac- * Coujits for it thus :—In the first instance, iufiamination takes place in the ligaments of J the joints, occasioning the parts to swell, and a larger quantity of synovia to Ixj accu- . mulated in the joint, which displaces and pushes out the head of the femur, thus occa- sioning a lengthening of the limb ; but as the disease advances absorption takes place, ' not only of the accumulated synovia, but also of the bone itself, with the surromiditig ligaments ; and the head of the bone being drawn into the new-enlarged cavity by the i action of the gluteal and other muscles, occasions a shortening of the limb; and tliis ! lengthening and shortening of the limb is peculiarly evident on laying the patient on i the belly.” (p. 595.) i “ In order to form a correct judgment” upon the actual state of the limb. Law- \ RENCE (a) says, “ you must strip the patient, and make the examination on a straight i horizontal surface. You will then immediately observe the position of the pelvis and i discover the cause of the apparent elongation or shortening of the affected limb. At all events, you may remove every doubt as to the apparent or manifest shortening or elon- gation, by measuring on each side from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the patella; tliis will enable you to ascertain whether there is a real, or only a seeming alteration in the length. The change, liowever, in the subsequent period of the affec- tion is quite a different matter. The disease, as it proceeds, is attended with destruction of the ligamentum teres, with ulcerative destruction of the orbicular ligament of the hip-joint, with destruction and ulceration of the head of the thigh-bone, and of parts of the acetabulum. Thus all the causes which would prevent the muscles from retracting | the limb are removed; the muscles, therefore, draw the extremity upwards and out- I wards, and a real shortening to the extent of some inches, is the consequence.” (p. 485.)] I 233. The shortening of the extremity which, commonly, occurs in the I first period of acute inflammation of the hip-joint, is always a seeming I shortening dependent on a shifting upwards of the pelvis on the diseased I side. Ail other explanations given of this shortening are incorrect, and I incompatible with the true situation of the hip-joint; such as Rust’s, and I specially Fricke’s, explanation, that, by violent muscular contraction, I which occurs in this acute inflammation of the joint, the head is pressecl I deeper into the socket, and thereby the shortening of the limb is produced. I Fricke (6) seeks to ground his opinion on the circumstance, that the leg in its I healthy condition may be shortened by volimtary effort of the muscles of the thigh, I —as every one may prove on himself. But this assumption is quite incorrect, and I whoever makes the experiment on himself or on some other person, will, if, at the same I moment when the thigh is retracted, the hands are placed on both hip-bones, easily and I decidedly be convinced that the retraction of the extremity depends only on the eleva- I tion of the hip-bone. It is perfectly inadmissible to explain the shortening by the com- ■ pressibility of the cartilaginous overspreading of the head of the thigh-bone and its ■ socket. In the severe paiufulness of the acute inflammation of the hip-joint, the thigi ■ is always more or less bent and drawn up towards the belly; the muscles are no doub. I contracted, but at the same time the patient di’aws up the pelvis, especially if, as^ usual, I he lies bent towards the sound side, and the extent of this drawing up of the pelvis is m ■ close dependence upon the degree of painfulness and upon the position which the patient ■ constantly assumes. We therefore observe the same in bruises of the parte alwut tlie ■ hip-joint, and in every painful affection of the thigh and hip. An unprejudiced oliser- ■ vation and attentive measuring, will convince every one of the truth of the statement ■ here advanced. I have observed two cases of traumatic inflammation of the hip-jqint, ■ in which this seeming shortening of the extremity had led the medical attendants into ■ the belief of a luxation, and to the employment of very improper means for its reduction. ■ 234. The lengthening of tlie e.xtreniity wliich occurs iii chronic, and in ■ tlie latter course of the acute coxalgia, when morbid changes have been ■ set up in the joint, may be either seeming or real. The seeming lengthen- ■ ing is here again dependent on the shifting of the pelvis, because the iiatient ■ in the tedious course of this disease still limps about, and in doing s<)thro\\s-B the weight of the whole body upon the sound extremity, and, by this means ((() LectureH in Lancet. (6) Above ciltNl- I