222 STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. The joint is now a good deal swollen and fluctuating, especially above the base of the knee-cap, and on the condyles of the thigh-bone, and less distinctly below the former bone. It is tender on pressure about the middle of the joint on the outsidi*, and alx)ve the knee-cap on the inside. He has great pain on the slightest motion : pain on striking up the leg; and on pressing the articulating surfaces together, and twisting the leg upon the thigh causes severe pain; but no grating of the bones can be felt, though perhaps it might be, were not the movement of the limb so painful as to forbid persisting in attempts to ascertain it. As I felt pretty confident that the joint contained pus, I determined, although it did not point, to evacuate it, and try if it were possible to bring about anchylosis by keeping the parts perfectly quiet, and establishing issues to promote a diversion of the irritation of the joint. And therefore in the afternoon of this day, Aug. 19. Made a puncture with an abscess lancet on the outside of the base of the knee-cap, where the skin was thinnest. Blood fiowed rather freely (about two ounces) at first, but on introducing a director about an ounce of synovial fluid escaped. As no pus appeared, and as the director did not give the sensation of touching any articular surface, I presumed I had only opened the bursa above the knee-cap, and thought it best to close the wound and obtain adhesion as soon as possible, by bringing the edges together with adhesive plaister; for although blood continued flowing from between the lips of the wound, I expected the slight pressure would stop it. The tension was dimi- nished, and the patient was relieved from pain on the inside of the knee immediately on the discharge. Shortly after the wound had been brought together the knee began to swell again and feel distended, and in about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes the oozing of blood, which had been rather free, was converted into a stream, which flowed freely, and was checked partially by pressure on the artery at the hiji-joint, but still the bleeding continued for some time, and he lost twenty-six ounces of blood, when he became very faint. The swelling of the knee, which had been at first very hard gradually diminished and softened as the blood flowed. A tourniquet was applied high up, and the bleeding completely arrested. But he had become so faint and his pulse so weak and fluttering, that it was necessary to give him five ounces of wine and four ounces of brandy before he could be brought round. Two hours after, I saw him again; he had then rallied, but was still very pale, and his pulse small, weak, and quick. The swelling of the knee, however, being soft, and no hajmorrhage having recurred, the tourniquet was removed, and an evaporating lotion applied to the knee. I presumed that the bleeding depended entirely on the increased vascularity of the synovial membrane, and not from wound of either of the articular arteries, which, how- ever, might have been the cause. The almost immediate recurrence of the swelling is accounted for by the closure of the wound preventing the external escape of the flowing blood, which was therefore retained in the synovial cavity. No further bleeding occur- red ; but as his health continued failing, it was determined to amputate the knee, which I did, and he recovered. On examining the joint, the whole of the synovial membrane lining the capsular and extending over the other ligaments of the joint was found covered with a vascular, thick, soft, and granular substance. The cartilage on the edge of the patella was partially absorbed, as also that on the left articular cavity of the head of the tibia in a semi-circular form, and on both condyles of the thigh-bone it was partially removed, these corresponded to the granular substance on the synovial membrane; and a groove on the cartilage of the internal condyle answered to a remarkable slip of the granular substance, which crossed between and connected the capsular and crucial ligaments. There was not any pus on the joint; but the wound by which the lancet had entered, as it proved to have done, was distinct—J. F. S.] C.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE CARTILAGES. 216. The joint-cartilages may be the primary seat of inflammation {^Injlammatio Cartilaginum, Lat. ; Entziindung der Knorpel, Germ.; Injlammation des Cartilages, Fr.) and ulceration, which may thence be propagated over the other structures of the joint. [Before considering the effects of inflammation, and its results on cartilage, it will be well to take a view of the opinions which have been, and are, held as regards its vascularity