490 TREATMENT OP WOUNDS OF JOINTS. got rid of. The wound is to be covered with a compress, and the joint kept in the most perfect quiet, being steadied with splints and with a circular bandage. The patient must be put under strict antiphlogistic treatment. If no inflammation ensues the wound heals quickly ; but if the wound be long exposed to the influence of the air, if the patient move the joijit, if the treatment or dietetic relations be not suitable, if there be a dyscrasic disposition, or if the wound itself be .very large, frequently soon after the accident, oftentimes some days after, a severe pain comes on in the joint, which, at every motion, is remarkably increased ; tense, shining swelling, and great heat; the edges of the wound swell; a quantity of thin serous fluid is discharged ; the swelling often spreads over a greater part of the limb ; the fever is very high, frequently accompanied with wan- dering and with spasmodic symptoms. The swelling at last loses its ten- sion ; suppuration in the joint takes place, oftentimes also under the skin at greater or less distance from the joint; the skin breaks, the suppuration deteriorates, the pain continues, and death ensues, either sooner from the severity of these symptoms, or from the copious ill-conditioned suppura- tion, and the gradual consumption of the patient’s powers, if amputation of the limb be not had recourse to at the proper time. The most happy result under these circumstances is the uniting of the joint-ends of the bones {Anchylosis.^ Only by a suitable practice from the very first can the dispersion of the inflammation be effected. [Astley Cooper’s treatment of “ a wound in the knee-joint from one to two inches in length, consisted in a fine needle and thread being passed through the skin only, (avoiding the ligaments,) and bringing the edges of the external wound together; for a wound in the joint is different to most (all) others, as the synovia has a constant ten- dency to force a passage outwards, and it is more abundantly secreted than usual, so that adhesive plaster is apt to be separated and union prevented ; lint, therefore, dipped in blood, is applied over the surface of the wound-plaster over it; then the surface of the knee is to be covered with soft linen dipped in a lotion of liq. plumb, suhacet.: after wliich a splint is placed below the limb to prevent all motion of the injured joint, and positive rest is enjoined.” (p. 251.) The employment of stitches is, for the reason assigned by John Hdnter, improper, and therefore unadvisable. But as Astley Cooper justly observes, the increased secre- tion of synovia has a constant tendency to burst the edges of the wound apart. Con- trolling the secretion of that fluid, as far as possible, is therefore a material point in the treatment, and can only be effected by keeping down the increased action of the vessels of the part with the application of cold evaporating lotions. With this view, the practice advised by Abernethy, and which I have employed successfully, is, I believe, the best. He did not use any stitches, but having fixed the limb in the position in which he purposed it should remain, (and the bent posture is bes^ so as to be provided in case suppuration and destruction of the joint should ensue,) he carefully brought the edges of the wound together with sticking plaster; and then having brushed the plaster over with a varnish of sealing-wax and spirits of wine, which hardens in a few minutes, it was rendered impervious to moisture; so that without detaching the plaster and depriving the wound of its support, a piece of linen dipped in evaporating wash could be laid over the whole surface of the joint, and repeated, as necessary, so as to regulate the temperature and inflammatory action. Astley Cooper’s advice that “ purgatives should be as much as possible avoided, and a rigid abstinence enforced,” (p. 252,) cannot be too strongly insisted on. The object is to produce speedy union, which if the case do well, is eft’ected in two or three da}"S. But if the patient be constantly moving about, as happens when the bowels are acted on by purgatives, the joint is disturbed and suppurative inflammation will ensue.—J. F. S-] 560. Inflammation accompanying wounds of joints requires large re- peated bleedings, but especially local blood-letting with leeches; the most perfect quiet of the joint, and the continued use of cold applications, by which it is most probably to be prevented. But if the swelling be already