I [ 712 ] A.—OF SALIVARY FISTULA. (Fistula Salivalis, Lat.; Speicheljisteln, Germ.; Fistule Salivaire, Fr.) . , Din'HENi.'c, Morand, Louis, Observations sur les Fistules du Canal Salivaire de« Stenon; in Mdm. de I’Acad. de Chir., vol. iii. p. 431. Desault, (Luvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 216. ViBORG, Vorschlag zu einer verbesserten Behandlung der Speichelfistel; inSamm-i. i lung von Abhandlmigen fiir Thierarzte, Copenhagen, 1797, vol. ii. p. 33. JoBERT, Observations des Fistules Salivaires, suivies de quelques reflexions surces.» Maladies ; in Arch. Gdndr. de Mc'decine, 1838, Sept., p. 58. i 902. Salivary Fistula is characterized by an opening surrounded withb j callous edges most commonly very narrow, in the neighbourhood of Steno’s s ) duct, or of the salivary glands, out of which the spittle flows, espe-^ t daily during talking and chewing. The flow of spittle is often so great, , ji that loss of appetite, disturbed digestion, and wasting result from it. 903. Salivary fistula is produced either by accidental injury of the i- ♦ salivary glands, or their ducts, if the first union do not take place; or by» ( ulceration of this tissue, or by the salivary duct being stopped up by means s ) of stony concretions ; and in the latter case, a fluctuating swelling arises o' ^ in the course of the duct, which gradually enlarges, bursts, and discharges o { the spittle. 904. The treatment of salivary fistula varies according as it is situated i i on the duct itself, or on one of the small ducts from the gland. I 905. The salivary fistula, which can be distinguished, partly by its seat, . i and partly by a probe introduced from the mouth into Steno’s duct, is > j usually cured by continued pressure, which diminishes the secretive ac- - il tivity of the gland. A compress an inch and a half thick is to be put i i on it, and fastened with the halter bandage. At every renewal of the ! bandage, camphorated oil is to be rubbed upon the region of the gland, ,t j and the fistulous opening touched with lunar caustic. The mere repeated if \ application of caustic, especially of nitrate of silver, is commonly sufficient if i for the cure. ' 906. The treatment of fistula of the Stenonian duct, consists either in the J restoration of the natural passage for the spittle, or in the formation of an i i artificial passage by which the spittle may flow into the mouth. 907. The restoration of the natural salivary duct, is only possible when i! fj its division has not been of long standing, and the lower end is still per- • Ii vious, which may be ascertained, with a fine probe, from the mouth, or by ' I injection into the fistulous opening. The modes of treatment proposed for r 1 this purpose are,—1. The union of the edges of a recent division by the ,i twisted suture, in which one, two, or three stitches, according to the size P |j of the division, are put in. 2. The introduction of a silken thread, by ? | means of a delicate eyed probe, through the lower end of the duct into ■ ; the fistula, and its removal when the duct is thought to be sufficiently * | widened ; after which the fistula closes, either of itself, or by the applica- - f tion of caustic (a). 3. Compression of the duct from the fistula up to the f , gland, in consequence of which cedematous swelling of the gland and the ^j; neighbouring parts ensues, which soon destroys the use of tlie divided i parts (Ii). 4. The efficient touching of the fistulous opening with nitrate of silver, or the application of a paste of sublimate and bread crumbs < i (a) Louis and Morano, above cited. (ti) Masseneuve ; m Memoires do I’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 452. i