MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 66 eye-lid, presenting, at the first view, the aspect of incipient erysipelas ; speedy morti- fication of the reddened part, and its slow separation, the mortification including the subjacent textures, so that the cicatrix was fixed to the bone, and the lower lid partially drawn down; absence of constitutional disturbance. “ In the other instances,” he continues, “ both of which were persons employed in a horsehair manufactory, the skin had sloughed before they came to the hospital. The affected portions were circular, the size of a shilling in one, on the front of the chest; that of a sixpence in the other, on the fore arm. There were no other local symptoms, nor the slightest constitutional disturbance.” Tukchetti (a) has given, under the name of Anthrax, an account of some cases of malig- nant pustule, which occurred in 1841, after eating diseased flesh of cattle which had died of an epidemic anthrax of the tongue, and had been sold in the market of Fucec- chio. In some persons, small, and very painful tubercles, with a red areola, or small whitish pustules, encircled with purple or violet, appeared on the face, lips, neck, or arms, gradually increasing in size until in the space of from one to three days they presented the genuine characters of anthrax. In the greatest number of these cases the slough separated in the course of a week, leaving a more or less healthy ulcer, which cicatrized speedily. In the more severe cases the pustules ran together, the inflamma- tion spread like erysipelas, with extensive livid swelling and obstinate disorder of the alimentary canal. The sloughs did not separate for a fortnight, and left very foul ulcers, which healed with great difficulty. Two elderly persons died of this disease. A young man, eighteen years old, was attacked twenty-eight hours after taking this food with an anthrax on the left upper eyelid, whence followed mortification of the whole of that side of the face and neck, and part of the chest. At the end of a fortnight the slough cleared off, leaving an enormous ulcer, which suppurated freely and healed slowly. Dr. Wagner (b) relates several cases of malignant pustule produced in man and beasts, both by contact and by eating the flesh of diseased animals, which happened at the village of Striesa in Saxony. On the 13th of July, 1834, a herd of cattle having been brought from the pastures to the village, the bull fell to the ground, and was in- capable of getting up again. Supposing that it had met with some injury in the loins which would render it useless, it was destroyed by shooting through the head, as hap- pened to be most convenient, and then, having been dressed and cut up by two labourers, the meat was distributed among the villagers. A few days after, some more cattle on the same farm died, and were skinned by the same persons; but the meat was not used as food, as almost all the persons who had eaten of the first beast had felt more or less unwell, mostly, however, complaining only of weight at the pit of the stomach, and pain in the belly, without fever: but, several, especially the two persons who had both dressed the animal and also eaten its flesh, complained severely of soreness of the limbs, dizziness and debility. Between the 15th and 18th of the month several more beasts dropped and died without any previous illness. On examining their bodies the spleen was found completely gangrenous and in so broken up a state that when cut into it pre- sented a black paste-like mass, which readily flowed out: there were also other inflamma- tory marks in the belly, and hydatids here and there beneath the skin, especially about the neck. One of the flayers, notwithstanding his uucomfortable feelings, proceeded to a village three leagues off, which he accomplished; but, on attempting to return, was attacked with colic and vomiting, and some hours after was found on the ground suffer- ing severe pain, and passing black blood by stool; his limbs were cold, and soon became attacked with cramp ; the whole body like ice ; the eyes sunken; and he died vomiting, passing bloody stools, and under great anxiety. One widow woman, of thirty years, who had eaten the flesh, but otherwise not touched the animal, complained of oppression at the heart, and weight of the limbs, had a black pustule on the thigh, felt herself very ill in the evening, went to bed, and early in the morning was found dead. Other sons had pustules on different parts of the body. Two very remarkable cases occurred eight days after any beast had been affected with diseased spleen; both were women, one of twenty-six, and the other of fifty years, and in them the pustules were well marked, and the general symptoms similar to the other cases. The latter patient .said she had been bitten by a fly upon the back of the neck, at which part the carbuncle appeared; and the former, that she also had been bitten on the riglit upper arm, by a f Moo- (ff) Sopra alcuni casi dl Malattia Carbonchiosa nata per ingestione delle carni di bue perito di iflosso-anthrace ; in Omodex’s Annali Unlversali di Medicinal vol. cU p. 276. 1842. (6) UelMsrtra^ung dcs MiUbrandgiftes auf Moo* schen und Tliiere aowohl durch Beruhrur^* a durch Genuss dcs Fleischcs; in Hufflanp 8 Osann’s Journal dcr praclUchcn Heilkunde, ber, 1834, p. 1.