743 TREATMENT BY URETHROPLASTY. 961 According to Dieffenhacii, if tliere be a hole close behind the jrepnce tlie external layer of the prepuce should be transplanted back- ,vanls an entire ring, the outer layer of the prepuce being raised up jefore the fistula and cut through, so that the wound may occupy more •han two-tliirds of the circumference of the pe7iis. Behind the fistula a Corresponding incision is formed by the oblique division of a longitudinal ibid, so that flie two cuts join at their extremities, and thus an oval island s formed, having in tlie 'middle tlie fistula which has been prepared by some strokes of the knife laid flat. The edge of the wound in the prepuce is now raised with a pair of hook forceps, the cellular tissue connecting the outer and inner folds of the prepuce, divided with eye-scissors, the frcenuluni cut through, as well as the outer fold of the prepuce, where con- nected with the glans, and tlius an opening is formed of half an inch for I tlie introduction of a small bougie, for the escape of the secretion of the t wound and the prevention of urinary eflPusion. The hinder edge of the outer layer of the prepuce is to be drawn back and united to the cor- responding wounded edge of the skin of the penis by seven or eight stitches and the connexion supported by narrow strips of plaster crossing in the back of the penis. In very narrow prepuce both its layers must be divided to the corona. 962. In large openings immediately behind the glans, if the prepuce be deficient, Dieffenbach recommends the removal of the callous edges, so as to form a transverse cleft, and then by depressing the glans the edges of i|the wound are brought together and united by two interrupted stitches, the ^one end of which is to be cut off and the other carried by a blunt needle ijthrough the fistula to the mouth of the urethra. The neighbourhood of 4the fistula and the whole under surface of the glans is then to be set free, (jto the extent of a line with a pair of hook forceps and a small scalpel. The liextent of the cut must be bounded by penetrating perpendicular incisions, land the wound have the shape of a half oval, of which the rounded part (is to be directed towards the orifice of the urethra, its straight part back- ' wards and its two angles reaching up to the back of the penis. The skin ; is now raised in a longitudinal fold, at the hinder and under part of the penis, and cut through obliquely, so that the ends of the cut are directed upwards and forwards. This bridge of skin, so entirely separated that it remains connected only on the back of the penis, is drawn forwards over the surface of the wound and over the fistula, and connected with the edges of the wound of the glans by fine interrupted stitches. The hinder surface of the wound is covered with soft lint and sticking plaster, and beneath the hind edge of the ring of skin, a piece of bougie is introduced in order to carry off the urine somewhat escaping by the side of the catheter. Inflammation is to be prevented by cold applications and subsequently »lukewarm lead wash, and the threads projecting from the urethra, as well '■as the catheter, are to be drawn out when they have cut through the t edges. In one case Dieffenbach had a favourable result; in another the cure was frustrated by erection and discharge of the semen. Upon Urethroplasty compare— CooPKR, A., above cited. Delpecu, Chirurgie Clinique de Montpellier, vol. ii. p. 581. Beaxdin, Autoplastic, p. 180. Heilung widematurlichen Oefinungen in den oorderen neiie der miinnlichen Harnrohre; in Hamburger Zeitschrift, vol. ii. pt. i. Zeis, Handbuch der plastischen Chirurgie, p. 506.