90 TREATMENT 59. The so-called Cold Abscess (Lymph-Abscess) resulting from lin- gering inflammation, (par. 15,) in which the covering skin is but little or not at all changed, may sometimes be dispersed by resolving poultices, infric- tions, and plasters, by producing artificial wounds in the neighbourhood, by tlie application of the moxa, and so on, with simultaneous attention to the constitutional disorder. This, however, seldom happeas, and since, after they liave been opened in the way of ordinary abscesses, or have opened of themselves in consequence of the diminished vital activity of their walls, and tlie generally depressed state of the system, a very ill-conditioned and frequently fatal thin and copious suppuration sets in, special modes of proceeding in the treatment of these abscesses are therefore directed, in order partly to prevent the entrance of the air in opening them, partly to excite by the emptying of the swelling, such degree of inflammation as will produce their union, or the secretion of a good plastic pus, and then the cure is effected as in common abscess. 60. The modes of treatment to this end are, the emptying of the swelling with a lancet puncture or with a trochar, without admitting air, after which the opening is to be closed with sticking plaster, a mode- rately compressing bandage applied, and the opening frequently remade, till the union of the walls of the abscess has taken place (Abebnethy ;) opening with the lancet after the previous application of caustic (Beinl ;) the introduction of a seton or a bundle of silk threads, to be withdrawn on the third or fourth day, and the cure then perfected by compression (Walthek ;) tapping with the trochar and injection of red wine, solution of bichloride of mercury, or of nitrate of silver (Schaack ;) or of boiling hot water (Rust;) or a solution of fully neutralized nitrate of mercury (Nasse ;) the laying open of the swelling longitudinally throughout half its length, and filling it with charpie moistened with solutions of caustic (Zang ;) and the removal of the skin from the whole extent of the swelling (Callisen.) 61. The variety of these modes of treatment proves, that neither of them separately taken is sufficient to meet our wishes. The choice of them must therefore be guided by the difterence of constitution, by the more or less weak state of the cellular walls and by the size of the swelling. If the tumour be not be very large and the constitution of the patient still tolerably good, perfect closing of the cavity of the abscess may usually be produced by repeated puncture Avith the lancet or trochar, or at least it may be so much diminished that we may be able to effect a cure by laying it open with a bistoury, and filling it with charpie, moistened with irritating remedies, especially solution of nitrate of mercury. In swellings of larger size it is far preferable to make the opening with caustic, or by the introduction of a seton. If the cure be not in this way effected, and, if suppuration threatening exhaustion occur after artificial or spontaneous opening, it is proper to remove from the front wall of the swelling as much as may be allowable, or to fill tlie whole cavity Avith charpie, Avhich, according to the various degrees of irritating, is to be moistened Avith a stronger or Aveaker solution of nitrate of silver, or nitrate of mercury, to bring about a good suppuration. I am, hoAV- ever, convinced, that by the employment of these violent modes of treat- ment, the very Avorst symptoms are often produced Avhicli are dreaded in the common mode of treating absce.sses. At least, I have in verj' many cases of cold abscess made the ojiening at tlie proper spot in the usual