249 HYSTERICAL AFFECTION OF JOINTS. Louatueu tlihiks it necessary to make upon the thigh, at the knee,^ direct pressure from before backwards, and to push it in that direction, whilst the leg is extended. This is etfected by means of two uprights fixed on each side of the knee, by their lower ends upon the splints, the four upper ends of which are connected by a rectangular parallelo- gram, in which they are enclosed and retained by copper nuts. A thick pad is placed on the knee, and, between the metallic rectangle and this compress, a cushion formed of a plate of metal, and padded towards the ttiigh. The limb thus fixed is placed in a rectangular wooden gutter, at the end of which is a winch; within these planes is a chase, on which the foot, supported laterally by the bar attached to the sole, travels. A set of cords attached to these parts connects them with the winch, and with a few turns of its handle, tlie leg is straightened always iu less than a minute, and most commonly, when the anchylosis is angular, with one or two distinct and successive cracks.” (p. 396.) Velpeau evidently is no favourer of this apparatus; and he enumerates among the objections to its employment, tlie severe pain, but as this is very short it may be borne with; and the violent purnlent inflammation of the joint which may ensue, the danger of this, however, is exaggerated. But the more serious accidents are laceration of the in- teguments of the great arterial or venous trunks; of the nerves and ligaments; and the more or less severe bruising of the soft parts, in consequence of which sloughing occurs. “ If, however,” says he, “ we observe the cases (about twenty) on which Louvmer has operated, there are but few in which symptoms, more or less serious, occur immediately. I know, however, that these facts are still too few ; at present we may presume that this plan of treatment is not so dangerous as one might be led to suppose.” (p. 208-15.) To the question “ What benefit is the patient to derive from this treatment?” Velpeau replies, as regards the re-establishment of the motions of the joint, that neither theory nor Louvbier’s facts are favourable. To prevent the reunion of the bone frequent mo- tion must be resorted to, which is dangerous ; but if not employed the bones become resoldered, and the leg either becomes straight, with the sole of the foot flat on the ground, (which is the most favourable result,) or the limb continues more or less bent, and the foot cannot be put flat, so that the patient needs crutches. Another result is, that the head of the shin-bone is thrown behind the condyles, and dislocation is produced, as, if the knee-cap be soldered to the fore and lower part of the condyles, which is often the case, it prevents the head of the shin-bone resuming its natural place, and, serving as a wedge, pitches the latter into the ham, so that a dislocation being produced the patient is not benefited by the operation, (p. 215-17.) HYSTERICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE JOINTS. Hysterical females are often subject to afiections of the joints, especially of the hip and knee, which, without any actual disease in the part, produce excessive suffering, and are liable to be mistaken for dangerous ailments. Brodie, in reference to this point, says;—“ At first there is a pain referred to the hip, knee, or some other joint, without any evident tumefaction; the pain soon becomes very severe, and by degrees a puffy swelling takes place, in consequence of some degree of serous effusion into the cells of the cellular texture. The swelling is diffused, and in most instances trifling; but it varies in degree ; and I have known, where the pain has been referred to the hip, the whole of the limb to be visibly enlarged from the erista of the ilium to the knee. There is always exceeding tenderness, connected with which, however, we may observe this remarkable circumstance, that gently touching the integuments in such a way as that the pressure cannot affect the deep-seated parts, will often be productive of much more pain than the handling of the limb in a more rude and careless manner. In one instance where there was this nervous affection of the knee, immediately below the joint there was an actual loss of the natural sensibility; the numbness occupying the space of two or three inches in the middle of the leg. Persons who labour under this disease are generally liable to other complaints, and in all cases the symptoms appear to be aggravated, and kept up by being made the subject of constant anxiety and attention ” (pp. 339,40.) In an affection of this kind in the knee, Tyrrell (a) observes “ The point which convinced me that the affection was not one of actual inflammation of the ligaments of the knee, but a sympathetic disease depending on the peculiar condition of the constitution, is this, that if she had inflammation merely of the internal lateral ligament and the posterior ligament, the pain would be confined to those parts, particu- larly when the limb was at rest, and she would complain of pain particularly on pres- sure on those parte; but when you examined the surface of the joint, it mattered little where you pressed, it was all the same, she complained of pain.” (p. 316.) Bell (/') («) St. Tl.oma«« Hospital Ueporte. Medical Gazette, vol. xiv. 1833,34