MORTIFICATION. 55 . cuticle does not separate, the fetid exlialation is less, the pain is some- rtimes very severe {Dry Gangrene; Trockner Brand, Germ.; Gangrene ^s'eche, Fr.;) 2nd, the mortified part increases in bulk, the cuticle rises in blisters, which burst and discharge a quantity of stinking ichorous fluid \{Moist Gangrene; Feucliter Brand, Germ.; Gangrene humide, Fr. ;) 3nl, all the organic structures witliout distinction are changed into a "lutinous grayish white or ulcerous mass {Hospital Gangrene; Hospital- Hrand, Germ.; Pourriture d’hdpital, Fr.) i [In severe braises, and occasionally when, after the swelling of a limb consequent on ;a fracture, the bandages confining splints have become tight and caused much pressure, (vesications filled with bluish or bluish-black fluid occur. This often excites alarm, and 5-is mistaken for mortification; but it is of little consequence. It is only requisite to •puncture the blisters with a needle, evacuate the fluid, and apply lead wash for a few [days, when all soon becomes sound. If the vesications are left unemptied, they often I produce inconvenient superficial sores, which heal with the use of zinc ointment.— J. F. S.] 25. Mortification may be produced by all hurts which cause a too high |.legree of inflammation, obstruction of the circulation, weakness, oppression bf the nervous activity, and thereby loss of life of a part; for instance, koo irritating treatment of inflammation, checking of the circulation by itigature, too tight bandaging, pressure kept up by unyielding aponeuroses ; violent operation of heat and cold, malignant character of the inflamma- tion where in seeming mildness of the symptoms mortification often occurs, )f which the cause is generally unknown, but sometimes depends on lurtful matter in the bowels; further, from a great degree of weakness, ilegeneration of the juices, scurvy, and so on, malignant, putrid fevers, jreat age, severe bruises and concussions, by which the part is filled with stagnant juices; ligature and ossification of the vessels, (which may with- out inflammation give rise to mortification,) certain fluids extravasated from their cavities, as urine, bile, feculent matter; bad foul air and con- jagious influences. [Brodie (a) enumerates sudden loss of blood as sometimes causing mortification, and 1 proof mentions the case of a man who, whilst very tipsy, one evening, was bled to ihe extent of three pints, when he became very ill, and the next morning his toes and !eet up to the insteps were mortified. They sloughed ofip, however, and he did well, ip. 635.) \ Travers mentions among the causes of mortification “ such deep and extensive ?Rusions as compress and annihilate the internal circulation of the part. Thus, I have een,” says he, “ a subfascial efFusion, following a severe strain of the fore arm, pro- ducing a spreading gangrenous inflammation of the extremity to within a hand’s rreadth of the axilla; and similar cases, of suppuration, between the deep-seated iiuscles of the thigh, I have known terminate suddenly in gangrenous inflammation of •le entire limb to the groin. Injuries of nerves, particularly, are liable to be followed y gangrenous inflammation : of this I have also seen some marked examples. Baron ■lARREY found reason to attribute the gangrene of the foot following the operation for opliteal aneurism to the nerve having been injured or included in the ligature.” jj. 214.) I recollect many years ago seeing a case of mortification of the whole lower ctremity, consequent on a bayonet wound of the femoral artery, in which the death of ! -le limb seemed to result from the slow effusion of blood and gradual distension first of <ie fascia;, and subsequently of the skin, which occupied many months. The man was •sailor, and during a homeward voyage from the East Indies dropped a bayonet point ;to his thigh. The ship being without any surgeon, the captain bandaged the thigh fghtly up, and effectually prevented external ha:morrhage for five or six weeks. When I; reached home, he was brought to St. Thomas’s Hospital, and, on removing the i undage, the wound was found united. The limb was much swollen up to the pelvis; (n) t.ecturcs on Mortification; in London Medical Gazette. 1H40-11, vol. i.