TREATMENT. 619 t If the ulcer be torpid and foul, the limb must be kept in the horizontal < position, warm fomentations of decoction of chamomile flowers, or solution of chloride of lime must be used; and when the ulcer has been thereby a sufficiently cleansed, sticking plaster must be applied, according to > Batnton’s plan. The sticking plaster, cut in strips of sufficient length, A: and according to the thread, is to be applied, beginning an inch below 9 the ulcer, in ascending spiral turns, around the ailing part, till the ulcer I is completely covered. Over this sticking plaster, should the leg be swathed to the knee with a linen bandage, in order to give rnoderate 7 pressure to the whole part, which is especially necessary in varicose or ■I (Edematous state of the leg. According to the quantity of the pus 0 secreted by the ulcer, is the plaster to be renewed daily, or after several days, by which the ulcer is properly cleansed ; and when scarring corn- 's mences it is to be touched with a weak solution of sublimate. If the 0 ulcers be accompanied with inflammation, erythism, or with any other com- )i plication, they must always be first brought back to their simple condition •\ by preliminary treatment, before proceeding to swathe them in sticking, 8 plaster. If these be attended to, and the sticking plaster be applied li with carefulness, no bad symptoms, no pain, no increased development of a! heat, (under which circumstance the part should be moistened with cold Tt water as often as the increased heat seems to require it,) no excoriation, « nor fresh ulceration, and the like, will be observed. If the ulcer, under D this treatment, be reduced to a certain point, without seeming inclined to X become further healed, or if it again become worse, the cause depends li either on the insufficient support of the patient, specially in his too early O' moving about, or there is a general ailment in causal relation with the a ulcer, or the ulcer has become habitual to the patient; and, according to these circumstances, the treatment must be directed. I have never ob- ’I- served with this treatment even in ulcers of fifteen or twenty years’ standing {r any symptoms arising from suppression of the usual secretions. J at I I 4 TE » 7i of br f I > Ji b( I 'u III q. Underwood and Boyer (a) allow the patient to walk during the use of Baynton’s Eirathing with sticking plaster, and maintain that thereby a more firm and regular scar is produced; as, on the contrary, the scar which is produced whilst the patient is kept quiet, easily breaks out again in standing and walking, on account of the stretching which it sufiers in walking. In these ulcers all the aromatic and astringent remedies have been recommended for local use; bathing the ulcer and its neighbourhood with decoction of oak bark, of willow, of the leaves or shells of walnuts, of the leaves of plantain, of the herbs water- ^rmander, or rue, either alone, or with tincture of myrrh and the like. When the secre- tion from the ulcer is considerable, it is best to apply the remedies in form of powder, thus, strewing with bark, oak bark, chamomile flowers with camphor, myrrh and the like; or stimulating salves and plasters, digestive ointment with camphor, red precipitate ointment and the like. When, on account of the peculiar state of the patient, neither rest nor swathing can be made use o^ 1 employ, according to the degree of foulness of the ulcer, daily, a foot- bath of chamomile flowers or potash, and bind up the sore with a salve of ung. nutrit., and red precipitate ointment. Rdst (6), in chronic ulcers of the foot, employs the hunger-cure, (quarter portion daily,) and twice a-week a purge; on the following day a lukewarm bath, and cold fomentations of soft water to the ulcer. [In the application of sticking plaster to ulcers, or indeed when the limb requires support alone, it is much better to put it on in single straps like a Scdi.tetus’s bandage, than in the spiral way here recommended. The advantage gained is its more close and regular application. As to the frequency of the dressing, I prefer its renewal every (a) Rapport enconseildeshCpitaux. Paris,1831. (6) Magaxm fTir die gesammte Heilkunde, vol. ix. p. 517.