74 INFLAMMATION OF FIBROUS TISSUES, ARTERIES. be at once blocked up and the most dangerous consequences ensue, as occasionally observed in croup, and so on; but they prefer suppurative inflammation, and no such danger accrues.—J. F. S. Tile inflammation of serous membranes sometimes runs on to suppuration. This was noticed by Hunter, who observes :—“ In spontaneous suppurations, one, two, three, or more parts of the inflammation lose the power of resolution, and assume exactly the same disposition with those of an exposed surface, or a surface in contact with an extraneous body. If it is in the cellular membrane that this disposition takes place, or in the investing membranes of circumscribed cavities, their vessels now begin to alter their disposition and mode of action, and continue changing till they gradually form themselves to that state which fits them to form pus. * * * From hence it must appear that suppuration takes place upon those surfaces without a breach of solids or dissolu- tion of parts, a circumstance not commonly allowed ; and, when got beyond the adhesive state, they become similar in their suppuration to the inner surfaces of internal canals ” (p. 378.)] In inflammation of the Fibrous Tissues the pain is sometimes very severe, sometimes changeable, deep-seated, increased less by pressure than by the motions of the part, the warmth is much increased, the swelling, according to the difference in structure of the neighbouring parts, some- times hard, sometimes soft, the redness slight, often scarcely discernible, but often far outspread. Its terminations are resolution, metathesis, gouty concretions, gangrene, and suppuration, which is confined to the cellular tissue connecting the fibres together, whereby a laminated arrangement is produced. Inflammation of the coats of Arteries (1) is either generally diffused, with violent pulsation of the heart and arteries and high fever ; or it is confined to one spot, when the symptoms are commonly obscure. The acute partial inflammation of arteries commonly runs into adhesion ; the chronic, which mostly depends on diseases with little power, into thickening, loosening, ulceration, deposition of calcareous masses, whence (2) commonly results the origin of aneurisms. [(1) Arteritis, as it is now generally called, is, probably, if idiopathic, an inflammation of the internal only, and not of all the coats of an artery, but, if traumati^ arising either from wound, from ligature, or more extensive pressure and the like, or if the inflammation have been communicated to the artery from neighbouring diseased parts then all the coats of the vessel become affected, and may pass through the various forms of inflammation. “ The active and violent pulsations,” says Bouillaud (a), which the arteries in the neighbourhood of a veiy acute whitlow perform are the type of those which characterize general arterial irritation. And he also observes, that there is besides the increased force of the arterial pulsations, a sensation of heat and uneasiness in the region which the inflamed artery occupies.” (p. 411.) Redness, thickening and friability are the appearances described as pr^entc^ by the internal coat of an artery under acute inflammation ; the redness and thickening from swelling of the membrane occurring simultaneously. Hodgson (6) describes four cases, in the first of which the internal coat of the aorta was of deep red colour; a great effusion of lymph had taken place into its cavity, and becoms very intimately connected with the internal coat, and a plug of the lymph extending into the left sub-clavian artery nearly obliterated its cavity : these appearances accompanied s violent pneumonia. In three cases, viz. of carditis, pneumonia and bronchitis, he also saw it, but the effusion of lymph was less ; in one case the aorta was throughout of a de^ scarlet colour, and a little above the semi-lunar valves tlie coats of the aorta were dis- tended with lymph, (p. 5.) He also quotes from Portal (c) a case of sudden subsidenM of measles, in which “ the aorta was throughout nearly its whole extent very red, and its walls swollen and soft, especially in tlie thoracic region, near the diaphragm, it was covered with varicose vessels; the internal coat was swollen and softened, (p 127.) (a) Dictionnairc do Mcdecinc ot do Chiruryie (6) On the Diseases of Arteries and \eins, A*.. Pratiques, vol. hi. Article ArU’rite. London, 1S15, 8vo. (c) Anatomic Medicate, vol. iii. Paris, 1803. 8vo.