513 COMPOUND FKACTURES. as to bring the frachired ends of the bone into proper place, the splints attached th? apparatus are adjusted to the limb, and having been properly fastened, there is httle possibility of displacement from ■whatever posture may be chosen to put the h^b in. n the apparatus for the upper limb, the weight of the arm principally keeps up the ex- tension ; but the steadiness of the fracture is especially provided for by an angular splint applied in front of both upper and fore-arm. These contrivances are very effective in the treatment of fractures, and will occasionally be advantageous when most ofber attempts fail; but I think they are objectionable on account of their complicity, which requires especial instruction to understand, so as to apply them properly; for otherwise they are not merely useless, but injurious, by the unequal and misplaced pressure they produce, the result of which very commonly is, tiresome sores; and for their cure^ it is often necessary to free the limb entirely from any apparatus. They have also the in- convenience, especially those for the lower limbs, of rarely being capable of proper ad- justment, on acount of the variety of people’s size, to more than two or three persons; ind hence at least half-a-dozen sets of various length should be always at hand, which in country practice cannot be expected, where also there is little probability of pro- perly repairing the apparatus, in case of breaking or disarrangement. I must confess that I consider the more simple are the means employed for treating either simple or compound fracture the better. The starched and gummed bandages nave rendered this part of surgical practice as simple as it is efficient; but if the Sur- ^n prefer wooden splints, he can always readily furnish himself, with or without ;he aid of a carpenter, with pieces of deal about three inches wide and the sixth of an nch thick, which he can cut to the requisite length for the limb on which the splints are o be applied. These together with pads and bandages are sufficient for the treatment )f almost every fracture, either simple or compound; for the Surgeon will do well to •emember that the well-doing of the case depends rather on the way in which he ad- usts the apparatus, of whatever kind it may be, than on the gimcrackery with which ome mechanical Surgeons are fond of furnishing it.—J. F. S.] [589.* After the protruding ends of the fractured bone have been drawn ack, so far as possible, into their natural place, the choice of position in hich the limb should be put, is the next point for determination. To lis the Surgeon is directed by the situation of the wound, it being neces- ry that the limb should be placed, if possible, so that the daily or more equent dressings may be effected without its being disturbed ; but if, as >metimes happens, this cannot be avoided, that the position should be ich as should pennit dressing with least movement. Practical experience in alone specially guide the Surgeon as to the best mode of effecting this bject; but the general rule is, so to place the limb that if suppuration be cpected, the pus may have the opportunity of escaping as it is secreted om the wound, and not the probability of burrowing, which materially iterferes with the cure, and wastes the constitutional powers, by the irri- ition it keeps up. The choice of the apparatus to be employed in the peatment of the case must also, in many instances, materially depend upon ne seat and extent of the wound ; for though the practitioner may have preference for one kind over another, he will be much disappointed ' he expect that one apparatus and one position is suitable on all occa- ons. Having determined the position, and prepared the apparatus which he |is selected, the fracture is immediately to be put up ; and this, it will be oserved, is a very remarkable difference from the treatment recommended simple fracture. But in compound fracture, the swelling, if it at all ^cur, IS but slight, as the serous part of the blood readily escapes by the and more readily if the wound be large, so that there is little P tear of mischief from the increase of the swelling tightening the bandaj Jif causing the inconvenient squeezing of the limb, which happens in simple swelling tightening the bandages ' , * o- -limb, which happens in simple Itairmn^n, apparatus be immediately put on. The great object in '. vL fracture is to render it, as soon as possible, simple, by healino- 2 L ° a ,1 VOL, I. ■ I