425 FUNGOUS GROWTH OF BRAIN. Vrolick, G., Boraerkungen iiber die Weise, wie die Oeifnung in dem Schiidel nach ^ der Trepanation oder anderem Kuocken verlust ausgefiilltwerd. Amsterdam, 1837. I Dubueil, Ueber Regenerations th'atigkeit der Kopfknochen|; in Presse Medicale. 1837. V No. 57. 450. If the pus be tliiii and bad, strengtliening internal medicines must K be given, and applications of the same kind put on the dressings. If any j irritation keep up the suppuration, it must be removed ; if any pieces of ii bone be loose they must be withdrawn. If the dura mater be tense and H dirty; if a fungous growth rise from its upper surface, and prevent the I escape of the discharge, it must be bound up with drying remedies, pressure j applied, and careful touching with lunar caustic employed; and, if the fungus ) do not subside therewith, it must be taken away with the handle of a scalpel, ^ or cut off with a knife. The brain may also grow up luxuriantly through ^ the opening of the trepan, partly as consequent on expansion of the brain { after the removal of the pressure, partly when, as consequence of external I violence or of inflammatory congestion, the delicate vessels of the brain I pour out blood into its substance, in consequence of which the brain stretches towards the aperture in the bone, and ulcerates the dura mater. The brain thrusts through the opening and grows in bulk as the effusion of blood adds to it; at last it tears tlirough the pia mater, and the layer of brain surrounding the blood, which then pours out, coagulates and collects as the bleeding recurs. The treatment consists in blood-letting, pur^ng, and the application of moderated pressure; if the swelling continue increasing it must be emptied by introducing a lancet, or removed with a knife. If, with an 1 increasing swelling, the aperture in the skull be too small for the escape of the blood, it must be enlarged with the trepan. Flohbens, Memoire sur les Exuberances du Cerveau par I’Ouverture du Trepan. ‘ Paris, 1830. 451. As the scar of the trepan opening, in young subjects only gradually, I in adults rarely, and in old persons never acquires the solidity of the other ■ parts of the skull, it must, to maturity, or, in adults throughout the rest ' of their life, be covered with a plate of dressed leather (a less bulky one ■ is made of metal lined with wool) to protect the brain from pressure and 1 from external violence. Larrey (a) has observed that after closure of the hole, the shape of the skull is changed, being flattened on the side of the injury; the mental activity is simultaneously diminished. 452. The various bandages recommended for injuries of the head may be ranged in three classes. I. Many-tailed bandages—1, the six-tailed ; 2, the eight-tailed; 3, the four-tailed or Galen’s sling: II. Head- cloths and caps—1, the four-cornered or great head-cloth; 2, the three- cornered, or little head-cloth; 3, Schreger’s three-cornered head-bandao-e ; 4, the night-cap; 5, Stark’s net: III. Rollers— 1, the single roller2, the scaphoid bandage; 3, the T-bandage, especially Schreger’s movable one; 4, Dionis’s frontal bandage; 5, Hippocrates’s cap ; 6, the knot bandage for compressing the temporal artery. Of all these bandages I employ Schreger’s movable "J-bandage, for all wounds, with flaps) and for fastening separate bandages, the three-cornered head-cloth as a general covering bandage, and Hippocrates’s cap as the general compressing bandage; all the rest are superfluous. ° (a) VzLPEAU, above cited, p. 265.