TREATMENT BY TRANSPLANTING. 757 ristic diet, injections of cold water every half-lionr, witli a large syringe, dirono-h the catheter lying in the bladder slionld be made, and by an ■xsophcKjas tube into the vagina; cold applications on the region of the oitbes, and according to the state of the constitution, blood-letting ; if pain eoine on, leeches to the region of the bladder, and even in the vagina; 3inulsions with aqua lauro-cemsi and castor oil, with mucilaginous drinks. About the sixth day the ligatures are to be carefully removed with forceps ind long scissors, and injections made with lukewarm chamomile tea. If tlie union succeed and there remain only a little opening in jolace of the early cleft, or one of the needle-holes, we must endeavour to close it, ay touching with tincture of cantharides, and the like, or by the loop juture. According to Wutzer, the symptoms of inflammation coming on moderately, may be opposed by frequently drinking cold water, and careful injections. In more careful examination of the patient, together with the application of leeches, some doses of calomel, rubbing in gray mercurial aintment on the insides of the thighs, and the frequent introduction of miall pieces of ice into the vagina may be sufficient against severe inflam- matory symptoms. The latter remedy employed with a cautious hand, tvill be especially advantageous and diminish the still burning pain. In increased inflammatory symptoms, blood-letting, calomel followed with infusion of senna, and injections of luke-warm oil into the rectum are to ae employed. When, however, there is no danger of threatening symp- toms, constipation for four or five days is rather desirable, and if there be lisposition to diarrhoea, it must be checked with opium. If the puncture )f the bladder have not been made, or if the tube have again slipped from ;he bladder, a thin elastic catheter must be introduced tlirough the urethra ivery hour or two, or even oftener, with frequent pre^ure to discharge [he urine; Wutzer considers it most advantageous when the patient her- telf can do this; but if not, the introduction of the catheter must be care- ully performed by an assistant; and only when neither is possible, should ;he catheter be allowed to remain permanently. When, however, not nerely the disposition to inflammation of the bladder is much increased, )ut also, by the continued irritation, the mucous secretion in the bladder s so great, that particularly after the third day, the catheter is frequently itopped, against which injections are not sufficient, this instrument must )ften be changed. The sutures should be first examined three days after •he operation; if about this time a needle or a thread be near cutting hrough it, must be removed. After the third day, the examination must aemade daily, that according as suppuration comes on, the several threads >r needles may be removed. In successful cases the scar acquires the lesired strength in four days. After the removal of the threads or needls njections only of lukewarm water or of weak lead wash should be used. 980. Ihe cure of vesico-vaginal fistula by transplantation, was first ittempted by Jobert, in a case where previously two attempts with suture ^lad failed. By means of Museux’s forceps or a hook, he drew down the under edge of the transverse fistulous opening, pared it, and then did the fame with the front edge. He next separated an oval piece of skin from the fcnucous membrane of tlie right labium, so that the flap at the edge of the paginal aperture formed, by closing the cut, a neck of four lines broad, rt ith a feniale catheter, he introduced a loop of thread through the urethra, up to tlie fistulous orifice in tlie vagina, and drew tlie one end of the loop )'ut ot the vagina, and the other by the catheter, out of the urethra. The