394 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL I If, liowever, with simple depressed fracture, there be decided symptoms of pressure upon the brain, and so marked as to be incapable of confusing with couciissiun, then an operation for their relief should not be delayed. ’ When, on the other hand, the fracture is compound, whether symptoms of pressure be not or be present, the depressed bone must be at once raised or removed, according to circumstances ; because,” says Asti.ey Coopeu, “ a compound fracture is followed very generally by inflammation of the brain ; and it will be of little use to trephine, when inflammation is once produced. It might be thought it would be time enough to perform this operation when inflammation had appeared; but this is not the case • for if the inflammation comes on, the patient will generally die, whether you trephine or not, and you will not arrest its fatal progress by trephining, but the operation will add to the danger of increasing the inflammation.” (p. 305.) Hennen, however, does not entirely agree with the necessity for trephining, even i when there is depression with wound, and in those more severe cases where the injury has been consequent on gun-shot; and he mentions two very remarkable instances, in i which neither was any operation for the removal of the depressed bone performed, nor • did any symptoms of compression ensue. A soldier received a musket-ball on the 18th ; of June, on the right parietal bone close to the junction of the sagittal and lambdoidal ; sutures, which “ fractured the bone to an extent corresponding with its own size. The t ball was split into two portions, forming nearly right angles. It was easily removed, ,j but from the narrowness of the passage, and from the depth to which the fracturedji portion of bone had been driven into the brain (being exactly an inch and one-fourth from the surface of the scalp) no operation was performed on the field; and as no one « bad symptom occurred in the hospital, I did not allow the wound to be meddled with h there. I trusted to venesection, a most rigid abstinence, open bowels, and mild easy y dressings. On the 14th of July or 26th day, the wound was nearly closed without any y one untoward symptom, and the functions were in every respect natural. In a few ■ weeks after the man was discharged cured. In a similar case, where the man survived v thirteen years, with no other inconvenience than occasional determination to the head 4 on hard drinking, a funnel-like depression to the depth of an inch-and-a-half was formed \ in the vertex. I am in possession of several other instances of a similar kind. We 'i have here sufficient proof that there is no absolute necessity for trepanning merely for x depressed bones from gun-shot, although few would be so hardy as not to remove all * fragments that came easily and readily away.” (pp. 287, 288.)] 396. The sutures of the skull may by great violence be separated froma each other. When this has been discovered by enlarging the wound or by proper incisions, and the separation of the sutures is not so great as ton permit the ready escape of fluid from both sides, trepanning is indicated. . 397. The severity of the violence which produces injury of the skulL^ is an important point in determining on its danger, as in injuries caused<< by very great violence nearly always splintering of the bone, separation and injury of the dura mater^ and so on, occur, which earlier or lateiu produce dangerous symptoms ; this is specially the case in gun-shot wounds.:^ If in these wounds there be merely injury of the soft parts, laying bare- the bone, or superficial injury without splintering, a simple but strict anti-- phlogistic treatment must be employed. But if they be connected witi splitting of the bone, if they penetrate into the diploe, if the external tabh be torn off and the internal splintered, or if a piece of bone be impressed^ then immediate trepanning is required. [“ Fractures from gun-shot are almost universally of the compound kind,” says Heske> ■ “ and are rarely unaccompanied with great depression of the skull. The difficuloes c- elevating or extracting the depressed portions of bone beat in upon the brain by gar shot, or the extraneous matter carried into its substance, are often very embarassing; m ball, from the projectile force communicated to it. not only fracturing the bone, oi hurrying in with it the detached piece or pieces and jamming them under or amon sound parts; frequently also it lodges among the fractured portions; frequently it in beds itself between the more solid osseous plates, and forms a kind of nidus in the dtplot and sometimes it drives forward into the brain itself, eluding the search of the and subverting the theories of the physiologist In the majority of ca^ a leaden ta either flattened against the bone, or, if it has struck obliquely, it is cut against