280 SPINE-DISEASE-PATIIOLOGY, [The pathological history of caries of the spine is thus briefly recapitulated by Brodiu (a) :—“ In some instances it has its origin in that peculiar softened, and other wise altered condition of the Iwdies of the vertebra:, the appearance of which, in the Imiies belonging to other joints, and which seems to be connected with what is called a scro- fulous state of constitution. In these cases ulceration may begin on any part of the surface, or even in the centre of the bone ; but, in general, the first effects of it are jjer- ceptible when the intervertebral cartilage is connected with it, and in the intervertebral cartilage itself. In other cases, the vertebra: retain their natural texture and hardness, and the first indication of the disease is ulceration of one or more of the intervertebral cartilages, and of the surfaces of bone with which they are connected.” (p. 24.3.) In reference to this point Key (b) observes :—“ In scrofulous ulceration, the intervertebral substance is not unfrequently the part in which the degeneration begins; large masses of the fibro-cartilaginous structure degenerate and disappear, cavities containing pus are found in its substance, and the broken down fibres surrounding the walls of the al)sce8s sufficiently attest the nature and progress of the action.” (p. 140.) On the other hand, according to Lawrence, “ this disease attacks only the bodies of the vertebra, that is, it attacks that part of the bony structure of the spinal column, which is its most frequent seat in other parts of the skeleton, the cancellous or spongy part. The processes of the vertebra, which are composed of firm or compact bony tissue, it does not attack.” (p. 5G1.) “ There is still another order of cases,” says Brodie ; “ but these are of more rare occurrence, in which the bodies of the vertebraj are affected with chronic inflammation, of which ulceration of the intervertebral cartilages is the consequence. In whichever of these ways the disease begins, if not checked in its progress, it proceeds to the destruc- tion of the bodies of the vertebra and intervertebral cartilages, leaving the posterior parts of the vertebra unaffected by it; the necessary consequence of which is an incur- vation of the spine forwards, and a projection of the spinous processes posteriorly At this period of the disease, the membranes of the spinal cord sometimes become affected | with a chronic inflammation, which may extend even to the spinal cord itself; and when j there is much incurvation, the latter not only becomes incurvated witli it, but actually i compressed in such a manner as cannot fail to interfere with the due performance of its 1 functions. “ Suppuration sometimes takes place at a very early period; at other times, not until |i the disease has made considerable progress. The soft parts in the neighbourhood of the abscess become thickened and consolidated, forming a thick capsule, in which the abscess i is sometimes retained for several successive years, but from which it ultimately makes 1 its way to the surface, presenting itself in one or another situation, according to circum- i stances. “ In the advanced stage of the disease, new bone is often deposited in irregular masses on the surface of the bodies of the neighbouring vertebra; and when recovery takes plaee, the carious surface of the vertebra above coming in contact with that of the ver- tebra below, they become united with each other, at first by soft substance, afterwards by bony anchylosis. The disposition to anchylosis is not the same under all circum- stances ; it is much less where the bones are affected by scrofula, tlian where they retain their natural texture and hardness ; and this explains wherefore, in the former class of cases, a cure is effected with more difficulty than in the latter. “ Occasionally portions of the ulcerated or carious bone lose their vitality, and, having become detached, are found lying loose in the eavity of the abscess. It is scarcely necessary to add, that the existence of such exfoliations is, of itself, almost sufficient to preclude all chance of the patient’s recovery.” (p. 243-45.)] 259. The causes of this disease are scrofula, masturbation, rheumatism, gout, external violence. Where tlie complaint arises more from scrofula, it seems to originate as a primary disease of the bone ; if, on the contrary, from gout, external injury, and so on, the cartilages and ligaments rather are attacked. 260. The stealthy progress of the disease must render the medical attend- ant very cautious in his diagnosis. Every tiling depends upon attacking the disease at the onset. If once displacement have happeneti, tlie most fortunate result is that the swelling of the parts should diminish, and the pressure on the nerves springing from the spinal marrow be removed. If (a) Third edition. (6) Med.-Clur. Trans., vol. xU.