63 MALIGNANT PUSTULE. August 1, 1844. Having two superficial sores on the glans penis and a superficial sore on die back of the pharynx, sloughy and painful, so much so as to prevent him i sleeping at nio-ht. He is much out of health ; quick, irritable pulse ; hot, dry skin and foul tongue. °He has also a very small sore, scarcely perceptible, and covered with a dry scab, on the face near the nostril. He was not seen till August 2. Probably from not having come in, and then ordered pu/u. rhei c. hydr. 9j. : stat; sod. carb. gr. xv. acid. citr. yr. x. tinct. hyoscyam. 3ss. aq. distill. 5jss. 6tis : horis; garg. acid. nitr. August 6. The mixture omitted, and in its stead ordered acid. nitr. ir[ iij. inf. rosar. 1 ^ss. ter die. pulv. ipec. c. gr. x. On : Augusts. Very resdess, scarcely sleeps at all; and is so feeble that he can hardly ij answer the questions put to him. Ordered a glass of wine and a pint of porter daily, |j and morph, mur. gr. J. On i: August 15. Has slept better since taking the morphia. The crust under the right j nostril has increased in size and is accompanied with swelling of the surrounding parts, which are of a purplish colour. August 17. Is much worse ; the lip immensely swollen and livid, but not giving any discharge; face so much disfigured that he can scarcely be recognised. The sore in the throat much worse; bowels confined. R pulv. rhei. c. hydr. gr. xv. stat; vin. rubr. 5vj. quotid. August 20. Is very feeble and unable to speak. The slough has now extended around the mouth from the nose to the chin, including the lips and part of both cheeks. The sore in the throat has become very sloughy. Four ounees of brandy, three eggs and some arrow-root were ordered; biit he was not able to take much, and gradually sunk till W.p.m. When he died. No discharge at all had occurred from the lip. No examina- tion of the body was made.—J. F. S.] 33. Mortification occurs as a consequence of contagious influence, either by the contagious matter producing at first an inflammation which termi- i nates in mortification, {malignant pustule,') or by coming in contact with ji the surface of a wound or sore, whereby the destruction of it is brought about {hospital gangrene.) 34. The Malignant Pustule {Pustula maligna, Lat.; bosartige Pustel, 'Germ.; Pustule maligne, Fr.) is always consequent on local contagion. i'On the place which the contagious matter has touched, there appears in ji a short time prickling and a red point, which is scarcely raised above the •skin. The cuticle rises in a blackish vesicle, which is soon converted into [a slough surrounded by a whitish or violet edge and cedematous swelling, jand spreads quickly in all directions. From the very onset there is per- jtceived in the pustule a hard nucleus, which enlarges both inwards and > outwards, or only spreads laterally. Notwithstanding the decided swelling, ;the patient complains rather of tension than of actual pain. Sooner or Hater it is accompanied with fever, pain in the region of the stomach, :nau.sea, vomiting, high delirium, fainting, and so on. The pulse is small, irregular, and, if left to itself, the disease generally runs on to death, iwhich in malignant cases follows very speedily. It is rarely that the Bslough comes away, and that the cure is effected by the mere powers of mature, or that in the course of this disease the general symptoms already I mentioned do not appear. If several pustules are formed at the same ttime, especially on the neck or face, the disease is more dangerous. The (■swelling is often here so great that symptoms of suffbcation and conges- tion of the brain are produced. In women tlie disease proceeds more quickly than in men. At the onset a stop may usually be put to this klisease; the danger increases in its subsequent course. It differs from carbuncle {par. 118.) The contagion develops itself in beasts which are affected Avith conta-