633 MILK-CRUST. ; 798. The local treatment must lessen tlie irritation, loosen the crusts, I and cleanse the sores. This must be effected by frequent washing’ of the li; head with softening decoctions, by rubbing in mild sal'ves, fresh butter, ■ i ■ sulphur-flowers and hog’s lard, by softening poultices of mallows and ,'i: hemlock. This treatment, with at the same time cleaning the head with n combing, or cutting off the matted hair and removing the lice. If the ■; ulcers be obstinate, sulphur ointment must be used, or a solution of subli- 1: mate employed. This local, with internal treatment, corresponding to s the general state of the patient, and a properly regulated diet, ha,s up to 3 the present answered to my wishes in all cases. Other remedies that / have been recommended are, solution of sublimate with verdigris, solu- K tion of liver of sulphur, decoction of tobacco, red and white precipitate fli ointment, unguentum oxygenatum, eegyptiacum, citrinum, solution of sul- c ■ phate of potash with lime water, soap and spirits of wdne, and so on. In 1 very obstinate cases, according to Astrtjc and others, a plaster of gum a i ammoniacum and vinegar, thickly spread on leather, and applied for six I or eight weeks, will effect the cure. The pulling out the hairs with (1 forceps, or with strips of sticking plaster, is rarely, and only necessary >( when by their irritation they keep up the sore. The sudden tearing off j I of a pitch plaster, applied over the whole head, and therewith the sudden n removal of the hair is objectionable. When the scalled head has continued )1: a long while, artificial sores must be produced by mezereon, issues, and so , I on, before the cure can be effected. C.—OF MILK-CRUST. 3 Stback, C., De Crusta lactea infantum, ejusdemque specifico remedio. Dissert. •i. altera prsem. omat Frft., 1779. 12mo. 7 Wichmann’s Ideen zur Diagnostik, vd. i. p. 43. A Autenbieth, Versuche fiir die praktische Heilkunde aus den kiinischen Anstalten ' zu Tubingen, vol. i. pt. ii. r 799. Milk-crust (^Crusta lactea, Tinea faciei, Lat.; Milchborke, 9 Germ.; CroUte laiteuse, Fr.) consists in smarting spreading ulcers, which ;i i arise from little vesicles on the cheeks, ears, forehead, or chin ; these burst ■);: and pour out a yellowish fluid, which dries into white or yellowish crusts. •i The discharge from the ulceration is sometimes trifling, sometimes con- tl siderable. The eruption spreads gradually over the whole face, with which ti usually inflammation of the eyes is set up, even over part of the head, the > neck, and other parts, and the child wastes in consequence of the continual I? restlessness. ■ When this eruption is more moist and eating, great smarting is pro- ji duced from little blisters like pimples, slightly raised above the skin, and ii dusky, which soon spreading on the face and other parts, form dusky II crusts; and the children, from their continual uneasiness, often waste, i become feverish and miserable. The disease is, in this form, called Crusta .1 serpiginosa. ^ 800. Crusta lactea is generally a disease void of danger, and of inde- 'i finite duration, not unfrequently subsides of itself, (in which case the : urine is turbid and smells like cat’s urine,) and recedes without scarring. ' It occurs generally in infancy, but also in children from four to seven «' years of age, and even later. Its causes are too copious nourishment. i