DISLOCATION 772 f lialter bandage or by a clotli folded together passed beneath it and tied on • the head. The patient must for .some days refrain from talking or chew-!, ing, must only take fluid food, and for a long time use it cautiously, axid.^ in gaping support the chin with his hand. 1006. The case may be considered as suhluxation of the lower jaw, when r from great laxity of the ligaments, the condyles escape over the edge of . the inter-articular cartilages in the sockets of the temporal bones, and fix i the jaw with the mouth somewhat open. Generally this accident ig . relieved by the natural efforts ; it may, however, continue a longer time » and yet the capability of moving the jaw and closing the mouth may be» recovered. At the moment when this subluxation takes place the patient feels himself incapable of completely closing his mouth ; he feels some t pain, and the mouth on the affected side is least closed. Great depression i of the jaw directly downwards is required to restore the natural position i of the joint. In great laxity of the ligaments, a snapping and some pain is felt in the joint d( > the jaw, immediately before the ear, when the jaw suddenly returns into its socket, outu of which, on account of the looseness of the ligaments, it had escaped forward upon tbeu articular eminences. Young ladies are most subject to this accident; it is best relieved t by ammonia and steel, together with shower-bath and blistering, if the disease hate'i existed some time (A. Cooper.) 1007. Congenital dislocation of the lower jaw tvas first noticed by > Guerin (a), in a. foetus v/\ih. deficient formation of the brain. The stretch" ing and shortening of the depressing muscles, and of the m. pterygoideii extemi are remarkably opposed to the lengthening and thinning of the m. masseteres. Smith (b) observed a congenital dislocation of the jatv on the left side, in an idiot from birth, and considered it as consequent on i arrested development in the transverse root of the cheek-bone or of tlie . articular eminence, so that neither socket nor articular process being., present, the zygomatic process of the temporal bone was not formed, but that process of the cheek-bone was lengthened, the condyles of the lower- jaw were deficient, atrophy of the articular processes of both upper jaw and < cheek-bones, and the forward position of the orbits were changed. The case:- differed from dislocation by accident, in the mouth opening and shutting’: without hindrance, the lower jaw being movable to a great degree,' as. naturally, the upper jaw overhanging it, the coronoid process forming no prominence, and the speech not interfered with. II.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE VERTEBRAE.* (Luxatio Vertebrarum, Lat.; Verrenkmg der Wirbelbeine, Germ.; Luxation de la Colonne Vertebrate, Fr.) 1008. The connexion of the first vertebra with the occipital hone is so- firm, partly from the ligaments, partly from the muscles, partly from the condition of the joint-surfaces, that a dislocation at the junction of the first' vertebra with the head {Luxatio capitis, nucha) cannot well be produced, > and if it be so by extraordinarily great violence, it is absolutely fatal from ■ the simultaneous injury of the spinal marrow. (a) Recherches sur les Luxations Congpnitalcs. (6) Dublin Journal of Medical Science. > Paris, 1841. ' 1842. • The subjects Fractures and Dislocations of the Fericbrer are so closely connected, that it is impossible to separate them; and 1 have therefore already preferred considering tliem togeiher the former title (^p. 531, and following.)—J. F. S.