WOUNDS OF THE SPLEEN. 479 the wound. If bleeding continue, cold applications must be used, and a proper belly-bandage applied. If extravasation into the cavity of the belly take place, it must be treated according to the rules already given. If the wound suppurate, care must be taken for the proper escape of the pus, and the patient’s powers must be supported. 545. Wounds of the Gall Bladder, which are even possible without injury of the liver, are usually characterized by extravasation of bile into the cavity of the belly, and are in general fatal; only when the gall-bladder is accidentally adherent to the peritoneum can the bile escape externally and a biliary fistula remain. In effusion of bile the belly quickly swells and fluctuates, respiration is difficult, the pulse small, quick, and com- pressed, the extremities are cold, the countenance very pallid and drawn in. These symptoms are not relieved by blood-letting. Obstinate costive- ness, disposition to vomit, and actual vomiting occur. The small quantity of stool passed has a whitish colour, and the patient is jaundiced. This extravasation of bile is in general held as absolutely fatal. We have known but one case, in which, by three punctures made at different parts, a considerable quantity of fluid, exactly similar to bile, was discharged ; it must be observed, however, that the evacuated fluid was not chemically examined (a). Hcering (6) and Emmert (c) have injected bile into the cavity of the peritoneum, and found that great disturbance of the functions was always produced; but that the animals sometimes recovered. They found also that the injected bile was absorbed, and from these experiments, that it was the bile especially which produced these effects. They have also, after opening the belly, wounded the gall-bladder itself, and let the bile flow into the cavity, the consequence of which was death; this, however, must be also ascribed to the simultaneous affection of the other intestines by their protrusion and reduction. Autenbieth’s opinion, that the effusion of bile into the cavity of the belly is fatal, by the abstraction of the oxygen, is contradicted by these experiments. In one case the wound of the gall-bladder was found healed. It is important also to notice that, from the experiments of DuPtrvTREN (d), it has been ascertained, that extravasation of bile and urine cause fatal symptoms, although neither fluid is perceptible on dissection. [Gooch (e) quotes from the Philosophical Transactions the case of an officer who received a wound in the inferior part of the gall-bladder, without the adjacent parts suffering any considerable injury. The abdomen was immediately distended, as if the patient had been afflicted with an ascites or tympanitis, which continued till his death, about a week after receiving the wound. His bowels remained obstinately constipated, purges and clysters having no effect; and though considerable doses of opiates were given, they procured little or no ease. The external appearance of the wound was pale, erode, and flaccid On the fifth day he complained of nausea, and had slight hiccup; his pulse was strong, equal, and slow, till the day before he died, and then intermitted a little. His senses were perfect till death, (pp. 410, 11.)] C.—OF WOUNDS OF THE SPLEEN. 546. Wounds of the Spleen are mostly fatal, on account of the large bleeding and the collection of blood in the belly. They require the same I treatment as wounds of the liver {f\ S [Astley Coopeb {g) mentions the case of a man stabbed “ with a dirk, which entered I near the ensiform cartilage, and was nearly buried in the body. He was brought to St. I (n) Fryer, in Medic.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. iv. II p. :sio. ” ! Q>) Dissert, si^ns experimenta ile mutationi- ;i Bas, qiuu materia: in cavum Peritonei Animaliura i . ingMt® turn in corpoie efllciunt, turn ipso: sub- leunt. Tubing., iSn. (c) Meckel’s Archiv. fur die Physiologie, vol. iv. part iv. (d) Sabatier, loc. cit., vol. ii. p. 157. (e) A Practical Treatise of Wounds, &c. Nor- wich, 1767, vol. i. 8vo. (/) Hesse, Altenburgischen Annalen, 1825. (si) Lectures, edited by Tyrrell, vol. iii.