255 KINDS OF HIP-DISEASE. n(lvancL>d stage of tlie disease, the nates are really wider, in consequence of the aceta- bulum being filled with coagulable 13'mph and matter, and the head of the femur being pushed out of its natural situation. But in general the increased breadth of the nates is only appiii'cnt, and on an accurate measurement no difference will be found between the nates on one side and those of the other. The alteration in the figure of the parts, in those cases may arise partly from the position in which the patient usually places him- self when he stands erect; but the principal cause to which it is to be attributed, is the wasting of the large fleshy bellies of the glutmi muscles, from want of use; and this has been ascertained by repeated and accurate examinations of the living, and numerous dissections of the dead body.” (p. 153-57.) “ While the disease is going on in the cancellous structure of the bone, before it has extended to the other textures, and while there is still no evident swelling, the patient experiences some degree of pain, which, however, is never so severe as to occasion serious distress, and often is so slight, and takes place so gradually, that it is scarcely noticed. After a time (which maj' vary from a few weeks to several months) the parts external to the joint begin to sympathise with those within it, and, serum and coagulable lymph being effused into the cellular membrane, the joint appears swollen. The swelling is puffy and elastic, and though usually more in degree than it is, at the same period, in those cases in which the ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease, it is not greater in appearance, because the muscles of the limb are not equally wasted from want of exercise. I have observed that in children the swelling is, in the first instance, usually less diffused and. somewhat firmer to the touch than in the adult. If a suspicion of some disease of the joint has not existed previously, it is always awakened as soon as the swelling has taken place. Should the patient be a child, it not uncom- monly happens that the swelling is the first thing which the nurse or the parents dis- cover. This leads to a more accurate inquiry, and the child is observed to limp in walking, if the disease be in the lower limb, and to complain of pain on certain occa- sions. * * * The swelling increases, but not uniformly, and it is greater after the limb has been much exercised than when it has been allowed to remain for some time in a state of quietude. As the cartilages continue to ulcerate the pain becomes some- what, but not materially, aggravated. It is not severe until abscess has formed, and the parts over the abscess have become distended and inflamed. The skin, under these cir- cumstances, assumes a dark-red or purple colour. The abscess is slow in its progress; when it bursts, or is opened, it discharges a thin pus, with portions of curdly substance floating in it. Afterwards the discharge becomes smaller in quantity, and thicker in consistence; and, at last, it nearly resembles the cheesy matter which is found in scro- fulous absorbent glands. In most instances several abscesses take place in succession, but at various intervals; some of which heal, while others remain open, in the form of fistulous sinuses, at the bottom of which carious bone may be distinguished by means of a probe, (p. 250-53.) The progress of the malady in both these forms of hip-disease are very nearly alike; in both is there the same reference of the pain to the knee rather than to the joint affected, the same alteration in the appearance of the nates, the same shortening of the limb from destruction of the head of the thigh-bone, or its dislocation, and the same production of abscesses. But the principal distinction is in the less degree of pain which accompanies the scrofulous disease, “ except in a very few instances, and in the most advanced stage of the disease, when a portion of the ulcerated bone has died, and having exfoliated, so as to be loose in the cavity of the joint, irritates the parts with which it is in contact, and thus becomes a source of constant torment.” (p. 256.)] 232. Among the phenomena which appear in the course of the coxalgia, tlie shortening and lengthening of the diseased limb have specially attracted the attention of physicians, and have given rise to various explanations which must be particularly considered. [“ In most cases of lameness or wasting of the lower extremities, the affected limb ” says JouN Hunter (a), “ appears longer than the other, in consequence of the patient pressing most on the sound limb, and putting the diseased one further out from the pelvis so as to raise the ilium. This is particularly the case in diseases of the hip although the leg is not found to be longer than the other, if the patient is laid on tlie back It arises from the centre of motion in the pelvis being rather altered by habit which IS removed if the patient is laid on the back. But sometimes, when the muscles are much wasted, the limb is shorter, which I cannot account for, iior ivliy the limb is («) Lectures, Palmeu’s Edition.