523 IN COMPOUND FRACTUKES. stop immediately as ■well as those called colliquative. I have known a purging imme- diately stop upon the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment. It is possible too that the pain in the operation and the sympathetic affection of the consti- tution may assist in tliese salutary effects. It is an action diametrically opposite to the hectic, and may be said to bring back tlie constitution to a natural state, (p. .504.) 4thly. OJ'the advaiitaye hoped for bif the immediate removal of the injured parts in pre- ference to the attempt at saving them.—From the amputation of a limb which has suf- fered compound fracture, we hope by removing an irritating cause, and by bringing about the adhesive instead of the ulcerative process, or in other words by making a clean cut wound, in place of a torn and bruised wound, and so causing union by adhesion, instead of by suppuration, to prevent or at any rate to lessen the irritative fever, which is always expected, and which indeed is only indicative of the constitutional excite- ment necessary for the repair of such injuries. Such was John Hunter’s opinion, for he observes:—“ Simple violence, even with the loss of a part, is not of such consequence as we should at first imagine; for, in consequence of the loss of a limb, if the parts are allowed to heal by the first intention, the constitution is but little affected; it is, there- fore, violence with loss of substance, and which is to produce inflammation and suppura- tion, that gives rise to the constitutional symptoms, and when these commence, or more probably when the part sets about these operations, the constitution becomes affected. It is more the new disposition in the parts than the quantity of inflammatory action in them by which the constitution is affected; for we shall see that upon the simple commence- ment of the suppurative disposition, before it takes place, rigors, &c., come on.” (p. 400-1.) The object of immediate amputation is then to prevent, as far as possible, the constitution acquiring this suppurative disposition, and the accompanying irritative fever, and to encourage the quieting of the constitutional excitement necessary for the reparation of the injury, by converting a wound, which would, in course of its cure, greatly disturb the vital forces, into one which might be expected to proceed to union with comparatively little effort on the part of the constitution. It must be admitted, that sometimes after early amputation, the adhesive process will not take place, but the whole surface of the stump becomes sloughy, and the sympathetic fever runs high, and even destroys the patient. I do not, however, think the possibility of such occurrence an objection to the early operation, as it is probable, that the same kind of constitution producing these effects, would have equally produced them, had no operation been performed. So that in reality, the patient’s condition is not, under any circumstances, rendered worse, and if he scramble through, is better, inasmuch as the operation having been performed, no repetition of violent shock to the constitution is called for in way of amputation. 1 have myself so frequently and successfully pursued the practice of immediate amputa- tion, and have seen it practised in our hospital by my colleagues with advantage, that I have no doubt of its propriety. One important point, however, in the constitutional treatment must not be overlooked, as upon that I consider our success has mainly depended, viz., as far as possible to preserve the patients’ ordinary mode of living, especially if they have been accustomed to large quantities of beer or spirits ; for if these be withdrawn, or even not given in such quantity, as by some would be con- sidered, highly improper, the patient will most assuredly sink. On this point, therefore, we must cautiously feel our way, and give either beer or spirits, or both, as the patient may seem to require, and may be able to bear. It is also right to observe that the constitutional excitement, whether amputation be or be not performed, is most to be feared in injury of the lower limbs. Whilst on the contrary, early amputations of the upper limbs almost invariably recover without the least drawback.—J. F. S.] 591. In the treatment of fractures, especially of those w hich are com- pound, and of the lower limbs, the use of a suspensory apparatus has been recommended, in which the broken limb lies entirely free, and the appli- cation of proper remedies to the wounded part, and the motions of the limb are possible. Greatly convenient, however, as this apparatus is to the patient, it can only be used in transverse fractures in which the con- traction of tlie muscles is not so very much opposed to it. The siving, however, connected with continued extension affords great advantages. [There are two modes of treating compound fracture, which, from repeatedly pur- suing, I am convinced are, generally, the best of all that have been proposed. The first IS the bracket-splint used by Abernethy, which can be applied on any limb; and the second is the swing-box, or slings, which can only be used for the fore-arm and leg •