352 BITES OF INSECTS. •were stung by them in Egypt ■was amputation. One species is said to occasion madness • and the black scorpion both of South America and Ceylon frequently inflicts a mortal wound ” (p. 12.').) Our common gnat and the mosquito ( Culex pipiens) are among those insects which though unprovided with a special sting, yet, according to Kirby and Spknce, “instil into the •H’ound, made with their mouth, a poison, the principal use of which is to render the blood more fluid and fitter for suction.” (p. 11.3.) Every one is unfor- tunately too well acquainted with the smarting pain and swelling produced by the gnat, and Mosely says of the bites of the mosquito, that they are “ sometimes scratched into painful acrid ulcers, particularly in the legs.” (p. 24.) Fleas and bugs are also very irritating, and the bites of the latter especially will often produce considerable swelling of an cedematous character, when they have been made on the eyelids or cheeks of delicate children. The harvest bug (Acarus autumnalis, Shaw) annoys us considerably. It is “a hexa- pod so minute,” say Kirby and Spence, “ that were it not for the uncommon brilliancy of its colour, which is the most vivid crimson that can be conceived, it would be quite invisible * * * It attacks the legs of labourers employed in the harvest, in the flesh of which it buries itself at the root of the hairs, producing intolerable itching, attended by inflammation and considerable tumours, and sometimes even occasioning fevers.” (p. 105.) Of this abominable plague I had personal experience many years ago whilst in Sussex, during harvest-time. Both legs were attacked, and the itching was so intense that I could not refrain from constant clawing (scratching will not express what I mean); the irritation continued for between a week and a fortnight, and the result was many troublesome and some not shallow sores which did not become quiet and heal for many weeks. The writers just quoted mention other acari, whose operations are very troublesome, and, among them, one “ common in Martinique, and called there bite rouge. V.'^hen our soldiers in camp were attacked by this animal, dangerous ulcers succeeded the symptoms just mentioned, which in several cases became so bad, that the limb affected was obliged to be taken off.” * * * But the worst of all the tick tribe is the American, {A. Americanus, Lin.,) described by Professor Kalm. This insect, which is related to the dog-tick, is found in the woods of North America, and is equally an enemy to man and beast. They are there so infinitely numerous, that, if you sit down upon the ground, or upon the trunk of a tree, or walk with naked feet or legs, they will cover you, and plunge their serrated rostrum into the bare places of the body, begin to suck your blood, going deeper and deeper till they are half buried in the flesh, though at first they occasion no uneasiness. When they have thus made good their settlement, they pro- duce an intolerable itching, followed by acute pain and large tumours. It is now ex- tremely difficult to extract them, the animal rather suffering itself to be pulled to pieces than let go its hold; so that the rostrum and head being left in the wound produce an inflammation and suppuration which render it deep and dangerous. These ticks are at first very small, sometimes scarcely visible, but by suction will swell themselves out till they are as big as the end of one’s finger, when they often fall to the ground of them- selves.” (p. 106.) Other insects become sources of annoyance, not from the irritation of any poison, but simply by burying themselves beneath the skin to deposit their eggs. Of this kind is the great West Indian plague, the chigoe {Pulex penetrans.') Mosely in speaking of them says:—“ Another tropical insect frequently attacks the feet and toes of new comers, and surprises them with an unusual sensation of itching. ^ * They are al)oat the size of a cheese-mite ; they lance the skin imperceptibly in the soles of the feet, or about the toe-nails, and insinuate themselves, where they deposit their eggs, including their eggs and themselves in a little round vesicle, which increases to the size of a small pea, sometimes before it is noticed. It then acquires a bluish appearance, from the colour of the chigoe itself, which is in the midst of an innumerable quantity of ani- vtalcula, each of which is capable of creating a new disturbance, if, in taking out the bag it be broken, and any remain behind in the flesh. Some people have had great in- flammations from them, and some have had their toes mortified. The negroes often let them collect and remain in their feet until their toes rot off. The common metliod of taking out the bag is with the point of a needle, witliout piercing it by separating it from the skin quite round and drawing it out; then filling up the hole, and rubbing the part with tobacco ashes.” (pp. 25, 6.)J 354. The severity of the symptoms after the bite of a riper depends on various circumstances; for example, wliether more or less fluid has been