340 TREATMENT OF shin-bone. Both halves passed the calf of the leg a little apart, and lodged in the thick- ness of the other leg, which was behind. Such cases are not rare.” (p. 429.) (3) Upon this point Guthkie observes“ If there be but one opening to be seen, it is • usual to suppose the ball has lodged ; but this does not always follow, although the linger may pass into the wound for some distance • ♦ * It sometimes happens in injuries of tlie head, that the ball drives a piece of bone nearly of its own size into the substance of the brain, although it does not actually penetrate with it, but falls to the groimd. A ball will often be turned, as is well known, by a slight resistance which is not directly opposed to it; but if the resistance be greater than the momentum, and offered by an elastic body, the ball may retrace the passage it has made ; as, for instance, when op- posed by the cartilages of the ribs, or any strong tendon.” (p. 19.) 338. Shot-wounds are most generally complicated with the presence of ' foreign bodies in the cavity of the wound. These may be, the ball itself, the wadding, pieces of clothes, splinters of bone, and so on. Slow balls < usually drive a larger piece of the clothes into the canal of the wound, than balls which still move quickly, and where usually but a single tear, corresponding to the size of the ball, is found. 339. The prognosis of gun-shot wounds is the more serious as the ; wound is less simple; the greater the destruction, which the ball lias » produced by its size and swiftness, the more sensitive the wounded person i is, and the more important is the injured part. The degree of the shock, . the severity of the inflammatory symptoms, mortification, and copious t suppuration, are in shot-wounds generally to be dreaded; and these evils s are increased by the condition in which the wounded are commonly found, I, their crowding together in hospitals, the prevalence of contagious disease, i, the danger of hospital gangrene, of tetanus, and so on. 340. If the injury in shot-wound be not such as at once to requires the amputation of the limb, or the stanching of a severe bleeding, the i first indication is to examine the wound carefully, in order to ascertain its n course and the presence of any foreign body : all which has been men- h tinned {pars. 275 and 306) in regard to the examination of wounds and thes extraction of foreign bodies applies here. | The enlargement of the shot-wound, in former times generally prac-4 tised, may, besides in the cases where the discovery and extraction of 4 foreign bodies render it feasible, be necessary for the following reasonsi 1. In shot-wounds of parts covered with a tough aponeurosis ; for instance,« on the back of the neck and spine, on the shoulder, fore-arm, hand, on4 the upper and outer part of the thigh, on the leg, and on the sole of the« foot. In these cases the aponeurosis must be always more extensively cutti into, than the underlying parts, whereby the dreaded strangulation of tliei parts, in the ensuing swelling, can, simply and alone, be prevented. 2. la' shot-wounds in very yielding parts, where a great outpouring of blood* always takes place, as in the scrotum. 3. When fibrous parts and nervest are only half divided, and much bruised. 4. In bleedings for the purpose* of laying bare and tying the vessel. 5. When a bullet is lodged in £ joint, and the wounded person resists amputation. 6. In wounds pene^» trating cavities, for the purpose of emptying the extravasated blood. Enlargement of the wound may also be necessary at a subsequent period« in order to furnish a proper outlet for pus, or for the removal of loos<i splinters of bone or other foreign bodies. In making the enlargement i button-ended bistoury is to be introduced upon the forefinger of the lef hand, or upon a hollow director, and the wound enlarged in such direc' tion and extent as the position of the part and the individual case ma; require.