594 OF HARE-LIP. the fractured ends may be very dangerous. Great inflammation, suppura- , tion, and gangrene may occur, and these may even proceed to a fatal result. ] In the thigh, the section is always effected with great difficulty and much | danger; it has, however, been there performed with success (a) : in limbs »j which have two bones the section has been considered impracticable; | Fricke (b), however, and Cittadini (c) have performed it successfully . on the fore-arm. Opinions as to the preference of the seton or of the . section are very much divided; by both one as well as by the other mcxle ■( of treatment, fortunate and unfortunate results have taken place; and i, equally celebrated Surgeons have held with the one and against the other r; practice (rf). [As far as my own observation and experience are concerned I cannot say that there : | is great encouragement for the performance of any operation for ununited or imper- , fectly united fracture, and I think a comparison of the results of the numerous cases »; ■which have been variously treated -will confirm this opinion. The most favourable r. cases are those in -which the ends of the bone are connected by cartilage or a cartilage -: like substance, and in such I should certainly prefer the introduction of caustic potasL The least favourable cases are those in -which the fractured ends have acquired a carti- ■ laginous covering and are enclosed in a sort of synovial capsule, which indicates a total . - indisposition to the formation of callus; and therefore cutting off the ends, or scraping i, off their thin cartilaginous covering, is a very doubtful proceeding, as union will com- -. monly not occur and the fractured ends be re-covered, as in Green’s case. Perh^ .. where the union is prevented by loose pieces between the ends of the broken bone, if :i these be removed, union may take place ; but that this is very uncertain is proved by t Mackmurdo’s case. The great difficulty to contend with, in determining on the performance of any ope- - ration with the reasonable hope of success, is the almost utter impossibility of distm- - guishing the real cause of the want of firm union, which can only be ascertained when s the fractured part is exposed; and which very frequently disproves the diagnosis pre- - viously made. I think therefore that it is advisable in all cases of ununited fractore » in which operations are performed that the Surgeon should fairly warn the patient of •• the great vmcertainty of their result and leave him to determine for himself.—J. F. S.j II.—OF HARE-LIP. (Labium Leporinum, Lat.; Hasenscharte, Germ.; Bee de Limre, Fr.) Heister, L., De Labio Leporino. Helmst., 1744. Louis ; in Memoires de I’Acad^mie de Chirurgie, vol. iv. p. 385. Locheb, De Operatione Labii Leporini. dense, 1792. Freteb, De modis variis quibus Labium Leporinum curatur. Halse, 1793. Celeier i)e Clermont, De la Di-vision Labiale. Paris, an xi. Rieg, Abhandlung von der Hasenscharte. Frankfurt, 1803. Desault, (Euvres Chimrgicales, vol. ii. p. 173. Rau, J. D. L., Dissert, de Labio Leporino cum proeminentiis Maxillte Superioris complicate. BeroL, 1818. Caspar, C. R., De Labio Leporino. An rv. Goetting, 1837. 4to.; with engraving- . Mettauer, John P., M.D., On Staphyloraphy; in American Journal of Medical i ; Sciences, vol. xxi. 1837. Demoncy, C., Dissert, de Lahio Leporino. (o) Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. ii. p. 47. (H Oppenheim, abovecited, p. 242. (c) Ommodei, Annali universali de Medicina, Marzo, 1826, p.411. (d) Note the comparison of the cases of the one and other mode of treatment by Opfenueiu. Mosquee, 1839. llAi.Lir, Apparat zur flxirung 4er f»l*^ Gelenke. See Tboschei., Dissert. dePseudirtliro*- Berlin, 1826. . , SoMUE*,On the Cure of a False Joint by the duction of a silver loop and extension apparat®** in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xvi. p. 36.