648 SYPHILITIC is found reddened, the tonsils and uvula swollen ; the redness, specially fixed on certain spots, is on otliers pale and discoloured. These place* break up and run into ulcers, which are sufficiently characterized by their peculiar appearance. Vesicles often arise on the inside of the cheeks or at the corners of the mouth, which sometimes run into ulcers. These sores spread quickly, destroy the pendulous palate, attack the bones of the nose, produce a stinking secretion from it, ( Ozcena syphilitica,) caries and destruction of the nose-bones. 821. On the external skin syphilis appears as blotches, {Maculce, Lat.; Flecken, Germ. ; Taches, Fr.,) vesicles, ( Vesiculce, Lat. ; Blatterchen, Germ ; Vesicules, Fr.,) or pustules, {Pustulce, Lat.; Pusteln, Germ.; Pustules, Fr.,) which are especially common on the face and forehead, (co- rona Veneris,) and at first have a pale but subsequently a copper-coloured redness. The pustules are surrounded with a reddish brown edge, are some- times single, sometimes collected in groups ; they often produce consi- derable burning, especially at night, and frequently run into ulcers which have purple edges, and secrete an ill-conditioned ichor; they usually increase only in breadth, though often in depth, and even attack the bones. If pustules occur on hairy parts, the hairs fell off; if beneath the nails, these fall off also, or are loosened by the ulcers, and the fresh growing nail is misshapen. These pustules often appear in form of small boils, which do not suppurate, but merely trickle. [Lawrence describes four forms of cutaneous syphilitic eruptions; “ 1st, The scaly ■! eruption is one of the most common. The skin before the eruption appears exhibits * a kind of mottled or marbled appearance all over the body. If you strip the patient though the skin is seen in the natural state, yet there is a streaked or mottled appear- ance underneath; there are little patches of red appearing through the cuticle, which give it that appearance. Very soon you observe spots of a reddish brown, or what would be called a coppery colour on the skin; and this has always been the marked character of venereal eruption. These reddish-brown superficial discolorations of the skin soon become more deeply coloured. The cuticle covering them desquamates a little, becomes scaly, and the cuticle separates. The spots increase in size; they often run together, so that you have considerable patches of the skin in various parts of the body assuming this colour. In the end these discolorations generally are large in siie and particularly vivid. ■ They have a bright coppery-red colour, and the cuticle over them becomes very scaly. They are very strongly marked when they occur in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; then the contrast of the colour of the diseased with the healthy skin is very strong; and the cuticle being thick, cracks and assumes a whitish appearance, and what would have come under the description of that which WiLLAN and Bateman call syphilitic lepra or syphilitic psoriasis. 2nd. Very fre- quently syphilitic eruption exhibits itself in the tubercular form. In the scaly fom just mentioned, the discoloration is superficial, and the coppery red spots do not rise above the level of the surrounding sound skin, but in the tubercular eruption you have a small kind of eruption with the point more raised, and as that proceeds, the cuticle goes into the scaly state, so that that is in fact a scaly eruption, although there is a tubercular elevation of the cuticle in the first instance. 3rd. In other cases there is a more acute action of the skin—active inflammation, with the formation of inflamed pimples, or of papula, as they are technically termed. These arise in clusters and patches in various parts of the body; after remaining for a time, they vesicate and sup- purate, and that suppuration dries up, and they go into a scaly state, and you have * succession of those pimples forming over various parts of the body; this is called papular venereal eruption. 4th. There is another form in which you see it, where pustules, that is, inflammation of the skin, takes place, effusion occurs, and the cuticle is elevated into inflamed pustules; these proceed and form venereal ulcers, that is, the pustular venereal eruption. These are the principal forms of eruption, obseiwed as secondary symptoms of syphilis; a scaly eruption wdiich may be called syphilitic Irjy^ or syphilitic psoriasis, a tubercular eruption, a papular eruption, and a pustular eruption proceeding to ulceration. Now you do not find these eruptions always distinct; ft**