556 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER- middle on both sides, applied on the wliole length of both upper- and fore- arm, and upon the sides of flexion and extension, and fastened with another bandage. Tlie fore-arm sliould also be put in a sling. The apparatus must be re-applied as often as it gets displaced, and the patient treated according to the inflammatory symptoms. In forty days the consolidation is usually effected. In all fractures of the upper extremities in which swathing with a circular bandage is used, it is alwaj^s best to enrol each finger in a small bandage, and to commence the application of ,the larger one at the wrist; by which we prevent the turns above the hand being so readily loosened and stripped off. In the permanent apparatus of Seutin, the five fingers should first be swathed, and afterwards the hand and fore-arm surrounded with a circular bandage, to be applied during the extension and counter extension also over the fore-arm. The bandages may be overspread with plaster of Paris, and the fore-arm kept half bent, between pronation and supination. A pair of pasteboard splints, an external and an internal one, should be cut out to fit, which, as they are applied throughout the whole length of the limb, should correspond to the angle at the elbow-joint, so as to exactly fit the bend of the fore-arm. They should be only so broad, that when applied there may be a finger’s breadth between them before and behind, so that they may be capable of being brought nearer together. The splints, moistened and spread with plaster, may be applied, - i fastened with a new bandage, with which, if you please, a bandage may be formed' . beneath the opposite arm-pit, and a spica on the injured shoulder. The bandages are to be smeared with the plaster. If it be necessary to perform the motions of flexion and extension at the elbow-joint, the splint must be either divided into two parts at the elbow-joint, or it must be torn at the proper part, after it has been moistened with water, - and the elbow-joint surrounded with a fresh bandage, covered with a thin layer of plaster, by which the part may attain its suitable firmness. In fracture of the lower part of the upper arm, I have always found the above-described apparatus suflficient Dopuytren laid the arm on a pillow, applied on the front and back of the seat of fracture circularly two graduated compresses, three or four inches long and two inches broad, fastened with two long pads and Sccltetos’s bandage, and then applied below two chaff bags, and splints on the front and back, and fastened them with bandages. If this fracture be not set it forms a misshapen callus, and the upper end continuing to project, the bending and straightening of the upper arm is considerably interfere! with. [Fracture through the middle of the upper-arm may be very well treated with a gum roller. Fracture of the lower third of the bone is best managed with Amesbory’s angular splint placed in front of the bend of the elbow.—J. F. S.] 650. A bad complication of the fracture at the lower end of the upper- arra-bone is the separation of the condyles. They are either both sepa- rated by a vertical cleft which extends to the transverse fracture, or one or other condyle is separated by an oblique fracture. In the Jirst case the deformity of the joint is distinct, the fore arm is generally in a state of pronation, and the mobility of both condyles and crepitation are perceptible; in the second, mobility and crepitation of one condyle only is felt. In fracture of the outer condyle the crepitation is felt, especially in rotation of the hand and spoke-bone ; if the fractured piece be large it is drawn backwards, and the spoke-bone with it. In fracture of the inner condyle, the cubit is drawn back and its point of support lost; if the fore-arm be straightened the hand is drawn inwards, but this disappears on bending the fore-arm. In these cases there is always considerable swelling, which renders the diagnosis very difficult. If the fracture be set and the condyle put in its proper place, the apparatus must be applied as already described, and displacement prevented by four splints, which must be arranged to prevent bending of the elbow-joint. The inflammation is always verj’ con- siderable, and after cure the motions of the joint are much interfered with