676 MERCURIAL DISEASE. purse, on the insides of the thighs or fore-arms, and gra<iually spread over ^ the whole body. After a shorter or longer time, the cuticle is shed in thin t whitish scales; but if tlie ailment be left to itself, a large quantity of ve-'.*' sides or pustules arise which contain an acrid, stinking, very irritating*:' fluid, and on their bursting more or loss thick crusts are formed by tlie > drying of the fluid (3). 2. As ulcers in the throat and mouth which are characterized, not merely \ by their grayish-white and flabby appearance, but also by their whole ex- ternal form, which is more easily distinguishable by the eye than to be- described by words. Pain and tension arise in the soft palate, and in the •< tonsils, with heat and a peculiar sensation of dragging of the palate towardgis the hinder part of the nostrils; much excoriation on the soft palate, the '< uvula, and tonsils, and actual ulcers, having the appearance of whitish dis--; coloured spots, especially on the hinder wall of the pharynx (4). A peculiar ■ characteristic is the disposition the ulcer shows to change its place. Even t true syphilitic sores may, by the too long continued use of mercurj", dege-? nerate into mercurial sores. As the disease proceeds the pendulous palate is n destroyed, and ozcena, caries of the nose-bones, pains in the bones, (wanting,.. however, the nightly exacerbation,) enlargement of the bones, and caries t occur. Upon the varied appearances and degrees of the mercurial cachexy, see the before-, . mentioned excellent Paper of Dietrich. [(1) Carmichael does not hold with the notion of a mercurial disease. He says- “ In ascribing those symptoms (mercurial chancres, ulcers, pains, &c.) to mercury, we . have entirely overlooked this obvious circumstance, that that medicine, when exhibited . even to profusion for liver, or any disease which is not venereal, has never in any one ^ instance produced those results. With respect to the deteriorating influence of mer- i cury, 1 am perfectly willing to allow, that when it does not altogether supersede the actions of a morbid poison, it may so far alter or modify its symptoms, as to change^ j in a great measure the appearance and natural progress of the disease; but this is >: essentially different from an admission, that the remedy will produce symptoms which •; can scarcely be distinguished from those of the poison itself.” (p. 46.) j | Lawrence observes :—“ Among the prejudicial effects of mercury, are enumerateusli by those who are unfavourable to its use, eruptions, iritis, affections of the nose, affec- 5;; tions of the bones, and affections of the joints, that is, a considerable portion of those symptoms which we know are secondary symptoms of syphilis. It has been contendedl ''i by those who in modern times have been the great advocates for the treatment of '5 syphilis without mercury, that a great portion of those symptoms ordinarily described as secondary, are really owing to the action of the remedies employed to counteract the 1 syphilis. Now, in the first place, we may observe that all these symptoms may be " produced without the employment of mercury; we know perfectly well that each of t them is seen in individuals who have taken no mercury at all. We have, therefore, clear evidence that all these effects may be produced by the disease. We have not the same evidence that they may be produced on the contrary, by the employment of mer- cury. Mercury is given in many cases besides those of syphilis; it is given to a very ' considerable extent in other cases, but in no instance where it is given in other dise**^ do we find it produce eruptions like syphilitic eruptions; in no such instance, do we find it produce iritis, swelling of the nose, or of the bones, or of the periosteum. The effects then, in question can be produced by pox without mercury, but we have not the same evidence | that they can be produced by mercury without pox; now, it is true, that mercury and pox acting together may produce a something that neither would produce singly. I readily admit that tlie injudicious use of mercury; that the employment of it in case* « which it ought not to be used; that persevering in the employment of it in cases wfaw it exerts one or other of its noxious effects, may aggravate the symptoms, may tend to produce their return more, readily make them more difficult of cure; and thu^ think, we can have no difficulty in admitting that the employment of mercury, such circumstance.', may add to the difficulties which may attach to the disease its<*‘- I cannot, however, for my own part, see any evidence that mercury is capable of pt®"