LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 334 From frequent observation I think 1 may say that tom wounds of the scalp more often do ■well than those of other parts, I have several times seen large flaps lorn down in more than two or three instances nearly half the scalp torn down, which have united without difficulty, with or without any abscess forming here and there during the progress of the cure, even in cases where the cellular tissue has been so daubed with mud or sand that it has been sponged off' with the greatest difficulty Such cases are, however, to be much dreaded from cellular inflammation and slougli which commonly ensue, and from the participation of the membranes of the brain with the external injury. When large portions of skin are stripped down from the limbs, there is the greater danger of the whole piece sloughing, for the vessels of the parts beneath being ail tom through are incapable of effecting adhesive union, and the skin itself is not sufficiently vascular for its own support, except close to its remaining attachments. The result of ' this is a large destruction of the skin and a large sloughy surface beneath, for the throwing off of which greater calls are made upon the constitution than it can answer ■ to; and the patient either dies in a few hours of the shock, or is cut off after a few days with typhoid symptoms. In such cases, in adult persons, my observation both in my own practice and that of others, induces me to recommend amputation as a general rule. Only in very young persons does it seem to me to admit of a moment’s hesita- • tion; hut as regards them, every possible chance of their being able to struggle throng i the consequences of the injury should be well considered, for daily experience shows hw great are the powers of Nature in youth to repairing injuries which would assuredly destroy adults.—J. F. S.] 333. Bruises without producing separation of the skin may injure the • underlying parts severely, and tear the cellular tissue and blood-vessels, . by which outpouring of blood into the cellular tissue may ensue. Such i extravasation of blood, even if accompanied with fluctuation and pulsation, . is often quickly resolved ; but if not, the swelling bursts, blood mixed with i pus is discharged, and healing by granulation ensues. These bruises are at first to be treated antiphlogistically, and cold appli- - cations used. When the inflammation and swelling diminishes, volatile ? lotions of camphorated spirit, soap spirit, aqua vuhieraria, water and sal 1 volatile, or poultices of aromatic herbs, may be used. If a large artery be e wounded, it may be necessary to expose and take it up. If the swelling do a not disperse, but goes on to suppuration, it must be treated as an abscess. [The effusion of blood from severe bruising is frequently great and so rapid as to s lead often to the supposition of an artery being tom. The patient’s condition, however, is the best means of solving the difficulty; if the swelling be large, but after the first a shock the pulse continue little disturbed, and the countenance not pallid, and after a ^ few hours the swelling cease to increase, it may be presumed that the extravasation is i* merely from the small arterial branches and veins. The quantity of serum in these 4 cases generally far exceeds the mass of the clot, and the consequence is that very dis- W tinct fluctuation, like water in a bladder, often pervades the greater part of the swelling f and continues for some days in proportion to its size. Suppuration occasionally happens in these cases, but it is not of frequent occurrence. If an artery of any materitd sizeK be torn, the swelling continues gradually increasing, and is generally much more firm, ti and little fluctuating, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the injured vessel, thexi effusion in this case being entirely blood, and coagulating soon after it has been poured out. If left alone the continued distension will cause gangrene. I In the ordinary run of severe bmises, even with much effusion, I prefer a warm a ■ linseed-meal poultice, or hot moist flannel, to cold applications, as the warmth and«l moisture are generally most agreeable to the patient's feelings, by suppling the skin and I exciting perspiration on the surface. If the tension be very great leeches should be. B applied freely, and repeated if necessary. If a large artery be injured it must either be ■ tied or the limb amputated ; but, in either case, the patient is in some jeopardy of gan- ■ grene, from the distension of the soft parts, which has occurred.—J. F. S.] ■