305 ARTERIES. up a large vessel; drawing it out with one pair, in the way he recommends, and then w^th the other clearing it entirely of all its surrounding connexions. This was the younger Cline’s practice, and I think very good, as it certainly excludes the accompany- ing nerve, which often excites severe pain and irritation. I am not, however, sure thiU the complete separation from the neighbouring parts at all hastens the throwing oii the ligature. , . ^ * i • The tenaculum is the instrument more generally employed in this country tor taking up arteries; but I think it objectionable, as it commonly lifts up a large mass ot sott parts which ought not to be included in the ligature. It may not be amiss to observe here, that tying a ligature requires rather ™ore at- tention than is commonly paid to it. Generally it is necessary to pass one end of fte thread only once through the other, but some surgeons prefer twice,^ and sometimes this is convenient if the operator be short of assistants. Each thread is to be held by the forefinger and tliumb of the corresponding hand, as near the wmund as possible, and as the ends are drawn tight the middle finger of each hand is to be carried below the former upon the thread as close to the knot as possible, so as to pull upon the vessel with the least disturbance of its position. This is infinitely preferable to pulling at the ends of the thread two or three inches from the tie, and thereby dragging the artery up from its bed, as too commonly practised. Neither in making the second tie to com- plete the knot should one end of the thread be kept constantly in the same hand, and the other turned round it and then passed through the loop, as by this practice the knot is unsafe and often slips. But the first tie having been made, the finger of an assistant should be pressed slightly on, so as to keep it steady, whilst the two ends are carried across and made to change hands, after which the end not passed through the first loop should be put through the second, and the tie made as before. In this way both ends equally participate in the knot, and render it secure and safe. I have been particular in describing this seemingly trivial operation, because in reality it is a very serious one, as upon the fixity of the knot depends the patient’s safety.—J. F. S.] 292. If the mouth of ati artery have so retracted that it cannot be taken hold of, it is better to lay it bare by a careful incision, and to tie it alone, than to dip for it, {als sie zu umstechen,') that is, to carry, with a semicir- cular movement, a common-handled needle armed with a ligature through the neighbouring parts, on both sides of the vessel, and then to draw the ' threads sufficiently tight. The dipping is only necessary when the vessel has such firm adhesions that it cannot be taken hold of. If a pretty large ! injured artery cannot be laid bare within the wound, it is better to expose : it between the wounded part and the heart, and tie it there. On large arteries, (the branches of which anastomose freely,) whether partially or com- pletely divided, it is necessary to apply two ligatures, one above and another below the division, to prevent after-bleeding, which may take place by regurgitation of the blood 1 from the lower end of the artery. On this account, also, in wounds of the larger r branches of a large artery, if the latter be tied above the wounded part, after-bleeding I ensues from the quickly established collateral circulation (a). ! [Another point in reference to taking up wounded arteries is also not to be over- looked, namely, that if that side of the limb at which the wounding instrument have entered be at a greater distance from the artery than the sound side, it is preferable to ; cut doivn upon the vessel at the uninjured part. I recollect some years ago seeing this ■practice adopted with great success by my friend Travers. The patient had received a scythe wound on the outside of the leg, and the scythe passing across had wounded the posterior tibial artery, but did not penetrate the skin on the inside of the leg. Attempts were made to get hold of the vessel by enlarging the wound, but its depth was so great 1 that they were fruitless. An incision was then made along the inner edge of the shin- , bone, and the artery without difficulty secured.—J. F. S.] i 293. One end of each ligature should be cut off near to the knot, and I the other taken, by the shortest course, over the edge or the angle of the I wound. If tliis be done, no accidents, which can properly be ascribed to i the ligatures, ever happen. Ligatures separate, even on the largest arteries, ^ >n from fourteen to sixteen days ; on the smaller ones in a shorter space ^ Vor Anwenclung der Ligalur bci Schlagader-Wunden. Freiburg, 1836.