400 INFLAMMATION AND tory attack of the brain. If therefore they remain quiet during life, it may be pre- sumed that they assist in shortening it. A very remarkable instance is mentioned by Langlet (a) of a seven-drachm ball re- ' maining for eighteen months in the brain, enveloped in a sort of membranous covering ‘ i attached to the dura mater, and which contained pus.] ' A.—OP INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. 402. Injiammation of the Brain (Encephalitis) may occur in every in- jury of the head ; and its causes are, the operation of external violence, the splintering and indenting of bone, injury of the brain and its membranca, , violent separation of the dura mater from the skull, bruising of the t/i/y/o#, . collections of matter under the tendinous aponeurosis, and so on. Inflam- • mation arises either soon or later after the injury, and is severe, quick in j its course, or slow. Its appearances are various, according as the in- flammation proceeds from the dura mater or from the brain itself, and as » it passes from one structure to the other. Its usual termination, when it I does not disperse, is suppuration. 403. Acute Infiaynmation of the Dura Mater (Meningitis traumatica i acuta) appears most commonly from the third to the fifth day ; the patient t complains of severe, oppressive head-ache, which spreads from the injured 1 part over the whole head ; the warmth of the head is increased, the ptdse e small, compressed and rather hard ; the patient is heavy, difficult to rouse, his ideas become unconnected, quiet delirium comes on; and lastly, when the inflammation proceeds to suppuration, the patient falls into a continued state of stupefaction from which he cannot be easily roused : convulsions come on, continued shivering, irregular pulse, the pupils are wide and fixed, the breathing snoring and slow ; the sphincters are paralysed and the patient dies. On dissection the dura mater is found reddened, covered with exudation, separated from the inside of the skull, pus betw'een it and the bone, and at this part the dura mater often gangrenous. 404. Chronic Inflammation of the Dura Mater, which in injuries com- mences only after a long space of time, often after seven or fourteen days, often after a month, begins with headache, with mental and bodily de- pression, heaviness, unsteady walk, gastric symptoms, quick pulse, and in its further course a circumscribed painful swelling of the coverings of the skull commonly arises at the place of the injury, or if there be a wound it becomes pale, and secretes a thin sanious fluid, which sticks fast to the bandages. The pericranium, separates around the wound, and the inflam- mation soon runs into exudation of a yellowish ichorous purulent fluid. which collects either between the skull and the dura mater, or between the latter and the surface of the brain. (par. 386.) [Abtley Cooper mentions the case of a woman who had this chronic inflammatJOT of the dura mater, which terminated in suppuration and caries of the bone above it She had fallen upon her forehead against a chest of drawers, which produced a small wound and great contusion: but she got well, excepting some pain and a sense ol weight in the head, which continued to increase, became very severe, and at the end ol eight months she was attacked with epilepsy. She had then a purulent discharge from the nose and ears, which relieved her; but it ceased after three days, and she was as bad as ever. This occurred again and again. But she got worse, lost her appetite, had very distressiug pain in the head, especially at the part where the blow had lx‘en re ceived, which was increased by pressure. She slept but little, became veiy irritable, and was often convulsed on the slightest disturbance. At last she was quite comatose, ano (a) Bulletin do la Faculte dc Mcdccinc, No. 19.—1812.