677 ERETHISMUS MERCURIALIS. ducing those effects \rhieh we are in the habit of observing from syphilitic poisons in cases where no mercury has been used.” (pp. 731, 732.) , . To the simie etfect, also, Travers (ft) observes, m speaking of syphilitic cachexia “ Mercury, it may be said, has mucli to do "with the production of this cachexia; as an .aggravant, I do not deny this to be frequently the case, but not as an element, (p. 87.) (2) The Erethismits mercurialis, as it was named by John Pearson, dmers irom either of the two forms of mercurial affections mentioned by Chethus, as from it results no local manifestations, but merely disturbance, severe enough indeed, of the constitu- itional powers. Pearson’s attention appears to have been directed to this formidable (Complaint, by having “observed tliat in almost every year one, and sometimes two ; instances of sudden death occurred among the patients admitted into the Lock Hospital; that these accidents could not be traced to any evident cause, and that the subjects were I commonly men who had nearly, and sometimes entirely, completed their mercurial i course.” (p. l.O-t.) He obtained no satisfactory information by inquiring of his col- ,leagues as to the cause of these fatal cases; but after having given “ a constant and miuute attention to the operation of mercury on the constitution in general, as well as to its effects on the disease for which it was administered, and after some time had fclapsed, I ascertained,” says he, “ that these sinister events were to be ascribed to mer- cury acting as a poison on tlie system, quite unconnected with its agency as a remedy, i and that its deleterious qualities were neither in proportion to the inflammation of the mouth, nor to the actual quantity of the mineral absorbed into the body. The morbid ■condition of the system which supervenes on these occasions during a mercurial course, and which tends to a fatal issue, is a state which I have denominated JErethismus (b) ; and is characterized by great depression of strength, a sense of anxiety about the ■pracordia, irregular action of the heart, frequent sighing, trembling partial or uni- versal, a small, quick, and sometimes an intermitting pulse, occasional vomiting, a pale ■contracted countenance, a sense of coldness, but the tongue is seldom furred, nor are the vital or natural functions much disordered. [What then are to be considered the [Symptoms just mentioned j. f. s.] When these, or the greater part of these symptoms are present, a sudden and violent exertion of the animal power will sometimes prove fatal; for instance, walking hastily across the ward; rising up suddenly in the bed to take food or drink; or slightly struggling with some of their fellow patients, are among (the circumstances which have commonly preceded the sudden death of those alflicted ■with the mercurial erethismus.” (p. 15.5-57.) Bcrder says(c):—“This peculiar lirritation may arise from the administration of mercury in any form, and may occur during any period of a mercurial course, though most commonly at its commencement. -The exact circumstances which favour its occurrence in the particular individuals attacked have not hitherto been ascertained. While resident medical oflBcer of the Lock Hospital he has seen it produced by the inunction of a single drachm of mercurial ointment, and reproduced in the same individual after the discontinuance of the medi- cine for a whole mouth, by three frictions, each consisting of only one drachm of the ointment. It is remarkable, however, that in the greater number of instances, a full and adequate course of mercury has been afterwards borne without any recurrence of erethismus, hy the very persons who had suffered from it during the commencement of Ithe course.” (p. 105.) The seeming rarity of this disease, even “ in public institutions where the atmosphere of the wards was actually loaded with the remedy,” (mercury,) “ would,” as Bacot has very justly observed, “be a very imperfect mode of estimating the frequency of the •occurrence of^ erethismus; because although few die, very many persons have been affected by it in an inferior degree, without, in fact, being at all aware of the cause of their sufferings.” (p. 272.) To this I would, however, add, that this violent degree of constitutional disturbance is now rarely if ever seen even in hospitals, not only because Itheir syphilitic wards are no longer polluted by a mercurial atmosphere, but because Spgeons, using mercury in the treatment of syphilis, take especial care to suspend or give up its use, when the constitutional symptoms show that the mercury is beginning to do mischief, and if persisted in would excite the irritable condition above described 'The relation of Dr. Bateman’s own case by himself (tf) is probably the best account i ot this disease. Being the subject of amaurosis, he rubbed in a drachm of strong mer- I curial ointment nightly ; on the seventh day his gums were a little tender, and he had I -slight lever at night; on the eighth he was languid and feverish, and the gums reddish (n) A further Inquiry concerning Constitutional Irritation, &c. London, 1835. Hvo. S Principles of Surgery. London, 1788. 8vo. Forbss, Tweedie, and Conolly's Cyclo- pa;dia of Practical Medicine, vol. ii.—article, ErethsmusMercuriatis. (d) Notes of a Case of Mercurial Erethism : in Med.-Chir.Trans, vol. ix. p. 220.