152 MILK-KNOTS. the abscess are still thick. The almost immediate ease gained by relieving the tension of the fibrous covering of the breast gland is the first advantage obtained; the burrowing of pus is also prevented, and thereby a smaller cavity left, when emptied, to fall together and fill up by granulation ; and, most important of all, the sloughing of the skin almost to a certainty precluded. No squeezing or kneading of the breast to evacuate the pus, as often most improperly practised, is to be on any account resorted to, the agony thereW produced is extreme, the benefit gained nothing, for the aperture made should be suffi- ciently large to permit the free escape of the matter, which, having been allowed to flow as long as it will, a strip of lint, oiled, is to be introduced between the lips of the wound to prevent their union, and a light bread poultice, or warm fomenting flannels laid over the breast and repeatedly renewed. In the course of a few hours the lint should be with- drawn, and the wound generally remains sufficiently open to permit the continual flow of the pus. If, as not uufrequently happens, clots of adhesive matter, or dead cellular tissue, block up the opening so that the matter does not readily escape, they may be gently re- moved if they protrude between the lips of the wound. But, if not, and the pus be stiU retained, a grooved director should be very gently introduced into the cavity of the abscess, and by its canal the discharge will pass; but no pressure is on any account to be used. If a second, or even a third, abscess point, or if the same abscess point at a different part of the breast, these are severally to be opened as they occur, the prime object of the treat- ment being to remove every chance of sloughing and scar of the skin. Oftentimes the first discharge is extremely fetid, more particularly if the opening of the abscess have been delayed, or if it have been left to burst spontaneously, and in these cases the con- stitutional excitement is frequently very great, amounting even to delirium. The cha- racter of the suppuration, however, usually soon becomes healthy, and the febrile symptoms speedily subside. Chelius’s objections to passing tents or tubes into the fistulous pas- sages, which generally alone occur from leaving the abscess to burst of itself, are well founded; they never ought to be employed. Neither should Langenbeck’s plan of introducing ligatures be for a moment thought of; it is very bad practice. Fistulous passages almost invariably occur from the pus not having a convenient and complete discharge. Sometimes gentle, well-applied pressure along the course of the sinuous passage may be sufficient to produce inflammation and adhesion of its walls; but, if not, or if the patient cannot, as sometimes happens, bear the necessary pressure, then a probe should be introduced, and its extremity cut down upon through the skin at that part of the sinus which is most depending. Usually in a few days the old aperture heals, the pus is discharged by the new wound, and soon a cure is effected. As a general rule, injec- tions of these adventitious canals is not advisable; but, when the opening is at the most depending part, and they can be employed simply to wash out the canal and slightly irri- tate it, but without being retained, which will often create more inconvience than that to be got rid of, then they may be used with discretion. A mild solution of sulphate of zinc is, 1 believe, the best injection.—J. F. S.] 149. After previous inflammation there frequently remain the so-called Milk-knots, (Milchknoten, Germ., Ganglions laiteux, Fr.); or they appear at a shorter or longer period after the suppression of the secretion of the milk, or after weaning the child, in cases where the secretion of milk seemed to have entirely ceased. Their hardness varies, and is often cartilaginoid, though only containing milk; they may remain for a long while, and on superficial examination are easily mistaken for scirrhus. Their termination is in resolution, which is still possible after a long wliile, or in suppura- tion if they accidentally inflame. The remedies which effect their disper- sion are, gentle rubbing of the breast towards the nipple, sucking the nipple, softening poultices, especially oatmeal, linseed meal, cicuta, hyos- cyamus, saffron and oil, rubbing in lard and hartshorn. Some recommend belladonna internally. The dispersion is always accompanied with a flow of milk from the breast. Milk-knots which have not yielded to any remedies often subside at tlie next lying-in. 150. Inflammation of the breast, apart from suckling-time, has generally an insidious course. The pain in the neighbourhood is very slight; but tlie swelling of the breast is always very liard, and the inflammation has a marked disposition to hardening. Its causes are external injury, dyscracy,