418 EEMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURIES ON THE BRAIN. sufTiciently sensible to wipe her mouth, and to push away the hand of any one who touched her; but the fit continued for three hours. She was ordered twelve grains of scammony and calomel forthwith. During the night she had three shivering fits. March 30. From half-past 8, a.m. till 10, a.m. she was insensible, did not seem to feel when pinched, and moved only twice during this time. At 10 she spoke. At noon as the powder had not acted, an injection was given, which relieved the bowels, but not sufficiently, and therefore the powder was repeated. As she seemed low, eggs and arrow-root were ordered. During the night she had a slight shivering fit; and the following'day became very irritable. April 1. Has passed a good night, but has had five shivering fits; has taken little nourishment; continues exceedingly irritable. The pulse which has not altered much in the last few days, is small, quick, and weak. April 3. Lies in an unconscious state, breathing quickly, and refuses food. On the following day she was in the same condition, but frequently screamed out, and her ' breathing was sonorous. She continued sinking, and, April 5, at 2, p.m., she died. '' Upon examination a protrusion of the brain of the size of a walnut passed throu^ the trephine hole. In removing the calvaria two drachms of pus escaped, and when it was taken ort the dura mater was found deficient throughout the whole length, and on each side of the fissure, so that the gap in it was about four inches in length and one in width. Lymph had been deposited between the membranes, and in front of the gap there was one small cavity, bounded by adhesions, and containing about two drams of pus, and another between the gap and the inner edge of the right hemisphere, con- taining about a dram and a half, both causing irregular depressions of the brai* without any ulceration or morbid state of the arachnoid. The vessels of the pia mater w'ere much injected. Upon the posterior lobes of the cerebrum were some old ^adhe- sions, and also between both hemispheres in front. Upon the tentorium was some soft lymph, and much on the right side of the/aZx. In both ventricles there was scrun^- but most in the left, and the hind wall of the right was remarkably tough, resembling a f j piece of chamois leather soaked in water. At the bottom of the skull there about two | j-j ounces of serum and lymph. My friend Geeen has also mentioned to mS another case, at the operation for which he was present. Case.—A young man became insane after a blow upon the longitudinal sinus. No depression existed, but as the spot where the injury had been received was known it was ■ determined to try the effect of removing the bone; and he was accordingly trephined . by the elder Cune ; but no irregularity was found on the under surface of the tone. . In the course of the operation the longitudinal sinus was wounded, but the bleeding) ; was easily stopped by slight pressure. The insanity ceased so long as the wound re- - j mained unhealed; after which it returned. But ultimately the patient got quite well F The following extraordinary case occurred many years since in St. Thomas’s Hospi-: - f tal, of which the following brief account is given by Astley Cooper :— * Case.—A sailor was admitted in May, 1800, who had a depression near the upper t|- edge of the left parietal bone. He was in a great degree destitute of sensation and voluntary motion ; his pulse regular; his fingers continually and alternately closed and , ^ opened, nearly in corresponding frequency with his pulse. When hungry he groand his teeth; when thirsty sucked his lips; and when he wanted to void his stools or -f urine he moved about in his bed, but would sit on the chair to pass them. He was tre- ' phined by the elder Cline. During the operation he made a complaining noise; the , motions of his hands ceased; and the pupils of the eyes were directed forwards. Thiw J hours after he was found raised in bed, and when asked if he were in pain' he put his hand to the wound. The next day, though he still remained stupid, he could answer j “yes” or “ no.” He ultimately recovered, and when asked what he knew about the accident, he said, the last thing he remembered was being engaged in taking a prize in Jun^ 1799 ; but nothing further was ascertained, except that he had been first taken to Giip raltar, and then to Deptford from whence he had been brought to St. Thomas’s; wd during the whole period his mental faculties and his bodily powers were suspended. He got perfectly well.) 436. In cases of necessity every part of the skull may be trepann^, although we carefully avoid when we can l/ie frontal sinuses, the niiMle of the frontal, the scaly part of the temporal, the lower front angle of the parietal, and the crucial ridge of the occipital hone, and also the sutures. The choice of the part for tlie application of tlie trepan is in every case