SPINE-DISEASE. 284 an absolutely flat surface, but supported by cushions and pillows, so that the position in ■which he is placed may have no tendency to restore the spine to its original figure. In the management of these cases it is important that we should always bear in mind, that without undue interference on the part of the surgeon, the carious or ulcerated sur- face of the vertebra above will come in contact with that of the vertebra Ixilow; and that it is to the union which takes place between them under these circumstances at first by soft substance and afterwards by bony anchylosis, that we are to look for the patient’s recovery. In artificial straightening or elongating the incurvated spine, we necessarily disturb this curative process, and therefore all attempts to do so, whether by machinery or by laying the patient in the supine posture on a horizontal board, are to be scrupulously avoided (pp. 265, 66). (3) Abscesses connected with diseases of the spine so commonly terminate in psoas or lumbar abscess, that what has been already mentioned in relation to those disorders suflSciently applies here, and, therefore, does not need repetition.—J. F. S.] 262. In a similar way to that in the dorsal and lumbar vertebra does the diseased condition come on in the cervical vertebra, and most commonly be- tween the head and the first, or the first and second vertebra, and in the synchondrosis sacro-iliaca. In the former case the disease commences with a painful affection of the neck, which is increased at night, in damp weather, in swallowing large morsels, and even on deep inspiration (1), but may be diminished, or often apparently removed, by volatile rubbing and blistering. The uneasiness, however, soon returns; bending the head towards the shoulders is painful, and a drawing pain extends from tlie larynx into the nape, and even to the shoulder-blade. No cliange is to be perceived in the nape; but pressure with the finger at the union of the first and second ver- tebra produces severe pain. Swallowing and breathing are painful, the voice is hoarse, the pain is concentrated at the back of the head, and on every one of its movements is intolerable. The head at last drops on the shoulder opposite the disease, in which position the patient keeps it fixed. Symptoms of general illness in different degrees are present. After a short seeming improvement the pain returns more severely, and the patient has tlie sensation of the head being enclosed with a cord. It sinks at last in the opposite direction, and the patient endeavours to keep in the same posture on account of the severe pain. Noise in the ears, deafness, giddiness, con- vulsions, partial paralysis, especially of the upper limbs, loss of voice, all the symptoms of hectic fever occur, and death often suddenly takes place. Fistulous openings in the neck are rare (2). Generally there is not any external diseased indication in the neck, except that the patient cannot bear the least pressure. [(1) Brodie says this pain “is not unfrequently mistaken for the muscular pains and stiffness connected with what is commonly called a stiffness from cold. The pain gradu- ally increases; and, according to my experience, is more liable to be severe than when the seat of the disease is in the lower part of the spine. * * * At an early period the patient frequently complains of pains in the arms and shoulders. After some time these pains subside, but they are followed by complete paralysis of the upper extremities; while the muscles which derive their nervous influence from the spinal cord below the neck, remain subject to the will. In a still more advanced stage of the disease, the paralysis extends to the muscles of the trunk, and of the lower extremities. Then there are pains in the abdomen, which becomes distended and tympanitic; the bowels being, at the same time, obstinately costive. In all cases there is pain in the occiput and temples; which is, however, most severe, when the disease is situated in the two or three superior vertebra:.” (p. 255.) Astley Cooper says, that “ when the disease is in the neck, the heail is the only part of the body, except the vital organs, -which retains its power; vo- lition is lost in all the parts of the body below the seat of tlie disease, and the patient is reduced to the most abject state of helplessness.’’ (p. 458.) (2) Abscess connected with diseased cervical vertebra’” Brodie observes. “usually presents itself among the muscles on the side of the neck. Occasionally it makes its w.ay forward, forming a tumour, and afterwards breaking, in the pharynx. I have seen one