(n) American .Tournal, 1837. (i) Above cit<Hl,p. 75. (c) .Above cited, p. •137 GI2 ULCERS; Attempts have been made to sustain an artificial retention of the faeces, for six or eight days, and even longer, so that the union might be undisturbed. Dieffekbach gives, for two days prior to the operation, little but nourishing food, then a laxative and on the day of operation an opium pill to produce and to keep up costivenesg Lr ' six or eight days, after which he gives castor oil. But with all care and employmeBt of remedies for facilitating the discharge of faecal matter after long costiveness, their rj discharge is very difficult, accompanied with severe effort, and may destroy the scarcely «. effected union. Thus in Saucerotte’s case, in which the union failed, the stitches tore r| on the eleventh day on account of the violent effort in going to stool, and in which a a' second operation, in which a tight suture had cut through the m. sphincter ani, succeeded, LI care having been taken for the easy relief of the bowels. Roux employed in one case costiveness, which the patient had learnt by refraining from food, and by the use of ^ opium, so perfectly to effect, (for the purpose of improving the unpleasantness of her r situation,) that the motions were retained till the twenty-second day, and on account of their hardness required to be helped forward by pressure of the finger from the < vagina; he recommends, however, on the contrary, when not habitual costiveuess is x to be relied on, to render the excrements fluid, and he proposes this as a principal point ; in the after treatment. [In Davidson’s case, the bowels were constipated by opium, the urine drawn off f night and morning, and the diet was confined to small quantities of gruel and hard c biscuit. The ligatures were removed on the seventh day, the union being complete. • After nine or ten days the urine was voided naturally, and on the seventeenth the bowels > were relieved. At the end of six or seven weeks she went about as usual.] Horner (a) recommends, after the union is perfected, to cut through the m. sphincter '• ani, so that the sutures should not be tom out in going to stool. Old perineal tears rarely heal by quick union; on the contrary, experience shows that .; such are more liable, by suppuration and ulceration, to a change, whereby indeed its ;> connexion cannot be again naturally produced, but a certain continuity of skin may be • attained, similar to the formation of a mucous membrane, which, from thepressare v and rubbing in walking, becomes gradually insensible, and thus the patient’s conditi- on is much improved. In all cases in which, where the long continuance of the peri- neal tear gives less hope of the quick union, or where it is not effected, this mode of skinning over should be attempted, in which the callous edges are removed, the in- flammation properly excited by digestive remedies and by lunar caustic; but especially ■ by keeping from the wound the faeces and urine, and, if the granulations will not harden, to endeavour to effect this by the use of lead or zinc. Schreger (h). Nevermann’s proposition (c) may be mentioned, to persons fearing the knife, to strew * upon the skinned edges unslaked lime, or strips of linen powdered with lime, which, after sufficient operation, is to be washed off, and the patient kept perfectly still with her thighs together. B.—OLD SOLUTIONS OF CONTINUITY WHICH SUPPURATE. I.—OF ULCERS. First Chapter.—OF ULCERS IN GENERAL. Astruc, J., Traite des Tumeurs et des Ulceres, &c. Paris, 17.'59-68. 2 vols. 12mo. Bei.l, B., a Treatise on the Theory and Management of Ulcers, etc., 1778. Edin- burgh, 8vo. Hebenstreit’s Zusiitze zu Bell’s Abhandlungen von Geschwiiren. Leipz., 1793. Weber’s allgemeiue Helkologie, oder nosologisch-therapeutische Darstellung dcr Geschwiire. Berlin, 1792. 8vo. Bertrandi, a., Opere Anatomiche e Cerusiche. Torino, 1786-96. H ENKE, Fragmente Uber die Pathogenie und Therapie der Geschwiire; in Horn s Archiv., vol. ii. p. 1.