555 UPPER-ARM. the slioukler of the sound side; the arm is then to be kept in this position by circular turns, which are to act especially on the elbow. By this posi- tion the lower end of the fracture is approaclied to the upper, a.nd the side of the chest serves as a splint. The symptoms of bruising and inflam- mation, must be properly attended to. [There is not the least necessity for the constrained position which Richerand re- commends : the metliod directed by Chelitjs is most convenient, most agreeable to the patient, and serves every purpose.—J. F. S.] 647. Fracture of the body of the Arm-bone is distinguished as occurring above the insertion of the m. deltoides, in the middle of the arm, or at its lower end. In the first case, the upper end of the fracture always inclines inwanls, and the lower outwards; in the second, the upper end inclines outwards, and the lower inwards, and if the fracture be oblique, also upwards ; in the third instance, if the fracture occur where the bone is surrounded by the m. triceps and brachialis, without these muscles being attached to it, displacement may happen in every direction ; but in frac- ture near the joint, it can be only forwards or backwards. The diagnosis of the fracture is generally easy. Fracture at the lower end of the arm- bone is alone liable to be mistaken for dislocation of the elbow. The olechranon is drawn upwards and backwards by the action of the m. triceps, is raised from half an inch to an inch and a half, and above it is a hollow ; the upper end of the fracture projects forwards, forms a large uneven projection, the diameter of the arm near the elbow is much increased from before to behind ; the fore-arm is slightly bent, its perfect bending or straightening is impossible, and every attempt thereto very painful. The Surgeon has however a guide in that, by extension the deformity, as in dislocation, readily subsides, but recurs when the extension is left off; by moving the ends of the fracture, crepitation is felt, (which, however, is often wanting,) and especially, that by pressure with the fingers replacement is possible; and the distance of the olechranon from the condyles of the arm-bone, which is natural in dislocation, is here as great again (a). This fracture is much more frequent in children than in adults. 648. In general, fracture of the upper-arm is not an important injury. But an unnatural joint remains after its fracture in the middle, more fre- quently than in all other fractures, and when at the lower end of the bone there is commonly stiffness at the elbow-joint. 649. The setting is to be performed in the same way as in fracture of the neck {par. 646.) Slight extension is sufficient to put the fracture into place. The fore-arm being then bent at an obtuse angle, both it and the upper-arm are to be swathed in a moistened roller, which is to make three successive turns on the seat of fracture; four narrow splints are then to be applied on the upper-arm, which are to be fixed with the descending turns of the same bandage. The fore-arm is then to be supported in a sling, over which some circular turns are to be made around the arm and chest, for the purpose of fixing the former as firmly as possible. If one or other end of the fracture be disposed to turn outwards or inwards, a pad, of which the thicker end is to be directed upwards or downwards, may be put between the arm and the trunk. The fracture at the lower end of the upper-arm is to be treated in the same way, the arm put in a bent position, both it and the upper-arm swathed with a circular bandage, and two pasteboard splints, notched at their (a) Dupuytren, Lecons Orales, vol. iii. p. 394.