145 ENLARGED TONSILS. to their removal by tlie knife; but their destruction by caustic is to be rejected. Only in not very great swelling of tlie tonsils, can their dimi- nution be effected by the repeated application of lunar caustic sufficiently to produce a superficial slough. The removal of the liardened tonsils has been performed from the earliest time by cutting, by tearing out, by tying, and by destroying with caustic. Celsus advised taking hold of the tonsil with a hook and cutting off the hardened part with a knife. In this manner the operation has been performed with little variation. According to Louis, the cut should be made from below upwards ; according to Richter, from above downwards, and tlie imperfectly divided piece is to be removed with scissors; according to Moscati, the cuts are to be made in various ways, by splitting the tonsil from above downwards and sideways, by introducing charpie, by removing it piece-meal, and by cauterizing the surface of the woimd with nitrate of silver. For holding the tonsil, a single or double hook is employed, Caque’s hook (a), Muzeux’s hook forceps (6), Wasserfuhr’s forceps with thick blunt hooks, so that it may be more easily removed in case of vomiting. For the cutting, a narrow, button- ended, curved or straight scalpel, special knives of Paulus A<:gineta, of Caque, of Ben. Bell, of Boter, Dessault’s kiotome ; the scissors of Solingen, Percy, Levret ; the instrument of RnncERi (c) and of J. Cloquet (<f), with two branches, which cross, and each of which has an edge at its extremity. Tearing out the tonsils was performed by Celsus with the fingers; by Fabricius ab Aquapendente with the hook or forceps. Tying the tonsils, mentioned so early as by Guillemeau (e), was performed by Sharp (/_) with silver wire or catgut; by Cheselden {g) the loop was applied with the &ger and fastened with an eyed probe; swellings with a broader base were tied on me side with a double thread introduced by a needle having an eye near the point • by Bra^cH (A) with a silver wire by means of Levret’s double cylinder; by Siebold (i) with a loop pushed on upon a pair of forceps, the ligature having been slipped on to them by an assistant; Bell introduced through the nose a loop which by means of the hngerwasramed over the tonsil and tied with a polypus-cylinder introduced through ’ ^y.^HEjALiER (A), a double thread was drawn through the base of the tonsil after CnraELDENS method and tied with a ring-shaped knot closer. Hard also in- vei^d a tymg mstrument (Z) for the same purpose. of the tonsil with red hot iron or with caustic, after the manner of Seve- rinus and VViESEMAN. Objected to the excision of the tonsils, especially in children, on account of the hemorrhage; neither was he favourable to tearing them forceps, nor to destroying them with caustic, but preferred Ches^den’s consisting of a tonsil probe, needle, iron, and speculum oris, or a piece of cork Jjt L f^ thread can be readily carried roSnd with th^ thr^d nT ^ requisite to thrust the needle, armed with a double and the other black to prevent confusion, through the base from without Xn ti*The needle appears behind die tonfil, the threaram tL withdrawn, and the corresponding threads tied then thrust forward, cuts it off as it tmvprcoc ti. ^ the knife being staphylotome (which he has much simnlifiedUo adapted Thorbern’s •I.Ui.g knife,. „bli,„eu,li„6 edge,like the ^mmenl Bonon., vol. vii. 1791. , ® >’Acad. ,le Chir., vol. v. p. 480 ^ Archives Generales de Medecine, May 1833, /J Ara^^;-,,.^P' ^ ’ '='>• Vi. y\Phuiiiev’s Chirurg. Kupfertaf VOl'^T* '''• voU. p!Yo"“" Sciences, 1827-8, I,