273 KNEE-DISEASES. “ When the cartilages of the knee are ulcerated,” says Brodie, “ there is pain in the iffected joint; at first slight, and only occasional, and. in the early stages of the disease, t is completely relieved by remaining in a state of rest for a few days, but it returns as oou us the patient resumes the exercise of the limb. ^ By degrees the pain becomes onstant, and very severe, particularly at night, when it disturbs the patient by con- iuually rousing him from sleep. The pain is referred principally to the inside of the lead of the tibia, but sometimes a slighter degree of pain extends down the whole of hat bone. The pain is aggravated by motion, so that the patient keeps the limb con- tantly in one position, and generally half bent; and he never attempts to support the veight of the body on the foot of this side.” It is distinguished from inflammation of he synovial “ membrane in this, that tlie pain in the former is slight in the beginning lid gradually becomes very intense, which is the very reverse of what happens in the alter.” From most other diseases of this joint it differs, in that “the pain in the first nstance is unattended by any evident swelling, which comes on never in less than four 'r five weeks, and often not until several months have elapsed from the commencement f the disease.” (pp. 167, 68.) The swelling Brodie describes to “arise from a slight egree of inflammation having taken place in the cellular membrane external to the oint, in consequence of the disease within it. The swelling is usually trifling, appear- ng greater than it really is, in consequence of the wasting of the muscles of the limb, t has the form of the articulating ends of the bones, that is, the natural form of the aint. No fluctuation is perceptible, as where the synovial membrane is inflamed, nor 5 there the peculiar elasticity which exists where the synovial membrane has uuder- 'One a morbid alteration of structure.” (p. 170.) When ulceration of the cartilages has akeii place, striking the heel so as to jar the knee, or rubbing the ends of the bones ogether, though but slightly, causes severe pain, and if there be much destruction of artilage, a grating sensation is conveyed along the leg to the surgeon’s hand. “ The rogress of the ulceration of the cartilages,” Brodie observes, “ varies, with respect to ime, in different cases; but it is generally tedious. In one case, where violent pain had xisted in the knee, with little or no swelling, for two years and a-half previous to am- putation, I had,” says he, “ an opportunity of examining the diseased joint, and found he cartilages destroyed for only a small extent; a drachm and a-half of pus in the arti- ular cavity, and no morbid appearance of the soft parts, with the exception of a very light inflammation which had been induced in the synovial membrane, and the effusion f a minute quantity of coagulable lymph into the cellular texture on its external sur- ice.” (pp. 174, 75.) Since the observations referring to ulceration of cartilage, from pressure of adveuti- lous membrane, have passed through the press, I have had the opportunity of examining nth the microscope, both the adventitious membrane and cartilage, in the case of a boy ged ten years, whose knee having been affected with disease for four years, was removed ly the wish of his friends on the 17th of this month, (May, 1845.) In this case I saw listinctly the vascular loops in the adventitious membrane, already quoted (p. 232) from Ioodsir’s paper; and also the peculiar degeneration in the cartilage which my friend Iaixey has described as follows:— “ A vertical section through the joint on one side of the patella exposed adventitious lembnineous structures, extending from the synovial membrane towards the interior of he joint, and lying against the articular cartilage, which was excavated in such a aanner as to have the exact form of the membrane in contact with it. These structures vere of different forms and degrees of thickness in different parts of the joint, and ilways continuous with the synovial membrane. t “ In some parts of the joint, the articular cartilage of the femur, and that of the op- iosite part of the tibia, were completely destroyed, and the denuded osseous surfaces of nese bones, connected by a newly formed fibrous structure, which was sufficiently long I allow of considerable motion. The free surface of the articular cartilage was, in ome parts, covered by a thin layer of membrane, which admitted easily of being de- tched, in other parts excavated, as before observed; the opposite surface was either ►ompletely detached, or only loosely connected with the bone. Some abscesses com- • lumcated with the joint. 'i “ The microscopic examination of the membranous productions showed that they were i^ular, the vessels forming loops towards the cartilage,'fihxch I have observed in ^er cases that have been better injected. But what seems most interestine is that preceded by its fatty degeneracy, diniinishi^ in de- tv"* *** surface to the one connected with the bone. ° first perceptible by the division of the nuclei of the cartilaee cells [ vnr particles of oil. These particles increase as the ^nuclei » VOL, I, T