548 FRACTURES OF bone, tlie inner portion sticks out and crosses the outer part. The con- trary Iiappens if the fracture be far from the breast-bone, which depends > on the finger-like attachment of the m. triangularis sterni. The diagno^ is easy, on account of the separation of the ends of the fracture. The < setting is not difficult, and succeeds best if at the moment of inspiration \ an attempt be made to press the ends of the fracture into their place, A broad breast-band (according to Malgaigne, an English truss) should be < put on sufficiently tight, which cannot, however, always completely prevent the displacement of the ends of the fracture, though it fi.xes them in place; in consequence the pain, which depends on the movements of the ' fractured ends, is diminished ; and in this way the union is favoured, which is always perfected by a bony ring more or less surrounding the ends of the • fracture. X.—OF FRACTURES OF THE SHOULDER-BLADE. (^Fractura Scapula, Lat.; Bruch des Schulterblaltes, Germ.; Fracture de V Omoplate, Fr.) 630. The Fractures of the Shoulder-blade are those of the acromion, of the nech, of the coracoid process, of the body, and of the lower angle, u These are always consequent on very severe violence to which the bone it is subjected ; the accompanying accidental bruising therewith connected <: is generally more dangerous than the fracture itself. [Chelios overrates the violence necessary for the production of these fractures, -which, h excepting that of the lower angle, is rarely produced hy a direct blow, and usually by a fall on the elbow, which drives the head of the arm-hone upwards. Nor have 1 evert seen any very serious bruising of the soft parts attending these accidents.—J. F. S.] 631. The acromion is most frequently broken, and generally at its fiasco and horizontally. The outer portion is dragged down by the weight of the arm, and the shoulder inclined downwards and somewhat inwards: a depression is felt at the seat of fracture, which subsides if the arm be somewhat separated from the trunk, and raised parallel to its long axis;- and when in this position the arm is moved, there is distinct crepitation (1). At the moment of the accident the patient feels a dropping down of the arm, and has but little power to raise it. For the purpose of bringing the broken ends into proper place, and -1 there retaining them, a conical pad should be placed between the ann and j the trunk, with its thick base below the elbow, the aiTn pressed upwardsi I and confined in that position with a bandage, which should be carried, in shape of a figure of QO around both shoulders and the elbow of the injured side. The fore-arm is to be supported in a sling. Should this apparatus not serve the purpose, as for example, in women with large, bosoms, the arm must be supported on a pillow with a strap, or the patient should be kept in bed, and the arm put at a right angle with the trunk. [(1) To these signs of a broken acromion may be added the jutting of the fractured end of the spine of the bone, and the flattened form which the shoulder assumes instead ol its natural rounded shape, by which the appearance of dislocation into the arm-pit k produced, and with which it is often confounded, but is easily distinguished from, by i raising the elbow, when the roundness of the shoulder is restored and the appearance o) | dislocation ceases.—J. F. S.] 632. Fracture of the neck of the Shoulder-blade is rare, and only con- i sequent on very great violence; it is therefore always accompanied witt > considerable bruising. The lower end of the fracture is so much drawT ■ down that the shoulder has an appearance similar to that of dislocation i|