410 EFFECTS OF CONCUSSION ON THE BRAIN, U changed. Extravasation and concussion may occur togetlier at the onsets or extravasation may accompany concussion. *’ [It is often very difficult to distinguish between drunkenness, and either eoncussion or eompression; espeeial care should therefore always be taken to ascertain as far possible the condition of the patient previous to the aeeident, lest he should be lost bv too light consideration of his symptoms. ^ In persons of drunken habits delirium tremens may eome on after coneussion, as well ’ as after any other accident. 1 have seen one example of this kind, but believe it to be rare. The treatment will require the closest attention, and the administration of opium _ IS necessary as in other cases of the same disease.—J. F. S.] ■ 422. Inflammation of the brain may be connected with concussion, and 1 then the symptoms of oppressed sensation and motion may be accompanied | with those of irritation. The pulse becomes fuller, tlie patient more j restless, appears wild, is delirious, convulsions come on, respiration is j slow and snoring, and subsequently symptoms of pressure on the brain ensue. 423. The changes produced on the brain by concussion are various, and may be divided into primary and consecutive. They consist either in a sudden depression of the activity of the brain and nerves, in which after' death no trace of any mechanical injury, frequently only a sinking togetlier I of the brain, which does not completely fill the cavity of the skull, is found; : or in tearing of the vessels, or even of the brain itself, and inflammatory. { congestion (1). In concussion the vessels of the brain are always more or less debilitated, so that, when the first symptoms of concussion have passedj J by, they cannot withstand the subsequent infiux of the blood, and in this | way gorging with blood and its effusion through the relaxed walls of the f vessels takes place. In concussion of the brain there are, therefore, various conditions to be remembered, namely, torjmr and weakness of the iiervoui^ t system, irritation and inflammation, extravasation, and not unfrequently [ concurrent affection of the liver. Dupuytren (a) distinguishes, in reference to these various changes of the brain, be- tween Commotion and Contusion; the former he considers to depend on sudden depres- sion of the activity of the brain and nerves, in which no trace of any injury can be dis- cerned ; the latter he holds as a similar change in the brain to that which occurs in bruises, viz., bruising, tearing, and extravasation of blood. The patient recovers from | the symptoms; in the next few days inflammatory symptoms occur and cause death, as | has been already mentioned in unfavourable inflammation of the brain, {par. 404-406.) I In tearing of the substance of the brain the symptoms should, according to Wap- H THER (6), come on at once and without remission, but continue till the setting in of en- cephalitis without increasing or diminishing. Only in a single case has 'V\^aether no- ticed a perfect intermission of the symptoms. The most constant symptoms are loss of consciousness, the deepest coma without possibility of wakening, convulsions, vomiting, subsequently palsy comes on, probably at first as a symptom of inflammation and perspira- tion. This statement does not concur with that of otlaers. Astley Cooper (c) relates a case wherein, from tearing of the substance of the brain, no other symptom of brain affection except loss of speech occurred, and this came on after three days. [“ 'With respect to the state of the brain under concussion, when the injury has not beoi i j excessively severe, it seems that the symptoms are merely the effect of a disturliance ■ j of the natural course of the blood through the brain. A fit of vomiting, by forcing the ! > blood through the brain, will sometimes almost immediately restore the functions of the ■ ■ mind and body. It seldom happens that this state of the brain destroys; but when it : n, does, nothing is found upon the examination which will account for the symptoms. A * 1 is therefore an alteration of functions, but not a disorganization. But when the con- - ■ cussion is very violent it is attended with lesion of the brain, with slight laceration of ill it accompanied with slight extravasation.”—A. Cooper, (p. 262.)] I 424. The causes of concussion are eitlier shaking of tlie whole body (1)> -I (n) Lerons Oralcs de Clinique Chirurj;icalc,p. 503. (5) Above cited, p. <0. (c) Above cited, p. 263- ■