53 SOFTENING—MORTIFICATION. • 1 lessened, the circulation seems to proceed but imperfectly, because the '.nerves are completely enveloped in the plastic mass which connects the ■several parts, and the more minute vessels are closed : hence the tempera- :ture is lower, often sensibly so to the patient himself. Sometimes not the least inconvenience arises from the hardening; but it may run into ■inflammation, ulceration, and cancer (a). In every part inflammation may run into hardening; but especially in :long-continued insidious inflammations; in organs which possess a low jjidegree of vitality, in glands, and those organs in which the very numerous iramifications of vessels are surrounded with dense cellular tissue, in persons of atrabiliary constitution, who have had much mental anxiety, have been ssubject to scrofula or other diseases which depend upon unnatural mingling bf the juices. 21. The transition of Inflammation into Softening {ErweicJiung, Germ.) oroduces changes directly contrary to those caused by hardening, viz., iiminished cohesion and consistence—liquescence. It occurs only in long continued dyscratic and cachectic inflammations ; it is always connected at the onset with collections of serous, not plastic, matter in the parenchyma of the part, which is therefore sometimes loosened up and thickened; Dr it consists in actual deliquescence and dissolution of the parts, probably consequent on diminished or changed nervous influence. It may, to a cer- tain extent, be considered as the intermediate condition between ulceration :nd mortification. The softer and looser the texture of an organ, so much he more readily does softening take place, though it also occurs in hard >rgans; for example, in the bones : childhood is most subject to it. In many wellings softening precedes and accompanies their giving way. 22. Mortification ( Gangrcena, Sphacelus, Lat.; Brand, Germ.; Gan- frene, Sphac'ele, Fr.) is the passage of inflammation into partial death, nd the mortified part is subject to the general chemical laws. We usually listinguish with the name of mortification two conditions, viz., the hot lilortfication, {Gangrcena, heissen Brand, Germ.; Gangrene chaude ou } isphyxie desparties, Fr.,) in which the living power is not perfectly extin- uished, and in which it may be restored to its natural action, (here there I but a certain degree of inflammation,) and the cold Mortification, (^Spha- elm, kalten Brand, Germ.; Gangrene froide, ou Sphac'ele, Fr.,) in which lie part is actually dead. 1 I [The division here employed by Chelius is that proposed by Dr. John Thomson. .-CRAVERS objects to the terms mortification and sphacelus on the following ground:—“ I I) not,” says he, “ employ the term ‘ mortification ’ because it is not technically explicit, ■id has been vaguely and indiscriminately used. Nor shall I use the term ‘ sphacelus,’ bcause gangrene is a sufficient synonyme, if the term gangrenous inflammation be ac- pted, which presents the stages of recoverable and irrecoverable, threatened anddevi- lized texture. A gangrened part is never restored. By the arrest of gangrenous in- fimmation, the gangrene may be circumscribed, and, by the supervention of other pro- isses, the dead may be cast off, and the living part repaired with more or less loss of ibstance. The special use of the term sphacelus has been to designate a state of utter kath, in which the part becomes subject to chemical changes, as if severed from the tidy, and such meaning 1 affix to the substantive term ‘ gangrene.’ ” (p. 208.) Hence it ill be observed that Travers’s gan^enous inflammation, and his gangrene, are syno- 'mous with CuELius’s hot mortification, and with his cold mortification.—J. F. S.J - 23. Mortification truly consists in the extinction of vascular and nervous ' tivity, in consequence of which partial death ensues. This transition fl) Wenzel, Ueber die Induration und das Geschwur in indurirtcn Theilon. 8vo. Mainz, 1815.