351 WASPS, SCORPIONS, ETC. ■which an ichorous exudation is continually produced, and has some'what^ the appear- ance of an inflamed soft -^rart. This often continues for months, and resists all kinds of treatment, till change of air is made, soon after ■which it commonly subsides ■without any further assistance. Another consequence, after every other symptom has ^bsided and all trace of the original injury has disappeared, is, a creeping erythema, ginning about tlie injured part, and then travelling about the hand and arm. I have ^quently seen it run up one side of the finger to its tip, and down again to the knuckle, then pass to the next finger, up and down it and on again to the next, and having made the circuit of all the fingers, repeat its course. Positive pain in these cases there is none, but itching is plentiful and the annoyance scarcely creditable. Simple spirit wash, or camphorated spirit wash, or lead wash, or grease of any kind are alike useless. And the only remedy I have seen at all efficacious is change of air, but even this often for a long Avhile fails of getting rid of this troublesome companion. —J. F. S.] 353. The stings of bees and wasps are the slightest kinds of poisoned wounds. An acrid fluid is introduced with the sting into the wound, which usually produces very severe pain, and speedily much swelling. The early application of cold water, or campliorated vinegar, averts or diminishes these symptoms. If the pain continue, bathing with warm oil, and narcotics, may be employed. If the sting be in the wound it must be withdrawn. 1 n ( [The stings of bees and wasps sometimes produce very serious consequences. Dr. Gibson mentions (a) a lady sixty-nine years of age, who died in fifteen minutes after receiving the sting of a yellow wasp, whilst engaged in drying apples. And he also states, that “ occasionally death has followed from swallowing a wasp or bee, in conse- quence of the gullet being wounded by the sting of the animal, while passing to the stomach. In this way a young woman in Jersey, U. S., lost her life, a bee having been enclosed in a piece of honeycomb which she swallowed. La'wkence refers (6) to the case “ of a gentleman in France, who was walking in his garden, in his morning-gown, with his breast open. A large beehive was upset, and he ran to put it right again ; the bees fixed upon him and stung him about the throat and chest; he immediately ran into the house, and the persons around him endeavoured to liberate him from the in- sects as soon as they could, but he said he felt himself sinking or dying. The action of the heart became very much enfeebled, the pulse simk, the breathing interrupted, anxiety, agitation, and alarm arose, and he died very speedily, in fact in about ten minutes.” (p. 622). Scorpion Sting.—The following is the account of one of these accidents ^ven hj- Dr. Mosely _(c) :—Mrs. P. at Kingston in Jamaica, in January, 1781, was stung by a scorpion in the foot, above the little toe. The part became instantly red and painful, and soon after li-vid. The pain increased to great severity. Some' rum was applied to the wound, on which the pain immediately left the foot, and passed np to the groin with great agony. The pain still passed upwards, and diffused itself about the pit of the stomach, neck and throat, attended with tremors, cold sweats, and languors. As the pain passed the abdomen it occasioned a violent purging and fainting, which ceased on its advancing higher. I was called to her and gave her the following medicine : R sal. succin. 9ij. camph. gr. xij. cinnab. antim. gr. x. conf. card. q. s. utjiant holi sex, omni bora sumend. cumcocM. qvat. mist. seq. viz., aq. menth. Jvij., etix.pareg. Z\].,syr. croci 3iv. misce; a few doses of which removed every symptom. She had been extremely ill for thirty-six hours.” (p. 28.) Allan (d) says that “ the wound caused by the scorpion was always followed by a violent and extensive inflammation, considerable swelling, and great pain ; but I never observed any violent constitutional symptoms succeed to the local.” (p. 370.) A few years ago a man stung by a scorpion was ad- mitted into the London Hospital: some inflammation and swelling of the hand and arm ensued, with a good deal of nervous depression; but my friend Curling tells me it soon subsided and he did well. Kirby and Spence (e), however, say that “ the sting of cer- 1*21? common in South America, causes fevers, numbness in various parts of the body, tumours in the tongue and dimness of sight, which symptoms last from twenty- tour to forty-eight hours. The only means of saving the lives of our soldiers who Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. 1 liiladelphia. 2nd Edit., 1827. 8vo. (A) lA-ctures on Surgery. (c) A Treatisi! on Tropicil Diseases, &c.,3rd Edit. Is)nilon, 179.',. (d) System of Pathological and Operative Sur- gery, vol.i. (e) Introduction to Entomology, vol. i.3rd EtU- tion. Ix>ndon, 1818. 8vo.