445 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. wliich it can be inferred are very equivocal. Tliey excite constant irrita- tion, difficult respiration, pain at the wounded part, even though the most severe antiphlogistic treatment has been long continued; oi although the symptoms had diminished, a fresh accession, copious suppuration, and so on, may occur. The circumstances of the accident must be carefully reviewed, in order to determine on the presence and position of the foreign body, which is often most decidedly possible by the introduction of an elastic or metallic sound, for the purpose, either by suitable enlarge- ment, or by a fresh opening in the interspace of the ribs corresponding to its position, when it can be done, to extract it. Ihe longer suppuration is kept up by a foreign body in the cavity of the chest so much more difficult is its extraction, because the interspace is much diminished by the fallino- too'ether of the ribs. Larrey (a) has in one such case cut out the upper edge of the lower rib with the lenticular, as deeply as needful, for the purpose of extracting the ball, and did not wound the intercostal artery. Bullets may penetrate the chest, run round the lungs, and pass out nearly opposite their point of entrance (1). Instances have occurred in which bullets have lain in the cavity of the chest for a long while, without producing inconvenience; in such cases they have been enclosed in a covering of coagulable lymph, as in a capsule (2). [(1) See Hennen’s Observations on this point (par. 480, vote 2.) (2) In one case the ball remained in the substance of the lung for twenty years, the patient continuing in good health, and no symptoms occurring to indicate its position. In another, the ball rolled about in the cavity on every motion of the body (6).J 484. In penetrating wounds of the chest bleeding may occur from the arteria intercostalis, the arteria mammaria interna, from the lungs, or from the great vessels of the chest. In large and direct wounds the blood flows out freely; if the wound be narrow, if it form a long and, perhaps, curved canal, the blood empties itself into some one space internally, and the quantity poured out is relative to the size of the wounded vessel, and the space in which the effusion has taken place. 485. Under such collection of blood in the cavity of the chest the face is pale, the pulse small and quick, the countenance shrinks, there is singing in the ears, cold sweats over the whole body, exceedingly difficult breath- ing, danger of suffocation ; that side of the chest in which is the extravasa- tion is more full and moves less during respiration ; the patient breathes best on his back, with the upper part of his body raised; suffocation threatens if he lie on the sound side. As the extravasation increases, the symptoms become more severe, and the patient dies suffocated. 486. The symptoms of extravasation of blood in the chest are very different, and often very equivocal. If the extravasation be slight, or if it have been slow in its production; if the lung be adherent with the pleura to a great extent; if the individual be less sensible on account of the loss of blood; if previous disease of the chest exist; if spasmodic symptoms accompany the injury, then the diagnosis is extremely difficult. 487. The most certain and determinate signs of extravasation of blood in the chest are, the continued symptoms of an internal bleeding, diffi- cult, quick and short breathing, with spitting of blood in wounds of the lungs, in which inspiration becomes easier and expiration more difficult, and in sleep threatens suffocation; constant anxiety in a greater or less degree ; difficulty or utter incapability of lying on the sound side ; a dull (rt) Mcmoires de Chirurgic Militaire, vol. iv. ffc) Manoetus,Bibliotheca Chirurgica. Geneva, 1721. folio.