TREATMENT OF TONSILLAR ABSCESS. 141 locul ftpplicution to tliG infiflniGcl ftiuccSj is the stG8.ni of hot ■\v8tcr ^ hoDinsr for resolution of thG inflammation, or whether we desire to pro- ° n . A* _ ♦ T'Vin Tnncf nnnvmnPTif these are made witli the palate-lancet or with a common bistoury, the edge of which is guarded nearly to the point, or with the pJiarynffOtome. ^ The patient is to be placed so that the light may fall into his mouth, which is kept open by thrusting a piece of cork between the molar teeth ; the tongue is pressed down with a spatula, and shallow cuts are made with the instru- ment just mentioned into tlie swollen tonsils. The bleeding is to be pro- moted by soothing luke-warm gargles. [In scarifying the tonsils, there is danger of wounding the carotid artery, or some branch, which will continue bleeding and cause serious alarm. Watson mentions in bis Lectures a case of fatal bleeding from wound of the internal carotid artery:—“ Only a very few years ago, in Ireland, it was struck by a surgeon while scarifying a gentle- man’s tonsil, and he died in three minutes.” In another case, which occurred under Watson’s own care in 1838, in which the tonsil glands, during convalescence from scarlet fever, having become so enlarged as to impede breathing considerably, “ the surgeon in attendance punctured the tonsils. The next day a good deal of haemorrhage took place; and this recurred several times, to a considerable and even alarming amount. When the clots that formed were wiped away with a sponge, the blood could be seen welling out in a little stream, with a pulsating motion, from a small incision in the left tonsil. The haemorrhage was ultimately, after much trouble and anxiety, arrested, by applying a pencil of lunar caustic freely within the bleeding orifice.” (p. 792.) I believe, in such a case, the use of the actual cautery would be preferable to any other remedy, and should certainly employ it if opportunity occurred.—J. F. S.] 129. When the inflammation subsides, but the swelling still continues, astringent remedies, as the liquor ammonice acetatis, hydrochlorate of am- monia, sage, vinegar, and so on, are to be added gradually to the gargles, by the proper employment of which the disposition of the parts to chronic inflammation is prevented. 130. When an abscess forms in the tonsil, which can be distinguished by the above-noticed signs (par. 126), by fluctuation on touching the tonsil with the finger, and often by the pus itself showing through, and it does not break of itself under the use of softening gargles, great danger of suffo- cation, or burrowing of the pus, is to be feared ; and it must then be opened with a yarded bistoury, or the pharyngotome, used as in scarification of the tonsils. Irritation of the throat, and straining by vomiting, often effect the bursting of the abscess. After the pus has been discharged, soothing gargles with honey are to be frequently used, and commonly produce a speedy cure. In rare cases the abscess penetrates externally beneath the jaw, and then must be treated as common abscess.