SOFT ANCHYLOSIS. 244 •witliout annoyance. _At the latter end of the following month (August) he slij)pe<l on a stone, and fell on his side, at the same time bending the previously fixed knee. At the moment he had little pain ; but when he went to bed the pain came on, and has recurred ' nightly ever since. Little swelling followed, but he could no longer l)ear on the limb without pain, which was also excited when pressure was made on tlie knee-cap. On first getting up in the morning, the leg shakes very much, and causes great pain in the knee; but both subside in a few minutes, and he has not any more pain till he again goes to bed, when it recurs, and much disturbs his sleep. His general health is good. The knee-joint is now but little enlarged, and there does not appear to be any fulnea*f from fluid in the joint. The leg is partially bent, the condyles of the thigh projecting much over the head of the shin-bone, and the knee-cap seems nearly fixed on the front ; of the outer condyle. The whole knee is generally tender, but especially upon the inner side. When the bones are pressed together he suffers pain, and a slight grating is felt i Amputation was performed, and he recovered. j Upon examination, the whole exterior of the joint was found covered with much fat especially in the ham, and on the inside of the tip of the knee-cap was a small abscesijt containing a tea-spoonful of thick greenish-yellow pus. Within, the knee-cap was found adhering by bone to the outer condyle of the thigh-bone, and the latter was connected by fibrous tissue with the outer articular surface on the head of the shin-bone; but,the greater portion of the hind part of the condyle was absorbed. The cartilage upon the inner condyle was partially destroyed, and ^e surface of the bone exposed; upon the corresponding part of the head of the shin-bone the cartilage was almost entirely de- stroyed, and the bone itself ulcerating. Whether the fibrous anchylosis be the first step to bony anchylosis, I am not pre- • pared to say; but the following instance in ■which the limb was amputated between i thirty and forty years after the motion of the knee had been destroyed, for necrosis in i the condyle, produced by a comparatively recent injury, would lead to the belief tliat i the two diseases were distinct. Case 1.—S. D., aged fifty years, a sickly woman, came under my care in October, , 1839. When ten years old she fell down an area on her right knee, which immediately r swelled and became painful; suppuration ensued, and pus having been discharged on i the outside of the thigh and knee, after a time she got comparatively well, being able » to tread on the entire sole of the foot; but she has never since had free motion of her r knee, though capable of bending it to some extent. Twenty-three years since suppura- - tion of the joint again occurred shortly before one of her confinements, and from that t time a sinus on the fore and upper part of the inner condyle has continued discharging. Three years ago she received a blow with a heavy boot, just above the knee-joint, which a suppurated and burst, an inch or two above and on the outside of the base of the knee- * cap. From this time her health failed, and, though after lying in bed for nine mouths j she was able to go about her usual occupations, yet during the last year the pain in ■ the knee again became so severe that she has been constantly confined to her bed. She * has now one sinus near the outer hamstring, a little above the knee-joint, and other i three about the inner condyle, from which there is a free discharge. The condyles s project forwards, as if the ligaments of the knee had given way, and partial dislocation i had taken place. Motion of the knee-joint does not cause much pain, but she has fre- quent dull aching pain just above the knee, both day and night, which occasionally } extends up to the hip, and is brought on whenever attempts are made to put the foot to « the ground. Her health is much broken; her appetite bad, and she gets but little sleep. p( Under these circumstances, amputation above the knee was performed, and she did ■well, b Upon examination, by making a vertical section of the bones, the recent disease was h ascertained to consist in a sequestrum as large as the top of the thumb in the expanded << part of the thigh-bone, which was enlarged just above its articular surface; the front of'i the shell of the bone was here absorbed, forming an aperture as big as a sixpence, <t which communicated with the wound above the knee-cap, and with the lower wound ;i on the inner condyle; the sequestrum, which was quite loose in the cancellated strnc- o ture of the bone, might have been easily removed by dilating the former wound. _ Tte > popliteal space of the thigh-bone was quite bared of its periosteum, and communicated i with the upper two wounds in the inner condyle. Of the primary disease there were ■ the following traces:—The joint surfaces of the thigh and shin-bone connected by fibrous ? structure ; the front of the head of the latter destroyed, and in its place a patch of fibrous •' matter; the bottom of the condyles destroyed, and in sevenfl parts the remaining arn- cular surface deprived of its cartilage ; iKith condyles were partially disli>c,ated forwan'* upon the head of the shin-bone. The semilunar cartilage rcmaine«l on the outer, but not on the inner side. The kncc-cap was not anehylosed.