CASES REQUIRING AMPUTATION, 344 [(1) IIennen says:—“ If, liowever, the bone is splintered to the very joint, or so close as to excite our fears as to future consequences, we operate beyond it on the upper part of the limb. If the head of the humerus itself is injured, or the shaft splintered, with ' much destruction of the soft parts, or if the head of the bone alone is left in the glenoid cavity, the rest being carried off, we forthwith take it out of the socket; an operation as simple, if properly planned, as any in surgery; and one which, on all occasions where the bone is injured, is infinitely preferable to amputation lower down. It not unfre- quently occurs, that the arm is carried completely out of the socket; and, in this case very little more remains for the surgeon than to pass a ligature round the arteries, even though they do not bleed, as often happens, and to cut short the leash of nerves, which in this case usually hangs far out of the wound, to bring the lips towards each other by adhesive straps, and to support them by proper comprc*ss and bandage.” (pp. 38, 9.) (2) Hknnen mentions “ a species of the comminuted compound Gun-shot Fracture, which, although at first of but little consequence in appearance, is of most serious im- portance in its results. This occurs where a musket-ball has perforated a cylindrical bone without totally destroying its continuity, and consequently without producing any distortion of the limb, or other symptoms which characterize a fracture. The founda- tion of infinite mischief is, however, laid; for not only is the shaft of the bone injured, but fragments are carried into and lodged in the medullary canal; and if the limb has been in an oblique position, or the ball has taken an oblique course, these fragments are often driven in to a great distance, and fairly impacted in its cavity, there keeping up a constant and uncontrolable irritation, and destroying both the medulla and its mem- brane, together with the cancelli, which naturally support it. I have repeatedly seen this separated portion of bone lying in the medullary canal, at the distance of from four lines to an inch and a half from the circular hole formed by the passage of the ball, re- taining its shape, its colour, its solidity, while all the surrounding osseous parts were diseased, and formed a spongy discoloured mass of bony granulations around it, the periosteum, for some way, both above and below the wound, being entirely separated from the bone. To attempt to save such a limb is imposing a task upon the powers of nature, which, nineteen times in twenty, she is unable to effect, even under the most favourable circumstances. If a ball has passed through without carrying in any frag- ments of bone, a case which sometimes happens in the thigh, when the man is standing | erect, and the ball has struck the bone fairly and directly, the case is more favourable, . than when the wound is oblique as in the arm, which is so often thrown into a variety of postures; and consequently, where there is a greater chance that the channel of the • ball should be formed obliquely, and the spicular fragments forced up into the me- • dullary cavity. But even of this favourable variety I have seen only two cases cured, , both of persons struck on the centre of the femur, the wound admitting a finger to be • 1 passed into the bony ring or perforation, and there to find a clear, unembarrassed, and 11 comparatively simple loss of parts. By far the most frequent result is the loss of the *l limb sooner or later, after a very tedious and distressing train of symptoms, exhausting :l to the patient and baffling every endeavour of his attendants.” (pp. 133, 34.) (3) “ Balls often pass through or along the bones of the hand or foot, and, except in ji very severe cases attended with great loss of substance, amputation,” says Hensejj “is » not immediately necessary. The strength of the fasciae covering those parts, and the f number of minute bones composing them, will, however, render extensive openings pe- - culiarly requisite. These bones never suffer from necrosis, nor do they ever become re- generated as far as my experience goes; but if the aid of an appropriate supporting splint, .( assisted by proper bandages, is had recourse to, their loss is soon supplied by a new forma- tion of soft parts, approaching to a cartilaginous nature ; and by the approximation of the sound bones to each other. However desirable it may be to save a hand or foot, yet, : in severe lacerations, the frequency of tetanic affections should at once lead us to adopt immediate amputation. Gun-shot injuries of the joint of the great toe are always ex- tremely troublesome, and accompanied with excruciating paiu, often giving rise to t severe nervous affections, and often terminating in tetanus. Amputation of the toe will therefore be the safest mode of treatment, and it should be a general rule^to amputate all lacerated toes and fingers, in preference to attempting their preservation.” (pp. 154, 55.)J • 349. The earlier in these cases amputation is had recourse, to the more ■' successful is tlie result; but in very severe general shock, or in complete numbing from cold, the wounded person must be first revived with stimu- lants. When tlie secondary symptoms Iiave once set in, before amputation i is performed, it must be delayed, till after proper treatment the patient