293 GRANULATION. the parts on -which they are formed; for, -when it has not a tendency to skin, the granu- lations do not so readily contract, and, therefore, contracting and skinmg are probably effects of one cause.” (p. 483.) A principal use of the contraction of granulations is, that it avoids tlie foriiiation of much new skin, an effect very evident in all sores which are healed, especially in sound parts. * * * After the whole is skmned, we find that the substance, ■whicli is the remains of the granulations on which the new skm is foimed, still continues to contract, till hardly anything more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part in comparison with the first formed granulations, and it in time loses most of its apparent vessels, becomes white and ligamentous. For-we observe, that all newly healed sores are redder than common skin, but in time they be- come much whiter.” (p. 485.) _ -'ll- The following is the very interesting and important history of the process ot falling up a gaping wound, as described by Travers :—“ In a wound with loss of substance, which offers the most complete example of organization, the fibrine is very gradually deposited, little by little, at its margin, preserving at all points an uniform line of approxi- mation to the centre. The margin is elevated, rounded, and opake at its base; its sali- ent edge is thin, sharp, and transparent. This presents no appearance of vascularity during the process, but the circumjacent vessels are observed to multiply and extend their branches of communication or anastomosis. These processes go pari passu towards the healing of the breach ; the fibrine becoming fuller and more opalre where it adjoins the original texture, and in the same proportion encroaching upon the void space. The wound preserving its figure, continues to diminish as the surrounding parts become organised by the production of transparent capillaries from the nearest vessels, in forks and arches of communication one with another, parallel for the most part to the margin of the wound. These vessels are visible in fine strim before circulation can be detected. A single globule is first observed to enter, and this is followed by more, which have only an oscillatory motion for many hours, a flux and reflux derived from the impulse of the circulation in the parent capillaries, which see-saw movement continues gradually gaining in the direction of the nearest neighbouring vessel, into which at length the pioneer globules enter in single file. The next stage is the abrupt and rapid occasional transit of a globule, or of several isolated globules in succession, through the new channels, just as drops of rain course one another down a window-pane in the same track. “The conclusion of the process is a regular uninterrupted transition of a file of globules, by which a cross branch of communication is established. This is the simplest example, but the complications of anastomosis proceed in a similar manner. Instead of the meeting of parent vessels, one new vessel encounters another, and they join and divaricate at an angle; or one, meeting another current in an opposite direction, is reflected at an angle so acute as to be refluent upon itself to the vessel from which it emanated, or to contiguous ramusculi from the same parent; and thus arches and circles forming a mesh of anastomosis are established. “ The nascent blood-vessels appear in the first instance destitute of colour, by reason of the paucity of the blood-globules which they convey. When perfected, enlarged, and multiplied, they become the nourishing vessels, arteries, and veins of the new texture, the motion of the blood being, as they are arteries or veins, conformable to that of the original texture. The appearances of vessels striking directly across the newly deposited lymph to meet their opposites—of vessels seemingly engrooved in the lymph by a train of blood globules pioneering their track—of insular specks and zones in the fibrinous deposifa which generate and throw off pencils of vessels for anastomosis with each other and with those proceeding from the margin—are doubtless presented at different stages of the process; but, being the result of occasional and partial observations, have been inaccurately dated and explained. The whole business of organization is of and from the margin of the wound; and it is upon the margin, and its gradually developed orga- nization and encroachment, that the healing action is first and last seen, i. e., until its obliteration by the cicatrix. There is no such thing as isolated or independent vascu- larization, although appearances exist that convey this impression, as will be afterwards shown. The centripetal or convergent arrangement is the presiding and consummating genius of the operation ; but the inherent contractility of the fibrine, and the primary institution of a fuller and freer anastomosis of the nearest marginal vessels, modify the process of organization, and render the centre, as it is the most distant point, the last vestige of its completion. The loop, fork, or arch, consists of an artena and vena comites, ’ so that the continuity of circulation keeps pace with the extension of vascu- larization. It is the opening out of the angle of reflection which presents these varieties or arrangement at different periods, and explains the purpose of its existence and tormity.” (p. 7G-9.) . uni-