644 KICORD’S EXPERIMENTS ON INOCULATION OF 817. The pus of the ulcer is the special veliicle of the venereal con- tagion, the proximate nature of which is unknown, but by its absorption the general Venereal Disease or Pox {Syphilis universalis, Lues Venerea Lat.; Lutseuche, Germ. ; V'erole, Fr.) is produced, which is manifested by various signs. f John Hunter s assertion that the matter produced in gonorrhoea and chancre is of the same kind, and that the only difference is that the one proceeds from a a secreting and the other from a non-secreting surface, having been already discussed, (pp. 1 G.37 G4,) and clearly refuted by the observations of Benjamin Bell, Hernandez, Ricord, and others, does not require further discussion, as it is now universally held that they are two distinct and independent diseases.—J. f. s. Various experiments have been made as to the effects of inoculating matter from pa- tients labouring under gonorrhoea, or chancre, from sores on the genitals, supposed to be syphilitic, and from secondary sores on other parts of the body. Some of these were instituted by Hunter with a view to determine the identity of the poison of gonorrhoea and chancre, which he considered he proved, though this opinion is now generally held to be erroneous; and also to ascertain whether the matter from primary and secondary sores was the same. But we are indebted to Ricord for having proposed inoculation for the purpose of distinguishing syphilitic sores, whether primary or secondary, from doubtful sores, the situation and character of which might at first lead to the notion of their syphilitic nature, although in reality quite free from that disorder. The following are the very interesting and important observations he has made on this subject:— “ All the natural or morbid secretions of individuals reputed to be syphilitic have been examined by means of inoculation, and one single form has furnished constant re- sults, and that form is, the primitive ulcer, otherwise called chancre. The chancre, which is to the constitutional pox what the bite of the mad dog is to hydrophobia, does not produce always a specific pus, but at one certain epoch of its existence, and it is cer- tainly from not having appreciated this so simple fact, that the results of inoculation have been contested or appeared doubtful. It is very evident that the primitive syplii- litic ulcer cannot be the same at all its periods, and that it cannot arrive at scarring, if it do not at least pass to the state of a simple ulcer, by the destruction of the cause which tended to keep it up; but we must not require from these different phases, similar characters, corresponding results ; it is in the period of progress or of the statu quo of the ulceration, whilst there is no attempt to scar, that the chancre secretes the venereal poison. “ The specific nature of the chancre is neither grounded in the organ actually ailing, nor in the vitality or functions and sympathetic reactions of this organ, nor yet in re- lation wilh the greater or less degree of inflammation which may accompany the ulcer- ation. Its seat has so little influence on the special nature of the chancre, that that disease cannot be regarded, without error, as peculiar to the generative organs. In re- ality, there is no part of the skin which cannot become its seat; no spot, in the requisite condition, and can be voluntarily fixed on, is safe from it; developed on other regions, than the generative organs, it still preserves all its characters without any exception. Thus the chancre of the tip of the finger, of the thigh, of the tongue, of the foot, (if it be not modified,) furnishes pus, inoculable, and capable of producing another chancre without the participation of the generative organs; whilst no other alteration of these organs is capable of re-producing a chancre, whatever may be its form, its extent, and the deoiree of the accompanying inflammation. * • * This fact then is established by experiment, aiid may the mere speculations of the closet dispute it ? The chancre, whatever its seat, is the consequence of a specific pus, which it alone secretes, and which, as has been so well named trueleven, peculiar ferment, (veritable levain, ferment special,) reproduces an identical disease wherever it is fitly deposited. “ But this particular leven, which has no specific action but when it determines an ulce^ ation, is produced only during that period of the chancre, which then almost makes, if the expression be permitted, an acoddental virulent organ. In reality, as we have seen, the chancre has two very distinct phases; the first, to which the name still belongs, is that of growing or stationary ulceration, it is that which furnishes tlie peculiar pus; the second is, that of reparation, which only takes place by its passing to the state of simple ulceration, permitting the scarring or transfonnation on the spot, and furnishing no more specific virulent secretion. It may be imagined how important the distinction betwi'cn these two periods of chancre is; for without it every thing is confusion, and the same ulceration which inoculated a few days before no longer giving contagious pus. We must