537 (6) Above cited. (n) On nislocations. FEACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. i dorsal, from one to three weeks ; and in that of the loins, in two, four, or six mouths, or he may live for two or three years, as mentioned by Cooper and Brodie. _ Sometimes if a patient live long after fracture of the spine, a false joint is tonned, of which there is a remarkable example in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England ; the arch of the third lumbar vertebra has been broken^, and the separated portion having dropped, has formed a false joint with the margin of the arch ot the tom’th lumbar. Unfortunately there is not any history to the preparation. It not unire- quently happens that if the patient with fractured spine live many months, the injury is partially repaired by ossification, producing a broad band or splint from the edge of one to that of the other vertebra across the front of the intervertebral substance, similar to that not unfreqiiently observed in old people. An instance of this kind is in St. Thomas s Museum, in which, the patient having lived five months and nine days, ossification had tlius taken place between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, the former of which, with its arch fractured, having been displaced forwards with fracture of the front of the latter. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons there is also a preparation in which the twelfth dorsal had been completely smashed, but the pieces had united and there is a splint in front with great angular curvature forwards. Its history is unknown. Sometimes without any fracture or displacement, after a severe blow,_ and without any immediate symptoms of concussion or compression of the cord, to distinguish which from each other, we have no means, except in the quick subsidence of those in the former, and the absence of distortion of the spine, the patient is seized with severe pain in his back, and becomes paralytic. Such a case is described by Astley Cooper (a), and on “ opening the spinal sheath milky fluid was found within it just above the cauda equina ; and higher than this, for the space of three inches, the spinal marrow was ul- cerated to a considerable depth, and was in the softened state which the brain assumes when it is rendered semifluid by putrefaction.” (p 561.) Brodie doubts (b) that the process of softening and dissolution of the spinal cord after concussion is the result of inflammation, as held by some writers, and observes, that “ there is a manifest resemblance between the softening of the spinal cord, which follows mechanical injury, and that softening of the brain and spinal cord which takes place from internal causes, and which was first particularly described by M. Rostan under the name of RammoUissement du Cerveau.” (p. 126.) The whole of this paper of Brodie’s is well worth a careful perusal.—J. F. S.] 614. The diagnosis in fracture of the body of a vertebra is always doubtful, because on account of its deep situation, it cannot be thoroughly examined, and because the just mentioned symptoms of palsy and so on may be produced merely by severe violence without fracture. 615. If one or more spinous processes be broken and displaced, they may be replaced by the fingers; a compress is to be applied on each side, which should be fastened with a broad bandage (a). In fracture of the bodies of the vertebrae, the treatment can only effect the removal of the dangerous symptoms, as every attempt to set the frac- ture, even in well determined diagnosis, is to be considered most highly dangerous (5). Repeated general and local blood-lettings, proportionate to the age and constitution of the patient, dispersing bathings, and so on, are to be employed to diminish the inflammation. The urine collected in the bladder should be frequently drawn off with the catheter, because it soon decomposes and acts injuriously on the walls of the bladder. Volatile inflictions are to be made on the distended belly as well as on the palsied limbs, to which infrictions of tincture of cantharides may be added. If with the fracture there be injury of the soft parts, as shot wounds and so on, we must endeavour to remove the loose splinters of bone by incision. If the patient improve, he must be supported with strengthening remedies, and with the use of strengthening baths for the improvement of his health. If after previous injury of the spine symptoms of chronic inflam- mation continue, continued issues in the neighbourhood of the spine are the most proper remedies.