385 SKULL. separated from the bone, there are collections of ichorous fluid, tlie dura ^ - _ - - _ _7 ^ +|-»CkT«/!k mater is spoiled; frequently also between the dura and pia mater there are collections of pus. [The not very painful swelling which occurs on the bruised part of the scalp, is held by Pott to be the diagnostic mark of pus, either forming or formed between the aura fnaler and the skull. He says :—“ If the symptoms of pressure, such as stupiditj^ loss of sense, voluntary motion, &c., appear some few days after the head has sunered. injury from external mischief, they do most probably imply an effusion of a. fluid some- where. This effusion may be in the substance of the brain, in its ventricles, between :ts membranes, or on the surface of the dura mater ; and which of these is the real situation of such extravasation is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them being attended with iny peculiar mark or sign that can be depended upon as pointing it out precisely; but •he inflammation of the dura mater and the formation of matter between it and the ikull, in consequence of contusion, is generally indicated and preceded by one which I lave hardly ever known to Jail; I mean a puffy, circumscribed, indolent tumor of the icalp, and a spontaneous separation of the pericranium from the skull under such tumor. These appearances therefore following a smart blow on the head, and attended with anguor, pain, restlessness, watching, quick pulse, headache, and slight, irregular shiver- ngs, do almost infallibly indicate an inflamed dura mater, and pus either forming or brmed between it and the cranium. By detachment of the pericranium, I do not aean every separation of it from the bone which it should cover: it may be and often i cut, torn, or scraped off without any such consequence; but these separations are iolent, whereas that which I mean is spontaneous, and is produced by the destruction f those vessels by which it was connected with the skull, and by which the communica- ion between it and the internal part was carried on; and therefore it is to be observed (lat it is not the mere removal of that membrane which causes the bad symptoms, but . is the inflammation of the dura mater, of which inflammation this spontaneous seces- lou of the pericranium is an almost certain indication.” (p. 52-5.0.) Dease does not agree with Pott in attributing almost entirely to the inflammation nd suppuration of the dura mater the many threatening symptoms resulting from “ the ijury which the different series of vessels that connect the pericranium and dura mater 1 the skull, sustain in wounds of the head where the cranium has suffered either contu- on or division of its external table. # * * I should look upon it as a very fortunate rcumstance in the patient’s favour,” says he, “ did the mischief extend no farther, as would put it more immediately in the surgeon’s power to obviate the danger by having xK)urse to the trepan, an operation which we would by no means find so ineffectual in .‘lieving the patient as we but too often experience it to be when this is not the case, am very far from thinking that the inflammation or suppuration of any part of the dura ater, let it be ever so circumscribed, is not an alarming circumstance, and which of self is capable of destroying the patient; but from what I have seen it is ever in the irgeon’s power, by the application of the trepan, to rescue his patient from this danger, •ovided no other part of more importance be engaged.” (pp. 46, 47.) He then pro- leds to show that from “ the injury of the outward vessels ” there is no such great fear ■ affection of the dura mater, of its detachment and suppuration, by reference to the suits of opening “ fontenels ('issues') by the actual cautery over the sutures, and that