568 FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE of a cart on his right hip. “ He was wholly unable to move the limb, and suffered severe pain when it was moved by another person. The thigh was bent to a right angle with the pelvis, and could not by any means be extended. Abduction of the thigh was difficult. The limb was everted, at first slightly, afterwards in a greater de- gree. The soft parts around the hip-joint were considerably swollen. There was no shortening of the limb, but rather the appearance of a lengthening of it in the erect posture, probably from the obliquity in the position of the pelvis. No crepitus could be felt in any movement of the limb.” (p. 250.) It was thought from the patient’s age not to be a fracture of the neck of the bone; but under the supposition of it t>eing a dislocation into the foramen ovale, the pulleys were applied and forcible extension ma^ Two months after he was admitted a patient into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and at the end of the subsequent month he died of small-pox. On examination, “ the capsule of the hip-joint was found entire, but a little thickened. The ligamentum teres was uninjured. A line of fracture extended obliquely through the neck of the femur, and entirely within the capsule. The neck of the bone was shortened, and its head, in con- sequence, approximated to the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces were in the closest apposition, and finally united nearly in their whole extent by bone. There was an irregular deposition of bone upon the neck of the femur, beneath its synovial and pe- riosteal covering, along the line of the fracture.” (p. 258.) This preparation is in the Museum at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, where I have had the opportunity of examiniiy it, and in addition to the above account I may add that nearly half of the head of the bone projects free beyond the hind surface of the neck and forms a well-marked inner boundary to the trochanteric pit. In this Museum there is another example of bony union, in which the broken head having dropped, its upper part is driven into the neck, which is less shortened than usual, and the lower third of the head descends free below the neck. In the same Collection there is another preparation in which the heads of both thigh- bones are considered to have been fractured and united by ligament, and there certainty is a distinct and narrow line apparently of ligamentous character which marks the pre- sumed place of fracture in each; but I must confess I have some doubts of these having been fractures, for the appearances so nearly tally in the two that I am inclined rather to think they must be the remains of the epiphysal junction, of which they occupy the precise place.^—J. F. S.] 673. Setting a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is easy in so far as extension only of the limb is requisite to restore its natural length; we cannot, however, be thereby satisfied of the close contact of the two broken ends. Fixing them in close contact till their consolidation, is in no fracture more difficult. 674. The setting is to be performed in the following mannerOne assistant fixes the pefow, placing his hands on the spinous processes of both hip-bones; another makes extension at the foot, and brings the limb at the same time into its natural position. The Surgeon assists the rotation of the limb, and placed on the outside of the thigh, raises the trochanter, in order to lessen its pressure on the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh bone, and to press the lower end of the bone against the upper. The arrangement of the bed in fractures of the lower extremities requires partienkr attention. The bed should not be more than three feet wide, and should not be pn> Tided at the foot with a high board. Instead of feather bed a firm mattress should te used ; and for the support of the head a single pillow. Under the patient should be placed a folded sheet for the purpose of carefully raising him in the necessa^ mov^ ments. To the cieling of the room a rope should be fixed, at the end of hanging opposite the patient’s chest, a cross handle should be attached, by which be may take hold. The patient-lifter proposed by Leydig (a) is the most convenient tor lifting a patient from one bed to another, or to another place. 675. Fixing the broken ends has been attempted by various batula^ and machines, in which, (without employing the earlier practice of fastening (a) Dcr Krankenlieber, seine Anwendung und iinteren Gliedinnssen; with two copper-r'****" V'ortheill voriuglichbei Behnndlungder Bnicneder Maim, ISCd. -Ho.