371 APPEAIiANCES AFTER DEATH. l•cicatrix, at times attended with itching, but in general resembling the a^ing of rheu- jinatism, which, iu some cases, shoots to some distance along the limb anected, and in .•others degenerates into a species of torpor in the part itself. * ^ fhe scar becomes red, iswollen, sometimes livid, and in one case (n) was surrounded by papulary eruption, ana m the course of a short time it opens and discharges a peculiar ichor. ^ Meanwhile flying fconvulsive pains are felt in various parts of the body. As the disease proceeds, the ■patient, according to Dr. Marcf.t, complains of pains shooting from the wound to the idieart, and in general both he and Babington, with Professor Callisen, have observed dn different cases that these recrudescent pains seem always to follow the course of the ■nerves, and do certainly never inflame or irritate the lymphatic vessels and glands in > the vicinity, though passing in a pai'allel course towards the trunk. * * It is seldom ■ that they occur longer than six days before the disease becomes marked, and the more ligeneral term of their appearance seems to be two or three days before hydrophobia su- tpervenes.” The spasmodic stage presents the hydrophobic phenomena. P “ The whole of the symptoms above expressed may establish themselves in a few hours after their commencement, though in general they can scarcely be said to become so fully developed before the second day, and death most usually happens in this and the third according to IlAaiii.TON’s table, although in a considerable number it has taken place after twenty, twenty-five, or thirty-six hours, and in others it does not happen before the fifth day, and in some few instances not before the eighth or ninth day.” (p. 491-95.)] 363. On examination of the corpse, the nerves and their sheaths, in the aeighbourliood of the wound, have been found inflamed, and their medullary- substance discoloured (b), inflammation of the neck, of the epiglottis, of ;he ganglions of the nerves of the neck, redness of the nervus vagus, sym- •yathicus, and •phrenicus; further, inflammation of the membranes of the arain, and watery extra^•asation between them ; the mass of the brain drier ;han usual, and its vessels loaded with black blood; frequently, inflamma- ion of the heart, adhesion of it to the jyericardiwii; the heart empty or oadedwith coagulated blood ; the lungs inflamed, adherent to the pleura, )ften dry ; gangTenous inflammation in the stomach and other intestines. he salivary glands are not diseased. The corpse speedily becomes putrid ; le muscles are dusky red, even when much blood has been withdrawn, and le blood has a peculiar fluidity, by means of which it passes into the most ninute vessels. In many cases, however, nothing unnatural is observed (c). he scar of the bite often appears swelling with coagulated blood, especi- lly when during life it has been much inflamed. Lochek (d) has found in all mad dogs, upon the spleen, vesicles of different size and arm, containing a pale yellowish lymphatic fluid, and covering the entire surface, to- :ether with traces of inflammation in the spleen. [In the examination of Elliotson’s patient it appeared that “ the medulla oblongata ras rather softer than usual, and so were the corpora striata and the thalami nervorum plicorum, but the middle lobes were likewise softened. The phrenic nerve and the ■ar yagum appeared perfectly healthy, as did the whole of the spinal marrow. The ardiac half of the stomach was redder than usual, but not redder than we continually it after affections of the respiratory organs. The oesophagus was quite healthy. The irj-nx and adjoining parts, and the whole of the lun^, were in a state of congestion, nd the corpse was that of one who died after struggling. The hands were clenched, nd the lips turgid and blue. The heart was strongly contracted. The spasmodic ttacks which took place were quite sufficient to cause the congestion observed in these arts, though, were they not so, the congestion would not explain the peculiar symptoms ” p. 292.)] 364. As to tlie proximate cause of hydrophobia, it is probable that it onsists in an active, quick-running inflammation of the nerves, specially f the ganglionic system, and thereby the diseased disturbance of the animal (a) Minburgh Medical Journal. 1807. (6j Lhekahdini ; in Abliandlungen fur prak- P*‘^7. Metzger (Auten- liETii), Del^tenus pra*tervisa nervorum lustra- 'one in sectione bydrophoborum. Tubingee, 1802. Archiv. ftir Medic. Erfabruntr. 1821, Jan. Feb., p.i. (rf) Didsertatio exhibens magnum Lienis in hydrophobia momentum. Goettingu*. 2 B 2