721 TREATMENT. V > ddlllClllilCS V.-1 VJOOiiJKy v »•*«*•« q Mirallel, but most commonly separating from each other at an angle more or less acute ; .ud they are lost by curving more and more in the circumvolutions^ of the intestinal anal. On examining the space between the two orifices, a projection, more or less listinctly angular is perceived, and more or less near the entrance of the funnel^ neutioned. This projection, the so-called spur (eperon) already perceived and pointed ■lit by SAvi.\RDand Morand, results from the application and union, at an acute angle, f the corresponding walls of the two parts of the intestine which abut in artificial nus. * * * After a time this spur does not divide the bottom of the funnel into which be two ends of the intestine open, into two equal parts. Continually pressed on by le matters which the upper end brings down, this fold yields to their pressure, and is radually carried towards the lower end, upon which it.advances more and more, till at 1st it covere its orifice with a sort of valve, which hermetically closes its entrance, and enders its discovery very difficult. Towards the intestinal cavity the spur has con- cantly a crescentic form, of which the angles directed from the concavity towards the onvexity of the new curve of the intestine, are confounded with it, and gradually lost ither in the walls of the organ or on the edges of the deepest part of the wound of the elly. On the abdominal surface it is seen doubled, and the two equal halves of which consists separate and receive the mesenterij in their interval.” (p. 202—5.) “ Thus,” says iAWKENCE, “ the two portions of the bowel lie near together, but are not adherent; ley are separated by the ridge called by Scarpa promontorio, and by the French oeron. If we introduce a finger into each orifice, and bring the fingers together, they re separated merely by the sides of the two portions of intestine. When it is de- jribed that they are kept apart by an intervening partition, we must remember that lere is nothing but the intervening tunics. We might pass an instrument from one ad of the bowel into the other, and thus cause a direct communication between them y perforating their coats ; but as the bowels are simply contiguous without adhering, e should make a double wound into the cavity of the abdomen.” (p. 383.)] 1919. The treatment of fascular fistula or artificial anus, consists at rst merely in attention to the proper discharge of the stools, in cover- ig the opening with a wad of lint, and the removal of all pressure •om it; good nourishing food, and easy of digestion, should be given, and •equent clysters and gentle purgatives. If there be externally several stulous passages, they nmst be slit up, the irritation and callosity re- lOved by poulticing and cleanliness of the dressings, and hard, tough, ry callosities, which will not disperse, are to be removed with the knife! f the opening contract too quickly, or the stools cannot escape sufficiently, le opening must be enlarged with sponge-tent or the knife, which, owever, is less safe, as the adhesions of the intestine may be easily ivided. A sufficiently large pad should be put into the opening to revent it narrowing; and its introduction is also the only mode of pre- enting the protrusion of the bowel. If this occur, attemnts rmisf ha I ucu, aiiu avuiu an exertion, jin Strangulated protrusion, the stricture must ; carefully divided at tlie root of the protruded part. If under this treat- ent the excrements be gradually discharged by the natural passage, and continue for some time, the opening mav be allowed fn clnsp o-T-nfinoii,r