I EYEBROWS AND EYELIDS. thought he would die, I left him to dress other wounded. After twenty minutes he revived, and said he was much better, and I then dressed him. We were in the snow, , and as he was very cold the whole of his head was well wrapped up in charpie and band- ;■ ages. He set off to Warsaw with another wounded soldier; went partly on foot, partly on horseback, or in a cart, from barn to barn, and often from wood to wood, and reached Warsaw in six days. Three months after I saw him in hospftal, peirectly recovered. He had lost his sight on the right side ; the eye and lid had, however, pre- I served their form and mobility, but the iris remained much dilated ^and iminovabl^ He mentions another case in which “ a ball passed through a soldier s head, from the ! top of the base of the right parietal bone, and which he extracted from the zygomatic pit on the other side. He was cured in four months, and walked about at the end of a 1 month.” He refers also to a case of de Limbourg’s, of which the following is an extract t A young man was ramming down the powder in his fowling-piece with an iron ram-rod, ! the gun went off, and the ramrod struck the head of a person a few paces distant, and, I entering a finger’s breadth by the side, and as much above the outer corner of the eye, ) at the root of the zygomatic arch, passed through the teguments at the back of the ): head, at the posterior superior angle of the parietal bone, a finger’s breadth from the f sagittal suture, and as much above the superior angle of the occipital bone. The >•■ wounded man immediately endeavoured to pull the ramrod out, but ineffectually; but 1 one of his companions at last pulled it out, as straight as when it left the maker’s hands. 1 He lost little blood and only at the apertures of the wound, which healed quickly and 0 completely by simple but proper treatment. In speaking of gun-shot wounds in the neighbourhood of, or penetrating the orbit, the following are some of the most important mentioned by Hennen ;—“ Sometimes the ball e passes behind the eyes, destroying their power, either by cutting the optic nerves at s once, or causing their subsequent inflammation and thickening. An additional proof of 4 the decussation of these nerves is afforded by the effects of gun-shot wounds of the eye; H for, in many instances, an injury by a ball inflicted in the neighbourhood of one pro- n duces paralysis of the other.” (p. 340.) “ In some cases the ball passes into the orbit i' without bursting the eye-ball, although the power of vision is totally lost.” (p. 341.) 1 “ Diplopia sometimes, though rarely, takes place from gun-shot wounds in the neigh- 0 bourhood of the eyes, of which the following case is an example:—A. B. received a >• wound from a musket-ball, which brushed along the root of the nose and onwards to- *' wards the right eye-brow, but without producing any injury to the bone, and so little !S derangement that the wound healed in a very few days. Immediately on being struck \ by the ball, double vision took place. * * * In about two months the disease was e removed, but, on running into some excess in drinking, it returned again, and the wound 0 burst out afresh. A recurrence to a more rigid regimen perfected the cure in a fort- |i night, and he was discharged entirely from hospital.” (p. 345.) Sometimes a ball will ’£ enter the orbit, and afterwards descend into “ the posterior part of the fauces, forming a n tumour behind, and nearly in contact with the velumpalati,” which happened to a soldier, 1 who, in consequence, suffered severe pain, had his respiration impeded, his deglutition id obstructed, his speech rendered indistinct, and much irritation in the fauces, attended li with constant flow of saliva and frequent inclination to vomit.” (pp. 341, 42.)] 1 Peatner, Progr. de Vulneribus Superciliis ilatis, curcaccitatem inferant ad locum [ii Hippocrates. Lipsim, 1741. 1 Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten, Wien, 1813, vol. i. p. 168. > VON Waether, in his Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, vol. iii. p. l. ) Cheltos, Handbuch der Augenheilkunde; vol. i. • 459. Slight longitudinal and transverse Wounds of the Eyelids may be V) always united by court plaster, if it be only so placed that its ends are not 4 loosened by the moisture of the tears. In vertical wounds, dividing the ^ eyelid, the suture is always to be recommended, the threads, however, are to be drawn only through the external fold of the skin, and between the threads strips of court plaster are to be applied. The eye is to be kept closed witli a vertical strip of plaster, and covered with a compress. Hori- ^ zontal wounds of the eyelids, if large and connected with loss of substance, i require the suture for their perfect closure, although, in many cases, they I can be united by strips of sticking plaster stretched from the cheek to the