238 SCROFULOUS INFLAMMATION wounds close, others break out, and hectic fever threatens to exhaust the patient. [“ There is another malady,” says Brodie, “ which affects the joints, having all the character of scrofula, generally occurring in persons who have a scrofulous appearance, and usually preceded by, or combined with, scrofulous symptoms. In this disease of the joints, the cancellous structure of the bone is the part primarily affected; in consequence of which ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering their articulating surfaces. The cartilages being ulcerated, the subsequent progress of the disease is, in many respects, the same as where this ulceration takes place in the first instance.” (p. 22(i.) The morbid affection appears to have its origin in the bones, which become preternaturally vascular, and containing a less than usual quantity of earthy matter; while at first a transparent fluid, and afterwards a yellow cheesy substance, is deposited in their cancelli. From the diseased Ixme we see, in some instances, vessels carrying red blood extend into the cartilage. The cartilage afterwards ulcerates in spots, the ulceration beginning on that surfaee which is connected to the bone. The ulceration of the cartilage often proceeds very slowly. 1 have known a knee amputated on account of this disease, in which the cartilage was absorbed for not more than the extent of a sixpence. Occasionally a portion of the carious bone dies and exfoliates. As the caries of the bones advance* inflammation takes place of the cellular membrane, external to the joint. Serum, and afterwards coagulable lymph, is effused, and hence arises a puffy and elastic swelling in the early, and an cedematous sweUing in the advanced, stage of the disease. Abscess having formed in the joint, makes its way by ulceration through the ligaments and synovial membrane, and afterwards bursts externally, having caused the formation of numerous and circuitous sinuses in the neighbouring soft parts. In one case, thin layers of cartilage were found lying on the ulcerated surface of bone, apparently uncon- nected with it; In some instances, in the advanced stages of this disease, we find nearly the whole of the cartilage forming an exfoliation instead of being ulcerated. Thu scrofulous affection attacks those bones, or portions of bones, which have a spongy tex- ture, as the extremities of the cylindrical bones, and the bones of the carpus and tarsus, and hence the joints become affected from their contiguity to the parts which are the original seat of the disease. Sometimes, however, we may trace the effects of these morbid changes even in the shaft of a cylindrical bone; so that we see the femur or tibia converted in its middle into a thin shell of earthy matter, enclosing a medullary canal of unusual magnitude. It has been remarked by a modem author (a), that in ffie last stage of this disease the bones not only lose the preternatural vascularity which they possessed at an early period, but even become less vascular than healthy bone. I believe the observation to be correct; and this diminution of the number of vessels, and, conse- quently, of the supply of blood, is probably (as this author has suggested) the proximate cause of those exfoliations which sometimes occur where the disease has existed for a considerable length of time, especially in the smaller bones.” (p. 245-48.) Upon this condition, his “ last form, in which ulceration (or rather absorption) of cartilage takes place,” Key (i) observes:—“ There are two forms of disease in bone under which this secondary absorption of cartilage takes place; the one is of a chronic nature; the other assumes an acute form; but in the process of ulceration the same passive condition of the cartilage may be observed as in that which commences within the cavity of the joint. The chronic form is that in which a strumous action takes place in the cancellated structure,” (pp. 243, 44,) and is that just described. “ I apprehend,” says Key, “ that most pathologists will concur in the probability of the loss of the cartilage being effected by means of the vascular granulations that spring up from the cancelli, and appear to form a continuous structure with the surface of the cartilage. In making a transverse section of the joint, under these circumstances, there is no trace to be seen of increased vascularity in the cartilage, nor in the synovial membrane, until the action is far ad- vanced, that can lead us to suppose that the cartilage was ulcerated by any other agent than the vascular tissue of the bone. The acute form of the disease differs from the former in the comparative suddennes of the attack, as well as in the appearance which the bone presents. The former is like all strumous affections, slow in its progress, and at first marked by little or no pain in the part. Months often elapse before tlie symptoms become severe, and the constitution much affected. But in the acute form of disease attacking the spongy extremities of bones, the pain is often severe in the beginning, the limb at that part tender when pressed, and the constitution a good deal disturbed. A/cw weeks only elapse (rt) Lloyd on Scrofula, p. 123. (,6) Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii.