STITCHING OR SUTURE, 326 still in use, but seldom proves equal to the intention. This we may reckon to be the only one that deserves the name of suture ; it was formerly used, but is now in a great measure laid aside in practice, not from the impropriety of uniting parts by this process, but from the ineffectual mode of attempting it.” (p. 210.) ' The use of sutures to retain the edges of a wound together, and thereby encourage the process of adhesion, is still a matter of dispute among Surgeons; some employing them on every occasion, and others never using them at all; some considering that they are very powerful auxiliaries in uniting a wound, and others that they are objec- tionable as oftentimes exciting constitutional irritation, and thereby disturbing or preventing the adhesive process. The real, though generally overlooked, ground of objection to them is their indiscriminate use, both as to the condition of the parts on which they are applied, and the length of time they are left after having been introduced. Sutures are commonly employed “ in those parts of the body,” to use Hukteb’s expression, “ where the skin recedes more than in othersand here he considers “ this treatment becomes most necessary.” (p. 210.) But to this it may be added, that they are very frequently employed to drag together the skin edges of a wound which, without them, eould not be brought together at all. Or they are used without any reason what- ever, as in sealp-wounds; of which Hunter remarks, that “as the scalp probably recedes as little as any part of the body, it is therefore seldom necessary to apply any thing in wounds of that part.” (p. 210.) Or they are left in so long, even when their introduction has been proper, that they tecome irritants, and undo the good they might have served to. I cannot agree even with Hunter upon the necessity of employing sutures, when parts recede from each other; nor with the practice of drag^ng them together with sutures when otherwise they cannot be retained in connexion, for this simple reason, that if they pull at all upon the parts they are purposed to unite, ulcera- tion is immediately set up at the points where they press, and speedily they cut their way through and are entirely useless. In wounds of the scalp, or of other parts, which with a little management and by position may be kept together, they are unneeded, and, in the scalp especially, they often act as extraneous bodies and excite, or at any rate keep up, irritation, as is proved by the irritation subsiding when they are removei They are also objectionable, under any circumstances, if left in after they have induced ulceration, which is a proof that the constitution is desirous of ridding itself of them; under this condition, independent of the irritation which they may, and often do pro- duce, their occupation is gone; they become loose, and therefore no longer hold the parts together. If judiciously employed, however, and not permitted to remain too long, sutures are often very usefol. But their sole object is to keep parts which readily fall together or can be brought into contact, more steadily in their place, and to prevent them slipping one way or other out of their proper position, neither of which can be so well effected either by bandage or sticking plaster. Upon these principles alone should sutures be used, and not with the intention of forcibly bringing together parts which, from various causes, may be indisposed or incapable of themselves to come into contact. Thus it is t very proper to connect by suture the edges of a wound of the eyelid, of the mouth, or even of the nose, either of which readily fall together; but unless retained in their place unite awry, and cause much disfigurement. But it is very improper, as well as very useless, to employ sutures in a wound across a muscle, which may or may not be in- volved in the wound; because the action of the muscular fibres will be constantly pull- ing the edges of the wound asunder, and thus dragging on the sutures, compel them to become irritants and excite ulceration, until they cut through and free the skin which they vainly attempt to confine. As regards the time they should be allowed to remain, and during which they are of any real use, under the most favourable circumstances for their employment, as a general rule, from thirty to fifty hours is the utmost space of time for which they should be left. They should, if possible, always be removed either before or immediately after they have began to ulcerate, which is known by the needle-hole assuming a little redness and becoming moist by the welling up of a very minute quantity of pus, often, indeed, only sufficient to damp and thicken the thread. Directly this occurs, however soon it is observed, the suture should be cut on one side of its tie and removed, because from that time the suture has effected all it can do and begins to act as an irritant. The number of sutures to be used depends on the nicety requisite to adjust the position of the divided parts; and they should never be thick, as the larger they are the more distinct will be the little hollow scars which they always leave. They should never lie ■ drawn so tightly as to pucker the edges of the skin which they include, but merelv so tight as to bring the edges all but close; consequently the loop should be, when first