DISLOCATION 782 however, does not think that the head is dislocated consecutively, when ji the muscles have once contracted and no great violence operates. '' Less change of position may originate in the absorption arising from i i pressure. > Opinions vary in reference to the primitive direction of dislocation of the upper ?flP arm. Many (Hippocrates, Duverney, Fabhicius ab Aquapendente, Desaui* Mursinna, Kicherand, Mothe, and others) admit only the dislocation downwardt u i i primitive, and that inwards and outwards as secondary. Others (Velpeau, Mal- . j gaigne) determine only two primitive dislocations, namely forwards and inwards, and I backwards and outwards. 1030. The several kinds of dislocation of the upper-arm are charac- ■ ^ tererized by the following symptoms: In dislocation downwards, the arm is rather longer, can be moved only ' a little outwards, and motion in any other direction causes severe pain; in old persons, however, the laxity of the muscles often permits more .• extensive motion ; the elbow stands out from the trunk ; the patient inclines * himself towards the side of the dislocation, holds the arm half-bent, and I supports his elbow on his hip. Beneath the acromion, which seems more t prominent, a hollow is observed, the joint has lost its roundness, the • middle line of the arm is directed towards the arm-pit in which is felt a . globular protuberance, formed by the displaced head of the bone, only however when the arm is separated from the trunk. A kind of crackling ; is frequently noticed on motion, depending on the exuded matter, or on i the effusion of synovia, which disappears on continuance of motion, and is . never so great as in fracture. The pressure of the head of the bone upon the axillary plexus often causes loss of sensation, and the sensation of ' being asleep in the fingers. In dislocation inwards, the elbow stands out from the trunk, and is i inclined a little backwards; the direction of the arm corresponds to the ■ middle of the collar-bone, the movement of the arm backwards is not very painful, but forwards extremely so. Beneath the great pectoral muscle is ; felt the protuberance of the head ; the arm has either its natural length or ■ is rather shorter ; the flattening of the shoulder is observed especially at its hinder part; the fore-arm is not half bent. In dislocation outwards, the arm is inclined inwards and forwards, the • flattening of the shoulder is most distinct in front; the head of the bone - fonns a prominence in the infra-spinate pit; the arm may be moved for- wards with the least pain, but every other movement is in the highest degree painful. ; In imperfect dislocation, where the head is inclined forwards against the coraond ; process, a hollow is observed opposite the back of the shoulder-joint and the hinder half of the glenoid cavity is perceptible; the axis of the arm is inwards and forward*; the under motions of the limb may be completely performed, but the arm cannot be I raised, because the upper-arm is thrust against the coracoid process of the blade-txine; \ the head forms a distinct protuberance, and if the arm be rotated, the rolling motion of ■ i the head is felt. ... , i It is very diflScult, and generally impossible, in dislocation of the upper-arm, to deter- ^ mine whether the dislocation of file head of the bone inwards, be primary or couse<» | five; but inquiry as to how the symptoms have followed each other, and even the treatment in setting, may perhaps aflbrd some clue. 1031. Dislocations of the upper-arm are produced by violence, which strikes the arm, and happens only on that particular direction of the ann, at the moment when the violence acts, according to which side the head of the bone is driven against the capsule and dislocated. In the