396 WOUNDS OF THE over the right eye were much swollen and tender; he had constant pain shooting through the forehead, and restlessness, so as to prevent his sleep; pulse 80; mental faculties ‘ unimpaired. On the 28th he was moved in a palanquin to badulla. He recovered under the most simple treatment; but during the course of his cure there was a constant dis- charge of bloody serum mixed with pus from the wound; and pus with bits of bone passed from the nostrils. On 29th March he was conveyed to Colombo. Soon after he returned to his duty; but in the latter end of the year he was troubled with the protru- sion of a metallic body through the palate, and a very offensive discharge, of which, however, he was not aware, having lost the sense of smell at the time of the accident In May 1835, the metal had projected so far as to render attempts at its removal, by filing it off, feasible ; but the endeavour to do so was productive of such excessive agony that it was not persisted in. He continued in much the same state, and died on 25th March of the following year, from imprudence in drinking. On examining the head after death, the whole of the iron breech of the gun, with the screw attached, weighing nearly three ounces, and its length two inches aud three-quarters, were found lodged in the forehead. The anterior portion of the right hemisphere of the brain rested on the fiat part of the breech, and separated from it only by a false membrane.] 398. What has been already said, in many respects applies to Injuries of the Brain and its membranes. The dura mater may be wounded or torn, either by the injuring instrument or by depression of the piece of ■ bone, irritated, pressed, or inflamed by the blood poured out; or its con- nexion with the skull may be disturbed, in which case the ves.sels connected with it are torn ; or it may be so injured by bruising that it inflames, suppurates, and so on. The brain may be variously damaged by tlie wounding instrument or by depres.sed bone ; balls, or other foreign bodies, ; may remain lodged in it; and even entire parts of the brain may be bruised or lost. The consequences of concussion are also sometimes observed deep ■ in the brain, as well as directly opposite where it has been struck, as proved by outpouring of blood and other signs at parts other than those which were struck. The mass of the brain may be thereby torn, or be pressed apart by the fluid poured out in the brain. These injuries are always extremely dangerous. The symptoms which either occur at once, or come on at a shorter or longer period, are those of commotion, of inflammation, or pres- sure of the brain. [“ Perforations of the bone, from bayonet thrusts, are rare and generally fatal,” says Hennen, “ but whenever the patient survives, their mechanical treatment will eonsist merely in extracting spicula of bone, and elevating any depression that may occur. Where bayonet or pike thrusts take place in the orbits, temples, or through the roof ’ of the mouth, or the occipital foramen into the base of the brain, they are most generally fatal; indeed those through the orbit and base of the cranium are almost invariably i so.” (p. 280.) . ' We have in the museum at St. Thomas’s Hospital an example of fatal perforation of 11 the orbital plate of the frontal bone, of which Astley Cooper gives an account, by a if girl, aged twelve years, falling on a pair of scissors, the point of whieh entered between the eyelid and the fore part of the globe of the eye; on the scissors being drawn out ; some blood followed; the eyelid fell, and she was unable to raise it; she did not how- ever complain much of pain in the orbit, and had no pain in her head. Up to the third day “ she walked about without fatigue, but then soon tired. On the fourth ^y ■ she was still free from pain, except a little in the eye, but could not see with the other r eye. She still walked about the room with assistance.” On the fifth day she w:is ont in a coach, enjoyed the ride though she could not see, and was in good spirits, but on returning home, “ complained of fatigue, and went immediately to bed. At seven m the evening she was seized with convulsions in her limbs, and now and then her features were distorted. At twelve o’clock that night the convulsions left her, and her s-ens® returned, which had been lost during the fit. She now for the first time coinplaineu ^ of pain in her head, which she said was very violent and .attended with a sensation o ereat weight. At nine o’clock on the morning of the sixth day the convulsions retumeo, and continued till her death on the following morning. On opening the cranium, a ■ fracture was found in the orbitar process of the os frontis, in which there was a no