489 and of the joints. small hydrocele of which I believe I had an instance last spring. A man who had had t nf for twciity Tcars, was first tapped three years ago, a second time Kun? lf4faKe thlrlrLe fn tlm early part of April, 1845 ; the swelling being Zii small and 4ry li^ fluid drawn off, led to the presumption that the testicle must ?aVe bef wounded^ He kept quiet for a few days, and then returned to his work, but very s^n the ri-ht side of the purse began to swell, to become red and painful, and these sv^mtOTis ouickh-increased so much, that he came to the hospital under my care, witl?thrpurse swollen to the size of two fists, very red and shiny, but not very tender ; the swelliiiff was pear-shaped, fluctuating unequally, in some parts soft and elastic but in Sers hard®and fim. The body of the testicle could not be clearly defined, and the cord was very thick and dense. His bowels were cleared with colocynth and calomel an evaporating lotion applied, and the purse raised, so as to favour the return of the blood In a few days, under this treatment, the swelling subsided and he was cured. This Oise shows the propriety of not tapping small hydroceles.—J. F. S.] VIII.—OF WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 557. In Wounds of Joints ( Vulnera Articulorum) either the capsular litrament only is opened, or the joint-ends of the bones are also injured in various ways. The direction and depth of a wound, and the sponta- neous escape, or the escape produced by pressure, of a transparent fluid, {synmia,) declares its entrance into the cavity of a joint. Frequently, how- ever, no synovia escapes, because the wound of the skin and of the cap- sular ligament have become displaced; and, on the contrary, the escape of a transparent viscous fluid is no certain sign that the wound penetrates the joint, as it may happen in a wound of a mucous bag. Probing for the purpose of determining the entrance of a wound into a joint is objectionable, because it may excite inflammation, and is only necessary in those cases in which the existence of a foreign body in the wound is to be ascertained. In large wounds the diagnosis is easy. 558. The danger is always great in wounds of joints, and depends in general on the inflammation caused by the injury itself, or by the entrance of the air or of foreign bodies. Cuts and stabs often heal without any particular symptoms ; and this may be expected if the cavity of the joint be not long exposed to the contact of the air, if the joint-ends of the bones be not injured, and if no blood be effused into the joint cavity. Bruised wounds, especially shot-wounds, are extremely dangerous. [“ It is from the disposition that the cavities of joints have to fall into the snppurative inflammation when an opening is made into them,” says John Hunter, “ that nnion by the first intention does not take place. The greatest care should be taken to put this in their power if possible, for as they do not readily run through the regular stages of in- flammation, they give rise to the more violent symptoms. When they suppurate it is very tedious, and then the parts are apt to die and slough, which makes these accidents of such dangerous consequence. In cases of wounds, 1 should think a simple bandage would be best. We should avoid making stitches, because they tend to produce inflam- mation.” (p. 449.) Astley Cooper says:—“ In young and healthy constitutions, these wounds in the largest i joints are recovered from; but in aged and weak persons, they destroy life. Upon dis- i Mction in the first stage, suppurative inflammation of the synovial membrane is found • in the second stage, the ligaments of the joint are thickened, and the synovial membrane II in part ulcerated, in part granulating. The cartilages are absorbed; granulations aris- t ing from some parts of the bones, and exfoliation taking place from other portions ” f (pp. 2.50, 51.)] ‘ P • « 559. The treatment of chops and cuts into joints is the same. After the joint is put in a proper position, the wound must be united in the »• closest manner with sticking plaster, and, if possible, the parallelism be- 31' tween the wound of the skin and that of the capsular ligament must be