180 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION harder than usual, that one surface of the tunica vaginalis was glued to the other, in ' some cases partially, and in others entirely.” (p. 21.) (4) Suppuration is but rare when the inflammation of the testicle is sympathetic; thus forming one of the instances of the law on this point, recognised by John Huntkh, ■ and already adverted to in speaking of sympathetic l)ubo {par IGO, note.') And, I indeed, generally suppuration following inflammation of the testicle, from any cause, I is not frequent. In these cases “ the tunica albuginea” says Astley Cooper, “ like ® other tendinous structures possessing few absorbent vessels, does not readily give way i to the pressure of the abscess; and it is a long time before it discharges itself, even after | the matter can be distinguished by fluctuation. It generally breaks at several aper- \ tures, and sinuses follow, which are very difficult to heal, for they issue a seminal as i well as a purulent discharge.” (p. 12.) ' Not unfrequently, after the bursting of an abscess in the testicle, a fungus shoots up, which often exceeds the size of the testicle. It is not painful and but little sensible; nei- • i ther is it malignant, nor likely to become so, but it often grows very pertinaciously, and f requires removal to get rid of its inconvenience. The constitutional excitement is often very great, setting in with nausea, and followed 1 by hot skin, furred tongue, quick pulse, and constipated bowels, and sometimes even with i severe rigors. It is scarcely possible to confuse orchitis with any other disease, on account of its • ■' ordinarily slow progress, and from the epididymis and the body of the testicle being,. , in general, readily discernible from each other, although much swollen. But Samuel , Cooper has mentioned a case in which on the fifth day there was so much pain in the belly, accompanied with incessant vomiting, great constipation, and high constitutional disturbance, that it led to a presumption of a rupture, from which, however, it was dis-- tinguished by the want of particular protrusion at the ring, by absence of tension of the belly, to one side of which alone the pain was confined. When swelling of the testicle arises from blows, it comes on very quickly, and doubt-- less depends on the bursting of some vessel or vessels in the testicle; and it may bet complicated with hematocele or effusion of blood into the vaginal tunic. “ Wasting of the testicles,” says Astley Cooper, “is another effect of inflammation:! ; in this organ; and this absorption takes place more frequently at the age of puberty; than at any other time; ” generally follows inflammation from a blow ; sometimes,- when it arises spontaneously, and rarely after gonorrhoea, “ it begins to be absorbed^ i as the swelling subsides ; but the absorption does not stop at the natural size of the part,;, i but proceeds until the whole of the glandular structure of the organ is absorbed, leavingg.i the tunica vaginalis adhering to the tunica albuginea and the septa within the latter; but the whole substance which remains is not larger than the extremity of the finger,' : and it feels a firm and very solid body.” (pp. 23, 24.) Probably the tube of the vas de-- i fevens is obliterated, as its functions cease; for, in a preparation we have in St. Thomas’s -: Museum, of a wasted testicle, the quicksilver would not descend to within an inch of-: the testicle—J. f. s. (5) Astley Cooper says, that the globus major “is more frequently diseased than aTiy other part of the testis or epididymis,” an observation the correctness of which ex-» ^ perience fully proves ; and he might have added, that it is also of longer endurance, an* i more difficult to get rid of. “ But,” he observes, “ the result is less important here than in; other parts, because some of the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi still carry the semew i from the testicle to the epididymis. When the hardening is in the upper part of th( epididymis, adhesive matter is effused into the cellular membrane, between the coni ra^- culosi, at their termination in the epididymis; and sometimes a sac, containing a muci laginous fluid, is found at that part. The coni vasculosi, under this state of disease, arc thickened, hardened, and of a dark brown colour.” (p. 22.)] 172. The Cure of inflammation of the testicle is directed by its c<Tustx and degree. If consequent on gonorrhma, still in its commencement and connected witli no great swelling, the patient must keep quiet, sup-, port the testicle, apply cold lotions of lead wash, lay softening bread- poultices upon the penis, and take a cooling purge. Cold applications - however, which are only to be used at the beginning when the swelling, is small, frequently cannot be borne, in whicli case soothing fomentation! and poultices are to be preferred. In greater inflammation, in robus persons, blood must be taken away or leeches applied in sufticient quantilj