399 INFLAMMATION OF THE DUEA MATER. j cavity of the cranium, by breaking through the orbital process of the frontal bone, B : going through the anterior part of the brain, and then passing upwards alrout as far as the coronal suture, making a distinct track throughout its course upon the surface of : the brain. In this instance there was no one symptom during the fortnight the patient B lived that could have led one to suppose that any injury whatever had happened to the I brain.” (p. 523.) g (2) As in wound of the dura mater much danger is to be dreaded from the extension g of the inflammation to and throughout the serous arachnoid membrane by which it is B lined, the younger Cline advised that a puncture should be forthwith made through the 1 arachnoid and pia mater into the surface of the brain, for the purpose of exciting a'more t lactive and immediate inflammation, by which the general serous cavity might at once I be shut off from the wound that he thus hoped to circumscribe. I once saw him adopt h this practice, but the patient died ; the injury he had received, upon examination after deatli, showing itself to have been beyond remedy. Astley Cooper also recommended this treatment, but without acknowledging at whose suggestion.—J. F. S.] 400. 'When good suppuration takes place, a nourishing diet and con- stantly dry dressings are advisable. If the suppuration be bad and thin, if fresh symptoms of inflammation arise, there is probably some splinter, which it must be attempted to remove; or the pus may not flow freely, in which case it may be necessary to enlarge the opening in the bone by trepanning. If an abscess form in the brain, it must be opened with a lancet (1). If the patient be weak, the suppuration bad, or the wound itself gangrenous, strengthening remedies must be used, especially bark, and it must be bound up with astringent remedies, as lime water, decoction of bark or of elm bark, with tincture of myrrh, with digestive salves and the like. If a portion of the brain be entirely spoiled, it must be taken away. Loose pieces of bone must De carefully withdrawn. The dressings should be changed each time as quickly as possible, so that the wound be not long exposed to the air ; care nust also be taken that the air surrounding the patient should not be foul. [(1) If there be any sufficient guide to the situation of the abscess, I do not see any )bjection to making a cut through the brain to it; but to ascertain this is always very liflScult and generally impossible, as it by no means follows that the abscess is imme- liately opposite the part where the blow has been received. The case which Guthrie juotes from La Peyronie (a) appears to be merely a simple circumscribed collection )f pus beneath the dura mater, which, as its quantity increased, enlarged its cavity at he expense of the brain, so that it was presumed to have attained the size of a hen’s :gg, and to have descended to the corpus callosum. It was immediately emptied by mncturing the dura mater. Dupdytren’s case (6) is, however, an abscess in the substance of the brain. A young nan was wounded on the head with a knife; the wound healed, leaving only a little )ain, which occasionally came on about the scar. Some years after he was brought to he_ Hotel-Dieu, in a state of stupefaction, with which he had been suddenly seized. An ncision through the scar exposed the point of the knife sticking in the bone, the removal f w'hich gave no relief. The trephine was also applied without benefit. The paralysis ontinuing on the side opposite to that on which the wound had been received, it was etermined to open the dura mater, and plunge a knife into the brain, which evacuated large quantity of pus. The paralysis ceased that night; he recovered his speech, •ecame sensible, and entirely though gradually recovered.] 401. Foreign bodies often remain in the brain with different con- equences. Sometimes they do not give rise to the slightest symptom hrough the whole of life; sometimes merely pain is produced when the lead is placed in a certain position; sometimes they cause cramps, and pileptic fits ; often sudden coma, convulsions, and death. [Numerous examples are given of foreign bodies lodged in the substance of the ■rain, and producing symptoms of less or greater severity; but in the greater number it nil be found, that after a few months they die either suddenly, or from some inflamma- «i)Snrlapartiedu Ccrveauou 1’Ame exercesesfonctions; inllist. do I’Acad. des Sciences, 1744, p. 199 ^ (6) Lancette Francaise, 14th Oct. 18J0. ^