505 BY IMMOVABLE APPARATUS. . splint however carefully padded, and that the materials are always at hand in every house, and of the most trifling expense. , ,• v The first method I saw employed, and which I first used, was that of linen splints and a roller, according to Lawrence’s plan. The splints are made by covering one side of the limb with a piece of linen or lint soaked in water, and of rather larger size than the splint is proposed to be. White of egg and flour well mixed, and of the con- sistence of very thick cream or batter, is spread over three or four strips of linen, each about three fingers’ width, and of corresponding length with the limb; and these, one after anotlier, are laid upon the lint with their spread surface downwards, and the edge of each, after the first, a little overlapping the other. All the air is to be got from beneath the linen, by gently passing the finger from one end to the other, but always one way, or the splint will not be even; and when the whole has become well applied to the lint, then a layer of short strips, also spread with the eg^ and flour, are to be placed across the long ones from one end to the other, and each a little overlapping the other, as in the first layer, and the whole to be carefully pressed down and the air discharged as before. A second layer of long strips is then to be applied, over this a second layer of cross strips, and then a third layer of long strips, all spread with the mixture, completes the splint. Great care must be used in pressing out all the air, otherwise the splint is weak; but if this be well done, then as the linen and the mixture dries, the splint becomes as tough and unyielding as a board, and fits like a mould to the limb. During the drying of the splint, which usually occupies twelve or sixteen hours, the patient must be careful to keep his limb in the position in which it has been placed, or the splint will be disturbed and harden awry. 'This constrained position, even for so short a time, is the principal inconvenience and objection to this mode of treatment. On the next day, if the splint be tolerably dry, it should be carefully removed, the edges cut smooth with a sharp knife, and then a little pressed out with the thumb, to prevent them digging into the skin and causing a sore. After this the limb is to be turned over and laid upon it, and then the other side of the limb to have a splint made like the former. Care must be taken that the edges of the splints should be at least half an inch asunder, so that they should not jostle each other, nor prevent a little pressure being made upon them by the roller, nor hinder their drawing together subsequently when the limb has shnmk, which it usually is after a fortnight. On the third day the last-made splint is to be removed, its edges pared and pressed out, and then replaced. The limb is now raised, being kept in place by the splints, and all are to be swathed, from end to end, in a roller of six yards length, which having been soaked in pretty thick starch, is first rolled up, and then carried round spirally, and with as many reflexes as may be necessary to make it lie even; after which the whole is to be gently pressed down, and brushed over with starch, and then the limb laid in an easy and convenient position to dry. On the fifth day the patient may leave his bed and move about, either carrying his foot in a sling, or bear- ing upon it as he may be disposed. The starched bandage generally needs renewal at thaend of a week or fortnight, on account of the shrinking of the soft parts; but very commonly nothing more is requisite till the entire removal of the splints. A much more simple, and equally eflBcient, treatment is a starched or gummed roller, without even linen splints, closely applied three or four times over the whole limb, which has been first covered with lint. The gummed roller is that which in our hospital pracrice is almost alone used in fractures of the leg, either of one or both bones, and in fractures of both the upper and fore arm. In the employment of either of these methods care should be taken that neither should be used till the swelling has completely subsided, that is, not till the lapse of five or seven days after the accident, during which time the limb may either lie simply on a pdlow, or be temporarily put up lightly in wooden splints. I do not think it prudent to put the apparatus on immediately after the accident, for very often the swelling and confluent pain from its tightness will compel its removal; or if left untouched there will be the same danger of mortification as from tightly-bound splints of the common materials have been proposed with which the roller should be spread, or in which It should be soaked, a number of experiments on the composition of which have made bySMEE (a). kn recently proposed the use of oil varnish in the treatment of frac- , fi! children, where by the constant moisture of the Jnne the common apparatus falls to pieces. He first applies a starch bandage, and Siw Moulding Tablets (6) Examinateur Medical, Aug. 1841 • and ; to , c., in I^ancet, vol. i. p. 833, 1838- Forbes’ British and Foreign Medict^ Review, vol. ; xii. p. 544.