707 BLEEDING FKOM THE TOOTH-SOCKETS. not closing, the tooth must be drawn. If there be curies of the alveolar process, it must be treated according to tlie general rules. rCl') The bleediiiff which ensues occasionally in consequence of drawing a tooth of a person who has Innmorrhagic is a matter of very serious consequence and has sometimes destroyed life. I have seen several severe, though not fatal cases, of this kind, and as it seemed to me, that the blood came from the very bottom of one or other of the fang- sockets, when the tooth had more than one, I presume that the bleeding vessel was the proper artery of the tooth, and that the difficulty in arresting the hemorrhage depended on the difficulty of getting at the vessel itself; for unless it can be immediately acted upon, whatever be the local application, it is sure to fail. Various remedies have been proposed; I have tried most of them without success, but have never failed with the actual cautery, when I have properly applied it, that is, when its point has been sufficiently small to descend into the very bottom of the fang-socket. When I first had recourse to tliis practice I failed from not thrusting the hot wire (which makes the best cautery for this purpose, and should not be more than a line thick) down to the veiy bottom of the socket; bnt having corrected this error, I have never failed since, in at least half-a-dozen cases; and, therefore, believe that its inefficiency in the hands of others has arisen from the same cause which at first foiled me. There is nothing very frightful in the employ- ment of this remedy, nor does it produce more than momentary and slight pain, and I think it is, therefore, best to resort to it at once without wasting time, and allowing the patient to lose blood to such extent as to disturb the constitutional powers, and excite any latent phthisical tendency, of which I have known an instance. Blagden mentions (a) the case of a person, who, whilst a boy, after the extraction of a tooth, bled from the socket for twenty-one days. Whenever he cut himself, or received a slight wound, there was always great difficulty in stopping the bleeding. At twenty-six Vears of age he had a trifling wound on the forehead, which bled profiisely, and could not oe stopped by pressure or styptics, or even by tying both ends of the artery, but was finally :hecked with caustic potash, which caused a large slough. In the next year he was aiuch troubled with caries of the second upper molar tooth, which, remembering what aad previously happened, he bore with for some time, but at last the pain became so severe that he had the tooth drawn June 30, 1816, and at its bottom was an abscess; ree bleeding immediately ensued, and this continuing on the next evening, Blagden leing called to him, applied lunar caustic to the bottom of the socket without effect; ;hen introduced a sponge tent soaked in solution of sulphate of copper, which checked ;he bleeding for a few hours, but it recurred, and continued profuse, notwithstanding ;hat the socket was carefully plugged. On the morning of July Uh, Brodie applied :he actual cautery, and stopped the bleeding for six hours, but in the evening it broke 3ut afresh, as violent as before, notwithstanding the socket was again carefully plugged, md the cautery twice applied; in doing the latter, a large quantity of matter apparently Tom the maxillary sinus, escaped. The bleeding still continued, and next day the latient being very low and depressed, although he had never fainted, it was determined ;o tie the common epotid artery, which was done by Brodie at 10 a.m., hut “ the immorrhage still continued. The wound made in the operation bled very little at first, lut in the course of a few minutes after the operation it began to bleed profusely. No’ angle vessel could be observed bleeding, but there was a general oozing from its sur- ace. Ice was applied^ to the wound, and while this was continued the bleeding from t wp suppressed, bp it returned immediately on the ice being removed. Ice was also iplied to the left side of the face, and there was reason to believe that it stopped the deeding for a few hours; however, the hsemorrhage afterwards returned, and the latient ped at 5 a.m. on the Ith July, a week from the time of the removal of the ootn. (p. 224-2/,) The following case was under my own care:— J years, a leather-dyer, of delicate frame and not very temperate habits Bias admitted into George’s Ward ^ uuoiis, lSrda’^%- r raffifSp! which lfntSd\Ye?ding‘fort^^^^^ Sr 1) r ialr ^ frequently washing his mouth witlf cold rater. On the morning of the Ulh he went to his medical attendanrwlm applSd Cfl) Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, vol, viii. 1817. 2 z 2