REMARKABLE INSTANCES OF 442 Feh. 25, 1831, On his admission, 10, A.M., the countenance was livid, the breathing excessively distressed; small quantities of frothy blood were occasionally spat up, the pulse intermitting; and for some time after his admission, these symptoms increased, threatening almost immediate suffocation. The bolt had entered the chest, between the fourth and fifth ribs of the left side, about an inch and a half from the middle of the breast-bone, passed obliquely downwards and outwards, and came out between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, four inches from the left side of the spine, but was prevented passing further by the collar, which chipped out a piece of cartilage, leaving the point of the heart with very insecure protection. The fourth rib was broken at its junction with its cartilage, as was also the twelfth, and that side of the chest was flattened. In addition to his hurt, the scalp on the right side was considerably lacerated, extending from the frontal to the lower part of the occipital bone, and exposing a grc'at part of the temporal muscle. The lower jaw was also badly fractured. A pledget of lint was applied over the wound, and fastened with adhesive straps, but nothing more was done, and two hours after his admission the more urgent symptoms of suffocation had subsided, and he rallied a little. 7 P.M. The pulse had become full and rapid, varying between 100 and 110; the respiration on the left side was inaudible, except at the upper part of tlie chest; and on the right side it was puerile; twelve ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which slightly relieved him, and a dose of calomel and rhubarb given, which freely purged him. Feh. 26. Has passed a restless night; pulse 110; tongue brown and dry in the middle. In the afternoon thirty leeches were applied to the chest: two grains of calomel ordered every four hours; milk at his pleasure. In the evening the same number of leeches were again applied; and, the pulse continuing accelerated, towards midnight ten ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which produced syncope, and on his revival the patient thought himself better. Feb. '17. Had passed a quiet but sleepless night; pulse 110. Leeches were applied morning and evening. Feb. 28. He passed a tolerable night, occasionally getting half an hour’s sleep. The pulse continued rapid but weak. On applying the ear to the chest the pulsations of the heart were found violent, much more than indicated by the pulse. Thirty leeches were therefore ordered to the region of the heart. In the afternoon his bowels were copiously relieved. As towards evening he became restless, and dreaded a long night, fifty minims of laudanum were given at bed-time, which threw him into a profound sleep that lasted four hours. March 1. Was not so well this morning; and the pulse being quick and fuller, the leeches were repeated on the chest, and fifteen ounces of blood, which was highly buffed and cupped, were taken from the arm; these rendered him faint, but somewhat relieved him. At midnight, the pulse continuing rapid, twelve ounces of blood were taken away, and a draught containing forty minims of laudanum and thirty of tincture of digitalis were given. March 2. Has passed a good night, and had some refreshing sleep; pulse less fre- quent ; tongue white, but the mouth not affected by the calomel. The leeches were re- peated, the calomel ordered every six hours, with half a grain of opium at each dose. FThe notes do not state, but probably the calomel had run off' by the bowels, and therefore tad not affected the mouth; to check the purging, I presume, the opium was added.— j. F. s.] The leeches were repeated in the evening, and the anodyne draught at bed-time. March 3. Has had a good night and five hours’ sleep; pulse continued quick; the wound was dressed, and the leeches applied to the chest, and repeated in the evening; forty drops of laudanum were given at bed-time. March 4. Has passed a good night; thinks himself better, and that he shall get better if undisturbed. The leeches repeated; the calomel only to be taken twice a day. In the evening his pulse 132; tongue dry and brown. Leeches repeated, and also tlie night draught. March 5. Has had a better night than he expected; pulse 120; he complains of soreness of his gums and mouth ; wounds in the chest rapidly granulating. Leeches repeated. March 6. Mouth very sore, specially near the fracture; pulse 134, very weak; tongue moist and less coated. The scalp wound was first dressed, and found to be united throughout; the wound in the chest going on well. The calomel and the anodyne draught continued. _ _ _ March 7. Has slept well; pulse 120, and fuller; the respiration continues inaudible at the lower part of the left lung, with dulness on percussion ; the mouth being less sore the calomel was ordered four times a day ; the leeches repeated, and anodyne draught continued. On the following evening he was ordered arrow-root and biscuit powder.