23 DISPOSITION TO. much as there must be a previous morbid or disturbed state to make such effort neces- sary.” (p. 260.) Again:—“ Inflammalion is to be considered only as a disturbed state of Mrts which require a new but salutary mode of action to restore them to that state wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary; from such a view of the subject, therefore, inflammation in itself is not to be considered as a disease, but as a salutary operation, consequent either to some violence or some disease.” (p. 249.) “ Inflammation is not only occasionally the cause of diseases, but it is often a mode of cure, since it frequently produces a resolution of indurated parts, by changing the diseased action into 1 sdutary one, if capable of resolution.” (p. 250.) “ Inflammation may first be divided into two kinds as first principles, viz., the healthy and the unhealthy. The healthy orobably consists only of one kind, not being divisible but into its different stages, and s that which will always attend a healthy constitution or part, is rather to be consi- dered as a restorative action tlian a diseased one, and would rather appear to be an effect of a stimulus than an irritation. The unhealthy admits of vast variety, (diseases »eing almost numberless,) and is that which always attends an unhealthy constitution )r part, but principally according to the constitution: however, many parts naturally aave a tendency to run into inflammations of particular kinds.* * The simple act of nflammation cannot be called specific, for it is an uniform or simple action in itself; >ut it may have peculiarities or specific actions superadded. Inflammation is either ingle or compound: it may be called single when it has only one mode of action in he part inflamed, as in its first stages; compound, when attended with another mode f action, or when it produces other effects.” (p. 251.)] 2. All organs of the body may become inflamed except the cuticle, lair, and nails. The disposition to become inflamed depends on the lumber of nerves and capillary vessels in a part. The actual seat of in- iammation is always the capillary-vascular system, and the ganglionic- lervous system, accompanying the most delicate branches of the vessels, ^hich specially presides over vegetation in the organism. [“ Inflammation,” says Hunter, “ may arise from very different causes, and often ’ithout any apparent cause, and its operations are far more extensive than simply the et of producing union in parts divided by violence.” (p. 248.) “ Susceptibility for iflammation may be said to have two causes—the one original, the other acquired, 'he original constitutes a part of the animal eeonomy, and is probably inexplicable, 'f the acquired, it is probable that elimate and modes of life may tend considerably ither to diminish or increase the suseeptibility for inflammation. The influence, how- ler, of climate may not be so great as it commonly appears to be; for it is generally ccompanied by modes of life that are not suited to others.” (p. 226.) “ Inflammation, ihen the constitution is strong, will be commonly the most manageable, for strength sssens irritability; but in every kind of constitution inflammation will be the most kanageable where the power and the action are pretty well proportioned; but, as every vrt of the body has not equal strength, these proportions cannot be the same in every rrt of the same constitution. According to this idea of strength, the following parts— z., muscles, cellular membrane, and skin,—and more so, in proportion as they are iarer to the source of the circulation—will be most manageable in inflammation and its »nsequences, because they are stronger in their powers of action than the other parts r’ ^e body. The other parts, as bone, tendon, ligament, &c., fall into an inflammation, Ihich is less in the power of art to manage, because, though the constitution is good, i it they have less powers within themselves, and therefore are attended with the feel- g of their own weakness; and I believe they affect the constitution more readily than le former, because the constitution is more affected by local disease, when the parts •ye less power within themselves of doing well; and the effects, if bad on the consti- ition, reflect a backwardness on the little powers they have. * * » The inflammation, in vital parts, will be still less manageable; for, although the parts themselves may ve pretty strong powers, yet the constitution and the natural operations of universal alth become so much affected, that no salutary effect can so readily take place, and ■erefore the disease becomes less manageable. * * * In weak constitutions, although 2 inflammation be in parts which admit of the most salutary operations, in the time the disease, and in situations the most favourable to restoration after disease, yet the •erations of inflammation are proportionably more backward as to their salutary effects such constitutions, and more or less, according to the nature of the parts affected.” P-228,9.)] ^