WITH CUBEBS. 175 solid food forbidden for some days, mucilaginous drinks taken, and then the medicine resumed in tlie same doses as before, or in smaller ones. Fi-equently this symptom is tlie consequence of gastric irritation, which may be relieved by an emetic, and then the earlier or stronger doses may be used. Some persons bear tliis remedy only when given at meal- time, or when food is taken with it. In many cases where it cannot be enduretl balsam of copaiva, according to Delpech’s experience, is useful; but, when that causes purging, cubebs must be employed. Frequently do the cubebs produce no satisfactory alteration ; but in no instance is the disease thereby rendered worse. In recent gonorrhoea the burning, the heat, the not very severe pain, and the discharge soon diminish, the latter becomes serous, and in two or three days the whole has passed off. The same occurs witli the slighter claps, even when they are of longer standing. Three doses daily of two drachms each are sufficient in these cases. More severe gonorrhccae in the second or third week, with severe pain, chordee, and so on, yield less easily and only to larger doses. Improvement also takes place very rapidly; the chordee frequently continues longest, but often subsides after a blister, when every thing else fails. Also in those cases in which the inflammation has extended to the neck of the bladder accompanied with discharge mixed with blood, with severe inflammation with swelling of the prostate glands, if the pain was exceedingly severe’ and in swelling of the testicle, this remedy was very efficient. Old and painless swellings of the testicle remaining after acute affection, which were connected with symptoms of general infection, and had even with- » stood antisyphilitic treatment, yielded to the use of the cubebs, even ^ although general syphilitic disease continued. The same occurred in the swellings of the inguinal glands, if depending on gonorrhoja. During the use of cubebs a mild diet and rest must be observed. The remedies must : be continued for at least eight days after all symptoms have disanneared. a most useful remedy also for the <leMccIecine,J,m.l827. (6) Journal nr n. (b) Journal of Graefe und Wai.’ .THER, vol V. p. 70.