FRACTUKES OF THE NECK OF THE 570 3. Boyer’s Machine.—This acts in the same manner as Desault’s ' apparatus, only the extension is kept up in a direction correspondiiijj witli j the long axis of the limb ; by means of a screw the extension may he '; increased or diminished, and the power of extension distributed over a . large j)art of the leg. IIeyne has altered this machine. ' 4. Hagedorn’s Machine consists of a strong wooden splint reaching ^ from the crest of the hip-bone to the sole of the foot, and furnished with j a transverse piece. It is applied on the side of tlie sound limb, and i fastened with padded straps around the pelvis and extremity. The foot of the sound and that of the ailing side are both fastened to the cross piece, ; and thus the injured limb preserves its proper extension. Dzoxm’s (a) , , improvement of this machine consists in the splint extending above the 1 crest of the hip bone to the side of the chest, and the bandages for ex- tending the ailing limb being applied above the ankle and below the knee. , Nicoi.Ai’s machine (6), that of Klein (c), and that of Gibson (</), of Beck (e), SchI'b- MAYER (/), and of Weckeut (gr), are all to be considered as modifications of Hagedobn’s machine. 677. Various plans have been attempted to keep the limb in the bent position. 1. By Sauter’s (/i) Suspensory Machine. The pelvis is thereby fixed; , the tubercle of the haunch-bone is the special point for counter-extension; the extension is made from the foot with a long pad connected to the foot- board. 2. After the setting of the fracture is completed, both feet are to be bound together, for which purpose a bandage is to be applied spirally, from the instep to the knee ; a firm pillow is then to be put under the knee so as to bend the thigh at the knee and hip-joint, and the spiral turns are to be con- tinued to the upper third of the thigh. The upper part of the body should be raised rather high, and inclined forwards (Mursinna.) Or a firm pillow may be put into the ham of the limb, bent at the hip and knee joints, which is to be kept in this position by a folded cloth carried over the lower part of tlie thigh and leg, and fastened on both sides to the bed. (DuruYTREN, Richerand.) 3. A. Cooper, in fracture without the capsular ligament, keeps the limb half bent, putting it upon a wooden machine, consisting of two pieces of board fastened together at an angle, and corresponding with the bend of the knee-joint. A long splint, laid upon the outside of the thigh, is to be fastened by straps on the side of the great trochanter, and buckled on above the knee, and around the pelvis. In fracture ivithin the capsule, a pillow should be laid beneath the whole length of the ailing limb, and a well-rolled pad in the bend of the knee-joint, and in this manner the foot kept extended from ten to fourteen days, till the pain and inflammation l have passed by. Then the patient should get up daily, and sit on a high i stool, in order to diminish the painfulness in bending the limb. After j some days he may go on crutches, subsequently with a stick, and in a few i months he is generally capable of using his foot, without any further sup- I (a) Beitrage zur ervollkommnung der Heilkunde, part i. HaUe, 1816. 8vo.; with plates. (b) Journal fiir Chirurgie und Aiigenheilkundo von V. Gbaefe und von Waltheb, vol. iii. part ii. p. 260.pl. ii.f. 1-9. (c) Ibid., vol. iv part i. p. 17; pi. i. f. 1-6. (d) Ibid., p. 189. pi. i. f. 7-13. \e) Fkobiep'b Chirurg. Kuplert., pi. 350, f. 7. (/) Ibid., pi. aiO. f. 2-6. (</■) Ibid., pi. 319. _ ! (A) Anweisung die Beinbruche dcr (iliedmai^ sen, vorzuglichdiecomplicirten und den Schenkel- halsbrucb.nacli einer neuen, leichtcn, einfachcn una wohlfeilen .Mcthorle olmc Scliicncn siclier und bcqiium zu heilcn. Constant., 1812; with pUW*.