2G8 TREATMENT OF ABSCESS OF THE IIIP-JOINT. fication and assimilation, and stoppage of the bowels, for which mild purgative remedies of various kinds, warm baths, and, locally, warm poultices must be used; 2nd, muscular weakness, —for which there should be advised, as most efficient, rubbing in volatile ointments, blisters, plasters of tartar emetie, dry cupping, stimulating baths, and steam of hot water, moxas, and actual cautery applied superficially only. 246. If the head of tlie thigh-bone become displaced, and the di.sea.se arrested, an artificial joint may be produced by continued rest; and when the patient begins to walk, he must support the foot as much In po.s- sible, at first with crutches, and afterwards with a high shoe correspond- ing to the shortening of the extremity. The great degree of lameness, and, in children especially, the frequent contraction of the thigh, have led some to attempt the reduction of the luxation ; and the results which have thereby been obtained, are well suited to determine on careful attempts at re<lue- tion, and then to keep the limb in a straight position, which is best done with Hagedorn’s apparatus for fracture of the neck of the thigh bone. If the reduction cannot be effected, we may attempt to keep the limb in its proper place, and the head of the bone in the neighbourhood of the socket, by gentle, gradually increased, and continued extension, by means of the apparatus just mentioned, or of some other kind, and so decidedly improve the direction and length of the limb in the course of the cure. Owing to the nature of the circumstances under which the reduction is here attempted, it frequently does not succeed; and, indeed, when not employed with the greatest cir- cumspection, very serious consequences may ensue. But, upon these gronnds, to reject these experiments, and to consider their success impossible, (Petit, Caulises, and others,) or to imagine that if they actually succeed, the head of the thigh-bone cannot be fixed in the hip-socket, is opposed, according to Jaiger (a), to all the nnder-mentioned observations. Berdot (t) reduced, by pressure, the head of the thigh-bone, dislocated upwards; Hagen (c), by means of Kavaton’s reductor. Ficher (d) and Thilenius (e) relate similar cases. Mozilewsry (/) undertook the replacement thrice with success; in the first case he succeeded in a luxation of several inches, and of several weeks’ stand- ing, without difficulty, but it was necessary to maintain it by constant pressure ; in the second, it was not until after nine months’, and, in the third, after five weeks’, continued extension. Schneider (g) replaced the head of the thigh-bone, but it was alwa)s again dislocated, in spite of the splint which he applied. B. Heine (/i) employed con- tinued and gradually increased extension for a year, in a girl eleven years old, who had a spontaneous luxation of eight years’ standing, with a shortening of three inches, and a considerable lateral curvature of the spine ; the head of the thigh-bone not only retained its place in the joint, but the thigh moved as perfectly as the other, so that the girl could dance. F. Humbert and M. N. Jacquier (f) profess, by means of a proper apparatus, to give to the short limb similar length with the healthy one, to restore the head of the bone to the socket, and to confine it there till, by increased muscular energj', tlie neces- sary connexion and firmness are attained. Textor’s observation of a case of long standing dislocation of the head of the bone, being driven back into the joint by a fall ujKm the rump, is extremely interesting: this he himself related to me. Volpi, Schreceb, VON Winter, Harless (k), and Fricke (Z), have recommended gentle and continued ex- tension, with proper fixing of the limb. There would be always decided advantage if, in cases in which replacement does not succeed, the head of the thigh-bone were brought down from the back of the hip-bone into the ischiatic pit, and there fixed. J. Heine (m) has communicated most interesting and successful observations upon four cases in which he happily eflected the reduction with permanent success. In one case he had the oppor- (i) Essai et Obsemitions sur la maniere de duirc les Luxations spontanecs ou symptomatiquea de I’Articulation llio-fcmorale, mcthoue applicable mix Luxations ancicnncs par cause cxterne. Paris, 183a. Atlas folio. in) As above, p. 597. bj Act. llelvet., vol. iv. p. 236. cj Walimetimungen. Mietau, 1772. d) Salzb. Med.-Cliir. Zeitung, 1807, vol. iv. p. 3»1. (t) IIufei.and’s Journal, 1816, May, p. 102. (/) Sohbeoer; in IIokn's Archiv., 1817, vol. i p. 316. (fl) Chirurgisclie Gescliichtcn, Chemnitz, 1763, vol. )i. p. 77. (A) J.iEOEU, above cited. (i) Jahrb.derdeutschcn Medicin,vol. iii. parti. (/) Ftinftcr llericht ulier die Verwaltung des allg. Krankenhausscs zu Hamburg. (m) Ueberspontane iindcongcnitaleLuxationen, II. s. \v. Stuttgart, 1842. I I J 3 V-