OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 791 3( 1053. Though dislocations of the elbow-joint have great disposition to jji'come irreducible, yet if severe inflammation have come on, reduction {, :iist not be undertaken till that has been removed. Before attempting ^ e retluction of an old dislocation, repeated motions of the fore-arm are j be made for several days previously. If repeated attempts do not suc- ^ -ed, violent extension must be abstained from, because otherwise severe iiflammation is to be feared. I; In dislocation of the elbow-joint forwards, which can only occur with fracture of i olechranon, the same treatment must be adopted as in that fracture, with simultaneous j tiphlogistic remedies. ii 1054. The dislocation backwards of the spoke-bone is the most common, ii; it occurs more rarely in adults, than in young persons, in whom it does I ot take place at once; but by the habit of pulling the child by the hand I -considerable relaxation of the articular connexions of the spoke-bone is •■oduced, which is often manifested by great projection of its end, and iinful swelling of its joint, and if the violence be persisted in, dislocation ■ tlie radius backwards is produced. At the moment when the disloca- ‘ on occurs the patient feels severe pain, the arm is bent, and the hand ■one; supination is impossible and increases the pain ; the hand and ' agers are moderately bent; the upper end of the bone forms a distinct ■•ojection. 1055. The dislocation forwards of the upper end of the spohe-bone, is 6 e consequence of violent supination. The fore-arm is slightly bent, it cannot be brought to a right angle with the upper arm ; if the fore-arm ! suddenly bent, the head of the bone strikes against the front of the ipper-arm-bone, by which the flexion is suddenly stopped. The hand is •one, but can be brought again perfectly into pronation and supination, though pronation is nearly complete. The head of the spoke-bone can :: felt, especially in rotation, which together with the continued flexion of e fore-arm are the most decided characters. IBoyer doubts the possibility of dislocation forwards without fracture at the same me ; in which case the supination necessary to produce this dislocation is prevented by e lesser head of the upper-arm-bone, which thrusts violently against the head of the loke-bone. This opinion, however, is contradicted by foreign and by my own expe- ence. A. Cooper (a) has seen the dislocation of the spoke-bone forwards six times; have seen it twice, and once as an old dislocation in a corpse. The spoke-bone sepa- ■tes from the cubit, at its connexion with the coronoid process, and its head is drawn .ick into the hollow above the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, and upon the coro- :>id process of the cubit. Examination shows the head of the spoke-bone drawn up ■to the cavity above the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, the cubit in its natural tace ; the coronary ligament of the spoke-bone, the chorda transversalis, the front of the . psular ligament and the interosseous membrane are partially torn, and in conse- •lence of the tearing of the latter the separation of both bones is produced. IRouyer (6), Villaume(c), and Gerdy (d) have also seen dislocation of the upper ds of the spoke-bone forwards ; B. Cooper (e) noticed it once with fracture of the iner condyle of the upper arm, and once with a fracture of the spoke-bone an inch and ■half from its head. •Simultaneous dislocation of the spoke-bone forwards and of the .cubit backwards, have •en noticed by Bulley (/) and by Vignolo (p). A longitudinal dislocation of the spoke-bone, in which the head was displaced laterally id above, over the outer condyle of the upper-arm-bone, was seen by Adams (/i). (а) Above cited, p. 474. (б) Journal General de Mcdecine, April, 1818. (c) Frobiep’s Notizen, March, 1828, No. 429. (d) Archives Gcneralcs de Medecine, March, (e) Above cited, p. 457. (/) I’rov. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1841. (g) llevue Medicate, 1841. (A) Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 1840,