374 PROPOSED INTERNAL TREATMENT OF HYDROPHOBIA. of mind, sliced out the bite wound with a razor, and then applied a heated table-knife over the bleeding wound to cauterize it; and he had the happiness of saving his child from this most dreadful disease. I mention this case, in liope that should this Ixjok fall into the hands of unprofessional persons, they may see how they may be able to help themselves, or those dear to them, when medical aid is not at hand. ^ Another very important point to be borne in mind is, that the scar should be always removed, whenever the patient informs his medical attendant that he has been bitten by a suspicious animal. That the poi.son often remains quiet in the part beneath the sew for w'eeks anil months, and that when the disease is about setting in, the scar and iu immediate neighbourhood become irritable and inflamed, and that the scar opens and discharges, and speedily after the hydrophobic symptoms appear, has been so frequently observed as to be past all doubt. The scar should therefore be cut out, and as much of ! the surrounding and subjacent parts removed with it as the surgeon may judge new*. ^ sary, at any time before it has begun to be irritable, or before the. symptoms appear. Some persons, indeed, advise that it should be cut out even after the disease has com^ ■ menced. This practice may certainly be permitted, but I fear the probability of l>ene8t t from it is but little.—J. F. S.] 367. Besides this local treatment, many remedies are advised for internal ! use in order to prevent the outbreak of the hydrophobia. Hereto belong ; a diaphoretic condition, the internal use of cantharides, of belladonna, of f mercury to salivation, of camplior, of oil beetles, (meloe proscarahcBus,) of i liquor am?no?iics, free rubbing in olive oil and so on. The use of mercury to > salivation seems most to be relied on (a), and of cantharides or belladonna ij from one or more grains, gradually increasing the dose till traces of their ij narcotic effect are produced {b). I Wendt (c) recommends especially the following mode of treatment proposed by Dr.; Kruttge ; wash the wound with a sponge soaked in lukewarm water, fill it entirely with powdered cantharides, and over this a plaster of the same extending half an inch beyond the wound ; half a grain to a grain of ealomel every four hours and also at night; rubbing in mereurial ointment to a scruple or half a drachm morning and even- ing, the first time upon the wound, afterwards upon the other limbs. The vesicafionsos produced by the blister-plaster are to be cut away with scissors, the foul powder to be ,>* removed, and whether the wound be superficial or deep, the powder is to be strewed on < it afresh or the part deprived of its cuticle bound up in emp. cantliar.; this is to be» continued six weeks, attention being paid to the irritability of the patient. The calomel d and rubbing in are to be continued till salivation and swelling of the gums are produced, si and the daily loss of a pint of spittle; then no more ointment is to be rubbed in, and > enough calomel only is to be given to keep up a sufficient salivation. After six weeks s a pea issue is to be established. Of 184 persons bitten only two died some weeks after i of hydrophobia. The root of the belladonna has been of late espeeially reeommended by Brera and VON ScHALDEiN. Brera (rf) employs the belladonna in the largest doses of three drachms i every twenty-four hours; and every patient uses about eight ounces and sometimes-' more; at the same time calomel or sublimate are employed internally, aud mer- curial friction externally. Von Sciiallein (e) chooses scarification of the wound, bleeding, deep burning with actual cautery, and binding up with an ointment composed- of twelve grains of camphor, two scruples of oil of turpentine, two ounces of basiheon ointment, eight grains of red precipitate, and four scruples of powdered cantharides If the actual cautery cannot be perfectly' applied, the wound, after having beeu scarifier- and let bleed, must be burnt with butyr of antimony, which is to be repeated after tv< ■ hours, and then bound up with ointment, which must be repeated morning and eveninj to the fourteenth day. The same treatment must be employed if the wound be oulj (а) Waltiier, uber die Ileilkraft des Queck- silbersbei dem Starrkrampfe und nach dem tollen Hiindsbisse; in liis Abhandlungen aus dem Cie* biete der praktiMchen .Vledecin, l>ejJonderi der Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, l^ndshut, 1810. vol. i. p. (б) MOi^cir, Praktische Abhandlung von der und sie zu heilen. llaireuth, 8vo, (fj) Darstelliing einer zweckiUMSsigtMi und durch die lirfahrung erprobten Methode zur Vurhutung der Wasserscheu nach dem Bisae eines tollfl Hundes. Breslau, 1824. 8vo. (d) Commentario clinico per la cura dell Wrr fobia ; in Mem. della Soc. Ital, delle Scienie dente in Modena, vol. xviii. Also in Omopki, ah nali Universali, vol. xix. p. (k). , (e) Anweisung der Hundswuth lange lirftihrung erprobte WeNoi sicher vorzuOt Heliadonna und ihrer Anwrndung, besomlers _ Verbannung und llcilung der Hundswuth. zi*