[710] II.—OF FISTULAS. {Fistula, Lat.; Fistdn, Germ. ■, Fistules,Fr.') 898. Unnatural, old apertures, l)y whicli fluids are emptied from anyj j cavity or duct externally, or into anotlier cavity, are called Fistulcu.' By this definition fistulas are distinguislied from fistulous sores. [“ '1 he term ‘ fistula’ gives a very inadequate notion of tlie disease,” observes John \ | Hunter, “ the fistulous canal being only the sign of the disease,—the means of con- f veying a fluid or extraneous matter to the surface. A fistula is the consequence of the [ powers of a part not being able to remove the original cause, so that the original cause ■ | and some of its effects remain.” (p. 577.)] j 899. The causes of fistulas, are either injuries, by external violence, of f f the cavities in which the fluids are collected, or of the ducts by which , ^ they are discharged, if they be not cured by quick union, or stopping ; ^ up of the ducts, by which the fluids collected in large quantities produce r t tearing, inflammation, suppuration, and mortification, causing extrava.sa- ■ | tion of the fluid, and the cellular tissue, and an unnatural opening for its ' { escape; or inflammation and ulceration on or in the walls of the cavities - ‘ and ducts, by which the latter are destroyed. Fistulas, if not consequent : t on injury, usually commence with abscess, which, on bursting, discharges - \ pus of different kinds, by one or several apertures, communicating either r. j directly with the cavities, or running in various turns and windings. . j If the fistulous passage be very short, it diminishes in size, as the inflam- - t mation lessens, the external opening contracts, and its edges scar, but : t without closing. If the fistulous canal be longer, the external opening ; ; contracts, is surrounded by a little fungous wall, Avhich presents in its • j middle a narrow and often scarcely observable opening. By the conti- ■ | nuance of the inflammation, to a certain degree, in the whole canal, and ! t in the neighbouring parts, the whole internal lining of the canal is gra- • i dually converted into a mucous tissue, distinguished only from true • j mucous membrane, by the absence of mucous glands, and of the epider- f moidal covering, and itself prevents the healing of the canal. But, for ' the most part, in long continued fistulas, the neighbouring parts become hardened, and form, more or less, grayish white, thick hard masses, ^.(^1 {callosities,) between which the fistulas run. The same changes also ?i j occur in fistulous passages {par. 65.) | [“ The causes of fistula,” says Hunter, “ are various, but may be divided into two • | classesfirst, the obstruction of the passage of some natural secretion, as fistula of the I parotid gland; or of the canal for the passage of extraneous matter, as the intestines i being strangulated, so as to mortify, or being wounded; but all obliterations of the 1 ducts, where the fluids make a new passage, will not be termed secondli/, the i formation of pus or extraneous matter in a part requiring a passage, as in fistula in on«i 't fistula in the joints, and fistula from diseased bone.” [It will be obser\'ed that this U second class of fistulas has not been enumerated by Chelius, although, however, he .[ subsequently treats of them.—j. f. s.] “ We shall consider the causes of fistulas,—ls<. The obliteration of ducts, or canals, is the first cause. This arises from obstruction of the natural passages, in consequence of which a new one is formed for the passage of the natural secretion. These obliterations often arise from a thickening of the sides of ■ the ducts, as in tlie urethra, nasal duct, &c., from inflammation; sometimes from the 11 venereal disease, or scrofula; and sometimes from accident, as in the parotid duct These j ■. obliterations are often very troublesome, obstructing the evacuation of the natural secretions, 11 which is very teasing to the part,,and when complete is very serious in its consequences. ; In most there is a new passage when complete, which is made by inflammation and ul- : ceration; these new passages are called fistulous; the discharge is tlie natural secretion, ( mixed with the pus from the inflamed vessels of the sides of the passage. If this new ’ passage answers all the purposes of the original one, it cannot well be called fistulous; • when from a mortified or wounded intestine, it is called an artificial anus; when in t^ > pennaum, it is for the passage of the urine. There are often accumulations of secreted i