195 CAUSES—TREATMENT. severity; its progress towards maturation is generally slow, and seldom completed* When the sordid matter it contains is evacuated, the nail is generally found to be loose, and a very foul, but exquisitely sensible ulcer, is exposed; considei*able sloughs of cellu- lar membrane, &c., are frequently exfoliated, so that the cavity of the sore is often very deep. The discoloured and tumid state of the skin commonly extends along the finger, considerably beyond tlie margin of the ulcer; in such cases, the integuments that en- velop the finger become remarkably tliickened, and the cellular membrane so firmly con- densed as not to permit the skin to glide over the subjacent parts. The bone is not usually found in a carious state. This species of paronychia is more frequently seen among the lower class of people, when they labour under lues venerea, than in the higher ranks of life. It does not appear to be connected with any particular state of the disease, nor is it confined to one sex more than the other. In the Lock Hospital it occurs in the proportion of about one patient in five hundred.” (pp. 85-7.) It is evident, however, that Pearson is not quite satisfied as to the actual nature of this disease, which seems more to resemble onychia maligna than any other form of whitlow; for he proceeds:—■ “ When 1 adopt the name of venereal paronychia, it is not with the design of implying that this is a true venereal abscess, containing a fluid which is capable of communicating syphilis to a sound person. Its progress and cure seem to be unconnected with the increased or diminished action of the venereal poison in the constitution, and to be also uninfluenced by the operation of mercury. I consider the venereal disease as a remote cause which gives occasion to the appearance of this, as well as several other diseases, that are widely different from its own specific nature.” (p. 88.)] 186. The causes of whitlow are in many cases unknown; it is often, however, very common at certain periods. Sometimes a general cause, as gout, and rheumatism, seems to give rise to it; but, in most cases, the cause is local, as contusion, sudden warming of the fingers after they have been chilled, injury with fine puncturing instruments, from splinters, and so on. To these causes Garengeot adds “ the excrescences (or rather little shreds) which form about the nails, and are commonly known as hagnails.” And he observes, “ that workwomen using the needle are most subject to whitlow; though, on the other hand, they protect themselves by immediately sucking their finger, thus imitating the suckers of wounds, or certain irregular practitioners; because, by this proceeding they abstract the blood which escapes from the little vessels opened by the sharp instrument, and thus prevent any deposit, and consequently also abscess.” (pp. 287, 8.) Another very com- mon cause of whitlow is the impure soda often used by laundresses in washing linen, which often either irritates any small scratch or crack there may be in the skin of the ^ger, or even first produces a cleft which presents the appearance of a knife having been drawn through the cuticle down to the cutis, and then, irritating the latter, sets up considerable inflammation in the shape of whitlow.—j. f. s. Hunter takes the whitlow as an example of “the ulcerative process having no power over the cuticle, so that when the matter has got to that part it stops, and cannot make Its way through till the cuticle bursts by distension.” (p. 469.)] 187. The treatment of whitlow varies according to its difierent forms. In the ^rst form, it may often be at the very onset dispersed by cold applications. If pus be formed, it must be soon evacuated, that it may not spr^d beneath the nail. If the nail, however, be loosened, it must be partially removed with the scissors, and a piece of linen spread with cerate must be laid between the edge of the nail and the soft parts, in order to prevent the irritation of tlie latter. If pus be collected beneath tne nail the latter must be scraped thin, so that it may be pierced with he bistoury, and the pus allowed to escape; or, if the nail be somewhat Generally, as it separates a new nail grows; t should be covered with wax, to give it a good shape. sJg^Tf°whTuow^S?p’^*^P"®^ 5n the early pain and redurin^’tbS Vjove very serviceable in all cases, by abating rprocure reXIoJ^ seldom sufficien® m procure resolution, but this has often been accomplished by the early and repeated o 2