SUPPURATION. 35 covering the abscess is destroyed, depends on accidental circumstances— in the great distension of the cellular tissue and skin, or in the suppura- tion, from general or local mischief, passing into Ulceration ( Versch- tvarioig, Germ.; Ulceration, Fr.) These remnants of destroyed cellular tissue must not be confounded with the cores {Eiterpropfropfen, Germ.) so called sloughs, which are found in the midst of the inflamed cellular tissue, at the commencement of suppuration, in the form of white jelly- like semi-transparent stringy flocks, which have no trace of organization, are at first firmly connected with the surrounding cellular tissue, but sub- sequently are thrown out with the pus. These cores are tough concre- tions of coagulated albumen. The various opinions relating to the formation of pus may be arranged in two classes:—1. It was supposed that pus was formed and secreted within the vessels of inflamed organs by the peculiar activity of the former. 2. That pus was produced externally to the vessels of the inflamed organs, either in the solid parts in a state of inflammation, or in the effused fluids undergoing a change similar to that of fermenta- tion or putrefaction. According to the former opinion suppuration must be considered as a vital, according to the latter as a chemical, process. The formation of pus as a secretive process first published by Simpson (a), more fully discussed by De Haen (1756,) and by Morgan (6), was specially and more accurately proved by Hunter, by Brugmans (c), and by Pinel. Upon the other supposition Boerhaave ascribed the formation of pus to the dissolving of the hard parts and the changes which take place in the efiused blood ; Bell and others to the putrefaction of the serum ; Gotter and Quesnay, to the change in the coagulable lymph; Hoffman and Grashuis, to the decay of the fat; and Stewart to putrefaction of the chyle. The process of the pus formation and the nature of pus, besides the above-mentioned writers, most meritoriously occupied Pearson (d), Hewson (e), E. Home (/), Berze- I LIUS (jf), Gruithuisen (h), and have been recently examined with the greatest care; 1 Fischer (t) has furnished observations on its chemical composition; Donne (K), (Gluge(Z), and Vai,entin (m) have enriched our knowledge of its microscopic ele- :meats; Guterbock (n), Wood (o), Bonnet (^), and Mandt (g) have, in a chemical cand microscopical view, furnished correct observations, which Vogel (r) for the most [part arranged and increased with the results of his own observation. Compare also ’ Vogel (s) and E. V. Bibra (<). 10. The transition of inflammation into suppuration is probable—when The inflammation is active and quickly reaches an acute stage ; when the :pain is severe, the distension and swelling are considerable, the inflamed part of a lax character, and surrounded with much cellular tissue (1). If the inflammation continue longer than usual, without showing critical move- ments, if the pain becomes throbbing, the redness and swelling diminish without entirely disappearing, the swelling becomes softer, and the patient has a shiver, then the formation of pus has commenced ; the swelling be- comes still softer, is elevated in the middle, and sunk at its circumference. (nl Disput. de re Medicfi, 1722. (6) Tentamen Medicum de Purls confectione. •Edinb, 1756. Sr) Diss. de Puogeni£. Groenig. 1785. d) Observations and Experiments on Pus, in Phil. Trans. 1810, p. 294. (e) In liis Experimental Inquiries, Part the '^econd, containing a description of tlie Lympliatic ; System, &c., p. 117. London, 1774. 8vo. (/) A Dissertation on the Properties of Pus. Lour on. 178S. 4to. (17) Article “ Pus,” in his Traite de Chimie, •raduit par M. Esslinoeh sur des Manuscrits nMits de I’Auteur et sur la demiire edition Mlemande, vol. vii. p. 635. Paris, 1S33. bvo. [ (A) Naturhistorische Untersuchungen Tiber den I tlnterschicd zwischen Eiter und Schleim, Mun- I hen,1809. I (t) De Puris indole ej usque a pituitfi discer- I lendi Methodis. Dorpat. 1836. (A) Archives generales de Medecine. 1837, Aout. (l) Caspeh’s Wochenschrift. 1843. (m) Kepertorium fur Anatomie und Physio- logie, 1837. Part ii. p. 197. (n) De Pure et Granulatione. Berol., 1837. (u) De Puris naturaetformatione. Berol., 1837. (p) Mcmoire sur la composition et I'absorption du Pus; in Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1837. No. 38. (y) Ueher den Eiter, den Schleim, und die ver- schiedenen Ergusse; in Schmidt’s Jahrbucher, 1838, No. 19, p. 274. (r) Physiologisch - pathologische Untersuchun- gen Tiber Eiter, Eiterung, und dio damit ver- wandten Vorgange. Erlangen, 1808. (s) In Waoneh’s Ilandwvrterbuch der Physio- logie, etc. (/) Uhemischo Untersuchungen Tiber vcrschie- denc Eiterarten und einigo andore krankhafte Substanzen. Berlin, 1842. D 2