732 RECTAL FISTULA. (2) Brodie observos, that “ in a very few cases erysipelas appears’ to extend no the mucous membrane of the rectum into the other parts of the intestine ; and this isg ' most formidable disease indeed. Thesymptomsare very peculiar, and as far as 1 know • are not described by writers. The pulse becomes very rapid and at the same time weak' ■ i then it is irregular and intermitting; the abdomen is tympanitic in consequence of the • i intestines being distended with air; hiccough takes place; there is a great prostratioilii i of strength, and the patient often dies in the course of tliree or four days, sometimei i i sooner. * * * This internal erysipelas, however, is not necessarily fatal. Iliaveknown ' more than one case in which it manifestly occurred, but without the usual prostration f of strength, and the patient recovered. When I have met with a case of this kind, I I could never entertain a doubt as to the medical treatment which should be emploj^.: , It is sufficiently indicated by the symptoms; and for the most part, the great failure of ' the vital powers demands the free exhibition of cordials and stimulants.” (p. 185-86.)] 935. The ligature of a rectal fistula {Ligatura Fistulce Am) consists in t E tying togetlier the whole wall, separating the rectum from the fistula, with . ^ a thread which, by gradual tightening, cuts it tlirough ; in this case as the t fistulous wall is divided, the part cut through, heals from above down- s wards. The proceeding in tying the rectal fistula varies according to its - i seat and condition. The best materials for the ligature are several hem- - ; pen or silken threads put together, or a silken loop-shaped thread, and the I silver or leaden thread recommended by many persons. : I [Luke, of the London Hospital (n), during the course of the present year has advised^; ? the treatment ijf fistula in ano, by tying it with a thread, and says :—‘‘ The advantagt* » I of this method over that by the knife, are; first, the shorter period which usually elapses » I before the final cure; second, the less pain which is felt during the treatment; third, | the absence of the dread which the knife generally inspires, and the consequent in- I ducement which it offers to the patient to submit to effective curative treatment; and t)i i lastly, the avoidance of all haemorrhage. '■ | The treatment is to be conducted in the following manner:—an eyed-probe, armed I | with dentist’s silk, is introduced through the fistula into the rectum, from whence the t I silk is withdrawn through the anus, by means of a catch-spring, introduced into the • | rectum upon the finger of the operator. The parts to be divided are then inclosed S i B between the two extremities of the ligature, to which a small fisttila-tourniquet is sub- «i I sequently attached, by passing them through holes provided for the purpose. The rf! ^ requisite amount of tension is maintained by a screw. Care must be taken that the >' i ligature be not so tight, as to cause more than slight uneasiness. After the lapse of two t i or three days, ulceration of the inclosed part commences and the tourniquet becomes ; loosened, indicating the necessity of the ligature being made tighter.” (p. 221.) Dr. Nelken (b) has proposed for this operation “ an instrument composed, first, of ' a rod about eleven and a half inches in length, the upper third of which is divided " i into four equal parts, united to each other by hinges so arranged that they can be closed i only in one direction, the last being furnished with a knot and a hole to pass the lig*- : ture, and second, of a tube, through which the former is passed when threaded. The finger being placed in the rectum, the apparatus thus prepared, is passed upwards into the fistula until the extremity reaches the finger, the tube is then withdrawn to an extent equal to one of the four divisions of the rod; the whole is next pushed forward^ the finger in the rectum causing the rod to bend downwards as it penetrates into the intestine ; the same manoeuvre is repeated until the ligature appears at the anus, when the Surgeon seizes it, and terminates the operation.” (p. 403.) Although Luke mentions nine cases in which he had in this way successfully tied | anal fistula, I must confess I should not feel disposed to adopt it unless the patient would | not submit to the knife, which I am quite sure produces a cure quite as quickly and f with less inconvenience; for after the inflammation excited by the fresh cut suicides, there is scarcely any pain during the two or three weeks, usually necessary for healing the wound.—J. F. S.] 936. In complete rectal fistula, of which the internal opening is not very high, a flexible leaden probe should be introduced through the canal of the fistula into the rectum, which is tlien with the forefinger of the left hand already in the gut to be drawn out at the anus and a thread passed (a) Lancet, vol. i. 1815, New Scries. (!>) Medical Times, vol. xi. 1S45.