98 TREATMENT OF HOSPITAL GANGRENE. mended. If the s\irface of the wound do not improve in appearance, its entire extent should be touched with nitrate of silver, or conical pieces of caustic laid in the viscid mass. But, under these circumstances, the most important remedy is the free application of the actual cautery to the whole surface of the ulcerated part. The slough is to be covered with powdered bark and turpentine or some stimulating salve, and when the slough has separated, tlie appearance of the wound must determine whether the ap- plication of the cautery is to be repeated or not. Besides these means, the following may also be recommended ; decoction of bark, diluted mineral acids, especially hydrochloric acid, yeast poultices, spirituous lotions, brandy and myrrh, aloes and camphor, hydrochlorate of am- monia with water and vinegar, spir. terebinth, ung. styrac. and Egyptia- cum, balsam of copaiva, solutions of bichloride of mercury and nitrate of silver, butyr of antimony, pyroligneous acid, lemon juice and so on. 80. General treatment, suited to the different condition of the patient, must also be connected with this local treatment. At the onset, if symptoms of irritation and active febrile excitement are present, acid drinks, espe- cially dilute mineral acids, are serviceable ; in impurities of the stomach, emetics; in great weakness, bark and other tonic remedies; only in rare cases is a strict antiphilogistic plan of treatment called for. The diet must of course correspond with the general treatment, and care should be taken for purity of air and keeping the patient apart from others. On hospital gangrene compare PoDTEAU, (Euvres Posthumes, vol. iii. 1783. 8vo. Gillespie, Leon, Observations on the Putrid Ulcer; in London Medical Journal vol. vi. p. 373. 1785. Dussaussoy, Sur la Gangrene des Hopitaux. Geneve, 1787. 8vo. Blane, G., M.D., gives an account of this gangrene, by the name of Malignant Ulcer, in his Diseases of Seamen, p. 502, 3rd Edit., London, 1799. Trotter, M.D., describes it by the same title in his Medicina Nautica, vol. ii. p. 170 ; vol. iii. p. 467. Bell, John, Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 136. Leslie, De Gangraena Contagiosa. Edinburgh, 1805. Johnson, Charles, M.D., de Gangrsena Contagiosfi, Nosocomiale. Edinburgh, 1805. Thomson, John, in his Lectures on Inflammation, p. 456. Renard, iiber den Hospitalbrand. Mairz, 1815. 8vo. Gerson, iiber den Hospitalbrand, nach eigenen Erfahmngen. Hamburg, 1817. 8vo. H. Blackadder, Observations on Phagedaena Gangrsenosa. Edinburgh, 1818. 8vo. W. Werneck, kurzegefasste Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Natur, der Entstehung, der : Verhutung und Heilung des Hospitalbrandes. Salzburg, 1820. Large 8vo. Brauer, Observationes qumdam de GangrmnS, Nosocomiali, quse anno hujus smculi XIV. Lipsim inter milites variamm nationum grassata esL Lipsias, 1820. Alexander, iiber den Hospitalbrand; in Hippocrates Magazin von Sander und ( Waepter, vol. V. p. 1—220. 5 Delpech, Clinique Chirurgicale de Montpellier, vol. i. p. 78. | Boggie, in the Transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, vol. iii.. p. 1. 1828. Oi.i-rviER, A. F., Traitd experimental du Typhus Traumatique, Gangrene ou Pourri- ture des hopitaux. Paris, 1822. 8vo.