802 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION advisable to bind tlie thighs together above tlie knees, and to keep tl,e , patient at rest, and on his back in bed. He is to be treated generally and j locally on the antiphlogistic jdan, according to circumstances, and allowed « to get \ip and walk, when the pain has entirely ceased, which usually t happens towards the twenty-fifth or thirtieth day. 1080. Congenital dislocation of the thigh, outwards and upwards, into the external iliac pit, (^Luxatio Femoris congenita^ mentioned formerly * by Hippocrates, and more perfectly described by Pallett’a (a), wag : first carefully described by Dupuytren (i), and I have, up to the present; time, had opportunity, in more cases, to convince myself of the correct- ness of his description. It is distinguished from all other dislocations, (;spe-»- ciallyfrom spontaneous dislocation, in that, 1, it ordinarily occurs in lx)th i hips; of the nine cases, however, which I have seen, in four the disloca- . tion was only on one side (c) ; 2, it is not preceded by any symptoms of coxalgy ; and 3, it is usually first noticed in the first attempts the child • makes to learn to walk, and if the attempt be continued, till the movements.' become wearisome. The limb in this dislocation is shortened, the headuj of the thigh-bone is upwards and outwards, the great <roc/mw<er projects;-: almost all the muscles of the upper part of the thigh are contracted to the > iliac crest, where they produce, around the head of the bone, a sort of cone, > the base of which is formed by the hip-bone, and its point directed towards: the great trochanter; the tuberosity of the haunch-bone is freed from its t muscles, and is almost completely uncovered; the limb is rotated inwards, the heel and the bend of the knee stand outwards, and the point of tin f toe and the knee inwards ; the thighs are directed obliquely from aliovi , downwards, and from without inwards, and this obliquity becomes greater, the older is the patient and the broader the pelvis ; hence arises the disptHi) sition of the thighs to cross each other below; the upper inner part of the t thigh forms where it is connected with the pelvis, a sharp inward pro- jecting angle ; the whole limb wastes, especially at the upper part. Th( j motions of the limb are very much restricted, especially abduction and i rotation; the lower limbs are very backward in proportion to the per- fectly developed upper parts of the body, which is the more remarkabk | as the pelvis is very broad, and not interfered with in its development. ) The upper part of the body inclines very much backwards; on the otha i hand, the lumbar project much forward, the^e/^•^^ rests nearly hon-: zontally upon the thigh-bones, and these persons touch the ground almosi; alone with the tips of their feet. AVhen walking, they raise themselves or > the tips of their feet, bend the upper part of the body very much towardsri that limb which still supports the weight of the body, raise the other fool>) from the ground, and bring, with difficulty, the latter from one side to th* 1 In this case, it is to be observed, that on the side supporting tlitl other. weight of the body, the head of the thigii-bone rises up into the iliac p>f and the pelvis descends, whilst, on tlie other side, the displacement of tm bone is lessened. In running and leaping, which for such persons is laborious, these appearances diminish from the energy of the museuW contraction. When tlie person lies horizontally on his back, the j limbs may, by pulling and tlirusting down, be lengthened and shorten (a^ Exercitationes Patliolo^ico!, p. 88. (^6) In Uepertoire gcncrale d’Anatomic et do Vhysiologie ratliolocique, vol. ii. trime^tre in. p. 151. FuoniKp's Notizen, No. 340, p. 153, and fchirurg. Kupfertofcln, pi. dxxx. CaillaudBil- LONiXRE, sur les Luxations originelles ou conp^** i tales du Femur. Faris, 1828. • (c) On the Hip; noticed in Uepertoire ! d'Aiiatomic et de Fhvsiologie Chirurgicalcs, j . 22. trimestre iii. p.