657 SYPHILIS WITH MEKCURY. .• i.- i. ^ Vii7 comp within inv recollection, and even to a degree within Ihey’StriMhere^ no doubt very sufficient ground for not following the practice of our nredecessors. But it would be evidently most injudicious to reject tho aid of of .ho ?, t,'' to'l‘^io”S Xa bv he pS, nor So we see them iu what were fitly enough from their stench and m vendhitiour^^ the ‘foul wards’ of the hospital, with their tongues ulcerated, . swoS and protruded, their faces tumified, and under all the miseries attendant upon a thorough salivation. We give mercury now m moderate quantities, and it is, I believe, from this improved method of treatment that we now see comparatively few cases of horrible mutilations from sloughing of the penis, from losses of the palate and nose, and from extensive and destructive disease of the bones. Mercury may no doubt be regarded as a specific in the cure of the venereal disease. What this peculiar action of mercury consists in it is impossible to say, and it is equally obscure with me effects of other specific remedies; but we judge of its operation from its sensible ettects, and experience guides us in determining the quantity of the remedy which inay be neces- sary, and tlic degree of effect wliicli may be reej^uisite for tlie cure of the disease ^ mer- cury, in short, requires the same caution and judgment in its administration as any other remedy. And although, as I said before, a much milder course than was formerly exhibited may be sufficient to cure the disease, yet it will be necessary to adopt it in particular cases, and to vary the mode of using it in different stages of the complaint, or you may have some of the ill effects which were formerly observed, and the patient s health may be destroyed without curing the disease. The advantage and benefit of mercury are not then derived from the quantity introduced or from the violence of its effects, but from keeping up a regular and continued action for a certain period. In general the action of mercury should be kept up three weeks for a chancre, a month where the primary sore has been succeeded by bubo, and from six weeks to two months in cases of secondary symptoms; and if the symptoms should disappear quickly, still it will be right that the remedy should be continued, for the mercury is not given to cure the local symptoms only, but to ensure the system against their recurrence, and to de- I stroy the disposition to disease in those parts which have been contaminated by the S poison. i| “ Something may be said too with respect to the form of giving mercury. Where you wish to continue it for a length of time you should give the mild form ; where you wish to affect the system quickly, those kinds should be exhibited which are calculated to operate more rapidly. Hence it is not an unimportant matter whether we should give ?alomel, blue pill, hjidrarg. c. cretd, or the oxy-muriate of mercury. What we ordinarily employ in private practice is the blue pill; but in the hospital we commonly use mer- curial friction. Mercurial friction can be very thoroughly effected in the hospital; but in private practice it is seldom effectually accomplished, as it is troublesome, dirty, and .eads to the exposure of the complaint, and, therefore, except in peculiar irritability of ;he bowels, is seldom adopted. Five or ten grains of blue pill twice a day, wdth the addition of opium if the bowels should he irritable, will very commonly be sufficient to cure any complaint similar to that which we have been considering, in short, any se- condary form of the disease; but then it must be a sustained course of mercury, its in- luence must be kept up on the system for six weeks or two months, or even for a longer ceriod when the bones have been effected. It is necessary not so much to be guided by ime as by the disappearance of the symptoms ; and it is right to continue the efiect of he mercury somewhat longer, a week, ten days, or a fortnight after the symptoms have ubsided. “ But you will ask me what proof you are to have of the system being sufficiently nfluenced by the mercury, and how you are to know that its action is kept up without irejudice to the patient? During the mercurial treatment we ought to be satisfied that t has a due effect, and we commonly look for this in the affection of the gums, which lecome spongy, swollen, red, and tender. An increased flow of saliva is the usual ac- mmpaniment of this state of the gums, and the term ptyalism is often used as an equiva- • ent term for the requisite influence of the mercury on the system; but the increase of f he saliva is not at all a necessary consequence of the affection of the system, and is no K iroof in itself of the efficacy of the remedy; indeed, in some persons it does not take p ilace at all, although there is abundant proof of mercurial action. In fact, the operation t It mercury is that of producing a febrile action in some respects similar to hectic, that ^ s, there is increased action of the heart and arteries, with an augmentation of the se- « irctions; and we shall find, in a person who is the subject of mercurial action, that the -4 VOL. I. 2 U ■