NECROSIS. 688 strengthens its walls, of which the outer layer is dead. If, on the other hand, the mediUla of a sawn-through tubular bone be destroyed, in consequence of which the inner layer dies, the exudation takes place on the outer surface, from the external still living layer of the bone. Most writers have not distinguished the swelling of an in- ' flamed bone, called by Scarpa its expansion from the deposition of bone following the exudative condition, in the former case into the medullary cavity, and in the latter oa the external surface between the periosteum and the bone. The exudation is a process continuing only for a certain time, but the swelling continues during the whole peritxl of the inflammation, and first appears distinct when the bone softens and becomes very vascular opposite the necrosed piece. This expansion of the inflamed and softeii(4 bone, in the mammalia, plays the principal part in the regeneration of the necrosed piece of bone. At the part where the healthy external layer touches the internal necrotic, or where the sound internal layer touches the dead external, the still living inflamed bony layer is quite soft, red, and granulating, and in internal necrosis increase# externally, whence, however, no new tube is formed around the internal necrotic layer, (sequester,) but a strengthening of the outer layer, or beneath the external separated necrotic layer, a strengthening of the internal layer ensues, both externally as well as towards the medullary cavity. This swelling proceeds whilst the surface of the inflamed and softened bone begins to suppurate, either internally opposite the internal necrosis, or externally opposite the external necrosis. If the whole thickness of a bone be dead) no bone is regenerated; the periosteum has nothing to do with it; on the contrary, regeneration ordinarily takes place when merely the outer or inner layer is destroyed; here, however, no new bone is formed, but the dead portion of the tube in internai necrosis is only the inner layer of the tubular bone, and the new tube around the dead is only the strengthened and swollen outer layer of the tubular bone.” (p. 40.3, 404.) Of necrosis produced by irritation, two very remarkable instances may be here mentioned. Bromfield’s (a) case, in which the pea of an issue slipping frequently out of its bed, was confined by “a compress with a shilling in it bound very tightly; this, by its pressure, soon destroyed the periosteum, and not long after made its way through the surface of the bone into its spongy parts. Though a deep bed was thus obtained for the pea, yet violent pain and great swelling of the knee ensued ; by throwing out the pea and dressing the bone properly a large piece of the spongy substance came away and the sore healed.” (p. 10.) In the case referred to by Lawrence, “ the patient had received a slight injury over the tibia, the sore put on the appearance of sloughing phagedeena or gangrene, and the concentrated nitric acid was applied to it. It appears that the acid affected the periosteum of the bone, at the part to which it was applied, and inflammation and necrosis of the tibia were the consequence.” (p. 361.)] 870. The inflammation preceding weerosts has either an acute or chronic course, and is accompanied with more or less severe symptoms. If the inflammation be seated within the bone, there is first produced violent deej)- seated pain, not increased by motion nor pressure, and frequently accom- panied with severe fever, and exhausting perspiration; a hard swelling appears, which gradually spreads, and over which the skin is neitlier tense nor red. After a longer or shorter time, according to the severity of the inflammation, abscesses form in different parts, which burst and disciiarge pits, without the swelling being diminished. These openings often cor- respond to the position of the diseased bone, often they form, especially if the bone be covered with much soft parts, fistulous passages, of wliich the external openings are surrounded witli a wall of flesh, a line thick; some of them close and others again break out. [“ When the ossific inflammation is not cured,” says John Hunter, “ suppuration takes place, first, on the surface of bones or on the periosteum; secondly, in the substance; thirdly, (p. 508,) in the medullary parts. * * * The Jirst species.—When inflammation attacks the surface of a bone, the first effects are adhesive; and when suppuration takes place, the periosteum is separated as far as the suppuration extends, making undenieath a cavity for the matter. As the adhesive states take place some way round the abscess; there is in many cases a circle of adventitious bone formed in the periosteum round the abscess. * * ♦ Often, from the separation of the periosteum, part of the bone dies, and must exfoliate. The second species is of greater consequence, as more of the bone (a) Cliirurgical Observations and Cases, vol. ii. London, 1773.