500 OBSERVATIONS ON THE MODE OF the bony mass in the medullary canal is removed, whereby this canal is restored. ThU Dupuvtren calls the dqfitntive callus. For the literature of Callus, see ’ Duhamel, in Histoire et Mdmoires de l’Acad6mie des Sciences. 1739-43. Dehtleff, Dissert, seu Ossis Calli generat. et natur. per fracta animal, oss. demonstr. Gutting., 1753. Marrioues, Dissert, sur la Conformation du Cal. Paris, 1783. Villerme ; in Journal Universel des Sciences Mddicales, vol. xxviii. Meckel, J. F., Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomic. Leipz., 1818. vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 62. Breschet, C., Recherches historiques et experimentales sur la Formation du Cal; in Concours pour la place de chef des travaux anatomiques a la Facultd de Paris. Paris, 1819. 4to. Scarpa, De Anatome et Pathologifi, Ossium Commentarii. Ticini. 1827. sm. fol. Reypers, Dissert, de Origine et Natura Calli. London, 1833. Meding, above cited. Weber, M., Die Wiedervereinigung der Knochen: in Verhandl. der K. L. Aca-• demie der Naturwiss. vol. xx. 2. Miescher, above cited. [John Hunter, in speaking of the period of union and the manner in which this effed / takes place in simple fracture, says:—“ The time in which the bone will be united I will depend on circumstances. In the soft parts union will often take place in forty-eightjt hours ; but it will require much longer,time in bones. In the first place, they cannotft be brought so closely in contact, therefore a large quantity of new matter must l^econujt vascular; secondly, there is the second or ossific process to be effected; thirdly, there is t laceration of the soft parts; fourthly, the state of the constitution and restorative powenji may be weakened ; fifthly, age. The situation of the bone, too, will cause a variation; ; the lower requiring a longer time than the upper extremities. In the middle-aged andd of a good constitution, union will take place in three weeks, so as not to admit of per-'' ceptible motion. If much longer in uniting, it will be uncertain at what time this will H take place; I have known it months, and yet unite at last. This slowness seems to be j from imperfection in the two first bonds of union, the adhesive and the cartilaginoi^Vs sometimes from a want of disposition to ossification.” (p. 503.) '.L Various observations and experiments have been made on brutes, mostly rabbits and I dogs, for the purpose of ascertaining the mode in which fractures are reunited; somed of the most important of these I shall now recite. ] Breschet (a) and Villerme (6), whose inquiries into the re-union of fracture^ bones are, as Miescher observes, “ without doubt the most ample and complete,” have 1 distinguished five principal periods in the course of this process. _ [ First period.—From the first to the sixteenth day.—At the onset the efiused bloodlis i found in all the soft parts, after which inflammation and swelling principally of the« cellular tissue appears; the neighbouring parts of the bone itself become paler, and pro- j duce with the hardened cellular tissue a regular, almost cartilaginous substance. The i periosteum is rent in pieces about the fractured part, is separated from the bone, and 4 between them both a small quantity of viscid matter is seen; the periosteum on the tenth il day has swollen to the thickness of two-thirds of a line, and adheres firmly to the mns- cles and to the hardened cellular tissue. The medulla is torn asunder, and the blood poured from it forms a stopple in the medullary canal; within it also blood is exuded, and the colour of the medulla is consequently more dingy. From the fourth day the* medulla assumes a brighter red colour and more solid, tlien becomes whitish, and the substance produced by it, soft at first, becomes cartilaginous, and at last osseous, adheriM'' with the bone itself. The surfaces of the fracture are at first concealed by coagulate > blood ; presently a little viscid matter is seen on them, which gradually increases in quantity, becomes firmer, is seen to proceed from the medullary canal, and covers theses surfaces, which, from the tenth day, are somewhat smoothed and rounded, and at last unites with the neighbouring soft parts. This is their substance intermddiaire. (a) Recbcrches historiques et experimentales (b) Dictionn, des Sciences Med., vol. xxxviii. sur le Cal; in Concours pour la place de chef des p. 416, Article—Ossijicntim du CnI. travaux anatomiques. Paris, 1819.