322 REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 306. The removal of foreign bodies from the wound, is, next to stanch- ing the blood,'the circumstance which requires the greatest attention ; be- cause, if they remain, the healing of the wound is disturbetl, and severe inflammation, suppuration, gangrene, nervous symptoms, and the like, may be produced. Foreign bodies may be either sand, pieces of clothing, bullets, broken pieces of the wounding instrument, fragments of bone, and the like. Tlie presence and position of such bodies are to be ascertained by examina- tion of the wound, which, in incised wounds, is attended with no difficulty ; but, in stabs and gun-shot wounds, the difficulty is often very great. They are to be drawn out either with dressing-forceps or with bullet-forceps, of which those invented by Percy are the most convenient, inasmuch as they serve at once for spoon, forceps, and ball-screw. If a foreign body lie near the skin, on the side opposite to where it entered, it must be re- moved by an incision at that place. If the form of the wound prevent the drawing out of the foreign body, it must be dilated in the proper direc- tion. If a foreign body, a bullet, for instance, have penetrated into a bone, its removal is generally difficult. If superficial, it may often be re- moved with a spatula or an elevator. If it lie deeper, or be wedged in between two bones, the bullet-screw must be used. If it cannot be reached by these means, it must be left alone, in the hope it may become loosened during suppuration; at least, this seems better than to remove the foreign body with mallet and chisel, or with the trepan; an exception, however, is to be made if the body be lodged in the skull. When a bone is splintered, care must be taken to remove only those pieces which are entirely loose; such as are still attached should be pressed into their place, in hope that they may unite or be discharged during suppuration. The greatest care must be taken in the removal of foreign bodies. It is only very rarely that they remain without inconvenience, by becoming enveloped in a cellular • capsule. Often, at a subsequent period, they sink deeper in various directions, produce ; pressure, inflammation, suppuration, and so on. Only when the removal of the foreim i body would cause greater mischief than letting it remain, or when the wound is already r much swollen, or the extraction of the foreign body is impossible without great violence,, or when it closes large blood-vessels, is its removal contra-indicated. 307. When the bleeding is stanched, the foreign bodies removed, and the wound cleaned, its condition must decide whether the further treatment is to be effected by quick union, or by suppuration and granulation. The former kind of treatment is always preferable, because the healing is quickest, is least interfered with by untoward accidents, and leaves the least trace of the injury behind it. 308. The cleaner the solution of continuity is, the more is it disposed to. quick union. When the divided parts have suffered much stretching, tear- ing, and bruising, before giving way, the inflammation which follows is not such as will bring about the healing of the wound by quick union; but suppuration necessarily ensues. Various, however, are the degrees, fromi simple division of a part by a cut, to wounds with destruction of parts by; bruising. Slight bruises require union, and severe bruises do not contra-, indicate it: and, even although the condition of the part give but little i hope that it will be effected, yet much is gained if the edges of the wound< hold together only at some few points, because its extent is thereby di- minished, and the suppuration much lessened. Only in wounds where the greatest degree of bruising and tearing has occurred, can no union or approximation of the edges of the wound be undertaken. Simultaneous injury of bone does not contra-indicate union. Union may