41 PUS-GLOBULES. numerous as the serum is more rich in salts. They are frequently found among fat- globules of different diameters. [Goetekbock appears to be the first who discovered the different size of the globules in pus; he says:—“All writers who have hitherto examined pus, Kaltenbrunneu (6) alone excepted, (who mentions that he has seen corpuscles and granules swimming in the pus of frogs, although in pure human pus, carefully preserved from the air, he states that he has sometimes seen granules of equal size, (p. 16,)) speak of the globules swim- ming in pus as of only one kind. I have, however, always seen globules of vastly different size in pus, of which only the largest have been noticed by writers, even by Gruithuisen and E. H. Weber. Although these exist in the greatest number in pus, yet it is not to be doubted tliat smaller ones swim among them. The proportions of the globules and liquor vary in every kind of pus, so tliat the greater be the number of globules the thicker and better is the pus, and vice versd.” (p. 8.) The size and form of the globules and granules given by Chelius are those stated by Gueterbock, who, subsequently comparing the globules in pus with the corpuscles of other animal liquors, says :—“ They are most like the globules I have found in mucus, but more irregular, unequal, and of much less number, most of which are of the same size, and some even larger than the pus-globules, as I have frequently by repeated observations ascertained, notwithstanding E. H. Weber contends they are only half as large. Like the pus- globule, they also contain a nucleus, consisting of granules. I have sometimes seen globules of the same form and nature swimming in the saliva; but at other times I have measured them twice and thrice as large. Mixed with water, they quickly swell and are decomposed. Finally, the pus-globules differ from the blood-corpuscles, not only in size, but also in chemical properties, since the envelope- of the former is dissolved by both water and acetic acid, whilst that of the latter is dissolved only by the acetic acid.” (p. 11.) The following is the account which Gueterbock gives of the chemical nature of the pus-globules, which he obtained from a wound in a horse:—“ The globules having been most carefully washed, and had concentrated acetic acid poured over them, were strained. In straining the envelopes of the globules were dissolved. On adding a solution of the ferro-hydro-cyanite of potash, a sediment was produced: the one part of it neutralized by the carbonate of potash was first rendered turbid and then precipitated, whence I conclude that the envelope is to be included among the number of those sub- stances which, named by Berzelius albuminous, are precipitated by the ferro-hydro- cyanite of potash. But the granules forming the nuclei of the globules are not dissolved by acids. I cannot yet certainly state whether, like the corpuscles of the blood, they are dissolved by the liquor of caustic potash, though it seems to me very probable that they are; for the liquor of caustic potash (or even the concentrated carbonate of potash) being added, the pus-globules become more transparent, and are less perspicuous, some after a certain time vanish, rudiments of the envelopes and granules being here and there left.” (p. 10.) The pus-globules described by Mayo (a) as “ occasionally seen in the blood of healthy persons,” the only person in whose blood he had not found them being an 1 aged woman of seventy-seven years, though he admits that “ nevertheless they differ to 1 a certain extent from the globules which are seen in pus from an ulcerated sore,” I Gulliver (6) denies being pus-globules at all, and says they are probably the large white globules of the blood spoken of by Magendie and Dr. Davy. The following is Gerber’s account of the formation of pus, and of the reproductive I organization in suppurating wounds:—“A continual oozing of liquor sangtiinis takes place I on the surface of the wound; the coagulating fibrin forms exudation-corpuscles, which I are partially disposed in layers on the wounded surface to form the exudation-membrane, land the layers nearest the living surface are converted into cells, which become further ^and difierently organized according to the nature of the tissues to be reproduced. The t cytoblasts or exudation-corpuscles most distant from the wounded surface become pus- |rcorpuscles, which, with serum, form true pus, which on the one side covers the seat of i organization, separates the so-called granulating surface from external influence, and on I the other forms that soft, mild, peculiar medium in which reproduction proceeds from :the wounded surfaces towards the middle of the wound, and by which foreign substances lare washed out of the wound. “Uhs. The exudation-corpuscles lying beyond the living influence of the wounded sur- face, but exposed to external agency, cannot retain their life for any length of time, and, j (®) Obser-vationesquaedam microscoptrro in partibus animalium pellucidisinstitutscdo inllammatione. Dissert, inaug. Ucroi., 1835. (fc) Medical Gazette, 1839, 40, p. 128. (c) lb. p 201.