563 AND THIGH-BONES. Luunvig, Progr. de collo fumoris ejiisque fracturil. Leips., 175.5. Bkunninghausen, H. J., Tiber deu Bruch des Schenkelbeinhalses. With copper ilates. Wiirzburg, 1789. 8vo. TAN Gesschfb, D., iiber Entstellungen des Ruchgrathes und Schenkelbeines. Trans- itJated from the Dutch. Gutting., 1794. p. 117. jg Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. p. 221. L H.\.gedorx, Abhandlting iiber den Bruch des Schenkelbeinhalses, nebst einer neuen ,1 Methode, den selbenleicht und sicher zu heilcn. Leipzig, 1808. tv' Boyer, above cited, vol. iii. p. 231. Deli’ecu, Prdcis dlementaire des Maladies reputees Chirurgicales, vol. i p. 274. Rhex, J. G., Dissert, de fractura colli ossis femoris. Hallse, 1814. Cooper, Astley ; in his and Travers’s Surgical Essays, and in his work. On Dis- locations and Fractures of the Joints. London, 4to. and the Appendix. Bell, Chas., Observations on Injuries of the Spine and of the Thigh-bone, London, 1824, p. 35. Earle, Henry, Practical Observations in Surgery. London, 1823. 8vo. Amesbury, Jos., Observations on the Nature and Treatment of Fractures of the ipper part of the Thigh-bone, etc. London, 1830. Dcpuxtren, Des Fractures du Col du Femur; in his Leqons Orales de Clinique Chi- rurgicale, vol. ii. p. 81. 667. Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-bone {Fractura colli femoris') may be either within or without the capsular ligament; it may be par- tially withhi or without the capsular ligament; it may be double, and accompanied with separation of the trochanter. The direction of the frac- ture within the capsule, is mostly transverse, and the fibrous covering of the neck of the thigh-bone is more or less torn ; but without, the fracture is in general oblique.' The broken surfaces are mostly uneven, and sup- ort themselves by their toothed shape; the upper may be locked into the lower end of the fracture. 668. The most frequent cause of the fracture is violence acting on the great trochanter; also a fall upon the outstretched foot, or upon the knee. Often also from very slight causes, for instance a false step, in which the foot slips, especially when in advanced age the neck of the thigh-bone is I brittle and fragile {jpar. 575). This fracture happens most frequently in £ advanced age, and more commonly in women than in men. The varia- tion in the direction of the neck of the thigh-bone at different periods of life, the greater length of the neck, and the greater projection of the great '*rochanter in females, as well as the brittleness of the bone in advanced ge, renders this intelligible. 669. The general signs of this fracture are, a previous fall on the great trochanter, the foot, or knee ; fixed pain in the hip-joint; sudden inca- pability of walking or standing, or at least great difficulty in so doing; shortening of the limb immediately or some time after the fracture ; ap- proach of the great trochanter to the spine of the hip-bone and less pro- jection ; restoration of the natural length of the limb by moderate extension, ■so long as the contraction of the muscles has not from its continuance ♦become great; then at least considerable force must be employed ; ready irecurrence of the shortening when the extension is given up ; incapability lof the patient to raise the limb straight up when he lies in the horizontal posture; in almost all cases turning of the thigh and front of the foot koutwards, and facility in returning it to its natural position, and even 2 o 2