OF WOUNDED INTESTINES. 471 applies, as self-indicated, to those cases in which the wounded intestines are retained together either with or without suture. This is the only treatment which, in shot-wounds, can be really employed; because in such cases the intestines rarely protrude, and the extraction of foreign bodies is im- possible. fin the treatment of wounds of the intestines without feculent discharge or prolapse Travers says : “ The remedies upon which I feel disposed to rely are few and simple. Total abstinence from solid food and a drink easy of absorption given in very sparing quantities and at long intervals, with a rigid preservation of the supine posture, are re- strictions which should be rigorously observed so long as any are indicated. in- jections, as Pare has well observed, should be administered, if at all, with great caution. One full bleeding might be advisable before the commencement of symptoms. To any more active treatment I should take the state of the stomach as my guide. The intimate connexion and lively sympathy subsisting between the digestive and the vascular systems render the pulse an equivocal if not fallacious criterion of the morbid changes which are to ensue. But if the stomach is quiet, we have little to fear ; if it can be tranquillized, mis- chief may be averted ; it is not in a state to retain medicine, if medicine could be ex- hibited with a prospect of obtaining the end; but to this it is manifestly inadequate under the circumstances of the case. How then shall the irritation of this organ be appeased which, if it continues, is a never failing omen of destruction ?—I would answer by the reduction of the system. Early, free, and repeated blood-letting, general and topical, is the main remedy upon which I place reliance. Nor while the stomach retained its irritability and the pain continued undiminished, would I be deterred from it by the variations of the pulse. The apprehension of reducing the power of the system below the means of reparation is futile. Under such a state of active inflammation in such parts, the patient cannot long exist; nor if he could, would this state admit of the repair of an injury.” (p. 74-7.) I do not think the sole reliance on bleeding here recommended by Travers is suf- ficient in the conduct of these cases, in which the peritoneal inflammation always sets in very speedily; neither do I think it expedient to carry it to such extent as he ad- vises, for I am sure that cases would occur in which almost the last drop of blood might be withdrawn, and yet the inflammation continue. I think it is therefore preferable to treat these cases as peritoneal inflammation after operation for strangulated rupture are treated, that is, by more moderate bleeding, and by the use of mercury till the consti- tution is affected, either by calomel, or by rubbing in mercurial ointment; and of these the latter is to be preferred, because although the stomach will commonly retain the calomel, yet it will often run off by the bowels, which it is far less likely to do, if rubbed in.—j. F. s. “ The process of spontaneous reparation,” Travers observes, “ depends upon the in- definite extension of the peritoneum, (by which membranous surfaces, identical in their organization and properties, are everywhere opposed,) and upon its disposition to assume the adhesive inflammation. Thus, if a bowel be woimded lying in contact with the pe- ritoneum of the muscles, it repairs itself by the mutual adhesion of the cut surfaces; another, more distant from the parietes contracts a close adhesion with the contiguous fold, or lays hold of the adjacent omentum. If the wound is an orifice from loss of substance, it is never obliterated by the deposition of new matter, but by the permanent close adhesion of the surface applied to its margin ; if on the contrary it is simply a division of substance, as in a clean cut wound, the sides may unite per se, without con- tracting any surrounding adhesions.” (pp. 58, 9.)] 532. Very commonly a contraction takes place at the part where the intestine is wounded, in consequence of which the faecal matter is passed with difficulty, collects, and even may produce bursting of the intestine. Therefore, for a long time after the wound is perfectly healed, a proper dietetic regimen is to be pursued, and, especially, all overloading of the intestinal canal, and the use of coarse food, are to be avoided. 533. The most dangerous complications of penetrating wounds of the belly are, effusion of facal matter, blood, or other fluid. These extravasa- tions do not happen so easily or so frequently as is supposed, on account of the mutual pressure which the intestines and the walls of the belly exert