FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 542 pressed, or whether it be partially or entirely torn through, or whether the symptoms of compression result from the effusion of blood in the different situations above men- tioned, neither of which indeed can be ascertained after the vertebral canal has been opened, unless the sheath be rent. If, however, this objection hold in regard to the fracture of the skull with symptoms of compression, for no one can certainly determine what mischief may be beneath the fractured boue, and even if it be seen, as occa- sionally it may be, that the membranes of the brain are torn, and a portion of the brain itself squeezed out, yet if the bone be depressed, and the brain labours under prc-ssure, no one would hesitate to remove the bone, in whatever condition the brain beneath might be expected to be found. This treatment of a compressed brain, with symptoms of compression, being that which is thought necessary by all Surgeons of experience, it seems to me that the analogy is so close, as regards compressed spinal cord, that the operation is not merely permissible, but is called for imperatively, and I fully agree with J.SGEB, that the earlier it is performed, the better. The much dreaded subsequent inflammation I do not think is much to be feared; at any rate it is never taken as an objection to trephining the skull. The great diflSculty in the after-treatment is the great irritability of the bladder from the highly alkaline state of the urine, which de- pends on the irritation of the cord, but which I doubt not might be counteracted. Operation.—The operation is tedious and tiresome, unless the muscles can be well drawn aside from the spine. A long incision should be made along the ridge of the spinous processes, the middle of which should be opposite the displacement, and from them all the muscles should be well cleared. Cline and Tyrrell used broad angular plates as retractors on each side, but they are very inconvenient Instead of employing them, I divided all the attachments of the muscles to the articular processes, which gave plenty of room, as the one end of each muscular bundle being separated from its at- tachment, it retracted of itself, and needed little holding back with the finger. Cline advised the use of a small crowned trephine to cut through the vertebral arch, if requisite; Tyrrell, however, found Hey’s saw most convenient: but, in my case, one side of the arch being broken, and the yellow ligament torn through, and admitting the entrance of my finger, I divided the other side of the arch with a pair of stout bone-nippers. I should therefore think that generally the saw or the nippers would be found suflScient; but iu an operation of this kind the Surgeon must remember that he must be ready to use one instrument or another, according to the circumstances of the case. In sawing or cutting out the arch, it is always best to grasp the spinous process, if it be not broken, with a pair of stout tooth-forceps, and I think these are fo be preferred to the elevator for lifting the detached bone from its natural connexions. If, when the vertebral canal has been thus exposed, there be any clotted blood upon the sheath, it must be gently re- moved with the end of a probe or director. And if the cord be not tom through, its pulsation will be seen to return so soon as the pressure on it has been removed. After the operation and dressing the wound with long straps of adhesive plaster, the patient should either be kept on his face, or by means of Knox’s spine-bed (a) may be re- placed on his back, and from day to day turned over, the state of the wound examined, the dressings readjusted, and after resting a few hours on his belly, again be turned upon his back. The bladder will require to be frequently emptied with the catheter, which is better than allowing it to remain in continually.—J. F. S.] (a) Knox, upholsterer, of Jermyn-street, has con- structed an ingeniously^contrived bedstead, appli- cable specially to injuries and diseases of the spine. Its ground'Work is Henry Earless bedstead, and has|at each side a deep plank,presenting the appear- ance of a large oblong table-tray. In the middle of the frame, at the head and foot, is a large pivot on the same plane as the bedstead, which rest each in a socket upon a strong wooden frame within which the bedstead swings. The foot pivot islonger than its socket, and has attached to it a cogged wheel with handles like a rudder-wheel, and traverses vertically hy handles ranged round its edge, and which as it is turned, on drawing back the catch which bolts into the cog-wheel, can incline the bed from side to side, or even turn it completely upside down. In order to turn the bed over, one long well-stuffed pillow is inserted between that side of the patient on which he is to rest in turning and the corresponding side of the bed. The space be- tween the other side of the bed and the patient is then to be packed with other pillows, after which a hair mattress, extending from the patient’s chin to his heels, is laid upon and some stout bands crossed and buckled over it from one edge of the bed to the otlier. The preparations being now perfected the winch is turnea carefully ; in a few minutes the patient rests upon his belly, and immediately the original bottom of the bed, w hich is supported by bolts, is removed, the pillow's taken away, and thus the whole back expos^, witliout the patient’s po- sition having been in tlie least disturb^. Return to the supine posture is effected by adjusting the pillows and reapplying and bolting-in uie origiw bottom, and turning the cog-w’hecl in theopy^te direction. 1 have used this bed several times, and found it very’ useful, though rather cumbrous.