401 2 D ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. len Bincii of St. Thomas’s, whose patient she was, cut through the scalp, but did not iiserve any disease in the pericraniinn or bone. The discharge from the wound at •St afforded some relief; but it became fetid, the pericranium separated, the bone was irious, and an aperture in it allowed the passage^ of pus at every pulsation of the irain. A trephine was therefore applied to render its escape more ready; and, on the uinoval of the bone, the dura mater was found inflamed and gangrenous. She died next ly, about nineteen months after the accident, (p. 326-28.) I have seen sevei’al cases of this chronic inflammation, which is always a very rious disease, and very difficult of control; often indeed entirely unmanageable. The itieiit goes on slowly from bad to worse, sometimes with intervals of improvement, metimes without, and will frequently live in a state of constant suffering for many lonths.—J. F. S.] 405. Acute Injiamination of the Brain {Encephalitis acuta traumatica) jgins immediately after the injury, with severe, constant, increasing pain the head, uneasiness, sleeplessness; the eyes are red, intolerant of light, \e pupils contracted, countenance red, the carotids beat actively, the head hot, the pulse full, hard, and vibrating. Contractions of the muscles of [e face, and of tlie whole body, and severe violent delirium ensue. If the lamination do not subside, it may be fatal by its severity, by the gorging the brain with blood, and paralysing of the brain thereby ; or it goes on [suppuration ; symptoms of pressure on the brain, constant sleepiness, but ten broken by delirium, and all the above-described symptoms {par. 403) |me on, and death ensues. On dissection, the brain is found full of blood, I medullary part reddened, and, when cut through, a quantity of bloody lints, and even extravasated blood ; collections of pus may also be noticed ] various parts on the surface of the brain, or in its substance. |406. Chronic Inflammation of the Brain {Encephalitis chronica trau- itica) frequently comes on very late; its symptoms are commonly de- lotive, and, at the first, easily overlooked; often showing intermission or lission. Bodily and mental depression, continued headache, febrile Jiverings, and the like occur for a shorter or longer time; and with the ping of the inflammation into suppuration, the disturbance of the brain jomes greater, or symptoms of compression come on. Examination after ith shows either a defined or diffused collection of pus in the substance, [on tlie surface, of the brain (1). (1) It is quite impossible to determine the length of time which abscess in the brain has sted before it produces symptoms, as its only indications are the symptoms of com- 5sion, which come on two or three, or three or four days previous to death. The ; of the abscess often leads to the belief that it cannot have been formed in the few j’S during' which symptoms have existed; and its situation seems to have material luence on the appearance of the symptoms, proportionate to the importance of the |tof the brain immediately compressed. Thus a large abscess may exist in the upper Its of the brain, which probably has occupied some time in its formation, yet symp- lis of pressure appear only two or three days before death. Whilst, on the contrary, Inaller, or even a small abscess at the base of the brain, or near the origin of the Ives will produce symptoms, probably at any earlier period, which are more decided I severe. Hence though it is customary to speak of death from abscess in the brain, rarious periods after the reception of an injury, it must not be supposed that the |:ie88 has existed during any very considerable portion of that time, though it has Ibably commenced its formation much before its existence was suspected, lometiraes the abscess in the brain appears to be sympathetic, with irritation and Ipuration of the dura mater; a good example of which is presented by tbe following hE under the care of my friend Green (a)A boy, aged twelve years, was admitted f Thoma.s’s Hospital, Oct. 26, 1827, having ten weeks previously received a blow l:ne forehead, followed by abscess, from which several ounces of pus were discharged puncture; and he recovered. Three weeks before his admission he had an epileptic (o) Lancet, 1827-28. vol. i. p. 687, 88.