FRACTURE OF THE 532 always connected with injury of tlie spinal marrow or its nerves, eitlier by concussion, by inpressing' of tlie pieces of bone, or by extravasation; or inflammation may ensue. Palsy of all tlie parts below the injury may , occur either immediately, or some time after the accident; palsy of the lower limbs, of the bladder, (with alkaline state of the urine,) and of the rectum, if the fracture take place at the lower part of the spinal column; simultaneous tension of the belly and difficult breathing, if the fracture be higher. In coiisequence of lying continually on the back, which the patient is compelled to persist in, on account of the palsy of his lower limbs, inflammation and mortification occur upon the rump-bone ; the palsy spreads generally further, and the patient dies of exhaustion in a shorter • or longer time, four or five weeks after the accident: often, however, if •' he live longer, the palsy diminishes, the effects of lying heal, but at last, . even years after, the patient yields to spinal consumption. If the fracture • occur with dislocation above the third vertebra, death speedily ensues. . Fractures beneath the origin of the phrenic nerves, cause palsy of the • arms and of the deeper parts ; it is, however, rarely complete, one arm is < frequently affected more than the other if the fracture be oblique ; the » breathing is very difficult: death usually occurs in from three to seven i days (a). When inflammation sets in delirium, restlessness, and priapism i come on ; the patient raises himself up, and tries to stand upright, and i death usually happens about the fifth day (i). If the inflammation be r lingering, its subsequent transition into exudation and suppuration of the ? spinal marrow, is fatal. Phillips (c) ■witnessed a remarkable case of fracture of the first vertebra and of the » pivot process of the second, in which the transverse ligament remained whole, and im- ■ mediate death did not take place, and the patient only died forty-seven weeks after the t accident, of water in the chest. J.®gek (d) rightly supposes that the preparations of i fracture of the spine healed by callus, of which I myself possess two examples, prove no < more than that these fractures may unite in from eight to twelve weeks by callus or < tough ligamentous bands, but not that the patient will be cured of his pals}*. I also < agree with him that many cases of pretended union of fractured vertebra: are veiy j suspicious, and may have been only mere bruising, stretching of the ligaments, con-1 cussion of the spinal marrow. I have, however, notes of one case in which union of J a vertebral fracture, accompanied with perfect palsy of the lower limbs and bladder, ri ensued, and the patient continued improving for ten years. [(1) If by this expression Chelius mean strictly, fracture of the body of a vertdra « wimout that of any other part of it, he is quite correct; but if he mean that fracture of the body with that of some other part of the vertebra, he is wrong; for I have notes of» five cases which were admitted, in one year, into St. Thomas’s Hospital. Fracture of the body does not always require very great violence for its production, v unless the blow be received on the fractured part. The following are two very re- c markable instances in which the fracture was caused merely by jumping head foremost»( into the water. Case 1. A sailor about forty years of age, in good health, jumped headlong froins i ship into the sea to bathe, a sail being spread a few feet below the surface to receive f' the bathers, and protect them from the sharks. It is supposed, that his head vas i violently thrown back on coming in contact with the water or sail, as he immediately 1; became motionless. When got on deck, all the muscles of the limbs and trunk below « the shoulders were observed to be paralysed, and respiration was performed by the j diaphragm alone. The circulation and temperature were natural, and the senses pet^^ feet. In a few hours after the occurrence of the accident, vomiting commenced and: became more frequent till he died at the expiration of forty-eight hours. Upon examination, the fourth cervical vertebra was found completely severed through; its body, which was widely separated from that of the third. The left side of the: fa) Cooper, A., On Dislocations. (c) Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions; and in the f&] Hem., Charles, above cited. London Medical Gazette, March, 1S36. (d) Above cited, vol. iii. p. 22it.