615 TKEATMENT. i treatment must be employed. In proportion as the inflammation dimi- « nishes, the secretion of pus increases. i If an ulcer be in an erethetic condition, its base is also very much red- «<lened, but its sensibility extraordinarily increased. Here are serviceable Jnarcotic remedies, both internally and externally; rubbings in of warm oil of henbane, poultices of hemlock, henbane, and the like. In torpid conditions, depending on local or general weakness, the ulcer # shows relaxation; the surrounding parts are pale, relaxed, and oedema- Stously swollen ; the ulcer is insensible, and secretes a quantity of ill-con- i^riitioned thin pus. Here such local and general treatment must be em- ^ployetl as may increase the living activity and thereby promote the secre- . ition of good pus. (Compare jaar. 62.) $ 754. The variety of ulcers, in reference to their form, requires peculiar .Inattention in their treatment. l| The Fold or Gangrenous Ulcer ( Ulctis putridum, gangrenosum, Lat; ^ faule Oder hrandige Geschwiir, Germ. ; Ulcere gangreneux, Fr.) is characterized by a foul, grayish-yellow or blackish surface, by insensibility, land by the secretion of a discoloured very fetid pus; the sloughy character ©often spreads over the whole extent of the ulcer and the parts are either ^ gangrenous or sphacelated. The causes of this change in the ulcer may a be neglect of cleanliness, improper treatment, impeded circulation, foul , air, bad food, gastric impurities, weakened constitution, debility of the 9 vascular system, cachexia, and the like. The treatment consists in removing the causes, and in employing such ■Mtremedies as promote throwing off the gangrenous parts or the restoration of i(^hose, not yet completely destroyed to their natural vitality, which is to be riBattempted by the use of internal and external remedies. Bark, valerian, [ilcamphor, naphtha, the mineral acids, and so on, are employed internally; rsjexternally, decoction of bark, or oak bark with lime water, of walnut shells, -Tijof water-germander, Avith spirits of wine, vinegar, and so on; aromatic rtispirituous washings of the surface surrounding the sore, charcoal poAvder rf^with bark, oil of turpentine, digestive salves of myrrh, or camphor, solution il5 of chloride of lime, fermenting poultices of flour, yeast, and honey. In ^general the resins or essential oils are more effective than moist remedies, jg If general dyscrasy exist, suitable remedies must be employed. When por- tions of the surface of the ulcer have separated, they must be removed ; and g cuts made when collections of pus beneath the destroyed parts are to be feared. Frequent cleansing especially, the local application of oil of turpen- ^ tine, spirituous remedies, tincture of aloes, or sublimate, must be had recourse iS to against the worms and maggots Avhich are not unfrequently produced (It in these ulcers. More suitable than these numerous and in their operation V* very different remedies, is the use of mild aromatic applications, or poultices, '! byAvhich the living activity is best increased, and the foul smell also dimin- ■»ished, as already mentioned ( par. 72) in the general treatment of gangrene. ' The solution of chloride of lime in Avater in different proportions, according to the . vital disposition of the ulcer, is recommended as most highly efficient in ganOTenous, and specially in foul and torpid ulcers (Percy, Labarraque.) Lisfranc (a) bandages - Tv*' ^ moistened compress, and applies on it charpie soaked in a solution of cftlonde of lime. Lemaire (6) uses one part of chloride of lime and three parts of water. Ekl (c) first employed fifteen grains of chloride of lime in eleven ounces of ater, and afterivards four grains to an ounce. According to Klimatis (d) it should (c) Rat. mcd. in schola cl. med. et cliir. univers- Landish,1826. BOBiEp’s Notizen, vol.xvi. no.7, p. 107. fa) Revue Medicale, 1821. \P) Archives Generales, vol. >*. P. 138. I Fbo (S)\