cxxvn ANALYTICAL INDEX. Model’s opinion that spurred rye does not cause gangrene in beasts, i. (51 ; disproved by T essier, i. 61; Block’s experiments on tlie subject, i. 61 ; Dr. C. Woolaston’s cases of gangrene, i. 61; mortification of the cheek, called noma by Vogel, i. 61 ; a rare and generally fatal disease, i. 61; I description of noma by Drs. Evanson and 1 Mauusell, i. 62 ; the term, cancrum oris, . incorrectly applied to noma, i. 62 ; can- cnim oris, a form of mortification com- ; mencing with ulceration, generally first ; in the gums, and thence spreading to the ; lips and cheeks, i. 62; described by Dr. Gumming, i. 62 ; South’s case of noma in 1 the adult, i. 62; mortification, a conse- I ■ quence of contagious influence, results in 1) malignant pustule, or hospital gangrene, i. 63; malignant pustule, its causes and I symptoms, i. 63 ; contagious from beasts I- to man, but not from man to man, i. 63 ; I Elliotson on glanders in the human sub- ['. ject, i. 64; Lawrence’s cases of malignant ] pustule, i. 64; Beer’s and Delpech’s cases, i i. 65 ; 'Turchetti’s cases of malignant pus- (.1 tule, described by him as anthrax, i. 66 ; ll Dr. Wagner’s cases of malignant pustule, n produced by contact, and by eating the \i flesh of diseased animals, i. 66 ; Dr. Bourgeois’ observations on malignant pus- tule, i. 67 ; hospital gangrene, i. 68 ; de- K scription of the disease, i. 68; local and general symptoms, i. 68; Liston’s account ! of the hospital gangrene in University [■j. College Hospital in 1841, i. 68; Arnott’s cases of hospital gangrene at the Middle- ■ sex Hospital, i. 69 ; the disease exceed- B ingly rare in the London hospitals, i. 69 ; M Lawrence on sloughing phagedena, i. 69 ; p Welbank on sloughing phagedena, i. 70 ; j this disease regarded by S. Cooper as r resembling hospital gangrene, i. 70 ; de- 1 pied by South, i. 70 ; South on the slough- ing state of stumps from want of power, . i. 70; the characteristic of hospital gan- J grene, i. 70; the cause of hospital gan- I grene is the operation of a peculiar con- itagious matter, i. 70 ; it is always a very 1 dangerous complication of wounds and ■< sores, i. 70; treatment of gangrene, i. 94; • when connected with active inflammation, and inflammatory fever, moderate anti- k phlogistic treatment to be employed, i. 'll-94; if caused by the constriction of fa, “I'y'tiding aponeuroses, they must be divided, i. 94; when connected with •general debility, tonics and mineral acids indicated, i. 94 ; local treatment of gan- grene, i. 94; if there be active inflamma- tion, soothing poultices: if the part be free from pain, and shrivelled, stimulant 1 applications required, i. 95: remedies which prevent the influence of the gan- grenous juices, i. 95; their action aided by scarifications in the gangrenous parts, i. 95 ; these latter must not penetrate into the living parts, i. 95; scarifications are dangerous in gangrena senilis, i. 95 ; amputation not applicable in gangrene depending on an internal cause still in operation, i. 95; applicable after the line of demarcation has formed, or in gan- grene from external violence, even while still proceeding, i. 95; South’s opinion that amputation should never be per- formed while the gangrene is in progress, i. 95 ; treatment of senile gangrene, i. 96 ; when resulting from an injury, soothing or dry aromatic applications, or leeching, if the inflammation be active, i. 96 ; Dupuytren employed the antiphlogistic plan of treatment in plethoric subjects, i. 96; when from constitutional causes, tonics and opium necessary, i. 96 ; treat- ment of gangrene from pressure, i. 96; from the use of spurred rye, i. 96 ; Thom- son and S. Cooper’s cases, i. 97 ; treatment of malignant pustule, i. 97 ; local treat- ment by cutting out the pustule, and cauterizing the wound, i. 97 ; if the pus- tule not deep, but the slough much spread, deep scarifications and the application of caustic recommended, i. 97 ; employment of constitutional treatment, i. 97; treat- ment of hospital gangrene, i. 97 ; emetics advised by Pouteau and Dussausoy, i. 97 ; washing the sore with vinegar or solution of arsenic in the commencement of the disease, i. 97; the entire surface to be touched with nitrate of silver, i. 98 ; the free application of the actual cautery most effectual, i. 98 ; constitutional treat- ment should be employed at the same time, i, 98 ; gangrenous destruction of parts from burns, i. 110; treatment of mortification caused by burns, i, 112; cold wet sufficient to induce mortifi- cation, if continued sufficiently long to reduce the natural heat below a certain standard, i, 126; gangrene the result of too suddenly warming a frozen limb, i. 129; treatment of a frozen part in which mortification is threatened, from its hav- ing been too hastily warmed, i, 130 ; when mortification has taken place, it must be treated in the usual manner, i, 130 ; treat- ment of gangrenous chilblains, i. 131 ; gangrene of the testicle a rare termina- tion of inflammation, i, 179 ; causes and treatment of mortification in compound fractures, i. 509; South on inortification in compound fractures, and its treatment, local and general, i, 511; sloughing of the omentum in strangulated hernia, ii. 41; gangrene of the intestine in strangu- lated hernia, ii. 42. Mouton on the inhalation of ether prior to the extraction of teeth, ii. 1007.