708 BLEEDING FROM nitrate of silver to'the fuiig-socket; the bleeding ceased for a couple of hours, hut recurring, he introduced some nitric acid, which, however, only checked it for a short time, and the patient was content with washing his mouth with cold water till 1 p.m. of yesterday afternoon, when he came to the hospital, and the dresser plugged the socket with sponge dipped in tincture of myrrh and alum; after which the bleeding ccaa-d for eight hours, but then came on again, and continued through the night till 11 o’clx:k this morning, when he came again to the hospital, and the dresser applied a hot wire to the socket, which checked but did not stop the bleeding entirely. It soon, however burst out afresh, and at 7 p.m. he returned to the hospital, and having been admitted the dresser applied muriatic acid, but without effect. I saw him soon after, and having cleared away the clot, found two bleeding points, one by the alveolar partition of the third molar tooth, and the other deeper in the socket. To these I applied the actual cautery at a black heat, and the bleeding ceased, but soon recurred; and when I saw him again four hours after, I found a clot about the socket as big as a nut, with a free arterial stream flowing from beneath it; tliis 1 removed, plugged the socket with cotton steeped in tinct. benz. comp., and directed pressure should be kept up so long as there was any bleeding. After four hours it seemed to have stopped, but in half an hour burst out again, and continued through the night. At 8 a.m. June 18, a pencil of lunar caustic was introduced, and the surface of the socket being freely cauterized, the bleeding was checked for a short time, but the oozing soon recurred, and when I saw him three hours after, a fresh clot had formed and the bleeding continued as before. I tried to make pressure upon a pad of cotton thrust into the socket, with a bell-spring carried over the crown of the head, but could not effect it. I then made a paste of tannin and cotton mixed with spirits of wine, thrust it into the socket with a probe, and pressed it down with the finger till it had become converted into a concrete, by which the bleeding was completely stopped, and so continued for six hours, when it broke out afresh and con- tinued streaming till 8 p.m., at which time I saw him again, found the plug thrust out completely and the socket filled with clot. This I removed entirely, and after squeezing for a few minutes the soft parts about the socket, which were swollen, with my finger and the lint, which gave him gi-eat pain, but stopped the bleeding, 1 left the socket alone, and applied linen dipped in spirits of wine as an evaporating lotion on the cheek. His bowels not having been relieved for the last tsvo or three days, three grains of cal- omel, with some infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia, was ordered forthwith. No bleeding for five hours, after which it came on again, but pressure being made for a little time, it ceased for an hour, and then returning, continued through the night till I saw him at 11 a.m of the 19<A June, when I removed a clot as big as a walnut, and plugged the socket with cotton steeped in kreosote, and ordered one grain of acetate of lead three times a day. There was no bleeding for twelve houi-s, but it then returned and continued through the night till next morning, when I saw him, and having cleared out all the clot and made a little pressure, it ceased. As he complained of pain in his belly, the lead was omitted after he had taken four doses. In the evening the bleeding returned, but was stopped during the whole night by plug^ng with cotton and kreosote. On the morning of the 21st June the bleeding returned, a fresh clot formed and the oozing from beneath it as before. On the \%th he had not appeared to have suffered much, his countenance was not particulary pallid, and his pulse, though rather quick- ened, was firm and free from hoemorrhagic jerk ; but now he is pallid, complains of faint- ness, the pulse is quick and has the jerk which has not been previously noticed. On consultation with my colleague Green, it was determined to apply the actual cauteiy again; and having made a careful examination, I w^as only able to discover one fang- socket, through which however the probe readily passed into the maxillary cavern. I then passed a conical iron at a black heat to the very bottom of the socket, which caused great pain, as I expected, from the already irritable and inflamed state of the parts after so much handling; and I also seared the sides of the cavity and the gum, frean which there was some oozing. The bleeding then ceased. He was ordered to take eveiy eight hours two grains of acetate of lead, with half a grain of opium. There was no recurrence of the bleeding after this; the lead was continued for two days and then left off, and in the course of a week he was quite well and left tlie house. On the Uli March, 1841, he had the second left lower molar tooth drawn at the hos- pital, from which, excepting a very few hours, bleeding continued till his readmission, March 6th. The socket was then filled with putty by the Surgeon in attendance, and over it a pad of lint, by which it was stopped for al)out twelve hours, when it burst forth again, and continued through the night. On the following morning two irons of ent size were introduced into the cavity at a red heat, but the bleeding was not checked till the socket had been plugged wdth lint steeped in tincture of myrrh. After twelve