417 UPON THE BRAIN. Leeches, warm bathing, and other remedies were employed; and for the next seven months she did not have a fit, but enjoyed good liealtli, and grew rapidly. On t le lapse of this interval she had a fit exactly like the last, but the left arni aim leg were attected in the same manner as the right arm and leg had been in the first attacks. These recurred sometimes twenty times, sometimes only a few times a-day, and sionally a day jmssed without any; and they continued for four _ months and a-halt, during the last fortnight of which a swelling was observed on the right side oi the liead over the seat of injury; this, on the application of leeches, subsided ^multaneously ; with the cessation of the fits, which did not recur for a twelvemonth. But in October I last she was again seized w’itli the same kind of fits as in the first attack, and both sides j were now affected with rigidity. , At the present time she has three or four spasmodic fits a-day ; and on some days a ^ fit, accompanied with rigidity, every hour. She often complains of headache and giddi- ness; and when the fit is coming on the skin assumes a purplish appearance; she be- ll comes very cold and trembling, and is often very mischievous and destructive. While I taking these notes,” observes Will. Adams, who reports the case, “ she stood by me ; ■ suddenly her eyes were fixed, the pupils were dilated, and staring wildly at the opposite »wall; her naturally very pale face became still more pallid; the lips were separated, the . corners of the mouth drawn up as if laughing, and the teeth closed. The right arm iwas bent, the fist clenched, very firmly drawn against the side, and the hand extremely tcold. The left arm was very slightly affected. She retained this posture and expres- .sion of countenance ; but thinking she might fall, I sat her upon my knee, and immedi- lately the left leg was firmly bent upon the thigh. It was impossible to bend the head .either forwards or backwards, or to rotate it. The pupils, at first dilated and fixed, after two or three minutes suddenly contracted, but again expanded slightly. She then winked for a few seconds, gave a sigh, and returned to a state of consciousness, appear- ing as if nothing had happened to her, but only being very cold. The mother says she igenerally sighs very heavily at the end of the fit. She is aware of the approach of the ts, and lies down on her bed a minute or two before the attack. They last about three minutes; some parts of the body are slightly convulsed, while others are very rigid, the rigidity being always prevalent. On examination of the head there is perceived a broad fissure in the skull extending from about the centre of the sagittal suture ob- liquely across the right parietal bone to the lambdoidal suture, the integuments over which rise and fall with the pulsations of the brain.” Feb. 12. She had two fits. 16. One. 19. Two. 20. One ; as also on 26, 27, and2S<A. March 2. Two. 9. One. 10. One. 11. Two more violent than usual. 12. One. 16. Three. Green considered that the cause of these curious symptoms was depressed bone, and herefore determined to trephine her. March 20. A J_-shaped incision was made through the integuments, the horizontal itretching obliquely across the hinder upper part of the right parietal bone, and tlie ertical one across the fissure. The flaps were then raised, and a triangular portion of x)ne being exposed, the crown of the trephine was applied just above the fissure Avhere he bone was irregular. On the removal of the trephined bone a lacerated hole was bund in the dara mater, but no dura mater adhering to the under surface of the bone, r rather the dura mater was deficient. A probe was then slipped in, and passed be- eath the edges of the fissure, but no depression could be felt. The arachnoid coat nd pia mater were then cut through, for the purpose of exciting inflammation between ' em and the dura mater, to shut off the wound from the general cavity of the latter; nd this done the flaps were laid down, a piece of lint wetted in cold water laid over, ud the child put to bed. One vessel bled very profusely during tlie operation, but ' e had not any fit. On the following afternoon at half-past 4 she had a fit, and another four hours after- ards. A dose of scammony and calomel (15 grs.) given in the morning not having ;ted, an injection of castor oil and gruel was administered at night. She was kept on tea and toast and water till the 24th, when no inflammatory symp- iims having appeared she was allowed a cup of beef tea. On the 26th having had a ^.d night she was restless and irritable. On the 27th the bowels not being open, fifteen ainsof scammony and calomel were ordered, which freely relieved them. March 29, half-past 2, p.m. She had a fit attended with violent spasm of the muscles the lips, lower jaw and eyelids, and biting of the tongue, so that blood flowed from »e mouth. The dressings were now first removed; the edges of the wound were se- urated and lifted up by a swelling rising above the level of the skin, part of which Mw-nibles brain, but most of the surface is covered with blood and pus. The cliild was VOL. I. 2 E