DISLOCATION OF THE KIBS, V76 examination, the position of the two hip-bones is not found alike, the one i< being more or less high than the other. ■ A similar swelling, loosening and laxity of the joint ligaments of tbe^ pelvic bones often arises from an internal diseased condition, in wliich sliglit violence is sufficient to produce a separation of the pelvic bones. 1016. The principal indication in these cases is, to fix the pelvis as ^ steadily as possible and prevent every movement; for which purpose, a « belly bandage, or a leathern girdle, is to be applied sufficiently tight around ■! the hips; by this the pain is often instantaneou.sly got rid of, and the« patient’s movements much improved. How far the laxity of the ligaments, depending on general causes, may be relieved by friction, purging, and the *• like, must depend on the circumstances of the individual case. 1017. The coccyx may by violence be driven inwards, or by difficult t labour be thru-st outwards, giving rise to fixed pain, increased by motion of the lower limbs, but especially in going to stool; frequently it become^>- severe and pulsating, when suppuration takes place. The ligaments are t. not torn in this so-called dislocation of the coccyx, it therefore recovers > its natural position; the employment of the hand for its replacement, by ,• the introduction of the finger into the rectum, or by its application ex- - ternally is therefore superfluous. The treatment consists merely in rest, . antiplilogistic treatment, and the local application of remedies to effect dis- -; persion and get rid of the inflammatory symptoms. If suppuration take -ii place, a speedy outlet must be afforded to the pus, or otherwise consider- - able destruction of the loose cellular tissue is produced. IV.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE RIBS AND THEIR CARTILAGES. ILuxatio Costarum, earumque Cartilaginum, Lat.; Verrenkung der JRippen und Hirer ■ Knorpel, Germ.; Luxation des Cotes et de leurs cartilages, Fr.) 1018. Dislocations of the hinder end of the ribs have been totally denied by many writers, but admitted by others, who have mentioned a threefold kind of separation, inwards, upioards, and downwards, and complete and incomplete dislocation. So long as the examination of corpses had not shown the existence of these dislocations, it was doubtful whether the common dislocation were not fracture of the hinder end of the ribs ; exami- nation, how'ever, has proved the possibility of the dislocation of the ribs. B. Cooper (a) mentions a ease of Webster’s, in which a man who had died of fever, was, on dissection, found to have the head of the seventh rib drawn upon the front of the corresponding dorsal vertebra and anchylosed to it. Some years previously he liad had a sudden and violent fall from his horse, for which the ordinary treatment of frac- tured ribs had been had recourse to. Donne (i) showed from the examination of the body of a child of eleven years old, a complete dislocation of tlie tenth, and a par- tial one of the eleventh rib; Fimicane one of the eleventh and twelfth rib; ll.vji- KEL (c) a dislocation of the eleventh rib. 1019. Dislocation of the ribs is only produced by the direct opera- tion of external violence. It occurs most frequently at tlie eleventh and twelfth ribs, because their front end lias no point of support, the trans- verse process is less projecting, and the costo-transverse joint, together with the interosseous costo-transverse ligament are deficient. Dislocation of the rib may be distinguished by its greater mobility, when the finger is run along it, and whicli is still more perceptible the nearer it approaches falHia Edition of A. Coopku’s DUlocalions, Gaiette Medicate de Paris, 1841, No. 26. p. Vo. (o) lb., 1881, p 187.