143 TREATMENT OF HARDENED TONSILS. which stopped from the occurrence of fainting, and did not recur. It, however, not only seriously alarmed the patient and those around him, but also the gentleman made the puncture. A long time elapsed before the patient recovered his strength. J 131. When inflammation of the throat passes into mortification, the fever especially must be treated according' to its character. The local treatment consists in removing the sloughs and foul ichor from the throat by injection of decoction of bark, of scordium with alum, camphorated vinegar, and so on. Hydrochloric acid with honey applied with a pencil of charpie on the mortified part is of great use. 132. The hardening of the tonsils which remains after inflammation, is of a good character; it is little painful, but is commonly subject to repeated inflammatory attacks, yet very seldom does it run into cancer. It may be treated with gargles of hemlock, belladonna, hydrochlorate of am- monia, and so on; by rubbing of mercurial or iodine ointment externally upon the neck, by the internal use of hemlock and by derivation, by repeated scarifications and the frequent use of leeches. If inflammation should occur and run on to abscess, suppuration must be suitably promoted, and the open- ing of the abscess delayed till all hardness has subsided. In hardening of the tonsils, frequent painting during the day with fresh juice of clielidonium, at first mixed with honey of roses, but subsequently pure, is very efficient. [Else (a), who, many years since, was Surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, denied that this so-called scirrhus of the tonsils was true scirrhus; the tonsils, in his opinion, never being afiFected with scirrhosity. And Tweedie (6) observes on this point:—“ It is more consistent with pathological anatomy to ascribe those cases of supposed scirrhus of the tonsils to hypertrophy and induration alone.” (p. 185.) A very common attendant on enlargement of the tonsils is a disagreeable roughness of the voice; and deafness also is produced, either by blocking up the apertures of the Eu- stachian tubes, or by pressing against their cartilaginous part. It has also been asserted within the last few years, that enlarged tonsils are the cause, or one of the causes, of stammering, in consequence of which they have been very freely lopped by the practi- tioner who broached the opinion, but the success of his operations has been less than he would wish to allow (c). Local treatment with astrinaent earales. in these cases, is nf1 inip honofit pt,,i i uc viujuc, tuc luusiis, ouce eiJiar; under excitement, again and again enlarge, and be very troublesome.—J. F. S. vol. ii. p. 587.