477 FISTULOUS WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. ri'^ht Throu<»b this the greater part of the large curvature of the stomach, the arch of the co/on, and the entire large omentum, were protruded and strangulated. The omentum was detached from the stomach to a considerable extent; and two wounds appeared on the latter viscus, the one a peritoneal graze, and the other a perforation of its coats admitting the head of a large probe. From this opening a considerable quantity of mucus issued. When admitted at half-past C, she was exceedingly faint and exhausted ; pulse 10‘^ and irregular ; countenance pale and dejected; surface of the body moderately warm ■ Tittle pain fn the abdomen; diaphragm irritable, having a disposition to, rather than actual hiccoii«-h, but no vomiting. The space between the omentum and stomach was filled with coagula, but it did not appear that she had lost much blood. A small portion of the coats'^of the stomach, including the wound, was nipped up with a pair of forceps, a silk ligature tied around it, and after a vertical dilatation of the wound, the protruded viscera with considerable difficulty returned into the cavity of the abdomen; the parietal wound was closed by the quill suture ; warm fomentations were applied to the abdomen • and the patient ordered to be kept strictly quiet, and without food or drink. During the reduction she suffered excruciating pain, and from the spasmodic action of the diaphragm considerable resistance was offered to their return, notwith- standing the entire relaxation of the abdominal muscles. Oct. 19, 8 A.M. Has slept a good deal, and passed a tolerable night; has vomited twice, in consequence each time of tea having been given, contrary to orders. Feels comfortable and free from pain, and has little tension of the abdomen; but upon pressure there is considerable pain; no motion, but has voided much high-coloured urine; pulse 120, fiill and soft; skin warm; tongue white and moist; countenance less pallid and anxious. An injection of salt and gruel ordered. In the evening three drachms of castor oil were given, as there had not been any operation from the injection, which had caused great pain. She has vomited a little twice, though she has not taken any thing. Pulse rather contracted and hard Twenty leeches to the abdomen. Ocf 20, 8 A. M. Has had a restless night, and vomited once, but has not had any hiccough. Pain and tension of the belly increased; skin hot and dry; pulse 106, hard; tongue dry, and rather brown; no stools; complains of much thirst. 2 p.m., a considerable exacerbation of the symptoms just mentioned, with violent headache and sickness. Eighteen ounces of blood from the arm. A drachm of sulphate of magnesia in effervescing saline mixture every hour. Twenty leeches to the belly. 10 p.m. much relieved from pain and fever; pulse reduced and less hard; blood a little buffyj but not cupped; retains the medicine, but it has not operated. She continued restless during the night, but became easier towards the following morning, and had two offen- sive dark-coloured motions. Pulse full and soft; considerable tension of the abdomen. Took a little bread and milk, at breakfast. During the day she had three stools, and continued improving during the following day, when she was ordered beef tea and gruel, and to take the salts in mint water. Oct. 23. Was disturbed last night with spasms of the abdominal muscles, which were soon relieved by warm fomentations. The sutures were removed, and the wound ap- pears united by adhesion, saving at its right extremity, where there is a small aperture, from which a serous fluid escapes in considerable quantity. Adhesive straps applied. Next day she felt so well that she thought she should recover. She is anxious for food; eats with appetite and without inconvenience. The action of the bowels re- gular ; to take the salts only occasionally. Diet as before. Wound dressed, and looks healthy. Oct. 2.5. Not quite so well. On removing the dressings, a considerable quantity of I pus and serum escaped from the unhealed angle of the wound. Oct. 29. Has continued improving, and has sat up twice. No serum flowing from the wound, which is nearly healed, and discharges a little healthy pus. She continued 1 doing well till Nov. 2, when she was suddenly attacked with rigors, and symptoms of peritoneal i inflammation followed. Sixteen leeches to the abdomen, and a free evacuation of the > bowels by castor oil, soon relieved her. A week after the wound had entirely healed and four days subsequently she got up and left the house. ’ . Dec. 23. Quite well. The ligature of the stomach was not observed in the eva- 1 cuations. i recovery from a fistulous opening in the stomach is re- aieu oy Ur. J. H. Cook (a), and is proper to be mentioned here, as proving the possibi- lity ot separation, although not arising from an inflicted wound, but probably from an Sciences, Jan. 1^34; and in London Med. Gazette, vol. xiv.