575 BELOW THE GREAT TROCHANTER. X The permanent apparatus is put on by Seutin in the following manner: After the j bed has been properly arranged, bandages, a straw cloth, Scuetetus s bandage in three 1. or four layers of strips sufficiently long to reach once and a-half round the limb, are to I I be laid upon it. The swathing of the foot is now to be commenced with the stirrup ,f 1 bandage from the root of the toes, which remain uncovered, and at the same time serve 8: as an index to determinine the position of the bone. The first layer of bandages is then s ; as usual to be applied from below upwards, and then plaster of Paris spread over it. H This acts merely for tlie gluing of the second layer, without by its hardness injuring the a • skin. The second layer is to be applied in a similar manner, and an assistant smears HI it over with plaster with a large brush. The pasteboard splints are then cut to fit, I broadest at the back part of the thigh and calf. At the edges of the foot they are, to be cut ,{| ’ witli two broad pieces, which, connected in the middle, form a sole, and reach only to cthe lateral projections of the head of the first and fifth mid-foot-bones. A single S • sole does not give sufficient firmness, though one sole may be put on, and the ends of i:the pasteboard splints made to overlap it. The pasteboard splint must not press the « edge of the shin-bone, and should be sufficiently wide that there may remain behind Jt. and before a finger’s breadth between their edges. In the edges of the splints, notches :* • should be made with the shears, or indents, which are still better, whereby they stick «, closely to the underlying parts. The pasteboard splints should be soaked in water, f •. spread with plaster, applied, and at once overspread on both sides with a thick layer of plaister, so that in drying they form as firm a substance as a wooden splint; 1: and now the third layer of bands is applied The foot is then to be somewhat I’aised, i and a conical pillow stuffed with tow, placed between the heel and calf, to keep the I hind part of the apparatus perfectly horizontal, and to diminish the dropping through IX. of the heel and calf. The heel-pad is also to be spread with plaster, and fixed in the fourth layer of bandage ; or it may be applied earlier between the bandage straps, so I that subsequently it is not necessary to raise the limb higher. As it is important that ■ the Achilles’ tendon should not be compressed, two pieces of the same compress should I therefore be previously laid on both sides of it. The lower part of the splint, which I bends over the sole of the foot, is fixed within a circular bandage. As till the complete ; drying of the apparatus, displacements easily occur, straw splints are usually applied I by means of straw splint cloth, and the whole firmly bound with rollers, as in the . common contentive apparatus. The assistants, who have hitherto kept up extension and . counter-extension may now let go the limb. If the fracture be very oblique and the ! fractured ends easily separate, a sling must be applied at the lower part of the limb by I means of a double bandage, fastened on both sides of the foot and leg, and connected at ; its end with bags, more or less full of sand, which are allowed to hang down over 1 the foot of the bed, in order that in the perfectly horizontal position of the patient, a . continued extension may be kept up, by which necessarily the counter-extension can be I made to operate, not merely by the simple weight of the body, but also by a cloth folded I longitudinally, carried between the thighs, and fixed to the bed’s head. On the day : after the drying of the apparatus, the straw splint-cloth and the straw splints are to be I removed, and a circular bandage applied from the foot to the hip. Two or three days : after the patient may be allowed to go with crutches, in which case the foot should be r supported by a bandage slung round the neck. 685. In transverse fractures in the middle of the thigh a simple appa- I tus with splints and the limb put straight are sufficient. In fractures of 1 the upper and lower third, the half-bent position is preferable on account I of the special displacement of the broken ends {par. 682) ; and in fracture h in the upper third immediately under the great trochanter, a position < approaching the sitting posture is preferable, because thereby only can ] the lower end be kept in corresponding position with the upper end of the \ : fracture. But it must be here observed whether the fracture be not so « near the joint and connected with such injury tliat stiffness will ensue in 6 I which case the straight position with or without tension according- to cir- H cumstances must be employed. The half-bent position of Bell and 1 Cooper is preferable to Pott’s posture on the side. I 686. In oblique fracture this treatment is rarely sufficient, as the « broken surfaces after having been apposed cannot be kept in contact. 11 In these ca.ses tlie permanent extension is necessary, and in fractures in