FiECULAR FISTULA. 718 a part of the faecal matter, wliilst the rest passes by tlie natural liassag^i^i or by which all the excrement passes, and tlien the disease is called an i j unnatural or artificial anus (^Anus preetcrnaturalis, artijicialis.') Tlie ex- ■ ■ ternal opening is mostly round, contracted, and surrounded with radiatfid I creases of skin; its edges are red and irritable; frequently there are- several external openings leading to one canal: for the most part, the skin ! is firmly attached to the muscles, it is rarely degenerated, raised from the ■ • muscles, and forming a canal; the ends of tlie bowel are frequently con- nected directly with the peritoneum ; frequently they are retracted, and the ■ peritoneum forms a funnel-like elongation. 915. The effect of the fiecular fistula, and in a more advanced degree of the artificial anus, upon the whole organism, is very decided. By the escape of the chyle, which passes only through a part of the intestinal canal, is the nourishment lessened, though the appetite be great, and the patient quickly wastes, especially at first. The nearer the artificial anus I is to the stomach, the more severe are these symptoms. If it be fur- ther down, at the lower end of the ileum or in the colon, more decided stools are passed, and the nourishment is not so much affected. By the continuance of the out-flow, the parts excoriate and become very painfuL The mucous membrane of the intestine exposed to the air becomes redder, and less villous, but does not cease to secrete a large quantity of mucus. In I artificial anus merely mucous fluid of a white colour, and varying consist- i ence, which is secreted from the large intestines, passes through the rectunt. i The lower part of the intestinal canal gradually contracts together, but retains its permeability. Begin (g) has, however, observed an almost j complete closing and wasting of the lower portion of the intestine. [Asteev Cooper(6) mentions the case of a man “with a strangulated umbilical hernia, which sloughed, and occasioned an artificial anus. As he was recovering from the effects of the strangulation and sloughing, and was allowed to take food in any con- siderable quantity, it was observed that part of what solids he ate passed out at the artificial anus within half an hour after he had swallowed them, and that fluids passed out in ten minutes after they had been taken into the stomach. Although he took sufficient food to support a healthy person, he wasted rapidly, and died in three weeks;. On examining his body after death, and tracing the jejunum, the lower part of that intestine was found entering the hernial sac, and in it the opening was situated.” (p. 52.)] 916. Not unfrequently a prolapse of the intestine is produced sud- denly in artificial antes, as a consequence of sti-aiuing, or gradually by ensheathing, which often attains considerable size (nine inches and more.) It occurs mostly only at one end of the intestine, has usually a more or less conical form, is contracted at the base, and its point has an opening through which the stools escape. The protruded part has a red colour, is well moistened witli mucus, and usually is not very sensitive; frequently a peristaltic motion is observed, as in the intestines, and at first it is so contractile that tlie slightest touch causes retraction; it increases with straining, and diminishes or entirely recedes in the horizontal posture, or with sufficient pressure. The constant irritation to which it is exposed, thickens and renders it like the external tegument; it even becomes blackish. The protrusion may form adhesions witli the opening from which it projects, and may even become strangulated. If the protrusion be of the lower end of the intestine, there escapes from it only a white, mucus- like fluid ; but the stools pass out from tlie side of its base. If both upiier («) Doi-uytben, Lecons Orales, p. 211. (6) U>ctures on Surgery, vol. Hi. Tvbrei.'s Edit.