460 TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS OF [“ In a penetrating wound of tlie abdomen,” says Hennen, “ wliether by gun-shot or by a cutting instrument, if no protrusion of intestine take place, and this, it must be observed, in musket or pistol wounds rarely occurs, the lancet, with its powerful con- comitants, abstinence and rest, particularly in the supine posture, are our chief depend- ence. Great pain and tension, which usually accompany these wounds, must 1k' relieved by leeches to the abdomen, if they can be procured, (their application to the anus, so as to unload the hcemorrhoidal vessels, is much practised on the continent, in Russia especi- ally, and is often attended with remarkable relief,) by the topical application of fomen- tations, and the warm bath j and if any internal medicine is given as a purgative, it must, for obvious reruns, be of the mildest nature. The removal of the ingesta, as a source of irritation, is best effected by frequently repeated oleaginous clysters ; indeed, on the first infliction of a wound of the abdomen, the contents of the intestinal canal and stomach are generally evacuated spontaneously by vomiting, and soon followed by stools, which are sometimes tinged with blood; their accumulation must be guarded against by a rigorous diet; for to the general state of fulness of the vessels induced by food, is added its local and mechanical stimulus in the undigested form.” (pp. 401, 402.)] 516. Penetrating wounds of the belly may be connected, 1, with pro- trusion of the intestines; 2, with injury of the bowels; 3, with effusion into the cavity of the belly. 517. In every penetrating wound of the belly, although its extent be but small, the caul or the intestines protrude. The protruding part either lies loosely in the wound, or is firmly grasped by it; and it is found either in its natural condition, or highly inflamed, and even mortified. It must be returned as quickly as possible into the cavity of the belly, and its further protrusion prevented. The patient should be placed in such position as will relax the abdominal muscles, and the intestines, by their own weight, will be kept from the wound. If the protruded parts be soiled, they must be washed with lukewarm water, and pushed by the two fore fingers, moistened with warm water, according to the direction of the wound, back into the belly, the patient at the same time making a long expiration. That part of the intestine last protruded must be first returned, the mesen- tery before the intestine, and the latter before the caul. The returned part must also be kept back with one finger whilst another portion is pushed in with the other. After the reduction, the fore finger must be introduced into the cavity of the belly, to be sure that the intestine have not passed into the interspaces of the muscles. The wound of the wall of the belly is to be treated according to the previous rules; the patient put in such posture as that the intestines should least press against the w'ound, and in- flammation should be prevented by strict antiphlogistic treatment. 518. Should it not be possible to return the intestine in the way directed, because it is filled with air and faeces, or is protruded in very large quantity, and girt by the wound, it must be diminished by gentle com- pression, a portion of it drawn out of the belly, and then returned. If this do not succeed, the wound must be enlarged, just so much as needful to make the reduction possible. This enlargement is most conveniently made at the upper angle of the wound, because it is more free and because the intestines are not so easily again protruded if the wound be enlarged upwards as when downwards. Only when the upper angle corresponds to the white line, or to the suspending ligament of the liver, must the lower angle be preferred for enlargement. The wound should be en- larged in the following manner: the bowel is to be pressed aside with the left hand, whilst with the right a blunt director is introtluced be- tween the bowel and the edge of the wound, into the cavity of the belly, and held with the fore finger and thumb of the left hand, with its handle depressed. The intestine is next to be slightly raised, for the purpose of