AMPUTATION. 347 J wine, warmth, volatiles; he soothes and he encourages; and when due reaction is esta- || blished, he performs that humane operation, the utility and necessity of which are now 1^ confiniiod beyond the possibility of doubt or the influence ol cavil, (pp- 45, 6.) ?« “ Inflammation in the seat of the injury,” Guthrie further observes, “ comes on at jj an indeterminate period, varying in different people. When the injury is high in the S thigh, it commences sooner than in the leg or arm, and the symptomatic fever accom- ■ panying it is proportionally severe. If, then, after an injury where the alarm has been I very great, and the powers of life considerably diminished, so as to have prevented an I operation shortly after the accident, some little reaction should take place, the patient I should become restless, the pulse quickened, the parts injured painful, the operation should be no longer delayed; for the removal of the diseased parts can only moderate this nervous commotion and prevent delirium and death. * * * If the operation be delayed beyond the first twenty-four hours in some persons, and in others thirty-six hours, pain, heat, tumefaction, and the other constituents of inflammation come on rapidly, attended by increased arterial action, severe nervous twitchings, thirst, heat of skiu, general restlessness, delirium, and the patient is soon carried ofl if the injury has been extensive. Many very severe wounds do not terminate so quickly; the symptoms exist in a less degree, and may be moderated by the antiphlogistic treatment until sup- puration is established, and the primary high excitement reduced within the limits of hectic fever depending upon the irritation of incurable parts. “ In any period from the time inflammation has commenced in the seat of injury, and symptomatic fever is established, amputation is performed under very different circum- stances than when it has been done prior to their supervention ; the parts to be divided are no longer in a healthy state; they have taken on inflammatory action tending to suppuration, and will not unite by adhesive inflammation, as they would have done if they had been divided forty-eight hours sooner. The operation, instead of relieving the symptomatic fever, greatly increases it. It is now really a violence superadded to the injury; and the patient dies, unless very active means are employed for his relief, and even under the most vigorous and attentive treatment it frequently proves fatal, although his life may be prolonged for some days.” (pp. 219, 20.)] 350. If amputation be not indicated by the nature of the wound, it is impossible to determine whether and by what consecutive symptoms it may be at a later period required. These symptoms may be: 1. Mortifica- tion of the limb.—2. Nervous symptoms, convulsions of the stump, te- tanus, when the cause remains in the wound, and cannot in any way be removed.—3. Exhausting suppuration.—4. Bleeding from the whole sur- face of the wound, whicli cannot be stanched. As to the indications for amputation after shot-wounds, and the time at which it should be performed, the following writers are to be especially compared:— Bilguer, Dissert, de membrorum amputatione rarissimh administranda aut quasi abroganda. Hallae, 1761. 4to. The Treatises of Faure, Leconte and Grillion upon the question, L’amputation Ee'tant absolument necessaire dans les plaies compliquees de fracas des os, et principale- ment celles qui sont faites par armes h feu, determiner le cas ou il faut faire I’amputa- tion sur le champ, et ceux ou il convient de le difierer, et en donner les raisons; in the I Prix de I’Academie de Chirurgie. I Larrey, Mdmoire sur les Amputations; in Mdm. de Chirurg. Milit., vol. ii. p. 451. I Schneider, Ueber die Amputation grosser Glieder nach Schusswunden. Leipz ,1807 8vo. I Wagner, Versuch einer niibern Bestimmung der Indicationen zur Amputation der t griisseren Gliedmassen, besonders nach Schusswunden, in von Graefe und Waether’s t Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenbeilkuude, vol. i. p. 139. Hutchiton, Copeland, Some further Observations on the subject of the proper period of amputating in Gunshot Wounds. London, 1818. Ibid. Practical Observations in Surgery. 2nd Edit. London, 1826. Bust, Ueber die Amputation grdsscrer Gliedmassen; in his Magazin, vol. vii. p. 337. ' Guthrie, G. J., A Treatise on Gunshot Wounds, etc., quoted at head of Article.