572 FRACTUUKS OF THE THIGH-BONE and the proper neck of the tliigh-bone does not participate therein, (width fracture nui)’^ happen at every period of life,) it is characterized by the fol- lowing appearances:—the extremity is very little and frequently not at all shortened; it is stiff; the patient is incapable of turning himself in bed without assistance, and the attempt always causes great pain ; the broken part of the trochanter is in many cases drawn forwards towards the hip. bone, in others it sinks against the tuber ischii, but is ordinarily far sepa- rated from that part of the great trochanter which remains connected with the neck; the foot is turned very much outwards, the patient cannot sit, and the attempt always causes severe pain; crepitation is difficult to l)e discovered, when the trochanter either sinks much backwards or is drawn much forwards. This fracture requires the same treatment as that for fractured neck of the thigh-bone, and unites firmly. A. Cooper (a) gives a proper bandage, which consists of a broad cloth, enclosing the hips, and sewn together ; at the point where it passes under the great trochanter, it i* widened with a piece let in, and padded; behind the great trochanter a wedge-like pad is to be placed, so that when the bandage is sewn the trochanter may be kept in place. At the same time a thick wedge shaped pillow is to be put under the upper part of the thigh, and the foot fastened in such Avay that it cannot turn either inwards or outwards. B.—OF THE FRACTUKE OF THE THIGH-BONE BELOW THE GREAT TROCHANTER. Pott, P., General Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations; in his Works, vol. i. Edition of 1783. Richter, C. F., De situ femoris crurisque fracti laterali minus apto. Lipsiae. 1788. 8vo. Desault, 03uvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. p. 219. Bell, C., A System of Operative Surgery founded on the basis of Anatomy. 2 vols. London, 1807-9. 8vo. Sadter, above cited. 681. This fracture happens either in the upper, middle or loxver third of the thigh-bone ; but is most common in the middle. Its cause is either violence acting directly on the thigh, or a fall upon the knee or foot; in the former case it is always accompanied with much bruising, frequently with splintering. The direction of the fracture is in old subjects mostly oblique ; in young persons and children usually transverse. 682. The signs are, fixed pain at the seat of fracture, sudden incajia- bility of the patient to move the thigh, unnatural motion in its continuity, deformity of the limb in reference to its length, thickness and natural direction ; distinct crepitation on moving the thigh. The upper fractured end is drawn less upwards and forwards in fracture of the upper than in that of the middle third ; the lower end is drawn backwards and upwards at the same time ; the lower end is turned out- wards, partly by the contraction of the muscles, partly by the proper wei^t of the limb. If the broken surfaces do not touch, the limb is shortens, especially if the fracture be very oblique. In transverse fractures, specially in young persons, the broken surfaces often remain in actual contact, and the thigh is curved forwards by the contraction of the muscles. In fracture in the lower third, which are mostly oblique, the lower end is drawn bac - wards towards the ham and the condyle upwards, in consequence of winch the knee assumes a peculiar form, and the point of the upper fractured en may penetrate the m. rectus and through the skin. (n) Above cittnl, p. 158.