299 WITH THE TOURNIQUET. I tourniquet is also a screw tourniquet, is usually considered as the inventor of the latter. The screw tourniquet is most convenient wlien the upper br^s- t plate is connected by two or four steel rods with the under one, by which the upper plate is steadied whilst tlie screw is twisted. Upon the history of the tourniquet and its various modifications Kki.lie, Observations on the Medical Effects of Compression by the Toumiquet. ;■ Edinburgh, 1797. 8vo. Westphalen, Dissert, sistens Tornaculorum criticem atque novam ex emendatione ( recentiori speciem. Jena;, 1800. Krombolz, Abhandlungen aus Gebiete der gesammten Akologie. Mit 9 lithogr. q Tafeln. Prag. 1825. 4to. p. 1-120. Klein and Ditpuytren’s Compressor. 284. In the application of the tourniquet, the position of the artery must y be first ascertained, on the upper arm, at the inner edge of the m. biceps; (1 on the thigh, in the triangular space between the m. addactor and vastus i intemus; also above the knee in the hollow formed by the tendons of the .i m. biceps on the outer, and of the semitendinosus and semimembranosus on K the inside ; the pad is then, at either of these parts, to be closely placed q upon the track of the artery, and the bandage having been carried over it, c and around the limb, its two ends (which, in Morell’s tourniquet, are to 9 be passed through the slits in the leather plate) are tied upon it, then twisted r with the twisting-stick, and the latter fastened by means of small strings. (I In the screw-tourniquet, however, the bandage is drawn together by means ’ of the buckle; and the tourniquet itself, of which the two plates must be i screwed down, so as to touch each other, must be put upon the side of the limb opposite to the pad, where a compress, or piece of leather or paste- board, should be put to relieve tlie severe pressure. In twisting the screw, tlie lower plate must be fixed with the hand, and the slipping of the pad prevented. The degree of compression is to be measured by the cessation of pulsation below the tourniquet, or by the cessation of the Iileeding, which may be taking place. A sufficiently stout pad is preferable to a roller or a graduated compress. [In applying the screw tourniquet, I think it better to adjust the pad beneath the lower plate of the screw, as the pressure is more steady and direct when the one is below the other. It is better also that one end of the tourniquet bandage should have a buckle to fasten by buckling rather than by tying, as there is less chance of the appa- ratus slipping.—J. F. S.] 285. In cases where a tourniquet cannot be applied, and where pressure may be long continued, without compression of the whole limb, special compressors are proposed, that of Langenbeck (a) and Verdier (Z») for the external iliac artery ; of Mohrenheim (c) and Dahl (c?) for the sub- clavian ; of Wegehausen (e) and Moore (/) for the upper and lower limbs; and of Graefe {g) for bleeding from the palm of the hand. To this subject also belong the different kinds of compressors which have been proposed for wounded brachial artery, at the bend of the elbow, by Scultetos, Heister, Dionis, Plattner, Brambilla, Desault, Leber, Ayres, and so on; for the temporal artery,' by Bell; in bleeding from the veins of the neck, by Chabert; from the tongue, by (a) Bibliothek fur die Chirurgie, vol. i. part ii. plate ii. in AppareilCompressifde I’Ar- (e) Rust’s Magazin, vol. ii. , etc. I’aris, 1823. (/) Bernstein Systematis (5) Memoire sur un tire lliaque exteme, < fc) Beobachtungen verschiedenen chirurg. Vor Rile, Wien, 1780, vol. i. pi. i. fig. 6, 7. (dj Platner's Zusatze zu seines Vater’s Chi rorgic, pi. iii. fig. 3. part iii. pi. iv. V. vi. - Systematiscne Darstellung des chirurg. Verbandes, pi. x. fig. 104, 10.5, 106. (l7) In Journal liir Cliirurgie und Augenheil- kundc, vol. xvii. p. 305.