SYMPTOMS AND EFFECTS 356 readily propagated to the remotest parts of the system.” (p. 107.) And subsequently he asks, “ Does not this very sudden appearance of the nausea and vomiting seem to render it probable that the poison of the rattlesnake exerts considerable effects on the nervous matter of animals.” {note, p. 110.) That it does sometimes so act upon the nervous system cannot be doubted, for in some of the cases mentioned by Kussell the bitten person died in a few minutes, and in one almost instantaneously, so that there could not lave been time either for the absorption of the poison into the blood or its difiusion through the body by the blood-vessels. ® The following are the symptoms given by Barton as following a rattlesnake’s bite. “ When the poison of the rattlesnake has actually been introduced into the general mass of blood it begins to exert its most alarming and characteristic effects. A considerable degree of nausea is a very early symptom. {Note. It is remarkable that a nausea, aud : sometimes a vomiting, is induced in many cases in a few minutes after the poison has f been thrown into a muscular part, and long before it can possibly have entered the blood- - vessels, through the medium of the absorbent lymphatics; or, admitting that it has - been introduced directly into a blood-vessel, before this active poison can have effected t in the general mass any change whatever. Does not this sudden appearance of the i- nausea and vomiting seem to render it probable that the poison of the rattlesnake exerts • considerable effects on the nervous matter of animals ?) We now discover an evident i alteration in the pulse; it becomes full, strong, and greatly agitated. The whole lx)dy i begins to swell: the eyes become so entirely suffused, that it is difficult to discover the t smallest portion of the adnata that is not painted with blood. In many instances there « is an hemorrhagy of blood from the eyes, and likewise from the nose and ears; and so o great is the change induced in the mass of blood, that large quantities of it are sometimes H thrown out on the surface of the body in the form of sweat; the teeth vacillate in thdr rj sockets, whilst the pain and groans of the unhappy sufferer too plainly inform us that ai the extinction of life is at hand. In this stage of its action, aud even before it has af induced the most alarming of the symptoms which I have mentioned, the powers of medicine can do little to check the rapid and violent progress of this poison.” (p. 110.) i Professor Owen informs me, that in 1840 he saw in the military hospital near Ply- i mouth, a soldier, who having in a piece of bravado put a viper’s head in his mouth, was, v as might have been expected, bitten in the tongue, which soon swelled so much that K respiration was almost entirely prevented, and also the introduction of any medicbe u, into the stomach by the mouth. He did not see the termination of the case, nor is he aware of the treatment; but he believes the man recovered. This is the only instance f rattlesnake-bite in this country with which I am acquainted, except the following < case which came under Home’s care some years since in St. George’s Hospital, and is an a instance of death resulting from slough of the cellular tissue of the limb (o). A spare man, aged twenty-six years, in attempting to take his rule from a rattlesnake’s cage, into which he had dropped it whilst attempting to irritate the animal, was bitten twice,- Oct. 17, 1829, half past 2, p.m., receiving two wounds on the back of the first joint' of the thumb, and two on the second joint of the fore finger. He went to a chemist in the neighbourhood, who, considering him in a state of intoxication, (which, however, did I not appear to have been the case,) gave him a dose of jalap and applied some slight'I remedy to the bites. No swelling in the hand had then appeared; but it speedily com-: I menced, and when he reached St. George’s Hospital, half-an-hour after, the swellingi I had extended half way up the fore arm; the skin on the back of the hand was very ■ tense, and the part very painful. In an hour after the swelling had reached half w.iy il up the arm, and the pain had extended into the arm-pit. The skin was cold ; pulse, I and he complained of sickness. Aq. ammon. pur. ii^xx. spir. eether. vitriol, n^xxx. I mist, camph. jj. were given but rejected. The wounds were bathed with aq. ammon. pur. ■ and the whole limb with camphorated spirit. At 5, p.m., he took spir. ammon. camph ■ 3ij. ather. n^xxx. mist, camph. Jj., which was retained. An hour and a half after, n« ■ pulse having become very feeble, eether. et aq. ammon. pur. aa. nf^xx. ex aqua won ■ given and repeated at the next hour. At 9, p.m., he felt greatly depressed, his skin wa» ■ cold, pulse 80, and weak; the dose of both medicines was increased to fifty drop^ ano ■ repeated. In rather more than an hour after, the pain had become very violent in tn ■ arm ; and, though his pulse was stronger, he was attacked witli fainting evei^' fifteo) ■ minutes, but the pulse was not visibly depressed. At half-past 11 the swelling involY' ■ the whole arm up to the arm-pit; the arm was quite cold, aud the surface generaU.- ■ unusually cold, and no pulse could be felt in any part of it. He was then pcrfectl. ■ collected ; but, an hour aud a half after, talked indistinctly. ■ (a) The Case of a Man wlio died in consequence tlie EITccta produced by the Poison; in Phil. Tran ■ of the Bite of a llattlesnako; with an Account of 1830, p. 75. H