546 FRACTURES OF as soon as possible; for which purpose the patient must be much bent ; backwards, and a pillow laid beneath his back. If the setting cannot ho in this way effected, and the symptoms are pressing, the seat of fracture 1 must be laid bare, and tlie replacement of the displaced ends of the bone . effected with an elevator ; and if this be insufficient, the edge of tlie fracture must be first removed by means of the lenticular, or perforation of the breastf j bone must be made. This, however, has been objected to by Charles Bell and others as useless, inasmuch as to the existing injury a new one is added, without advantage, which my own experience has also confirmed;^ ' If, after complete replacement, the one end of the fracture have a dLspo* sition to become displaced, it must be kept in its proper position by means of a graduated compress and breast-band, which Dopuytren endeavours to effect by a splint upon the breast-bone, and Gunther by a splint fastened upon the chest with starch bandage. If such fracture be cured without the broken ends of the bone being brought into place, constant cough, oppression, and distressing palpitation of the heart are produced. The general treatment must be directed according to the injuries accompanying the fracture and the inflammatory condition of the organs in the cliest Collections of blood and pus behind the breast-bone render the application of the trepan necessary. [I do not know any instance in which the severe synnptoms here enumerated have occurred in fracture of the breast-bone ; and I should not be disposed to perform any operation for raising the depressed end of the bone, for the reasons assigned by Charl^ Bell, and also because I should fear that the violence which would drive the breast- bone in so as to produce such severe symptoms, would have caused such other serioni t mischief as to render the operation useless, and therefore not permissible.—J. F. S.] -J t IX.—OF FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. {Fractura Costarum, Lat.; Bruch der Rippen, Germ.; Fracture des Cotes, Fr.) 626. Fracture of the Ribs most commonly happens to the lower true • ribs, as the false ribs by their mobility yield to the external violence, and I the upper true ones are protected by the collar-bones. The ribs usually » break at their most convex part. The cause of fracture is either violence ? which thrusts the ribs from before backwards, or which squeezes them il inwards at their middle; in the former case the ends of the fracture pro- -! ject out, and in the latter inwards, by which the pleura or the lungs (1) >' are wounded, and inflammation of them, extravasation into the cavity of t the chest and emphysema are produced. The broken surfeces are mostly oblique, and more or less uneven. ' That severe cough can produce a broken rib, which has been wrongly denied, is shown by a case in the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, 1833, July, p. 35.'i, in which the fracture of a rib happened to a woman of forty-seven years old, t. during a severe fit of coughing. A pain, however, connected with displacement or tear- ing of some muscular fibres caused by severe cough, is not to be confounded with that e, just mentioned. [(1) The heart is sometimes penetrated by the end of a broken rib, of which, in St. t Thomas’s Museum, there is an example in the following Case.—A. B. was admitted into George’s Ward, _ . ^ . June 3, 1839, 9 a m., having been a short time previously run over by his own cart He was able to walk from the gate to the surgery, a distance of about a hundr^ yards, but complained of difficulty in breatliing. The fourth and fiftli ribs of the left side were found to be fractured, and a bruise of the soft parts at the same spot. He lived only nine hours, and seemed to die of suffocation. On examination much bl(^ was fOToU ^ poured out'beneath the skin covering the chest, principally on the left side; but mere i were also some clots on the right side. The first piece of the breast-bone was broko>- ■