773 OF THE VERTEBRA. 1009. The turning and movement of the Iiead is, for the most part, eftectal by tlie connexion of the second witii tlie first vertebra, by which tlie latter, with the head, moves round the tooth-like process of the former, upon a pivot. In forcible bending of the head forwards, the ligament astening it to the tooth-like process may be torn, so that that process drives lirectly°into the spinal canal. This dislocation always requires very con- siderable violence, and is not very possible in adults, in which case there is previous fracture of the tooth-like process. In rotation of the head, the ateral ligaments of this process are stretched, and if this motion be carried to a dangerous extent, they may be torn, and the process carried beneath the transverse ligament of the first vertebra into the spinal canal. In hildren in whom the tooth-like process is still low, and the ligaments less firm, they may be torn by violence when the head is drawn directly pwards. The violent circumstances which can produce dislocation of the econd vertebra are, a fall from a great height upon the head, a violent low, or the fall of a heavy body on the nape, standing and turning about he head, and lifting up children by the head. By the intrusion of he tooth-like process into the spinal canal, pressure and tearing of the .pinal marrow are produced, and help is impossible Cases, however, eem to be known, in which only the lateral ligaments of the tooth-like Tocess liave been torn by violence and tlie patient has lived in this state dthough the process was still held but by the transverse ligament (a). 1010. The connexion of the last Jive neck vertebrae allows the inclina- ion of the neck forwards, to the side, and a rotatory motion, by which, f carried to a violent extent, the joint-surfaces of the oblique processes ••et free from contact, are pushed against each other, and cannot be eturned to their natural position. Hitherto, this dislocation has been nly known on one side, as a consequence of external violence or of strong isting of the muscles. If at the same time there be severe pain at the at of dislocation, the head turned towards the opposite side, and fixed in his position, the muscles which move the head are not spasmodically con- acted, the spinous processes deviate from their natural position, from the at of dislocation up to the head. Walther (Z>) has observed the simul- neous dislocation of both inferior oblique processess of one of the middle eck vertebrae, and from this case has given the symptoms of such disloca- ions. The head is turned back, and the neck so bent, that the original line nns a curve, of which the convexity is forwards and the concavity back- wards, the front parts of the vertebra are more separated, but the spinous recesses at the same time are pushed one upon another. Such dislocation lay, as Walther’s case proves, happen without any dangerous effect on le spinal marrow ; but there may occur with it, as well as with every other jury of the vertebral column, eflPects on the spinal marrow dangerous to fe, as pressure, tearing, inflammation, and the like, and death may be nmediate or soon consequent. i Dopuytren (c) guards against the possibility of confusing such dislocation with leumatic affection of the neck, which, from some straining or violent motion of the ead, often comes on with severe pain, impossibility of motion, and the head directed ■ one side, just as it may occur, under similar circumstances, at any part of the spine (as the so-called crick in the neck.) (а) I)Et,PECH,Precis cleraentaire,&c.vol.iii.p.47. (б) ticber die Verrenkung der Ilalswirbel nach enen Beobactungen ; in his Journal fur Chi- rgie iind Augenheilkunde, vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 197. Lawrence, W., On Dislocations of the Ver- tebrse ; in Med.-Chir.Trans, vol.xiii. p. 387. (c) Dela Luxation de.s Vertebres et des Maladies qul la simulent j in Lecons Orales, vol. i. p. 397.