567 THIGH-BONE—UNION. V )ony union maj' take place in these cases (a). That this has liitherto in h ^ng'land been little observed may depend on the very careless treatment ;i (f fractures known to be within tlie capsular ligament. Ihe condition of 1 die head of the thigli-bone has nothing to do with it, but rather the difR- /i’ulty of keeping the fractured ends for a proper time in sufficient contact; j|-'re(|uently, in complete tearing of the fibrous covering of the neck of the I’ high-bone, or in bad constitution, or old age, of the patient, is the union of I lie broken ends often protracted or entirely prevented. Sometimes the 9 ipper end is enclosed by bony masses growing from the lower end; and t hough commonly considerable mobility remains, yet the motions of the 4 imb are very much interfered with. Tlie broken ends are often connected 4;3y a fibrous mass wliich is not sufficiently firm to sustain the weight of tbody ; the lameness is considerable, and the shortening of the limb [iually increases. The broken ends frequently wear away by rubbing inst each otlier ; suppuration in the cavity of the joint takes place, and th soon follows. Sometimes, if one or other of the broken ends be de.vorn by rubbing, and both surfaces become like ivory, a cartilaginous •jjjfapsule is formed by the thickening of the fibrous covering of the neck of H he thigh-bone for the reception of the lower piece of bone, which is Jf^pable of supporting the weight of the body. In V. Soemmering’s rich collection there is a preparation of a fracture within the ipsular ligament closely united by callus. I possess a similar one, which I had treated n an old woman. The kinds of union just mentioned have been confirmed by Colles’ observations on uleven cases (6). Cruvelhieu (c) supposes that the callus is produced by ossification of the parts 'ounding the broken ends, of the periosteum, and of the muscles, which at first become ilaginous and afterwards bony. Hence it follows that the broken bone which on one ;ide only is covered with soft parts, upon that only enjoys a bony union, and that when |ao soft parts lie around the broken parts of the bone, no union by bony substance takes ilace. In the former condition are the knee-cap and olechranon, in the latter the neck f the thigh-bone, [In St Bartholomew’s Museum there are several cases of fractured neck of the thigh- ine within the capsule united by ligament. The two following cases prove beyond all doubt the possibility of bony union in frac- ve of the neck of Sie thigh-bone, and put an end to the disputes upon this subject ywhich had been long and angrily held by English Surgeons. a Case 1 was Swan’s patient, a woman of eighty years, who having fallen down, * he “ believed there was a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, although the limb re- 's mained quite as long as the other, and he could neither perceive any crepitus nor any n altered appearance in its position, except a slight inclination of the toes outwards.” 8 (p.l5.) She died five weeks after the accident; and on examination it appeared that “ the l| greatest part of the fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which was entirely within # the cap,sular ligament, was firmly united. A section was made through the fractured < part, and a faint white line was perceived in one portion of the union, but the rest t appeared to be entirely bone.” (p. 17.) This preparation is in the Museum of the • Royal College of Surgeons. ^ Case 2 is related by Stanley (c). A young man of eighteen years fell from the top Dei.peoh, .7., alx)ve cited. (6) Fractures of the neck of tlie Femur, illus- trated by dissections ; in Dublin Hospital Reports, 1818, vol. ii. p. 334. A (a) BhOnninohausen, above cited, fig. 2, 4. S Liston ; in Edinburgh Medicaland Surgical Jour- * n»l, April, 1820, p. 212. ^ neue Bibliothek fur Chirurgie und O^thalmologie, vol. iii. p. 121. Beobie ; in Edinburgh Med. and Phys. Jour. L Eabi.e, above cited, d .1 ®"VLATOPK, A case of Fracture of the neck of ' 1«V5 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. p. 51.1. Lakostatf, G., in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii « Pt. 11. p. 487. j' „ ^“U'lhiich der Lelire von den Bruchen und Verreiikiingen, p.314. (c) Anatomie Pathologiqiie, pt. xxiii. pi. 1, 2. Bapeh, in Heidelberger klinischen Annalen, vol. iii. pt. i. p. 155.—Howship, J., in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix. 1. London, 1835. (d) An Essay on Tetanus, &c. London, 1825. 8vo. (c) Case of bony union of a Fracture of the Neck of the Femur, within the Capsule, occurring in a young subject; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xviii. 1833.