331 PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 323. Flap wounds must always be brought together very closely, and the flaps kept, by due pressure, in connexion with the surface of the wound. Several stitches are commonly employed, the union maintained with stick- ing plaster, the entire flap covered with charpie and compresses, and the whole properly kept together with a bandage. If suppuration take place, its collection and burrowing must be prevented by a suitable compressing bandage, by counter-openings, and so on. 324. If a part have been completely separated from the body, the replace- ment of such separated piece is always indicated, as the possibility of its healing is fully confirmed by experience. But the union of such a piece must be very close, the vital activity and the natural warmth must not have been completely lost. It is best fixed with several stitches, and its close application must be assisted with a bandage. It is of the greatest importance that the bleeding should be perfectly stanched before its adap- tation, and, if possible, without pressure. Warm applications of wine, or of cotton dipped in aromatics, are serviceable in exciting the vital activity. Bluish, blackish discoloration, loss of the cuticle, and partial gangrene of the reapplied part, should not induce us to loosen the stitches, as, notwith- standing these symptoms, union may take place. If there be loss of sub- stance in the wound of a part where the skin is very movable, it may often be covered by drawing together the skin from both sides of the wound. If a piece of this kind do not heal on, the wound must be treated according to the rules already laid down (par. 319.) Of the many cases known of the reunion of perfectly separated parts, which have been mostly collected by Wiesmann, and increased with observations of his own in his work, De Coalitu Partium k reliquo Corpore prorsus Disjunctarum, Lipsise, 1824, I would specially refer to the following:— Fioravanti, II Tresore deUa Vita Umana. Vinez., 1570. Garengeot, Traite des Operations de Chirurgie. 2 vols. Paris, 1720. 8vo. Carpoe, J. C., An Account of Two successful Operations for restoring a Lost Nose from the Integuments of the Forehead j with Remarks on the Nasal Operation, London, 1816. 4to. Busch in Rust’s Magazin, vol. vi. p. 2. Bunger in Graefe and Walther’s Journal, vol. vi. part iv. VON Walther, Ibid., vol. ii. part iv., vol. vii. part iv. Markiewitz, Ibid., vol. vii. part iv. Dieffenbach, Ibid., vol. vi. parts i. iii. Hoffacker, in Heidelberger klinischen Annalen, vol. iv. p. 149. Richerand, Nosographie Chirurgicale, vol. i. Diefenbach, Chirurg. Erfahrungen iiber die Wiederherstellung Zerstorter Theile u. s. w,, vol. i. part ii. p. 153. II.—OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. ( Vulnera puncta, Lat.; Stichwunden, Germ. Plaies par instrumens piquans, Fr.) 325. Punctured wounds are those produced with a narrow, pointed in- strument, and in which such parts only are divided as are opposed to Its point. The division by a puncture may be as clean and simple as that from a cut, if the instrument be flat, cutting on both edges, and not thick In most cases, however, more or less dragging and tearing are produced bv the penetration of the thick part of the instrument; thrust wounds are