AND LUMBAR ABSCESS. 191 bursfin<T or being opened, at once empty themselves; and I apprehend that when the sac inflames and hectic fever comes on, the cause is rather in the irritable state of the constitution than in the emptying of the abscess. I am not prepared to say, nor would I advise a lar"-e puncture and the immediate emptying of the abscess; but, from repeated observation of the practice of others, corresponding to my own above described, viz., the gradual evacuation, either by bursting or by a moderately large puncture, I am convinced that this plan of proceedings is the best.—J. f. s. The issues are to be still kept up, even after the puncture has been made, for the pur- pose of diverting the original disease, as already mentioned; and this practice^ is in accordance witli Abernethv’s recommendation, that “ an issue should be made in the loins, which is likely to be beneficial by its counter-irritation, even when the abscess is not connected with diseased bone; but, when it is, then an issue will be more serviceable and necessary.” (p. 151.) As regards injecting the sinuous cavities into which, after a time, these abscesses are converted, Pearson states, that “ some of the older writers forbid the use of injections in the lumbar abscess; but their reasons seem to be founded upon mistaken ideas of the true situation of the disease. Solutions of copper, vitriol, or even tepid sea water may sometimes be applied in this way with considerable advantage.” (pp. 103, 4.) Asteey CooPBRi also says, he “ has seen benefit from injecting the abscess, (I presume when it has become fistulous,—J. f. s.) : the injection usually employed is the sulphate of zine or alumen; it promotes the adhesive process in the interior of the abscess, glues its sides together, and lessens the purulent secretion.” (p. 461.) Dupuytren states “ that cauteri- zation may be employed advantageously; but the actual cautery must be straight and exactly run through the canal. In other cases it may be convenient to have recourse to injections of nitrate of silver, or of nitric acid, largely diluted with water, taking care that these liquids do not escape in their course. For these injections he employs twenty or thirty grains, or a drachm of nitrate of silver to a pint of distilled water, and injects it with a siphonous syringe.” (p. 148.) 184. There is danger when the cavity of the abscess inflames after the discharge of the pus; and attempts must be made to diminish the inflam- mation by quiet, by suitable antiphlogistic treatment, and by discharge of the pus. If symptoms of hectic fever are indicated, or the opening of the abscess become fistulous, (the cause of which may be some internal process still going on, such as caries of the lumbar vertebrae or thickening of the walls of the abscess,) the powers of the patient must be supported as much as possible, and, if a general cause can be found out, we must endeavour to counteract it. [When the cavity of the abscess is inflamed it is known by the great pain caused by slight pressure on the surface, and by the escape of a thin, fetid, frothy matter from the a^rture, whether made by ulceration or artificially. It is generally accompanied by the hectic symptoms; but, sometimes, Abernethy observes, “ both the local and consti- tutional disease are of a more purely inflammatory kindunder which circumstance ftie above-mentioned discharge and the hectic symptoms are deficient. Sometimes “ the lever is at first inflammatory, then hectical, and, when the local complaint becomes indo- lent, the pneral state of the patient’s health is no longer affected.” , And Abernethy savs fie has known a considerable space of time elapse between the first bursting of a lumbar ateceM and its assuming that morbid state which is so peculiar to those diseases and which prcmuces a correspondingjaffection of the system in general.” (pp. 221 2.') ' ♦R t R mention the important observation made by Pearson thafi “ although the larger arteries have been known to be surrounded wi[h purS above PouPART’s ligament, and sudden death resulted from quantities into the cavity of the abscess.” (pp. 912.)] ^ ^ escaping in large (o) In Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv.