756 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. others.) The drawing together of tlie tlireads, by pa.ssing them throtigli several rosary i beads, and tying upon them, (Schuegku,) or with the ligature tyer, is improper. For the cases in which, on acconnt of the thinness of the fistulous edges above t described, the separation of the vac/ina from the bladder is not possible, DiHFrEsiuca % recommends the running stitch, in which without previously refreshing the edges, a very' thick thread is carried by a curved needle circularly around the fistula, some lines dit t taut from its edge, through the cellular tissue connecting the vagina with the bladder t in which the needle must be passed in and out three or four times through the opening ; the thread is then to be firmly tied. (Compare par. 957.) 978. For the purpose of carrying off the urine witli greater certainty fronu the wound thus brought together, puncture of tlie bladder above the pubett: should, according to Wutzer, be performed. The patient must be removedi from the position upon her belly to that on her back, and should be allowed^ some rest. She is then to be brought to the edge of the table, the thigb, raised towards the belly, and after the still remaining urine is drawn ofl t with an elastic catheter, the curved tube of the trocar furnished with a; fishbone-plug, and oiled, is to be introduced through the urethra into thei bladder ; the round head of the plug is then placed against the front walll in the direction towards the arch of the pubes, pressed pretty firmly on the* hind surface of the lower notch of the syiichrondrosis, and there kepi i some time constantly close to the pubic symphysis, raised along it froini below upwards, till at last it can be felt through the abdominal covering?,* immediately above the and directly in its middle. The operator' then firmly retains the tube in his right hand, in the position just men-. tioned, places the tip of the forefinger and thumb of his left hand on either side of the projection artificially made above the pubic symphysis, and, endeavours so to assist in fixing the extremity of the tube there pressedf up ; an assistant then withdraws the plug, and in its stead introduces a curved stilette into the tube, so far upwards till the two handles completely’ meet to each other, and the point of the stilette at the same time pro- trudes through the upper opening of the tube. At this important moinenl the operator with his right hand takes hold of the handle of the tube wilt : that of the stilette, and with strong pressure thrusts the stilette in a cor-: responding direction upwards and forwards, through the front of the bladder and the wall of the belly. The accompanying tube he takes hold of at the same time, with the two fingers of the left hand conveniently disposed, keeps it steady, and then allows the stilette to be withdrawn by' an assistant, who also immediately carefully removes the handle of the tube, by gently drawing them apart. The operator now changes both' hands, draws the tube with his right hand out of the belly till the hind®' extremity directed by the left hand enters the cavity of the bladder, be-*; tween the orifices of the ureters, which can be ascertained bj' the careful introduction of the oiled tip of the finger into the vagina. For the pur- pose of keeping the tube in this position, it must be fixed immovably by means of wing screws, in the cleft of a previously well-fitted belly-girdle.' after which the patient should be carefully conveyed to a bed previously prepared, placed on her belly, upon suitably* cut out leather cushions, and properly buckled in it with suitable straps. In the gap of the bolster and beneath the point of the tube a basin should be placed to receive the urine fiowing from it. For the arrangement of the trocar and bed, see 'Wltzer, above cited, pi. iv. and v. 979. The after-treatment must have special reference to the prevention of inflammation. According to Dieffenbach, besides rest and antiphlo-