94 TREATMENT For the resolution of hardening it is usual to employ i\\e saponaria, the taraxacum, grurnen; the gummi ammoniacum, galhanum; ciauta, bella- donna, clierry-laurel water, various preparations of mercury and antimony ; the soaps, alkalies and so on : for external use, warm bathing especially with or without alkalies, infriction of volatile salves, mercurial ointment; various plasters, the empl. de cicutd c. ammoniaco, de mercurio c. cam- phord and so on ; fomentations of narcotic plants ; electricity, and gal- vanism. Tlie repeated application of leeches, the internal and external use of mercury, and iodine, the employment of derivative remeflies, with a better regulated and rather strict mode of living, act most satisfactorily. 69. These means must be used with discretion, and not pursued too long, because, otherwise, the general health will be much disturbed or inflammation and transition of the hardening into other kinds of disorga- nization, or even into cancer, may be produced. When, therefore, reso- lution is not effected, or when it cannot be attempted, it is most advisable to remove the hardened parts with tlie knife. If the patient will not submit to the operation, the hardening must be protected as much as pos- sible from external influences; it must be kept warm, attention must be paid to the secretions and excretions ; the patient must live regularly, and specially preserve himself from all depressing emotions of the mind. 70. Gangrene is always the loss of vital activity in some part; but the variety of its causes and of the circumstances connected with it render very different kinds of treatment necessary, in order to stop the further spreading of the gangrene, to assist nature in throwing off the gangrenous part, and to prevent the operation of the gangrenous juices acting upon other parts of the body. 71. Gangrene may be specially connected with inflammatorj’^, nervous, or gastric fever, with general debility or increased sensibility and convulsions. When it is consequent on active inflammation and accompanied with in- flammatory fever, which is specially the case in young strong persons after external injury and so on, a moderating antiphlogistic treatment can only be employed, and emollient poultices to hasten the throwing off the gangrene. If the gangrene arise from the confinement of the in- flamed parts by unyielding aponeuroses, the removal of these mechanical hinderances, by suitably deep and extensive incisions, can alone prevent the production or further spreading of the gangrene. In most cases the gangrene is connected with general debility, nervous or putrid fever, and then especially is indicated the use of bark with valerian, arnica; serpentaria, fluid hartshorn, diluted acids ; naphtlia, wine, and so on ; if there be putrid symptoms, bark with mineral acids and alum. It must not be forgotten, however, that not unfrequently, under these cir- cumstances, wine and animal food decidedly increase the febrile heat, the pulse becomes quicker, the tongue coated, and the patient very uneasy. A less irritating diet, and only so much mild, nourishing, and farinaceous food as the appetite requires and the stomach can bear, is then more proper. Not unfrequently in gangrene tliere is a loaded state of the bowels, which must be as early ris possible removed, and then tlie strengthening re- medies employed. In greatly increased sensibility and convulsions, opium, musk, fluid alkalies, and otlier autispasraodic means are to be used. 72. The Local Treatment of gangrene has the two-fold puiqiose of sup- porting nature in throwing off tlie slough and in diminishing the danger- ous operation of the gangrenous juices.