682 CARIES. [(1) “ Tlie term caries,” says Lawuknce, “ docs not apply to all the circumstance* under which ulceration of a bone takes place. When a portion of a bone dies, tliat part b separated from the sound portion by a process of ulceration ; but that ulceration doe* not come under the denomination of caries. Ulceration of bone, in' fact, like tliat of the soft parts, is various in its nature. There is a healthy ulceration in soft parts, enabling them to repair injuries; and there is a similar ulceration in bone. Now to that healing kind of ulceration we do not give the term caries; but we apply the term caries of the bone to an unhealthy species of ulceration, an ulceration which is not of a salutary but of a destructive nature. This kind of ulceration, like the morbid ulceration of soft parts, is preceded by inflammation; the bone first inflames and then ulcerates, just as you observe in the case of a sore leg, where the skin inflames first and then proceeds into a state of ulceration. This state, too, is accompanied by the formation of matter, in which respect caries, or the ulceration of a bone, b analo- gous to the same process in the soft structures of the body. Such, then, b the sense in which we employ the term caries; it is a morbid ulceration of the bone, preceded by inflammation, and attended with some kind of suppuration or formation of matter.” (p. 356.) (2) As Miescher states, “ Granulations are not entirely deficient, inasmuch as every bony surface, affected with caries, is covered with a certain soft substance, corre- sponding to the growing granulations in healthy suppuration ; but they are of a bad kind, of livid colour, and when touched bleed easily ; mostly they are scanty, but sometimes so luxuriate in a kind of fungus, that the roughness of the bone itself can be scarcely, or not at all, examined. Of whatever kind they be, they never go on to scar, but having been produced by humours, the commixture of which has been corrupted by general disease, and acquiring their life from that part of the body of which ib own life has been altered by disease, they have an organic structure but little perfect, and only enjoy a short existence, in consequence of which they soon die, and together with them also larger or smaller particles of the bone itself. Under them new granulations sprout up, but unless the existing disease be got rid of, are not better than the former, and die also in a short time ; and thus, with the caries always creeping further, the suppurative in- flammation elsewhere of its own nature producing new substance, here seems to run on to nothing but a sort of destructive process. But nevertheless even in caries it appears nature provides, that new organic substance should be produced from the growing gra- nulations, which although of scanty and of bad character, are never entirely deficient Indeed this is often proved even by the formation of new bony substance; for dyscrasic inflammations as they are called, and especially the syphilitic, not unfrequently, from the very first, produce new formations, from which we know that exostoses are mostly first produced; but the very carious surface is sometimes studded with new bony, spiny, spongy formations, which as Clocquet observes, ‘ are analagous to the fungous flesh springing up in soft parts.’ The surrounding periosteum is swollen, and between it and the bone itself new bony matter is poured out, and often forms large exostoses.” (p. 209-10.) “ The distinguishing character of caries,” observes Syme, “ is the same as that of can- cerous ulcers in the soft parts, viz., obstinacy of action. * * * The disease has, for the most part, remissions more or less complete, and of considerable duration, in which the pain and discharge nearly or altogether cease and the ulcer seems to be on the point of healing, or actually becomes covered with a thin soft cicatrix. But these amendments are only partially and temporary, being always followed by relapse, and there is no natural limit to the duration of the disease, except the life of the jwtient, who, after months, or even many years of suffering, becomes finally exhausted, either by the itself or some other disorder which the irritation produced by the caries has excited. u w. “ The diseased part,” observes Mayo, “ often neither can recover itself, nor be ab- sorbed ; neither does it become necrosed. Left to itself, the caries would continue year after year, undermining the constitution of the patient, gradually invading the adjawnt sound bone and finally threatening with destruction the neighbouring joint It is often extremely difficult to tell whether an inflammatory enlargement of bone is abscess, or caries, or necrosis.” (p. 38.)] 862. These clianges of the bone are always dependent on previous in- flammation, which lias its seat either in tlie periosteum and outer layers of the bone, or in tlie medullary membrane, in the parenchyma of the bone. The formation of a bony ulcer is therefore always preceded by dull,