265 CHRONIC HIP-DISEASE. 243. In the second stage, tliickeniiig and loosening up of the ligaments i having already occurred, exudation existing, and the affection of the bone having begun, the actual cautery and issues must be employed, after the proper subduing of tlie inflammatory symptoms, for the purpose of restrain- ing, by external derivation, the deep-seated disease, and encouraging the I absorption of tlie unnaturally secreted fluid. Three or four streaks are to i be made with the prismatic cautery heated to wliiteness, extending from the I middle of the buttock over the joint, avoiding the skin upon the trochanter ; and upon tiie skin behind the trochanter the flat of the iron is to be firmly pressed, for the purpose of making an issue. The burnt part is to be covered with soft linen, and, in severe pain, with anodyne bread poultices. When the slough has separated, the discharge is to be kept up with irritat- ing ointments, of which, ung. sabin. is best. For tlie purpose of making an issue, a tolerably large patch behind the great trochanter is to be rubbed j witli caustic potash, slightly moistened, until the skin is brown (1). After ! some days the crust falls off, and a sufficient quantity of peas are to be l' introduced to keep up the suppuration. The suppurating part must be 9 frequently touched with caustic. Repeated and perpetual blisters, rubbing in tartarized antimony oint- I ment, as also the application (2) of hot steam (a), and the introduction of a J seton through the skin (3), especially in the region of the groin, if the pain I more attack tliis part, and extend along the crural nerve, (Fonn, Brodie, Larrey, and others,) may reasonably be regarded as inferior to the more powerful means before mentioned. The result of the buruing is often remarkably quick. Rust objects to the use of caustic, that by its destructive operation on organic matter it does not produce sufficient excitement to effect an alteration of the soft and liai’d parts of the joint; numerous obser- vations, however, prove the efficiency of issues. In the comparison of these two remedies, the momentary and severe operation of the hot iron is not merely to be considered, but the continued derivation, which is better supported by the issues than by the actual cautery. I therefore give the preference, in the second stage, to issues, if there be not great lengthening of the foot; but I prefer the actual cautery, or the burning cylinders, (recommended by Albeks, Laurey, and others,) in all cases where the limb is much lengthened, the muscles relaxed, and where there is great swelling from collection of fluid. VoLi’i (b) has not observed any effect from the application of the actual cautery, when the signs or precursors of coxalgy were first manifested not at the hip but at the knee-joint. [(1) Brodie’s observation, that “ the good derived from the issue does not seem to be in proportion to the quantity of pus discharged from its surface,” will, I am sure, be admitted by every one who is frequently in the habit of using them ; and I fully agi'ee with the opinion, “ that sometimes more abatement of the symptoms is produced in the first few days after the caustic is applied, and before the slough has separated, than in several weeks afterwards,” which, I presume, depends upon the fresh irritation pro- duced by the new issue upon the skin; whilst, on the contrary, when an old issue is long kept up in one spot, the parts accommodate themselves to the intrusion, and after a certain period the issue is, as it were, naturalized, and causes no further inconvenience and, consequently, no more benefit, as it fails to keep up the irritation required to create a diversion from the disease in the hip-joint. “ This circumstance,” says Brodie, first led me, instead of employing beans for this purpose, to keep the issue open simply by rubbing the surface occasionally with the caustic potash, or with the sulphate of copper • and, after an extensive trial of both methods, the latter has appeared to be decidedly preferable to the former. The pain produced by the caustic is very considerable but the relief of the symptoms is such, that 1 have known patients to be in the habit of making the application themselves, saying, that “they knew they should be better by the next morning.” Besides, the issue managed in this way is more easily dressed than (n) Dio Dampfmanchine, cin neucs Ileilmittol, Oder Tilwr die Anwendung des Stralils der Iieisscn Dimple dessiedenden Waasers zu arUliclien Zwek- ken; inDzoNDi’s ^Esculap., vol. i. p. 87; pl.i 11 Leipzig, 1321. (i) Above cited, p. 30.