375 MAROCHETTI’S OBSERVATIONS. bruised to blue redness. At the same time a dose, proportional to his age, of belladonna iwl, calomel, cajepiit oil, and sugar must be given to the bitten person.^ ^9''.^ drink, R he.rb. et Jior. anagall. arvens. jiij., rad. bardan., saponar. ana 3jss., hquirit. 5iij. slip, (iulcam. 3vj., sem, anis. 3j.: jnisce. Of this three heaped up table-spoonfuls iix‘ to be well boiled in two and a half quarts of water. The belladonna is to be in- creased every day according to the age and constitution of the patient, about a quarter to half a grain, or even to a whole grain, till it produce incipient double vision and giddiness. When these symptoms have come on sharply, the belladonna is not to be increased, but the same dose to be continued to the fourteenth day. If the symptorns oe diminished previous to the fourteenth day, the dose of the belladonna must be again increased, in similar proportions, till it again resumes its full power, and to be con- itinued to the fourteenth day. The dose of the calomel and cajeput oil is not to be bhanged. From the fifteenth day the belladonna is to be again diminished, as it has oeen increased, till the dose have returned to that with which it was commenced; and fdiis is to be continued to the twenty-eighth day. From the fifteenth day the wound s to be dressed only once with the above ointment; from the twenty-eighth day to Its complete cure, with an ointment of three drachms of ung. basilic, and five of ung. nlthew. The drink is to be made fresh every day, and drank daily in sufiicient quan- ity till the wound is healed. 368. According to the observations of Marochetti (a) and others, little bladders and knots sJiould form, on both sides, beneath the tongue, upon the ducts of the sub-maxillary glands, upon the third, fifth, seventh, and ninth day, and even later, on the twenty-first, and even to the thirty- fourth day after the bite of a mad beast. These little bladders appear on rhe sides of the fraenum, one or more often on the side corresponding to rhe bite; sometimes they occur upon the upper surface of the tongue, riiey are small, round, or oblong pustules, which project, are irregu- larly large as linseed, or even as a pea; are generally transparent and nuctuating, but often opaque: of a brownish white colour, and more or less knotty. At their commencement they exhibit no very diseased ap- pearance ; they soon subside, often after thirty hours, or at least lose their fulness, their crystalline and fiuid form, and then the other symptoms let in simultaneously. If these vesicles be not opened within the first wenty-four hours after their appearance, the poison is absorbed, and the latient lost. We should therefore look beneath the tongue of the bitten Derson twice a-day for six weeks, during which time he must take daily i pint and a half of strong decoction of the tops and flowers of genista 'utea tinctoria, or, four times daily, a drachm of pulvis genistce. If vesicles io not appear during this period hydrophobia is not to be dreaded ; but, if they appear, they must be opened with a lancet, burnt with the actual cautery, and the patient may gargle with the decoct, genistce. These very important observations, the correctness of which have been frequently and py myself confirmed in a sufficient number of cases which have come under ny observation, must not, however, by any means restrict the local treat- ment of the bite (fi). (a) Observations surTHydrophobie : Indices cer- tains pour reconnaitre I’existence du virus hydro- jhobique chez nn individu ct moyens d’en pre- »ir fe developpement en detruisant le germe; in I' ennijchte Abliandlungcn aus dem Gebiete dcr J'on einer Gesellschaft, &c. Petersburg, (6^ Dr Mayer, ibid., vol. ii. p. 88. Uust’s Magazin, vol. x. p. 189.; vol. xvi. p. H9. St. Peb-rsburg Zcitung. 1823, 14th Aug. in IIufeland’s Journal. 1824. Marrh. Amei.uno; ibid.. 1824, I)ec.,p. 88. OMODEijAnnali Cniversali di Medicina. June, Erumann ; in Hamburger Magazin der aus- landl. Liter, vol. v. p. 293 il de I’Hupital de Burlay ; I’Hydrophobie. J^aintes, Maoistel; Journal le on Mcmoire sur l’Hy<._.^ --...vx,.. —Journal General de Medecine, Sept. and Physical Journal. Feb. I.AENNEc ; in Revne Medicals. Feb. 1824. Baumbach ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol.xv. p'. 109. Ip'TMirLLER nnd Idei.er ; il)id.,vol. xvi. p. 109. ItENoRBE nnd Mum.er ; ibid., vol. xxi. p. 294. Dkutscuert; ibid., vol. xx. p. 5(i0. Sohi.uter ; ibid., vol. xxii. p. 508. SoCHTiNo; ibid., vol. xxiv. p. 492. Rust ; in his Magazin, p. 408.