596 OPERATION FOR tracted (3). Previous to the operation the child should he kept awake a long time (4). [(1) Lawrence thinks “ it is very desirable to remove the defect early on every account; in my opinion it is also advantageous as respects the success of the operation, that it should be performed at a comparative early period. I should say, then, that in the third, fourth, or fifth month after birth it should be performed, at all events, you should perform it at such a period that it will not interfere with the 'process of denti- tion. There is often a good deal of irritation going on in the neighbourhood of the part which is the seat of this defect at the time of teething, so that it is desirable yon should accomplish the cure before dentition commences, or put it off till after the child has got its teeth; it is, however, in my opinion, desirable to perform it before. It so happens that I have had, at various times, under my care a great number of cases of this kind; I have invariably performed the operation at the time I have mentioned, and I have not, in any one instance, seen an unfavourable result from it considered as an operation, nor a failure of the ultimate object of the operation, that is, the closure of the preternatural fissure. It has sometimes been said that children are liable to convul- sions at this time, and that a considerable loss of blood may act seriously on them, so that they may die from the mere effect of the operation. This has not occurred in any case that has come within my observation.” (p. 819.) Mutter says:—“ If called a few days after birth, and the child is healthy, I operate for the hare-lip as soon as possible, believing as I do that the earlier the operation is performed the better. Much needless dread of convulsions, sloughings, fevers, &c., exists in the minds of some when they refer to operations of this kind upon very young children, but 1 have over and over again succeeded, without the occurrence of an unto- ward symptom, in infants of three, four, and five days old.” (p. 25.) (2) I do not think even eight months is sufficient age for the performance of this operation. Some Surgeons, as just mentioned, do not hesitate to perform it at six weeks or a month, or even at a shorter period after birth. But it is objectionable, because some- times the child’s crying more or less tears the new adhesions, and an ugly notch remains in the lip; or, what is still more important, it produces dangerous fainting from the loss of blood, or subsequent convulsion, which are only checked by the removal of the threads, and allow'ing the original gap to be reproduced. It should not therefore be lightly undertaken in very young children, as it exposes them to much danger. I would never perform it before two years old; but if [the parents can be persuaded to wait till the child is six or eight, it is preferable, as the lip being thicker and larger, and the child being capable of understanding the advantage of keeping quiet for a few hours, the operation is more successful, and a better and more even lip is formc*d. (3) Whether the teeth be of the first or second set, if they stick out much, there is little hope of bringing them into proper place by pressure, and it is therefore better to re- move them, which should be done a day or two previous to the operation. (4) As to keeping the child awake for some time before the operation, it is not matter of much consequence ; for in general he will soon drop off to sleep.—J. F. S.] 725. The operation is to be performed in the following manner:—The child is to be held by one assistant, with his legs between his, and the child’s hands within his. A second assistant presses the child’s head against the breast of the former; and with his hands placed on each side beneath the jaw, at the same time he brings the skin of the cheeks somewhat forward, and compresses the facial arteries. The liead of the child is always to be inclined a little forward (1). If the lip be united with ,the gum it must first be separated to a sufficient extent with a curved bistoury. Tlie Surgeon takes hold of the lower angle of the left edge of the cleft part with the finger and thumb of the left hand, or with a pair of forceps, and drawing it towards him, thrusts the blunt blade of a strong pair of scissors (2), curved at an obtuse angle on their outer edge, under the lip, and so high that the point reaches above the angle of the cleft. lie then pushes the scissors a little upwards, and cuts off lengthways the whole red jwrt of the cleft lip. Next, with the thumb and linger of the left hand, he takes hold of the lower corner of the right side of the cleft, and operates