I [ o43 ] VII.—OF FRACTURE OF THE PELVIC BONES. \ {Fractura Ossiitm Pelvis, Lat; Bruch der Beckenknochen, Germ.; Fracture des Os du Bassin, Fr.) JCreve, C. C., Dissert, de Fracturis Ossium Pelvis. Mogant., 1792. 4to. Ibid, Von den Krankheiten des Weiblichen Bechens. Berl., 1/95. 4to. g Swan, Joseph, On Injuries of the Pelvis; in Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 520. A Adeemann, D. G., Dissert, de FracturS, Ossium Pelvis. Fuldse, 1835. ') Cooper, Astley, On Dislocations, and on the Fractures of Joints. 3 Earle, Henry, Observations on Fractures of the Bones of the Pelvis; in Med.-Chir. s Trans, vol. xix. 1835. :) 617. Fracture of the Pelvic Bones is rare on account of their great ri- strengtii, deep situation, and thick covering ; it therefore always requires 1' very great violence, by which most commonly severe injury to the soft t | parts is produced; or the same symptoms as in fracture of the spine, may »•: be caused by injury of the spinal marrow. The fracture may happen to $! the rump-bone, to the coccyx, to the hip, share or haunch hone. d 618. Fracture of the Rump-hone, {^Fractura OssisSacri, Lat.; Bruch der K? Heiligenbeines, Germ.; Fracture du Sacrum, Fr.,) at its upper part, is 91 unconnected with any displacement, therefore the diagnosis is generally i difficult; but if it happen at the lower part, the lower piece is displaced wi inwards, (forwards,) and for its replacement the finger well oiled must be ri introduced into the rectum, and press the bone outwards (back.) A thick compress, moistened with a dispersing lotion, must be applied on the rump- m bone, and fastened with a broad bandage surrounding the whole pelvis. >4 The rest of the treatment is the same as in fracture of the vertehrce, and it) must be directed against inflammation of the pelvic intestines, and the X • symptoms of palsy of the spine or of the sacral nerves. [This is an accident of very rare occurrence; there is, however, in the College ai' Museum, an example of vertical fracture of this bone. The patient died of suppuration ■; - six weeks after the accident, and there was not any union.—J. F. S. ] 3 619. The Coccyx {das Steisshein, Germ.) rarely breaks, on account of j its great mobility and deep situation. It happens specially in old persons, r in whom the connexions of its several pieces have become ossified. The n cause is usually a fall upon the rump, consequent on which fixed pain occurs i in the region of the coccyx, which is increased in walking; and distinct >< motion of the ends of the fracture is felt. If the under piece of bone ) be driven in, (forwards,) it must be replaced by introducing the finger into i the rectum; a moistened compress is then to be applied over the seat of i fracture, which is to be fastened with a T bandage, and the general treat- B ment is to be directed according to the accompanying symptoms, r [This accident, commonly so called is, I suspect, rather a tearing of the ligamentous k expansion in which the several pieces of the bone are enclosed, the bony pieces them- n selves being too small and too spongy to break, except squeezed between two hard » substances, which is scarcely possible. Though seemingly a very trivial accident it is I! often exceedingly painful and annoying for many monlJis; indeed, I have known two a cases where it was not recovered from for nearly two years; the one followed sitting T down suddenly on the edge of a snuff-box, which jammed in between the side of the 1'! cocci/x and the spine of the haunch-bone; and the other, by the patient having been 0 thrown from a horse upon a heap of stones. In these cases the pain was not so great 0 M usually said to be, in walking, because the patients learned to walk without disturb- ' ing the bone; but the pain was agonizing when they incautiously sat down on a soft '' seat. Leeching afforded only temporary relief; and the cure was at last effected, after months, by protecting the coccyx from all possibility of pressure, by constantly wearing