353 AND VIPERS. poured from the poison bag into the wound ; whether the viper was excited or not at the moment when it bit. In winter the poison is less active than in summer; but very rarely is the bite fatal. Immediately after the bite a severe burning in the wound occurs, the bitten part inflames and swells, and the inflammation spreads over the whole limb ; the lymphatic vessels are red and swollen to the next glands; the glands themselves swell; high fever comes on, delirium, small pulse, vomiting, pain in the region of the lieart, and often in that of the throat; not unfrequently convulsions, jaun- dice, anxiety of mind, fainting, also are noticed. The best mode of destroying the poison in the wound, and for preventing its absorption is, after cutting upon it, to cauterize it with strong liquor am- or with butyr of antimony; the compression of the limb above the bitten part by means of a cord, and the application of a cupping-glass (a). The neighbourhood of the wound is to be rubbed with oil; the part may be touched with oil in which caustic ammonia has been mixed. Fluid vola- tile alkalies are to be given internally, and the patient kept in bed, in order to keep up properly the accompanying perspiration. Cupping-glasses and ligatures have only momentary effect if all of the poison be not removed from the wound (6). It appears from Pennock’s observations (c) that the application of the cupping-glass operates partially by the pressure of its edge numbing the nerves of the part, partly by the removal of the atmospheric pressure preventing the absorption of the poison. It is therefore always necessary before removing the cupping- glass to lay the wound open. Rodrique (d) is of the same opinion, hut he still advises the application of the ligature by which the absorption is also diminished. [Fontana did not consider that the bite of a common viper would be fatal to an adult, and observes that of a dozen cases he had known, and of fifty more he had heard of, only two terminated fatally. He could not obtain any history of one of these cases, but in the other gangrene commenced three days after the accident, although the wound had been freely cut into, almost immediately after the bite had been received, and the person died in twenty days. A case is, however, mentioned (e), of a woman, aged sixty-four, who died in thirty-seven hours after having been bitten on the thigh by a viper, notwithstanding the wound had been enlarged and cauterized with liquor am- monia, which was also administered internally. An instance of death after a viper-bite occurred some years ago at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, in a young man about eighteen years of age, who was under my friend Vin- cent’s care. He was very weakly, had considerable pain and swelling of the arm and side bitten, followed by extensive erysipelas and sloughing; no generous diet, &c., could kwp up his powers, and after several weeks he sunk. I have seen a few cases of viper- Dites in spring and summer, at which periods the animal is in strong health and pro- portionally virulent, but I have never seen the severe symptoms above described, nor aas it been necessary to employ any other than very simple treatment, the means for which may in general be immediately procured. The pain is always very severe, and swelling in the immediate neighbourhood at once commences, which spreads rapidly up the limb, without the least resemblance of inflammation, but like an oedema of long .’ontinuance, and the skin is stretched almost to bursting in the course of three or four lours. An extreme sensation of depression, bordering upon faintness, soon sets in, iccompanied with frequent vomiting; but I have never seen the constitutional affection proceeding further. The wound has sometimes assumed a gangrenous appearance, but generally has been scarcely distinguishable. The treatment I have employed is exceed- ugly simple,—continued smearing for two or three hours of the whole limb, so far as t was swollen, with olive oil, and the administration of brandy again and again till he symptoms of depression have disappeared. The oiling is to be repeated less fre- ■ *Pftorwards, but sufficiently to keep the parts well soaked in oil. The pain soon ^ ubsides after the application of the oil, but the swelling and uneasiness from the dis- (c) American Journal of the Medical Sciences, May, 1828. (dS Ibid, August, 1828. 18^0 Cercle Mcdicale, vol. i. p, 44. 2 A II is® desSciences d'Observations. Paris, »«-’9,April, p. 12J. VOL. I.