372 HYDROPHOBIA. instincts, as well as the similarity of the .symptoms of Iiydropholiia, with those of tetanus and several other nervous affections, is accounted for. As to the different opinions on the nature of Hydropliobia, see Haiii.e (a). Hauue«(6) proposes the question whether it be not possible, and even probable, tliat the poison brought in the course of absorption from the bite into the circulation, may not there remain for some time without exciting peculiar reaction; but when it is again deposited in the spot of the original inoculation, whether it do not excite the known symptoms preceding the outbreak of madness, and finally herewith produce, by inflam- mation of the nerves, by sympathy, or some other means, the symptoms of hydrophobia ? Applicable to this question is a case where the symptoms of hydrophobia, which had distinctly established themselves, disappeared speedily after the excision of the scar. They reappeared upon the growth of a spongy and acutely painful knot which sprouted from the wound, but after its removal and a suppuration of some considerable time the patient recovered. Lanoenbeck. (c) considers hydrophobia to depend on a qualitative alteration of the blood from the transport of the poison from the infected bite into the mass of the blood, in which nature, struggling to separate the poison, brings the salivary glands into play| which prepare a spittle containing the contagious matter. 365. If the wound be impregnated with the poison, the prognosis is . always e.xtremely doubtful. Everything depends on destroying the poison in i the wound, and preventing its operation on the general organism. If hydro- - phobia have already broken out, art is but very seldom capable of render- - ing assistance, and the less as the disease sets in more quickly or its - symptoms are more severe. 366. The complete excision of the wound is the most certain for the ei removal of the poison, and for preventing its influence on the whole body; i or, when tliis cannot be done, the quick cleansing of the wound and its entire neighbourhood with water, salt water, water and vinegar, and so 4 on, long continued ; in small wounds a longitudinal enlargment must be 4 made, and the bleeding kept up by cupping-glasses or warm water. The «. whole wound must then be thoroughly cauterized with the actual cauteiy. j butyr of antimony, caustic ammonia, caustic potash, or with gunpowder, r which is to be inflamed. The slough is to be soon removed, and a free x suppuration kept up for many months, by scattering powdered cantliarides, ** and by irritating salves, and by rubbing in mercury about the whole cir- r cumference of the wound till ptyalism is produced. The same mode of ■ treatment must be employed if the wound already closed begins to smart r and swell. The various remedies which have been just mentioned as especially efficient for cau- terization, owe this preference to their active operation, and the possibility of applying them in the different-shaped wounds; so that every part of the wound may be sufficiently deeply cauterized. In this respect butyr of antimony and caustic potash are most pre- > ferable. [Yocatt is no advocate for excision, and observes:—“ This operation demands greater skill and tact than is generally supposed. It requires a determination fully to accom- plish the desired object, for every portion of the wound with which the tooth could pos- sibly have come into contact must be removed. This is often exceedingly difficult to accomplish on account of the situation and direction of the wound. The knife must not enter the wound, or it will be likely to be itself empoisoned, and then the inischiel and the danger will be increased instead of removed. Dr. Massey was convinced o( the impropriety of this when he advised that ‘should the knife by chance enter the wound that had been made by the dog’s tooth, the operation should be recommenced with a clean knife, otherwise the sound parts will become inoculated.’ If the incisior is made freely and properly round the wound, and does not penetrate into it, yet tm blood will follow the knife, and a portion of it will enter into the wound caused by th< («) Ueber die ilcimndlung der Iliind.iwutli, und der lleilkunst von einer (Je,s<dl»chaa prakti*^ inabesundere ulier die Wirksanikeit der I'aliirs- Straraoiiiiini gpgen deisellie. Frankfurt, ISO*', to (6) Vermisclite .Vbliandlungen aus dein liebietc .\en.le zust. I’etersburg. IVleraburg, P* * (c) Nosologic und Tlicrapic der chirurgucao Kraiikheiten, vol. iii. p. Std.