786 CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OiUBASius, Pare, Gersdorff, Scultetus, Piirmann, Petit ; the reductots of i Ravaton, Hagen, Freck, Mennel, Schneider, Brunningiiacsen, and others. 1038. If the dislocation have existed some weeks, the arm mmst, pre. vious to extension, be moved forcibly in every direction, for tlie purjiggo i of loosening it, and the relaxation of the muscles must be effected by the ; means already mentioned. After the reduction of these old dislocations an emphysematous swelling is often observed beneath the great pectoral d muscle, which soon disappears under the use of dispersing remedies, •, 'WEiNHOLD cut through tlie tendon of the m. pectoralis major, becaust^it | did not yield in an old dislocation (a). The dislocations at the sliouldw- . joint may often be satisfactorily reduced, even after a long time, especially c in relaxed persons ; the attempt at reduction, however, is not to be carrie(^i too far, as dangerous symptoms may ensue (i). j Gibson noticed a rupture of the axillary artery in reducing an old dislocation. 1 Dieffenbach (c), whilst making extension and counter-extension in the usual ■ manner, in a dislocation of two years’ standing, divided the tendons of the m. pectoraitt major and latissimus dorsi, the m. teres major and minor, beneath the skin, and the false ligaments surrounding the new joint, upon which, with the extension made, the ■; head suddenly returned into its socket, and he then applied over it a pasteboard-i apparatus. 1039. The Dislocation o/’f/te Upper-Arm-hone {^Luxatioam- genita Humeri) does not, according to R. W. Smith (tZ), who first noticed -i it, happen so very rarely. In the early period of life, before the more >■ perfect development of the bones, and before the more powerful action of •: the muscles, the external appearance of deformity may possibly escape s observation ; but when the shoulder-bones have attained to their perfect-> development, when the bony processes about the joints project, and esp6>t i cially when the muscles operating on the shoulder-joint and upper-arm r-- acquire their full activity, then first are the characteristic marks of conge-i nital dislocation not easy to be mistaken. Smith has noticed two kinds j of congenital dislocation, viz., the suhcoracoid and the subacromial dis-.v location. 1040. In the congenital suhcoracoid dislocation, the head of the upper- arm-bone, when the arm hangs down on the side, is situated beneath the c coracoid process, and the outer part of the glenoid cavity can be felt beneath the projecting acromion ; if the elbow be drawn forward over the < chest, the head of the upper-arm-bone slips backwards over the acromion, n and completely leaves the unnatural part of the articular surface, which » can now be distinctly felt; the shoulder has not its natural rounded fonn, 4 but is flattened. The rausclas of the shoulder and arm are much slirunk, and also the muscles passing from the chest to the blade-bone and upper- j. arm, only the m. trapezius shows the least of this, and seems to be almost 4 the only muscle, which still acts upon and moves the blade-bone; the diseased arm is nearly half an inch shorter. The motions of the arm are i very much restricted ; elevation and abduction are not possible, and even the forward and backward motions cannot be performed without corre- ' sponding movement of the blade-bone. Although the muscles of the fore- ■ arm are not so much shrunk as those of the upper, yet flexion is so diffi* - (а) ZwANZio de Luxatione Ossis Humeri, et pre- cipue Incisione Aponouroseos Musculi I’ectoralis Majoris ad cur. Liixat. inveter. Halff, 1819. (б) Flaubert, Memoire sur plusieurs cns de Luxation, dans Icsquels les efforts ont etc suivi d'accidens graves; in Repert. gen. d'Anatomie et de Pliysiologic Pathologique, vol. iii. fasc. i. (c) Vereinszeitung, lS-19, No. 51. (d) .\n Essay upon the original or congewta* Luxations of the upper extremity of the Hum***! • in Dublin Journal, vol. xv. p. 2Sfi. , Kroriei’'s N. Notixen, July, 1339. No. CSS ana 227. !