350 STINGS OF BEES, experienced any ill eflect but once, and then I was not in very good health. I had an inflammation of the finger, with swelling up the hand and arm, and subsequently swelling of the glands in the axilla, with suppuration. There are cases, however, in ' which important local effects are produced, and in which very serious and even dan- gerous symptoms occur. * * * We cannot point out any particular state of a dead body, nor any condition of previous disease, that will certainly give rise to any set of symptoms in these cases; indeed, we shall observe, an individual receive a prick or a cut in dissection of a certain subject, and suffer certain inconveniences from it; while others, who have dissected the same subject, suffer no injurious consequences at all from a similar injury. In the majority of instances the effects that are produced seem to be nearly such as would arise from the infliction of the wounds considered in themselves, without any reference to the state of decomposition of the dissected bodies in which they occur.” (pp. 651, 2.) “ There are some other cases,” continues the same writer, “ in which the local and general symptoms have been rather different, and it is in those par- ticularly that the agency of poison has been regarded as the true cause.” And he then mentions the case of Dr. Pett (a), who pricked himself at eight o’clock in the morning of the 28th of December without being aware of it, in sewing up the body of a female who had died of puerperal peritonitis. On the evening of the same day, feeling some heat and uneasiness, he carefully examined his fingers, and at the tip of one observed a blush, with a very minute opening in it. This he touched with nitrate of silver and nitric acid, without, however, causing pain; but as the uneasiness continued he again applied the nitrate of silver later in the evening, till he felt it sensibly, and then the pain became agonizing. On the morning of the 29th, after having passed a very rest- less night and had shiverings, the eschar was noticed as large as a split pea, and at 1, P.M., the finger had become swollen, had a livid appearance, and was very painful. An incision was then made down to the bone, which gave no pain, nor did any blood flow, and the last two joints were gangrenous: red lines extended along the fore arm to the elbow, and pain up to the axilla; complete prostration of strength; irregularity of breathing and considerable torpor came on; and, during the rest of the day, he had much heavy sleep, occasionally disturbed by severe attacks of pain; the pulse soft and between 90 and 100. The hand and arm continued swelling, the absorbents inflamed, as also the axillary glands, accompanied with an erysipelatous blush, which extended over the side of the chest, and the torpor and difiSculty of breathing increased. Punc- tures were made, but without giving vent to any pus, and he died at 6, a.m., on the 1st H of .lanuary. | The most certainly dangerous punctures, as far as my observation goes, are those ■ | which have happened in the examination of cases of peritonitis, either of the common | or puerperal form ; which certainly would lead to the presumption that, in such instances, there is an absorption of poison. But, on the other hand, I am sure that almost if not . quite as severe symptoms have occurred when the wound has been received in examin- • ing a body recently dead and quite fresh. With regard to putrid subjects, or those just : beginning to be so, my experience proves that wounds from them are almost invariably r the least formidable kind. How these facts are to be explained other than by the t assumption of a peculiarity in the constitution at the time of receiving the wound, I do > not presume to say; but certainly, as regards the affections from peritoneal disease, .1 there does appear to be a very strong presumption of poisonous matter having been ab- ■ sorbed. In wounds received in dissecting I believe the mischief is often very consideraUy .1 increased, if indeed it be not excited, by the very improper application of escharotics, .1 either nitrate of silver, nitric acid, or caustic potash. All that I ever thought of doing t' for myself, or recommending to be done, was to wash the hand carefully, and then sn^ the wound for ten minutes or so, and afterwards to apply a poultice. If the matter did not rest there, but inflammation with swelling and great pain came on, leading tothebe-- lief of the sheath of one or other tendon, or of the palmar fascia, (according to the situa- i- tion of the puncture,) or of the cellular tissue having inflamed, then fiee leeching was re- -t sorted to, and more or less deep incisions to relieve the tension and permit tlie escape of any pus that might have formed, which in an irritable constitution will happen in a fi^ *) horn's. As a general rule, whenever pus in these cases is found, it must be eracnated n immediately, as the longer it is left the more it increases the constitutional excitement. It not unfrequently happens after wounds received in dissection have passed throngn t the more aggravated symptoms, that the scar remains red, angry, tender, swollen, elevated and spread, so tliat, that which was primarily a mere pin-hole wound bccomW '' ns large or larger than a sixpence, and is covered ■with a soft scaly cuticle, beneath ■.< (h) I'or full particnlnra of this case, see Tba vkbs On Constitutional Irritation, p. 292-306.