STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. 223 or non-vascularity, not only on account of the difference of opinion there is upon these points whilst cartilage is in a healthy state, and during its growth but, also, because upon rae or other of these views are founded tlie different opinions held in reference to their activity or passiveness in the production of the diseases with which they are airected. Structure of Cartilage.—Wua.ja^i Hunter (a) examined articular cartilages previously prepared by boiling, or long-continued maceration, and thus describes them : ‘ When an articular cartilage is well prepared it feels solt, yields to the touch, but restores itself to its former equality of surface when the pressure is taken off. This surface, when viewed through a glass, appears like a piece of velvet. If we endeavour to peel the cartilage on in lamella;, we find it impracticable, but if we use a certain degree of force, it separates from the bone in small parcels, and we never find the edge of the remaining part oblique, but always perpendicular to the subjacent surface of the bone. If we view this edge through a glass, it appears like the edge of velvet, a mass of short and nearly parallel fibres rising from the tone, and terminating at the external surface of the cartilage; and the bone itself is planned out into small circular dimples where the little bundles of the cartilaginous fibres were fixed. Thus we may compare the texture of cartilage to the pile of velvet, its fibres rising up from the bone, as the silky threads of that rise from the woven cloth or basis. In both substances the short threads sink and bend upon being compressed, but by the power of elasticity recover their perpendicular bearing as soon as they are no longer subjected to a compressing force. » Now these perpendicular fibres make the greatest part of the cartilaginous substance; but, without doubt, there are, likewise, transverse fibrils which connect them, and make the whole a solid body, though these last are not easily seen, because, being very tender, they are destroyed in preparing the cartilage. * * * The blood-vessels are so small that they do not admit the red globules of the blood; so that they remained in a great measure unknown till the art of filling the vascular system with a liquid wax brought them to light. Nor even by this method are we able, in adult subjects, to demonstrate the vessels of the true cartilaginous sub- stance ; the fat-glands and ligaments shall be red with injected vessels, while not one coloured speck appears upon the cartilage itself. In very young subjects, after a subtle injection, they are very obvious; and I have found their course to be as follows : all round the neck of the bone there are a great number of arteries and veins which ramify into smaller branches, and communicate with one another by frequent anastomoses like those of the mesentery. This might be called the circulus articuli vasculosus, the vascu- lar border of the joint. The small branches divide into still smaller ones upon the ad- joining surface in their progress towards the centre of the cartilage. We are very seldom able to trace them into its substance, because they terminate abruptly at the edge of the cartilage, like the vessels on the albuginea oculi, when they come to the cornea. The larger vessels which compose the vascular circle, plunge in by a great number of small holes, and disperse themselves into branches between the cartilage and bone. From these again there arises a crop of small short twigs, that shoot towards the outer surface; and whether they serve for nourishing only, or if they pour out a dewy fluid, I shall not pretend to determine. However that be, I cannot help observing that the distribution of the blood- vessels to the articulating cartilages is very peculiar, and seems calculated for obviating great inconveniences. Had they run on the outer surface, the pressure and motion of the two cartilages must infallibly have occasioned frequent obstructions, inflammations, &c., which would soon have rendered our motions painful, and at last entirely deprived us of them. But by creeping round the cartilaginous brim, where there is little friction, or under the cartilage, where there is none, they are perfectly well defended from such ac- cidents. It were to be wished we could trace the nerves of cartilages: but, in rela- tion to these organs, here, as in many other parts of the body, we are under a neeessity, from the imperfection of our senses, of being satisfied with mere conjecture ; and though, from the great insensibility of a cartilage, some have doubt of its being furnished with ncrvM; yet, as it is generally allowed, that these are a sine qua non in the growth and nourishment of animals, we have no suflicient reason to deny their existenee in this particular part. With regard to the manner of their distribution, we may presume, from analogy, that they follow the same course with the blood-vessels.” (p. 515-19.) Mieschkh (6) says there is not the least difference between permanent cartilage and that which is to to converted into bone. (p. 15.) His observations in regard to articular Mrtilages do not, however, agree with William Hunter’s as regards their actual librous structure. He observes“ When articular cartilages have been thrown for some time into acid, they can easily be separated from the other cartilage which was (n) Above cited. (6) De Inflammatione Ossium eoruraque Anatome general!. Berolini, 1836. 4to.