DISLOCATION 784 In reduction the following points are to he especially noticed. As every dislocation of the upper arm occurs only in a certain position, so must its extension also be made in •' > a corresponding position, and according to the directions laid down. In this position the i m. deltoidcs, supra-spinatus and infraspinatus, which mostly oppose the reduction, an rendered lax. On this account the dislocation is often reduced with ease, immediatdy •, after its occurrence, by raising the arm to the horizontal posture, and placing the finger* ' \ in the arm-pit. The arm is not to be brought into its natural position, till the head of ’ the bone has been restored to the place from which it has slipped. The head is usually »■ carried back into the socket, rather by the action of the muscles, than by any forn . 1 applied to it. By what has been said is explained the fitness of La Mothe’s (n) pro- posed mode of reduction. The patient is to be placed on a seat; the shoulder to Ije ■! fixed by means of a cloth, folded lengthways, applied over it, and held by two assistant* »j sitting on the ground; a third, standing on the uninjured side, draws horizontally a cloth laid round the chest. The Surgeon, standing on a table near the patient, grips nj the dislocated arm with both hands, raises it, gently drawing it up towards the patient’s *f head, then pulls more forcibly, and thus almost without pain causes the head of the J bone to rise up into its place. Rust (6) simplifies this treatment; the patient being seated on the ground, on a carpet or flat cushion, an assistant, kneeling on the side [ opposite the dislocated arm, grasps the injured shoulder with both hands locked in each : | other, the one of his arms being carried before, and the other behind the patient. Whilst if he draws the shoulder strongly and steadily downwards, the Surgeon, standing on the ti same side as the dislocated arm, grasps it with both hands at the wrist and fore-arm, | draws it somewhat towards him, in order to keep it constantly extended, and raises it, , t by a circular movement, above the head of the patient, so that the upraised arm is ^ [ brought parallel with the long axis of the body. The Surgeon then draws the arm ' J strongly towards him, as if he would raise the patient from the ground, and at the ; I moment this is effected, the head of the bone slips back into its socket. If this do not happen, the Surgeon may now give the extension of the arm to an assistant, and kneel- ing by the patient, places both thumbs under the protruded head, and leads it, by • pressing upwards, into its socket. He then fixes one thumb firmly in the arm-pit, wifii the other hand grasps the elevated arm above the elbow-joint, and draws it carefully • down, when, if the head of the bone be not completely carried into its socket, its com- - plete reduction must be attempted, by more firmly sliding it over the opposed thumbs, i as if over a roller. j 1034. Complete reduction is characterized by the natural form of the , | joint, the cessation of pain, and the free movement of the arm in every > j direction. To counteract the disposition which tlie upper-arm always has -i to become dislocated afresh, its motions should be prevented ; the arm is -I to be put in a sling, or fastened with some circular turns of a bandage f round the body, and some may be carried beneath the elbow and over the : | shoulder. For the first few days cold applications are to be applied over I the shoulder to remove the bruising. If a paralytic state of the arm con- I tinue, (which there is always ground to fear if after the dislocation there i ensue a sensation of cold, of going to sleep, and weight,) stimulating .1 friction, douche-baths, blisters, moxas, and the like must be employed. | This may arise also from palsy of the deltoid muscle. I 1035. In this way the dislocation of the upper-arm-bone may ordinarily j again be put to rights. If violent contraction of the muscles occur, we ■ must attempt to diminish it by the remedies heretofore mentioned. A 'I small opening in the capsular ligament is mentioned by many, as the obstacle I to reduction in several cases, which may be imagined it tlie head of the I bone return to its place without noise and be directly again dislocated; in • such case the aperture of the capsular ligament must be attempted to , be enlarged by moving the arm ; numerous observations, however, oppose ^ this notion. i (n) ItnsCH, above citeil. jovecueu. . . sert. lie Methodo Mothiano humerum liixatK"! reponendi. Ilorlin, IS20. Svo. (b) Rust, in bis Mngazin fiir die (jesamnite Ileilkundc, vol. x. p. I.EONHAnuT, F., Dis-