» WOUNDS OF FACE. 427 J of the organs from habitual drinking; I have known it take place within thirty-six 1 hours from an accident in a temperate female.” (p. 309.)] I 455. These abscesses of the liver often form without being noticed ; often I are they preceded by symptoms of more or less active inflammation. The (i pus is frequently superficial, but most commonly deejj in the substance of [I the liver, and the entire parenchyma of that structure is not unfrequently 1 entirely destroyed by it. In such abscesses swelling and fluctuation may j be observed in the region of the liver, and the abscess opens externally ; it i may also empty itself into the general cavity of the belly, into the stomach, I into tlie intestine, or into the cavity of the chest. 456. It is therefore necessary to prevent such abscesses, which, however, 1 on account of their concealed mode of origin is often impossible. In ^ symptoms of inflammatory irritation of the liver, bleedings and long con- i' tinned antiphlogistic purgings, especially antimonial wine properly diluted, n are indicated. If the abscess show externally, it must be, as usual, opened. 1 If the outflowing pus be good and of white colour, the prognosis is more t) favourable than if it be of a yellowish brown colour. The powers of the I patient are to be supported by strengthening medicine, and a ready outlet I must be furnished for the pus. j Upon the various opinions regarding abscesses of the liver after injury of the head, I compare, Spare, a., CEuvres Chirurgicales, livr. x. chap. xii. Bertrandi, Memoire sur les Abces du Foie, qui se forment a I’occasion de Plaies de la Tete; in Memoires de I’Acad. de Chirurg., vol. iii. p. 486. PouTEAU, Oeuvres Posthumes, vol. ii. p. 129. Desault, Oeuvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. p. 63. Eicheraxtd, sur les Abcfes du Foie, qui accompagnent les Plaies de la Tete; in ; Journal de Me'decine, etc., par Corvisart, Leroux et Boyer. Frimaire, an xiir. i Ansiaux, Clinique Chirurgicale, Liege, 1816, p. 35. Textor, in Neuen Chiron., vol. i. part iii. p. 409. Dance, Archives Generales de Medecine. Jan. 1829. I OF WOUNDS OF THE FACE. 1 457. A very important object in the treatment of wounds of the face is the prevention of scars ; in all cases, therefore, if the wound gape widely, if it be irregular and large, if a strong beard or the peculiar position of the wound prevent the close lying of the sticking plaster, and no contra indications to quick union exist, the suture should be applied. Al- though wounds of the face usually bleed freely, yet the bleeding from the little vessels is safely stanched by the proper union of the edges. [The twisted suture upon thin pins is the best remedy in all wounds about the face excepting those of the eyelids, where, in consequence of their recession behind the bony margin of the orbit, they cannot be used. A cold wet rag is to be kept constantly applied, whichever suture is employed, and the suture itself must be removed after thirty or forty hours. Even if the wound be produced by a blunt instrument, it is advisable to attempt union with the suture. If the cut be at any part where there is hair the edges of the wound must be so carefully adjusted that no hairs should jut into them as thereby the union will be prevented, and irritation excited. J. F. S.] ’ 458. Wounds of the region of the Eyebrow, when they are especially dis- posed to union, if they be vertical, are always united with sticking plaster; but transverse wounds require the suture. If such wounds heal by suppu!