SYMPTOMS OF 360 which, by its operation on the organism, produces kydrophohia, Lat.; die Wasserscheue, Germ. ; Hydrophohie^ Fr.; and dog-madness {Rubies canina, Lat.; die Wuth, Germ,; la Rage, Fr.) From numerous and careful observations, it cannot be doubted that tlie bite of beasts much excited, or when disturbed during copulation, may produce canine madness. [Neither ourselves nor the French have any vernacular title for this dreadful disease in the human subject, both therefore use the Greek compound, the French, however giving it their national terminal; whilst the Germans have translated it. On the other hand, as regards the disease in the dog, there is a special title for it both in German and French; but we have none, and therefore indiscriminately apply the term hydrophobia i to the disease in the dog, of which, as will be presently shown, neither the dread of water, | nor incapability of swallowing it are to be properly considered as symptoms, whilst in man they are the most marked and characteristic. The Greeks had a special term fw dog-madness, xiiriru, or Xvtto., which is used by Homer, in the 9th book, 239th line of ' the Iliad; and Dr. Good has, in his Nosology, proposed the reintroduction of this title, calling the disease in the human subject Entasia lyssa. As, however, the disease is well known and understood by the term in common acceptation, it is better to leave it alone, than to produce confusion by idle pedantry.—J. F. S.] 357. Dog-madness develops itself, either of it own accord, (spontaneous i madness,) or from the transference of the poison. A high degree of heat, . sudden changes of heat and cold, bad food, want of water, and unsatisfied i sexual desires, are assumed as causes of the spontaneous development of this » madness. The spontaneous occurrence of hydrophobia in roan is denied I by many, as the principal symptom, to wit, the fear of water, belongs i also to several other diseases. Some observations have, however, put the ♦ possibility of the spontaneous development of canine madness in man i beyond doubt (o). Ziegler (b) fixes the origin of madness in the want of the instinctive degree of non- • rishment from blood and fiesh, and therefore call the disease Blut-durst (Bloodthirstinea) 1 or Fleischgier (Flesh-craving.) j 358. The signs of incipient madness in the dog are generally very doubt- -) ful, and are the more to be noticed, as numerous and careful observations »| have proved that the dread of water is by no means a decided sign of mad- -) ness in the dog, as generally stated (c). According to Hertwig’s (d) >1 frequent observations, the most important symptoms of the raving madneat 19 in dogs are, change of their usual manner, uneasiness, and prevailing dis- position to be continually changing and running away from their place of re- - sidence and bed (1) ; great disposition to lick cold substances; loss of appe- -< tite, especially for firm solid food, (some few dogs, however, make an excep- - tion to this, taking from time to time some mouthfuls of better food,) and i' great disposition to use those things which cannot assist in their nourishment, as wood, leather, straw, wool, and so on; they lick up not only their own and .i other dogs’ urine, but sometimes also eat their own dung. Obstinate cos- - tiveness, disposition to bite, especially when they are excited by anger, or r if the dog be of a biting and passionate temper, with many snaps in the air,' as if they would catch flies or other insects (2). And, most especially, a peculiar change in the voice and in the kind of bark, the former is harsh, hoarse, peevish, and uneasy-sounding, and the bark is always accomi)aiiied > with a short peculiar howl (3). In no dog does consciousness cease till shortly before death. All mad dogs can look at, lick up, and drink water (а) Manoob; in Act. Soc. Reg. Hafn., vol. ii. obs. xxxii. p. 408. New York Medical Repository of Original Essays, by Mitcheul, Pascalis, and Akebly, vol. V. (б) Salib. Med. Ghir. Zeit., 1821, vol. iii.p. 190. (c) Rost, loc. cit., p. 328. (d) In HOFKLANn's Journal, supplemental^ volume, 1828.—Beitrage lur niberen Kenntnisi der Wuthkrankheit Mer Tollheit der Hundr. Berlin, 1829.