780 DISLOCATION OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 1025. 'J'lie scapular end of tlie collar-bone can only be dislocated t/p. wards, (extremely seldom downwards beneath the acromion,') and the ■ separation of the two articular surfaces is not great. The cause is gene- • rally a severe fall upon the shoulder, by which it is violently turned back- - wards. The signs of this di.slocation arc pain on the top of the shoulder, depression of the shoulder, a great space between the acromion and scapular end of the collar-bone, or a projection of the latter; unaccustomed i motion of these two parts, impeded motion of the arm, especially in ele- ■ j ration, diminished distance of the shoulder from the chest, disappearance : of the prominence when the shoulders are drawn backwards, but which > reappears when it is let go; and if the finger be carried forward upon the spine of the blade bone it is stopped by the projecting end of the collar- ! bone. It has been hitherto assumed that the acromial end of the collar-bone can only be dislocated upwards ; at least, experience knew no other kind. Tournel (a), however, . saw a case in which the weight of a horse, in a sudden fall, caused separation and driving •; back of the blade-bone, the collar-bone still remaining fixed at its sternal end, but its • outer end, from which the inferior and coraco-clavicular ligaments were tom, wassepa- ] rated from both articular surfaces, and slipped beneath the acromion. The pivot : i motions of the arm could be made in the usual directions; the left arm was somewhat f longer than the right, the elbow and upper part of the arm lay against the side of the ij trunk; the voluntary motions, especially those upwards, were impossible, the patient (i could not bring his hand to his head; the communicated motions were free and painless; I' the shoulder had lost its rounded form, and below the acromion externally was a deep ) hollow. The shoulder had also two prominences, an internal and upper, formed by the ; acromion, and an external under by the lower end of the collar-bone. Neither numb- i ness of the fingers nor pain were present; the point of the left shoulder was much j nearer the breast-bone than the right; when the finger was carried along the spine of ' | the blade-bone from behind forwards to the acromion it was stopped by the projection I of the collar-bone. This was perfectly discernible, and disappeared, as well also as j the hollow beneath the acromion, when the shoulders were drawn back, the knee being f ^ placed between them; but so soon as this was left off, the projection formed by the end ^ j of the collar-bones and the depression beneath the acromion reappeared. With ; j Desault’s apparatus, and subsequently with that of Flammant, a cure was effected ' | without deformity, and without restriction of the motions of the arm. Melle(6) S examined after death, and described,such a dislocation of the outer end of the collar- i bone downwards. 1026. This dislocation is always easily reduced ; the arm is to be I raised up against the collar-bone, the scapular end of which is to Ite I depressed. Desault’s apparatus for fractured collar-bone is applicable, i with the alteration of putting a thick compress upon the scapular end of : the collar-bone, and the turns of the bandage which are carried over the I injured shoulder and the elbow, to be sufficiently tightened, and further, t the arm to be also fixed to the breast with a bandage. The first days the i injured parts are to be moistened with cold dispersing applications. As 1 often as the bandage becomes loose it must be tightened. In from four ' to six weeks it may be removed; most commonly tliere remains greater ; or leSs displacement, which, however, does not interfere with the motions of the shoulder. [The dislocation of the collar-bone upon the spine of the blade-bone is one of the most tiresome accidents we have to do with ; at least in all the cases I have had to deal with, and the injury is not unfrequent, I have never been able by any contrivance to keep it in place, and have therefore given up attempting to keep it reduced, and only endeavour to keep it at rest, so tliat it may form new connexions on the scapular spine.—J. F. S.] (n) Archives generales de Mcdccine, 1837, Ue- {b) Nova Acta physico-medica, 1773, vol. v. eember. P-