531 OF THE LARYNX—OF THE VERTEBRiE. ,ime dividing the lari/nx throughout its whole length, and the cartilages are then to be brought into their proper place. The difficulty of breathing oeing thereby diminished, the edges of the wound are to be brought to- other M'ith sticking plaster, but if it continue the wound shoiild be e t jpen. In either case inflammation must be prevented or diminished by the strictest antiphlogistic treatment. VI.—OF FRACTURE OF THE VERTEBR.®. (Fractura Vertebrarum, Lat.; Sruch der Hirbelbeine, Germ.; Fracture de la Co- lonne Vertdbrale, Fr.) CuEKOTTE, F. A. E., Diss. Med.-Chir. sistens casum Subluxationis Vertebrae Dorsi :nm fractura complicate, post factam repositionem et varia dira symptomata duodecima iemum septimana funeste. Argent., 1761. StEMMERiNG, S. T., Bemerkungen iiber Verrenkung und Bruch des Riickgraths. Berlin, 1793. 8vo. ’Cooper, Sir Astlet P., Treatise on Dislocations and on Fractures of the Joints, 1822. Also his Lectures on Surgery by Tyrrell,. Bell, Sir Charles, On Injuries of the Spine and Thigh-bone. London, 1824. 4to. Wenzel, C., Von den Krankheiten am Riickgrathe. Bamberg, 1824. foL, with light copper-plates, p. 335. Lisfranc, Histoire generale des Fractures de la Colonne Vertebrate; in his Clinique Jhirurgicale, in Revue Medicale, vol. iv. p. 238. 1825. Lawrence, Well., On Dislocations of the Vertebrae; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii. 825. Brodie, Sir Benj. C., Pathological and Surgical Observations relating to Injuries of he Spinal Cord; in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx. 1837. Phillips, Benj., Account of a Case of Fracture and Displacement of the Atlas; in iled.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx. 1837. Lacth, in Memoires de 1’Academic de Me'decine, vol. iv. 612. The fracture may occur in the spinous, transverse, or oblique pro- xsses, or in the vertebra itself. The spinous processes are most subject to fracture, and this may happen vithout any accompanying injury of the spinal marrow. It is distinguished jy the altered direction of the spinous process, by its mobility, and crepi- ation ; it, cannot, however, be decided whether the fracture do not also sxtend into the body of the bone. [Fracture of the processes alone, so far as I have had opportunity of observing, are lertainly of much less frequency than fracture of the body of the vertebra, which may lometimes, though not always, accompany. I do not think I have seen fracture of the ipinous processes alone more than twice. The mobility of the spinous process, but not (Iteration of its direction, which may be or not when it is broken oft' the arch, is its irincipal indication, and distinguishes it from fracture through the body, in which the 'pinous process always sinks and is immovable. It may be accompanied with con- nission, or compression of the spinal cord by blood within the vertebral canal, and hereby simulating, the usual symptoms resulting from bony compression of the cord n fracture through the body, with its displacement, is very liable to be mistaken for t; but the regularity of the ridge of the spinous processes, generally existing, points mt the difference.—J. F. S.] ° J e , 9 613. Fracture of the body of a vertebra is rare (1), on account of its •leep seat, its shortness and thickness, and the mobility of the whole spinal ®:olumn. It can only be produced by very great violence, and is then ;| 2 M 2 I