123 SCARS. so that it had a lance-like shape, pointed above and wide below, and, by partially dividing its cellular connexions with the fascia of the fore arm, freed it so as, without difficulty, to bring its inner edge in contact with the corresponding edge of the scar wound. 1 hoped, also, by detaching the slip that the skin on the outside of the arm, which I also separated from its subjacent connexions, might be shifted upwards, might participate in forming the principal cicatrix on the upper arm, and by its wavy direction from the arm-pit to the outside of the wrist, might, when hereafter its contraction shall commence, render the drawing up of the fore to the upper arm less probable, as the scar, not being straight but wavy, would be of greater length, and, being unequally acted on, would ultimately be- come straight, though without shortening, so as to restrict the straightening of the fore arm. Having proceeded thus far, I presumed I had done with the knife, and then attempted to extend the fore arm; but, having used as much violence as I thought advisable, although it was not much, I found not the least yielding, but the fascia around the front of the elbow-joint being rendered very tense and raised, I thought this might be the obstacle, and therefore, having divided it carefully upon a director thrust beneath it, I repeated the attempt at extension, with no better success. By the division of tlie fascia the muscles passing over the front of the elbow-joint were exposed, and when the hand was pulled on the m. supinator radii longus becoming extremely tense, and seeming to be the principal resistant, I passed a director between its belly and that of the m. flexor carpi radialis longior, and cut the former across. No- thing was gained by this, and I then, with the concurrence of my friend and colleague Green, passed a director under the tendon of the m. biceps flexor cubiti, and divided it as it crossed the front of the joint. Attempts, though not violent, at extension were then repeated; but, being unsuccessful to any material extent greater than a right angle, we determined to rely on passive extension, but not to be commenced at once. In the course of the operation the internal and external cutaneous nerves were divided as they crossed the front of the elbow and each gave a smart shock to the patient. I may observe also that I very nearly divided the brachial artery by accident, as, after the division of the tendon of the biceps, it started up, and the slight yielding which the fore arm had allowed, putting it on the stretch, had stopped its pulsation, so that it escaped me, although I had sought for it and for the median nerve, for the pur- pose of avoiding them, and I mistook it for a band of fascia and cellular tissue till, the pull on the fore arm being discontinued, its pulsation returned and discovered its cha- racter. The edges of the inner wound were now brought together and connected with seven twisted sutures, beginning from the wrist and pinning upwards; but there was consi- derable stress on the skin, so that I feared the pins would ulcerate through, and that adhesion would not take place, as the interspaces would not completely meet; but they together with the outer wound on the fore arm were supported with some adhesive circular straps. ^ The patient was then sent to bed, a wet cloth applied over the whole arm; and a circular bandage carried round her chest having been fastened to the head of the bed- stead, to prevent her trunk slipping down, a bandage was wound round the wrist, and its ends being carried down over the foot-board of the bed, a four-pound weight was ^ pulled the hand so as to promote extension of the fore arm, by tiring the flexing muscles, without giving the patient much pain. R tinct. opii 3ss. ex mist camph. stat. ^ pec. 8. She had passed a tolerable night, and when seen this morning was free from pain, the weight not pulling heavily, and she is without fever. Towards night she was very restless, and the arm becoming very painful and uneasy from the pull unon It, the weight was removed. R morph, mur. gr.ss. stat., which was given at 2 a.ji ^ i taking the sedative she had a good night, but is feverish this morning- her pulse quick and skin hot. ^e weight was reapplied, and the uneasiness seeming .z.sre'i?’ X r