789 OF THE EL130W-J0INT. Mjrterj' may be torn. Tlie olechranon forms a considerable projection, on he back of the upper-arm, whereby the lower part of the m. triceps is . wisled, and above the projection of the olechranon the upper-arm seems 0 be somewhat hollowed. On the front of the joint is felt a large hard swelling, beneath the tendon of the m. biceps; the fore-arm is fixed in 1 half-bent position, except when there is considerable tearing of the liga- nents. 1047. If the cubit alone, be thrown backwards, without simultaneous lislocation of the spoke-bone, behind the upper-arm-bone, the deformity )f the joint is considerable, the fore-arm and hand being twisted inwards, he olechranon projecting, w'hilst the head of the spoke-bone retains its natural position ; on the outside of the elbow-joint a remarkable projection, Old on the inner a pit; the fore-arm cannot be straightened except by dolence, which will reduce the dislocation, neither can it be bent farther han to a right angle (A. Cooper) ; the arm has been, however, observed uotionless in extension, and every attempt at bending was painful and msuccessful; pronation and supination could, however, be freely per- brmed, the latter somewhat less than the former. If the fore-arm be but Jttle bent, the annular ligament of the spoke-bone remains uninjured; ut on greater bending, this ligament, the upper part of the interosseous gament, and several muscular fibres are torn, and the head of the spoke- ^lone rests against the upper-arm. The distinguishing marks are, projec- > lion of the olechranon, and the twisting of the fore-arm inwards {a). 1048. The lateral dislocation may be either complete or incomplete; hat outiuards is more frequent than that inwards. In the former, the nternal joint-surface of the upper arm-bone projects more or less, and the bint-surface of the cubit is thrust outwards ; the point of the olechranon ests on the back of the upper-arm, in consequence of which the fore-arm 5 fixed in a slightly bent position. In the latter, a part of the sigmoid avity projects, more or less, on the inner, and the joint-surface of the ipper-arm-bone on the outer side; the fore-arm is permanently bent. L'hese dislocations cannot happen without tearing of the ligaments of the Ibow-joint; even the muscles of the fore-arm may be torn at their irigin ; hence also frequently, the fore-arm is not so fixed in its position, s in dislocation backwards. In complete lateral dislocation, the pro- Bction of the ends of the fore- and upper-arm are much more decided han in the incomplete, and on account of the great tearing of the soft •arts the fore-arm is movable in every direction. As in dislocations of the fore-arm, the joint-surfaces are mostly still in contact, so fiere may be crackling on moving the joint. 1049. Dislocation backwards of the fore-arm, is mostly produced by a all upon the outstretched hand, whilst the fore-arm is bent and the upper ;xed. If the fore-arm be violently forced to one or other side, lateral '.islocation may be produced. lOoO. Dislocations of the elbow-joint always produce severe inflamma- ory symptoms, and may lead to gangrene and nervous symptoms; generally, lowever, they are not dangerous. If left alone, they in a short time become rre<Jucible; the dislocation backwards has, however, been reduced after xisting two or three months. If in dislocation backwards, the joint- ,.W Asti.ey, above cited, p. 472.— July, 1839, No. 228.—Michaklis in von Graefe 1830.—Sedili.ot; in Gazette and Walther’s Journal, vol. xxix, p. 296. •b-dicalc, 1S39, No. 24.—Froriep’s N. Notizen,