INTRODUCTION. h DEFINITION OF SURGERY. ITS RELATION TO THE HEALING ART IN || GENERAL.—DIVISION OF SURGICAL DISEASES. All diseases to which the animal organism is exposed, are the object of the science of healing, the purpose of which is their prevention, cure, or alleviation. The means we employ to these ends are either dietetic or pharmaceutic,.or they consist in the application of suitable mechanism, which we call surgical means, and the doetrine of their proper employ- ,1i ment, which is called surgery. 1^ Every mechanical influence employed with skill upon the diseased [(i^oi^nisni is called a surgical operation. This influence consists either in rtja direct interference with the form and natural connexion of the part \Bloody operations, Akiurgie {a). Germ.) ; or ‘ only in a momentary or continued application of mechanism fitted to the surface of our bodies; to w hich belong bandages and machines, simple manipulations for restoring the natural position of parts, and the employment of suitable mechanism or repairing parts which have been destroyed {Kosmetih (6), Germ.) There are diseases which specially require the employment of one or ither class of the means just mentioned: the purpose, however, of the lealing art is in most cases but imperfectly attained, if the medical man )e not possessed of the requisite knowledge for deciding upon the neces- ary connexion of these means, so as properly to conduct their operation >y a sufficient acquaintance with the laws of our organism, whence it ecessarily follows that there cannot be established any true separation etween the so-called medical and surgical treatment. The employment of surgical means calls for peculiar dexterity and ptness which natural talents and disposition and long practice can alone lonfer. “Esse autem chirurgus debet,” says Celsus(c), “ adolescens, aut er(e adolescentiee propior, manu strenuh, stabili nec unquam intremis- ente, edque non minus sinistra quam dextrd promptus, acie oculorum acri ardque; animo intrepidus, immisericors, sic, ut sanari velit eum, quern vcepit, non ut clamore ejus motus, vel magis, quam res desiderat, properet, d minus, quam necesse est, secet; sed perinde faciat omnia, ac si nullus rvagitibus alterius affectus oriretur.” Only in reference therefore to the hysical and psychical characters of the medical man, can there be any i vision in the practice of medicine and surgery: in their attainment they ".nnot be separated, and, by the union of medical and surgical study alone, n the foundation be destroyed upon which so much bungling, and so unworthy of the spirit of high art, have hitherto been sup- In) A*»), the edge of a knife ; tgyo’f, an opcra- 1 VOL. I, SKofftlu, to set in order. Ue Medicina, prtof. ad lib. vii. U