444 TREATMENT OF PENETRATING lungs had not the slightest adhesion to to t\\cpleura, but was in its natural detached state. The course of the ball through the substance of the lungs was readily traced by dis^ section, for an induration of the substance of the lungs was formed wherever it had passed; this was best seen by making transverse sections of this thickened part. The appearance of the lungs in the right side was of the same kind, but in a less degree. The course of the ball was nearly through the upper lobe of both lungs, at nearly the distance of two inches and a half from the highest part of them where it entered the left lungs. The portion of lungs above the ball did not contain air, but the cells were filled with serum, so that it was more dense than natural, and sunk in water; but this part was not in any degree shrunk or contracted. It had no communication with the branches of the bronchia, the adhesive inflammation consequent to the wound having consolidated all the parts above the line through which it passed.” (pp. 171, 72.) Upon this subject see also Bremond ; in the Memoires de I’Academie des Sciences, an 1739. Norris; in the Memoirs of the Royal Society of London, vol. iv. Richters, Chirurgische Bibliothek, vol. iv. p. 695. Abernethy’s Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 178. Williams, On the Effect of Air penetrating the Cavities of the Chest in Wounds of the Thorax; in London Medical and Physical Journal, June 1823. Reybard, above cited. [480* In regard to the prognosis of wounds of the chest, Hennen ob- serves :—“ I should be unwilling to lull either a patient or a Surgeon into a false security, or to underrate the real danger of any case ; but I have seen so many wounds of the thorax, both from pike and sabre thrusts, and from gun-shot, do well ultimately, that I cannot but hold out great hopes, where the third day has been safely got over, for though occasional haemo- ptysis may come on, at almost any period during a case, and its approach can neither be entirely prevented nor anticipated, the more deadly haemor- rhages are usually within the first forty-eight hours ; and yet to this alarm- ing symptom, when within moderate bounds, the safety of the sufferer is often due. Dr. Gregory of Edinburgh was in the habit of stating in his lectures, that of twenty-six wounds of the thorax received at the battle near Quebec two only were fatal. ” (pp. 386, 87.)] 481. Penetrating wounds of the chest are most conveniently treated under the following conditions: — 1. Simple penetrating wou?ids; 2. Wounds complicated with the presence of foreigri bodies3. Penetrating wounds with bleeding; 4. Penetrating wounds with protrusion of part of the lungs. 482. Simple penetrating Wounds of the Chest, or those in which tlie cavity of the pleura merely is opened, are rare. Their treatment consists in the speedy closing of the wound, and in the prevention of inflamma- tion. The patient, after a deep inspiration, should expire, and then the wound is to be carefully closed with sticking plaster, covered with a compress, and fastened with a broad chest-bandage and a shoulder-bandage. Tlie patient is to be treated on a strictly antiplilogistic plan. If the inflammation be prevented the wound heals quickly. If inflammation come on and be long continued, consecutive extravasation from exudation of tlie pleura is frequently produced after a lapse of fourteen days, and renders the opening of the cavity of the chest necessary. 483. Foreign Bodies, wliich complicate penetrating wounds of the chest, are either broken pieces of the injuring instrument, balls, pieces of clotlies, driven into the wound, or splinters of the ribs. If the state of the injury do not itself point out the presence of foreign bodies, the symptoms by