788 DISLOCATION dislocation, in the absence of previous injury, in the joint not being the seat of pain, swelling, and the like, but especially in tlie unliurt condition 'i of the capsule and of the tendon of tlie m. biceps, as well as in the siinul. taneous existence of a pcs equinus in the same patient; in the form of the ■< head of the upper-arm-bone being peculiar, and cpiite differeiit from any ^ change which he has noticed as consequent on disease or in old dislocation >i of the usual kind. Smith is not disinclined to find a resemblance between -s this congenital dislocation and that described by many writers, as partial h dislocation of the upper-arm-bone, as well as tliat arising sometimes fromti rheumatic affection of the shoulder-joint, (A. Cooper,) or as an untisoali] atrophy of the upper-arm (Curling.) He also supposes that in sub- - acromial dislocation, the absence of the natural joint-surface, the complete n resemblance of both unnatural articular cavities, the uninjured state of i the tendons and ligaments, as well as the peculiar form of the head of the upper-arm-bone, speaks in favour of tlie congenital existence of this dis-- location. With the few examinations which have been as yet made of i this subject, it is not, however, possible to determine with certainty :j whether the cause of the dislocation should always be sought for in an j original deficient formation of the joint surfaces, or whether such disloca- )• tions be not produced by the peculiar position of the child, and duringu birth, and the particular changes subsequently found, on examination, do i* not depend on the long continuance of the dislocation, and the previously :i incomplete development of the bones, and so on. In support of this opinion at least speaks an observation of Gdillard (a), who reduced a congenital dislocation of the upper-arra-bone by horizontal extension after: sixteen years. The reduction was effected after several futile attempts, and when - effected it relapsed tivice, and was again reduced. After the last reduction, however, the upper-arm for two years and a-half was not displaced, and the movements of tlie « limb were almost entirely natural. VII.—OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE FORE-ARM. 1044. These dislocations are distinguished into dislocations of the fore-1 arm from the upper-arm, and the separate dislocations of the spoke-boue e and cubit. A.—OF THE DISLOCATION OF THE FORE-ARM AT THE ELBOW-JOINT.' (Luxatio Antibrachii, Lat.; Verrenkung des Vorderarmes, Germ.; Luxation de VAvant-hras, Fr.) 1045. Complete dislocations of the elbow occur but rarely, on account;; of the great strength of the joint, and are always accompani^ with con- siderable tearing of the soft parts. The dislocation may be eitlier h(u;k- • wrads or latered, but dislocation forwards is impossible without simulta- neous fracture of the olechranon. 1046. The dislocation hachioards is the most common, and always the most complete. The coronoid process of tlie cubit gets behind the pulley- like joint-surface of the upper-arm-bone, and rests in tlie pit formed for receiving the olechranon. The joint-surfaces of the upper-arm-bone are thrown upon the front of the spoke-bone and cubit, between the coronoid process and the insertion of the m. biceps. If the lateral ligaments are torn, the muscles surrrounding the joint, the skin, and even the brachial (n) Revue Mcdicalc, Aug., 1840.