581 BONES OF THE LEG. C 701. If the shin-bone alone he broken, {Fractura Tibia, Lat.; Bruch *der Schienbein, Germ.; Fracture du Tibia, Fr.,) tlie fracture has usually ■4, traiisvei’se direction, and may happen in the middle or at either end. ifhe broken ends are rarely displaced, and then only according to the jl hickness of the limb. This happens so much less frequently, the nearer i]he fracture is to the upper end of the bone. The diagnosis is, there- , ore, often difficult; the patient frequently can walk after the injury; K te feels a fixed pain; an irregularity is often discovered at one part of the t hin-bone, and often crepitation on moving the broken ends. The treat- \ nent of this fracture is easy; a slight extension is sufficient, if the broken I nds be displaced, to put them right, and a simple contentive apparatus, as ij ecommended in fracture of both bones of the leg. ^ 702. Fracture of the Splint-bone (^Fractura Fibula, Lat.; Bruch der H iVadenbein, Germ. ; Fracture du Perone, Fr.) may be produced by 0 n inward or outward turning of the foot, or by the immediate effect 0 f violence ; and the fracture may be either in the body of the splint-bone, 1 r in the neighboui’hood of the outer ankle. In fracture of the body of !j he splint-bone the limb is not shortened, and retains its natural direction ; slight yielding is scarcely felt at the seat of fracture in pressing the t Dger along the bone. The violence received on the outside of the leg, 1 nd the great ecchymosis assist the diagnosis. This fracture is fre- iluently accompanied with dislocation inwards of the shin-bone, and if it iiie mistaken, the foot retains its disposition to dislocate after seeming raeduction. The inner ankle always again leaves the joint surfaces of the stragalus, thrusts the skin violently inwards, which becomes inflamed, reaks, and even runs into mortification. The broken end may alone be lisplaced, and driven inwards against the shin-bone. If the seat of frac- re be very low down, it may be discovered by the touch, which is not ossible in the upper third of the splint-bone. Crepitation is often ob- irved on pressing the fractured ends inwards, or in alternate adduction nd abduction of the foot. The most striking sign is always the inclina- tion of the foot outwards, so that its inner edge is downwards, and the •futer upwards. If dislocation of the shin-bone inwards be connected with ilhis fracture, the bone is shorter, its long axis falls on the inner side, the fjf hole shin-bone lies obliquely from above inwards, and produces beneath }!|he skin, especially at the lower part, a considerable prominence. The -Splint-bone follows the same direction as the shin-bone to the seat of liracture, from which it is directed obliquely outwards. The foot is not tilnly inclined outwards, but so turned upon its own proper axis, that its ejole is turned up, and its inner edge directed downwards. Fracture of the -^plint-bone may also be connected with dislocation of the foot outwards, ■: ^ften simultaneously with fracture of the inner ankle or of the shin-bone, Und other complication may exist, as, in dislocation of the ankle-joint, will :<«e more particularly described. 703. The treatment of simple fracture of the splint-bone is unattended hfdth difficulty. The foot must be kept bent inwards, to separate the 0? Token ends from the shin-bone. This is effected by the same apparatus that for fracture of both bones of the leg, with this difference, that lone inner splint is applied only to the inner ankle, but the outer continued 1 outer ankle. Or, upon the inside of the leg is put a folded natt pad, the bottom of which rests on the inner ankle, and the upper end pon the inner condyle of the thigh-bone. A sufficiently strong wooden