246 BONY ANCHYLOSIS. edge, where unapplied, still exhibited a trace of cartilage. On clearing off the half-fatty half-ligamentous structure into which the ligaments had been converted, the ends of the ' bone were found close together and not separated as within. There was a slight indi- cation of cartilage between them on the exterior, but on the interior of the joint the union seemed to be bony. The posterior ligament was undistinguishable, l>eing involved in the fibrous mass between the thigh and shin bone. In front of the thigh-bone at top of the pulley for the knee-cap, there was a slight remnant of what was probably syno- vial membrane, but it was little vascular. Of the second cause or inflammation of the surrounding parts, in which the parts themselves partake of it, John Hunter gives the following Case.—A lady had an inflammation come on from the opening of a sacculus mucosns ■ on her elbow, which inflammation was very violent and extended to the joint, soon i after which she lay in and died of puerperal fever. On opening the joint, soft union was found to have taken place, which, if she had lived, would probably have become bony, and the joint would have been anchylosed, merely from adhesive inflammation.” ' (p. .522.) The following very similar instance is given by Mayo (a);— Case.—“ A young man had a lacerated wound of the ankle; ten days after erysipelas» had supervened, and matter had formed about the joint; the integument sloughing, an : opening could be seen into the fore and outer part of the ankle-joint, the cartilage of f which became rapidly absorbed. The patient suffered severe pain, which he described! as gnawing, throbbing pain, with occasional violent shootings through the joint, and i a distressing sense of grating when the limb was disturbed. The patient’s strengA de-- dining rapidly, amputation was thought necessary. The limb was removed two months» after the accident. “ Upon a vertical section being made of the ankle, one common change was found tos have taken place in both the joints, which the upper and under surfaces of the astra-r galus contribute to form. In each of these joints the cartilage had entirely disappeared;: and the denuded ends of the bones were joined together by a layer of semitransparentt and organised lymph, from a sixth to a quarter of an inch in thickness. This union byi l3Tnpli was a step towards union by bone. One circumstance appeared to me of peculianr interest. The interior of the bones was perfectly healthy, but the surfaces to which- the lymph adhered, were for the depth of one or two lines, extremely vascular. They' combined with that vascularity the roughness of surface and softness of texture de- scribed as found upon the articular aspect of bone in the third kind of ulceration oi cartilage, specified above, (p. 228.) I conclude, from hence, that long anchylosis may^ under favourable circumstances, take place after that form of ulceration of cartilage* which depends upon inflammation of the adjacent surface of the bone.” (pp. 68, 9.) Bony Anchylosis may occur in any joint, either by the conversion into bone of thei cartilages forming symphyses, as in those connecting the pelvic bones together, whicbi can scarcely be called disease,—1st, by the conversion of ligament and fibro-cartilage, an in the anterior and crucial ligaments, and the intervertebral substance of the spine, which; scarcely at all diflers from ossification of the s)Tnphyses just mentioned, instance* of which are far from uncommon in elderly persons as regards all the vertebra), except' the two uppermost, which, however, in very rare cases, are also in like manner not onb j united by bone to each other, but also to the occipital bone, of both which conditions w»j have examples in St. Thomas’s museum; in these the articular surfaces have been dei» prived of their cartilages either by ulceration or ossification, and the true joints destroye«-i by bony union : 2dly, by conversion of the ligamentous capsules alone into bone, the cobs tained joints still existing ; this occurs in the capsules of the articular processes of th l' vertebrae, and is not to be confused with that just mentioned. I am not aware that i i happens on any other joints. One or other, or all these forms together, are found i't elderly persons. But the most important form of bony anchylosis is that which I have mentioned abovid and produced, as 1 believe, from the granulations of the joint-ends of bones, the cartiU ( ginous covering of which, as well as the articular surfaces, having been destroyed by supi puration, whether arising from acute or from scrofulous inflammation; and thus circmtir stanccd, “ the two bones are,” as John Hunter observes, “ united into one exactly simila i to compound fracture.” This kind of anchylosis is undoubtedly most common in th ' hip-joint, where the inflammation seems to run more readily into suppuration than i any other joint; it is next frequent in the bones of the wrist and instep, but least ustu in the elbow, knee, and shoulder; indeed, as regards the latter, anchylosis is, under an circumstances, rare. Instances of anchylosis, even of the lower jaw to the tempon (u) On Ulceration of the Cartilajjej of Joints, and on Anchylosis; in Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. six.