590 UNNATURAL JOINTS TREATED The pressure may be employed either wltli tlie usual apparatus of splints as in recent fracture, and at the same time with padded straps and tour' niquets upon the fractured ends (a), or by simple strong pressure, with swathing of the whole limb, and graduated compresses with tightly drawn rollers (5), These modes of treatment, although many cases prove their good effect, do not, however, frequently effect a cure, because the necessary degree of inflammation cannot be produced, and applies rather to cases of not long standing and to those in which no firm intersubstance is formed. The repeated application of blisters on the surface, opposite the seat of fracture, has been recommended, at six or eight weeks after the occurrence of the accident (c). Can- terization of tlie skin with caustic potash (d), and painting with tincture of iodine (e). [I believe that pressure and perfect rest are the most efficient remedy for fractures in which there is tardiness or indisposition to deposit earthy matter in callus; and I have very great doubt whether firm union is ever effected except when its absence liaa arisen from this deficiency alone. In simple fracture it can only be surmised what the actual cause of the want of union is, and in operating on such cases it appears quite as often that the diagnosis which has been formed is wrong, as that it is right. It must also be remembered that the deposit of earthy matter in the callus is frequently a very slow process, double and treble the time beyond that ordinarily requisite for the pur- pose, sometimes elapsing before a fracture is perfectly united. Chelius has just men- tioned that an unnatural joint may be considered as formed if more than six months have elapsed after the fracture, and the ends of the fracture be still movable. But Amesbury mentions cases which have united by pressure after six, eight, ten, and even sixteen months have gone by. And therefore I cannot but think that these must only have depended on deficient earthy deposit; for cases have occurred again and again in which pressure of all kinds has been employed without advantage, and when operated upon no callus connexion has been found. That the pressure to be employed in these cases should be sufficiently great and so directed as to bring the fractured ends closely together cannot be doubted, and in frac- tures which unite slowly is absolutely necessary. But I am not quite sure it is necessary that the pressure should be so great as to produce pain in the course of a few days after the application of the apparatus, as stated by Amesbury, although “ iu the different cases it differed very much in degree. In some of them it amounted only to a slight aching pain, accompanied with now and then a lancinating sensation in the fracture; but the inconvenience felt in all the cases varied more or less in the course of the day; aud I am not aware that in any one of them it was at any period sufficiently severe to affect the pulse—certainly not so as to produce any noticeable fever.” (p. 800.) External irritation in these cases, so far as I have seen, is of little value.—J. F. S.] 717. For the purpose of destroying the cartilaginous surfaces on the ends of the bone, and to produce a suitable degree of plastic inflamma- tion, various kinds of caustic have been employed, strong nitric acid (Ollenroth)(/), caustic potash (the younger CiiinE) (1), (Hew'SOx) (g), butyr of antimony (Weilinger) (A), and nitrate of silver (Kirkhide) (j). Here also belong (Mayor) (A) experiments of repeatedly introducing be- tween the ends of the bone a metallic canula, and in it a steel probe dipped in boiling water, and the injection of some irritating fluid into the wound (Hulse) (Z). (aj Amesbury, Jos., above cited. {b) Wright’s three Cases of Cure of False Joints, by u pressure apparatus; in American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol ii. p. 270. Fleury, Des efiets de la Compression dans le traitement de plusieurs maladies externes et sur- tout dans les Fractures et Fausses Articulations, avec qitelaues reHexions surcette derniere maladie ; in tue Memorial des liOpitauxdu Midi, par Dklpech, Sept., 1830, p. 539. (c) Brodie; in London Medical and Surgical Journal, October, 1823. (d) Hartshore, Philadelphia Medical Recorder, 1826, April. (e) Buchanan, cited at the head of this article. —Truszn, in Preuss Vcreinsieitung, Juni, 18^ p. 114.—Willoughby; in Transactions of the Medical Society of the State of New York, Albany, vol. i.pt. ii. p. 76. (/) Bernstein, Tiber Verrenkungen und B«n* bruche. Second Kdit., Jena, 1819, p. 280. (rt) North American Medical and Surgical Jour- nal. Philadelphia, 1838, Jan. (A) Rust’s Magazin,vol. xxxiv. p. (t) American Journal of tlie Medical Sciences, Feu., 1835. ^. . . (A) Nouveau Systeme de Deligation Chirurgicaie, &c. 8vo. Geneva, 1832. _ . (/) American Journal of Medical Sciences, reo. 1834.