291 UNION BY ADHESION. |i quite amorphous, ■witliout any trace of organization, except that, -when coagulated, it I may be more or less indistinctly fibrous and covered with oil globules, appearances which, K however, have notliiug in common with the organization which atterwards ensues. ^ The corpuscles which the fibrinous matter, very soon after exudation, is found to contain, I have been alleged to be the colourless corpuscles of the blood which have escaped front a the vessels; but tliis is not the case. As already said, none of the corpuscles of the blood pass out along with the exuded fluid as long as the vessels are entire. The cor- Bpuscles in exuded matter are new formations, developed after exudation, developed m it, in fact, as in a blastema.” (p. 271.) t i.- Of “ healing hg the first intention or adhesion ” Jones says: “ In this case the matter exuded on the cut surfaces becomes forthwith, and all of it converted into tissues 'Cel- lular tissue and capillaries—by which the divided parts are reunited. An epithelium or epidermis is then formed ou the surface in the ordinary way, and cicatrization is completed.” (p. 280.) The formation of the cellular tissue is thus described by the same writer:—“There are formed numerous round nuclei (exudation corpuscles) in the cytoblastema, which elongate, becoming slender and arrange themselves one after another in rows. At the same time the cytoblastema is resolved into flat fibres from l-5600th to 1- 3700th of an inch broad. On the surface of these flat fibres lie the nuclei which become partly absorbed, partly coalesce to form nucleus and elastic fibres. The broad fibres either remain at this stage of development, in this state resembling the fibres of tlie middle coat of the arteries, or they split into finer fibrils, begin to curl, and become true cellular tissue. Mr. Gulliver, appealing to the fibrous structure which fibrin presents immediately on coagulation, has been ted to express doubts as to the universality of the application of Schwann’s doctrine. Mr. Gui.liver is quite correct when he says, that he could never see any satisfactory evidence that the fibrils of fibrin are changed cells. Direct observation clearly shows that the fibrin is at once formed into fibres in the act of coagulating. But Mr. Gulliver is not correct in adducing the fibrous structure of fibrin as an argument against the development of fibres from cells.” (p. 273.) The development of new vessels, in fact, is in itself a process of organization which presupposes the development or organization of other tissues. New vessels are not formed for the purpose of “ vitalizing ” “ effusions of the organizable materials of the blood,” for such effusions are already vitalized. It is from such effusions that the new blood-vessels themselves are developed, and that along with the development or organi- zation of other tissues, such as the cellular. The blood-vessels are formed in order to fetch and carry away the materials concerned in the nutrition and further development of these tissues. All the best observations on the development of new vessels hitherto, tend to the establishment of the proposition, that it takes place in this way. At the same time that the new cellular or other tissue is being developed, cells are formed, which coalesce with and open into each other, and form net-works of capillary vessels, at first quite separate from and independent of the old vessels of the part, with which they only after- wards enter into communication, as Mr. Hunter supposed.” (pp. 274, 275.) Lawrence observes:—“ An objection has been taken to the employment of the term infiammation, iu reference to that process by which a recent wound is united; for, in fact, under favourable circumstances, we find the union will take place without the oc- currence of any great vascular disturbance of the part. Often you will not be able to notice any swelling, redness, heat, or pain ; not any of those circumstances which are considered necessary to establish the presence of inflammation. In fact, if those cir- cumstances occur, that is, if inflammation takes place in the part, recognisable by the circumstances which we ordinarily observe as characterizing it, the union by adhesion is disturbed and affected. The occurrence, therefore, of inflammation, in its obvious and distinctly recognisable character, interferes with and prevents the accomplishment of adhesion.” (p. 522.) The following is the brief review, by Bennett, of the several opinions now held in regard to the formation of new vessels:— “ It is now well understood that the appearance of vessels in colourless tissues, as in -• the conjunctiva, is not owing to their being newly formed, but to the over-distension of : those which were previously too transparent to be visible. In the exudation poured I out on serous membranes or on granulating surfaces, vessels which had no previous exist- ence are produced, and the manner in which this takes place is not yet definitely deter- mined. Two views have been advanced: 1st, That new vessels are formed in connexion ■ With the old ones, by the escape of a blood-corpuscle, hollowing out for itself a channel ; the exudation, which subsequently becomes a vessel; 2nd, that the new vessel r arises independently of the old one, from minute points, which become enlarged, and I atterwards connect themselves with the old ones. This opinion, which was advanced U 2 I