478 FISTULOUS WOUNDS OP STOMACH ; OF lAVER. ulcer of the internal coat, as the patient stated that six months previous to her applying to Cooke she was attacked with constipation and violent pain at the pit of the stomach, which resisted every remedy, till the nineteenth day, when the fistula showed itself. The patient was thirty-nine years old. The fistulous opening was immediately by the ' side of the nmhilicus, and into it a buck-shot might have been readily passed. On removing the bandage a small quantity of bile was suddenly discharged, after which a small quantity of a different (gastric?) fluid came slowly away. These discharges were attended with great pain, on account of their acrid quality. The whole surface of the abdomen was excoriated, inflamed, and intolerably painful. A flexible catheter, thirteen inches long, was introduced its whole length before meeting any resistance, when the extremity suddenly met with an obstacle, by pushing against which, or even by slightly agitating the instrument, strong efforts to vomit were produced. With- drawing the catheter, we desired her to drink a glass of water. She did so, and in twenty seconds the whole was discharged through the fistula, as we ascertained by mea- suring it. The direction of the fistula was upward, and slightly inclining backwards, with about the same inclination to the right side. We came to the conclusion that the opening within was at or about the pyloric orifice of the stomach, and that the catheter entered the stomach and pressed against its cardial portion. The treatment consisted in covering the inflamed surface with basilicon, spread on fine linen, and covering the whole abdomen with adhesive plaster spread on ox bladder, in which a hole over the fistula was made for the escape of the discharge. A compress and bandage were ap- plied over these, and directed to be reapplied after every discharge. Mucilaginous drinks, a diet of rye mash and molasses, and nourishing clysters were ordered, the patient being much emaciated for want of proper nonrishment, every thing having passed off undigested through the fistula, and no evacuation had taken place in the natural way for ten days. The external irritation soon ceased, and the bladder was then applied to the skin for a protection with the happiest effect. The bandage was gradually tightened, and a cylindrical compress laid over the course of the fistulous canal. She slowly but steadily recovered. In a few days the alvine evacuations were restored to their natural outlet, and the discharges from the fistula began to decrease. In thirty days the opening was closed, and the fistula apparently obliterated. Several months have elapsed since that event, and she continues in excellent health.] B.—OF WOUNDS OF THE LIVER. 542. Injury to the Liver may be presumed from the depth and direction of the wound. A large quantity of black blood flows out, frequently mixed with bile; the patient feels a deep pain in the right hypochondrion, which extends to the right shoulder, and jaundice comes on. These symptoms are not, however, always present, and the diagnosis is often very difficult. The liver may be also torn in consequence of a severe shock, and effusion take place into the cavity of the belly. 543. Wounds of the Liver are always very dangerous; if they pene- trate deeply into the substance of the liver, the large vessels are torn, extravasation of blood and bile into the cavity of the belly occur, and they are to be considered as actually fatal wounds. If the wound be superflcial, or adhesion take place between it and the peritoneum, it may perhaps heal; extravasation, inflammation and suppuration may, llowe^ e^, cause death. [Astley Cooper says he has “ seen deep stabs with a pen-kuife in the situation of t^ ' liver recovered from, after great inflammation of the abdomen. The patient was bled . generally and by leeches, and fomentations were employed.” (p. 224.) Ruptures of the liver are not very imfrequent results of falling on the belly from a > height upon some projecting substance. I have seen several of these cases. The last 1 ^ had under my care was a boy about fourteen years, who fell upon a post; he lived four days.—J. F. S.] 544. Besides the most strict antiphlogistic treatment, these wounds re- quire such position of the patient that everytliing can escape freely from