125 PAKALLEL EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD, dressings were removed, “ the wound found united, with tlie exception of here and there a point and a small pouch of pus at the most depending part of the flap,” which was punctured and the pus evacuated. Some of the pins were removed, and fresh straps applied. This the first case succeeded admirably, and the history of the other two which he has published, were nearly counterparts of it. After the incision had healed, the head was supported by “a stiff stock on which her chin rested, and this instrument also served to press the integument back, by which the natural excavation or depth of the neck, in front was readily effected.” With the view of determining the propriety of the operations, such as those reported by him. Mutter makes some very interesting and valuable observations on, “ 1st, the nature of the tissue to be divided or removed; 2ndly, the thickness or profundity of the cicatrix; 3rdly, its location; 4thly, its extent; 5thly, its age; and, 6thly, its peculiar deformity.”] When large burns scar, there not unfrequently arises abdominal disorder, and frequent watery evacuations, which must not be suppressed. Anweisuug, alle erfromen Glieder aus dem Grande zu heilen, auch dann noch, wenn sie seit mehreren Jahren erfroren sind, 2nd Edit. Pima, 1804. 8vo. Ottensee, J. C., iiber die griindliche Heilung der Frostbeuten, in von Siebold’s Chiron., vol. ii. p. 129. Thomson, John, M.D., Article—Frostbite; in his Lectures on Inflammation, p. G13. Dessioulins, Dela Gangrene par Congelation. Paris, 1815. Mornav, Sur la Gangrene des Extremites par Congelation. Strasbourg, 1816. Larrey, Memoire sur la Gangrene seche cause'e par le Froid, ou Gangrene de Congela- tion, in Mem. de Chirargie Milit., vol. iii. p. 60. 103. In Frost-bite, {Congelatio, Tint.; Erfrierungen, Germ.; Congela- tion, Fr.,) the severe and continued cold produces numbness of organic parts, so that sensation and motion are diminished, and, if its influence be continued, all sensation and motion are lost, the pulsation of the arteries ce^^, and death ensues, in consequence of which the part is shrivelled and dried (1). If the whole body be subjected to such influence, the skin Le. III.—OF FROSTBITE,