128 CASES OF The entire soles of both feet, and the front of both as far as the tarso-metatarsal joints, were completely mortified. A line of healthy granulations divided the living from the dead parts in both feet nearly alike; in both, commencing from the metatarsal bone of the great toe, it crossed the bases of the other metatarsal bones to the outer edge of the foot, along which it stretched backwards beneath the outer ankle, around the heel inwards, and thence forward to the base of the great metatarsal bone. The slouglis were very offensive, and he complained of great pain and want of sleep. Pulse 90, feeble ; ap- petite good ; bowels confined; tongue moist and slightly furred. R ammon. curb. gr.v. conf. aroviat. 9j. tinct. opii. mist, camph. _^ss. Gtis. He is to have meat, with half-a-pint of porter ; sago, with a glass of port wme daily. The feet are to be wrapped in rags steeped in lot. calc, chlor., and a poultice to be applied over. Dec. 16. Has had a restless night; has a quick full pulse, head-ache, and a furred tongue, probably from repletion, he having been allowed to take meat, porter, sago, and wine at once, and his bowels being unmoved. The meat was, therefore, ordered to be discontinued; and a dose of mist. senn. comp, to be taken immediately, and repeated three hours after, if necessary. Dec. 19. Has been relieved by the clearance of his bowels, and is better ; but he com- plains still of want of rest. Omitt. mist. Rj opii. gr.j. t. d. Dec. 22. Still complains of great pain, but the separation is proceeding rapidly, and the dead parts seem held only by two or three of the metatarsal bones. Dec. 26. To hasten the cure, it was thought advisable to remove the right foot, which having separated at the tarso-metatarsal joint of the great and little toes, the three middle metatarsal bones were sawn through about half-an-inch from their base, follow- ing the line of demarcation. The knife was carried along the sole of the foot, dividing two tendons, to the heel-bone, the tuberosity of which was divided by ulcerative absorp- tion ; and, with a few slight touches of the knife, the whole of the mortified parts were removed. A slight arterial bleeding occurred at the heel, but was soon arrested by pres- sure. A poultice applied. R ammon. curb, gr.viij. conf. aromat. 3ss. mist, camph. 5jss. Gtis. op. gr.j. sexta quaque hora. Dec. 28. The left foot removed nearly as the right, but the three inner metatarsal bones, and the tuberosity of the heel-bone required sawing through. Jan. 25, 1830. Continues impi'oving in health ; cicatrization goes on slowly. Omitt. mist. R opii. gr.j. quin, sulpli. gr.ij. ext. gent. comp, griij. ter in die, a pint of porter daily. Feb. 8. Cicatrization in the left foot has proceeded rapidly, the stump having nearly skinned over; but, on the right foot it is tardy, and the exposed part of tihe heel is about to exfoliate. Feb. 28. The exfoliated bone was removed. April 3. The left stump is healed. The right has varied a little, according to the state of his health; but to-day three dark spots, corresponding to the points of the sawn- off metatarsal bones, have appeared. By the beginning of October, A very indolent ulcer occupied the plantar surface of the remaining part of the foot; and, showing no disposition to heal, amputation is talked of. Superficial in- dolent ulceration of the extreme part of the left stump had taken pkce, but seems now disposed to improve. Dec. 10. The right leg was amputated, by the circular incision, below the knee, and three ligatures applied. Dec. 14. Stump first dressed; going on well. Jan. 2, 1831. The wound nearly healed, but the ligatures have not come away. They separated, however, on Jan. 4, One; on 10th, one; and on 13th, the last came off. March 30. The ulceration on the left foot, which, at the time of the amputation, was only as large as sixpence, circular, and surrounded by a hardened edge, has recently spread over the whole sole, without any obvious local or constitutional cause. .Tune 1. The ulcer healing, but not reduced to its first size. Amputation was proposed, but declined. Case 2.—T. B., aged thirty years, a tanner, was admitted Feb. 3, 1845. He has been accustomed to live freely, and taken largely of beer, with the addition of spirits occasionally; but has enjoyed good health till within the last three months, in which he has head-ache, aud been under the care of tlie out-patient physician, by whom he has been cupped on the neck and purged freely, but without benefit. On the 24th of last month he was engaged, under cover, during a cold day laying out fresh hides till dinner-time, an occupation which kept his hands continually cold and wet. His dinner did not occupy him ten minutes; and his hands during that time