609 TREATMENT. (< radiiated compresses on both sides, and fixing them with bandages, (.Toug.) MouLtN s ,( erineal forceps (a), or the introduction of different bodies into the vagina for the pur- . ose of removing and absorbing all fluids, are extremely uncertain. ,, t ^ 1 r(l) Duparcque does not agree with drawing up the thighs. He says :— I think it •i etter to leave the thighs completely extended, a position, in which the buttocks being lore close together, at the same time ‘diminishes the perineal space, (p. ii .so thinks other means more effective in producing compression may be had recourse i! ), and mentions a case in which he “ introduced into the.vagina a large flattened guin .lUStic pessary, having a large central aperture, into which he fixed the funnel-shaped :i ctremity of a large elastic tube. The pessary pretty exactly fitting the vagina pre- S anted the lochial discharge filtering between it and the sides of the canal, and con^ iquently from getting between the lips of the tear. As the instrument reached above ^ te top of the wound, it could not prevent the meeting of its edges; besides, the com- % session which it exercised on the rectum contributed to keep up the constipation he ■^jesired.” In addition to this he placed a long cotton cylinder along each side of the 1 irn vulva and perineum, confined them by a double-tailed T bandage, the tails of li ihich, continued between the trochanters, and ischial tuberosities, had their inner edges h rought together by sewing. The case did well.] 742. Small tears of the perineum., cured as. already mentioned, are ac- sq ompanied with no further inconvenience than with tlie disagreeableness pj r a great width of the vagina. Larger tears cause besides the usual Tl .ilaxation of the vagina, protrusion of its front or hind wall, also dropping j id prolapse of the womb; the ability of retaining the stools is not prejudiced, but wind frequently escapes, and in diarrhoea the needs are iierj' pressing. As the woman is generally alarmed at her condition, such jises rarely become the object of definite treatment. The changes of n le external generative organs thereby produced, are, however, of such ^ ind, that all simple tears of the perineum should be treated with g le greatest care. In the old tears which have extended into tlie vent, ■i le impossibility of retaining the stools continues; at least, in that case the ■( itus and soft motions pass away unexpectedly on the slightest excitement. [“ Slight cases (of tom perineurn) will often,” says Dr. Chtjhchill (6), “heal without disistance. Even when the rent is more extensive, a cure may be effected without # rther interference than great cleanliness, keeping the patient in one position, so as to -eserve the edges of the wound in contact, and constipating the bowels after free li, irgation.” (p. 409.) My friend Dr. Waller informs me that most of the cases of i\ m perineum which have come within his knowledge, have done well without any it leration: and that even after the most severe tears, as when the m. sphincter ani is torn g'rough and both rectum and vagina are laid into one, he has known instances of re- p very with capability of retaining the motions, and with the simple inconvenience of U e patient being compelled to hasten quickly to the water-closet, immediately on feel- V g the slightest disposition to go to stool, as when the motions approached the vent they I luld not be restrained from voidance. How under such circumstances the stools are ) lained may perhaps be explained by Dr. Burns’s observation (c), that “ it sometimes T ippens that the torn extremity of the rectum or the anterior parts containing a frag- ■a ent of the sphincter or a portion of the internal sphincter, as it has been called, forms 1 kind of flat valve, which rests on the posterior surface at the coccyx, so that the orifice !j iw resembles a slit, and the faeces, unless very liquid, remain in the hollow of the sacrum ojid do not pass through the valvular orifice till an effort be made to expel.” (p. (i8.) I The scarring of the lips of the tom perineum Duparcque describes as taking place 4in two directions; at first in its thickness, so that the skin of the perineum and the 3 aeons membrane of the vagina approach and run into each other, except where the '11 rineal partition is very thick and there an intermediate scar is produced, having the a. aracters of mucous membrane. The scarring occurs also at the same time in the ■9 Jgitudinal dirertion of the lips of the wound; this shortening is only effected at the ■j pense of the tissues corresponding to the angles. In the case of tearings of the wrcala and perineum, the lahia which alone can readily stretch, are then drawn back ■»|' this mode of scarring; thus we may be assured that in women who have had the (n) v. Fbokiep’s Notizen, vol. xxiii. p. 26. diseases incident to (c) Principles of Midwifery, &c, 6th Edit. Lon- '/|!|fnancy and Childbed. Dublin, I&IO. 8vo. don, 1824. 8vo. Jl VOL. I. 2 It