323 UNITING BANDAGES. even take place of completely separated pieces of bone hanging in tlie flaps of the soft parts. The proper adjustment of the bony fragment is, how- ever, very difficult in these cases, especially if the fla,ps of the wound be swollen. Hence the advice given by many, that the pieces of bone should be cut out from the flaps, and the latter properly arranged. The form and extent of the wound give no definite contra-indication to its union. If the bleeding be slight, an accurate approximation of the edges of the wound will stanch it; but, if the bleeding be considerable, it must first be stanched, and upon the mode in which this is effected depends Avhether union will take place. The presence of foreign bodies in the wound, which merely act mecha- nically, contra-indicates union only so long as they remain there. The existence of deleterious matter in the wound contra-indicates it altogether. When the secretion of a fluid takes place from the bottom of a wound, the retention of which would excite dangerous symptoms, union is contra- indicated, unless such retention may be made use of as a means towards effecting a cure. 309. A wound to be united must be properly cleansed, the blood-clot removed from it, and then such apposition of the wounded edges made as shall bring similar structures into contact. The means to be employed for this purpose are, the proper position of parts, uniting bandages, sticking plaster, and sutures. In most cases, union is effected by several of these methods. [“ It is with a view to this principle of union (by the first intention)” says John Hunter, “ that it has been recommended to'bring the sides (or lips) of wounds together; but as the natural elasticity of the parts makes them recede, it has been found necessary to employ art for that purpose. This necessity first suggested the practice of sewing wounds, and afterwards gave rise to various inventions in order to answer this end, such as bandages, sticking plasters, and ligatures. Among these, the bandage, commonly called the uniting bandage, is preferable to all the rest where it can be employed; but its application is very confined, from being only adapted to parts where roller can be used.” (p. 209.)] 310. The position of the wounded parts should always be such that the edges of the wound may be relaxed, and their retraction diminished. This is specially to be observed in transverse wounds of muscular parts. Such wounds on the extensile side of a limb require the straight, and, on the flexile side, the bent position. Longitudinal wounds usually need no par- ticular position, because in them retraction of the edges cannot be very great; in general, therefore, that position is chosen in which the parts are tretched. The position of the wounded part is only the preparation and 'd to union. 311. Uniting Bandages, {Fascice unientes,^^!.', Vereinigende Bin- ~, Germ.; Moyens unissans, Fr.,) so called in opposition to those which merely serve to keep dressings together, are such as produce and maintain the immediate apposition of the edges of wounds. Their application is very different according to the form, direction, and locality of the wound. In ransverse wounds of the extremities, two long strips of linen, of corre- ■ponding breadth with the wound, are required. One of these is to be livided to its middle into as many heads as its breadth contains inches; the ther piece is to have a corresponding number of slits made in its middle. I hese two pieces are to be placed on the limb above and below the wound ind fastened with the spiral bandage. The heads of one strip are next to >e passed through the corresponding number of slits in the other, drawn in ’ y2