INTERNAL TREATMENT OF BURNS. 120 [The internal treatment of scalds and burns is too often overlooked, or little thought of, till it he too late, though it is a very important item in the restorative proceeding. If, soon after the accident, as commonly happens, the patient be attacked with shivering, which is severe in proportion to the extent of the part injured, some stimulant must be given internally, and I think a little hot brandy and water, even to children, is pre- ferable to phvsic. It must be of course given with discretion: for a young child a teaspoonful of brandy mixed with seven or eight of hot water, and then a teaspoonful or two of the mixture given every quarter of an hour till the shivering subsides; for an adult half a glass or a glass of brandy to two of hot water may be given imme- diately, and repeated twice or thrice at intervals of a quarter of an hour, as may be needed. The patient should be quickly put to bed, covered with blankets, and warm bottles or hot bricks wrapped in tiannel applied to the feet, for the purpose of re-ex- citing warmth. It is matter of dispute among surgeons, as to the propriety of admistering opiates or other sedatives, an objection being made that the action of the opium interferes with the symptoms, so that it is impossible to determine whether the brain be affected by the irritation of the injury or by the action of the opium. I do not think this is matter of much consequence; but I am quite certain that soothing the patient’s sufferings and dulling his nervous irritability, are most important indicaiions in the constitutional treatment. Therefore I invariably prescribe laudanum for au adult or syrup of poppies for a child, if there be any disposition to restlessness; and, if it continue, the opiate is repeated a few hours after. The advantage derived from sleep, even for a short period, is very great, and cannot be too strongly recommended, as during that time the sting- ing of the burn diminishes, and the patient suffers less. If sleep at night be deficient or much disturbed, I think it better to give laudanum in sufficient quantity to procure it; in less quantity it irritates and is hurtful, and this may be continued for some time, as may be found necessary. In severe burns and scalds sickness and vomiting very frequently occur after the accident, and require to be checked by brandy and laudanum ; but when they continue it is to be considered a very unfavourable symptom. Till suppuration is set up, which usually is established in forty or fifty hours, the patient suffers more or less from febrile excitement; cooling drinks and saline medicine in a state of effervescence may then be given, and light farinaceous food if the patient be disposed to take it, which, however, is generally not the case. But immediately suppuration, or the separation of sloughs commences, the constitution must be supported proportionally to their degree; easily digestible animal food is then to be taken, and beer, porter, wine, or brandy, in proportion to the patient’s age, habits, the degree of suppuration and extent of the slough must be used. Care, however, must be taken that the patient be not overloaded with support, which is indicated by quickened pulse, heat of skin, restlessness, and flushing of the countenance. When such occurs, this treatment must be suspended, and it not unfrequentl} happens that under this excite- ment the suppuration is suspended, and effusion of water on the brain, indicated by drowsiness and stupor or irritation of the mucous membrane of the bowels, and watery purging set in, which are very dangerous, and frequently destroy the patient. If suffi- cient support be not given, typhoid symptoms come on, and the patient rapidly sinks from that cause.—J. F. S.] 102. In all burns in which there is suppuration, care must be taken, especially during cicatrization, that no unsightly scar be produced; the parts must be kept in their natural place, and the contact of neighbouring parts, as the fingers and toes, be prevented by layers of linen or charpie smeared with salve. [A most important circumstance in reference to burns and scalds is the character of the scar, in those cases where the skin has been extensively destroyed, in consequence of not merely the uncontrollable disposition of the granulations to contract during the pro- gress of cicatrization, but also of the contractile habit of the scar itself, long after the wound has healed, when it is presumed that no further attention to the case is requisite. And even though every precaution has been taken to guard against the effects of this con- tractility, yet very often do the most deplorable results ensue, not only as regards per- sonal appearance, but also in relation to diminution and restriction of the motion of the limbs. “ These contractions are,” as Henry Earle (a) observes, “ a source of blame to surgeonsbut I cannot agree with him that even “ in some instances, perhaps, such re- proaches are merited, as much may be done to prevent them by proper and strict attention (a) On Contractions after Burns or extensive Ulcerations; in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. v.