287 DIVISION OF WOUNDS. 1 et jiiquuns^ Fr.) when the division is made by sliarp, cutting', or penetrat- it ing instruments ; Contused or Lacerated Wou7uls {jjequetschte und geris- %-t sene lVunde?i, Germ. ; Plaies coiituses et dechirees^ Fr.) when the parts !•( are divided by blunt instruments, or when they have suffered severe tearing (t and stretching before giving way. [' Every division by cut or stab is accompanied ■with some contusion of the part; but the id finer the edge and point of tlie wounding instrument are, and the more they have acted \ by being drawn along, tlie less is the amount of contusion; therefore cut and thrust e wounds are at the same time contused, if the instrument producing them have not the t proper degree of thinness and sharpness. J [(1) German surgeons make a distinction of incised wounds which we do not com- a monly use. The Schnittwunde is made by drawing a cutting instrument along the I part, which is thus divided ; our ordinary expression, a cut, or the phrase, the part has 9 been cut, is equivalent to it. The term Hiebwunde implies a wound made by an axe or sabre struck into or through a part, and answers to our word, a chop, or the part has been chopped. The cut (Schnittwunde) implies the division of a part with the least possible injury. The chop (Hiebwunde) may, on the one hand, be effected with as little injury as the cut; but, on the other, it may be accompanied with slight bruising, but sufficient, strictly, to put it among the most simple kind of contused wounds.—J. F, S.] 269. According to the condition of the divided parts, wounds are dis- tinguished as simple and complicated. Simple wounds are those in which the parts suffer no other injury beyond their division, and require only the junction of the edges for their union. Complicated wounds are those in which there is something wrong in the wounded parts, or in the constitu- tion, which requires modifications of the treatment of simple wounds. The complications are very various, as depending on many accidental circum- stances ; viz., bruising, bad form of wound, bleeding, discharge, or effusion of various fluids, loss of substance, the presence of foreign bodies in the wound, which act either merely mechanically, or have a special deleterious influence on the whole organism, poisoned wounds. Wounds may, in their couise, be accompanied with active fever, nervous symptoms, and so on. 270. According to the various direction and depth of the division, they are distinguished into longitudinal, transverse, oblique, superficial, deep, penetrating, andfiapped wounds. According to the difference of the wounded parts, wounds are generally divided into those of the skin and cellular tissuej of the muscles, of the tendons, of the vessels, of the nerves, of the viscera contained in cavities, of the bones ; and, according to situation, womids of the head, neck, breast belly, limbs, and so on. 271. The symptoms of wounds are pain, bleeding, separation or gapino- of the edges of the wound, inflammation, fever, and nervous symptoms. The pain at first depends upon the injury of the nerves, and afterwards on inflammation. It varies according to the kind of division, and the sen- sibility of the part and person. The bleeding is more or less abundant according to the size and number of the divided vessels, and is always greater in cut than in bruised or torn wounds. The gaping of the edges of the wound at the very first depends on the entrance of the wounding instrument, but especially on the elasticity and contractility of the parts, and is greater the more the parts were stretched at the moment when the wound was made, or the more they were irritated during, or after, the wound. The division itself, and the admission of the air to the exposed parts ‘ ! excite a general reaction, and increased flow of h\ooA,—infia77imation,