438 SUPERFICIAL AND A case is related by Kenned? (a) of a man wounded on the right side of the thyroid cartilage by bullet, which, passing behind the m. sterna masloideus, was next day found lodging a little above the superior costa of the scapula, and when cut upon two bullets joined by a neck were removed. The wound healed kindly in five weeks. “Imme- diately upon the patient receiving the shot, his right arm, from a little below the neck to the finger-points, became pale, quite cold and benumbed.” Aromatic and spirituous fomentations were used, and the arm covered with bags. “ In about twelve hours after the arm recovered some heat; but the thumb of that hand was seized with violent pain, which kept him all night from sleep ; and the next day the pain was so unsupportable, that he was in danger of turning delirious, though his pulse was scarce quickened and he had no thirst or other sign of fever.” Blood was taken from the arm again, (he having been bled also on the day previous,) clysters thrown up, and anodyne fomenta- tions and poultices employed without relief. Some laudanum was given, which relieved the pain, but did not cause sleep, and the pain recurred next morning. The quantity of laudanum was therefore increased, and on the third night he had sleep ; and after- wards it was given also in the morning, but in smaller quantity. As the effect of the opium diminished its quantity increased, till in the course of six or seven months the opium amounted to 250 drops of laudanum. Two months after he had received the wound, not only his thumb was pained, but such another pain was felt, at the joint of the elbow, without either swelling or hardness in the pained parts, or in the parts between them, and the fore-arm remained free from pain.” At the end of seven months the pain began to abate, “ but as the pain became less uneasy the feebleness of the member in- creased ; and in twelve months the pain was gone, and the use of the arm entirely lost. About two years and a half after receiving this wound he went to Bath and used the waters for a season: when I saw him after that time at London, he told me he had recovered the full use and strength of his arm.” (p. 167-70.) IV.—OP WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Vebing, liber die eindringenden Brustwunden. Wien, 1801. 4to. Hekold, liber die Behandlung trefer Wunden der Brust. Kopenhagen, 1801. 8vo. Larrey, Memoires de Chhnirgie Militaire, vol. ii. p. 150; and in the Memoires de I’Academie Royale de Medecine. Paris, 1828. Vol. I. Rumebe, E., Dissertation sur les Plaies d’Armes k feu penetrantes dans la Poitrine. Paris, 1814. 4to. Hennen’s Principles of Military Surgery. 2d Edit. Mayer, C., Tractatus de Vulneribus Pectoris penetrantibus imprimis cum Hsemor- rhagia conjunctis. Heidleb., 1823. 4to. Heidelberger klinische Annalen, vol. i. part iii. p. 365. Reybard, J. H., Memoires sur le Traitement des Anus artificiels, des Plaies des Intes- tins, et des Plaies pendtrantes de Poitrine. Paris, 1827. 8vo. 477. Wounds of the Chest ( Vulnera Thoi'acis') are either superficial or may penetrate into the cavities of the chest. 478. Superficial Cut and Sabre Wounds require the same general treatment, and their union can always be produced by sticking plaster. Superficial Stabs (of which we satisfy ourselves by their direction, by the depth to which the injuring instrument has penetrated, and by exami- nation with the probe, after jdacing the patient in the same position he was at the moment of the injury, and by the absence of the symptoms to be described in penetrating wounds of the chest) are also to be treated, according to the general rules, although the more active inflammation, which usually occurs in these wounds, requires a stricter antiphlogistic treatment. But when extravasation of blood takes place in tlie cellular tissue, and compression is not sufficient to stanch the bleeding, or when in (o') Medical Essays and Observations, published by a Society in Edinburgh, vol. i. Edinburgh, 17j2. 12mo.