27G WHITE SWELLING. a bandage. Motion of the diseased joint is difficult, and increases tlie pain and sensa- tion of latigue. Tlie colour of the skin is unchanged, nor is there auy swelling, but the temperature is somewhat increased, and motion of the limb produces crepitation iu tho joint. The pain and sensation of weariness iucrea.se when the patieut warms iu lied, and destroys his sleep. After these symptoms have continued some weeks, and the girth of the joint has increased, the second slcuje sets in. The swelling of the joint is at first pale, free from pain, and most so where, at first, the pain was most severe ; it is soft, fungous, elastic, and somewhat hotter than the other parts. When pressed no pitting is produced, but merely a paleness on the skin. The swelling involves the greater part of the joint, and at last engages it completely; the skin appears shiny ; the pain becomes more severe ; the movement of the limb difficult and painful {a). On account of the pain the patient bends the knee, and in this continued position the tendons hecomc'S rigid, so that in the end both flexion and extension become impossible. The pain and tension are specially situated in the knee-cap; therefore, in motion of the limb, the patient fixes it with his hands. The veins glimmer through the shining skin, the whole of which is bluish and reddish. If the joint swell, the limb shrivels below it, so that at last it seems to consist only of skin and bone, and the skin is exceedingly loose. In the third stage some spots of skin become redder and projecting, the veins show more distinctly through, the skin here becomes thinner and softer, aud fluctuation beneath is felt; the wasted lower part of the limb becomes oedematous, and every part discharges, when opened by nature or art, a bloody, puriform, ichorous fluid. If the probe be introduced, the bone is felt carious, or deprived of periosteum, or the tendons and ligaments, and may be moved in all directions. And now, under continued suppuration of the joint, the well-known general symptoms occur with fatal result. In the acute form a rheumatic fever not un- frequently precedes the swelling, with wandering pain in all the joints, and, after a day or two, the pain and swelling fixes very decidedly in one joint, forming the commence- ment of Tumor albus. The joint is red, swollen, aud extremely painful, so that it cannot bear the least touch or movement; the skin is shining and burning ; pressure diminishes the redness, but leaves no pit; fluctuation is sometimes felt, which depends on much synovia. The pain becomes especially severe when the person is warm in l)cd. The swelling occupies the whole joint, and stretches to the neighbouring parts of the limb. After some days it acquires its .greatest extent, and is often quite extraordinary; but the circumference of the bone is unchanged, and the pain is not deep seated. When the fever ■ has continued some days, the fever diminishes, or entirely subsides; the swelling loses ; its rosy colour, does not diminish, but rather increases; is usually soft, pale, and flabby, , so that the finger when pressed on it causes a pit. The heat and paiu subside, and the • swelling now becomes chronic, as if from acute rheumatism; such is the so-called acute ■ rheumatic species of Tumor albus. The joints, rich in cellular tissue and aponeurotic parts, . and the articular parts are especially attacked by this disease, which, in its subsequent : course, becomes chronic. 1 Anatomy of Tumor albus.—In the first stage of the disease, the soft parts of the joint, .1 the cellular tissue which surrounds the tendons and ligaments are very full of blood,.. which is specially collected in the small vessels of the cellular tissue. The latter appeal# to be in large quantity ; at least, there is formed a yellowish white substance which co- -i agulates, resembles lymph mixed with jelly, and is in largest quantity near the tendons sj and ligaments. (At the knee-joint, it appears first on the lateral and posterior, then on the anterior, part; at the elbow, on tbe sides and behind; on the foot, at the sides of the ; ankle.) The deep parts of the joint seem little changed, only the periosteum and synovial membrane are redder, and have reddish dots and points; at some parts the synovial membrane is thicker, softer, and closely connected with the above-mentioned gelatinous J mass. In the second stage, the Tumor albus contains, in the cellular tissue aud around tbe S tendons, a fibrous, thick, tough substance, not unlike lard, iu which run white threads,Ml connecting the skin to the deep parts. The blood-vessels are less numerous than in tlie first stage ; but injection shows that every white thread is only a large vessel, which, :■ on account of the thinness of its walls, rather resembles a vein; the arteries also may distinguished, although, for the most part, they are obliterated. The lardaceous mass is ifl softer than the integument and tendons, which parts, altliough covered with tliis sub- ■ stance, are perfectly healthy; a proof that the Tumor albus is situated only in the cellulai :■ tissue surrounding it. In some parts of this substance, especially iu tbe nei^hbourhooc. ■ of large vessels, blackish-red spots are found, which contain a softer, cheesy, livid ni.atter ■ (n) Kust observes on this point: “The patient complains of the sinews being sliortenecl, wliich is explicable by the ligaments and tendons in the neighbourhood of the joint having tiieir motions interfered witli, and being compressed by an im mixleratedeposit in thecelluiartissuesurroundin; lhem.’’—linniibuch, p. 5j0.