K>l # •0‘- 'i * t at I# i SECONDARY SYPHILITIC SYMPTOMS. 647 happen” (p. 274.) From tliese observations it is quite clear that Hunter’s mind was 1‘uSS i.t. this subject, »nd observes If. however, it be .rue that after suspicious sexual connexion, the enlargements of tlie of the generative organs become rarely primarily affected, there aie, ^ stances in which it is impossible to find any suspicious antecedent or °^anL then we are forced to admit a primary bubo (bubo demblee.) When these enlargements are carefully examined without our being led into error by those which may resemble them, we find that they most commonly appear in the deep ganglions, and as trequenfty, those of the iliac/ossa, or at least in the sub-aponeurotic ones of the thigh; that . . 1 Un'XTa rltcrtncitmn tn even m their course is often chronic; that they are long indolent, and have little disposition to suppurate; but it is very remarkable, that when they do suppurate, the pus they pro- duce will not inoculate: never as yet have I found a bubo embracing all the positive signs of an immediate bubo which produced iiioculable pus. If to this important obser- vation be added, that after the exact researches which I have made, I have never found that immediate buboes, in tlie strict sense of the word, have been followed by general symptoms of pox, the importance of inoculation in this case will be evident. Hence he concludes, that “ a virulent bubo, or that from the absorption of the pus of chancre, is a symptom in every respect analogous to chancre as to its nature, and only^ differs in its seat; that virulent bubo is the only one which will inoculate; that the signs indi- cated by authors for distinguishing virulent bubo from the enlargements with which they are confounded, without exception, in the greater number of eases, serve only to establish a rational or probable diagnosis, and that inoculation alone can be consi- dered as the indisputable and pathognomic sign; and that if in a greater number of cases the precise diagnosis of a bubo were not absolutely necessary to direct the treatment and to form a prognosis of the coming chances to the patient, when there is question of a bubo being immediate, we should never neglect when suppuration has taken plaee, to examine it at every stage of its course, carefiil examination, close observation having proved that buboes which do not inoculate (when the experiments are properly made) are never followed by secondary symptoms, and that they also are not syphilitic; whilst from other causes which often escape us, and without needing the pox, may give rise to enlargements of the lymphatic system of one region of the body as well as another; and that it would therefore be absurd to conclude that a bubo is necessarily syphilitic because it had appeared a short time after connexion.” (p. 67-9 ; Fr. Edit., p. 148-51.)] 819. If the disease be general, it attacks especially either the skin, mucous membranes, or hones. The length of time from the origin of the local syphilitic symptoms to the outbreak of the general venereal dis- ease is different. Usually it occurs six weeks after the primary syphilitic affection ; a longer as well as a shorter space of time may, however, be observed. The attack of the masked syphilis (lues larvata) can only be properly applied to this period, when, with a seeming cure of the primi- tive syphilitic affection, up to the outbreak of the general disease, no de- cided symptoms are manifest. The appearance of the general syphilis is mostly accompanied with slight fever and with burning heat in the palms of the hands. [“ The venereal matter,” observes John Hunter, “ when taken into the constitution produces an irritation which is capable of being continued independent of a continuance of absorption; and the constitution has no power of relief; therefore a lues venerea continues to increase. This circumstance is perhaps one of the best distinguishing marks of the lues venerea; for in its ulcers and blotches, it is often imitated by other diseases which, not having this property, will therefore heal and break out again in some other part; diseases in which this happens show themselves not to be venereal • however, we are not to conclude because they do not heal of themselves, and give way only to mercury, that therefore they are venereal, although this circumstam^, joined to others, gives a strong presumption of their being such.” (p. 320.)] 820. An Injlarnmation in the Mucous Membrane of the Throat most commonly shows itself as a seeming catarrhal affection, with stoppage in the nose, difficulty in swallowing, hoarseness, snuffling speech, and tears in the eyes. On internal examination of the throat, the mucous membrane