C 496 ] Of Fractures of Bones. First Chapter.—OF FRACTURES OF BONES IN GENERAL. Petit, J. L., Traitd d.6s AIrIrcIirs dps Os. Nouv. Edit., par Xjouis. Paris 1742 8vo. 2 vols. ’ Pott, P., General Observations on Fractures and Dislocations; in his Surgical Works. Kirkland, Thomas, Observations on Mr. Pott’s General Remarks on Fractures 8vo. London, 1776. Bertrandi, A., Opere Anatomiche e Cerusiche, publicate e accresciente di Note e di Supplement! dai Chirurghi, G. A. Penchienati e Gio. Brugnone. 11 vols. 8vo Torino, 1786-98. Aitken, John, M.D., Essay on Fractures and Luxations. London, 1790. 8vo. Boettcher, J. F., Abhandlung von den Krankheiten der Knochen. Berlin, 1796. Three parts, with copper plates. Part I. Boyer, M. le Baron, Trait® des Maladies Chirurgicales et des Operations, etc. Third Edit. 11 vols. Paris, 1822-1828. Bernstein, Ueber Verrenkungen und Beinbriiche. Jena, 1819. 8vo. Cooper, Astley, A Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints. 4to, London, 1822. Richter, A. L., Theoretisch-praktisches Handbuch der Lehre von den Briichen und Verrenkungen der Knochen. With 40 folio plates. Berlin, 1828. 8vo. Miescher, F., De Inflammatione Ossium eorumque Anatome general!. Berolini, 1836. 4to. Hager, M., die Knochenbriiche, die Verrenkungen und die Verkriimmungen. Wien, 1836. Korzeniewsky, Jos., De Ossibus Fractis Tractatus. Vilnse, 1837. Meyer, F. G., Die Lehre von den Fracturen. Berlin, 1843. 573. A Breaking or Fracture of a Bone {Fractura Ossium, Lat. ; Knochenbruch, Beinbriich, Germ.; Fracture, Fr.) is the sudden solution of continuity of a bone, depending on external violence, or on the violent contraction of muscles. 574. In fractures of bones are distinguished, 1. Whether a bone be broken in one only or in several parts at once ; 2. Whether only one or both bones of a limb be broken ; 3. The direction of the fracture; i hence the transverse, {Fractura transversal longitudinal, {Fractura lon~ > gitudinalis,) oblique fracture, {Fractura obliqua,') according as the ends ■ of the bones correspond in a horizontal, vertical, or more or less oblique i direction. Longitudinal fractures occur simply with simultaneous split- i ting of the bone, or with a simultaneous transverse or oblique fracture; > without these they are very rare; still they have been observed in the thigh-bone (Gaedeke, Campaignac) and in the shin-bone (Werner, Cloquet) ; 4. Whether the fracture be combined with splintering of the bone, comminuted fracture {Fractura comrnmutiva); 5. Whether beside the fracture there be no other injury, simple fracture {Fractura simplex) ; or whether at the same time there be injury of the soft parts, either from the violence which caused the fracture, or by the ends of the broken bones, a compound fracture {Fractura co7nplicata.)