177 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. [The simple treatment recommended by Chelius is generally quite sufficient; mer- cury is never needed. “ When the glans can be uncovered and the inflammation is not excessive,” Kicorp says, the metliod he has “ found best succeed, is passing the pencil of nitrate of silver gently over the diseased surfaces, so as to cauterize them superficially, after which it is sxlfficient to put a bit of dry lint round the glans and draw he pre- puce over again. Lotions of lead wash or cold water are to be applied over. (p. 331; Fr. ed., p. 639.) This is very good practice, but I commonly use only a little black wash. —j. F. s!] [168*. Gonorrhcea of the nose sometimes occurs during gonorrhosa of the uretlira, or whilst there is an enlargement of the testicle from the same cause. The Schneiderian membrane is tender over its whole surface, but not painful; is of a deep red colour, but not ulcerated; and there is a free discharge similar to that of clap. This disease was first noticed by Benjamin Bell, and he mentions two cases of it: in the first, “ the discharge from the urethra lessened before the testes became inflamed, and, on this taking place from the nose, it ceased entirely.” It was treated with an astringent lotion and the insertion of sponge moistened in it up the nose, and cured in a few days. In the second case, “ the discharge took place during the continuance, and had existed many years, and, although it had frequently become less, it never disappeared entirely.” Various attempts at its cure were made without success, “ and, though no other symptom appeared, he was advised to undergo a course of mercury; but no ad- vantage ensued.” (pp. 29, 30.)—J. F. S.] 169. In the treatment of Gonorrhoea^ of which the ground is a gouty or herpetic disease, and so on, that given for the non-syphilitic gonorrhoea is suitable; but in these cases the inflammation is usually long-continued, even when the disease has run into a chronic form. Then especially must be employed purging, warm bathing, preparations of sulphur, antimony, and so on. V.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. 170. Inflammation of the Testicle {Inflammatio Testiculi, Orchitis, Hernia humoralis, Lat.; Hodenentzundung, Germ.) may be produced by different causes. [“ In some instances,” as observed by Benjamin Bell, and it might be added, specially during or after gonorrhoea, “ both testicles swell. They seldom, however, swell both at once ; but the swelling, on leaving one testicle, is very apt to go to the other; and when both have, in this manner, been affected, they sometimes swell alter- nately for a considerable time together. I have known this happen for the space of a year and upwards, where the patient, during the whole period, was never completelv free of the disease.” (p. 337.)] ^ First. It occurs most frequently in gonorrhoea, either with a very hio-h de^ee of inflammation, with dragging pains in the belly and pelvis if the patient move about much, and the testicles be unsupported ; in which case the inflammation extending to the testicles, first attacks the epididymis, and next the whole gland ; or it confines itself merely to the former (Epidi- dymitis;) or it may be produced when the inflammatory symptoms have declined, by any irritation of the testicle, violent exercise, for instance. on^« wh singularity of swelling of the testicle not coming the iS^fioS islr"* f the urethra is at its height; he thinks it happens when tne irntation IS going off, and sometimes even after it has entirely ceased, and when the patient conceives himself to be quite well.” (p. 60.)] ^ Second. It may be a symptom of general syphilis, the bladder, and many of the symptoms mentioned before, is only sympathetical, and N