XL—OF FRACTURE OF THE COLLAR-BONE. (^Fraciura Clavicula, Lat.; Bruch des SchluaaelbeineB, Germ.; Fracture de la Clavicule, Fr.) Brasdob, in M^moires de I’Acaddmie de Chirurgie, vol. v. Ever.s, Bemerkungcn iiber der Nutzen der BBASDOB’schen Binde zum Schliia sel- beinbruclie ; in Richter’s Chirurgischer Bibliothek, vol. v. p. 141. Brunninghausen, H. J., Ueber den Bruch des Schlusselbeines. Wurzburg, I791. Witli a copper-plate. Large 8vo. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgjcales, vol. i. part i. p. 63. Wardenburo’s Zusatz., p. 122. | Vebmandois, Remarques sur le Traitement de la Fracture de la Clavicule; in the J Journal Gdn^ral de Medecine, vol. xxi. 1804. % Boyer, Traite des Maladies -.Chirurgicales, et des Operations qui leur convienne*fc* vol. iii. S Wilhelm, Ph., Ueber den Bruch des Schlusselbeines und uber die verschiedenen^ Methoden, denselben zu heilen. With lithographic sketches. Wurzb., 1822. 8vo. Ribes ; in Memoires de la Socidte Medicale d’Emulation. Paris, vols. ix. iv. 636. Fracture of the Collar-bone occurs’-either between its sternal end ' and its connexion with the coracoid process, or between the latter and the •• scapular end. The former is the most common kind of this fracture, and V is generally consequent on violence which operates on the shoulder, elbow, or hand, whilst the arm is outstretched ; the latter kind is mostly produced i by direct violence upon the collar-bone, in which case it is always con- • nected with bruising of the soft parts. 637. In fracture hettoeen the sternal end of the collar-bone and its cm- - nexion with the coracoid process, the diagnosis is always easy. The patient t feels pain at the seat of fracture ; the motions of the arm are difficult, but ; little painful; the patient cannot bring his arm up to his head (though h this is possible some days after when the pain has passed by) ; the shoulder r is lower and more inwards ; the arfia rolls inwards ; the patient supports « the elbow with the other hand; distinct displacement of the broken ends i.- is felt ; the inner end rises upwards and forwards; the outer drops below » it and is directed downwards. The shoulder may be easily returned to > its natural height, when the displacement of the broken ends ceases, but • returns when the shoulder is again left alone. Distinct crepitation is - commonly observed. In a transverse fracture, which I have frequently observed in children, there was i- no separation of the fractured ends. Only in the rare case of an oblique fracture frMtt ' behind and beneath, forwards and upwards, is the hinder end of the fracture above the > front end, and lies with its whole under surface upon the upper part of the front piece. 638. Fracture of the collar-bone is generally of no great importance, 1 and the symptoms are dangerous only when bruising or wounding of the i soft parts, or of the vessels and nerves lying beneath the collar-bone i accompany it. Setting of this fracture is easy ; yet only in very rare cases is the cure -1 possible without any deformity, but if this be not great, it does not at all | restrict the motions of the arm. In considerable deformity, wlien the broken ends unite at an acute angle, the elevation of the arm is impossible, the m. deltoides wastes, the blade-bone projects strongly, and the collar- bone is materially curved. In a remaining artificial joint, the use of tlie limb was not destroyed, (Gerdy, Velpeau,) but imperfect. 639. To set the collar-bone, the upper end of the upper arm should be laid hold of on the inside, and pressed outwards, and somewhat backwards.