VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 754 stemmed sliglitly curved sliarp hook, and brought into a suitable position a line is then to be drawn with the point of a fine pointed scalpel aroutf.| the fistulous opening, and from three to four lin&s distant everywhei<4 from it. The portion of the mucous membrane of the vagina between the line and the fistulous opening is tlien to be seized with the hoo^ somewhat raised, and gradually removed about the whole extent of tlL| opening as thinly as possible, to the breadth of three or four lines, b t a saw-like motion of the scalpel, and the bleeding which ensues is to U checked by the injection of cold water. By Dieffenbach, the patient is put in the same position as in cuttirrt for the stone, a silver catheter is introduced into the bladder and held by a j assistant, and a two-armed speculum vagince passed, in order to see tbl fistula distinctly. If the fistula be not high up, one of its edges may I ( seized after another, with a hook, or with a pair of hooke<I forceps, geiith drawn down, and removed with a proper bistoury or pair of scissors. ; the fistula be high up, Dieffenbach, after introducing Ricoud’s culum, passes one pair of hooked forceps into the wall of the vagincm above the fistula, and a second pair of hooked forceps beneath it; tlrj speculum is then removed, and the vagina gently drawn with doublm hooks, if there be considerable tension, by an assistant, to one side, till tlrt edges of the fistula are apparent between the nymphee. About the edgy little hooks are to be introduced, and both double hooks and one pair r i forceps removed ; the other pair is held by an assistant, and the little hook ^ by another person. A small scalpel is now thrust through the mucoi j> membrane of the vagina and bladder, distant a line from the fiistulou4 aperture, and a strip, a line broad, is to be removed around the openinji and the hooks again introduced into the bleeding edges. The edge c the bladder is now to be taken hold of with a fine pair of hooked forcepr;; and a portion, two lines wide, removed with the knife, so that the wounde.'< surface, which was only one line wide, is now four lines. In small fan tulas, where the separation of the two walls is not possible, a funnel-lilc; piece should be removed. Hobert (a) refreshed the edges by touching with lunar caustic. Peculiar instruments for refreshing the edges (Naegele’s bistoury with a coveret edge, Lallemand’s hook-shaped knife , and so on) are unsuitable and unnecessary. 977. For uniting the refreshed edges, the twisted, the glover’s, the inter, rupted and the running stitch have been proposed, and with differea- modifications employed ; the twisted and the interrupted are most con ■ venient. The latter is easier of application ; soft threads only and not hai»/ metallic threads being employed, the threads are easily withdrawn ; onth other hand the twisted suture renders the union much closer and does no allow the urine to percolate so easily ; therefore Wutzer prefers it, in ; quiet intelligent patient, for a narrow vagina and soft fistulous edges. Ii using the twisted suture, the insect-needles should be fresh sharpened anc pointed, just before the operation, but they must not be too fine. Tli needle in the needle-holder should be introduced at such an angle as suit generally the position of the fistula; its point should not project furthe v than necessary. It may be requisite, in order that the movements of tk' needle be not prevented, to grip it with the needle-holder close to I head. The tip of the forefinger of the left hand is to be placed ne^ | the edge of the fistula, and so directed that the entrance of the need!* | (a) London Medical Journal, 1825, Dec. p. 439.