693 EXFOLIATION. np IS oones ivinjr bone, Miescher declares himself a supporter of the latter opinion. I have xlrendv obser4d,” says he^ “ that at the same time the groove began to form around •lie the ^hin idge of the bent plate vras somewhat bent down ^he Jnst >■ granulations and that it wasted away m minute scales. I was able to follow this out, iMvere, step by step, by observation in necroses produced by baring the surface of oones in mbbhs, Lts,Ld^n the calf, in which throughout the wMe proc^ he wound remained dry; the little scales, separated in the ctus ° S P 3xtemal wound, could be most distinctly demonstrated; which crust having been cau- dously removed, tlie very thin edge of the dead plate appeared M itwere coiro e , an i lancet being introduced beneath it, very readily fell into minute particles, pma aarticles, tlierefore, having separated, it seems, like scales, the wecrottc plate gradually liminished to sometimes more than half its size; nor was it doubtful, that in the cases Mentioned by Ruysch, La Peyronie, and Rouhadlt, the dead piece of bone thus ly degrees entirely disappeared. This e:^/ia<iow in particles might be moredim- lult to demonstrate in those cases in which the wound is constantly moist with pus and poultices, and the thin plate is as yet perhaps dead ; but, when the other phenomena do iot at all differ, and absorption by a solid lifeless body seems opposed to the very laws if physiology, and when there is no fluid, by the solvent power of which it can happen Jiat the dissolved dead bone should be absorbed,—we cannot, even in these cases, though more doubtful, but think that the exfoliation by particles, or insensible exfoliation is per- formed. In addition to this, the acute Tenon says, that in the experiments he per- formed on dogs, he always observed, that the granulations which sprung up frona the jared surface of the bone, as soon as they made their appearance, were covered with a minute crust, which might justly be considered as bony scales separated and thrown off ay the granulations. Every support is, therefore, torn away from the opinion of :hose who, in the separation of necrosis by absorption, consider that something is taken iway even from the dead bone; and we can now certainly contend, that the necrosis is separated by absorption occurring in the living parts alone; which is of no little moment for rightly understanding the reparation of bones destroyed by necrosis.” j). 207-8.) I cannot agree with Miescheb that absorption takes place only in the living parts during the process of separating a sequester. Hunter’s opinion is certainly correct, that nature sometimes finds it necessary to the completion of her process,” that there should be some absorption of the dead bone and that “ it generally takes place when :he separation is slow, and the granulating process is quick.” I think that absorption if botii dead and living part of the bone occurs most commonly in all external exfolia- dons; but of its almost invariable occurrence in exfoliations of the bones of the head irhere can be no dispute; for not merely is the under surface of the exfoliated piece hollowed in correspondence with the granulations beneath, but it rarely happens that ;here are not two or three regular holes eaten completely through both tables of the Done, with fungous growths from the dura mater protruding in the latter case, or the granulations alone in the former.—j. F. s. The following is the account given by Troja of the incipient production of new bone seven days after the shell of the shank-bone of a pigeon had been killed by sawing the 3one through and breaking up its medullary structure with a probe. “ Having killed die pigeon on the seventh day, I was astonished, on removing the muscles, to observe she very great thickness of the shank-bone, which in comparison with the opposite healthy bone was enormously thickened. On examination I found fresh bone^ newly iroduced around the shank-bone. On separating the periosteum, which was every ivhere a little swollen, except at the lower end, where it was swelled up with a dense Sir semi-cartilaginous jelly, blood-vessels were evidently perceived entering into the tiubstance of the new bone. When I divided this bone lengthways into two parts, the hew bone, now divided, dropped, almost of its own accord, into two equal portions, from fxith sides of the old shank-bone. Surprised at the speedy separation of the new from che old bone, I endeavoured to ascertain the cause. Therefore carefully viewing the internal surface, I perceived a certain softer substance, and by bringing the point of my mife to the side of the bone, the membrane seemed to me to be lifted up. Struck with the •lovelty, I gave my attention to it; I inverted a true, entire, very juicy and thickish mem- orane. Whilst this was separated from the bone, which was very easily done, an almost nfinite number of very delicate membranous threads were seen to draw out, which Proceeding from the little apertures spread over the inner surface of the bone, were s n^rted into the membrane itself. Its ground colour was white, and transparent when j/aised against the light, but it was tinged and almost covered with very numerous red p treaks, or, if you please, with an almost infinite number of spots collected together, but