153 DEEP ABSCESS OF THE BREAST. scrofula, gout, syphilis, and so on. In many cases the inflammation sets in without any manifest cause, and the ground of the irritation may be merely tlie sympathetic relation of the breast to the womb, which dis- covers itself especially at the period of decrepitude, and in unfruitful women, in whom the functions of tlie womb have never gone on regularly. 151. The treatment of such inflammation must be guided by the pre- vious mischief. Kepeated application of leeches, infriction of mercurial ointment, warm covering of the breast, and internal remedies suited to the general dyscracy, are here required, although they can rarely prevent the production of hardening. When this takes place, it must be treated after the general rules. 152. In rare cases, either during suckling or not, deep-seated abscesses form in tlie breast gland or between it and the pectoral muscles, the for- mation of which is connected with a deep-seated pain, at first shifting, burning, tearing, with a considerable colourless swelling of the whole breast, and pain on moving the arm, and it continues for a long time before any external fluctuation can be perceived. The pus frequently makes its way out at several points, and the breast gland is hard and swollen. If these suppurating^ passages be opened, they present a soft reddish fungus. When fluctuation in such abscesses can be ascertained they must be opened early. If fistulous passages have formed, they must be laid open throughout their whole length, or, in order to prevent deformity of the breast, and interference with its function, (according' to AXGENBECK, the ligature should be introduced,) softening poultices and rubbing with mercurial ointment should be employed. If a part of the bre^t be so distended by these passages that, after opening them, it seems to hang as it were by a neck, it should be entirely removed; the cure soon follows. The passage to suppuration may perhaps be prevented by the early employment of diaphoretics, by emetics, by dry warmth, and by the application of derivative blisters m the very neighbourhood of the breast. Hey, William, Surgical Observations. Richter’s, Medicinische und chirurgische Bemerkungen, vol. i. p. 50. ANGENBECK, Nosologie und Therapie der chirurgischen Krankheiten, vol ii p 054 wi{; u “Under chronic inflammation” says Cooper ^ which CmLius alludes, ■which, from the length of time it is formin/r from sometimes produced. Jit TJX i" scirrhus that I may be held excused ^ “ ordinary history and course of ^ ^oman, admitted “°“‘hs afteV, whilst suckL^rSeiveTanoThel^'tsh^ the right breast, and secretion continued, and the milk flowed o^t tfll^bl not take it; but the the breast began to swell, and sL firlt no^rcp^l i ^ ^ After weanin? and fomentations. These diminished the nencrl^i^ applied leechfs lump, which, on the contrary continued iifer swelling, but without dispersimr the ««d al the time of her «dmSirS2 ''i* ™?r?ing | and „ u,e outer side of the nippi; *gg. situated jasf bS nipple somewhat retracted. “ slightly adherent, very hard, and the