171 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA IN WOMEN. fincer for n qunrter of «n hour or twenty minutes, which is eenerally soecessful. IION- ™ s. s StVeh bleedings, he has « seen b.lsm «f «.p;'taE.vc« '“f and suDDOses that “all the turpentines would be useful, (p. 95.) If, as Ricord states, Su' hThave not observed it, “ frequently the haimorrhage return the first time the S is passed; then, however objectionable it is to place a foreign substance in the in- flamed uVethra, we must introduce a bougie, which by compressing the vessels stays the XsLn of blood Sometimes additional circular external compression is required; but S caution must be used in its application. Generally this bougie may be removed after twenty-four hours; but, when the hemorrhage has been great, and the instrument does not excite much pain, it is advisable to leave it a day or two longer. If the bougie have been removed too soon, and the hemorrhage reappear, it must be reapplied, it it be not merely a sangiiinolent discharge.” (p. 339 ; Fr. edit., p. 717.)] 163. If the pain subside and the discharge diminish, a suitable treatment, with a'sli°-htly improved diet, with the avoidance, however, of all heating things usually sutfices for the perfect cure. The frequent use of diluted fluids must be forbidden, lest by their too great relaxing power they might give rise to gleet. This must be especially attended to in otherwise flabby and scrofulous persons. For such cases we may recommend the use of juniper rob, dulcamara, gum guaiacum, decoction of woods and the like. If for a long time there remain a sparing discharge of serous fluid, slightly astringent injections of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, sub- limate and so on, with opium, may be used to prevent the discharge becom- ing chronic. 164. In those cases in which a syphilitic form of gonorrhoea is sus- pected, after the inflammation is diminished or removed, mercury must be used for some time, or, together with a strengthening and tranquillizing diet, the use of decoction of woods must be persisted in, for the purpose of pre- venting the origin of general syphilis. [It having been already shown that gonorrhoea and syphilis are distinct diseases, and do not generate each other, the treatment just mentioned is superfluous.—J. F. S.] 165. The treatment of gonorrhoea in women is precisely the same as that in men; but so strict an antiphlogistic management is not requisite; in general mild injections or steaming is sufficient to diminish the inflam- mation. Astringent injections are to be used and made stronger, if the discharge be inclined to become chronic. The excoriated parts are to be covered with charpie spread with citrine or red precipitate ointment. The internal use of mercury, or the use of decoctions of wood, with strict atten- tion to diet is then particularly necessary. [I have never known it necessary, on account of the acuteness of gonorrhoeal symptoms in women, to apply leeches, as recommended by Ricord ; but, commonly, in all stages, unless there be inflammation and swelling of the external parts, employ injections of nitrate of silver, ten grains to an ounce of water once a-day; taking care that the vagina being well washed out, none of the injection should be left behind. This practice is fully confirmed by Ricord’s experience. He says:—“Sometimes acute gonorrhoea in women, whether complicated or not, resists the most judicious soothing treatment, and is aggravated by the use of mercurials. In some of these cases, in which the red and turgid mucous membranes afford a copious purulent discharge, attended with acute pain, which neither rest, depletion, emollients, nor narcotics can assuaee. I have obtained astonishing results from the use of nitrate of silver A superficial cauterization with solid nitrate of silver, or a solution of it, applied by means of lint, has favourably modified the inflamed surfaces, and produced a solution of the dis- ease. After the u^ of the cautery, a plug of dry lint must be employed to prevent the contact of the walls of the vagina.” (p. 324 ; Fr. edit. p. 683.) ^ ^ 1 these modes of treatment I do not know any better. Iniections of acetate of lead, of delation of tormentilla, of oak or elm bark and alum; a\e commlfy jfcom- mended, but I do not consider them very efficient. ^ It must be borne in mind, in regard to stimulating injections, that some constitutions