STRUCTURE OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. C2') Cheltos’s direction to keep the knee-joint straight, as the most convenient P^Rion, when there is a probability of stiffness resulting from the disease with which it is apcted, is not at all satwfactory, nor should it be followed, as, thus fixed, it causes considerable halting in the gait, and, preventing the play of the ankle-joint, puts the patient in nearly the same condition as if he wore a wooden leg. And also when he si^ts do'^n, the lirab is obliged to thrust out before him, very inconveniently both to himself and others. I he knee should, indeed, from the first of the treatment, be half bent and supported beneath by pillows, as the tendons passing over the joint, and the tendinous expansions connected with its capsule are thereby relaxed; and, if permanent stiffness take place,^ the bent position is most convenient for sitting; and, in walking, the play of the ankle-joint is so increased that the halting is comparatively trifling, and the patient’s movements much more free than if straight. The bent position is obviously best for persons accustomed to ride on horseback. For these reasons, therefore, the bent is preferable to the straight position of the knee and leg.—J. F. S.] B.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 209. Injlamniation of the Synovial Membrane (Injlammatio Mem brance Synavialis, Lat.; Entziindung der Synovialhaut^ Germ.; Inflammation de la Membrane Synoviale, Fr.) may arise either as a primary disease, or may have extended from other tissues. The synovial membrane is frequently attacked with inflammation on account of its vital relations ; it lias gene- rally a tedious course, and the functions of the joint are not at the onset entirely destroyed. [The importance of every circumstance connected with diseases of joints, and the dif- : ference of opinion in regard to the special structure in which one or other of them I commences, and by which they are sustained, is siifficient warrant for giving some ac- 1 count of their natural structure and condition. And for this reason I shall here notice j The Structure of Synovial Membrane.—The first satisfactory mention of it is that of WnxiAsi Hunter (a); a careful perusal of which will show that very little has been really added by modern writers to his observations. “We are told by anatomists,” says this able teacher (6),“that cartilages are co- vered with a membrane named perichondrium. If they mean the cartilages of. the ribs, larynx, ear, &c., there, indeed, such a membrane is very conspicuous; but the perichondrium of the smooth articulating cartilages is so fine and firmly traced upon the surface that there is room to doubt whether it has been often demonstrated or rightly understood. This membrane, however, I have raised in pretty large pieces, after macerating, and find it to be a continuation of that fine smooth membrane (the synovial membrane) that lines the capsular ligament, folded over the end of the bone, from where that ligament is inserted. On the neck of the bone, or between the insertion of the ligament and border of the cartilage it is very conspicuous, and may be pulled up with a pair of pincers j but where it covers the cartilage it coheres to it so closely that It is not to be traced in the recent subject without great care and delicacy. In this particular it resembles that membrane which is common to the eyelids and the fore part of the eyeball, and which is loosely connected with the aTouginea, but strongly attached to the coniea.” (p 516.) o > b j t This observation of William Hunter’s in regard to the continuity of the synovial ^ am not aware it U generally known tin ILLIAM Hontee was not only a surgeon, bi also a member of the Court of AssfstanU of the Co: poration of Surgeons of London. I became acc ndentJly acquainted with this fact last year, i [ of ‘he Corporatioi Win w entry “ 1st Julyf1756. : reported to the Court that Dr. Wii drnn. nf ’ V “'“her of this Court, was d( Court wnn1.l * ‘‘"’^rancliised on such terms as tli was Ordered that tli * T 'nstrument of disfrai ^m uT H th'e Corporatior m his paying down forty guineas for the sami being the same terms on which it was granted to Dr. WATHEN.on the6th Dec. 1753.”—William Hunter took the degree of M.D. in the University of Glasgow, 24th October, 1750, and he became a Licentiate of the College of Physicians in London, in the year 1756; but at the time of his writing this, as well as other valuable papers, he was a surgeon ; and it is too honourable a distinction for the Cor- poration of Surgeons to have included amongst its members two such celebrated men as William and John Hunter, as to pass over without its being distinctly recorded.—J.F.S. (b) Of the Structure and Diseases of Articulating Cartilages; in Philos. Trans, vol. xlii. 1743. p 2