242 SOFT Oil FIBROUS joints producing anchijlosis. This is of two kinds,” says Hunter, “ viz., tlie truly in- flammatory, and the scrofulous; the former we shall now treat of. , “ If the inflammation be carried on, an abscess is formed in the cavity as in any other part; and the suppuration is more universal in the cavity than in other parts, being diftiised through the whole. This continues to approach nearer and nearer the external surface, and either breaks or may be opened. ^ far as they are connected with bone, they are similar to compound fractures, but the suppuration is slow, and takes place M itll difficulty, and then generally falls into the natural scrofulous disposition, which renders ■ it tedious. The suppuration is then imperfect, appearing to partake of both the adhesive and suppurative. The ulcerative disposition is slow in bringing the matter to the skin, which arises from the indolence of the prior suppurative disposition and inflammation. The ulcerative inflammation sometimes goes on, so as entirely to alter the joint, that is, • j the receiving cavity becomes larger and the received part less; this is often the case in:: the hip-joint. These cases then become very tedious, and generally very uncertain in their cure. Before they are opened they are generally become so indolent that opening . has very little effect, and often, when scrofulous, such a disagreeable inflammation . comes on as to destroy the patient, and therefore amputation had better be performed at : once, if this disagreeable inflammation does not take place immediately after opening; yet a fistulous opening is generally the consequence. “ Soft anchylosis from granulations.—A joint so healed has no cavity left; the sur- 1 faces uniting. A joint coming to suppuration from not being resolved in the first mode, i but forming granulations, is more tedious than in the soft parts, and the powers of f restoration in them are very weak. I “ Bony anchylosis takes place when the granulations ossify, so that the two bones are>|j united into one, exactly similar to a compound fracture. But when the suppuration is healthy the joints sometimes recover; in such cases the matter is sooner discharged, and J the parts are more disposed to return into their original state.” (pp. 522, 23.) J Such is John Hunter’s account of this important process, to which, however, somei'j exceptions must be made. He seems to wish it inferred, that anchylosis generally results‘| from suppuration of joints, for he has elsewhere observed, that “ Nature is very little J disposed to take on adhesive inflammation, because the necessary consequence would bei loss of motion in a part originally intended for motion.” (p. 519.) And that granula-. tions as the consequence of suppuration produce anchylosis either soft or bony. I am:: not, however, disposed to assent generally to these statements, though I would not deny:^ their occurrence as exceptions. I In the first place, as regards the frequency of Soft Anchylosis from granulations follow- ing suppuration, I feel assured, from frequent observation, that soft anchylosis is pro-^t duced by the adventitious membrane poured out during inflammation of the synovial mem- i brane, which, as Key (a) says, “ produces ulceration of the contiguous cartilage,” (p. 224,)! and, “ when the cartilage has been wholly absorbed, and the ulcerative process has been 1 checked by the inflammation being arrested, serves another purpose: it becomes the.i medium of union between opposed surfaces of bone, or the means of anchylosis. Longa after all inflammation has subsided, one of the condyles of the femur is often found ad-.j hering to the tibia by means of this membrane, which appears white and ligamentoos,B a layer of cartilage often remaining between the membrane and the bones, as if the pro-- cess of ulceration had been arrested.” (p. 220.) And I believe, most commonly, when i the soft anchylosis so originating is completed, that no suppuration in the joint takes,! place, and that, when it does happen, it results from recent inflammatory action :issum-n ing the suppurative character, and set up by external violence, which, destroying the car- • tilage down to the surface of the bones, these also ulcerate; and then, if there be; sufficient constitutional power, the bones produce the granulations, and these inosculating^ union of the opposed surfaces is produced, as seen in Mayo’s case below, (p. 246,) and as : in compound fracture, by deposit of eartliy matter in the granulations, and thus bony anchylosis is brought about I think this will be shown to be a correct view of the sub-v ject on examination of the cases which will be presently mentioned. Hip disease, which ^ is also almost invariably attended with suppuration, and more or less complete destruc- • tion of the cartilage, and even of the head of the tliigh-lwne and its socket, seems to nu a furtlier proof of the opinion I have advanced, as at that joint soft anchylosis is rarj’ rare ; whilst, on the contrary, bony anchylosis, if the patient’s strength enable him tc battle out the disease, is almost the constant favourable issue of the contest. Key states, that “the formation of the vascular membrane frequently takes pla« without suppuration, as may be seen in strumous joints that have been the subjiTt o chronic inflammation for years, without alwcess having formed ; and the intlammatioi (a) Me<l.*Chir. Trans , vol. xviii.