604 OPERATION FOR For the purpose of keeping the mouth open and pressing down the tongue, artificial means, as the introduction of cork between the back teeth, Suchet’s katagoglos (a) as Avell as the introduction of a blunt hook at the corner of tlie mouth, are superHuouj. , ' and the depression of the tongue witli a spatula is so much the more dangerous as thereby choking is only more provoked. The fixed purpose of the patient is fully sufficient. It must, however, be remarked, that during the operation the patient is to be often allowed rest and the mouth rinsed with cold water, partly to stanch the bleeding, and partly for the removal of the mucus hanging about. The refreshing of the edges of the cleft from below upwards in the way proposed, is more certain than from above downwards, because the flowing of the blood does not interfere with the direction of the knife. According to Graefe’s original proposal, the edges of the cleft should be brought i into a suitable condition for union, by removal with a chisel-like instrument, furnished with a counter-hold, or by touching them with muriatic, or sulphuric acid, caustic potash, tincture of cantharides, and the like. Subsequently, when this operation had j been performed by others in a more simple manner, Graefe also employed for the ' removal of the edge of the cleft, a pair of curved forceps and a narrow knife, which he ^ carried from above downwards. Roux, who commenced with the introduction of ! the threads, then laid hold of the lower part of one edge of the cleft with a pair of forceps, drew it out, and cut it otf with a straight button-ended bistoury, sawing it from below ; upwards. Ebel (i) also and Krimer (c) use a pair of forceps and a simple knife, . directing it from below upwards. Dieffenbach (d) freshens the edges of the cleft with a bistoury, laying hold of the edge of the cleft with a hook, and cuts off a straw's i breadth with the bistoury, directed from below upwards. Berard (e) makes his incision from below upwards. Alcock (/) used the fine scissors, which Roux also ; partially employed, in a bent form, in his later operations. 735. For the purpose of uniting the raw edges, a thread is to be used, on which two straight needles are threaded ; each needle is to be held with a needle-holder, and thrust through, the edge of the cleft being fixed with a pair of forceps, from behind forward, at three and a half to four lines distance from the edge ; the point of the needle is now to be taken hold of with the forceps which had hitherto held the edge of the cleft, and drawn out together with the thread. The other edge of the cleft is to be simi- larly treated. The number of stitches which are thus to be introduced, differs according to the size of the cleft. If the uvula be completely cleft, then from three to four stitcljes are necessary, and the upper must always be first put in. After the patient has been allowed a little rest, and cleared his mouth with water from blood and mucus, the threads must be tied together by means of the extended forefinger against the wound, first with a surgical, and afterwards with a common knot, and cut off close to the knots. Various modes of treatment have been recommended for bringing the cleft together. Graefe’s hook-like needles, and the threading of the two ends of the suture into the lateral openings of a canula placed on the palate, and when the threads have been suf- ficiently tightened, is closed by means of a screw. Subsequently he employed nearly straight needles, and tied the threads (which were black and soaked with oil) in a sur- gical and afterwards in a simple knot (g). Roux used needles of a small curve and a needle-holder, and tied the threads together in two simple knots, in which the first is held with forceps till the second is looped, so that it may not meanwhile give ^y- Ebel (Ji) employs for the sewing, short, straight, double-edged needles, and a needle. Doniges proposes a long needle, like an aneurismal needle, with a very sudden curw, a sharp point having an eye immediately behind it and the stem fixed in a handle bent down, for convenience, like the handle of a gorget. The needle threaded, is passed from behind through either edge of the cleft, and the end of the thread on the inside of tne (o) Journal complement, du Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicale.s, November, 1S22. (6) Above cited, p. 80. ic) In Ukaefe und Wai.theb’s Journal, vol. x. p. 622. Above cited, Feb., 1826. In Schmidt’s Jalirbucher, vol. iv. pt. ni. ( /■) Transactions of .\potherarics and Apothecaries of England and Wales. (j) ScHWEBDT, above cited, and in (jEaSF Journal, vol.x. p. 371. (A) Above cited.