715 SALIVARY FISTULA. cm I'eain stj k, one end of whiel. he passed into the mouth and the ntwri duct, and completed the operation by brm^ng together the o^ifkteJnal Ltulous orifice, .vhich had been previously pared, with a twisted TSe A Uch more simple and equally effectual plan is to pass, through the fistula in Scheek, into the mouth a^needle and thread, the latter f f ™ on its end, only of sufficient size to be received when drawn fiom the mouth into the bottom of the Ltulous aperture. The end in the mouth is to be stick close to the inside of the cheek. In the course of two or days the ulcerates into the mouth and a new way is formed, by which the f passes, and if the case turn out well, the fistulous orifice soon contracts and heals, care being taken by a compress to prevent the saliva finding its way out externally, borne- times however, it is very difficult to induce the external wound to unite, and the pro- duction of a new surface, either by paring the edges or touching with caustic, and keeping them in apposition is necessary.—J. F. S.] 909. It is always necessary that the patient, when the external fistulous orifice is to be closed, should keep the lower jaw as quiet as possible till tlie cure is completed; and only take fluid food through a tube. A carious tooth is often the cause of failure of the operation for salivary fistula, and must therefore be removed before the operation is repeated. 910. The swelling up of the Stenonian duct into a fluctuating tumour, which must be distinguished from an encysted tumour, may, if the duct only be stopped up, be perhaps removed by the introduction of a fine probe. If this be not possible, the swelling should be opened with a lancet from the mouth. If a stony concretion have formed in the salivary duct, it must be cut upon within the cheek, and taken out. The continued flow of the spittle prevents the closing of this opening. [“ The ducts both of the parotid and submaxillary glands,” says Syme (a), “ are liable to become the seat of calcareous concretions, which are named salivary calculi. Their composition is phosphate of lime, agglutinated by a small quantity of animal matter. They have usually a yellowish-white colour, oval figm-e, and finely tuberculated surface. They vaiy in size from that of a millet-seed to that of an almond with tlie shell. In the parotid duct, they are very rai'ely met with, but in the submaxillary duct, not unfrequently. [I doubt their frequency even in the submaxillary duct; Astley Cooper in his Lectures used to mention having removed one from the mouth of the elder Clixe, and Lawrence in his Lectures (b) speaks of having taken out one “ which was about the size of a small bean.” (p. 765.) In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England there are only six specimens, either from the duct or substance of the submaxillary gland; but one from the parotid gland; and some small concretions from the tonsils. Besides these I do not know of any other instances, and have never seen one.—j. F. s.] “ They occasion pain, swelling, and hardness,” continues Syme, “and sometimes impede the flow of the saliva or give rise to the formation of an abscess. In the parotid duct the symptoms thus produced are apt to be confounded with those of rheumatism, tooth-ache, gumboil, or suppuration of the maxillary antrum; while under the tongue, they may be occasionally mistaken for those of encysted tumours. In all cases of doubt, it is right to search the duct with a probe, and to feel for the calculus, by pressing on the plaee where it is suspected to be. So soon as a free incision is made, the concretion escapes, together with the fluid accumulated about it. The original situation of these concretions is immediately within the orifice of the ducts; but they have also been found iml>edded in the substance of the submaxillary gland, where they excited an increased and unhealthy secretion, Avith general swelling and hardness of tlie gland. In such cases the calculus, if distinctly recognised, may be extracted by cutting down upon It, from the mouth.” (p. 427.) Among the specimens at the College (c) there is one large submaxillary calculus an inch and a half long and three quarters of an inch broad, taken from a very old man, who (n) Lancet, vol ii. 1S30. (M Principles of Surgery. (c) A descriptive and illustrated Catalogue of the Calculi, &c., &c., contained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. 1845. 4to.