INFLAMMATION OF TONSILS. 139 ■ Peruez (a), -svlio is a disciple of Broussais, does not consider incision of a carbuncle sufficient unless it produces free bleeding, and, it it do not, then leeches aie indispensable, “ the incision merely putting an end to the mechanical cause which adds to the existing irritation; and the latter continuing after, although much diminished by the separation of the slough, requires a persistence in the antiphlogistic remedies to lessen still further and to put it out completely. Mavsh-mallow or linseed-meal poultices must be used, and if, from any cause, the inflammation be re-excited, local and general means must be had recourse to. In the case which Perbez mentions as having treated on these principles, the advantage gained does not seem so great as he would wish to be inferred. On the first day thirty leeches and on the second fifteen leeches were applied, and the carbuncle covered up in boiled marsh-mallow poultices. The patient was strictly debarred from all solid or liquid food for three days, during which time she was, being of a nervo-san- guineous temperament, well drenched with a quantity of acidulated and gummy drinks. In the following days the sloughs separated, and, as usual, the pain almost entirely sub- sided. A short time after, the surface again inflamed, leeches were applied around, the wound did well, but, from the recital of the case, although not positively stated, probably not very quickly. The older surgeons, and even Pouteau, employed caustic, and even the actual cau- tery ; but both practices are now completely exploded.] 123. The 3Ialignant Carbu?icle requires, especially, the proper treatment of its accompanying fever, and the local application of stimulating poultices, even of the actual cautery, or other caustics, if the swelling will not proceed : the other treatment agrees with that already described. Third Section.—Of Inflammation in certain Special Organs. I.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE TONSILS. Le Cat, C. L., Memoire sur I’Extirpation des Amygdales Squirrheuses, in the Journal de Medecine, vol. ii. p. 115. 1755. Loms, Sur la Eesection des Amygdales Tume'fiees, in the Mem. de I’Acade'mie de Chirurgie, vol. v. p. 423. Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. ii. Perrin, N., Diss. sur la Rescission des Amygdales, Paris, an xm. 4to. Lehwehs, H., Diss. de Scirrho Tonsillarum. Berol., 1817. 8vo. • Thomas, Description of an improved Method of tying Diseased Tonsils in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iii. p. 80. ’ voLT’T820,^N;vembeil p“ Physical Sciences, inSe^MSl^JuTyHs^ physiologiques et pathologiques, sur laLuette, 1 hloyens Chirurgicaux appliquds au Traitement de l’Amydalit6. Paris, 124 or Inflammation of one or both Tonsib^ (Angina Tonsil- Ians, Lat.; Kchlsucht, Germ.; Esquinancie, Fr.,) when accomnanied Lv rnuch swelling, interferes with swallowing and breathing; the patients slak through the nose, and are much troubled by the phleirm which cell on? • the throat. Not unfrequently there is singinrand p5n in Se f according to the degree of the inflammation. are present, (a) As above.