234 ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE FROM, &c. ing the body we discovered an abscess, which seemed to have had its origin in the cellular jneinbrane of the pelvis, near tlie nock of the bladder, which had burst into tlie neighbouring portion of the urethra, and which had also extended upwards on the left side, so tliat it could be traced as high as the mass of enlarged glands in the groin. The whole of the muscles surrounding the left hip-joint, were preternaturally soft and vas- cular, and so altered from their natural condition, that they could be lacerated by the slightest force. They also were to a considerable extent detached, or separated from each other, apparently in consequence of a serous fluid which had been eft'u-sed between them, but of which nearly the whole had become absorbed. The capsular ligament and synovial membrane of the joint were of a red colour, and unusually vascular; and the cartilages covering the head of the femur and lining the acetabulum were also red and of a soft consistence, giving to the Angers a sensation somewhat resembling that which is produced by touching velvet.” (p. 33G-39.) A very remarkable instance of ulceration of cartilage in an almost incredibly short space of time is mentioned by Lawrence (a). In a case of phlebitis, after bleeding, which came under his own care in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, the patient had pain in his knee, comrnencing on the fourth, and he died on the eighth day of the same month. “ On examination after death I found the knee-joint filled with pus of a reddish colour, that is, with pus rendered red by the admixture of blood. The synovial membrane which had produced this pus was highly inflamed, but the articular cartilage of the femur and the corresponding articular surface of the tibia were completely destroyed, and this high degree of ulceration had been produced within the short period men- tioned.” (pp. 482, 3.) He also mentions the following very curious circumstance:—“ When necrosis attacks the shaft of a long bone, though it does not involve the ends, yet the mortification extends (or rather may extend ?—j. f. s.) sufficiently to the extremities to excite in- flammation and absorption of the cartilages, although the synovial membrane does not become involved.” And he speaks of a case in which “ the whole shaft of the thigh-bone had perished, and the cartilages were as completely removed as if they had been cut out by the knife.” (p. 483.) This appears to me the condition, though much more advanced, to which Key refers, when, having spoken of the vascular deposit on the synovial mem- brane tliat destroys cartilage, he proceeds;—“ A membrane is sometimes seen in joints under different circumstances, and affords a contrast to the above, as well in structure as in office. I allude to that adventitious membrane that is formed from the edges of the synovial membrane, in consequence of inflammation of a joint, induced by a contiguoni disease of bone, as necrosis. In this case the membrane is formed for Ae purpose of circumscribing tbe cavity of the joint, when the cartilage is destroyed by the extension of the disease. It possesses but little vascularity, is smooth on its surface, not being furnished with the villous texture necessary to the ulcerative function. The opposed cartilage, under these circumstances, appears entire, ulceration taking place only on the surface next to the bone, and the membrane has not any connexion with the surface of the cartilage.” (pp. 22G, 27.) Although it appears that, under inflammation, either chronic or acute, the less or greater deposit of coagulable lymph from the synovial membrane, which becomes or- ganized, absorbs or eats up tbe cartilage with which it is in contact, as has been so ably described by Key just quoted, and often requires amputation of the limb to tranquillia the constitutional excitement of the patient, which, if continued, would wear out his powers and destroy him; yet is it not to be considered as always a destructive, but rather, as Key (b) has very truly stated it to be, “ a repairing process, established with a view to the ultimate anchylosis of the joint, and by an eflicient provision to prevent an inflammatory process that would otherwise end in ulceration and suppuration. A membrane is gradually developed by the agency of which the cartilage is absorbed, and which afterwards becomes the medium of anchylosis; thus the destruction of the joint is often prevented.” (p. 14G.) _ . . Henle agrees with Key as to the absence of vessels in cartilage, but he explains its wasting or ulceration as dependent on want of nutriment. The following are his obser- vations on the subject:—“ As cartilage has not vessels it is not subject to any disease which depends on unnatural movement of the blood, neither inflammation nor hyper- trophy ; for the same reason, as it needs no vessels, it is not so easily wasted by pressure as bone * * * Cartilage only wastes when the current of blood into tbe tissue upon which its nutrition depends is interrupted; the diseased cartilage, as for instance of in- flamed joints, therefore is destroyed as if by maceration, rough, then as it were eaten, and finally dissolved.” (p. 809.) (n) Lectures on Surgerj-; in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. (4) Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xix.