702 EPULIS. This is accompanied with much deep-seated acliing pain, and dusk^ redness, with : tenderness of the cheek. Wlien these symptoms are present, the condition of the cavern may be suspected; and the mouth must be examined, to ascertain whether there be any i stumps of teeth in the neighbourhood exciting the irritation. If there be any such, they should be removed, and a probe, or iron wire, or a small trocar must be thrust up the tooth-socket, to open a way into the cavern, by which the pus may escape. This aperture will require for its establishment, the insertion of a little wooden plug, which should be removed three or four times a day, so that the pus may flow out. It is also • a good plan to syringe the cavern with warm water through this hole, especially if the ■ discharge be offensive; and if there be reason to suppose any ulceration of its lining membrane exist, injections of weak solutions of nitric acid may be used with advantage. (2) “ The tumour of the gum, epulis, is often,” observes Liston (a), “ a simple growth of ' the consistence of the structure from wdiich it proceeds, and not likely to be reproduce^ if the exciting cause is removed, and the entire disease extirpated; the cause is decay of some part of one or more teeth, of the crown, neck or fang, or it may arise from their being crowded and displaced. The lower jaw is the most common situation of epulis; it appears in the front of the mouth, occasionally at the root of the molares, and iJie upper jaw is by no means exempt from it. Some of the large tumours in my collection, removed along -with this bone, appear originally to have commenced in the alveolar ridge. The size and extent of epulis is various ; it may be confined to the gum betwixt two teeth, or it may have been neglected long, have taken in several, and may be attended with altera- tion in structure of the alveolar processes and their covering. The disease is generally connected with affections of the permanent teeth, but it is met with as a disease of in- fancy. * * * * The tumour is of slow growth ; it remains generally of the same firm consistence, and its attachments are broad and firm; its surface, even when large, is covered by membrane, is unbroken, it becomes lobulated, unless it projects from the mouth, and is exposed to injury ; the teeth are loosened, and present in various parts of the tumour; around their base some excitement may be kept up, and even some ulceration and discharge. The tumour is not of a malignant nature in general, and even in its advanced stages is not inclined to contaminate the parts in its neighbourhood; if thoroughly removed, it does not return. A soft tumour of the gum, rapid in its pro- gress, broken on its surface, and furnishing fetid and bloody discharge, is sometimes, it is said, met with; there is no danger of mistaking the one kind for the other, the remediable for the malignant; fortunately the latter is rare.” (pp. 255, 56.) I have occasionally, though not often, seen epulis of both kinds mentioned by Liston ; that which seems merely a luxuriant growth of one particular part of the gum, is most frequent, but that directly connected with the teeth is more rare. Of the latter kind I operated some time since, on a boy of twelve years old; the tumour was about the size of a bean, on the outside of the left branch of the lower jaw, when first observed, but in the course of two years it spread slowly, as far back as the last molar, and forward to the outer incisive tooth ; it had risen to the edge of the gum, but had not descended quite so low as the base of the jaw; in front, its lower edge had elthCT absorbed and imbedded itself in the jaw, or bony matter had sprung up around it, as it had there a distinct though irregular edge, but behind the ridge was less marked; its size was that of half a walnut; it was elastic, fluctuating, and seemed enclosed in a tough cyst, thinnest above; the membrane of the mouth moved freely over it. At the operation, the cyst was found to have a cartilaginous feel, and the shell of the jaw-bone evidently involved in it. When opened by a crucial cut, about a drachm of glary fluid was discharged, and at the bottom of the cavity, against the side of the jaw, was the second permanent bicuspid tooth, like the so-called lady (the grinding teeth) in the lobster’s stomach. The tooth was drawn, the whole sac removed with scissors close to the surface of the jaw, and the remaining capsule sliced off. The case did well at the time, but eighteen months after he came again with a return of the swelling in the same place, but of a firmer texture. Having lost sight of him since, I do not know what has ensued.—J. F. S.] 885. The causes of carter of the teeth are either external or viirnial. To the former belong the improper use of acrid acid substances, negligent cleansing of the mouth, alternate use of cold and hot food, tobacco chew- ing, and mechanical injury of the teeth, by which the enamel is destroyed, and its internal substance is exposed to the air. In most cases, liowever, (n) Practical Surgery.