40 PUS—SERUM—GLOBULES. fluid which is coagulable by a solution of sal ammoniac, (hydrochlorate of ammonia,) ■which no other animal secretion he knew of is.” (p. 421.) (5) This does not accord with Guetekbock’s (c) observation, who says, that “ Pus of 1 every kind and from any part may be separated into two parts, into a liquor and a sub- | stance, not soluble in it, but only suspended, rendering the pus turbid, and tinging it j yellow ; which, however, 1 could not completely separate by straining, although the most j different papers were used. For the fluid always flowed turbid, and the paper through | which I strained being obstructed, the pus, diluted with water, began in a short time to J putrify. But, if you allow it to remain for a longer time in one vessel, you will find a I supernatant yellow fluid, the greatest part of which, as will be shown hereafter, con- sists of albumen.” (p. 8.)] 12. The fluid (serum) of pus shows no trace of globules: it exhibits all the signs of albumen dissolved in water, which is distinguislied, like the serum of the blood from the white of fowls’ egg in not being thrown down by aether. This fluid also contains fat, osmazome, acetic acid, per- haps also lactic acid, hydrochlorate of soda, of potash, of lime, of ammonia, (Bonnet,) phosphate, sulphate, and probably also acetone and lactate of soda, phosphate of magnesia and lime, a trace of iron and silica. Henle (a) found free fat, recognisable by the microscope, in form of fatty vesicles. Whether many substances which are found in pus, such as pyine, gluten, &c., are proper constituents of that fluid seems still doubtful; as also whether the iron is not to be ascribed to some admixture of blood. [Gdeterbock has entered into the chemical analysis of pus at very considerable length, (pp. 11, 19,) and he describes “ a new substance of peculiar character,” to which, “ although found not only in pus, but also in mucus, without any intermixture of pus, . and in tubercular matter, he gives the name pyine, (from ttvos, i. e. formed of pus,) because he first discovered it in pus.” (pp. 12, 13.) In the translation of Gerber’s , Elements of General Anatomy (pp. 97, 100) will be found the analyses of Vogel, J. Martius, Gueterbock, Kock, Goebel, and Dumas.] | 13. The globules of pus vary in quantity, sometimes a larger, some- times a smaller number being present; the thicker and better the pus, the ^ more numerous are the globules. They are of two kinds; the larger have . a diameter of 0,0004—^0,0005 of a Paris inch ; are of pretty uniform size, usually tolerably round, rarely of irregular form : most of them have an irregular surface, so that they appear as if covered with still smaller glo- ) bules; they are more transparent and less coloured than blood-globules. . Between these larger globules swipi about a smaller quantity of little •' granules, rarely as large as blood-corpuscles. If the larger pus-corpus- , j cles are for some time in contact with water, they become more trans- parent towards the edge, darker in the middle, and the same in spirits ,J of wine. In acetic acid the envelope becomes transparent, finally dis- solves, and leaves behind a nueleus consisting of one, two, or three }; corpuscles of 0,0001 of a Paris inch in diameter, many of which have a central indentation. Sometimes also the envelope bursts, and the nucleus is set free by shaking or rubbing. The envelope consists of albumen. 4 According to Mandt (as above) the larger pus-glol)ules, in respect to their size j form, appearance, and their relation to chemical agents, exhibit a perfect accortlanceju with those globules which the coagulated fibrin presents, either in inflammatory buff, in j false membranes, or in the fibrils, which fibrin forms when the blood is shaken atout J with albumen. Mandt applies to these globules the name Jibrin-glohules, because^* they owe their existence to the coagulated fibrin which is secreted from the blood and jH external to the vessels. The second kind of globules, the diameter of which varie*^^B from to of a millimetre, and which are mixed with the pus-globules, belong to^B the globules of albumen coagulated by the salts of the serum: they are, therefore, moreijB fa) Do Pure et Granulitione Commentatio Vhysiologica. Accedit Tabula icnea. Bcrol., 18S7. '■ (b) Symbol ad Anat. vill. Uerol., 1837, p. 24, note. V