787 OF THE UPPER-AEM. nilt, on account of the atrophy of the m. biceps, tliat it can scarcely be Drought to a right angle. Elevation is not performed gradually, but with I sudden jerk, in which the blade-bone also is considerably raised, the irm pressed to the side, and sometimes even the body bent to the other iide, whilst the elbow-joint rests upon the crest of the hip-bone. The leformity exists from birth, but only first at the period of perfect develop- nent does it become more apparent. This congenital dislocation may )xist on botli sides at once. 1041. Examination after death of a case of subcoracoid dislocation on )oth sides, showed upon the one side scarcely a trace of the natural socket, Dut. on the contrary, immediately beneath the lower edge of the coracoid orocess, partially upon the ribs, partially on the axillary edge of the blade- jone, a well-formed socket of an inch and a-half diameter ; this reached o the under surface of this process, and was only separated from the upper- irm by the capsule of the joint. The perfectly formed capsular ligament, extending from the undeveloped glenoid cavity, suiTounded these articular lurfaces. The perfectly natural tendon of the m. biceps arose from the )oint of the latter, and the capsular ligament was also quite natural. The head of the upper-arm-bone varied considerably from its rounded ibrm; it was oval, and its long axis corresponded with that of the bone itself, which depended especially on the hinder part being deficient. The •.haft was small and decidedly atrophic ; the position of the head on the :oracoid process varied, according to the rotation of the arm inwards or )utwards. Upon the other side the deficiency of the articular surface was lonfined to its inner edge, which was entirely wanting for a thumb’s ipace from above downwards. The inner edge of the joint-surface was I'ormed by a long ridge, which passed down from the under surface of the ;oracoid process ; the tendon of the m.. biceps and the capsule were per- fectly formed. 1042. Smith saw and examined after death congenital subacromial dis- ocation on both sides. The coracoid process projected considerably, as lid also the acromion; the joint-surface beneath was not, however, to be felt; the projection of the acromion, as well as the fiattening of the ihoulder, was less decided than in subcoracoid dislocation ; the fiattening vas confined to the front of the joint. The head of the upper-arm-bone brmed a distinct swelling on the back of the blade-bone, beneath and )ehind the point of the acromion, close on the under surface of its spine. The upper-arm did not stick out from the side, and the fore-arm was 'ofiited inwards. Internal examination of the joint presented no trace of n articular cavity in the usual place, but a well-formed articular pit, sur- ounded by a capsular ligament, arising from the outer surface of the neck *f the blade-bone, which was broader above, and completely reached the inder surface of the acromion; the tendon of the m. biceps was perfect, md firmly attached to the upper and inner part of the unnatural joint’s urface, the direction of which was forwards and outwards. The head of he upper-arm-bone exhibited the same oval form as in the subcoracoid lislocation, only that the fore part of the head was in this case deficient. Ihe little tubercle formed a considerable projection, long and curved, so hat it had remarkable resemblance to the coracoid process of the blade- 'one. 1043. That these dislocations are congenital and not of accidental ccurrence. Smith thinks he has found proof of, as regards subcoracoid 1 3 £ 2