[ 762 ] III.—SOLUTION OF CONTINUITY FROM ALTERED POSITION OF PARTS. A.—OF DISLOCATIONS. F1B8T Chapter.—OF DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Duverney, G. J., Traits des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1751, vol. ii. Pott, P., Chirurgical Works, vol. i. p. 373. Edit. 1783. Kirkland, Thos., M.D., Observations on Mr. Pott’s general Remarks on Frac- tures. London, 1770. 8vo. Also an Appendix to the former concerning the cure of Compound Fractures. London, 1771. 8vo. Aitken, John, M.D., Essay on Fractures and Luxations. London, 1790. 8vo. Bottcher, J. F., Abhandlung von den Krankheiten der Knochen. Berlin, 1790, vol. ii. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, vol. iv. Bernstein, Ueber Verrenkungen imd Beinbriiche. Jena, 1819. 8vo. Cooper, Astley, Treatise on Dislocations and on Fractures in the Joints. London»i 1822. 4to. Caspari, K., Anatomisch-chirurgische Darstellung der Verrenkungen, nebst einem Auhange iiber die complicirten Verrenkungen. Leipzig, 1821. 8vo. Cunningham, J. M., Synoptical Chart of the various Dislocations to which the human frame is subjected, comprising their diagnostic symptoms and modes of reduc- tion. London, 1827. fol. Richter, A. L., Theoretisch-praktisches Handbuch der Lehre, von den Briichen imd VeiTcnkungen der Knocken. Berlin, 1828. 8vo.; with 40 folio plates. Hager, Die Verrenkungen uud die Verkriimmungen. Wien, 1836. 982. A Dislocation (^Luxatio, Exarthrema, Lat.; Verrenkung, Germ.; Luxation, Fr.) is the slipping of a movable bone from its natural articular connexion ; and is distinguished from the separation of bones immovably connected with each other {^Diastasis.') 983. The dislocation is either complete {Ltixatio completa) when the corresponding joint-surfaces not at all touch, or incomplete, (^Luxatio in- completa, Subluxatio,) when they are not entirely separated from each other, with which last must be reckoned Wrenching or Distortion, {^Dis- tortio, Lat.; Verstauchung, Verdrehung, Germ. ; Etitorse, Fr.,) in which the joint-surfaces are partially separated, but their natural condition is again restored by the strength of the muscles and ligaments (1). Dis- locations are further divided into simple, (^Luxationes simplices,) when unaccompanied by peculiar symptoms, and compound {Luxationes com- plicatce,) which are attended with wounds, bruises, fractured bones, severe inflammation, suppuration and other dangerous symptoms; into recent (Luxationes recentes) and old {Luxationes inveteratce) ; into primary, (^Luxationes primitivce^ when the displaced head of the bone remains on the spot whereon it had been first thrown, and secondary, {Luxationet- consecutiva;,) when it is dragged up to some other position by the muscles;