HISTORICAL SKETCH. 5 3. Foreign bodies resulting from the accumulation of unnatural secreted fluids. a. Lymphatic swellings; b. Dropsy of joints ; c. Dropsy of the burs® mucos®; d. Water in the head, spina bifida; e. Water in the chest and empyema; /. Dropsy of the pericardium; g. Dropsy of the belly; h. Dropsy of the ovary; i. Hydrocele. 4. Foreign bodies produced from the concretion of secreted fluids. V. Division.—Diseases which consist in the degeneration of organic parts, or in the production of new structures. 1. Enlargement of the tongue ; 2. Bronchocele ; 3. Enlarged clitoris ; 4. Warts; 5. Bunions; 6. Horny growths; 7. Bony growths; 8. Fungus of the dura mater; 9. Fatty swellings; 10. Encysted swellings; 11. Cartilaginous bodies in joints; 12. Sarcoma; 13. Me- dullary fungus ; 14. Polyps; 15. Cancer. VI. Division.—Loss of organic parts. 1. Organic replacement of already lost parts, especially of the face, according to the Tagliacozian and Indian methods. 2. Mechanical replacement: Application of artificial limbs, and so on. VII. Division.—Superfluity of organic parts. VIII. Division.—Display of the elementary management of surgical operations. General surgical operations: Bleeding, cupping, application of issues^ introduction of setons, amputations, resections, and so on. II. HISTORICAL SKETCH OF SURGERY. First period... to the time of Hippocrates. Second period, from Hippocrates to Galen. Third period.. from Galen to the fifteenth century. Fourth period, the sixteenth century to the middle of the seven- teenth. Fifth period.. the second half of tlie seventeenth century to the present time. The origin of Surgery is founded on the relation of man to external nature, and on his disposition to alleviate the sufferings of his fellow men. In ancient Egypt and Greece the history of Surgery lies in darkness, and I It begins in a special sense with Hippocrates, who collected the pre- 'viously scattered facts, arranged them, and published rational views, drawn from his own experience. It appears from his writings— unTpiior—TTEpl aygwv—TTtpl ruip ep Ke4>aXr] rptogaTwP—Trepl iipdpwp—Trep) itX^p-TTEpl cvpeyyw^—that he was acquainted with a copious apparatus lot mstruments and bandages, and several operations exhibit an actual I technical tendency. In different parts of his Aphorisms he treats of S surgical subjects.