BY CAUSTIC, SAWING OFF. 591 T a Cases of happy cure of uuunited fractures of White, Cline, Lehmann, and Barton, a re collected by Oppenheim and otliers in Bust’s Magazin. I [(1) CuELius has quoted Hewson as having first proposed the use of caustic potash at n ununited fractures. The fact is, however, that it was practised by the younger -[Iline more than twenty years before in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in proof of which, I j !opy from my notes the following , Case.—P. M., a sailor aged thirty years was admitted into St. Thomas’s Hospital, April 13tA, 1815; having on the 7th of September, of the preceding year, fallen down j'|i ship’s hold, by which compound fractures of both legs were produced. For these laccidents he was received into Chatham Hospital, and there continued till the 1st of ■rAlarch last During this time the wounds of both legs healed, and the left shin-bone umited properly by bone, but the right only by fibro-cartilage. Strengthening plasters i md blistering were employed to promote bony union, but without effect. 3 When first admitted into St. Thomas’s, he was directed to walk about for the purpose )f exciting the ossific inflammation, but although this was attended with much pain, gfehere was no improvement. Towards the latter end of May, the part was blistered, but ofvithout advantage. It was therefore determined to have recourse to an operation, 14 vhich was performed. '.a June \2th. The skin was cut through on the inner and fore part of the shin-bone, itjmd the connecting substance, which was solid, being completely laid bare, portions of js) t were cut away with a small crowned trephine, till the ends of the bone were reached, r hnto the hole thus formed, caustic potash was introduced, and allowed to remain for a aj ew minutes, after which a poultice was applied. The patient suffered great pain when M.he intermediate substance was cut into, and indeed was much excited during the whole wperation. He had no pain till the evening of the l4tA, when the leg became very .Gainful, continued so for ten hours, and then became easy. On the \Q>th the pain re- Aurred, and continued for the same length of time, after which it ceased. In a day or ■^iwo after a free discharge was established, and there was not any return of the pain. (frDn the 21st the poultice was left off, adhesive plaster applied, and an outside splint put ^n to support the leg. On 9t/i of July he got up and walked about on crutches. On J die 2Qth he felt that his leg was stronger. On the 27tA he left the house with the con- i( aexion of the broken ends decidedly firmer; but the wound was not healed, and he 1 -eturned again, Aug. 17, with the sore still opened. He continued in the house till , 'Oct. 10, and then left, at which time the union was complete.—j. f. s. a Hewson’s case was successful, and union was complete in twelve weeks after the a operation.] t 718. 7b saw off the cartilage-covered ends of the fracture, they must ttl oe laid bare by a longitudinal cut on that side of the limb where che bone is most superficial, and the large nerves and vessels can be )i ivoided ; they are then to be separated from the surrounding and con- I aecting parts, thrust up through the wound, the soft parts protected by I i spatula introduced beneath, and first the lower, then the upper portion i bf the fracture cut off with a suitable saw. The bleeding vessels are to >i oe tied during the operation; the broken ends are to be brought into oontact, and the case is to be treated as a compound fracture. In the after treatment, subsequent to the removal of the ends of the bone, it must be 0 especially remembered not to expect too early the consolidation of the t ends of the bone, because, from my experience, this occurs only after a ' very considerable time. I am convinced that, in many cases, amputation 1 of the ends of a fracture have had an unsatisfkctory result from want of n ittention to this circumstance (1). If the ends of the bone lie very deep and cannot be easily protruded through the soft i 1*®® Heine’s osteotome. It is frequently very difficult and even im- J ‘lie bone which is overlapped by the other end, and sur- wrounded with much soft parts. In such cases it is advantageous according to Dupuv- 1^® reached, and bring it in contact with Jothe other which has not been cut off (Pigne). Brodie (a), in a cafe of false joint of (a) London Medical Gazette, July, 1834.