G52 ABERNETIIY’S, CAllMICIIAEL’S, AND RICOllD’S lional si/mptoms of sjiphilis are proyrcssive, and never disappear unless medicine be em- ployed. It may be added too, they are as generally relieved under an adequate ell'eet of mercury on the constitution.” (p. 45-7.) AmaiNETHY further remarks, that “ Mr. Hunter thought that syphilitic poison might produce a sore which might be modified by the diseased propensities of the constitutmu and the part, and thus lose its distinctive characters.” And further:—“ If, according to tlie opinion of Mr. Hunter, the action of a syphilitic chancre may be so modified by the diseased propensities of the constitution or part, as to form an ulcer scarcely eogni- pble as a syphilitic one, it follows, &c.” (p. 59, GO.) Where this opinion of Hunter’s is to be found, 1 know not, for 1 cannot meet with it in his work on the Venereal His- ease; and the only passage at all like it is the following:—“ Chancres, as -well as the gonorrhoea, are perhaps seldom or never wholly venereal, but are varied by certain j>e- culiarities of the constitution at the time.” (p. 242). It must not, however, be omita-d, that the last part of his work is occupied with observations “ of diseases resembling the lues venerea, which have been mistaken for it,” and that he closes his book with tlie observation “ that undescribed diseases resembling the venereal are very numerous, and that what I have said is rather to be considered as hints for others to prosecute this inquiry further, than as a complete account of the subject ” Carmichael objects to the use of “ those common but arbitrary terms syphilitic, syphi- loidal and pseudo-syphilitic ” (p. 48) diseases, which he regards as “ an endeavour to con- ceal our ignorance by the adoption of plausible and delusive epithets and appellations.” (p. 47.) And remarks, that “ as long as syphilis is the name attached to a certain form of venereal complaints, we shall never escape from the terms pseudo-syphilis, syphi- loidal symptoms, and sequela of syphilis. The first is an arbitrary term applied to a congeries of symptoms upon the nature and extent of which scarcely two practitioners are agreed; and, therefore, when one person calls a complaint syphilitic, another disease altogether difterent may be presented to the mind of the person he addresses. Pseudo- syphilis is equally objectionable, as it is too general a term for any useful purpose, inasmuch as it embraces not only all those venereal complaints which do not correspond to Hunter’s description of syphilis, but all those spontaneous disorders which have no pretension to a venereal origin, and are solely attributable to some derangement of the constitution. The term syphiloidal symptoms and sequela of syphilis imply that there is but one venereal poison, an opinion which I conceive to be absolutely refuted.” (p. 66.) Without, as seems to me, any very satisfactory reason, Carmichael founds his ar- rangement of venereal complaints on the character of the eruption. He says:—“ In arranging under distinct heads the numerous appearances and symptoms produced by venereal complaints, I would follow the same rule which has hitherto guided the judg- ment of the profession in arranging and classifying all other morbid poisons attended with eruptions. In other words, I would regard the eruption as the most proper basis of the arrangement; and, without neglecting such auxiliary evidence as other attending symptoms may afford, consider them as of minor importance in determining the nature of the disease. By following this method, it is truly gratifying to find how easily the numerous symptoms, both primary and constitutional, of venereal disease*!; which are so various as seemingly to bid defiance to any attempt at arrangement, can be disposed of in their appropriate places under the name of the eruption which belong to their respective species. Next to the eruption the symptom most to be regarded is the primai-y ulcer, whose characteristics are in general found sufficiently distinct to enable us to foretel with tolerable certainty ivhat the appearance of the eruption will be.” (pp. 62, 3.) Now, if such be the fact, as it most undoubtedly is, tliere does not seem good cause for taking the eruption, which is the second, and indeed not unfre- quently the third form of the disease, and which frequently never appears at all, as the foundation of the arrangement of diseases which commonly do not, if properly' tend^ proceed beyond the primary sore, of which sore Carmichael says, “ the characteristics are in general found sufficiently distinct,” which sore must always have occurred prior to the appearance of the eruption, and is the condition of the peculiar eruption, although not necessarily followed by the outbreak of any eruption, as indeed Carmichakl admits:—“ On a loose computation, it may be regarded that nine out of ten of primary ulcers are not attended by constitutional symptoms; so that in a great majority of cases the disease has never arrived at the stage to which it is indebted for its name To this objection I reply, that the primary ulcers afford a less decisive means of determin- ing the nature of the disease than the secondary; yet from their characters when unaltered by irritation or mercury, we may discriminate their nature with sufficjcm certainty to decide on the precise eruption they would produce in their secondary state.