194 WHITLOW, ternal cause, as other tendons are not found subject to tliis disorder: but it may be owing to a puncture which has affected the tendon, together with the sheath, or evea ' the sheath alone. These two parts, we know, are blended together at the tliird joint where the tendon is inserted into the bone: it is therefore no wonder if inHammation of the one should extend to the other. The inflammation spreads afterwards all over the hand and along the muscle from which the tendon arises, as far as to the fore arm, sometimes even to the whole arm, forming an erysipelatous inflation, which terminates under the arm-pit, and swells the axillary glands. The pain and fever are then very violent, attended sometimes with delirium and convulsions.” (p. 419; Fr.edit., p. 547.) This tendinous and the cellular whitlow just described are continally running one into the other from continuous sympathy; and, under one or other form, or a compound of both, often appears the result of punctured wounds, (which will be heareafter consi- dered, par. 328.) especially those most dangerous and often fatal received during dis- section. The inflammation set up in the tendon or its sheath, and propagated from the one to the other, as described by Le Dran, is always accompanied with inflamma- tion of the neighbouring cellular tissue, and, as Chelius observes, often spreads to the periosteum, which, separating from the hone in consequence of the effusion of matter l)e- neath it, and often participating in the slough of the theca and tendon, which not unfre- quently, though not so constantly, happens in this disease, that we can agree in Le Dran’s definition, that it is “ not a phlegmonous abscess, like the second kind, but a pu- trefaction either of the sheath alone or the tendon with it.” Under these circumstances, the bone is destroyed and exfoliates, which is commonly a very tedious though not dan- gerous process.—J. F. S.] Fourth. On the inflammation taking place in the periosteum ; the pain is excessively severe, though not spreading over the hand and fore arm; tlie affected finger at the beginning is not at all swollen; it soon suppurates, and the bone is attacked. The severe kinds of whitlow may be connected with each other inasmuch as a less may pass into a more severe form. In the spreading of the in- flammation over the hand, painful swellings may occur in various parts. A painful state, near the nail of the little finger, without any previously apparent in- ■ flammation, has been observed, which Richter calls the dry whitlow, in which the • pain continues for minutes or hours, and then disappears for days or weeks. On ampu- • tation of the finger all the soft parts are found natural, but the bone converted into a i mass resembling fat (a). tABERNETHY Calls this Paronychia osseosa. lE Dran asserts “ that this species of whitlow proceeds from a disease of the bone,, in consequence of which the periosteum soon putrefies, or is attacked with an erysipelas i . which degenerates into a putrefaction: from whence it happens that, when making an i opening, the bone is found bare and frequently carious.” He observes that “ the inflam- - mation seldom extends over the fore arm, as described in the preceding kind.” (p. 420;: Fr. edit., p. 550.) I do not recollect to have distinguished this disease, and doubt much whether the in- - dications mentioned are sufficient for that purpose.—J. f. s. Abernetht speaks of “ an ulceration with great thickening at the end of the fingers, and toes, and pain particularly at night, which has been described under the name of t Epinychia. It goes on producing disease of the skin, and no nail will grow, or perhaps » the disease extends and leaves a little island of nail, and this I have seen plucked out as i the cause of the disease, though it was really the only sound part. I have seen it go on » forjthree years and not get well. It is the produce of an ill state of health.” (6). I pre.su^ t under this name Abernethy refers to the disease called by Sauvaoes (c) Epinycti*; - he describes it, however, as a pustule rising in the night, resembling a boil, of a blackish k red colour, crowding together three or four lines in diameter, aftecting chiefly the Ic^ < and very frequently painful, especially at night. He describes two species,—E. vulgaris, ».j and E. pruriyinosa, I John Pearson speaks of a Venereal Paronychia, which he describes as appearing in»l the form of a smooth, soft, unresisting tumour, of a dark red colour, and situated in the 'ij cellular membrane about tlie root of the nail. It is attended with an inconsiderable <1 degree of pain in the incipient state; but, as suppuration advances, the pain increases m »l (a) Acbill, Chiriirgisclie Vorfalle, Gott., 1777, vol. p. 210. (6) MS. Lectures on Surgery. I (c) Nosologia Metliodica. Amsteruam, 1768. 4to. wl. i. I