' FRACTURE OF THE BONES the fore-arm, and by means of some circular turns to draw the hand to the contrary side. In order to keep the hand in the direction towards the ulnar side, recommended by Dupuytren, in fracture of the lower end of the spoke-bone, Blandin employs two splints, which are bent with a knee opposite the wrist, for the purpose of drawing the hand to the ulnar side with the last turns of the bandage. Goyuand’s apparatus (a). [If the spoke-bone alone be broken, the splints, which should extend beyond the tine of the fingers, should be bandaged only to the wrist, and the fore-arm put in a sUm which should not extend further, and placed horizontally in a position intermediate to pronation and supination with the thumb upwards. Thus arranged the weight of the hand drags continually on the base of the spoke-bone, and tiring the muscles connecting this side of the hand and arm, the weight of the hand pulls the lower end of the fra^ ture and retains it in place. Fracture of the cubit requires the bandage to the end of the fingers so as to keep it in place by the drawing down of its lower end, to which the spoke-bone serves as a stret. In fracture of both bones the fore-arm is best laid supine. In all fractures of the fore-arm the splints should either have convex surfaoa • towards the limb or should be weU padded along their middle, so as to thrust the muscles between the bones and keep them well apart.—J. F. S.] 658. If the fracture of the fore-arm be complicated with wound, it must be laid on a pillow, surrounded with Scultetus’s bandage, and the treatment conducted after the general rules. 659. Fracture of the Olechranon is most commonly transverse, rarely more or less oblique, and may be caused by direct violence upon the ■ olechranon when the arm is half bent, or by contraction of the muscles, . which however is more rare. The olechranon rises half an inch, or two ■ inches higher; and according as the fibrous covering is more or less tom, . a space is felt between the upper and lower end, which increases if the arm be bent; the patient cannot straighten his arm; the upper part of f the olechranon may be moved laterally; no crepitation however is disco- verable, except when the distance between the two fractured ends is but i very trifling. At first there is considerable swelling of the elbow-joint, and ecchymosis to a great extent. 660. The fractured ends are generally united by fibrous intersubstance, • i which, however, does not interfere with the motions, if they be not too wide ; apart; in this manner such fractures unite when left to themselves. If ' the fibrous covering of the olechranon be torn, the broken ends are p | farther apart, and generally unite with deformity, by which the motions of the arm are very much disturbed. If the fracture be accompanied 51 with much bruising of the joint, and splinterings of the olechranon, dan- gerous symptoms may occur, and be followed by stiffness. j 661. Although in this fracture it seems most suitable to keep the fore- arm in complete extension, and by pressure to bring the upper end in s contact with the lower end of the fracture, as effected by the apparatus of i Bottcher, Wardenburg, Astley Cooper, and Amesbury, yet expe- - rience proves that, in this position of the arm, an irregular and missiiapen «j union of the broken ends may very easily be produced by too great exten- f j sion of the arm, besides that the position itself is extremely painful to the < patient. A moderately bent position (as when the arm hangs down at ti rest, or at an angle of 160°) is therefore preferable, which permits the * closest contact of the fractured ends, and is least painful to the patient, t as was recommended by Duvernay and Sheldon, and more especially > (a) Fhobiep's Chirurgisclie Kupfertafeln, pi. 3^, fig. 1 to 11.