77 PHLEBITIS. * that the earth is not in immediate contact with the stream of blood. This, however, is not I always the case, for the lining coat sometimes appears to be deficient, or hangs in shreds ! into the tube of the artery, so that the blood does actually how in contact with the earthy ^ matter, and the latter is occasionally deposited in such quantities that it completely fills ! up the'cavity of the artery, rendering it impervious, and converting it as it were into a I calcareous rod, the particles of which, however, are not in very intimate union: an I excellent instance of such conversion of the femoral artery is in the Museum of St. \ Thomas’s Hospital. f The deposition of calcareous matter in the coats of arteries is not restricted to old ^ ^persons; for Portal observes“ The vessels of young persons rarely ossify; instances, V however, have been noticed of ossifications in the arteries of some children, in whom the i ossification of the bones had not proceeded far.” (p. 133.) Hodgson also mentions, 1 -that “ George Young possesses a temporal artery, which he removed from an infant of fifteen months old, in which the coats of the vessel are converted into a complete tube tof calcareous matter.” (p. 23.) The analysis of the earthy concretions made by Brands for Hodgson presented 6.5.5 ,Df phosphate of lime, and 34.5 of animal matter in 100 parts; the latter consisted chiefly Df albumen, with traces only of gelatin. No carbonate of lime was discoverable.—J. F. S. These earthy deposits are not bone as appears from the following statement of IMeescher (a):—“ Ossifications of all the arteries very frequently occur which are situated between the innermost and proper tunic, in form of larger and smaller plates, of which the smooth surface turned towards the cavity of the artery, the colour, density and toughness very closely resemble true bone ; but, when broken, they always had to me a 'foliaceous or squamous appearance, very like the scales of an oyster-shell; nor could I ’ever, though often seeking with the microscope, discover corpuscles or canalicules; the soft substance left after the addition of hydrochloric acid never presented any definite texture.” (p. 46.)] Inflammation of the Veins, when partial, manifests itself by the symptoms K)f inflammation in general; but, when it spreads further and attacks the Jarge venous trunks, then appear violent symptoms, such as a rapid pulse, ■depression, restlessness, delirium, and so on. The cause of inflammation nf the veins is most commonly external injury. Its terminations are, •1st, thickening of the venous coats; 2nd, stagnation and formation of clots ; 3rd, efiusion of plastic lymph and obliteration ; 4th, formation of t pulsating swelling; 5th, suppuration and bursting of the venous walls; ^ and, 6th, ossification. It According to Critv'elhier (6), the symptoms in adhesive phlebitis, as well as in cir- I cumscribed suppurative phlebitis, are entirely local, and originate in irritation of the I internal coat of the vein, and in the mechanical obstruction, which, by stopping up the j veins or the branches of the inflamed venous twigs, opposes the passage of the blood and ^ of the lymph. The pain and fever depend on the inflammation, and the oedema upon Ethe naechanical obstruction to the circulation. In the uncircumscribed suppurative phlebitis, the symptoms depend on infection of the blood. The patient passes suddenly H and without intermission from a state not seemingly dangerous to stupor, prostration of E power, and to death, like an animal into whose veins pus has been injected. [Inflammation of the veins or phlebitis as it is now generally called is far from an p infrequent disease, and when very active is extremely dangerous. As our author states, 0 the cause of this disease is most commonly external injui-y; but I have known it to arise I spontaneously in the leg, wliere the veins have had a varicose disposition. The track « of the inflamed vein is easily distinguished by its redness, by its feeling like a cord of I greater or less length beneath the skin, as thick and sometimes thicker than a goose- I quill with protuberances at uncertain distances corresponding to the situation of the ^ valves. This cordlike character depends upon the coagulation of the contained blood, “ the coagulating lymph (fibrin) undergoing,” as Hunter (c) observes, “ some changes I in Its passage through The inflamed ves.sels, which obliges it to coagulate more immedi- hi otherwise; for, in those cases of inflamed arms after bleeding, and in inflammations in consequence of other causes, we find that the cavities ot the veins are in many places furred over and in others united by means of the coagu- g lating lymph. Now, if this coagulating lymph is similar in its productions to that ^ (n)Dc Inflammatione Ossiuin eortimque Ana- t tomu gencrali. Bcrolini, 183C. 4to. SAnatomie Pathologiquo On Inflammation, &c. productions Paris, 1837.