667 ZITTMANN’S DECOCTION. he takes a second like dose, and if he be a strong person at the third half-hour he takes half a dose, so that together twenty-five grains of calomel and si.v cnps of beef tea are taken. lie then goes to bed, and drinks in the morning a couple of cups of moderately strong coffee, which usually produces tliree or four thin motions. If this do not happen at the tenth or twelfth hour after having taken the medicine, a powder of fifteen or twenty grains of jalap, and as much tartrate of potash, must be given in order to produce at least one evacuation. After two days rest, the patient must, according to circumstances, take the same dose oi calomel in two or three portions ; on the seventh day, the third ; on the tenth, the fourth ; on the thirteenth, the fifth ; on the sixteenth, the sixth ; and the conclusion is made on the nineteenth or twenty-first day, with the seventh or eighth dose. As at the third and fourth dose the stomach becomes accustomed to the irritation of the mercury, from five to six : grains of jalap must he added to each dose. At the same time, a weak decoction of bark must be taken to support the reproductive powers, ' whilst the mercury destroys the dyscrasic. During this cure the patient must keep in-doors at least two or three hours in the forenoon, to promote ’ perspiration ; in not very bad weather he may, without harm, go about his business. The principal object of this treatment is, to produce stools, because they more certainly prevent salivation; but if that come on, . whicli frequently happens in persons who have already used much mercury, the cure must be suspended. 854. Zittmann’s decoction (a) is to be used in the following manner: on the first morning the patient takes sixteen portions of pil. mere. . laxant; on the four following days he drinks in the morning a bottle of • warm strong, and at noon a bottle of not warmed weak decoction ; on the sixth day, again he takes the purging pills, as at first; and on the four following days, the decoction in like manner. Herewith the patient should eat only two ounces of roast meat, and as much white bread daily ; . and soup three times on those days when the purge is taken. The patient . keeps in bed during the whole time, for the purpose of properly producing the perspiration. After the use of the decoction, he should keep his room for some time, drink infusion of spec, lignorum, or of sarsaparilla, and observe a weak diet. If the patient be not restored, the whole cure must be repeated a second time. In very robust persons, the purging pills must be once given on the eleventh day. The ulcers during the cure are merely to be cleansed with lukewarm water, and covered with charpie, either dry or spread with mild ointment. On an average, the use of the decoction is followed by five or six, and more, thin watery motions, and more or less, great perspiration. I have never noticed any accident which rendered breaking off this cure necessary. In largely spreading erup- tions and very weak persons, it may be advantageous that only one bottle of the decoction should be drunk daily for the purpose of lengthening the (a) H Rad. sarseR et coque cum Aq. font. Ibxxiv. pro ijior., et adde Alum, sacchar. 3jss. Merc. dulc. Cinnab. antim. in nodul. ligat. sub fine coct. admisce Fol. senn. Jiij. Rad. liquirit. ^ss. Sem. anis. vulg. — fsDnicul. ak 3iv. Colat. lib. xvi. D. ad lagen. viii. S. Decoct, forte. B Resid. decoct, fort. Rad. sarsap. 3vi. coq. cum Aq. fontan. ftxxiv. sub fine coct. adde Pulv. cort. citr. cinnaraomi. cardamom, aa 3>ii. Rad. liquirit. 3U. Colat. lib. xvi. D. ad lag. vii. S. Decoctuin tenue.