419 TREPANNING. I directed according to the difference of tlie object to be attained. Tliere- I fore, in extravasation, that part is to be trepanned where the already de- I scribed symptoms are supposed to have their seat; in fractures of the bone, I so upon its middle tliat the pyramid of the trepan stands on one side of the ;■ fracture ; in fracture with impression, on the edge of the impression, but t so that the crown plays upon the edge of the fracture; in small fractures or balls driven in, the whole may be surrounded with the trepan crown ; in injuries on or into the sagittal and lambdoidal suture it must be applied on i both sides. The number of applications of the crown cannot be predeter- mined ; they must be repeated till all the extravasation be perfectly re- moved, pressure removed without violence, and splinters extracted. 437. Trepanning is divided into the following acts :—1, laying hare the bone; 2, perforating it; 3, elevating the piece of bone; and, 4, the various particulars necessary for the attainment of the object. 438. As the kind of injury to the soft parts varies, and the number of pplications of the crown of the trepan cannot at the first be deter- ined, the following general rules only can be given for laying bare the one. The coverings of the skull are to be preserved, because thereby the pcarring is promoted, although many object to flap-cuts because they lire in the way, during the operation, and crumple together subsequently in die dressing. Upon the temporal bone a flap of the temporal muscle is to »e made with its base above. If it be presumed that one crown will suffice, i simple long cut may be made, of which the edges are to be separated. ~‘or several crowns, a + or T-shaped cut should be made, the flaps of hich must be turned back. The head of the patient should be placed pposite the light on a solid table; the knife so held in making the in- ision that its edge should always be vertical, and the hand supported ither on the thumb or little finger. The bleeding must be permitted to ontinue, because thereby the symptoms are often diminished; it is to be nched by rubbing the mouths of the vessels with cold water, or by tying em. The pericranium should be scraped off with the scraper from lie circumference to the centre of the space to be cut through by the [pplication of the trepan, and removed. 439. The penetration of the bone is eflected either with the improved ch-trepan, or with the hand-trepan (trephine.) The application of the tter is more simple than of the former, but more wearisome for the ope- tor. I The perforation of the skull is effected more easily and more certainly by B. Heine’s jme-knife (osteotom) ; inasmuch as with it an opening corresponding to the object of le operation may be made at pleasnre into the skull; the dura mater is less liable to Ijury, and it is unnecessary to suspend trepanning for the purpose of cleaning the saw- fcth from the bone-dust; the sawing-through is also accompanied with less shaking. ICompare von Graefe and Waltheh’s Journal, vol. xviii. p. 39. 1440. In using the arch-trepan (1) the following method is adopted: after roperly clearing the bared bone, the pyramid or pin of the trepan crown is I be put a little over the edge, held firm, the crown attached to the arch, in le under part of which it is held like a featlier, the pyramid fixed on the liddle of the exposed part of the bone, and the trepan brought completely krtical. The left hand lies flat on the disc of the arch, the right grasps le handle. The trepan is now to be turned round from right to left ther quickly, and until it has sawn in a sufficient deep groove for the guidance of the crown without the pyramid. The trepan is to be 2 E 2