WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 447 The insertion of a gutter-sliaped curved piece of card-board, recommended by Rich- TER and others, is useless. The finger alone can distinguish the bleeding vessel, if the blood pour into the cavity of the chest, in which case, in expiration or in coughing, it always flows from the wound in a full stream. In the symptoms already given, it must not, however, be overlooked, that they refer to injury of the intercostal artery alone, but that ordinarily injury of the lung happens at the same time. 1 his objection applies also to the canula proposed by Reybard (a), provided at its front end with a ^teral apertuie to be held against the wounded vessel, and at its hind end connected with a bladder. [An interesting example of a fatal gun-shot wound of the intercostal artery is given by Graefe (6), which was the cause of considerable dispute on account of the shot not having been found in the neighbourhood of the wound;— • , i, A young man, aged fifteen years, received a discharge of small shot in the chest and belly at the distance of about forty-eight paces. He instantly fell, but soon afterwards got up and ran for about six hundred paces when he again fell exhausted. About an hour afterwards he was discovered and taken home. On examining his person the following external injuries were observed:—1, a small round wound of the form of a middle-sized shot on the right side of the chest near the sternum and the interspace between the first and second ribs; from this wound a quantity of florid blood continued to issue: 2, a wound of about the same size and shape, on the right side of the belly, between the navel and ribs. This wound appeared to be superficial: no blood issued from it: 3, a slight contusion of a circular form on the left side of the belly not far from the navel. He died thirty-eight hours after the receipt of the wound. On examining the body and tracing the wound in the chest, the substance of the m. pectoralis major, through which the shot had passed, was found filled with thick black blood; a quantity of the same kind of blood continued to escape from the chest through the orifice during the inspec- tion. On laying open the cavity the quantity extravasated amounted to twenty-eight ounces, the greatest quantity being in the right side. The right lung was collapsed, occupying only about one-fourth of its cavity. There was an opening on its anterior surface at the upper part, corresponding to the external wound. From this a canal was traceable for about an inch and a quarter into the substance of the right lung backwards ; it then passed towards the surface of the organ for about an inch and a-half, and ter- minated in a cul de xac. At the inferior margin of the sixth rib, and at about two inches from its head posteriorly and internally, a lacerated opening of about an inch in depth was discovered. On carefully dissecting this part, the sixth intercostal artery was found torn through, and the muscular structures around filled with blood. No foreign body was here discovered by which the wound might have been caused, nor was there any communication externally and posteriorly, by which such a body might have passed out. The abdominal wound was about the size of a pea; it had penetrated the abdominal cavity, but the viscera were uninjured. No shot could be discovered to account for this wound. The Medical College to which the dispute was referred, after giving a review of the case, decided that “ the only wound penetrating the cavity of the chest being that already described as situated anteriorly between the first and second ribs, through this opening the shot must have entered, which produced the deep-seated laceration. From the exa- mination of this wound during life and after death, it is clear that the canal which the shot had formed did not pass horizontally backwards, but in a direction from above down- wards. Under these circumstances, the part at which the shot would strike posteriorly would be between the sixth and seventh ribs. The circumstance of no shot having been found in the neighbourhood of the wound, is no obstacle to the admission of this opinion of its origin; since it is well known that large musket-bullets are often deflected from their course by a slight resistance, and lie concealed in parts remote from the wound. If this be observed with regard to such large masses of lead, dfortiori it would take place with small shot.] ^ 492. We are rich in remedies proposed for stanching bleeding from the intercostal artery, but equally poor as to the facts which determine their fitness and applicability. To these belong the tying round of the rib according to Gerard (c), Goulard (rf), and Leber (e); the tying the artery (without the rib) by means of an armed needle, jointed at its fore- (n) Above cited, plate iii. fig. .1. (6) In Henke's Zeitachria fiir die Staabsarznei- liunde, 1836, and British and Foreign Medical Re- view, vol. iii. p. 536. 1837. (c) Bionis, Cours d Operations de Cliirurgie, par De i,.\ Faye, Paris, 1771, p. 341. (d) .Mcmoires de 1'Academic des Sciences, an 1740. (a) Pi.ENCK, Sammlung von Beobachtungen, vol. ii. p. 210.