739 FISTULA. the peri/Kcum, and so on; or it communicates with the rectum, with the colon, with the vagina in women, or witli the cavity of the belly, in which case there is always a fatal effusion of urine into it Complete urinary fistulas are mostly consequent on retention of urine, tearing, injury o le bladder, or an incomplete internal or external fistula. These, which in men open into the rectum, frequently occur after the operation for the stone, as those connected witli the vagina take place after difficult deliveiy, or after ulceration of tlie vagina. Cancer of the rectum and oi the agina may also produce urinary fistula. Complete urinary fistula is cliaracterized by the escape of urine, which is constant, if the fistula be from the bladder, but only whilst making water, if from the urethra; this escape, however, is not always present in complete fistula, as if the fistulous passage be very narrow, and the urethra not [obstructed, the urine often passes by the latter alone, and in fistula of the bladder, if the canal be very narrow and curved, often only by straining, whilst emptying the bladder. It also depends on the condition of tlie fistulous canal, whether the probe introduced into it can be made to touch i catheter in the urethra or bladder. If the fistula communicate with the vagina or rectum, the urine escapes by these canals; or the opening of the fistula is felt by the finger introduced into it, or merely by the sound passed into the bladder. If the fistula be connected with the rectum the urine fiows through it or is mixed with stool. Less constant are these symptoms, viz., hardening of the course of the fistulous canal, or in the whole extent jf the perincetim, inflammation, unhealthy suppuration, proud flesh about ;he fistulous opening, loss of power, wasting, hectic fever, and the like. 948. The prognosis in urinary fistula depends on its situation and 3xtent, on the constitution of the patient, and on other diseases connected with it. Complete fistulas, of which the internal opening is connected with little loss of substance, heal more easily than those which have it with greater loss of substance; fistulas of the urethra, under similar circumstances, leal more readily than those of the bladder. When the canal of the ■irethra is considerably changed, greatly narrowed, or entirely obstructed, ind cannot be reopened, the cure is impossible. Urinary fistulas communi- cating with the vagina or rectum are extremely difficult, and frequently lot to be healed. A bad state of the patient’s powers renders the prognosis •'ery doubtful. 949. The cure of incomplete external fistula requires the general reatment of fistulous sores. Suitable pressure often assists the healing; )ften must the fistulous orifice be enlarged by a conical cut, of which the loint is directed towards the urethra or the bladder, the source of the pus aid bare, every neighbouring passage opened, and care taken for the free low of the pus. If there be callosities, dispersing bran poultices and iroper digestive remedies must be employed. If caries be connected with his fistula or any general affection be connected with it, the treatment oust be modified according to general rules. 950. Incomplete internal urinary fistula requires the introduction of a atheter, which often, if the urethra be narrow, must be preceded by the i.se of the bougie. The catheter must be of moderate size; otherwise it fills ip the urethra too much, or the urine escapes by its side. If the fistula be 'Id and the cure do not in this way take place, the incomplete must be hanged into a complete fistula by a suitable cut, which is also necessary in xtensive urinary infiltration, where several incisions often must be made, 3 B 2