393 OF THE SKULL WITH IMPRESSION. often perfectly sensible and free from headach and giddiness immediately after the injury. Whether it may not produce such an effect at some remote period, is notso e^ily deter- mined, since this cannot be ascertained but by a continued acquaintance witli the persons who had received the injuries. All, however, whom I have had an opportunity ot knowing for any length of time after the accident continued as well as it nothing ot le kind had ever happened to them. (p. 14.) Though a slight decree of pressure does not immediately atfect the functions of the brain, yet it may act in another way; it may excite inflammation of that organ, as it does of otlier parts of the body. Its power in this respect, however, will probably lessen by the part becoming accustomed to it; and the cases on record, where fractures with depression have done well, as well as those ot recovery from apoplexy, are proofs that the cause which in the first instance was in- jurious by its pressure may continue to exist without inconvenience. Such cases ought surely to deter surgeons from elevating the bone, in every instance of slight depression, since by the operation they must inflict a further injury upon their patients, the conse- quence of which it is impossible to estimate. From all therefore I have learned from books, as well as from tbe observations 1 have made in practice, and from reasoning upon the subject, I am disposed to join in opinion with those surgeons who are against ^phining in slight depressions of the skull, or small extravasations on the dura mater. * A circumstance, however, frequently occurs that may render the surgeon doubt- 1 as to what course he ought to pursue ; this happens, when at the same time that the kull is slighly depressed, the patient labours under the effects of concussion. * * * As the iffects of the latter gradually abate, a little delay will enable the surgeon to decide upon he nature of the mischief, and take his measures accordingly. Where the patient re- ains his faculties, nothing farther is necessary than a continuance of the antiphlogistic )lan ; and should any inflammation afterwards take place, the same means employed, in i degree proportioned to the urgency of the symptoms, will, in most instances, be suc- essful, without elevating the bone.” (p. 21-23.) It must not, however, be forgotten, that, although to the teaching of these two great asters in Surgery, the almost universal practice, now pursued in this country, of not rephining simple fractures of the skull, with depression but without symptoms, must be cribed, yet the practice did not originate with them: for Dease appears to me to have »n the first, who, led by the result of his own obseiwations, broke through the practice f trephining in cases of simple fracture of the skull, for fear of inflammation and sup- luration of the dura mater, especially laid down by Pott, whose practice he for some lime followed. In his Introduction he says :—“ I considered those fatal consequences often to proceed from the obstinacy of the patients in not submitting early to the ecessary evacuations, and their general neglect of keeping to any low regimen; as the reater number by far of them were under no apprehension of danger, from a wound un- ittended by any other disagreeable circumstance, so that until they were seized with ' ose symptoms which shewed the suppuration begun, they, for the most part, followed eir usual employments. I determined, therefore, to persuade such as presented them- Ives, especially those who had wounds where the cranium was so injured as to make ,e apprehend the dura mater or its vessels suffered, as in those who had simple frac- ires, to come into the hospital, informing them of the bad consequences their not com- ilying would be productive of. All those who fell under my care, in such circumstances, om the beginning, I treated in the manner I then thought most likely to prevent any iture inflammation and suppuration taking place in the brain or its meninges ; profuse leeding, purging, severe regimen, &c., were not spared; and all those who had simple ractures were immediately trepanned. However, I can assure the reader, the event by 0 means answered my expectation ; for, notwithstanding, fevers, shiverings. and all the oncomitant symptoms of matter underneath the cranium, succeeded as frequently in ten, ivelve, or fourteen days, and terminated as fatally as if they were entirely left to nature • nd such as recovered I could by no means attribute to the treatment, as many in similar rcnmstances did well, without having the least alarming symptoms intervene, although ley neglected all ^advice, and some lived very irregularly; and even in such as wctc kter seized with symptoms they did not appear earlier or more severe, than in those who ere treated with the most exact attention. “ From this I am induced to think that a surgeon who applies the trepan in simple ictures, where he has not a strong probability of the detachment of the dura mater, ictravasation, &c., in order to obviate the consequences of its future inflammation and ^ppuration, subjects his patient to a severe operation, ever more or less dangerous in Wit, often productive of disagreeable effects, which remain during life, and by no teans indicated; and that the good effects of profuse bleeding, in disengaging the parts itected, are extremely doubtful.” (p. xxii-xxvi.)