358 SYMPTOMS AND EFFECTS Dr. Patrick Russeli, (a), differ from those produced by the rattlesnake. In one case, “ a Malabar woman who had been bitten in the small of the leg, after ten hours had lost her senses of seeing and feeling, and deglutition was so much impeded that hardly any ' thing could be got to pa.ss into the stomach. No other parts were visibly affected by spasms ; but a torpor and listlessness pervaded the whole system, and from the moment of the bite had continually increased.” She recovered in the course of ten days, after dilating the wound, and dressing it with mercurial ointment, under the use of the Tan- jore pill. (p. 78.) In another case, “ a Dubash was bitten in the toe; a few drops of blood issued from tlie part, and he was immediately sensible of pain. In half-an-hour the pain had extended up to the knee; and ten minutes after up to the top of the thigh, and much more severe. He then complained of severe pain in the belly, which was tense, and much swollen. A sense of tightness spread towards the chest, and respiration became very laborious. Soon after deglutition became impeded, and the stricture in the cesophagn* increased so much that nothing could be forced down his throat; he foamed at the • mouth ; his eyes stood staring and fixed; his pulse and respiration became hardly per- • ceptible, and, in short, every vital motion seemed at a stand.” He recovered from the • immediate effects of the poison, with the use of Madeira wine and the Tanjore pills, in i the course of a few hours, but was weakly for some days. (p. 79.) The following case is s remarkable on account of the sloughing which ensued, as in Home’s case, but the man i recovered. “ A Gentoo man, about forty years of age, was bitten in the fleshy part between i the thumb and fore-finger; he instantly felt a sharp pain in the part bitten, which soon i spread on the palm and upwards on the arm. He was sensible also of sickness at the * stomach, but did not vomit. In less than an hour the hand and wrist were considerably f swelled, the pain extending nearer the shoulder; he was sensible of a confusion in his t head, and had a strong disposition to doze. He at times showed much inquietude, with- h out making any specific complaint; at other times he lay moaning and dozing. Towards I midnight his disorder increased, startings about his throat were observed, his breathing became laborious, he could not speak articulately, and seemed not to perceive objects i though his eyes were open. A poultice of herbs was applied, and a secret internal anti- »• dote administered. When seen next morning by the surgeon, his hand and arm were t monstrously swollen, and the punctures were presumed to be livid, although this inightti have been from the stain of the poultice which could not be got off. He had recovered f his senses, was free from fever, and complained only of confusion in the head, of langour, r and of pain in the arm. Bark was ordered, but a few doses only were taken. Then parts about the puncture mortified first; the gangrene then spread over the back andi palm of the hand, and part of the wrist, laying the tendons bare, and forming an ulcers of considerable extent, which, however, healed favourably under the usual treatment 1 He recovered his health in eight or ten days; but it was several months before he re-« covered the use of his hand.” (p. 82.) Russell also mentions three fatal cases of snake-bites, but without stationing whatj kind of snake. The first was that of “ a Havildar, who was bitten at one o’clock in tha morning, in the little toe of the right foot. He was not at the moment sensible of much- more pain than that occasioned by the bite of a large ant, and lay down to sleep. At' day-light he was found almost stiff, yet still retained the power of speech, and declai^ he should inevitably die in consequence of the bite. He complained very little of paiiv> but seemed to suffer a general stupor; he had totally lost his sight, and expired befoni seven in the morning. * * * The second was a Gentoo boy, who, thrusting his hand inti a hole in the wall, was bitten in the hand. He exclaimed loudly, and his master, running to know what had happened, found the boy hardly able to give an account of what haci befallen him, and in not more than ten minutes after crying out, he expired. * * * third was a very stout Arab porter, who was bitten by a small snake, and expired almosii instantaneously. The snake was that called by the Portuguese cobra de morte, from six to nine inches long, as thick as a tobacco-pipe; the head black, with white marks, beari ing some resemblance to a skull and two cross bones; the body alternately black ami white, in joints, the whole length.” The first case, which expired within six hours the bite, Russell observes, “ agreed nearly, as to time, with the Jew fatal accidents h . heard of while in India.” (p. 78-81.) _ • n Barton, speaking of the mode in which rattlesnake bites were treated in Pennsyn vania in his time, says:—“ In general the first thing that was attended to, after a jier^ had been bitten by the rattlesnake, was to throw a tight ligatm-e above the part into wnic the poison had been introduced; at least this was the practice wherever the situaUon < • the wounded part admitted of such an application. The ■wound was next scarified, an. (o) Account of Indian Serpenta collected on the and Remarks on their KTcra) Poisons. Lxindo. Coromandel Coast, ike., togetlier with ExperimonU 179C. Pol.