WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. 475 ^vith considerable uneasiness; but if he stooped or drew in his breath forcibly he ex- perienced very severe pain. In all other respects, his general health and appearance were in as good a state os before the receipt of the injury, (pp. 404, 40o) ] a.—of wounds of the stomach. 539. The Stomach may be supposed to be injured from the depth and direction of the wound. The usual symptoms are vomiting, vomiting of blood, escape of the food, fixed pain in the region of the stomach, too-ether with anxiety, depression, and the other symptoms accompanying penetrating wounds of the belly. These symptoms are not, however, always demsive. If the external wound be large, a part of the stomach may protrude through it. 540. "Wounds of the Stomach are always very dangerous; as in other wounds of the intestinal canal, extravasation into the belly and inflamma- tion are to be dreaded. The danger is greater if the stomach be wounded when full of food than if empty. Wounds in the middle of the stomach are less dangerous than those in its curvatures. 541. Tlie treatment of wounds of the stomach generally agrees with that laid down for wounds of the intestines. If there be not vomiting after injury of a full stomach, according to some opinions, it should be emptied by an emetic, but others recommend this should not be done, for fear of increasing the wound and the extravasation in the belly. The patient must be treated on the most strict antiphlogistic plan; he must not feed by the mouth; his thirst must be alleviated with slices of lemon or Seville orange sprinkled with sugar; relief by stool must be pro- moted with softening clysters, and warm fomentations on the belly, if the sensibility permit. If severe spasmodic symptoms be present the simultaneous employment of opium in the clysters is indicated. If the food escape through the wound, it must be kept properly open, and the patient laid upon the wounded side. If the external wound be large, the wound of the stomach directly opposite, or the wounded part of the sto- mach protrude, a thread may be drawn through both edges of the wound of the stomach, and its ends allowed to hang out, in order therewith to bring the edges of the wound somewhat together, and to retain them properly to the wound in the walls of the belly; or the stitching may be employed according to the rules given for its use in wounds of the in- testines (1). After forty-eight hours the loop maybe withdrawn, because adhesion with the peritoneum has then taken place and extravasation into the belly is impossible. If a fistula remain the opening must be kept closed with a proper compressing apparatus (2). [(1) The following is a brief account of Scott’s case (a) of wounded stomach without protrusion, after which the patient recovered. Case 1.—C. T., aged twenty-five years, a seaman, was wounded March 31, 1784, by a small sword, which passed in between the second and third of the lower false ribs on the left side, and penetrated horizontally into the cavity of the belly to the extent of more than five inches. His countenance (half an hour afterwards when he was first seen) was collapsed, and covered with a cold sweat; pulse at the wrist : scarwly perceptible; constant hiccough, frequent retching and vomiting of bloo^ and a ! considerable discharge of blood and other fluids from the wound. Barley water had l^en given to drink, as he was very thirsty, but was thrown up immediately after passing I tne (esophagus, and effervescing mixture wdth some laudanum had no better effect, being tinged with blood. The retching continuing very violent, and the patient complaining of a lump, or dead weight as he called it, in his inside, he was desired to (o) Medical Communications, vol ii. p. 78.