MR. RENSHAW’S PUBLICATIONS. THE MOST COMPLETE SYSTEM of SURGERY EVER PUBLISHED. . 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, £3 0 0. CiiEHus’ System of SoncEay, translated from the German, and accompanied with additional Notes and Observations, by .Tohn F. South, late Professor of Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and Surgeon to St. Thomas’ Hospital. “ This System of Surgery is most extensive and comprehensive, and should be patronized by the Profession.”—Lancet. “The most learned and complete systematic treatise now extant. Tlie descriptions of surgical diseases, and indeed the wliole of tlie pathological department, are most valuable.”—Medical Journal. “Tiiis work supplies a desideratum long wanted in the profession.”— Medical Times. “ We earnestly recommend this work as the best and most compreliensive system of modern surgery.”—British and Foreign Review. SIMON’S PATHOLOGY. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. General Pathology, as conducive to the establishment of rational principles for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Disease. By John Simon, F.R.S., one-of the Surgeons of St. Thomas’ Hos- pital. Contents:—Diseases of the Blood—^Inflammation and its Products—Tumours—Cancer—Scrofula—Nervous Diseases— Evacuative Medicines in Relation to Humoral Pathology— Infective Diseases. “ Mr. Simon’s Lectures are elegantly written, and will be perused with advantage.”—Edinburgh Monthly Journal. “ We strongly advise our readers to peruse this work for themselves.”— London Journal of Medicine. ANDRAL’S CLINIQUE. 8vo. cloth, 25s. The Ci.iNiQUE Medicale; or Reports of Medical Cases by G. Andral: translated, with Observations from the Writings of the most distinguished Medical Authors, by D.Spillan, M.D., _ Fellow of the College of Physicians in Ireland. “ Wo strongly recommend all our young friends who wish to know what is most excellent m the modern pathology of Franco to lose no time in addin>^ ,1'*,of Medical authorities.’’—British and Foreinn Medical Remew. o “ Me recommend Dr. Spilian's translation to our readers.”—Lancet.