295 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. ( Vulnera absolute lethalia, Lat. ; Wunden ahsolut tbdtUche, Germ. ; * Plaies absoliiment mortelles^ Fr.) and accidentally mortal {Vulnera f per accidens lethalia, Lat. ; Wundenzufallig tbdtliche,^ Germ. JPlaies ,1 consecutivenient mortelles^'Ev.') In the foi'mer, cure is impossible, al- 1 though the precise period of death may be difficult to determine in the i latter, the mortality depends on accidental circumstances, which are . c grounded oti the individual condition of the patient, in the improper use, j or in the absence of artificial aid, and hi the complication of the diseases. ' Tliis division of wounds has reference simply to the position of the surgeon, . not to that of the medical jurist. To this, also, may be referred the ques- (> tion, whether any, or what, permanent injury {damnumpermanens^ will remain after the cure? 4. The structure of the tvounded part. Bleeding is free in vascular u parts. If the vascular trunks of a limb be injured, the circulation de- !• pends, after the arrest of the bleeding, upon the expansion and increased J: activity of vessels of the second and third order. If this do not take place, ji the part dies. If the artery be only slit, there remains, in most cases, an « aneurismal enlargement. If the principal nervous trunks of a part be 1 torn, the part becomes paralytic and wasted ; at least, it cannot be decided d whether and when the nerves will again become active. Injuries of nerves in general, and especially if the nerve be not perfectly divided, usually y produce severe symptoms, spasms, convulsions, and the like. Wounds of I bones are not in reality different from those of soft parts, except that, when ithe periosteum has become much affected, and suppuration has taken place, the latter is tedious, and the structure of the bone may become much al- tered. AVounds of glandular and secreting organs heal with difficulty, suppuration commonly takes place, and the pus is changed by mingling with the secreted fluids. AVounds of joints, especially of the larger ones, are always very dangerous. 5. AVounds which penetrate the cavities of our body are dangerous from inflammation, from collection in them of blood, pus, and so on ; and from the injury of some of the viscera which they contain. 6. Besides these, the mode of life of the wounded person, the following up of a proper plan of treatment, and the appearances accompanying a wound, are decisive as to its danger. 274. In the treatment of Wounds, it is especially necessary, the bleeding having been stanched, that all foreign bodies should be carefully removed. The cure is to be attempted according to the different character of the wound, by quick union, or by suppuration and cicatrization, and the symp- toms which may come on must be counteracted. 275. The most perfect knowledge of the form, depth, and direction of the wound, of the condition of the wounded parts, and of the presence or absence of foreign bodies, must be obtained by examination. A mere glance at a wound is commonly sufficient to distinguish the points just mentioned. The most favourable time for examining the wound is immediately after its 1 infliction, before inflammation has come on, as otherwise the examination is more difficult and painful. It is generally easy in cut wounds, but more I difficult in stabs and gun-shot wounds. In making the examination, the surgeon must be guided by his anatomical knowledge of the parts, the atti- ' tude in which the person was when wounded, the direction and violence with which the instrument penetrated, as well as the nature of the matter escaping from the wound, and the symptoms which ensued at the time. If,