GONORRHCEA, 156 . KO Hunter says, on this point:—“ In the gonorrhcea'the times of appearance are very different; I liave had reason to believe that in some the poison has taken effect in a/eio hours, wliile in others it has been six weeks;” however, “six, eight, ten, or twelve days would appear to be the most common period.” (p. 32.) Astley Cooi’ek says he has known gonorrhoea to “ occur within twenty-four hours after connexion; and sometimes a fortnight, or a longer time will elapse before it appears. I have known an instance in which it was delayed fourteen weelcs, in consequence, I believe, of the general indispo- sition of the patient.” (p. 189.) (2) “ The first symptom which takes place,” says Astley Cooper, “ is a pouting state of the lips of the urethra, arising from inflammation.” (p. 190.) (3) Hunter observes, that “there is often no pain till sometime after the appearance of the discharge, and other symptoms; and, in many gonorrhoeas, there is hardly any pain at all, even when the discharge is very considerable. ^ * There is generally, at this time, a greater fulness in the penis, and, more especially, in the glans, although it is not near so full as when erected, being rather in a state of half erection. Besides this fulness, the glans has a kind of transparency, especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skin is distended, being smooth and red, resembling a ripe cherry : this is owing to the reticular membrane being loaded with a quantity of extravasated serum, and the vessels being filled with blood.” (p. 46.) Travers (a) says, that “ heat in urining, titillation, tumefaction, which often precede the appearance of the discharge, even for days, may sometimes be removed by rest, pur- ging, and mucilaginous drinks, so that the inflammation is subdued before it reaches purulent secretion. Coition in this state infallibly produces discharge; sometimes with a full, thick, high-coloured discharge, there is neither heat, swelling, nor colour of the Lahia urethra. These symptoms, on the other hand, may be all considerable, with a thin and scanty discharge, and often without any heat. These differences are only to be explained by reference to the condition and susceptibility, local or general, of the person infected.” (p. 7.) (4) According to Hunter, “ When the disease attacks the urethra, it seldom extends further thau an inch and a-half, or two inches at most, within the orifice, which distance appears to be truly specific, and what I have called the specific extent of the inflamma- tion. * * * When the gonorrhoea (exclusive of the affections arising from sympathy) is not more violent than I have described, it may be called common or simple venereal gonorrhaa; but, if the patient is very susceptible of such irritation, or of any other mode of action which may accompany the venereal, then the symptoms are, in proportion, more violent. In such circumstances, we sometimes find the irritation and inflammation exceed the specific distance, and extend through the whole of the urethra.” (pp. 54, 5.) As to the actual seat of the discharge in the male. Hunter says:—“ As it would appear that there is hardly a sufficient surface of the urethra inflamed to give the quantity of matter that is often produced, especially when we consider that the inflammation in common goes no further than two or three inches from the external orifice, it is natural to suppose that the discharge is produced from other parts, the office of which is to form mucus for natural purposes, and which are, therefore, more capable of producing a great quantity upon slight irritations, which hardly rise to inflammation. These parts, 1 have observed, are the glands of the urethra. In many cases, where the glands have not been, after death, so much swelled as to be felt externally, and where I have had the opportu- nity of examining the urethra of those who have had this complaint upon them, I have always been able to discover that the ducts or lacunse leading from them, were loaded with matter, and were more visible than in their natural state ; I have observed, too, that the formation of the matter is not confined to these glands entirely, for the inner surface of the uretlira is commonly in such a state as not to be able to suffer the urine to pass without giving considerable pain; and, therefore, most probably, this internal membrane is also affected in such a manner as to secrete a matter. This discharge, in common cases, would seem not to rise much further back in tlie urethra than where the pain is felt, although it is commonly believed that it comes from the whole of the canal, and even from Cowper’s and the prostate glands, not excepting what are called the vesicula seminales.” (pp. 50, 51.) Astley Cooper asserts, tliat “ the cause of gonorrhoea is undoubtedly inflammation of the lacuna of the urethra, and particularly of the lacuna magna. The inflammation is of the erysipelatous kind; but there is no appearance of ulceration. If ulceration were produced, the membrane of the urethra would soon give way. It is merely a secretion from the mouths of the vessels; ulceration does take place in the lacunae, but not in the urethra itself.” [Cooper certainly does not here wish it inferred that this ulceration of (a) Observations on the I’athology of Venereal Affections. London, 1830. 8vo.