806 DISLOCATION OF THE SPLINT-BONE. 1087. The reduction of these dislocations is not usually accompanied ' with difficulty. Sufficient extension of the leg is made, and then the ., displaced joint-end of tlie shin-bone is pressed into its place, one liand grasping it, whilst tlie other has hold of the lower end of tlie thigh-bone. After tlie reduction, inflammation must be prevented or got rid of, ami the union of the ligaments effected, by strict antiphlogistic treatment, and by keeping the limb quiet, fastening it up in a pair of splints. When all swelling and pain have subsided the limb may be cautiously moved. If the joint remain weak, volatile rubbings must be employed, and a knee- - band used for some time to give support. If the inffammation be severe, anchylosis, suppuration, gangrene, and so on, may take place, and the • treatment must be guided according to the rules laid down for wounds of joints. If the joint-ends of the bones be thrust through the skin, there - may be such destruction, that immediate amputation is requisite. Single-m cases in which the preservation of the limb is possible cannot refute these <i principles. If the ligaments connecting the semi-lunar cartilages with the shin-bone be relaxedj(?i they may by external violence, by pushing with the toes of the outward-turned foot aud 4 so on, remove the semi-luuar cartilages from their position. At the same time severe '4 pain, swelling, incapability of stretching out the foo^ without much alteration of form f» in the knee come on. The natural position of the cartilages is most certainly restoivd, when the leg is bent back as much as possible, by which the pressure of the thigh-bone on 4 the semi-luuar cartilages is removed, and they return to their place, when the leg is ,4 extended. The weakness of the joints is to be removed, by volatile rubbings and the 4 like, and the recurrence of this accident prevented, by a properly applied knee-band 4 (Astlev Cooper.) i| WcTZER (a) observed a congenital bending forwards of both legs, depending on dis- location at the knee-joint. Kleberg (6) describes a congenital dislocation of the left f| knee forwards, where, with the thigh extended, the leg was bent forward at the knee, ri and lay obliquely upwards in such way, that the points of the toes touched the right 4 side of the belly; the legs could be easily returned to their natural position 5 they, how- -i ever, immediately resumed their previous position, whilst the child himself had not any voluntary influence over their movements. Bending the leg back against the thigh to i| an obtuse angle, and fixing it in this position, by a thin cloth passed round the middleof I the thigh and leg, in a short time restored the natural position and mobility of the leg. f XIII.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE SPLINT-BONE. (Luxatio Fibula, Lat.; Ferrenkung des Wadenbeines, Germ.; Luxation du Perond, Fr.) | Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 375. | 1088. The splint-hone may be dislocated at its upper or lower end, > ; forwards or backwards. This can always be readily distinguished, as the r| head of the bone can be felt if there be not any considerable swelling. In order to reduce this dislocation, it is only necessary to press the dis--j located head into its place, and to fix it there with compresses and bandage8^'| The dislocation of the upper end may be accompanied with fracture of | the shin-bone, in which with the reduction of the fracture follows al«>«| that of the dislocation. Not unfrequently, owing to relaxation of the | li»aments, dislocation of the upper end of the splint-bone takes place; | its reduction in this case is easy, but just as speedily does the displacement'I recur. The bone is to be kept in place by rest, and by fixing it with | bandages; the weakness of the joint should be souglit to be removed by| friction, blistering, and tiie like. | (o) Mui.i.er‘3 Archiv. flir Anatomic unit Physiologic, IffiS, pt. ir. p. 3S5. : (fc) llaraburgerjScitschrift, vol. vi. pt. ii.