WOUNDS OF 482 tortuosity of the urinary stream.” After about one hundred and thirty days from its in- fliction, or in the flrst week in December, the wound was completely healed, and he was sent to the convalescent depot, where he remained six days, during which the uneasy sensations of the urinary organs arose to actual pain. For this he treated himself with getting drunk, and on the evening of the 8lh December, being attacked “ with an irre- sistible desire to make water, after some severe straining, in which he was sensible of an obstruction about the neck of the bladder, which, for full half an hour, prevented the passage of a single drop of urine, he shot out of the urethra, with a convulsive jerk, a substance coiled up, somewhat in the shape of a fragment of a large bougie, nine lines in length, and three in breadth, the ejection of which was followed by a profuse flow of urine, passed without any muscular exertion, and succeeded by instantaneous relief. On examination of the ejected substance, it proved to be two bits of cloth, consisting of his jacket and its lining, corresponding with the size of the shot-hole. The texture was unaltered, but the colour of the red piece was much faded; it had neither any urinous smell, nor was any calcareous concretion observable upon it. * * * * Not the slightest trace of the ball could be discovered, either by the sound or by the finger introduced into the anus.” (pp. 423, 24.) (2) The ball extracted in the following case is also in the Museum at St. Thomas’s. Case.—M. M., aged forty years, a healthy sailor, was admitted into the hospital under the care of the elder Cline. Feb. 20. 1812. It appears that in July, 1811, during an attempt to cut out a schooner, he received a shot in the right hip ; the ball entered the dorsum ilii, obliquely down- wards, within about two and a half inches of the sacrum and an inch above the ischiatic notch, whilst he was sitting pulling at an oar, which he continued to do for some time after. The wound bled profusely, and in a few minutes after he had great inclination to make water, which was done with great difficulty and pain, only coming away by drops On the following day he was carried to an hospital at Cadiz, where for three or four days he continued to discharge his urine only in drops, and accompanied with burning pain, when retention of urine took place which remained for four days, occa- sionally being relieved by the catheter; at the end of which time the cause was ex- plained by a piece of shirting and of his trousers having made their way up to the ori- fice of the urethra, closely rolled up to about the size of a goose-quill, and two inched . in length. Upon extracting this, by means of a pair of dressing forceps, the retentioa of urine was completely removed. Durjng the time of retention, and then only, did . urine mixed with bloody discharge pass out at the wound of the ilium. For several I days after the extraction of the wadding there was a discharge from the urethra of! thick, ropy, mucous substance, mixed with blood. The urine passed freely, but with i heat and pain referred to the end of the penis, and a frequent desire to void his urine. . These symptoms continued, except that latterly there was difficulty in passing his water. . The wound had healed about a month previous to his admission into St. Thomas’s, having tj a stiflhess and pain in the motions of the limb. His health was not materially affected. 4 At the operation the bullet was found encysted on the left side of the bladder, much n flattened, and having a small portion of bone adhering to it. He recovered very quickly d after the operation.] F.—OF WOUNDS OF THE WOMB. 550. If the womb be unimpregnated it cannot easily be wounded with- out wounding other parts, the treatment of which is of greater conse- - quence; but if an injury occur to the impregnated womb, it is always > connected with severe bleeding and the danger of a premature delivery. The bleeding is' in general not stopped till delivery has taken place, which h we must therefore attempt to hasten by breaking the membranes. Should r the wound of the womb be so large, that the child partially or entirely' enters the cavity of the belly, the wound must be enlarged and the child taken out. [“ The fibrous, and as it were, cartilaginous resistance of the tissue of the womb, whilst empty,” observes Duparcque (a), “ the small size of the organ, its mobility, and its situation within a bony cavity efficiently protect it from all violence, either external or internal, capable of aftecting the integrity of its walls. The development of this organ, or rather the gradual previous distension of its walls, becomes then the primary cause, (n) Ilistoire complete des Ruptures et Dccliirures de I'Uterus, du Vagin etde la Pcrinec. Pari.*, 1S36.8*o.