506 TREATMENT OF ■when that is quite dry, brushes over its -whole external surface, also the upper border and part of its internal surface with varnish; then dries it in the sunshine or by artificial heat, and, two hours after, repeats the varnishing. Over such bandage the ' urine passes without in the least softening or disturbing it; and Tavignot says it has the further advantage of being removed without cutting the bandage, merely by putting the limb into warm water, which insinuating itself dissolves the starch, and allows the roller to be easily taken oflF.—J. F. S.] 584. This (the Simple Contentive') apparatus is sufficient in transverse fractures, and in such as are not very oblique. But if the fracture be very oblique, this apparatus will not, in the least, prevent the displacement of the ends of the fracture, as it affords them no support, and therefore they are always readily displaced by the action of the muscles. This especially happens in fractures of the lower limbs, where in order to counteract the contractions of the muscles, a continued extension of the limb by means of particular contrivances is most proper. It must, however, be remarked that the extending force, so far as possible distributed over the limb, should be applied above and below the neighbouring joints, and increased or di- minished at pleasure, as otherwise inflammation, excoriation, and mortifica- tion, are produced by the pressure. 585. The position of the limb during extension and counter-extension, ( par. 582,) as well as during the cure, should always be that in w'hich the ■ muscles are most relaxed. Therefore in fractures in the middle of tubular ■ hones, the straight position is to be preferred ; but in fractures in the neigh- ■ hourhood of joints, the half-bent position, because, as the flexor muscles are • attached to the bones above and below the joints, they always drag in the ■ direction in which they bend, and the two ends of the fracture are best * kept close together if the joint be retained in a half-bent position. The * exceptions which occur in reference to this rule will be noticed in the ■ special treatment of fractures. Only when the fracture extends into the I joint, and stiffness is feared, must the limb have that position during the ! cure, which, should stiffness take place, will least hinder its motions ; there- -'i fore in the lower limbs the straight, in the upper limbs the half-bent, which v also is the most suitable, as in that only can the arm be properly fixed. [The rule laid down by Chelius in the beginning of tliis paragraph, in regard lo o putting the limb in a half-bent posture, so as to relax the muscles, is perfectly right; but the exception he makes at its conclusion is equally wrong. There is no reason to expect;', stiff joints to occur more frequently in the lower limbs than in the upper ; and, indeed, : experience proves that they rather more commonly happen in the upper than in the - lower limbs. But in the latter, a bent posture is much preferable to an extended one, as,- the patient walks infinitely better with a bent knee than with a straight one. Stiff joints :• are, however, except when the fracture extends into a joint, and even then not alwaj"S, - rather uncommon. I admit that, generally, in fractures of the lower limbs, I prefer the straight position when the fracture is of the thigh, not, however, in regard to any con- sideration of the possible stiffness of the knee-joint, but because I believe it answers the.- purpose equally well as the bent position, and gives the patient the opportunity of vary- ■ ing his posture, which is not a trifling advantage and comfort to him.—J. F. S.] 586. When the apparatus is applied, and the limb put in a proper posi-: tion, care must be taken that it is neither neglected nor displaced' From' lime to time it must be moistened with the resolvent wash, and the bandages • tightened when they yield (1). When the apparatus becomes loose (mostly about the fifth or sixth day) it must be re-applied, and as often as it does not keep firm, at which times the broken ends of the bone must be always brought into their proper position, if they have become displaced. The general treatment requires attention only for the first few days, and should be antiphlogistic. In common cases after proper arrangement no peculiar