ATONIC ULCERS; rank of natural secreting organs, derivatives by issues, and so on, must be established before tliey are perfectly scarred. If in the sudden suppression of the secretion of an ulcer symptoms of metastasis ensue the ulcer should be, as soon as possible, again brought to discharge by using acrid irritating remedies. In an ulcer, where for these reasons a cure cannot and, dare not be undertaken, we are restricted to proper clean- liness, and the getting rid of local complication, for the purpose of dimU nishing the inconvenience which the patient suffers. Second Chapter.—OF ULCERS IN PARTICULAR, IN REFERENCE TO THE CAUSES WHICH PRODUCE AND KEEP THEM UP. I.—OF ATONIC ULCERS. Underwood, Mich., A Treatise upon Ulcers of the Legs, Scrofulous Sores, &c. London, 1783. 8vo. Ib., Surgical Tracts on Ulcers of the Legs, &c. London, 1788. 8vo. Meytler, F. H., Abhandlungen iiber die alten GeschwUre der unteren Gliedmassea* Wein, 1793. 4to. Home, E., Practical Observations on the Treatment of Ulcers of the Legs; with observations on varicose veins and piles. London, 1801. 8vo. Baynton, Thos., a new descriptive Account of a new Method of treating Ulcers of the Legs. London, 1797. 8vo. OsLHOF, A., Untersuchungen und Beobactungen iiber die chronischen Geschwui^ mit besonderer Ruchsicht auf die sogennanten alten Schaden an den interen Gliedmassaii Lemge, 1804. 760. Atonic Ulcers (Ulcera atonica^ Lat.; atonischen Geschtetire, Germ.; Ulceres atoniques, Fr.) are kept up by general or local weakness, which is manifested by lax fibre and flabbiness. They are mostly situated in those parts, of which the living activity, under natural circumstances, is not very great. Hence are they most frequent on the feet, of which the left is much more commonly affected than the right. Certain occupa- tions which interfere with the flow of blood in the lower extremities, and are connected with continued standing, are favourable thereto. They are either produced by an external injury, or they may originate in inde- pendent patches, in which case there appears at some one single spot redness and slight swelling; the skin becomes thin and breaks ; the ulcer enlarges, is more or less painful, and usually produces the local and general ciianges which have been mentioned. These ulcers are commonly accompanied with oedematous or varicose swelling of the feet, or with callous edges. They are mostly of a torpid character, though they may, from accidental causes, assume an erythetic, or inflammatory condition. 761. The prognosis is guided according to the general circumstances already laid down {par. 750) ; and it is to be especially noted, whether the patient can or cannot diminish the occasional causes. 762. The treatment of these ulcers, whicli seems to me most satis- factory, is the following:—If the ulcer be without peculiar complication, and if it have a good appearance, I make use, with rest and suitable support, of frequent bathings with lukewarm decoctions of chamomile flowcR> and compression with sticking plaster, in the manner to be prescribed.