514 TREATMENT OF the external wound, and this can only be effected by steadying the broken bone, as well as the soft parts, by the immediate application of the apj>a- ratus ; which done, the limb is to be put into the position determined on, and so propped by pillows, or fixed by bandages to convenient parts of the bedstead, that all motion should be guarded against. The wound now alone remains to be dressed; and Astley CooPEa says:—“ If there be a slight haemorrhage, do not be searching for a small vessel, but place a little lint over the wound, and by making gentle pressure on it you may easily suppress the haemorrhage. Next bring the integuments as neatly over the parts as you can, and dip a dossil of lint in the blood and put i: on the surface of the wound, which irritates the least of any application 1 know of, and appears to approach the nearest of any other to the naturju covering of the parts. In this way the wound unites by the adhesive i)ro< cess, and the union of the bone goes on as in simple fracture, and is curec in one-fourth part of the time which would be required if the wound weni allowed to be filled by granulations.” (p. 646.) I must confess I prefe* some slips of sticking plaster to the dossil of lint over the wound, fol as it rarely happens that the surface of the wound immediately unites b’l adhesion, although the parts below may, the oozing serum, or the pm which speedily forms, is confined under the hard crust of the lint, am certainly produces a sore, which will be deep, according to the quantity confined ; whilst, on the other hand, the fluid soon manages to find its wai out between the interstices of the plaster, and thus this inconvenience i i avoided. It is also advisable, in compound fracture, to cover the fractured limni with a piece of linen dipped in an evaporating lotion of spirits of winc< liquor of acetate of ammonia and water, a fourth of each of the formew and two-fourths of the latter ; and the linen should be re-w'etted by gentlri squeezing a sponge over it as often as it dries. For the more effectuat cooling of the limb, a cradle should be put over it, over which merely t j sheet is to be thrown. And this is no trifling part of the treatment, for i i as not unfrequently happens, a heap of bed-clothes be put upon the cradhi on the plea of the patient feeling cold, all evaporation is put a stop to, tbl limb is put in a steam-bath, and might as well be wrapped up in a poultio j The patient’s feelings as to temperature should not be overlooked; th; body and other limbs should be covered so as to render him comfortabli warm, but the injured limb must only have the cradle and a singj sheet. Even if the wound in the skin be torn and its edges shreddy, a conditlc.' far from uncommon, it is always best to attempt its union by adhesion, f<‘ though the whole may not unite, very commonly a large portion of it wil and the danger of the injury will be proportionally diminished. But if the wound be much bruised, together with the tearing, there • little hope of union by adhesion, and therefore either a poultice aloi i should be at once applied, or two or three adhesive straps apart and; j poultice over them, which must be changed three or four times a day. i In those cases where adhesion is attempted, the dressings should not I i removed unless the patient complain of pain in the wound, either accor t panied or not with surrounding inflammation. If the case go on well, the is rarely uneasiness till after four or five days; the dressings should fh< be removed, after having been moistened by the application of a wet tice for a few hours ; and according to the appearance of the wound, i