6oO SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF BONES. non-existence of the ■virus, there are certain regular characteristic symptoms occurring as necessary and sure consequences after the primary infection, and which are the re- sult of chancre, under one of the forms already mentioned, or the product of inheri- tance, which military Surgeons can only deny from want of a proper field of observa- tion. When we have followed the pus of a chancre, in its penetration into the economy, if 1 may be so allowed to express it, we have seen that whether it was merely by im- bibition of the cellular tissue, to whatever depth it might reach, it still preserved its characteristic property, the capability of inoculating; that it was the same with the afi'erent lymphatics, from the chancre to the first ganglion, in which they terminated, and that beyond this point, where first began the mixture with the circulation and other organic matters by this kind of ganglionary digestion, which takes place in the lymphatic system, the pus underwent a transformation which, without depriving it of its specificity as regards the symptoms it produces in the economy, takes from it the power of inoculating: that it was only by virtue of this modification that this sypAt- iitic temperament could be established, to give place more slowly to the diathesis for the development of secondary symptoms: that without traversing the lympliatic system this result was the strict consequence of venous absorption ; the symptoms of constitutional pox not requiring for their manifestation, the passage of the virus by the lymphatics and the previous production, in all cases, of buboes.” And hence he ar- rives at the conclusions, “ First, That though one symptom does not inoculate, it is not therefore to be said that it is not syphilitic, because the virus modified by venous absorption and susceptible of poisoning the economy, loses this property whilst it pre- serves alone that of propagating by inheritance. Secondly, That whenever a symptom, whatever its seat and apparent form, inoculates, it is necessarily the product of direct contagion and not the result of general infection depending on absorption from one to another part, and does not actually indicate the venereal temperament or in common terms constitutional pox.” (p. 74-7; Fr. Edit., p. 162-67.)] 823. The Syphilitic Affection of the Sony System is manifested by nightly pains, which are boring and gnawing, and situated, especially in tubular bones, and in such bones as are covered with least soft parts, as tlie shin-, arm-, breast-, collar-, and skull-bones. These bones, especially those of tlie shin and skull, swell up, in which latter case the bony swell- ings usually precede or are accompanied with severe head-ache. The bony swellings are often soft, and formed by a jelly-like mass poured out beneath the periosteum, (Gummata^ often hard and immovable, {Nodi, Tophi, Exostoses,) and frequently contain a chalky substance. Not unfrequently the bones swell very considerably ; inflammation often takes place, and expansion of the medullaiy cavity of the tubular bones, (Spina ventosa.) If these bony swellings inflame and run on to ulceration, dangerous eating away of the bone {Caries syphilitica, Lat. ; K?iochenfrass, Germ.) occurs. But commonly by the destruction of the soft parts and of the periosteum the bones are laid bare to a great extent, killed, {Necrosis,) and thrown off in larger or smaller pieces {Exfoliates.) Very frequently also in general Lues inflammation of the joints and its consequences take place. 824. If the Lues have advanced considerably, hectic fever, complete disoi’der of the digestion, exhaustion, and death, may be produced by the tormenting pain, and by the great loss of the juices from the suppurating parts. _ . . 825. Syphilitic symptoms are subject to various modifications, which do not depend on a variety of the syphilitic poison, but on the constitu- tion and age of the patient, on the mode of its reception into the bod), on climate and other circumstances, on the existence of other diseases, but perhaps also on a qualitative change of the poison, which it suffers in in- sufficient treatment. The stronger and more powerful the person is, ^ much the more speedy in its course and destructive is the syphilis. " warm climates the general symptoms of syphilis are milder, it attac s rather the skin and its processes and the cellular tissue; in cold climates,