PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 439 the after-course of the wound a collection of pus takes place and difficulty of breathing and so on occurs, the wound must be enlarged, the bleeding stanched, or a proper opening made for the escape of the pus. Bruises and shot-toounds of the coverings of the chest may produce large outpourings of blood in the external parts, inflammation of the pleura and lungs, difficult breathing, spitting of blood, and so on, and require a strict antipldogistic treatment, repeated bleedings, and cold applications to the chest. . 479. Penetrating Wounds of the Chest ( Vulnera Phoracis penetrantia) either simply open the cavity of the pleura, or at the same time wound the viscera lying within the chest. Their danger depends generally on the bleeding which comes out of the walls of the chest, or from the viscera contained in its cavities, from compression of the lungs and heart by the collected fluids, from inflammation of the viscera of the chest, and their passages. 480. We ascertain that a wound of the breast actually penetrates into the cavity of the chest, or even injures the viscera contained therein, by the depth and direction to which the injuring instrument penetrates ; by the careful examination of the wound with the finger or with the probe, the patient being put in the same position as at the injury ; by the influx and efflux of the air through the wound in inspiration and expiration ; by an air-swelling {emphysema^ which forms around the wound ; by difficult respiration, in consequence of the air which enters the cavity of the chest compressing the lung and preventing the flow of the blood. In simultaneous injury of the lungs the patient suffers deeply fixed pain ; breathing, espe- cially inspiration, is very difficult; a frothy, pale-red blood pours in an un- broken stream out of the wound (1) ; the patient spits blood (the absence of spitting of blood is, however, no proof of the lungs being uninjured) ; sometimes also there are symptoms of internal bleeding and compression of the lungs, which are hereafter to be considered. The distinction of these wounds is more or direction (2). less difficult according to their various size and Examination with the prohe is, in most cases, illusive and uncertain; it may be very injurious, from the irritation connected with it, and is, in most cases useless, because the diagnosis is determined by other symptoms; and in a simple penetrating wound scarcely any other treatment is employed than in a wound that does not penetrate. The ' examination by injection, as advised by many, is still more unsatisfactorj-, and always ■ dangerous. Tlie air passes freely in and out only when the wound is direct. The lungs do not always collapse, or fall together, when the cavity of the chest is opened, hut remain in contact with the pleura costalis, which, in some cases, may depend on adhesion between : the lungs and the pleura, but in others, is not to be explained. The opening, therefore, of both cavities of the chest is not directly mortal. Williams concludes from his experiments, 1st, that a lobe of the lung when exposed to the air does not collapse, so long as the functions of the other lobe and of the assistant organs continue undisturbed in respiration ; 2nd, that one lobe of the lung possesses a peculiar power of moving for some time, entirely independent of the diaphragm and intercostal muscles, when, indeed, the other lung respires: the origin of this power Williams cannot determine; 3rd, i that a sound lung recovers its natural expansive power when the pressure of the exter- nal air is removed; 4th, that although the external air passes freely and uninterruptedly k at the same time through tubes of the same size into the cavities of the chest, the lungs, I however, do not collapse, if the assistant respiratory organs have their activity still unre- 1 strained; .5th, that a heakhy lung never completely fills the cavity of the chest, at least S >“ natural respiration. In my experiments on dogs, I always found great collapse of ♦ the lungs, and the motions which 1 noticed in them seemed to me less dependent on a aistinct expansive power in the lungs themselves, than much rather on elevation and