[ 669 ] \ ^ 2.—TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS WITHOUT MERCURY. i 856. The various fliseased conditions which have been considered in- 1 compatible with the use of mercury, as great debility, with a disposition of J tlie juices to deficient mixture, suppuration of internal organs, aneurisms, il scorbutic diathesis, have, on the one hand, as also the evils ascribe to 4 the use of mercury, have on the other, led to the proposal of the various ^ modes of treatment without mercury. To these belong, the sudorific de- Sjj coctions of tlie radix sarsce, carieis arenarice, chince, astragali ex scapi, 1 a/id barda/ice, of tlie ligniwi guiaiaci, cortex mezerei, stipites dulcarnarcB .xnd green walnut shells. Pollini’s decoction, the rob anti-syphilitique of L.vffbcteor, tlie sarsaparilla cure of St. Marie, (drank like mineral water,) Vigoroux’s drink, the hunger cure of Osborn and Strove, the volatile alkalies, (Bernard’s Tinctura anti-syphilitica,) various an- timonial preparations, the acids, especially muriatic acid, gold, especially its muriate (1) ; hydriodate of potash, and various other remedies. These modes of treatment were, for the most part, less destined for the primary, than for the secondary and older symptoms of the venereal disease, espe- cially for those where much mercury had been already used without effect; or where, on account of the state of the constitution, its use could not be borne. The greater number of these remedies had merely ephe- meral reputation, and could not supplant mercury. See my opinion already given upon Zittmann’s decoction, in whicli the greater ■jumber of these modes of treatment have been more fully mentioned, and their effects compared. Gold, first substituted for mercury by Pitcairn, but especially introduced by Chres- riEN, was as gold filings, gold powder, oxide of gold, and muriate of gold, (Chres- tien’s salt of gold,) recommended in primary and secondary syphilitic affections; t increased the appetite, raised the pulse and heat, produced thirst, burning of the gums, salivation, (of a milder character without smell, without ulcers, and not exhausting IS when mercury is used,) febrile re-action, sweating, increased secretion of urine. It :alled forth the syphilitic symptoms previously suppressed, and the recovery when it look place was permanent. The effect is greater in using the salt, less in the use of ihe oxide, and weakest with the powder. In an irritable state it could not be employed. 3f the gold powder, the first grain was divided into twelve, the second into eleven, the ihird into ten, and the fourth into nine parts ; it was used so many days as there were larts into which the medicine had been divided, and it was rubbed into the tongue, ihe ^ms, or the sensible parts of the face. In buboes and very painful ulcers, ."ubbing in the powder or salts of gold was effected with cerate. Very numerous ohser- eations show that the effect of the gold against syphilis was much less and more uncer- lain than Chrbstien and NiELhad held: in our climate, large doses (according to my jxperience) are required to bring about the before-mentioned results. In irritable con- stitutions gold is a dangerous remedy (a). Ricord (6) treated in 1824 of the use of iodine in gonorrhoea and bubo; Eusrbe de Salle is fond of it in hard swellings of the testicles, and also Lallemand, Biett, ind Pailland; but especially Wallace (c), Robert Williauis, M. D., Judd {d), Tyrrell (e), Ebers (/), Von Hasselberg and others {g) have used the hydriodide (a) CiiRK»TiF.N, Methode iatraleptique Paris, 18l4. Second Edit. Gozzt, Sopral’ usodialcuniremedii auriflcinelle Malattie Veneree annotation! teoretico-praticUe. dologna, 1817. Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales,—Art., fatrnleptujue. Percy ; in Journal Complementaire du Diet, des Sciences Medicales. Oct., 1818. Oduelius; in Hufeland's Journal, vol. xliv. Deppecii, above cited. (i) Journal Complement,, vol. xix. (o) Wallace, above cited, (dl Judd, A practical Treatise on Urethritis and Syphilis. London, 1836, y:) Tyrhell, On the u.se of Iodine in Syphilis, lodin, gr. 4i potass, iod. gr. syr. papav. 3iv. aq. destill, ^viij. Ft. mist,; cocli. duo ter die sumend. CP) EaERs, Ueber Anwendung des Kali hydrojod. gegensecundare Lustseuclie; in med. Veriarzeit- ung in Preussen, 1836, 5 October. Casper’s Wochenschrift,