461 THE BELLY WITH PROTRUDED INTESTINE. seeiii^" that there is notliing between the director and the wall of tiie belly, then drawn down witli tlie otlier fingers of the same hand, and a blunt- ended bistoury introduced with tlie right hand on the groove of the director, and forming an acute angle with it, as deep as the enlargement of the wound requires; after which ihe director and bistoury are to be witlidrawn together. The return of the protruded parts is to be effected according to the previous rules. If the girthing be so tight that no di- rector can be introduced, the intestine must be pressed down with tlie left hand, bywliich the upper angle is freed, and the fore finger of the left hand, with its nail upwards, is to be directed into it, upon wliich first the skin, and then tlie muscles and aponeurosis are to be cautiously divided ; and having come to the peritoneum, a director may be introduced, upon which it also may be divided : the intestine may, however, often be returned witliout doing the latter. 519. If the protruded intestine be highly inflamed, and bluish red, but if its gloss and firmness are not yet lost, it must be returned as quickly as possible, because only thereby, and with a simultaneous antiphlogistic treatment, can the passage to mortification be prevented. But if the intes- tine be actually mortified, it must be treated as will be mentioned in treating of mortified ruptures. 520. AVhen the protruded caul is healthy, and the wound sufficiently large, it must also be returned with the moistened fore fingers of both hands info the cavity of the belly, after having first been washed with lukewarm water, if fouled with sand and the like. If inflammation have already commenced in the caul, it must not be returned. If the caul be tightly grasped, the wound must be enlarged, and the replacement effected as already de- scribed. But if the protruded caul be much bruised, and partially disor- ganized, suppuration would take place after its return, and we should have to dread dangerous inflammation of the peritoneum from the presence of a portion of the caul so much altered. It should tlierefore be left out, and covered with a compress steeped in a decoction of marshmallows. The same practice is to be pursued when the caul is gangrenous; the advice given in this case, to spread out the caul, to cut off the mortified parts with scissors, and to tie the vessels before returning it, is in most cases useless, be- cause already has the protrusion formed adhesions about its whole circum- ference. If a small piece of the caul protrude through a narrow opening at the upper part of the belly, and the reduction be impossible without en- larging the wound it may also be left to nature ; it unites with the edges of the wound, is covered with granulations, and prevents a rupture, is thrown off, or gradually recedes into the belly (a). But if the protruded caul be of large size it must always be returned, because it may contain part of an intestine, or its fastening in such an unnatural position may cause painful symptoms of tightness at the stomach (5). Ligature of the caul is question- able. When the caul protrudes with intestine, and the enlargement of the wound is necessary, this must always be done at the lower end of the wound, although the director be used. Dupuytren (c) held most advisable the practice of leaving the caul protruding, because thereby its bruising and tearing is prevented, which, in a small wound, cannot he otherwise ; and he did not enlarge the wound, which always increases the danger of rupture. All other modes of practice, as being accompanied with great detriment, should Chirurgie Militaire, Edit, par S.\nson et Beoin, Paris, 1822, vol. ii. p. (4) Sabatier, Medecine Opctatoire, Nouv. (c) lb. p. 138.