AND OF THE COLLAR-BONE. 777 g the hinder end ; by a particular rustling, (which is not to be confused witli tliat from fractured rib or from emphysema,) which is perceived on !the movements of tlie body and ribs by the practitioner, or by the patient himself; by a yielding of the parts covering tlie hinder end of the rib; by a depression where the head of the rib should be found, and by motion of the hind end on pressure of the front end. It is accompanied with cougli, difficult respiration, severe pain, and other symptoms, as in frac- turai ribs {par. 627.) 1020. To effect reduction, the patient should be placed with his chest upon a firm pillow, so that the front end of the dislocated rib may be pressed backwards, and then the vertebra above and below the dislocation is to be pressed down. The rib must be kept in place, by a thick com- press placed at the front end and upon the spinal column, and properly fastened with a chest bandage. If the object cannot be thus attained, it has even been advised to open the cavity of the chest, and with the finger or with a hook to bring the rib into its place. No one should be seduced to such a practice. It is most proper in every case to proceed, as in frac- ture of the ribs, to prevent the motions of the chest, with a broad bandage, and to countei'act the other symptoms by proper means. 1021. The cartilages of the upper false and lower true ribs may be separated in violent bending backwards of the body, in which the liga- ments are torn where the under cartilage overlaps the upper. At this part projection and depression are observed, the patient feels pain, and the breathing is somewhat disturbed. The natural position of the carti- lage can be restored, if the patient inspire deeply and bends backwards, whilst some pressure is made on the projecting cartilage. The treatment is the same as in fracture of this cartilage {par. 629.) Astley Cooper (a) has noticed dislocation of the cartilage most frequently at the iixth, seventh, and eighth rib, from the breast-bone and the end of the rib, not unfre- juently in children, as consequent on general weakness. V.-OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE COLLAR-BONE. {Luxatio ClaviculcE, Lat.; Verrenhmg des Schlusselheines, Germ.; Luxation de la Clavicule, Fr.) 1022. Dislocatio?i of the Collar-bone is much more rare than fracture, ind may be of the sternal end or the scapular end of the bone. 1023. It is generally held that the sternal end of the collar-bone may be lislocatedbackwards, and upwards. In this dislocation, if the leparation of the joint-surfaces be only rather considerable, the tendinous ■trengthening fibres, the interclavicular ligament, and perhaps frequently ■he fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscles seem to be torn. In dislocation/orwarrfs, which is the most common, and depends on ■iolent pressing backwards or inwards of the shoulders, a projection is )bserved on the fore and upper part of the breast-bone, which subsides • vhen the shoulder is pressed outwards; the shoulder stands deeper and ftnore inwards; the head is inclined towards the ailing side; the movement '■)f the ai'm is interfered with and painful; if the shoulder be raised, the Jtrominence subsides ; if the shoulder be depressed, the prominence rises up • owards ihe neck. The dislocation is frequently incomplete, the front only ^•f the capsule being torn, and the bone but little projecting. In disloca- • (a) Above cited, p. 537.