402 ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. fit, which was followed by incomplete paralysis of the left side. His liml)s were shrunk • his face pale, his eye peculiarly wild, his countenance peevish and anxious. He was restless and irritable, and when spoken to he would only scream out, “ my head aches,” putting his hand at the same time to his forehead. The scalp was hot, but the surfSs generally cool; the pupils especially the right, much dilated; pulse small and 120. lie could not move either of the left limbs; the motions were very fetid, and passed in. voluntarily, as did also the urine. He pointed to what he wanted, rather than asked i for it. His head was ordered to be shaved; leeches and cold lotion to be applied. Chalk ; mixture to check the action of his bowels, and a drachm of mercurial ointment to be i rubbed in nightly. The leeches were repeated on the next day. Nov. 2.—The pain i in the head still severe; but he moves his left side more freely. On the .^ith his gum*., were affected by the mercury; the headache only at intervals, and the heat of the ^Ip . diminished ; a blister was put on the occiput. A week after he was capable of retainiim \ both stools and urine, and the powers of motion were improved; but the headache was < very severe; the pupils dilated and insensible to light; pulse still quick and small, and i the surface quickly cooling when exposed. The mercurial friction was now left oS. t Another blister was applied in the course of the week, and on the 19t/i he was ordered ^ dec. cinch, jjss. acid. mur. tTIviij. t. d. A puffiness soon after began to appear above the t cicatrix, and extended to the left eyelid; and on the 26<A distinct fluctuation being felt, t, a lancet was passed into it, and blood flowed freely, as from opening a vein, without any y pus, but after a minute ceased spontaneously. A deeper wound was then made, and d about half-an-ounce of cheesy matter escaped. A poultice was applied, and a dose of * calomel given. A slight discharge of pus followed, but in three or four days the wound J healed. He continued still very irritable ; but the headache varied, and when most violent ■ the pupils were dilated. On the 18t/i Dec. pus was again discharged from the forehead, < and also at the left angle of the jaw; the bowels were much relaxed; he gradually 1 sunk and died on the 31st. Examination.—The scalp was found to form the fronti boundary of the frontal sinuses, their external table being entirely absorbed; but therei was little pus. The inner table was almost perforated in many places, and completely! in one, but there was not any pus between it and the dura mater, which was vascnlmjfi especially over the sinuses. The longitudinal sinus was full of pus, and lined with or-1 ganised lymph; both the lateral, the inferior longitudinal, and inferior petrosal sinnsen were also distended with pus; in the right lateral was a hard plug of lymph at the part i where it turned to the temporal bone, and the left was filled with lymph to the laccrateti hole; the orifices of many of the veins into the longitudinal sinus, and to some distant^ from it, were filled with pus: the pia mater was loaded with blood. A small absce* was on the surface of the right hemisphere, near to the longitudinal sinus, but not com-: municating with it. In the left lobe of tbe cerebellum was a large abscess. Tbert. were also abscesses in the lungs, one in the left kidney, and a few small ulcers on theV mucous membrane of the ileum and colon. ■ Prochaska (a) has also mentioned a similar case of a boy struck on the head by thnjl handle of a winch, whilst drawing water from a well. He received a slight woundhfl which soon healed; but he suffered much headache, became dull and heavy, and aften| some weeks was attacked occasionally with convulsions of the whole body, wbiofcjl ceased spontaneously. Rather more than four months after he fell suddenly into th* same state, and was brought to the hospital in that condition a week after. Under ment he began to recover the use of the paralytic hand and foot, and both to see an<i talk better. After some days, a soft, fluctuating swelling, without pain or redness, sf i peared on the forehead, where the blow had been received, and, when cut into, a larg,; quantity of black half-coagulated blood was discharged, and the frontal bone felt rough t the finger. At every daily dressing there was a free discharge of similar blood. _Soo-^ after he had very severe bleeding from the nose, whieh relieved the headache; it n curred every day till the fourth, on the morning of which he sunk into a deep sleeti- broken only by convulsions, and in the evening he died. The examination showed the frontal bone rough and porous opposite the swellipf' the vessels of the dura mater were loaded with blood, and pressure upon the longitndin , sinus caused the blood to flow through the porous frontal bone, the sinus itself | several openings into the diploe, behind the injured part of the bone through which tl blood passed. On the upper part of the left hemisphere the dura mater adhered so nm to the brain, that they could not be separated without tearing. The cortical part of t brain was here very thin ; the convolutions had nearly disappeared ; and beneath it^ a large oval swelling, hard but fluctuating, over the left ventricle, extending througho the whole hemisphere, and occupying two-thirds of the transverse extent of the sku (a) Observationcs Pathologies, sect. iv. Caa. tcrl.; in Opera Minora. Vienns, 1800.