HOSPITAL GANGEENE. 69 blood; in fact, we were visited by a rather rare disease, hospital gangrene, one which I trust I may never see again. Luckily, out of a good many patients who were so attacked, and in all parts of the hospital almost simultaneously, not one perished. Many of the wounds and ulcers were frightfully extended; but they speedily got clean, and healed soon afterwards very kindly. <■ * * After the separation of the sloughs, a circular clean granulating surface was left. We were at a loss to account for this in- vasion : there was nothing as regarded the hospital, its ventilation, or drainage, or management, the dressing of sores, &c., that could be blamed. The disease came upon us suddenly, and as suddenly disappeared; and I need not tell you that we have seen nothing of the kind since.” My friend Arnott informs me that in January, 1835, in one of the female wards of Middlesex Hospital three cases occurred which might be classed under the head of hospital gangrene, of which the following is a short account:— Case 1.—The disease attacked a common ulcer of the leg; the surface became black and pulpy, with a broad very red margin of integument, a raised edge, and great pain. From the size of half-a-crown, the disease extended and occupied, ere it was stopped, a space of a large wash-hand saucer, exposing the muscles and bone. It was arrested by the application of pure nitric acid, and the removal of the patient into another ward. Case 2.—The disease appeared on an ulcer by the side of the anus, presented the same character, but was arrested by balsam of Peru, locally, and a grain of opium every six hours, internally. The disease recurred, and the patient was removed from the hospital. Case 3.—A punctured wound of the chest did not heal, but that of the integument enlarged by the conversion of the tissue into a grayish pulpy substance, (not black, and without the fiery margin and intense pain of the other cases,) more like phagedsena. It was stopped by balsam of Peru. “I have never seen,” he says, “a similar case in the Middlesex Hospital before or since.” I have mentioned the above cases of hospital gangrene, because they are, as far as I can ascertain, the only instances of the disease which have been seen in either of the London hospitals for many years. Cases occurred many years since in the old Westminster Hospital, and also in the York Hospital at Chelsea, which latter being a military esta- blishment, the disease was believed to have been brought home by the sick and wounded soldiers fi’om abroad. With these exceptions, I have the best grounds for stating that in no other hospital in London has it existed in the memory of either of the present surgeons; so that it is a disease entirely unknown to them, excepting to the few who have seen it elsewhere. Lawrence('a^, speaking of sloughing phagedsena, observes “that these occurrences generally take place in women of the town under the particular circumstances I have now stated; but it is by no means exclusively confined to cases in which the origin might be supposed to be venereal. I remember a very bad instance in this (St. Bartholomew’s) hospital, in a case that was under the care of Dr. Latham, by whom I was requested to see It on account of the sloughing phagedsena. It was a young woman who had had the ^all pox very badly. The disease had rendered her very weak, and diarrhoea came on. There was a considerable discharge from the vagina, and a constant moisture of the parts by a discharge from the rectum. Thus the skin of the nates became highly in- named, and in fact a large excavation of sloughing phagedsena formed on each buttock, and she was reduced to a very low state by the disease. Dr. Latham asked me what R "°**®^*’ j having examined her, I thought badly of the case, but that we might destroy the excavations in her buttocks, which were nearly as large as a good sized teacup, and possessing all the characters that I have mentioned. They were treated by nitric acid applied with lint wrapped round the end of a probe till the sore was saturated with it, and a brown escar produced; the surrounding parts having been pre- viously well dried, to prevent the spreading of the acid beyond the sore. Port wine WM liberally allowed her and she got well. This was a cause of a common kind, in which you could not ascribe the effect to syphilitic disease. Now, as far as I can un- aeretand the affection called hospital gangrene, it is the same as the sloughing pha- i described.” (p. 454.) I think there is little doubt that this was a dim ii* gangrene and not of the so-called sloughing phagedama. But it is uiincuit to make out whether LatiVrence holds them as distinct or as the same disease; snpp^ii former, as, in speaking of “ the treatment” of hospital gangrene, ToTorTo/i^’ other respects, is the same as I have mentioned for sloughing pnageduna.” (p. 455.) ^ “ («) Lectures, as above.