TEEATMENT. 623 disappears as the development of the body advances, particularly at the time of puberty, and in females frequently at the first pregnancy. 775. The cure of scrofula requires especially a good dietetic treatment, •strengthening and easily digestible diet, fresli air, cleanliness, and so on. Tlie medical treatment to be employed is either strengthening or such as acts specifically on the lymphatic system: bark, calamus, willow or chestnut ; bark, bitter extracts, acorn cofi'ee, steel, the various mercurial and anti- monial preparations, muriate of barytes, cicuta, belladonna, dulcamara, the alkalies, burnt sponge, iodine, cod-liver oil, and so on. The remedies acting on the lymphatic and vascular system are especially suitable in lymphatic habits and large glandular swellings. The remedies men- ; tioned must be differently combined with each other according to the : patient’s condition, and their favourable operation must be specially sup- . ported from time to time by purges of calomel and rhubarb or jalap. The use of the bath, particularly baths of aromatic herbs or wine, sulphur, • steel, or salt water, are of remarkable benefit, especially if connected with rubbing of the whole body with flannel or spirituous remedies. 776. Attempts should be made to disperse glandular swellings by fric- tion with volatile liniments, mercurial ointment with camphor and caustic spirits of ammonia; by irritating plasters, the emp. mercuriale, de cicuta • cum ammoniaco, saponatum, with camphor, opium, ox gall, and so on, and • when in a very chronic state with iodine ointment. The same remedies are to be used for the disperson of the hardness generally surrounding scro- ! fulous ulcers. If these swellings be accompanied with inflammation and I pain, the repeated applications of a few leeches is advisable, with mercurial . ointment, and the use of dry, or, in great tension, of moist warmth. If the scrofulous ulcers have a torpid character, with the astringent de- ; coctions of bark, elm or chestnut rind, and of green walnut shells, must be joined the extract oi cicuta, belladonna, or chamomile; with solution of I sublimate or lunar caustic with the above-mentioned additions, with red [precipitate ointment, with ung. nutrit., and the like. The scarring is I much hastened by frequent touching with lunar caustic, and the removal of I the quite loose and overhanging edges of the skin. In inflamed and very I painful condition of the ulcer, warm fomentations must be applied over the sore, accompanied with a soothing and corresponding dietetic treatment. Of late iodine (1) and cod-liveroil (2) have been considered especially important remedies against the various scrofulous affections. (1) Lugol (a) holds that the continued use of iodine is the most certain remedy against scrofiilous affections. He has never observed any ill consequence from persisting in the use of this remedy for any length of time; this happens only in the use of the common tinctura iodina. If oppression at the pit of the stomach come on, the iodine must be put aside, and some ounces of bark wine given. The forms prescribed by Lugol are,— R iodinm gr.^—^destill, tb.j. —M. utjiat mist; quotidie captand. R iodiruB gr.iy—iij.—iv. aq. destill, ft. j. —M. utjiat lot. ; assidueve frequenterve ad- liibend. R potass, iodid. jiv.—v.—vi., iodince 9iv.—^xiv.—xvj., axung. recent, ft.j Tere simul, ut Jiat ung.; bis die part, affect, iiifric. , Besides using these remedies the patient should observe a proper dietetic regimen, and be about in the open air. For baths for children, the solution in the proper quantity of water should be of four degrees of strength; 1, to six ounces of distilled water, two scruples of iodine, and four Memoircs sur Temploi de I’lode dans les Ma- ladies Scrofuleuses; precede du rapport fait a I’Acaderaie parSEBRES, Maoendie, etDuMERiL. Paris, 182H.