266 SCOTTS’ TREATMENT. where beans are used; and the inconvenience arising from the beans slipping out under tlie adhesive, plaster, and from any accidental pressure of them against the sore surface, is avoided.” (pp. 148, 49.) I have not any practical experience of this plan, l)cing always in the habit of using glass beads, which quietly rest in the cavities they soon form for themselves, and when the wounds are disposed to heal, 1 brush them over slightly with caustic potash, which 1 have not found to give very much inconvenience* but I think Buodie’s plan is likely to be preferable.—j. f. s. * (2) A very clever but simple apparatus tor local steam-bathing invented by DuvAnCa), has been used in some of our hospitals for the last few years, and well deserves Ijeing more extensively adopted, on account of the facility with which it can be employed and the great benefit attained by it, especially in chronic diseases of the joints. “ It consists of a reservoir for the water, capable of containing a little more than a pint, supported upon three metallic rods, and having a coverlet, which is furnished with two openings, one at the centre and one towards the side. From that in the centre arises a tube, terminating in a hollow globe, having attached to it and communicating with its interior three short branches, furnished with movable lids. A similar branch is connected with the opening at the upper edge of the reservoir. Beneath in a pan, supporting the parts already described, is placed a spirit-lamp, having four burners, and these, when lighted, quickly vaporize the water in the reservoir above. The steam is then con- ducted to the globe, and thence by means of short pipes slightly curved, and which may be connected with any one or all its branches at pleasure, to the part of the body required. The force and the quantity of vapour expelled is regulated by a key at the side of the principal cylinder, and which will diminish or enlarge its diameter, much on the principle of the ordinary stop-cock, while its escape upwards is entirely and in- stantly prevented by exposing the opening at the edge of the reservoir. The way in which it is used for joints is as follows: the patient covers the wrist, for instance, with a piece of flannel large enough for its edges to fall on a pillow, which is placed to sup- port the fore arm. The nozzle of one of the tubes is then placed beneath the funnel, and the steam allowed to escape. The joint thus enveloped in steam has usually been allowed to remain for about half an hour; the application being made once a day or oftener, as the circumstances require. It may be also used as a vapour-bath, thus: the patient lies supine in bed, and three or four arches of wood or other convenient materials are placed across the body, so as efiectually to raise the blanket from any contact with it. The apparatus is supported on a stool at the foot of the bed, and one of the pipes allowed to project into the arched cavity, which soon becomes filled with vapour. In this way all the inconveniences attending a removal to and from the bed are of course got rid of.” (p. 205.) (3) “ The objections which may be urged,” says Brodie, “ against the application of caustic to the skin of the groin do not hold good with respect to a seton in this situation. I was led to adopt this treatment some years ago, partly from observing that the skin of the groin is nearer to the hip-joint than the skin elsewhere; pai*tly from an expecta- tion (though not a very confident one) that the making a seton over the trunk of the anterior crural nerve might be particularly calculated to relieve the pain referred to those parts to which the branches of that nerve are disturbed. The results of this prac- tice more than realized whatever hopes I had entertained of its success. In many cases the seton occasioned very speedily a complete relief of the pain. In other cases, indeed, it failed in producing the like good efl'ects; but these cases have borne only a small proportion to those in which it has succeeded. On the whole, I am led to conclude, that where the pain is very severe, the seton in the groin is more calculated to afford immediate relief than the caustic issue; but that it is not so eflBcacious in checking the progress of the disease, as it is in lessening the violence of its symptoms; and that the caustic issue can be better depended on for the production of a cure.” (pp. 150, 51.)] 244. The good effects of this treatment is shown by the diininislied pain, and by the gradual return of the foot to its natural length. Its effects are to be assisted by rubbing in, at the same time, mercurial or iodine ointment. The observance of complete rest is here also indispensable. If, from tliis improvement, there should be again a relapse without any decided cause, the prognosis is very unfavourable. The repeated application of the actual cautery is sometimes effectual. When all symptoms of the disease liave sub- sided, the patient must still be kept quiet for a long while, and the suppu- rating parts must not quickly be checked. During convalescence sulphur (ft) I’rovincial Med. andSurg. Journ., Dec. 1840.