RECTAL FISTULA. 730 1 and gorget being felt to touch distinctly, are to be held with either hand i and both moved togetlier. The probe is given to an assistant, wlio at the • i same time separates the buttocks, and the gorget being pressed against it^ ' i, a straight bistoury is to be introduced along its groove, till it reaches the i i gorget, and in drawing out the bistoury all the parts between the probe ^ 1 and the gorget are divided, which is shown by the probe and gorget being ^ i drawn out through the wound without disturbing their contact after the ' incision is completed. If the canal extend higher than the internal fistu- lous opening, a pair of blunt scissors should, according to the advice of i some, be introduced into the wound, upon the forefinger, and the remaining • i partition divided. This, however, is according to foreign and home ex- • perience not indispensable {par. 928.) If the internal fistulous opening . i be very deep, a fine flexible, silver, hollow sound may be introduced by ■> I the fistula into the rectum, its end brought down out of the gut with the - I forefinger, and the parts lying upon it divided with a bistoury pushed ; • along the groove. Further observations on the seat of the internal opening in rectal fistula must decide, > whether this be not always connected as above said, (par. 928,) and whether the division i of the wall of the fistula from the inner opening be suflScient for the cure although the ,< | fistulous canal extend higher. [My common practice in operating on rectal fistula, has been for years, to use a soft ■ o silver director which will bend. Having introduced the forefinger of one hand into . r the rectum, I pass the director through the fistulous passage, and if, as is generally the « I case, there be a hole in the gut, into the rectum ; but if there be not an opening, or if it •. t cannot be readily found, I bore the end of the director against the wall of the gut, upon i < the finger introduced, and thus speedily penetrate into the cavity of the rectum. Having c ; thrust the end of the director well through, I bend it round with the top of my finger, • •. till I have brought it through the anus externally, and then thrust it a little further, till <1. its point rests upon the opposite buttock. Having both ends of the director, and both ^ pi apertures of the fistula well in sight, I divide the sphincter and its tegument, by ruimii^> i a pointed curved bistoury along the groove of the director. I think this mode of pro—;^ t ceeding is best, because it shows to what extent the parts are divided; and also that ; I thereby the upper part of the wall of the fistula tears, and is therefore less likely to i ; unite by adhesion, then when clean cut, as quick union is not desirable. Brodie also e i recommends the practice of bringing the end of the director through the anus, and i i dividing upon it. If I do not bring the probe out, I prefer the old practice of cutting on the finger, ■ *, which must be first introduced into the gut, then the fistula should be examined widi a » 1 probe, and its direction and extent being ascertained, the probe is withdrawn, and a » i button-ended curved bistoury passed in its room, through the opening in the gut, if there y i be one, but if not, the bowel is to be rubbed between it and the finger till it make one; i the end of the finger is then carried over the end of the knife, which being thus - i defended, the hand that holds the handle of the knife grasps the other, and the finger j and knife are together drawn down, cutting through the sphincter as they are brou^ '• ) out. There are, however, two inconveniences as regards this operation, the Surged^ r [ may cut his finger severely, or break the knife in the fistula, which I have seen when t 1 the patient has been unsteady.—J. F. S.] 932. In an internal blind fistula, the director should be carried to its - bottom, pressed against the gorget, introduced into the rectum, and the i I partition divided with the straight Ijistoury, as in the former case. 933. After the completion of the operation and after the wound has - i been properly cleaned, the forefinger of the left hand should be introduced ; into the rectum, to the upper end of the wound, and then by means of a I probe or pair of forceps well oiled, a tent of lint should be jmssed up : and put lengthways between the edges of the wound, so as to prevent i them touching; a wad of charpie is tlien to be put on, to be fixed with sticking plaster, then a compress, and the wdiole held together with a T 1 • i