OF THE FORE-A KM. o61 (a) Above cited, p. 483. 0)y DES.A.ULT, Feileu, aud Eakle. Tlie arm is to be put into a state of •^iliglit flexion, and the hand and fore-arm swatlied vvitli an ascending spiral Asandage up to the elbow. An assistant then holds the bandage, the Jipper is to be pressed down to the lower end of the fracture, taking care s.^hat tlie skin do not fold over the seat of fracture, and a sufficiently thick i«‘ompress is to be put on tiie upper fractured piece, the ends of which diould pass round to the bend of the elbow. The compress is to :j >e fixed with a QO bandage, and then the bandage carried up spirally j 0 tlie upper part of the upper arm, for the purpose of rendering, by 5 ufficient pressure, the?«. triceps extensor cubiti actionless. The fore-arm < s to be supported in a sling. The bandage must be renewed as often ; ,s it becomes loose, and at the twenty-fifth or thirtieth day may be re- 3 noved entirely, when we must endeavour to get rid of the stiffness of the 5 oint by motion and volatile frictions. If much inflammation and swelling I nave already set in, they must be first removed by suitable treatment lefore the application of the apparatus. If the fracture be compound, •ery severe symptoms commonly arise, which are to be treated after the eral rules. Feiler has added to this apparatus a cap made of leather, and a glove onnected by straps to the cap, which is put upon the olechranon, so that he arm is kept in a proper degree of flexion, and the upper sufficiently lose to the lower fractured portion. Earle, after having prevented the feral motion of the upper fractured end with a light compress and strips )f sticking plaster laid obliquely over the elbow, and having brought the roken ends close together, applied a splint of stiff pasteboard, softened in ivami water, upon the front and back of the arm, and fastens it with a ircular bandage. The pasteboard remains on the arm till dry, during rhich time the patient lies on his back, with the arm on a pillow. The ry pasteboard is then to be taken off, and padded with buckskin. These plints should be sufficiently strong to prevent every motion of the joint. [Notwithstanding all the inconveniences described by Cheluis as connected with le straight position in the treatment of fractured olecliranon, I must still advise its imployment. I have used it very frequently, and never with the least inconvenience 0 or complaint of the patients.—J. F. S.] On Fracture of the Olechranon,'compare— Sheldon, Essay on Fracture of the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1789. Camper, P., Dissert, de Fractur§, Patellae et Olechrani. fig. illust. Hag. Com. 790. 4to. Bottcher, J. K., Auswahl desChirurgischen Verbandes. Berlin, 179.5. 8vo. p. 198. Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. i. p. 163. Wardenburg’s Ziisatze zu Desault’s Bemerkungen liber den Bruch des Ole- ranums. Feiler J., liber den Bruch des Olekranums. Sulzbach, 1811. 8vo. Cooper Astley, above cited, p. 485, PI. xxix. Earle, above cited, p. 143 Alcock, Practical Observations on the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1823. Amesbury ; in London Medical Repository, June, 1825. 662. Analogous to fracture of the olechranon may be considered the racture of the coronoid process of the cubit. This fracture is extremely : ■•'are, and was first described by A. Cooper (a). It occurred through a