465 OF THE INTESTINES. the wound, finds the point which corresponds to the part already pierced, and pushes in the same needle about a line and a half from the edge, allowing- it to pass for a line’s space between tlie coats and about two linp and a half from tlie bleeding edge. The other threads are applied m the same manner at a distance from three to four lines. The edges ot the wound are tlien turneil inwards by means of a probe, and a simple knot is made upon the probe, after which it is withdrawn. In consequence of this stitchino-, a ridge formed by the edges of tlie wound, projects into the in- i testine f externally a grove is seen, where the serous surfaces of the intestine j lie close too^ther. If the intestine be cut completely through, the edges 1 of the wound produce an internal circular valve. IIeybard (a) recommends, in long and oblique wounds, the applica- i tionof a flat thin piece of wood, having a double thread fastened to it, I the ends of which are tlirust with a needle through the corresponding edges i of the wound of the intestine, and then both ends threaded together into a ( sino-le curved needle, are drawn outwards at some distance from the edge ' of ?he wound, in the wall of the belly, through the latter, and here fastened on a roll of charpie, so tightly that the edges of the wound in the bowel, united on the piece of wood, are pressed to the inner surface of the 'perito- neum. The wound in the belly unites. On the third day the threads are loosened and withdrawn; the bit of wood is discharged by stool. In a complete cutting through of the intestine, the union of the gut with the peritoneum around the wound is effected either at first by a portion of the mesentery ; or the gut is to be fastened to the bottom of the wound with some stitches, and then a pair of forceps having been applied on the opposed walls of the intestine, which form a projecting angle, they are cut into with the enterotome, and united by the continued application of the forceps during forty-eight hours, when the faeces take their natural course i I Nt and the external wound closes. [As Chelids, after enumerating so many modes of stitching up a wounded intestine, has given a decided preference to that recommended by Lembert, without noticing the practice of English Surgeons, except a very trivial reference to Astley Cooper’s treatment of slight wounds in these organs, it is necessary to show what had been already proposed and done in this country long before. Travers mentions the following experiment made by Shipton (6), an English sur- geon, in the year 17052, and which is the groundwork of his own experiments. “ Ship- ton having cut away a portion equal to two finger’s breadth of the ileum of a dog, con- nected the extremities by an uninterrupted suture, and closed the external wound. The cicatrix being completed, and the parts examined at the end of three weeks, the result proved highly curious. The sewed intestine lay at a considerable distance from the wound, firmly attached to the peritoneum, but the suture had yielded, so as to allow the cut ends of the gut to recede, which were enveloped in a sac formed of adhering (mentum and intestine. The following are the writer’s words:—‘ Ad cicatricem ab interna parte accuratius lustrandum, intestinum juxta longitudinem excidimus, quo ex uno latere vulneris labia adducta, ex altero eadem divisa proximisque adjacentium in- testinorum partibus agglutinata fuisse apparebat, ita ut exteriores eorum tunic® internum ah isto latere efformantes parietem, intestinalem fistulam continuarent, cibisque deve- hendis commode inservirent.’ (p. 1301.) The appearances described and delineated by Shipton bear a pointed resemblance to those of experiment N. The divided parts were retained in the one case by suture, in the other by the continuous portion of the tube in opposition, though not in contact. In both, the interval of the orifices was a sac termed by the adherence of surrounding parts, which received the intestinal matters in Shi^n s experiment the artificial canal was more uniformly cylindrical because (p 1 lT*lT) 0'''“ irregular, because the section was partial ” (o) Memoires sur le Traitement des Anus Art Dcieu, des I'laips des Intestins, et des Plaies peni trantes de Poltrine. Paris, 1827. (6) Observatio de portione intestini canis felici- ter abscissa; in Phil. Trans, vol. xxii. p. i. l;o3. VOL. I. 2 u