292 UNION BY liy John Hunter, is most consistent with the researches of Schwann, and the known mode of development of vessels in the embryo. Doeluncer and Kai.teniiuennhi consider that new vessels may be formed in both stages. Their mode of arrangement in lymph have been shown by the injections of Pockels, and in granulations by those of Liston. The difficulty of the inquiry consists in ascertaining how the v^ular walls are formed previous to that period when an injection can be thrown into them The late observations of Mr. Travers, on the injured web of the frog’s foot, seem to confirm the first view above mentioned, whereas those of Hasse, Henle, Skoda, and Kolletscha, on the new vessels of lymph in man, tend to the conclusion that isolated extravasations of blood channel for themselves passages in the coagulated exudation, which subsequently become vessels, and unite with those previously existing. These isolated and star-shaped collections of blood I have frequently seen in recently effused lymph, but hitherto have never been able to satisfy myself that they constitute the first formation of new vessels. The whole subject demands renewed investigation.” (pp. 2. But if the wound do not at once unite, there exudes, for the first few days, from the whole surface a reddish serous fluid, which becomes puru- lent : a delicate cellular substance is developed upon the surface of the wound which, by the shooting forwards of the capillary vessels into it, forms granulations; these at first are very delicate, and bleed on the slightest touch, but by degrees become firmer, draw together towards their middle, and thus diminish the extent of the wound; the granulations are covered with a delicate cuticle, and a whitish, skinny, imperspirable covering called a, Scar (^Cicatrix, Ijdit. •, Narbe, Grenn. •, CicaiWce, Fr.) is produced. This j is the cure of wounds by means of suppuration and cicatrization {Reunio per secundam intentionem, Lat.; Heilung der Wunden auf dem Wege der • Eiterung und Vernarbung, Germ.) lu all the higher animal organisms the special reproduction of lost parts is dependent : only on the production of cellular tissue, by means of which the bones may be partially ■ reproduced by the deposit of phosphate of lime. The solution of continuity of other jiarts i is, however, only replaced by a cellular deposit; which, indeed, may assume a tough i fibrous structure, but never can acquire the organization of the lost or divided part. The ? opinions, in regard to the reproduction of nervous substance, however, are still very f various, as will be seen hereafter. • [“ When the adhesive inflammation” says John Hunter, “ is not capable of resolu- - tion, and has gone back as far as possible to prevent the necessity of suppuration, especially y in those cases that might have admitted of a resolution, as in spontaneous inflammations f in general, where there has neither been an exposed laceration of the solids, nor, as before t mentioned, loss of substance, but where the natural functions of the part have only been t so deranged that it was unable to fall back into a natural and sound state again; or, r secondly, where it was a consequence of such accidents as the effects of the adhesion i could not in the least prevent, (as in wounds that were prevented from healing by the firsts or second intention,) then, under either of these two circumstances, suppuration takes ■ place. The immediate effect of suppuration is the produce of pus, from the inflamedi surface, which appears in such cases, or under such circumstances, to be a leading stepi to the formation of a new substance called granulations, which are the third method, in^ the first order of parts, of restoring those parts to health.” (p. 371.) “ Granulations are an accretion of animal matter upon the wounded or exposed surfaces they are formed by an exudation of the coagulating lymph from the vessels, into which ) new substance both the old vessels very probably extend, and also entirely new ones*: form, so that the granulations come to be very vascular, and indeed they are more s<i than almost any other animal substance.” (p. 477.) “ Immediately upon the formation of the granulations cicatrization would appear to b i in view. The parts which had receded, in consequence of a breach being made inh | them, by their natural elasticity, and probably by muscular contraction, now begin to b f brought together by this new substance; and it being endowed with such properties, the; ^ soon begin to contract, which is a sign that cicatrization is soon to follow. The contract tion takes place in every point, but principally from edge to edge, which brings the cii j cumference of the sore towards the centre; so that the sore becomes smaller and sinallei )■ although there is little or no new skin formed. The contracting tendency is in som M degree proportioned to the general healing disposition of the sore, and the looseness c ^