SCALLED HEAD. 632 between these crusts, and frequently destroys the skin even to the bone Similar crusts are often formed on the face and other parts. If the crusts be removed, tlie skin is found inflamed, and a clammy fluid exudes from it, 2. Tinea granulata.—This is characterized by small, tubercular, irre^ gular crusts, sometimes gray, sometimes grayish, without depression at their tip, usually situated on the upper hinder part of the head, sur- rounded with branlike scales, and accompanied with a nauseous secretion having the smell of rancid butter or putrid milk. These tubercles, not deeply penetrating in the skin, cause painful smarting, spread very rarely upon some parts of the face, but never on other parts. 3. Tinea furfuracea.—Upon the hairy part of the head are formed branny, whitish, more or less thick scales, which are sometimes quite dry, sometimes accompanied with a secretion of a filthy smelling, viscous fluid^ and with painful itching. They spread frequently on the forehead, and eyebrows. 4. Tinea asbestina.—Commonly upon the fore and upper part of the head, scales are produced, silvery white, glossy, resembling asbestos, which mat the hair together, and cover its whole length, but are accompanied with little pain, and scarcely any secretion. 5. Tinea muciflua.—Pustules or little abscesses arise, pouring out when they burst a yellowish viscous fluid, which dries into whitish yellow crusts. A mucoid fluid, resembling spoiled honey, flows out in quantity and mats the hair together. These ulcerations generally spread over the whole face. 794. If the scalled head be of long continuance, or have been neglected, it often produces considerable destruction of the skin of the head, loss of the hair, disturbance of nutrition, suspension of the development of the body, diseased changes of the nails and the like. In Tinea muciflua there is often general falling away when the secretion diminishes, and the pre- vious good health only returns when it reappears. 795. Scalled head occurs usually in children about ten years old; but the Tinea muciflua commonly shows itself during lactation. Scalled head, however, often also occurs later, especially Tinea favosa; but Tinea ashes- tina is peculiar to adults. The proximate cause of scalled head is an inflammation of the skin, on which the diseased secretion depends, and by the drying up of the secreted fluid the crusts are produced. The occasional causes may be, in children the too great flow of blood to the head, too nourishing food, milk from a debauched, diseased wet nurse, uncleanliness, living in bad damp air, irrita- tion of the head from lice, and its too warm covering; also scrofulous or syphilitic dyscrasies, and contagion, which, though not always, may under certain circumstances occur. 796. Scalled head is in many cases to be considered as a healthy dis- charge, and its sudden suppression dangerous. The difficulty of curing it depends on the variety of its causes. If it be easily removable, frequently a simple local treatment is sufficient for its cure; but if it depend on a scrofulous or syphilitic dyscrasy its cure is always difficult. It often first subsides at the period of puberty. 797. The treatment of scalled head is as various as its causes. Tm diet must, therefore, often be changed; attention paid to fresh air and exercise ; special cleanliness observed ; slightly aperient, diluent reniedi«> especially purifying the skin, and in scrofulous and syphilitic dyscraa** their antidotes are recommended.