PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 443 March 9. Better; calomel thrice a day ; on the following day only three grains w ere given, and only twenty-live minims of laudanum given at night. * • i, j March 12. Has passed a very good night; says he feels quite well, and is astonished so many inquiries are made about his health. A gram of calomel twice a day, the anodyne at night. Milk, arrow-root, and biscuit powder, as he pleases. From this time he continued improving, till ., ■ ^ „ xMarch 2.1. When he had a slight rigor; the pulse became very rapid, varying from 140 to 150; tongue dry, and excessive thirst; is very restless, and apprehensive that all is not right; the bowels have not been relieved for two days. Sixteen ounces or blood were taken away, which was rather buffy; a cathartic injection iinmediately, and a ca- thartic draught ordered every three hours till the bowels are moved. March 24. Has slept but little; tongue dry; pulse very quick and weak. 1 hirty leeches applied to the ehest; saline mixture and two grains of calomel every three hours ordered. He was rather better in the evening. Sixteen leeches to the chest. March 25. His mouth being slightly affected, the calomel was ordered only every six hours, and twelve leeches to the chest. Feels himself better; pulse 118.^ March 25. Says he feels quite well again; pulse above 100. This morning for the first time complains of a cough accompanied with tickling in the throat. Twelve leeches to the chest. Two grains of calomel thrice a day; and next day, he complaining of soreness of the mouth, it was ordered only night and morning. March 28. Says he feels quite hearty again; cough is troublesome ; respiration re- turning in the left lung; very feeble just below the wound on the front of the chest with slight rhoncus mucosits. Blanc-manger and a little coffee twice a day. April 2. Since the last report has been going on as well, except that his bowels have been disposed to costiveness, and it has been therefore necessary to give sulphate of magnesia in peppermint water every three or four hours, and a purging clyster. Com- plaius of his cough becoming more troublesome. April 4. Has been going back for the last day or two. The cough harasses him very much, and prevents him sleeping: pulse rapid and very weak. The wound in his chest looking well, but a sinus about three inches long passes obliquely outwards between the ribs and skin, which, being laid open, exposed a small portion of the cartilage of the fourth rib. April 8. Much the same: cough as troublesome; gets but little sleep: pulse 120, feeble. He takes synxp of poppies and squill vinegar three or four times a day, when the cough is urgent. To continue the blanc-manger, milk and broth as he pleases, and have one egg every morning. April 9. Has had a better night and less cough. April 12. Going on satisfactorily; says he feels quite himself again ; sleeps well; appetite good; pulse about 90. April 22. Continues improving daily: respiration more audible, except at the lower part of the left lung: pulse perfectly quiet; sleeps well. Allowed table-beer and half a chicken daily. After this time nothing of consequence happened; and on the 30th of May he was convalescent. The quantity of blood spat up in this case, did not exceed that commonly coughed up in broken ribs. The discharge of pus from the wounds till they had healed was very trifling. The pulsation of the heart was veiy violent, and distinctly raising the bed-clothes. He recovered his health perfectly ; first went into service as a footman, but returned to the sea, and was twice shipwrecked, and saved his life by swimming a considerable distance. In 1841 he was well, and went a voyage to the West Indies. Astley Cooper mentions the case of “ a man who had been wounded through the intercostal muscles with an iron spindle ; the wound healed, but tetanus supervened, of which he died. Upon inspecting the chest after death, the lung was found to have assisted in closing the wound by adhering to the injured pleura.” (p. 230.) Opportunities of examining the condition of wounded lungs after their cure are of rare occurrence. Hennen says he has “ never had the opportunity of examining the lungs after recovery from a severe wound.” (p. 386.) An account of such a case has, however, been given by Evehard Home (a), thirty- two years after the injury had been received. “ In searching for the course of the ball, the spot where it entered the lungs of the left side was very readily discovered by the re- mains of a small cicatrix, the membrane at that part being thinner than common, and having a puckered appearance which terminated in a central point. This part of the (n) The of a person who was shot through the lungs and survived for thirty-two vears ; with an ^ount of the appearance ofthe contents of the thorax after death; in Trans, of a Society for the improve- ment of Medical and Oiirurgical Knowledge, vol. ii. London, IbOO.