> : pital Reports, vol. iv. 1839. AND OF THE UPPER-ARM. ) i]ie only on the sound side, and leave the other quite free, best prevents .•the displacement of the apparatus and the broken ends of the bone, and v therefore the patient should sleep in that posture. In five or six wee s Mthe fracture is consolidated. The accompanying symptoms must be treate Aafter the general rules. 1 642. In Fracture of the Collar-hone hetioeen the coracoid process ctnd ^ the scapular end there is scarcely any displacement, and therefore the diag- xunosis is often very difficult. The treatment consists in fastening the arm to 0 the trunk upon a moderate sized pillow, and getting rid of the bruises. J XII.—OF FRACTURE OF THE UPPER-ARM. « (Fractura Humeri, Lat.; Bruch des Oberarmbeines, Germ.; Fracture de VHumerus, Fr.) •f 643. Fracture of the Upper-Arm is distinguished into that of the neck and of the body. 644. The Fracture of the Nech of the Upper-Arm-hone (^Fractura colli \humeri) is that which takes place either near the tubercles of the bone, in them, or above them, at the properly so-called collum humeri. In the first case, the upper part of the fracture is drawn outwards and upwards by the m. supra- et infra- spinatus, whilst the m. latissimus dorsi, pec- toralis major and teres major, draw the lower end inwards: in the second case, there is not any displacement, because the seat of fracture is equally surrounded with muscles ; and in the third case, the lower end is displaced inwards. 645. The diagnosis of this fracture is often very difficult, especially if much swelling have taken place. The patient feels, at the moment of the injury, severe pain, often hears a crack, and cannot move his arm. A hollow is noticed beneath the acromion, but the shoulder has still its natural form. The limb may be moved in all directions, although with pain. If one hand be put on the shoulder, and the lower end of the arm- bone be pulled with the other, rotation being made at the same time, crepitation is often felt, and diminished motion of the head of the bone. !If the lower end of the bone be inclined inwards, a projection, not rounded, is felt in the arm-pit. This fracture is for the most part consequent on severe violence, which acts immediately on the shoulder; it is therefore commonly accompanied I with severe bruising and much inflammation. It more rarely happens by I a fall upon the elbow or hand, when the arm is apart from the body; and I is most common in children and old persons, but rare in mid-age. I [Fracture of the greater tuberele of the upper-aim-bone sometimes happens, of which I? there is an example in St. Thomas’s Museum; the process appears as if sliced off from the shaft of the bone, and remains attached to the tendons of the outward rotating a muscles. (A Astley Cooper describes (a) a fracture “ at the junction of the head of the os humeri i» with the tubercles at the part at which the capsular ligament is fixed, and where, in young people, the epiphysis is placed. In them it is a very frequent oceurrence; it «i sometimes, though more rarely, happens in the old ; in middle age it seldom occurs S and he gives the following signs:—“ The head of the bone remains in the glenoid Hi cavity of the scapula, so that the shoulder is not sunken as in dislocation. A projection >! of bone is perceived on the coracoid process, and when the elbow is raised and brought V forwards, this projection is rendered particularly conspicuous. By drawing down the * ' Dislocations of the Os humeri, &c., and upon Fractures near the Shoulder-joint; in Guy’s Hos-