WHITE SWELLING. 274 lose their natural appearance, and at length the cartilage cells become entirely filled ■with oily matter. Although the microscopic characters are sufficient to show the real nature of this matter, I acted upon it with mther, which took up a considerable portion, and after evaporating, left it on the glass thus confirming the information derived from the microscopic examination. The intercellular matter, sometimes called hyaline, like tlie nuclei of the cells, becomes also converted into oil, the minute particles of which are arranged in irregular lines running in all directions, and thus grooving and exca- vating the cartilage, they produce its gradual removal. “ 1 am disposed to think that this mode of degeneracy of cartilage, by its reconversion into a substance more absorbable than itself, and less nitrogenized,—a kind of process exactly the reverse or counterpart of nutrition,—has not been observed by tliose who have written upon these diseases.”—Gko. Hainey. In the scrofulous disease of the cancellated structure of the bones, Brodie says;—“ Be- fore it has extended to the other textures, and while there is still not evident swelling, the patient experiences some degree of pain, which, however, is not so severe as to oc- casion serious distress, and often is so slight, and takes place so gradually, that it is scarcely noticed.” The patient is able to go about often for a long while, hence “ the swelling, though usually more in degree than it is, at the same period, in tliose cases in which the ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease, is not greater in appear- ance, because the muscles of the limb are not equally wasted from want of exercise. In children the swelling is, in the first instance, usually less difliised, and somewhat firmer to the touch, than in the adult. * * * The swelling increases, but not uniformly, and it is greater after the limb has been much exercised, than when it has been allowed to be i in a state of quietude.” (pp. 251, 52.) “ As the caries of the bones advances, inflammation takes place of the cellular mem- brane external to the joint. Serum, and afterwards coagulable lymph, is effused, and hence arises a puffy and elastic swelling in the early, and an oedematous swelling in the advanced stage of the disease. Abscess having formed in the joint, makes its way by ul- ceration through the ligaments and synovial membrane, and afterwards bursts externally having caused the formation of numerous and circuitous sinuses in the neighbouring soft parts, (p. 246.) As the cartilages continue to ulcerate, the pain becomes somewhat, but not materially, aggravated. It is not severe till abscess has formed. * * * The disease not unfrequently remains in this state for several months, or even for a much longer period, without the constitution being materially disturbed, (p. 252-54.) “ When the disease occurs in those joints which are more superficially situated, as the knee and ankle,” Brodie (a) says, “ we may be further assisted in our diagnosis by observing the character of the swelling by which it is accompanied, and which is somewhat peculiar, especially in children, previous to the formation of abscess. It is • then limited to the immediate vicinity of the affected part, and has a pretty well-defined • margin. When the disease is in the knee, the child usually keeps the leg a good deal ;i bent, and the condyles of the femur are seen projecting, of a somewhat globular form, .i and appearing as if they were actually enlarged, although we know them not enlarged J | in reality.” (p. 202.) The principal distinction between this form of disease and primary ulceration is the less degree of pain. In considering diseases of the knee-joint, it would seem improper to pass over without ;■ notice that which has been called White Swelling.—This term has been so long, and so generally, applied to several ■ different diseases of the joints, that its real meaning has been almost entirely lost sight i of, and it is now only applied, by unprofessional persons in this country, to swellings of • the knee-joint, of long endurance and great obstinacy; and even by some continental writers, as, for instance, Velpeau, it has been made to include the whole class of dis- ■ orders affecting both the soft and hard parts of joints, though he has chosen to designate them with the classical title .Art/iropat/u'e, (diseases of joints,) which has been coined for ■ the purpose, in preference to the other equally mystic name, Arthrite, (inflammation of joints.) Yet the term White Swelling, had a special signification, and designated an im- ■ portant and dangerous, though not malignant, disease, and, within a few years, its right ■ to be distinguished as a peculiar form, has been asserted and proveil by Nicolai of ■ Berlin, who published, in Paris, a very clever thesis, entitled Mimoire .<ntr les^ Tumevrs ■ blanches des Articulations; which he reprinted, in 1832, with little alteration, in Krsrs ■ Ilandbuch der Chirurgie, in the article. Fungus Arliculornm. I rather suspect he must ■ have been well acquainted with Bussell’s Treatise on the Morbid Sgsicm of the hner- ■ Joint, in which a very excellent account of white swelling is given ; but he has gone more ■ carefully and extensively into the subject, as will be presently seen. ■ (fi) Thinl Edition. I