MUCOUS AND SEEOUS MEMBRANES. 73 1 inflammation, or in long-continued flow of mucus, ulceration and destruc- tion of the underlying parts frequently occur. Very rarely do inflamed I mucous membranes become adherent. [la reference to the kind of inflammation which occurs in mucous membranes, Hunter isays“ In internal canals, (I make a difference between an internal cavity and a canal; I they are very different in tlieir construction, their uses, and also their mode of action 1 in disease are very different,) where adhesions in most cases would prove hurtful, the fparts run immediately into the suppurative inflammation, the adhesive inflammation in rcommon being excluded; such parts are the internal surface of the eyelids, nose, mouth, [trachea, air-cells of the lungs, oesophagus, stomach, intestines, pelvis of the kidneys, lureters, bladder, urethra, uterus, vagina, and indeed all the ducts and outlets of the lorgans of secretion, which all these parts mentioned may be in some degree reckoned, land which are commonly called mucous membranes. In such parts, if the inflammation ;is but slight, the suppurative in common takes place, which is almost immediate, as it :is not retarded by the adhesive stage, which accounts for the quickness of suppuration >of these parts in many cases. * * * Since those surfaces are, in general, secreting sur- ifaces, suppuration would appear to be only a change in the secretion; and I think I '.have visibly seen, or could visibly trace, the one change gradually leading into the •other; the different parts, therefore, of which the pus is composed, will not always be lin the same proportion, so that the matter will seem to vary from true matter towards that •of the common secretion of the part, and vice versd ; but this does not alter the position, ’.for it is common to matter from a sore, and even common to our ordinary secretions. . If this inflammation which produced suppuration on those surfaces becomes more violent, •or has something of the erysipelatous disposition, we find that it moves from the suppu- rative to the adhesive, and throws out the coagulating lymph.” (p. 241, 2.)] The Serous Membranes have great disposition to inflame; the inflam- imation is very painful, usually appears suddenly, spreads quickly, and ■easily passes into resolution, adhesion, transudation, and mortification, but -rarely into ulceration. Serous membranes often thicken, either by the ■ cellular tissue upon their external surface or by plastic membranes, or even in their own proper substance. Chronic inflammation of serous membranes appears mostly in the form of dropsical affections. [Serous membranes are the circumscribed cavities which, with “ the cellular membrane lor the body in general,” belong to the first order of parts into which the body is divided by Hunter, and in relation to which he observes:—“When inflammation takes place in the first order of parts, it is commonly the adhesive; but it will be according to circum- ■ stances whether the suppurative or the ulcerative follows first.” (p. 253.) “ The adhesive inflammation serves as a check to the suppurative, by making parts which otherwise must infallibly fall into that state, previously unite, in order to prevent its access, as was described in the adhesive inflammation being limited; and, where it cannot produce this effect so as altogether to hinder the suppurative inflammation itself from taking place, it becomes, in most cases, a check upon the extent of it” (p. 305;) of which inflammations of the pleura, or surface of the lungs, presents a good example ; “ the adhesive inflammation takes place, and the surfaces are united, which union going before the suppurative confines it to certain limits, so that distinct abscesses are formed in this union of the parts; and the whole cavity of the thorax is not involved in a general suppuration.” (p. 366.) The jwculiar disposition of serous membranes to assume in preference adhesive inflam- mation is remarkably contrasted with the equally special preference of mucous mem- branes for the suppurative inflammation. The construction of closed cavities by the serous, and of canals by the mucous membranes, afford the ready explanation of these pecuhpities. Any opening, therefore, in a serous membrane puts it in an unnatural coMition. and, consequently, if it were attacked with suppurative inflammation, the pus pr^uced requiring an aperture for its escape, such unnatural state would be induced, antt the functions of the membrane interfered with or destroyed: therefore, most Mnimonly, adhesive is the kind of inflammation occurring, which only diminishes the ravity (^the lesser evil) without opening it; and when, more rarely, suppurative inflam- mation ensues, it is most usually shut off from the general cavity by adhesive inflammation, rm \h empyema; and only in few cases existing without such adhesion. Whilst, on me contrary, were mucous canals attacked with adhesive inflammation, they would