709 THE TOOTII-SOCKETS. hours the bleeding returned, morpliia, which was continued for a few days. On the I8th the bleeding was again free, but finally stopped on the 21s<; and he left the house well on the 29th. How Ion"' the lead was continued in the second part of this case, the notes 1 ha've quoted, which were not my own, do not distinctly state, and I think it doubtful whether the cure was to be ascribed to it or simply to the loss of blood, by which in a case related by Davunport (a), the bleeding had certainly been put a stop to after thirty hours con- tinuauce, and depressing tlie patient very considerably. I cannot help, however, thinking that in the second part of this case the actual cautery was never effectually applied ; for as 1 have said before, Ihave never failed when using it, neither has my colleague Green, who also employs it. From the above cases it will be perceived how various have been the remedies made use of to stop these violent bleedings after drawing a tooth, but many other plans have been advised and strongly urged as most efficient. Some persons reinsert the extracted tooth in the socket as the best plug which can be used. Cortez (b) recommends the introduction of a wax model into the socket, which he has found effectual in three or fom- instances. Peter Cullen (c) prefers a very fine soft phial-cork gently squeezed into the socket, and upon the point of the cork, a hit of lint with some styptic may be put. Kendrick (d) advises a pledget of cotton dipped in the sti-ongest alcohol as very efficacious. And among the cases of hmmorrhage effectually treated with the internal use of ergot of rye, one of bleeding after drawing a molar tooth is given by Dr. Ryan (e). An interesting circumstance in reference to these cases is, that not unfrequently other individuals of the family to which the patient belongs, are subject to this bleeding dis- position. It was so in my own patient’s family, and with that of Kennedy’s patient, and I have known it in many other instances. It is scarcely needful to observe, that if the practitioner he aware of the patient or his family being subject to this disposition to bleed, he should he extremely cautious in un- dertaking the removal of a tooth, or indeed of any operation ; and if compelled to resort to it, should at once be prepared to attempt arresting its bleeding at the onset, and not permit its continuance for hours, much less for days, before employing any efficient remedy.—J. F. S.] 897. Tooth-fistulas {par. 883) require the speedy drawing- of the de- cayed tootli, and the use of astringent gargles. If the fistula do not then close, it is probable that there is still another decayed tooth, which must be drawn ; or caries of tlie alveolar process may exist, which must be treated in the usual way. Carcinomatous excrescences on the gums {jpar. 884) are mostly conse- quences of a decayed tooth or of a carious part of the alveolar process. They must be removed from their base with the knife, and the great bleeding which generally ensues must be stopped with astringent remedies and prepure, or with the actual cautery, which last is also serviceable in preventing the recurrence of the excrescence. If after the removal of epulis a decayed tootli or caries of the alveolar edge be discovered, the former must be drawn, and the latter treated according to the general rule. ^ Cancerous sores and schirrus will be eonsidered with degenei-ation of the organic tissues. (ii) Medical Gazette, vol.il. 1842. New Series, p. 58. (6) Ibid., vol. iv. p. 490. 1829. fc) Medical Gazette, vol. v. p. 5G4. 1830. (d) Ibid., p. 788. (c) Ibid., vol.xiii. p. 368. 183J.