EXFOLIATION, 694 much less numerous at the lower end of the bone, which was also white. It well resisted pulling, nor did it dissolve, nor lose the characters of membrane when strongly rubbed (t with the fingers; but it was not to be considered as strong as periosteum; for as yetit'j had less cohesion. The substance of the new lx>ne seemed spongy, and tinged every where with the red colour of the blood, except the lower end, which, as already said, 1. was rather whitish and softer. When this substance was cut out and its thickness.^ pressed with the fingers, a few drops of blood and lymph, like a scanty dew, exuded, i. (p. 21-24.) Its internal surface was furnished with an infinity of little holes, as well as« the external; nor was the hole in the middle and outer side of the shank-bone for the « passage of the vessels deficient. There were also some very large holes, which ])ene-.-^ trating from the external to the internal surface of the bone, were covered without by y the external periosteum, and within with the internal membrane; they contained a'« dusky whitish and dry crust; whence it was very clear that they originated in a defect ^ of the ossification. 1 shaWnavae them foramina, or graiuiia foramina." (pp. 27,8.) Wein-W: HOLD says, that these holes, “ as they give passage to the escaping pus and the loose «* pieces of bone, would be better called cloacae.” (p. .35.) “ Beginning from the sixth k(i hour and going on to the seventh day,” says Troja, “ I did not perceive in the newm bone, these spaces and grandia foramina, except when the legs were swollen, and then w they were constant. In the twice that I proceeded to the seventh day, 1 did not make « out whence were these spaces and^ommtHo. At first I thought they were the insertions « of muscles; but their irregular situation and uncertain number, one, two, and even to n eight, and more careful examination, proved to me that such was not the case. Their x, absence in legs which had not swelled, and the periosteum raised from the bone in vesi- h cles, assured me that no jelly could be collected in the spaces, and that the foramina in a the bone must be produced by want of substance or of ossification. But it might be e I conjectured that the dry crust in them originated in the juice which the broken vessels to I poured out, drying on the surface of the torn periosteum, and perhaps from some layer r t of it which was dead.” (pp. 58, 9.) Weinhold says he has “ seen a small portion of < dead diploe of the os hmominatum contained in a bony cavity without any cloaca. If f there be many cavities in the same bone containing sequestres, each has at least its own n, cloaca. * * * Their form is round or oval, or somewhat like; their size is commonly ) sufficient to admit a quill; there are however some larger, though rarely so. Inwardly r their edges are converging, and as it were contracted like a funnel, but outwardly their r lips spread downwards, and the intermediate passage is sometimes long, sometimes short, t, and sometimes scarcely existing.” (p. 35.) Upon the disputed point, whether the newly formed bone inclosing the sequester, ■. in internal necrosis be produced by the swelling of the outer layer of the bone, or from a the investing peiiosteum. Moller observes:—“ It is not in itself conceivable, that a a membrane like the periosteum, which is merely the vehicle for the vessels entering into a the bone, and also its covering, should form an organized mass of bone. (p. 405.) It is t a most entire misconception, to suppose that one organic part can be frie nourishing ^ organ of another organized part, for instance, that bony substance should be produced o by periosteum, and that bone should be nourished by that membrane. * * * Bone i is nourished by vessels from the periosteum and medullary membrane; it therefore dies s if either of these be destroyed to some extent, the external layer on the destruction of t the periosteum, and the internal on that of the medullay membrane. But it dc^ not ■. follow that these membranes deposit the lime in bone. The periosteum is the vehicle of the vessels penetrating the bone, which therefore dies when they are torn through at that part. The nourishment and growth of bone depends on the sympathy of foe bony ? particles between the capillary vessels and the blood, (p. 361.) But it can be distinctly ' shown by experiments on beasts, (which for this purpose are better than birds,) that the ^ formation of the new tube is partly effected by the exudation, during foe exudative ^ stage, upon the surface of the bone, which is to be viewed as exudation from the in- flamed bone, and not from the periosteum, but that the greater part of foe bony mass « ^ alone formed (in internal necrosis) by foe spongy swelling of foe external layer which t continues during the whole period of suppuration.” (p. 405.) Lawrie of Glasgow (a) in treating on the subject of necrosis, asks;—“ hat does the dead bone play in this process ? does it act as a stimulant to the deposit of ossific ^ i matter ? does it serve as a mould for the new bone ? if it were removed, would the pre- cess be arrested ? To all of these questions I would replj^ in the negative. I do not th^ that the presence of dead bone is more required to assist in any of the processes involvea in the above queries than the presence of a slough of foe soft parts in the generation o (a) Cases of Necrosis, witli Uemurks ; in London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Scie»w< vol. Hi. 1843.