413 IN INJURIES OF THE HEAD. (especially Petit, Quesnay, Pott, Sabatier, Louvrier, Mursinna, Zang, Schindler, and otliers) apply tlie trepan more generally, do not restrict it to the appearance of secondary symptoms, but determine its ne- cessity according to the injury which is always to be feared on account of the peculiar condition of the' coverings of the brain. Trepanning is, in their opinion, a preventive remedy in most cases. 430. The reasons which the former surgeons offer in support of their opinion are : 1. Experience shows, that in fractures of the skull, with and without im- pression, under proper treatment, tlie cure very often takes place, as they are counterbalanced, or the brain becomes accustomed to the pressure. Trepanning should therefore not be performed before the most pressing symptoms of irritation or pressure require it. 2. The same applies to effusions of blood, the absorption of which experience also shows may take place. 3. Trepanning is an operation not free from danger; to the existing injur)*^ fresh violence is added, the result of which cannot be determined. A more especial ground of danger in the operation is, that the coverings of the brain are bared. If inflammation then ensue, the brain is thrust up into the opening, the dura mater ulcerates, fungous excrescences (1), and so on, protrude; this occurs particularly in children, in whom the dura mater is firmly connected with the skull. (Abernethy.) [(1) Fungus of the brain, after trephining, is not within my knowledge of so fre- quent occurrence as Abebnethy’s observations would infer. I have seen and operated on several cases of compound depressed fracture of the skull, and can scarcely recollect an instance of fungus, when the operation was performed early and the dura mater was uninjured. The fear of it, therefore, should not deter the surgeon from using the tre- phine in compound fracture.—J. F. S.] 431. To these objections it is replied, that the condition of the internal table of the skull, which is fragile, brittle, and glasslike, renders the frac- ture in it of greater extent than in the outer table, and that it spreads in a radiated form, and is accompanied with splintering; that in these injuries the vessels connecting the dura mater with the skull are torn, and that effusion of blood will occur. If it be remembered that in sabre and shot- wounds these conditions must be so much more certainly present, that in all tliese injuries the diploe is so bruised that inflammation and suppuration must occur, so it must be perceived that the absence of pressure and irrita- tion can afford no certainty, as if these have once set in. the brain and its investments are already so decidedly diseased that trepanning can be rarely considered as a means of cure. The same happens also in employing the trepan in extravasation of blood. If the surgeon, in expectation of ab- sorption in these cases, delay trepanning till the symptoms have arisen to a high degree, is it not then to be feared that, on account of the active in- flammation of the brain and its membranes, perhaps even on account of the putrid state of the extravasated blood,little more can be done by trepanning ? They cannot deny that fractures of the skull with and without impression have been cured without trepanning; and it may be even added, that of ten cases which were trepanned, under the above-mentioned circumstances in two the operation was perhaps unnecessary (which, however, could not have been previously determined.) But if the patient be trephined upon the app^rance of the consecutive symptoms, the result will be unsatis- factory in most cases. Trepanning is not to be considered in itself as a