137 TREATMENT OF 119. Benignant frequently occurs without manifest cause, even in healthy persons; commonly in poor persons, who live in unhea.lthy neighbourhoods, eat bad food, and are very much reduced by preceding disease ; also with impurities of the bowels. Carbuncle is in most cases the consequence of metastasis of deleterious matter (rheumatic or gouty.) It takes place at every age, in either sex, at every season of the year, but espe- cially in the great lieats of summer. The Malignant Carbuncle is never con- nected with previous fever. (English surgeons generally do not hold with the metastatic origin of carbuncle, but believe it rather dependent on disturbance of the digestive organs, or on general disturb- ance or break-up of the constitution. Thus, it is often noticed in women on the subsi- dence of menstruation, but more commonly in elderly men who have lived freely and worn their constitutions out. Raver says that carbuncle occurs most frequently in spring and summer; and our author that it happens especially in the great heats of summer. I have not, however, observed it more common at one than another time of the year.— J.F. S.] 120. The danger of carbuncle depends on its size, seat, on the presence of many such swellings, on the constitution of the patient, and the general disease connected with it. [Astley Cooper observes:—“ Carbuncle generally does well, except when situated on the head or neck. Though persons recover from carbuncles of an enormous size upon the back, yet very small ones on the head or neck will often destroy: indeed, I never saw a patient who recovered from any considerable carbuncle upon the head; in these casf« there is effusion upon the brain, producing compression.” (p. 243.) Carbuncle on thu head is rare; I have not seen above two or three cases of it.—J. F. S.] 121. In the Benignant Carbuncle, the internal treatment is always guided by the difference of the fever and the cause of the carbuncle. A strict anti- phlogistic treatment is rarely indicated, but rather in most cases a mild sudorific treatment, emptying of the intestinal canal, emetics and the em- ployment of dilute mineral acids. When the powers of the patient sink, which always happens on the occurrence of mortification, a more strenolh- ening treatment is needed. ° 122. The local trea,tment consists in making very early a cross cut of sufiicient depth, by which the constriction of the cellular tissue is relieved. le wound is to be bandaged witli stimulating digestive salves, the sloue-hv cellular tissue to be removed, and an endeavour made to produce ffood sup- puration. If sloughs have formed, still the cuts must be made, or the pre- vious openinp enlarged, the sloughs removed, (which treatment is pre- terable to the use of the actual cautery, butyr of antimony and other caustics,) in order to make an escape for the gangrenous juiL, collected ben^th them and to prevent its acting on the whole organism. The further patment is to be after the rules laid down for gangrene. It is not true that merely softening poultices do harm, and favour the proo-ress of the repeated experience has proved to me, that, after proper divi- sion of the carbuncle by a cross cut, the cure is effected most simnW bw ti ^ continued use of softening poultices. I J y ^he buncle. I have often Satisfied myself that it was treatment of car- the skin, the edges of which, after^separation of the preserve grenoSjule^nd thJ°dS^^ °*itlet forthTcolleSg g^^^^