738 URINARY pleta interna) usually occurs in tlie urethra, rarely in the ureters or • bladder, and depends on tearing by external violence, retention of urine « neighbouring abscesses, ulcers, rough catheterism, or an imprisoned stone! ! The diagnosis depends on tlie previous symptoms, on tlie sensation of pain ji during or after passing water, on the bloody purulent discharge from tlieiJ urethra, but especially on a swelling, which increases during micturition diminishes or disappears entirely by pressure, in consequence of which i urine mixed with pus. Hows from the urethra, or on the appearance of an j undefined extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue. In persons wlio have lost flesh by sweating or in any other way, there often oochts,*. i ■ without any previous contagion, a flow of mucus from the urethra, and a swelling at■ some part of its neighbourhood, which runs into suppuration, bursts, and gives escape . ■ to the urine, in which the flow of mucus from the bladder continues, but without any i stricture existing. The destruction of the urethra depends on ulceration of the mucous -t ■ membrane or abscesses in the lacuna: (a). [This incomplete fistula I have seen though not very frequently, and have more com- . monly observed it in front of the perinaum, and involved in the scrotum, sometimes at its j i hind and at other times in its front part. It has been exceedingly well described by i 1 Brodie in the following terms :—“ 1 shall next describe a case which used to perplex i ■ me very much when I first met with it. A patient may come to you who has, perha|i6,^ i had gonorrhoea formerly, which has been followed by a stricture, perhaps a very sligbtj 1 one, of the urethra, or at any rate there has been a discharge from the urethra, which-t ; he calls an obstinate gleet, telling you at the same time that nothing will cure it. You ' examine the perina:um, and you find in it a little tumour, not bigger apparently than a t [ horse-bean or filbert. You can just feel it, at some distance below the skin, and the patieut u i tells you that he has had it ever since he has been the subject of this obstinate gleet, and k : that sometimes there is a little pain in it. Now such a little hard tumour is nothingq i more nor less than a blind fistula. There is a small orifice in the urethra, and a narrow < - channel communicating with it, which leads into a cavity in the centre of this hard i i lump, and every time the patieut makes water a very small portion of urine finds its s t way into this cavity. In consequence of the smallness of the central cavity and the » great deposit of solid matter on its outside, the fluctuation of fluid in it is not perceptible, t i Such a case as this is not a very uncommon occurrence, and I have known a patient :■ j labour under this sort of hard lump in the perinceum for many successive years, saffering ^ | a good deal of inconvenience from it, but not suffering excessively. I have cared t several cases of this kind by a very simple process. All that you have to do is to makei> ( an opening into the cavity in the centre of the tumour. But the cavity is very smattd t and how are you to find it? You may run a lancet into it; but it is very probable that a j it may pass on one side of the cavity, and therefore some management is necessaiy in ii j performing the operation. You are to introduce the lancet a little obliquely, so that* | you may, as it were, almost cut the tumour in half. When you have done this the blood a | aud the deep-seated situation of the tumour prevent you seeing whether you have made a f the opening into the central cavity or not. Introduce a piece of lint, so as to prevents j the wound uniting by the first intention. Two or three days afterwards you take out j the lint, and then you ascertain whether, when the patient makes water, any comes by ■‘ ij the opening made with the lancet. If this be the case you may be certain that you have ^ penetrated into the cavity, and then you have only to dilate the urethra with a proper* !j instrument and the patient will get well. But if you find that the urine does not flow ■' j thi’ough the artificial opening, you may thus proceed;—Introduce a piece of caustic y [ potash through the opening you have made dowm to the bottom of it, in the centre of t t the tumour, so as to make a slough there. A portion of the tumour will slough out, and it is most probable that the cavity in the centre will be exposed, and then a cure t i follows. You should apply the caustic potiish in such a manner that it may act on tl* i. part on which you wish to act, defending at the same time the neighbouring tc-xtufe^i^ | the skin especially, by washing it with vinegar.” (p. 489.)] : 947. Complete urinary Fistula (^Fistula urhiaria completa) is the most > ^ common. Its internal opening arises either from the kidneys, ureters.'! bladder or urethra, and its external aperture, often very far distant front/j the internal, is found in the loins, in the groin, above the share-bone, in (a) CooPKK, Astley.