36 SUPPURATION. and on touching it fluctuation {Schwappung, Germ.) is felt. In order to be assured of this, tlie fingers may be pressed alternately upon the swelling, or, what is preferable, the finger or the flat hand may be laid on the side of the swelling, while this is gently tapped with the fingers upon the other, by which the undulations of the pus are communicated to the hand. The skin becomes transparent at the most elevated part, and the pus ls seen through it; finally, the skin breaks by the process of continued absorption, and the pus is discharged. If the parts covering the abscess are unyield- ing, an extension of the suppuration takes place in various directions before it makes its way out (2). If the inflammation be slight, it often continues a long time without exhibiting any disposition to break. It is often very difficult to distinguish the transition to suppuration in inflam- mation of deeply situated or in internal organs. The usual appearances are—the symptoms of inflammation subside without crisis, the part does not return to its natural functions; it feels to the patient heavy, oppres- sive, or cold ; he has frequent shiverings; the appearances of hectic fever set in, burning heat of the hands and soles of the feet, especially after eating, circumscribed redness of the cheeks, emaciation, night-sweats, purgings,, and so on. Deep-seated fluctuation is felt, or the surface of the part exhibits an oedematous swelling. The symptoms of hectic fever accompany every considerable suppuration, and it is probable that this must be ascribed partly to the loss of the albumen and fibrin of the blood, and partly to the absorption of pus. The circumscription of the pus in the cavity of the abscess depends upon the efiFusion and coagulation of the plastic lymph, which occur during inflammation, whereby a cavity with smooth walls is produced, in which the capillary vessels are very strongly developed, so that the pus is shut off from the other cellular tissue, and its spreading from cell to cell is prevented. In cases in which the inflammation is not connected with plastic exudation this circumscription of the abscess does not take place; for instance, in many erysipelatous inflammations. If suppuration occur on the surface of serous membranes, there must always be first produced a considerable development of vessels. In structures which are very highly vascular, suppuration occurs more rapidly. The walls of the abscess must be considered as secreting and absorbing surfaces. In the resorption of pus, (by the veins and lymphatic vessels,) it is mixed with the blood and separated from it by the colatories of the body, specially the lungs and kidne}^ or is deposited in the tissue of parts (metastatic abscesses;) it is, however, undetermined whether the pus is deposited as such or is produced by the after-changes which com- monly occur in the inflammatory exudation (Vogel.) As the pus-corpuscles are larger than those of the blood, they cannot pass through the capillary vessels, and therefore only the serum of the pus is absorbed, or the pus-corpuscles are broken down, and can then also be absorbed. We must not confoimd with this the entry of pus into a torn vein, or its formation by phlebitis in the vein and its further passage onwards with the blood. In regard to the operation of absorbed pus. Bonnet supposes that the absorption of good, cream-like pus, which has not been changed by the action of the air, will not produce any peculiar symptoms, because with it nothing enters into the blood but what is natural'to it; buh if in depraved putrid pus hydrosulphate of ammonia be developed with a residue of ammonia, and be absorbed with the serum or pus, a septic poison is introduced into the blood, the presence of which has been ascer- tained by Bonnet in the blood, and its separation in the urine. [(1) “ The true inflammatory disposition and action,” says Hunter, “ almost immedi- ately ceases upon the commencement of suppuration; and, altliough the vessels may nearly in the same state, yet they are in a much more quiescent state than Iwfore, and have acquired a new mode of action.” • * * And he asserts, “ as an invariable fact, that no suppuration takes place which is not preceded by inflammation; that is, no pus is formed but in consequence of it.” * * * " The immediate state of marts which may be called the immediate cause of suppuration, I conceive to be such as cannot carry on its usual functions of life, and which state of parts I have called the state of imperfection, let the cause of that state be what it will; we have shown that irritaUon