159 GONORRHCEA IN FEMALE. 156. The continuance of these symptoms varies. In slight cases they soon pass by, tlie discharge gradually diminishes, and (under proper management, commonly in from tliree to four weeks) completely ceases. Frequently, it becomes chronic, and the discharge {gleet) assumes a thin serous ropy character, appears in very small quantity, especially in the morning, after emptying the bladder or after any irritation, and may in this state continue for many months or even years. The discharge from gonorrhoea is very much affected by constitutional causes, says AsTLEr Cooper. Thus, if with “ abundant discharge, considerable pain, and even chor- dee, the patient should get a fever, the discharge disappears, the pain ceases, and he will be entirely free from all symptoms of the disease for a period of from seventeen to twenty days. As soon, however, as he begins to recover from his fever, the discharge of matter will recur, the pain and chordee return, and a long time may elapse before the disease can be removed.” (p. 191-)] 157. The consequences of gonorrhcea by the changes it produces on the mucous membrane of the urethra are thickening, narrowing, stricture, and swelling of the prostate gland. 158. In the female the vagina is the seat of gonorrhoea. The inflam- mation spreads externally upon the labia, urethra and clitoris. Painful tickling arises in these parts, and soon a copious flow of differently condi- tioned mucus takes place which produces excoriation, and the gonorrhcea is easily propagated to the rectum (1). The voidance of urine is painful. The symptoms of gonorrhoea are generally less distinct in women than in men; the mucous discharge, however, soon becomes chronic and very obstinate. The detailed symptoms, the manner of its origin, as well as the occurrence of menstruation and the unchanged colour of the face, distin- guish female gonorrhoea from the whites {fiuor alhus vel leucorrhced) (2). [(l) When the urethra had been affected with the disease, Ricord states, that “ on introducing the finger into the vagina, and pressing the convexity of the urethra, pus was seen to proceed from the interior of the canal, whose surface, as seen through the meatus urinarius, appeared swollen.” (p. 173; Fr. edit., p. 332.) “ The acute urethritis is seldom accompanied by retention of urine, and, when it does exist, it is generally of short duration, and yields to antiphlogistic treatment; but, nevertheless, sometimes it requires the use of the catheter, which ought to be introduced with the parts exposed, notwithstanding the objections raised, as less pain will be caused than if the surgeon have to feel his way.” (p. 322 ; Fr. edit., p. 678.) _ In the five cases which Ricord describes as utero-vaginal gonorrhoea, and which inoculation proved not to be syphilitic, there was, besides a purulent discharge from the mouth of the womb, upon the cervix uteri, “ either an ulceration in form of a blister, (p. 161; Fr. edit., p. 310); or several points deeply eroded with a grayish surface, covered with albuminous adhering secretion (p. 162; Fr. edit., p. 313) ; or a bleeding ulceration Cp. 166 ; Fr. edit, p. 320); or a superficial granulated ulceration, penetrating to the cavity of the cervix uteri (p. 172; Fr. edit., p. 332); or erosion at several points, as in some cases of balanitis.” (p. 175; Fr. edit., p. 335.) ^ Hunter says that “ sometimes the bladder sympathises, producing the same symptoms D IS probable that the irritation may be communicated to the kidnevs It hM been asserted that the ovaria are sometimes affected in a similar way to the testi- ^ ^ ^ ■^ery much doubt of its instance in other diseases of the ovaria sympathising with those parts or at east producing such symptoms as would enable us to determine^ they did ” (p. 68.) Ricord, however, does believe in the occurrence of ovaritis as a comnlication of gonorrhcea, and speaks of its treatmeant. ovarius as a complication Not unfrequently the labia swell under a sharp attack of gonorrhoea and the nvmnhm observed’ in nhfmosis or mrnnl,; twisted, similar to that sometimes kind of phim^osis or p’araphimLis'””and'he sneT^^’f compares it to “ a gangrene, which, however, 1 do n’ot recollecSLt ote“ved'"''°“^ ^ terminating in,