383 OF THE SCALP. ■ on the injury of tlie brain, wliicli eitlier occurs at the same time ^ the ( .wound itself, or comes on afterwards. They must tlierefore be considered 1 under a double point of view, in so far as tJie various coverings of the brain \are injured, or diseased affections of the organ itself are therelnj produced. ■ In the former view are distinguished, 1. Injuries of the soj't parts upon mhe skull; 2. of the skull itself; 3. of the membranes, arid of the brain itself. The diseased conditions which they produce in the brain itself are, 1. Concussion; 2. Inflammation; 3. Compression of the brain. 381. All kinds of injuries may occur in the soft parts upon the skull: they may either simply penetrate through the skin, through the aponeurotic covering, through the frontal, temporal, and occipital muscles, or into the pericranium. Incised wounds require union, according to the ordinary rules, which, after the hair in the immediate neighbourhood has been shaved off, may be effected by sticking plaster and a proper bandage. Bleeding from the temporal, frontal, or occipital artery, may be stanched either by the proper union of the wound and compression of the artery against the bone, or more certainly by tying the vessel. The healing soon follows, under proper treatment. From improper and especially from irritating treatment, from the unsatisfactory condition of the patient, from catching cold, and 50 on, especially in persons of a bilious constitution, a considerable swell- ing not unfrequently arises in wounds penetrating only the scalp, which spreads over the whole head and face, the ears and eyelids; it is not verj’ tender to the touch, retains the impress of the finger, its yellowish red colour, as in erysipelas, fades on pressure with the finger, but soon returns, and is connected with fever, headache, disposition to vomit, irrita- :ion of the brain, delirium, and coma. These symptoms are, under proper treatment, generally not dangerous, the wound looks well; blood-letting ind gentle purging, with simple treatment of the wound, avoiding all irri- tation, in general speedily remove them, and the skin scales off. 382. If the aponeurosis of the skull and the pericranium be injured, there frequently arises, particularly in stabs, from inflammation of these fibrous structures, an elastic, reddish swelling, painful to the touch, generally less extensive than in the former case, but always connected in its aftercourse with extensive erysipelas, with a doughy state of the integu- ment, with severe headache, fever, loss of sleep, and delirium. Suppura- :ion, with destruction of the cellular tissue, quickly ensues, in which case, f the pericranium be attacked, it separates to a great extent from the skull, ind the inflammation may be propagated to the dura mater. In this case, ooth general and local blood-letting, with purgatives and cold application, 0 the head, must be simultaneously applied. The most certain modes lowever, of preventing all dangerous symptoms, or of setting them aside, s to make cuts very early into the swelling, for the purpose of discharging che collected fluid and the dead cellular tissue. Warm applications and Poultices may here also be employed very advantageously. I' 383. Flap Wounds of the Coverings of the Skull, even when a consider- Ig ible portion of the bone is laid bare, must always, after careful cleansing of Ii-he flaps, be closely brought together with sticking plaster and with some iMitches (1), Charpie and a compress are to be laid upon the flaps, and their > 2onnexion assisted with a suitable head-bandage. In most cases the flaps 'jnite completely, but many only in part. If suppuration take place, a ^iroper outlet mast be provided for the pus; if a fluctuating swelling-form I- must be opened at once, and the union of the flaps assisted by “proper