f(l) The usual absence of union in these fractures must be attributed solely to the Idifficulty of keeping the fractured surfaces in close apposition and at perfect rest, to both "of which conditions the muscles offer great obstacles. But if these can be overcome, there is ample proof, as will be hereafter specially shown, that such fractures can unite. And that want of union does not depend on want of power to secrete bone, is proved by the large masses of bone often produced about the fractured parts, although no union .occurs, of which examples in fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, of the condyles lof the upper arm-bone, and of the coronoid process of the cubit, are in the museum at St. Thomas’s, as well as in many others.—J. F. S.] 'FREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. 503 580. If the ends of the fracture touch only partially, they unite at that part alone, and mostly this partial connexion is surrounded with a consider- able groxoth of callus. This is also the case when the ends of the fracture are split. The growth of callus may be therefore consequent on a too loose bandaging, because the broken ends are not thereby kept in apposition. 581. The treatment of fractures consists generally, 1. In the proper disposition of the fracture, if the broken ends have been displaced. 2. Ixi retaining the ends of the fracture in their proper corresponding position xuith a suitable apparatus. 3. In preventing and getting rid of the consecutive symptoms. 582. Before proceeding to the arrangement of the fracture, the parts must be carefully unclothed; and also, in the necessary transport of the njured party, great care must be taken that the ends of the fracture be not more displaced, and do not injure the soft parts. The setting (Hepositio, Lat.; Einrichtung, Germ.; Eeduction, Fr.) of the fracture consists in overcoming the contraction of the muscles by extension and counter-extension, and then by direct pressure, to bring the txvo ends of the fracture into actual contact ( Conformatio, Coaptatio.) Extension and counter-extension are made by assistants, the one holding the limb below the upper, and the other above the lower joint of the broken bone, and drawing in opposite directions; but first always in that of the lower piece of bone, and afterwards in that of the limb. When sufficient extension has been made, that is, when the ends of the fracture are some- what separated from each other, the Surgeon, grasping them with both hands, must endeavour to bring them into corresponding position and con- tact, and to smooth all irregularities. 583. The retention of the limb in this position depends on the appa- ratus, during the application of which the proper degree of extension and counter-extension must be kept up. The apparatus must completely en- Iclose the whole limb, by its regular pressure must render the displacement of the ends of the bone impossible, and prevent the motions of the limb. For this are requisite—1st. The swathing of the whole limb with several strips of bandage, (or with the eighteen or twenty-tailed bandage,) or in the jupper extremity with a common circular bandage, after a compress has been put upon the seat of fracture (1). These parts of the apparatus must previous ;to their application be moistened with a resolvent lotion, as for example, lead wash, if continued moisture seem fitting for the prevention or dimi- nution of severe inflammation, otherwise they should be applied dry, and are to be put on neither too tight nor too loose. 2dly. The application of splints. These are either flexible and take on the form of the limb, as plints of pasteboard, of leather, of flexible wood, of wooden or fishbone « rods sewed up in linen ; or they are inflexible, of firm wood, or of lead, 'Hmore or less corresponding to the form of the limb (2). The firm unyielding