ERYSIPELAS—Inflammation of Cellular lissue. 103 vesicles burst, a whitish ichorous fluid is discharged, whitish or blackish spots appear which quickly spread, the cellular tissue is thrown off in large patclies, the skin is entirely separated from tlie underlying parts, all the connecting cellular tissue between the muscles is destroyed, the skin becomes gangrenous, the suppuration is very plentiful and offensive, the destruction spreads and exhaustion follows with copious sweats, purging, and so on. If the patient’s powers revive, and the disease be arrested, the fornvition of granulations and cicatrization is always very tedious, on account of the great destruction of the cellular tissue (1). If the masses deposited be solid, they sink into the substance of the cellular tissue, inflame and harden it, and destroy its vital relations, without causing actual death. This degeneration frequently does not occur until after several weeks, and appears with accompanying redness of the skin and with a somewhat painful, far-spread, deep-seated hardening (2). The termination of this disease (which Kluge has commonly observed in the scrotum, and which I have seen upon the hand and fore arm) is either a tedious resolution with gradual subsidence of the redness and hardness, or death of the de- generated organ, in which the size of the part is increased, the previous hardness becomes doughy, fluctuation takes place, and the above-described destruction and ichorousness ensues (a). [(1) This is the inflammation of the cellular tissue, to which I slightly adverted at p. 72 ; and, although very commonly confused with erysipelas, or, as by Chelius, with erythema, it is decidedly ditferent from either, although both occasionally run into it. John Hunter was well acquainted with it, as will be presently seen, though he included it with erythema, under the common title erysipelatous inflammation, which he does not describe at all. He says:—“ The erysipelatous inflammation is very peculiar; and most inflammations that are not of the true adhesive and suppurative kind are called so, although probably they do not in the least belong to it; and this may arise more from the_ want of terms, than the want of discrimination.” (p. 2C9.) After describing erythema, which it is quite certain he means, restricting it to the skin, he proceeds “ When it (the inflammation) goes deeper than the skin into the cellular membrane, it often suppurates; but then I suspect it is not the true erysipelatous; for, in such cases, it com- monly produces mortification in the cells, by which air is let loose; this gives a strange feel, neither of fluctuation nor crepitation, and, as there are no adhesions, the matter finds an easy ^ssage into the common cellular membrane, increasing the same kind of suppu- ration wherever it comes ; and, as mortification is a consequence of these inflammations, putrefaction ensues, and the discharge becomes very offensive. * * * When it produces suppuration in the cellular membrane it is often dangerous, both from the m^ase itself and the consequences of the matter diffusing itself much farther. * * * 1 he sores seldom ulcerate; they should be opened early, or the matter either gets into membrime from the want of adhesions, or it separates parts that are onlv attached, as the periosteum from the bone, muscles fi-om muscles, etc. Whereas the true to buref”^^(p^T^^^ which therefore should not be opened early, but allowed _ So far as it goes. Hunter has well described this disease; but he speaks of it as if ITri rare than its folloS eSleLf which he does not mention at all. It is perfectly true that, from both these disrases the T may descend, and attack the cellular tissue; but very comLraly the swi'lling, tension and dusky redness of thp limK f ^ *■ ® It commences with. mUies.) i, very painful .nYteado^y fel’ < well as upwards if it have commenc^ on thn Pleads very rapidly, downwards as »»«p.uied with large veaieationa loaded («) Kmjok ; in Rust, as above, p. 525.