361 dog-madness. and other fluids (4) ; generally they do not exhibit any increased disposition to sexual congress (5). Their external appearance at the very beginning of the disease is little or not at all changed ; about the second or third day the eyes usually become reddened, and in most instances are occasionally closed for a few seconds ; at the same time the skin on the forehead and above the eyes is drawn into little folds or wrinkles, in consequence of which the animal has a sleepy, surly, fretful appearance. Subsequently the eyes become dull and languid, but never fiery and lively, as at first; most have a rough, rugged appearance, and all in a short time become remarkably wasted. The mouth is in most cases rather dry than moist, and therefore generally without foam or spittle; but when the pharynx is decidedly affected, and the descent of the spittle probably hindered by its swelling, then is there an exception (6). So long as the dog has power, and so long as it is not pursued, it carries its tail as usual, wagging it cheerfully, as it may fancy ; but as weakness comes on the tail hangs down loosely, though never more drawn beneath the body than usual. The gait is not altered at the beginning of the disease; they do not proceed, as com- monly believed, only straight forward and in the same course, but if undisturbed run about in various directions and wanderings, trot very ac- tively along the road, and only when a paroxysm seizes them spring aside, in order to bite (7). Many dogs, however, which run away in a be- wildered state, and the greater number at a later period of the disease, when they have become confused, run straight forward in one direction, till they drop down worn out, or are driven to change their course from some acci- dental circumstance. In dumb madness the animal also changes its manner, becomes less lively nd watchful, more quiet, restful, and melancholy; the lower jaw drops, if paralysed ; the spittle flows down to the ground, and everything, ven fluid, which the animal wishes to swallow, drops from its mouth (8) ; it can, therefore, bite but little, as the inclination to bite, to run, and even to restlessness, is diminished. All the other symptoms resemble those of iving madness. The course of the disease is in both forms very various nd entirely indefinite. In all cases it runs on to death, and generally by idual, but daily, visible wasting of the living powers, in from six to sight days after the first attack ; sometimes death occurs earlier, and the inimal dies suddenly, as if from apoplexy (9). [The following important additions are from Youatt’s recent and very excellent vork, The Dog;— (1) “The early symptoms of rabies in the dog are occasionally very obscure. In be greater number of cases, these are sulleuness, fidgettiness, and continual shifting of KWture. Where I have had opportunity, I have generally found these circumstances in egular succession. For several consecutive hours, perhaps, he retreats to his basket or IS bed. He shows no disposition to bite, and he answers the call upon him laggardly. le IS curled up, and his face is buried between his paws and his breast. At length he ‘gins to be fidgetty; he searches out new resting-places, but he very soon changes them or others. He takes again to his own bed. but he is continually shifting his posture te begins to gaze strangely about him as he lies on his bed. His countenance is clouded na suspicious. He comes to one and another of the family, and he fixes on them a Kaatast gaze, as if he would read their very thoughts. ‘ I feel strangely ill,’ he seems to do with it ? or you ? or you ?’ Has not a dog mind enough 3r tms/ If we have observed a rabid dog at the commencement of the disease, we have fill nevP^rW ^ ’’ delirium is an early symptom, and one that mm rmP^hpl^’ ^ been bitten by one of his dogs, 1 was requested ■r™d the '‘a ^ behind my time. As 1 en- - ett the room 1 found the dog eagerly devouring a pan of sopped bread. ‘ There is no