SPINE-DISEASE. 277 In the third stage, there is always found, beneath the skin, in the cellular tissue, a red (I bloody ichorous'fluid; the soft parts, skin and cellular tissue, easily melt, and are li ce jelly; bones, tendons, and ligaments are found covered with a white cheesy substance. The capsular membrane is soft, thickened, and grayish-red; in the cavity of the synovial ! membrane there is also found a cheesy gray matter, which sticks tightly to its walls. If ^ • there be ulcers, the bones are stripped of periosteum, rough, and covered with an ichorous > pus-like matter. The ulcers form fistulas which pass in all directions, backwards ana I' forwards through the lardy mass to the bones and cartilages, are lined with a soft j brane, to, and upon, which, at different parts, large vessels proceed aud ramify. Ihe 11 mass of vessels is iii this stage less than in the two former; the large veins and almost all the arteries are obliterated.” (pp. 149-153.) i 256. The prognosis and treatment are determined by the different seat of the disease, according to the foregoing rules. IV.—INFLAMMATION IN THE JOINTS OF THE VEETEBR^. (Pottos Disease, Spondylartlirocace.) 257. This disease may take place in all parts of the spinal column, and its symptoms vary accordingly. Sometimes without any cause, sometimes after a fall or contusion, after catching cold, or after debility from masturbation, pain occurs in the spinal column, which is variable and indistinctly marked, and which increases and diminishes, without entirely subsiding. The spine does not present, upon examination, the least change. Pressure does not increase the pain. After a time, projection of one or more spinous processes is noticed ; the motions of the body are unsteady; the patient can still walk, but he soon tires; the pain increases, and fixes itself at the projecting part; movement of the feet becomes more difficult; they at last lose their sensibility, and become quite paralysed ; at the same time there are symptoms of palsy of the bladder and rectum (1). According to the different seat of the disease on the lumbar or dorsal vertehrcB, the patient has distension of the belly, weight at the stomach, pain along the ribs, pain in the lower limbs, shortness of breath, attacks of suffocation, and symptoms of phthisis; finally, collections of pus appear under the crural arch, in the inguinal canal, in the neiglibour- hood of the rectum, on the sides of the spine, and so on (2). In such cases hectic fever soon destroys the powers of the patient. In rare cases, tlie collected pus makes its way inwards, into the belly, into a bowel, into the cavity of the chest, or into the lungs, as I have once seen. This disease is often, at first, unaccompanied by pain (3) ; the spinous pro- cesses jut out, without the patient suspecting any disease at this place; subsequently he complains of weight in the legs; they soon get tired, and suffer spasmodic contractions; collections of pus form more rapidly. Often the spinous processes do not jut out, especially if the ulceration be spread over a large extent of the spine. In the dorsal and lumbar vertebree, the curving of the spinal column usually occurs as an angular projection back- wards ; sometimes it also projects sideways, sometimes in that direction only, and in the most rare cases the projection is forwards (4). Pott says“ To this distemper both sexes and all ages are equally liable. * * * When it attacks an infant of only a year or two old, or under, the true cause of it is seldom discovered until some time after the effect has taken place, at least not by parents and nurses, who know not where to look for it. The child is said to be uncommonly in the use of his legs, or it is thought to have received some hurt in the birth. 1 V\ hen It affects a child who is old enough to have already walked, and who has been able to walk, the loss of the use of his legs is gradual, though in general not very slow. He at first complains of being very soon tired, is languid, listless, and unwilling to