ABSCESS. 37 simply is not always sufficient, it often only brings on the adhesive stage, which is in most cases intended to prevent the suppurative.” (p. 372.) “ In spontaneous suppu- rations, one, two, three, or more parts of the inflammation lose the power of resolution, and assume exactly the same disposition with those of an exposed surface, or a surface in contact with an extraneous body. If it is in the cellular membrane that this dis- position takes place, or in the investing membranes of circumscribed cavities, their vessels now begin to alter their disposition and mode of action, and continue changing till they gradually form themselves to that state which fits them to form pus; so that the eflect or discharge is gradually changing from coagulating lymph to pus: hence we commonly find in abscesses both coagulating lymph and pus, and the earlier they are opened, the greater is the proportion of the former.” (p. 378.) “ Should the exudation become purulent, this gelatin (viz. that which is interstitial to the eorpuscles) acquires fluidity,” says Valentin, “ and the plus globules then swim in the liquor puris, sink tessellated to the bottom, and surround themselves with cells, which subsequently undergo trauformation in accordance with certain laws into exuda- tion fibres or exudation membranes.” (pp. 215, 216.) “ This (suppurative) inflammation has symptoms common to inflammation in general; but,” says Hunter, “ it has these in a greater degree than the inflammation leading to it, and has also some symptoms peculiar to itself: * * * it gives as much as possible the idea of simple pain without having a relation to any other mode of sensation: * * * the pain is increased at the time of the dilating of the arteries, which gives the sensation called throbbing, * * * perhaps one of the best characteristics of this species of inflammation. [This observation, as already noticed, (p. 23,) is incor- rect.—J. F. S.] When the inflammation is moving from the adhesive state to the suppurative, the pain is considerably increased (and which would seem to be the extent of this operation in the part;) but when suppuration has taken place the pain in j; some degree subsides. * * * The redness that took place in the adhesive stage is now increased, and is of a pale scarlet: this is the true arterial colour, and is to be accounted a constant symptom, as we find it in all internal inflammations, when at any It time exposed, as well as in those that are external.” The dilatation of the old vessels, li and the formation of new ones, which had occurred in the first or adhesive state of the inflammation, “ are here carried still further in the surrounding parts, which do not suppurate, and constitute two other causes of this redness being increased by the vessels I becoming more numerous, and the red part of the blood being pushed more forward into I many vessels, where only the serum and coagulating lymph went before. The part I which was firm, hard, and swelled, in the first stage, now becomes still more swelled Iby the greater dilatation of the vessels and greater quantity of extravasated coagulating I lymph thrown out in order to secure the adhesions. The oedematous swelling sur- tr rounding the adhesive gradually spreads into the neighbouring parts. ^ * There is a j;certain period in the inflammation, when the suppurative disposition takes place, I'which is discovered by new symptoms taking place in the constitution, viz. shivering.” (p. 377-79.) “ The vessels are but little changed from the adhesive state at the commencement j ;of the suppurative disposition; so that they still retain much of the form they had ^acquired by the first state, the discharge being at the beginning little more than Ircoagulating lymph, mixed with some serum. This is scarcely difierent from the I ladhesive stage of the inflammation; but, as the inflammatory disposition subsides, the new disposition is every instant of time altering those vessels to their suppurative state; the discharge is also varying and changing from a species of extravasation to a new formed matter peculiar to suppuration; this matter is a remove further from the I nature of the blood, and beeomes more and more of the nature of the pus; it becomes I whiter and whiter, losing more and more of the yellow and green which it is apt to rgive the linen that is stained with it in its first stages, and in consistence more and more liFiscid or creamy.” (p. 415.) j. John Hunter describes that as “ an abscess in this part,” i. e. when “ collections of matter are found in parts where not formed, more especially in the deeper-seated ones, the matter moving from the seat where it was formed to some more depending part, ! or, having met with some obstruction in its course, it takes another directionwhilst ‘ abscesses which are commonly formed where matter is found, especially the more j .uperficial ones, may be justly called abscesses of this part. (p. 510.) f Suppuration akes place much more readily in internal canals than internal cavities • * » * more 'eadily upon the surface of canals than in either the cellular or investing membrane. Hie same cause which would produce a suppuration in the first parts (the canals) vould only produce the adhesive in the other (the cavities.)” (p. 377.)