264 (a) Above cited. TEEATMENT OF “ In the first place, the surface of the joint, suppose the knee, is to be carefully cleansed by a sponge, soft brown soap and warm water, and then thoroughly dried • neJct, this surface is to be rubbed by a sponge soaked in camphorated spirit of wine', and this is continued a minute or two, until it begins to feel warm, smarts somewhat' and looks red. It is now covered with a soft cerate made with equal parts of the cerol turn saponis and the tiiu/uentiim hijdrarqyri fortius cum camphoru. This is thickly spread on large square pieces of lint, and'applied entirely around the joint, extending for at least six inches above and below the point at which the condyles of the femur are opposed to the head of the tibia; over this, to the same extent, the limb is to be uni- formly supported by strips of calico, spread with the emplastrum plnmbi of the Lon- don Pharmacopmia. These strips are about an inch and a half broad, and vary in length ; some are fifteen inches, others a foot, others half these two lengths, and the shorter or longer are selected according to the size of the part round which they are to be applied. This js the only difficult part of the process. This adhesive bandage ought to be so applied as to preclude the motion of the joint, prevent the feeble coats of the blood-vessels from being distended by the gravitation of their contents in the erect posture, and thereby promote their contraction. Over this adhesive bandage, thus ap- plied, comes an additional covering of emplastrum saponis, spread on thick leather, and cut into four broad pieces, one for the front, the other for the back, the two others for the sides of the joint. Lastly, the whole is secured by means of a calico bandage, which is put on very gently, and rather for the purpose of securing the plaster and giving greater thickness and security to the whole, than for the purpose of compressing the joint. This is an important point, as otherwise an application which almost inva- riably affords security and ease, may occasion pain, with all its attendant mischief. “ In some cases in which the skin is thick and indolent, sufficient irritation will scarcely be excited by the above applications, and this may be promoted by rubbing on a small quantity of tartar emetic ointment previously to the application of the eerate. This, however, is rarely necessary. “ In some cases, also, it is desirable more effectually to prevent the motion of the limb, particularly in children. This may be done by applying on each side of the joint, externally to the plasters, a pieee of pasteboard, softened by soaking in water, and cut into the length, breadth, and form of splints. These being soft, will accommodate them- selves to the figure of the joint, and, when dry, effectually preclude all motion. “ I think this form of splint is infinitely preferable to those that are made of wood. It affords a very firm support to the limb, and at the same time counteracts the con- tracting effort of the muscles in as great a degree as can be effected without exciting inflammation. I have met with cases in which the diseased surfaces have been so for- cibly compressed, by means of wooden splints, as to excite inflammation, and thereby cause a more violent contracting effect of the muscles, the resistance of which has ag- gravated the disease.” (p. 133-37.) Upon this plan of treatment, Laatoence justly observes;—“ A question naturally arises, Avhether this free application of mercurial ointment to a large portion of the limb is of use in all the various diseases to Avhich joints are liable; for it is recom- mended by the Scotts, without any distinction as to the nature of the affection, Avhether originating in the synovial membrane, or in the articular surfaces, or from scrofulous disease of bones. This is a point that must be solved by experience, and I cannot say that I am possessed of such as will enable me to answer the question. I think we should be rather inclined to ask another question on the subject, and that is, whether this free application of mercurial ointment to so large a surface of the body, and that too to a surface which not uncommonly includes some portion of ulceration, can be considered as perfectly safe. That is Avhether there may not be an absorption of the mercury capable of producing certain effects upon the constitution.” Lawkesce says he has seen this treatment adopted in a few instances, and in one “that the life of the child Avas nearly lost by the effect produced from the absorption of the mercury on the system. It caused a serious affection of the boAvels, Avhich, in the first place, sheAved itself by pain, griping, and purging, and AA'hich then put on the appearance of a dysenteric affection, the child lost its appetite, became extremely thin, got a white tongue, and, in fact, seemed to be sinking as fast as it could. The dressings Avere, therefore, removed, and the child sent into the country, Avherc it quickly re- covered.” (pp. 51.'), IG.) These observations are sufficient to prove that this ment must be pursued Avith some caution, as some persons are more readily affected by mercurial applications than others, and in such serious mischief may accrue. FniCKE (a) has seen good results from this treatment.