457 THE BELLY. 6ccur, and the inflammation often spreads considerably. Only strict anti- phlogistic treatment and enlargement of the wound can remove these of the belly produce, by the concussion of the intestines, severe symptoms, as violent pain and tension of the belly, fever, often teanng of some intestine, extravasation into the cavity of the belly, and speedy death. Exudation of blood, or actual tearing of the vessels, may subsequently be producetl, by gorging with blood of the vessels weakened by the shock. Here at first is indicated the most strict antiphlogistic treatment, often repeated bleedings, leeches, cold applications, cupping, and subsequently exciting remedies, infriction of volatile ointments, lotions of alcohol and caustic lujuor amiHOuicE, application of aromatic herbs, and the administration of arnica internally. Jn bruises of the belly the muscles are often torn, whilst the skill remains uninjured ; in such cases, during the treatment, and after the consequent cure, pressure must be employed, to prevent the occurrence of rupture. The same caution is necessary in all wounds which penetrate the muscles; the patient must be put in such position as will entirely relax the abdominal coverings, and the union of the wound properly as- sisted by a broad belly-bandage. If connected with the wound there be bleeding from the epigastric, in- ternal mammary, or abdominal artery, it must be stanched, if possible, by ligature, for which purpose enlargement of the wound is requisite, or by pressure. [Traveks asserts that “where the integrity of the abdominal parietes is preserved, as in those which he has denominated simple wound, it is remarkable that efi'usion more generally follows. These are ruptures of the bowel, produced by falls or blows upon the belly, where the integuments are even unabraded.” (p. 36.)] 509. All wounds of the belly, even when superficial, must be treated antiphlogistically, because the inflammation easily spreads to the peritoneum If suppuration occur in the wound, the pus may collect in the cellular in- terstices of the muscles in their aponeurotic sheaths, or between the peri- toneum and the abdominal muscles. Pain arises therefrom, and a more or less deep-seated swelling, with distinct or indistinct fluctuation. In such cases the wound must be either enlarged in the manner already described, or the pus must be discharged at the most prominent part of the swelling, by a proper opening, and the abscess treated according to the general rules. 510. Penetrating Wounds of the Belly. If wounds of the belly be not large and direct, the bowels or caul do not project, and neither faeces, bile, nor any stercoraceous gas escapes through the wound, it is difficult to deter- mine whether they penetrate or not, for observation of the depth and direc- tion in which the injuring instrument enters, so far as the introduction of a probe will sliow, is not always certain (1). Tlie general symptoms also which usually accompany penetrating wounds of the belly, as small, weak, con- tracted pulse, pallid countenance, coldness of the extremities, great weak- ness, hiccough, vomiting, and swelling of the belly, are not always certain signs, as they occur also insensitive, faint-hearted persons, in simple super- ficial wounds of the belly. In large penetrating wounds we are directed by the sight and touch. [(1) The escape of the intestines from injury in penetrating wounds of the belly is very remarkable. Hennen says he has “ seen several; among others, he has been wit- recovery of a soldier who had been shot through the abdomen by a ramrod, which passed in anteriorly, and actually stuck in one of the transverse processes of the vertebra, from which it was not disengaged without the application of some force. This