VIRULENT GONORRHOEA. so often, regularly and constantly, that there was no reason to doubt but that it was owing to that cause.” (p. 245.) Everaud Home (a) says, he has “ known a simple gonorrhoea to be brought on by the internal use of arsenic, and to continue for some time after that medicine has been left off, and then disappear. He has also known it to be a consequence of the internal use of ginger.” (jiote, p. 35.) The discharge from the urethra which often arises in men after connexion with their wives, whilst labouring under leucorrhoea either in its mild or acute form, may be placed under this head. It sometimes is very severe. Hunter mentions a case of this kind. “ The parties have been married these twenty years and upwards; the wife has, for many years past, been at times troubled with the jluor albus. When he has connexion with her at such times, it generally, though not always, produces an excoriation of the glans and prepuce, and a considerable discharge from the urethra, attended with a slight pain. These symptoms commonly take a considerable time to go off, whether treated as a gonorrhoea or as a wealcness.” Hunter asks: “ Is this a new poison ? and does it go no farther because the connexion takes place only between two ? What would be the con- sequence if she were to have connexion with other men, and these with other women? or if he were to be connected with other women ? Such cases, as far as I have seen, have only been in form of a gonorrhoea; they have not produced sores in the parts, nor, as far as I know, do they ever produce constitutional diseases.” (p. 65.) All the dis- charges above enumerated must be included under the designation of gonorrhcca benigna seu simplex. (3) With regard to the second kind of gonorrhoea, mentioned by Chelius as “ depend- ing on peculiar contagious matter,” it is doubtless the so-called gonorrhcea virulenta; but I cannot agree with him that its “ influence does not spread beyond the urethra,” as, from the observations of other surgeons, as well as from my own, I am convinced that, in cer- tain persons, it does become a constitutional disease, and exhibit distinctive characters, although even Lawrence says that “ gonorrhoea consists of inflammation of a mucous surface, that of the urethra or vagina going through a certain course, coming to a natural end, and not attended with further effect than those which immediately occur in the parts conceived.” (p. 810.) [The following observation of Abernethy’s, is too important to pass by as coming from so high an authority, though I do not agree with it. “ I am ready to affirm,” says he, “ that I have of late years seen as little of what was called Gonorrhoea mmlenta when I was a young surgeon as I have of the syphilitic chancre. The Gonorrhcea viru- lenta was a most active inflammation in the front part of the urethra, the discharge was of very thick pus, having a peculiar aud very fetid odour. The disease began by de- grees, but soon' attained a considerable height, and continued on an average for three weeks ; at which time, or shortly afterwards, the inflammatory actions ceased, the dis- charge became less consistent, and lost its characteristic fetor. The running, however, still continued, and occasionally for a great length of time, rather, as it appeared, in consequence of the disturbance induced, than as an immediate effect of the disease; for 1 have known instances where the gonorrhoea has ceased without leaving any afterclap or gleet; and many in which this symptom, when it occurred, has been of very short duration.” (p. 276.) (4) It seems now generally admitted that gonorrhoea and syphilis are two decidedly distinct diseases, and therefore Chelius’s third division, “ Gonorrhoea with a venereal origin,” will not hold. The question of the identity of the diseases has been long and fiercely disputed in the schools; but the observations and experiments of Herna.nde* and Ricord have, to my mind however, put the matter completely at rest Of the existence of gonoiThoea, at least as early as the beginning of the 14th century, there seems to me no doubt. Beckett (6), indeed, says, [quoting from Stow’s Sun-ey of Loudon,) as early as the year 1162, “divers constitutions relating to the Lordship of Winchester were to be kept for ever according to the customs from time immemorial, among which it is ordered, that ‘ no stewholder keep any woman that hath the peri- lous injirmitu of burning.’” .Tohn of Gatesden, who practised about the year 1320, and was a fellow of Merton College, Oxford, wrote the llosa Anglicana, in which, among other things, he treats De Lepra, and, in one of the sections on this subject, en- titled, “ De infectione ex coitu leprosivel leprose,” he says, “ Primo notandum ut ille qui timet de excoriatione et arsura mrgoe post coitum statim lavet virgam cum aqua mixta aceto vel cum urina propria et nihil mali habebit. Secundo, oportet dicere muliori (a) J. Hunter on Venereal Disease. (i) An Attempt to prove the Antiquity of the West Indies, in a letter to Dr. James Douolas; Venereal Disease long before tlic Discovery of the in I’hil. Transact., 1718, No. 357, p. 839.