OF THE LEG. 257 and by the position he keeps in bed, the pelvis is so twisted tliat tlie hip- bone on tlie sound side is raised, and that on tlie diseased side depressed. In the subsequent course of tlie coxalgy, when the morbid changes in tlie joint have proceeded still further, there is real lengihenvng of the diseased extremity, which does not depend on mechanical disproportion between the liead of tlie thigh-bone and its socket, and the expulsion of the head of the bone on account of its increased bulk, but upon the extension oj the cap- sular ligament, 07i the collection of fluid, on the relaxation of the capsular ligament, and on Jiaccidity of the muscles. The most different reasons have been assigned for the lengthening of the extremity consequent on the supposed expulsion of the head of the thigh-bone from its socket; for instance, accumulation of synovia (Petit, Camper, and others;) swelling and degenera- tion of the mass of fat, improperly called the synovial gland, in tlie hip-socket, (Valsaeva, Monro, van der Haar, de Haen, Vermandois, Schwencke, Callisen, Peenck, Portae, Picker, &c. ;) inflammation and swelling of the joint-capsule (Duverney, Ceossius ;) swelling of the cartilage, round ligament, and mass of fat (Boyer ;) swelling of the cartilage and periosteum of the head of the thigh-bone and its socket (Faeconer;) swelling of the head of the bone from caries centralis (Bust ;) destruction of the lower edge of the hip-socket (Langenbeck ;—in destruction of the upper edge shortening is said to occur;) relaxation and unnatural extension of the ligaments and muscles (Eichter, ScHREGER, Larrey, Cheeids ;) relaxation of the muscles (Fricke.) Brodie first accu- rately explained the seeming lengthening of the limb as dependent on the twisting of the pelvis, produced by the position of the patient, and connected with a lateral twisting of the vertebral column. This opinion, however, was not particularly regarded, and considered to have been only incidentally noticed in single cases (Faeconer, Crowther, Eust ;) while, on the other hand, the explanation given by Eust of the enlargement of the head of the bone by caries centralis was most commonly received, which opinion, however, is groundless, and was formerly disproved by me by the results of morbid anatomy, and more recently by Fricke’s (a) experiments on the dead body. Weber’s interesting experiments show that the head of the thigh-bone is chiefly retained in its socket hg atmospheric pressure; since, if all the muscles and ligaments surround- ing the hip-joint and even the capsular ligament itself be cut through, the head of the bone is not withdrawn from its socket by the weight of the depending extremity; whilst, with perfect integrity of the ligaments and muscles, the head of the bone drops from three to four lines out of the socket so soon as, by boring through the latter from tlie pelvis, the atmospheric pressure is permitted to operate on the surface of the head of the bone (i). These experiments are of great importance in reference to diseases of the hip-joint, as Gedechens has shown in a very perspicuous manner (c). Hence it is most completely proved that, as we have already observed, a shortening of the extremity from violent pressing of the head of the bone into its socket is perfectly inadmissible; and, on the other hand, that by mere relaxation of the muscles (as Fricke supposes) no lengthening of the extremity can be produced: since neither, as already mentioned, does there exist any space between the socket and the head of the thigh-bone which can be changed by any muscular action, or can be increased by their relaxation, as the most perfect and intimate contact exists. It further follows that, when an actual lengthening ; if the extremity takes place, the stated relations between the head of the thigh-bone and . its socket must have been first destroyed by diseased changes, and the ground of the •. ictnal len^hening we can only seek in the simultaneous relaxation and distension of the ; capsular ligament by increase of its fluid contents, and in the relaxation of the muscles. Fricke’s observation, that in the seeming lengthening of the extremity, (by dropping )f the pelvis,) measurement shows the shortening of the thigh to be, as Gedechens cor- ’ectly observes, and as every one can prove to himself by voluntary dropping of one or ither side of the pelvis, and placing one finger on the crest of the hip-bone and another ii )n the great trochanter, dependent on the whole hip-bone of the sunken side being ipproached nearer to the great trochanter, whilst on the opposite side the hip-bone is . iroportionally separated from the trochanter; in eonsequence of w-hich, in the one instance , » shortening, and in the other a lengthening, of the space between the great trochanter ■ ind the iliac spine, and consequently of the whole bone, must be produced. fnl Above cited. . (4) Mil 1.64; Mi |>. 124; lies. Med I VOL. I. ' i.i.kb’s Arcliiv. fur Anatomic, 1836, part i. 6i.LF.R*snandbucli derPliysiologie, vol. ii. Laukk in Hamburger Zeitsdirift flir die ., vol. ii. part iii. p. 2i<3. 11 des Iluftgelenkes in ihrer Itexiclumg 7,ur Lehre von don Coxartlirocace; in Hamburger Zeitschr., vol. vi. part i.