492 TREATMENT OF DIVISION and is incapable of supporting liimself on the injured foot. On examina- tion botli ends of the tendon are found separated, and between them is a hollow which is increased by bending the foot upwards, and diminished by ' bending tiie knee and pressing the foot down ; tlie calf is drawn upwards. The patient rarely suffers much pain immediately after the accident; in- flammation generally comes on later. If the sheath of the tendon be torn, without the tendon itself being divided, a hollow is felt, in which the edges of the torn sheath separate and swell; but if the foot be moved, the tendon is felt slipping up and down in the cavity. [“ I believe,” says .Iohn Hunter (o), “ fracture of this tendon often happens when a person is fatigued and off his guard, as after dancing, &c., and after the muscles have acted spontaneously, as in the cramp; at least it happened to me after dancing, and after a violent fit of the cramp. * * * We generally find that the muscle is thrown into a state of cramp when the tendon gives way, losing the power of relaxation by the will or of itself. * * * gut the pain often leads to the right mode of cure, the patient squeez- ing the muscle down with his hands, which a Surgeon should do if at hand.” (p. 437.) “ When the tendo Achielis is broken, there is but very little inflammation attendant; ' but some general fulness comes on about the small of the leg and ankle, the skin looks dark from the efiusion of blood, and the parts have a firm feel, from coagulable lymph being thrown out. This firmness of the cellular membrane increases near to the frac- ■ ture laterally, and this assists to keep the tendon in its place.” (p. 438.)] ' 565. The two ends of the tendon are united by an intermediate cellular | substance, which gradually becomes firm. If this be considerable, the motions of the foot are thereby interfered with and are unsteady. In wounds a hard callous scar is produced, which is connected with the in- termediate substance, and so prevents the motions of the foot. 566. The treatment consists in the close apposition of both ends of the tendon, and the continued preservation of this position. This indication is supplied hy bending the leg, outstretching of the foot, and dhninishmg the contraction of the muscles of the calf. [John Hunter says:—“ The parts should be allowed to remain nearly in their natural !i position; no inconvenience will attend a small separation of the broken ends of the tendon, namely, half an inch or so; whereas considerable disadvantage would arise if ' | we were to push the two broken ends together by throwing back the heel (which has i been the general practice.) The only circumstance that would seem to forbid such i practice, namely, letting the broken tendon remain without a bandage, is, that the muscle i will lose half an inch of its power of contraction, which the motion of the ankle may or may not lose: but though this may be lost at first, we know muscles will acquire it again afterwards, and therefore no attention need be paid to this objection. The advantage of ' not throwing the heel up, and of allowing the tendon to heal nearly in its natural po- sition is, that the patient may be enabled to walk from the very beginning of the cure, a very desirable circumstance. However, it is not necessary to adhere rigidly to either of these modes of treatment, but to adopt a medium between the two, which will be best The heel may therefore be a little raised during the time of walking only, by raising : the heel of the shoe. A roller should be passed several times round the calf of the leg, and kept constantly applied, as we cannot guard against the involuntary action of the muscles ; and at night we may apply an apparatus consisting of a leathern slipper or • sock, with a strap from the heel to be fixed to a belt in order to steady the muscles. * * * As 1 would not restrain the patient from walking almost from the very beginni^, (the inflammation may prevent it for the first day or two,) it is necessary to give him some directions how he is to manage the muscles under the cure, as walking cannot be performed in the usual way. I have recommended to keep the position of the foot nearly at a right angle with the leg, as in standing, but not quite so, the heel being a little raised, by some pieces of leather put into the shoe, which ma)' be removed one by one. When he walks he must turn his toes out, and carry the inside of his foot for- wards, without attempting to bend the joint of tlie knee; indeed the latter precaution is unnecessary, for this motion is only necessary when tlie heel can be raised from the ground, which he cannot do. The patient will hardly be able to mend his pace for two (a) Lectures in Palmer's edition, vol. i.