671 WITHOUT MERCUEY. appear as inflammation and ulcers of the throat, eruptions of various kind, iifemmation of the eyes, periostitis, and swellings of the bones. If these symptoms be very mild tliey may be cured by sudorific woody drinks, an- tinionials, strict diet, and antiphlogistic treatment agreeable to circum- stances. Severe and dangerous symptoms, as great and continued pain m the bones, caries, destructive ulcers of the throat and other parts, will never be seen after this treatment. FAs reiiards the continuance of this treatment, the frequency of buboes following upon primary ulcers, and subsequently the occurrence of secondary symptoms, the opinions of English practitioners differ from each other. According to Hill, ulcers with the proper syphilitic character heal in from eight to twenty-five days ; according to llK.NSEX, the primary in fifty-five and the secondary in from fifty-five to eighty-five duys. Previous rnGrcuritil trcJitiTicnt rmcl scrofulous constitution nuvc spcciul innucncG on the difficulty of the cure. The proportion of the secondary to the primary symptoms is, according to Rose, 1 : 3; to Guthkie, 1 : 10; to Thomson, 1 : 12; to Hennen, 1:5; and to Hill, 1 : 10. . „ . .. (1) It must not be supposed that the practice of treating syphilis without mercury is at all the general practice throughout England; for beyond all doubt it is decidedly the reverse, as the treatment of these cases in almost all, if not all, the civil hospitals, and by the greater number of Surgeons proves. It is not to be supposed, however, that mercury is used in the profuse and improper manner in which in former times, and even within my own recollection, it was employed for true syphilitic symptoms, either primary or seeoudary. Nor indeed is it used for all or for a large proportion of sores on the genitals, in which heretofore it was indiscriminately prescribed. The Surgeon now first takes care to discriminate between the syphilitic and non-syphilitic sore, and adapts his treatment accordingly, with mercury, under careful regulations, for the former as a specific, but for the latter, as either an alterative, or simply as an occa- sional purge, taking care at the same time to improve the general health by diet, medi- cine, and good air. Far from employing mercury too frequently or too freely, the fault is now rather in the contrary direction, and an imperfect cure is the result of leaving off that medicine too quickly, and not continuing it a week or ten days or more after the symptoms have ■apparently subsided, whilst in reality the syphilitic poison has not been entirely cast out The consequence of this is, that secondary symptoms, especially eruptions, are. so ■ far as I have had opportunity of observing, much more frequent than formerly. The Surgeon therefore should be especially cautious, that whilst he avoids overdosing with mercury, in whatever form it be used, that a sufficient quantity should be administered to affect the constitution fully, and this should be steadily, though moderately, kept up till some days after all symptoms have disappeared. Chelius’s own observations in the following paragraph fully bear out all here mentioned.—J. P. S.] 858. Many of the objections formerly made against this plan of treat- ment when the here mentioned observations had not been sufficiently numerous nor sufficiently long continued, though the pseudo-syphilitic affections were cured by it, but not the true syphilis, have on the contrary lost all weight, if it be remembered how long this treatment has been em- ployed, and by some of the most experienced and best instructed English practitioners. The frequency of the secondary symptoms always remains as the mo.st important objection; but seeing that we are still in want of careful and sufficiently numerous statements in reference to the employ- ment of mercury, so must, after the impressive testimony of the English practitioners, the mild and by far less destructive character of the second- ary symptoms outweigh tliis objection. Certain as it may be on the other hand, that by the immoderate use of mercury, syphilis assumes a peculiar destructive character, so little can I, however, agree with the banishment of mercury in the treatment of syphilitic disea.ses, that I am convinced bv e.xperience, that a moderate use of mercury, with a strict and correspondino- dietetic treatment, effects more quickly and constantly the cure of syphili^