SCALLED HEAD. 631 )( ion has diminished, sulphur baths, solution of sublimate, the phagedenic rater, red or white precipitate ointment, flowers of sulphur, with fat or rith soap and water, mercurial ointment, unguentum citrinicm, oxygena- icm, graphit salve, a solution of nitrate of silver, and the like are to be isetl; in old herpetic eruptions the douche with sulphur water, or a blister ipon the part of the eruption to destroy it completely, which may be ffected by often touching with nitrate of silver. Sulphur with soap and rater made up into a liniment and a solution of sublimate I have found aore effectual than all other remedies. In this treatment derivation I'ith issues or setons and strict dietetic regimen is always necessary. If ymptoms arise from metastasis of the herpes, it must be reproduced as luickly as possible. In habitual herpes, where frequently all remedies re employed in vain, bathing of the part on which the herpes is situated i ,n a decoction of almond bran is very serviceable. In very deep-rooted 'land wide spread herpetic eruption, when the skin is much changed, the B sublimate baths (a), the hunger-cure, and Zittmann’s decoction are very «efficient. In stich cases, arsenic internally and externally is recom- M mended. The Herpes exedens on the face is often alone cured by com- 4 jletely destroying the diseased part with caustic, and best by Hellmund’s 4 remedy (6). B.—OF SCALLED HEAD. J Frank, J. P., Epitome de curandis hominum morbis, book iv. p. 87. 4 Gaxlot, L. S, Dissert, sur la Teigne. Paris, 1802. :i Alibert, above cited, first book. ^ 792. Under the term Scalled Head ( Tinea (c) Capitis, Lat.; Kopfgrind, rt Germ.; Teigne, Fr.) are included the ulcers situated in the skin of the hairy part of the head, covered with crusts of various thickness and • colour and accompanied with a secretion of an often peculiarly smelling • ichor. Previous to the formation of these ulcers, there occurs a more Jor less severe smarting, redness and often swelling on some part of the ahead not unfrequeutly accompanied with swelling of the glands in the I neck and headache. These symptoms increase and then among the hairs I are observed sometimes pustules or vesicles, surrounded with an inflamed ledge, sometimes circumscribed, pea-shaped swellings, which are white 5 and yellowish at their tip. When these burst an ichorous fluid pours out, j^mats the hair together, and when it dries forms crusts, beneath which :;the ichor collects, the skin is destroyed; considerable pain and swell- ■iing of the glands of the neck are produced ; and usually many lice are i generated. ? 793. According to the different forms of scalled head are distinguished : si. Tmea/auosa.—From the little pustules are produced by drying up Jbf the matter contained in them yellowish crusts, often isolated and round J often by running together of considerable extent, with their centre in- a dented, their edges raised, and accompanied with painful itching and secre- 1 tion of ichor, having the smell of cat’s urine. When of long standing all J the ul^cerated places are covered with thick white crusts, which stick fast t. and the intervening skin is covered with branny scales. The ichor collects I in Hufeland’s Journal, A- .822. August. J I (6) Rust’8 Magazin, vol. xix. pt. i. p. 55. ^ luodern English writers pr^er the genuine term Porrigo used by Celsus to proposed by Sauvaoes.