FiECULAR FISTULA. 717- of biliary fistula requires first, the removal of its mill-stones (the existence of which is shown by the o ^ \ A /V flv/a -fiefiiln cnnn of rawn ; in doins this, care must be taken, in moving the forceps about that o part of the gall-bladder itself be caught hold of. The opening of the stula should not be closed, so long as gall-stones are believed to be still liere ; otherwise the fistula will break out afresh. When all the stones re removed, tlie fistula usually soon closes with a simple coveidng band- ge; and the scarring may be promoted by careful touching with lunar austic, and suitable pressure. At the same time such remedies must be mployed as will diminish the disposition of the bile to concrete, and will ssist nutrition. Fistula Stercorea, Lat.; Kothfistel, Germ.; Fistule Stercoraire, Aims contre nature, Fr.) Sabatier, Memoires sur les Anus contre nature; in Memoires de I’Academie de Ihirurg., vol. v. p. 592. Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 352. ScHMALEALDEN, Prffis. Kreysig, Dissert. Nova Methodus intestina uniendi. Vieb., Travers, Benjamin, An Inquiry into the process of Nature in repairing Injuries of he Intestines, &c. London, 1812. 8vo. Scarpa, Suir Ernie, Memorie Anatomico chirurgiche. Milan, 1809. fol. Translated >y Wishart as A Treatise on Hernia, with Notes. Edinburgh, 1814. 8vo. Reisinger, F., Anzeige einer vom Prof. Dupuytren zu Paris erfandenen und mit dnchlichsten Erfolge ausgefiihrten Operationsweise zur Heilung des Anus artificialis, xebst Bemerkungen. Augsburg, 1817. 8vo. With a copper-plate. Nachtrag in Salzb. medic, chirurg. Zeitung, 1818, No. 18, p. 286. Brosse, Beobachtung eines mit der Darmscheere von Hrn. Prof. Dupuytren in !I6tel-Dieu zu Paris augestellten Heilungs versuches eines kiinstlichen Afters; in Rust’s Vlagazin, vol. vi. p. 239. Breschet, Anatomisch-chirurgische Betractungen und Beobachtungen iiber die Entstehung, Beschaffenheit und Behandlung des widematurlichen Afters; in von jRAefe und VON Walther’s Journal, vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 271. and pt. iii. p. 479. Liordat, Dissert, sur le Traitement de I’Anus contre nature. Paris, 1819. Dupuytren, Memoire sur une Methode Nouvelle pour trailer les Anus accidentales, lu h I’Acade'mie Royale des Sciences, en Janvier, 1824; in Mem. de I’Acad. Roy. de -Vied., vol. i. Paris. 4to. Also, De I’Anus contre nature, des dispositions anatomiques les effets, du siege du prognostic, du diagnostic et du traitement; in Leqons Orales de piinique Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 193. Reybard, J. F.. Memoires sur le Traitement des Plaies des Intestins et des Plaies pdndtrantes de Poitrine. Paris, 1827. Hennen, John, Principles of Military Surgery. Third Edition. London, 1830. 8vo. Lawrence, William, A Treatise on Ruptures. Fifth Edition. London, 1838. Teale, r. P., Article Intestinal Fistula; in Cyclop<edia of Practical Surgery, vol. ii p. 191. London, 1841. ° •' 914. Foicular Fistula ^ is an old opening communicating with the cavity of the intestine, which, according to its size, discharges either only C.—OF F^CULAR FISTULA. 798.