571 TIIIGII-BONE—TREATMENT. .fport. In every doubtful case the treatment should be as if tlie fracture rtAvere witliout tlie capsular ligament. ,i 4. Eakle has proposed a peculiarly constructed bed for the bent .oposition, in wliich, by the weight of tlie pelvis, counter-extension, and by :lthe attachment of tlie foot to a foot-board, the proper length and position ;Wof the limb are preserved, and the relief of natural needs made possible, Jnvithout moving the jiatient. 4 Hereto belong also the machines of Amesboky (a), Smith (b), Koppenstjedter (c), • a Hager, and others, in which extension is connected with the double inclined plane. 7 678. Of all these modes of treatment, I consider the use of Hagedorn’s || imachine the best. It is more simple, its operation more certain than that I of any other extending macliine, and not more troublesome than the double 1 bent position in one or other way, which, excepting the relaxation of cer- ) tain muscles, has scarcely any advantage, and even renders the limb less secure against motion. Depuytren, however, will have it that by the doubly bent position {pa?\ 677) the results are more satisfactory than by any other treatment; inasmuch as in this posture, by the relaxation of the ?«. adductor femoris, the limb loses the disposition to roll outwards, and that this position is accompanied with less inconvenience to the patient than in the extending apparatus (<7). A. Cooper’s practice in fracture within the capsule, leaves the impression that the diagnostic marks which he proposes are not always to be depended on. In old persons also, and with all the signs of internal fracture, a perfect cure may be effected by Hagedorn’s machine, on which point both home and foreign practice agree. A similar contrivance to Earle’s bed for preventing motion whilst relieving the bowels, may be added to every mattress; it is however unimportant, as it may be ad- visable to move the patient daily into another bed (e). P 679. As in fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone there is always much irritation and contraction of the muscles, if this come on subsequently, it must be attempted to moderate it by rest and antiphlogistic treatment be- fore the application of the extending machine. If permanent extension of any kind be employed, we must always endeavour to keep it up to the same degree; it must only be slackened when the patient complains of pain, and if he cannot bear it another treatment must be resorted to. The patient should keep as quiet as possible during the treatment. The apparatus must not be removed before the sixtieth to the seventieth day, and then the limb should be enveloped in a circular bandage; the patient must remain some time in bed, and must only be allowed to stand up, and, supported by crutches, to move about very cautiously, when, with the leg straiglit, he can bend the whole limb at the hip-joint. Dupuytren assigns to the length of the cure eighty, one hundred, and even a hundred and twenty days. The weakness and stiffness of the muscles and joint gradually subside ; but volatile infrictions and baths may be ordered. Even in the most satis- factory cases, there commonly remains a little sliortening of the extremity, which can often be alone observed, on close examination, in the straio-ht posture, but may always be perfectly counterbalanced by a rather thick- soled shoe. 680. When the fracture passes obliquely through the great trochanter, M Medical Repository, vol. xix. p. 113. (0) New York Medical and Physical Journal, Oct. Dec. 1815. p. 474. (c) Besclireibung einer neu crfiindcnen und vcr- besserten Mascliine fiir alle Arten Beinbrilche. Aug.sburg, 1823, p. 29. (rt) Above cited. (c) Dzondi, Lehrbuch der Chirurgie, p. 390, I [