ERYSIPELAS—Inflammation of Cellular Tissue. 104 them. Pressure upon the skin not unfrequently gives a crackling sensation. The gangrene of the skin continues spreading, and, generally, in the course of forty-eight hours or less, the greater part, or the whole, of the skin is sloughy. If there be suffi- cient power, ulceration takes place at the edge of one or other slough, and a little ichorous exudation is observed, which subsequently is followed by fetid pus, and sloughs begin to separate, simultaneously with which the character and quantity of suppuration are improved and increased, till the whole of the dead parts are thrown off; but this is a result which can scarcely be expected, for the patient is generally worn out before this can take place. The constitutional symptoms in this disease are at first those of great excitement and general disturbance; the skin burning hot and dry ; the pulse quick and full; the alvine secretion unhealthy and the tongue dry; the patient becomes restless, soon wanders, becomes delirious, often violently, and then drops into a typhoid state, in which condition he speedily sinks. The disease is easily distinguishable from erysipelas, by the absence of vesication at the onset, and by its darker redness; also by its usually occurring in the limbs. But, as I have already mentioned, erysipelas may subside into it, as it not imfrequently does when attacking the scalp, and occasionally also when the face is affected, specially when the regions of the orbits are concerned, in which cases I have seen some very fearful sloughing of the cellular tissue in those cavities. The disease generally attacks adults, and more especially persons accustomed to large quantities of beer and spirits, and gross feeding. In such persons the disease often seems to occur spontaneously, and at other times from the slightest cause, as a mere scratch. But I do not agree with Chelius that metastasis is generally, if ever, the cause of the disease.—J. F. S.] (2) I have once or twice seen this degeneration in the scrotum; and I think I have noticed it occasionally in the legs of people addicted to drinking, in whom it seems to have been a commixture of adhesive deposit with the serum of oedema. But, many years ago, I had under my care a woman, between twenty and thirty years of age, whose face was thus affected, consequent on repeated attacks of erysipelas previous to my seeing her. Her forehead, and face especially, were considerably swollen and fiery red, having the appearance of skin distended with oedema, and threatening to burst; but it had not any such disposition. When pressed, it was found firm and but little yielding. She did not suffer pain in any material degree, but was principally inconvenienced by both eyelids being included in the disease, and so swollen that their apertures were little more than narrow horizontal slits, so that without bowing her head much forwards she could see nothing immediately below her for a considerable distance. All sorts of constitutional and local remedies having been employed without avail, it was proposed to her that some slices (they could only so be properly called) should be taken out of the swollen eyelids. To this she readily assented, being anxious for the slighest chance of relief; and, performing an operation similar to that for entropium, I removed a .horizontal slice from between each tarsus and the corresponding edge of the orbit of both eyes, digging down to the bone, to the depth of half an inch, and cutting through cellular tissue literally converted into brawn ; the gaping edges were then brought together, and, at first, she seemed a little benefited; but the wounds soon healed, and no advantage was derived. In a second operation, I removed some short vertical slices from the lower lids, but not with much immediate advantage. I have constantly seen her up to the present time, and, probably from the contraction of the scars, the apertures of the lids are in- creased but are still small. The face is also somewhat less, but it is still very full and deformed.—J. F. S.] Gulliver (a) mentions two peculiar affections of the cellular tissue which he has ob- served, and which he believes by no means uncommon among soldiers on service, who frequently “ complain of inability to sustain the fatigue of marching, in consequence of swelling and pain in the feet and ankles, produced by this exercise. In many instances the cause of the affection is very obscure, and in some it may probably be ascrib«l to simu- lation ; but I have seen cases in which the complaint was evidently connected with a change of structure in the subcutaneous cellular membrane of tlie legs, generally presenting itself in one of two forms. “ In the first and most numerous class of cases, after the patient has been long subjected to the inconvenience of swelling around the ankles and back of the feet, the disease assumes a more inveterate character,—that of thickening and induration of the subcu- taneous cellular texture, so as to leave no further doubt of the incapacity of the man for active service. In one instance, in which the disease attacked the right leg, the part was (a) Remarks on cortnin AITections of the Cellular Tissue of tlie Legs; in Edinhunili Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xlvi. ISJG.