397 BRAIN. 1 large enough to admit the point of the finger. In the dura mater, opposite this, there '■was a corresponding opening, ■with a portion of hone in it; between the membrane and 1 bone some extra'rasated blood was collected. In the pia mater and brain there were also openings; upon the former there were some purulent appearances, in the latter there was :an incipient suppuration, with inflammation extending into the ventricle, (pp. 295, 96). GuTinuE mentions two cases of similar injury. A boy was struck by his play-fellow with the end of a thick iron wire, on the right eye, which blackened it. There ■was no external wound ; but, as there was some bloody chemosis at the upper part and inside, there was a probability of the wire having penetrated deeply, although the opening could not be discovered witli the probe. He vomited shortly after, and for two days ate little, but did not think himself ill. He was then well purged, and cold water applied. Two Idays after he was complaining of sickness, headache, and pain over the brow, and looked ill. It was now suspected that the instrument had penetrated the brain, although the ecchymosis was in a great measure gone, and the eye was unaffected. He was bled freely from that temple with leeches, and freely purged with calomel and jalap. On the evening of the fifth day he was very ill, and delirious and restless all night; on the next was stupified; answered with difficulty and incoherently; had a very quick pulse, hot and dry skin ; some convulsive twitchings of the face and arms; pupils slightly obeying a strong light, but not dilated. He was again bled freely; but bis breathing became difficult; he fell into a comatose state, and died during the sixth night. The iron wire was found to have passed under the upper eyelid, between it and the eye, through the posterior part of the orbitar plate of the frontal bone, and into the anterior lobe of the brain, which was softened at that part and bedewed with matter. A woman was struck on the left eye with a tobacco-pipe. She pulled a piece of the pipe, which was sticking in the orbit, from a wound under the lid, between it and the apper inner part of the eye, which was uninjured. A probe could be passed some dis- tance in the course of the wound. She complained of little but the redness of the eye und the bruise. She was bled and purged, and had no symptoms for a week, when she complained of having been very ill at night, with nausea, headache, and shivering, hot Iry skin, very quick pulse, and the upper eyelid paralytic. She was then bled largely, md purged freely, but became delirious the same night, and died in two days after first complaining of serious illness. Half an inch of the red-waxed end of the pipe had gone •hrough the sphenoid bone, by the side of the sella tursica, and lodged in the brain, from vhence it was removed bedewed with pus, the brain being yellow and softened around t. Guthrie says he has also seen two similar cases in children, and terminating in he same way. (pp. 137, 38.) The relation of these cases shows the importance of giving a very cautious opinion as 0 the probable result of thrust wounds into the orbit, when at first there seems little ixpectation of material mischief.—j. r. s. A very remarkable instance of recovery from wound of the brain, by a cheese-knife, s ^ven by Dr. Congreve Selwyn (a) of Cheltenham“ W. B., aged four years, whilst sating his dinner, in September, 1821, with his plate on a kitchen chair, placed one foot >n the bar of that, and the other on the bar of another chair close by, and the chairs eceding from each other, in consequence of the motion given to them, whilst his limbs rere extended, he fell. The knife, a common cheese-knife, about four and a quarter nches long in the blade, and averaging three quarters of an inch broad, entered the ight orbit nearly horizontally, to the depth of three inches and a quarter, immediately •eneath the superciliary ridge, and penetrating (through the posterior part of the orbital 'late of the frontal bone) the substance of the brain, injuring in its course the optic nerve md the levator palpebrce muscle, or the motor filament supplying it. The father told ne it required all his force to dislodge the knife from its situation. The hemorrhage ras very slight. After the removal of the knife some portion of the brain protruded • aore -was discharged on the eighth day after the injury. He did not sleep for a fort- light after the accident, and was delirious during the night. The treatment consisted f low diet, little or no medical treatment, and the application of strips of adhesive laster to the wound, which was entirely healed in six weeks. There was never any Xfoliation of bone.” He was alive and well seventeen years after, and the following 5 the interesting account of his then condition. “ The eye shows the globe to be sound nd healthy in structure, (this is not quite correct, as presently shown,—j. f s.,) though ^ prominent than the other. Its muscnlar actions are all regularly performed, except ■hat of the m. levator palpebra; superions. The vision is entirehi lost in that eye; the upil dilated, and wholly insensible to the stimulus of light. All the senses are perfect (a) Lancet, 1827-28, vol. ii.