' VOE I. 3d CONGENITAL DISLOCATION. 7G9 n general, soon nnd considerably diminish. When the reduction of I bone protruding through the soft parts is not immediately possible, it is still less so, when inflammation runs into suppuration ; the symptoms >ontinue increasing, and amputation may be rendered necessary by gan- rrene, and by progressive destruction, if the head of the bone have not )een removed at the proper time. 997. When dislocation is connected with fracture of a bone, the latter mist be always attempted to be set, if it can be done, without extension of he limb. If this be not possible, the fracture must be treated first, and on he length of time requisite for that purpose, depends, wliether after union las occurred, putting to rights the old dislocation can be undertaken. 998. Congenital Dislocations, {^Luxationes congenita;,) noticed by Hip- •OCRATES, Avicenna, Pare', Paeletta, Sandefobt, and Schreger, t the Inp-joint, where they most commonly occur, more carefully described >y Dupuvtren, and more recently the subject of numerous observa- ions, have been since noticed in almost all the joints of the extremities. 7ery different opinions are held as to the causes and origins of these islocations, principally however with reference to the congenital disloca- ion of the thigh. Most persons have considered them as defaults of ormation, as the consequence of arrested development of the bones and heir sockets (Schreger, Dupuvtren, Breschet, and others.) Some have onsidered them as consequent on distension of the capsular ligament, and f misproportion between the bone and its socket thereon depending E. Stromeyer) (a). Others ascribe them to the position of ihe foetus in he womb, or to violence operating on them during birth (the Author, I’OuTREPONT, Cruvelhier.) Von Ammon (b) grounds them on default f development; he does not however deny, that therewith in many cases t connected an original deficient condition, or a diseased formative process ; nd in like manner, may the ailment have a purely diseased origin, in srtain, though very rare cases, and have no connexion with the fmtal evelopment of the hip-joint. Guerin (c) considers it as the product of n active or primary retraction of the muscles, the remote cause of which to be sought in the affection of some central part of the nervous system, •n the degree and form of the muscular affection, depends the degree of islocation, as does its development and course upon many secondary cir- umstances, to w it, prevention of the development of the muscles following n their retraction, physiological contraction and vertical operation of the mdons. 999. The examination of the joint after death, has explained various lianges, in the several tissues constituting the apparatus of the joint, as Lstension, tearing of the capsular, and other ligaments; diminution, ffat- ming, distortion of the head of the bone ; diminution of the socket, its Iling up w'ith a quantity of fat, flattening or entire disappearance; a more r l^s deep new cavity for the dislocated head; the muscles surrounding le joint contracted, shortened, and variously altered in their substance ; jnsiderable wasting in the affected limb. On examination soon after irth, tearing of the ligaments is found, but otherwise the natural form of le socket and head, and the joint especially, is as in acquired dislocation. Pali.etta.) (c) Gazette Mpdicale, 1841. No. 7. 10. Re- JViirzb., 1840. cherchos sur los Luxations Congonitales. Paris uie angeborenen chirurgischen Krankheiten 1841. a Menschen. Herlin, 184’.:, p. 118.