545 AND BREAST-BONES. (2) A very remarkable case of fracture of the hauuch-bone, ■which was followed by abscess in the perineum and extensive urinary fistulcc, but which recovered after eighteen months, is related by Houston (a). 622. If fracture of the pelvic bones be accompanied with displacement, ►nothing can be done except putting the patient in such position that the ^muscles inserted into the pelvis should be at rest; a broad band must be kiapplied around the pelvis, and the patient recommended to keep quiet. |.The accompanying symptoms of inflammation or injury of the spinal farrow require the same treatment as in fracture of the vertebra:. If the Ibroken pelvic bones be displaced, it must be attempted to return them to I their proper place, as in fracture of the share and haunch-bone, by the flintroduction of the finger into the vagina or into the rectum. If by Ipplintering of the bones the bladder be injured, and the urine extravas- ated, its further extension must be prevented by incision and by the intro- duction of the catheter. [As I have already mentioned, displacement in fracture of either of the pelvic bones rarely occurs, and, therefore, introducing the finger into the rectum or vagina is not ^nerally requisite.—J. F. S.] VIII.-OF FRACTURE OF THE BREAST-BONE. (Fractura Sterni, Lat.; Bruch des Brustbeines, Germ.; Fracture du Sternum, Fr.) 623. Fracture of the Breast-hone is rare, on account of its elastic con- lexion with the ribs, and on account of its sponginess. It is either jonsequent to severe violence which immediately strikes the breast-bone, ar on violent bending backwards of the body (6). Its direction is generally ;ransverse, more or less oblique, or the bone is broken into different aieces. The broken ends may be driven inwards by the violence which las caused the fracture, or the lower end, which is more raised in the notions of the chest than the upper, lies over it. From this displacement, IS well as from the effect of the violence, the organs of the cavity of the jhest may be variously wounded, inflammation of the lungs and of the ileura, spitting of blood, collections of blood in the medictstina, and lubsequently suppuration in the breast-bone itself, or beneath it, may be aroduced. 624. The diagnosis is never difficult, on account of the superficial aosition of the breast-bone. If accompanied with displacement of the ractured pieces, it is easily discovered by examination; in fractures vithout displacement an unusual movement of the breast-bone is always abserved in breathing, and crepitation, which the patient himself also aerceives. A fixed pain is at the same time felt in the breast-bone, which ncreases on breathing ; and there is much accompanying oppression, Jough, spitting of blood, palpitation, and so on. 625. If the fractured ends be not displaced, a compress dipped in a iispersing lotion is to be applied on the seat of the fracture, and the lotions of the chest prevented by a tightly applied breast-bandage. The atient must be kept quiet, with his chest a little raised and his head bent orwards. If the ends of the fracture be separated, they must be put right (a) Case of Fracturo of the Pelvis attended with Medical and Chemical Science, vol. viii. p. 11. oughiM of the urethra and singularly extensive 1836. . • f • nnary flatulas, cured by operation after the lapse (i) Chaussiee ; in Revue MWicale.Nov. 1827. r one year and a half; in Dublin Journal of VOL. I. 2 N