627 IMPETIGINOUS ULCERS. . hflamniation, it must be got rid of by mild treatment. If they be observed beneath i tie skin the swelling must be opened; we do not then endeavour to press out the eiarthv masses; they gradually discharge themselves with the pus, by the continued use I f softenino- poultices. If the inflammation be abated, the removal of the earthy mass i lav be often facilitated by taking away part of the overlying skin. If a large ulcer I e formed with a deposit of this kind at its bottom, it is best removed by the application Jf caustic remedies, by which the cells containing the earthy matter are destroyed (a). OF IMPETIGINOUS ULCERS. g; 783. Among Impetiginous Ulcers (Ulcera impetiginosa, Lat.; im- ^etiginiisen GeschioUre, Germ.: Ulceres impetigineux, Fr.) are to be Wonsidered those which form, in their course, chronic eruptions of the skin. ,j; lereto belong the herpetic ulcer, the scalled head, milk-crust, and itch, a ’hese ulcers are to be considered throughout as symptoms of chronic i ruption of the skin, and are determined by the great degree and long It ontinuation of the eruption, by its easy recession from one part, and ’ xing upon another, or by mechanical influences, itch, and the like. i ■ 784. The actual causes of chronic eruptions are, principally, a bad con- 1 ition of the digestive organs, stagnation in the portal system and liver, dis- ,T irbance of the secretions, dyscrasy, the use of bad, putrid and acrid . ( ictuals and drink, residence in foul air, want of cleanliness, dirty employ- , lents, working among wool, acrid remedies and contagion operating on :> le skin. Hence impetiginous ulcers may be divided into, 1, the simply ; )cal; 2, into those which are connected with general causes; and, 3, those ;t riginating from contagion. a! 785. The treatment of impetiginous ulcers must vary according to the lUndition of the ulcer, and the causes upon which the eruption depends, jif the ulcers be inflamed and painful, the general treatment must be to itiminish irritation and to soothe. A more strict antiphlogistic plan of i veatment is indeed rarely necessary ; a suitable dietetic regimen, and the Ise of cooling purgatives, are ordinarily proper. According to the variety hf the cause, the remedies to be employed must be sometimes solvent, ibmetimes for the improvement of the digestion and assimilation, sometimes iOr the restoration of the suppressed secretions. As in the constitutional, jiough not contagious eruptions, a morbid matter is produced and in a luanner thrown off, we must assist its separation by the natural drains, the ;dn, the urinary organs, and the alimentary canal. The remedies which ; jfect this object are especially sulphur, and its various preparations, anti- fconials, decoctions of woods, dulcamara, sassafras, juniper, sarsaparilla, ]irex arenaria, mezereon, pansy, and the like. In very old eruptions, iid in considerable degeneration of the skin, mercurials, sublimate, it id arsenic are especially useful; and the cure may often be effected Kerely by remedies entering into and altering the whole constitution, as ! le friction-cure, the hunger-cure, Zittmann’s decoction, and the like, ' V^reafter to be mentioned. 786. The local treatment must have special reference to the state of the ' nammation, and so long as that continues, mild applications and salves, wke-warm baths and the like can alone be used. If the irritation have Hbsidwl, so long as the internal cause is unremoved, the local remedies •ust be used with caution, because relapse and destruction are easily pro- ^a) Moohe, J,, On Gouty Concretions or Chalk- 7^ ’ Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. i. Ure, a,, lb., yol. xxiv. p.30, recommends espe- cially the benzoic acid, up to a scruple, after meal- time. 2 s 2