698 CARIES OF THE 876. If the necrosis liave been of long continuance, if the outflow from the fistulous openings be slight, if the se<juesler cannot be felt, if already several pieces of bone have been separated, the diagnosis is doubtful, whether there still exists a sequester, or whether it be not already removed by absorption. In this case the laying bare or boring through the bone is useless, and it is advisable to watch the state of things for some time, Avith simple treatment, in order to decide with certainty upon the diagnosis. 677. Amputation is only indicated in necrosis, when the cavity in which the sequester lies communicates with a neighbouring joint when there are several sequestres, of which each has its proper cavity, when the sequester lies so deep that its removal is not possible, and when the patient s powers are so sunk that throwing ott the sequester cannot be expected, or its removal cannot be undertaken without the probable danger of exhausting the patient. A.—OP CARIES OF THE SKULL-BONES. 878. Caries may occur in all parts of the skull, though it is most j commonly observed in the mastoid process and in the occipital bone. It occurs either on the external or internal table of the skull; in the former i case it arises either from external violence, exposure of bone, and so on; or as consequence of a tophus, or of an exostosis which has run into I suppuration. The caries may be also distinguished by examination. In ; the second case severe symptoms are sometimes produced by the collection of pus between the dura mater and tire skull. The patient complains of a constant pain, always confined to the same spot, though externally nothing is apparent. Frequently giddiness, convulsions and coma; in short, all the symptoms of pressure on the brain come on. At last there appears externally, at the part where the patient has complained of pain, a slightly painful, and from the first, fluctuating swelling. If this break of itself or be opened, an aperture is found in the skull, of which the edge is thin and irregular, because the destruction of the internal extends further than that of the external table of the skull, out of Avhich by the motions of the brain, a more considerable quantity of pus is driven up than from the external extent of the ulceration w'ould be thought possible. The dura mater is covered with discoloured granulations, often depressed, and separated to a greater or less extent from the skull, often even ulcer- ated. If the caries be in the mastoid process, hearing is almost always destroyed; in consequence of the communication of the cells of this process with the ear-drum, the pus sinks into it, and produces suppuration and destruction of the drum-membrane. [The consequences of caries or necrosis in the mastoid process are very often fatal, and therefore the disease should be most carefully attended to. Most commonly it seems to begin with common ear-ache ; abscess of the drum ensues; its lining is destroyed, and the bone either ulcerates and is gradually destroyed, towards the cavity of the skull, or dies outright and attempts are made to throw it off. I do not know any mode of dis- tinguishing between simple chronic suppuration of the ear-drum which is occasionally accompanied Avith pain, and the suppuration accompanying caries or exfoliation; nor is there any distinction between the latter two, from either of Avhich, hoAvever, the ini- tation set up on the dura mater may produce inflammation, ulceration and suppuration of that membrane, which consequently attack the brain, and either ulcerates its surface or produce, by remote sympathy, abscess in its substance, of which 1 have seen instances; and in the last case 1 had of this kind, the abscess was as large as a pigeon’s egg, but the