V 740 URETHRAL FISTULA; in order to prevent the gangrenous destruction caused by the escape of I the urine. I Stones frequently lie in the sac of a blind fistula, in which case cutting into it and the ^ I the removal of the stone is necessary, and afterwards the treatment is to be as in com. f plete fistula. Compare also what is hereafter said about urinary stones exterior to ’ i * the urinary passages. t 951. Complete urinary fistulas communicating with the kidneys, or • * ureters, require no assistance, unless kept up by the pressure of a fortdgn i ^ body or by prevention of the flow of urine from the bladder, in which t perhaps the restoration of the natural area of tlie urethra, or the removal .. 1 of the foreign body, may contribute to the cure. ^ 952. Complete urinary fistula is situated either between the scrotum ^ : and the glans penis, or between it and the anus in the perinceum. The • ’ difference of the seat of the fistula depends on its course, and require. ^ different treatment. ‘ 953. In the first case, (^Fistula urinaria penis,') the fistulous opening is . most commonly on the under side of the penis, varying in size, so tliat.. ^ either all the urine and semen, or only part of it, escapes thereby. It { ’ presents different conditions, according to its cause and duration; it is often connected with surrounding hardness and copious suppuration, .. ; especially if it arise from stricture; often it forms an extremely minute ■. | and obliquely running aperture; often the skin and the neighbouring i; • mucous membrane of the urethra, skin over, and do not suppurate; often i ! ' is a large portion of the lower wall of the urethra destroyed, and the ; opening varying in size, surrounded with a hard scar, as in destroying c • ' ulcers or wounds with loss of substance. In narrow and obliquely running fistulas, the introduction of a probe, through the fistula, and of a catheter r j through the urethra, sliows the seat of the internal opening. 954. If the fistula be accompanied with narrowing of the urethra, this -1 must be first got rid of by bougies, and then by the continual wearing an i. I elastic catheter, which .should be properly fastened, the urine must be t conveyed from the fistula. At the same time, any disease, standing in i • causal relation to the fistula must be attended to, and care taken for the - J cleanliness and diminution of the irritated condition of the parts surround*' :i ing the fistula, by warm hip-baths, leeches, poultices, and so on ; and the : .' patient’s constitutional powers must be improved by attention to diet and ^ tonic remedies. The cure usually takes place without further assistance, ! if the fistulous orifice be not too large, and its walls not too much . changed. 955. If, when the urethra have attained its proper size, the cure of the * fistula do not take jilace, or if there be scarcely any diminution in the size ■ of the stream of urine, the cause of the obstinacy of the fistula is its callous ■ or some other condition. Then, if the fistula form a canal, it must be divided and filled with lint to promote tlie development of granulations; or the • edges of the fistula, especially if they be callous, must be touched with caustics, as lunar caustic, nitric acid, (A. Cooper,) a solution of caustic potasli, or vvith tmct. canth., (Dieffenbach,) because this is less destruc- tive than irritative. In the application of the caustics, a moderately thick • bougie should be introduced into the urethra, the cauterization repeated after the separation of the slough till good granulations are produced, the .scarring of which may be assisted with lunar caustic. After tlie narrow or oblique fistula has been dilated, Dieffenbach recommends the cauten- 1