686 TREATMENT OF CARIES. sliglit aromatic remedy must l)e strewed in powder on the ulcers. But if the treatment mentioned be inefficient, the ulcers not being kept up by a general diseased cause, and the position of the carious bone permitting, * the cure may be attempted by the removal of the carious part and the ' simple treatment of an exposed sound bone, by cutting into the caries of a rib, of the breast and collar bones, the skull and face bones, the bones of the meta-carpus and -tarsus, of the articular surfaces, if the caries be not very extensive. If the latter be the case with the bones of the limbs, and especially in the joints, and destruction is to be feared from hectic fever, amputation or exarticulation of the limb is the only remedy. ^ The numerous remedies proposed for caries, as assafcetida, phosphoric acid, ruhia tinctoruvi, semina phellandrii aquatici, muriate of barytes and so on, are not sus- tained by experience. Rust (a) recommends pills of equal parts of assafcetida, phos- phoric acid, and rad. calam. arom., from six to ten portions, three times a day, as especially effective, particularly if scrofula be the cause of the disease. The use of acrid remedies, as tinct. euphorhii, aloes, myrrhce, the acrid mtherial oils, and the like for the purpose of bringing about a more complete death of the diseased bone, for which purpose also the actual cautery has been employed, are to be entirely discarded, as their effect is not restricted merely to the diseased bone, but may also extend to the underlying healthy bone : only in caries fungosa, has the actual cautery often appeared to me advantageous. Fricke (i) considers the complete exposure of the diseased bone as the best mode of producing its quick exfoliation. [“ The absorption may be prevented,” says Mayo, “ by subduing the inflammation; or may, having begun, be arrested, and the crop of unwholesome granulations converted into a healthy restorative growth, if the case is of such a nature as to allow of the sup- pression of the inflammatory or specific action.” (p. 36.) “ The treatment must, in the inflammatory stage of caries, be antiphlogistic,” says Lawrence ; “ take blood from the part locally, and adopt other antiphlogistic measures, and after this, counter-irritation, by the application of tartar emetic ointment, moxa, and so on, in the neighbourhood of the diseased bone. When we come to the ulcerative stage of the affection, we must employ the counter-irritant plan. So far as local means go, perhaps, we have no more effective methods of producing it, than by counter- irritation, issues, and moxse. Further, as a local means of treatment, we are recom- mended, when the carious affection occupies a small portion of bone within our reach, to denude the bone, and remove the diseased part by means of Key’s saw, or a stout pair of scissors, or pliers, or by any other mechanical means, to cut away that which is the seat of disease.” (p. 359.) “ The treatment of caries," says Syme, “ is to be conducted on the same principle as that of cancer, and consists in the use of means which have the effect either of destroy- ing the life of the morbid part, or of removing it at once from the system. There is this difference, however, that there being no malignant tendency to take on the same diseased action in the neighbouring parts, it is not necessary to remove any of them, except in order to gain access to the seat of the evil. Notwithstanding this favourable circumstance, it is found extremely difficult to eradicate the disease by depriving the part affected of its vitality. * * * The effect of all these applications, to wit, the con- centrated mineral acids, nitrates of silver and mercury, red oxide of mercury, and the actual cautery, (with the view of killing the morbid part,) however carefully employed, is very superficial, and it is extremely difiicult, if not impossible, to ensure their ope- ration on the whole surface of the diseased part. They therefore always require to be frequently repeated, and generally prove quite inadequate to destroy the disease, unless it is very limited and accessible ; and it is even not improbable that some of tliem, as the actual cautery, may occasionally make the matter worse, and extend the disease to the neighbouring bone, by exciting inflammation in it. For these reasons, excision ought to be preferred to caustics for removing the carious bone; and if the part affected be within reach, which can always be ascertained previous to commencing the opera- tion, it may, by this method, be surely and thoroughly eradicated at once. If the disease is superficial, and of small extent, it is easily scooped out witli a gouge, the toughness and compactness of the sound bone distinguishing it from the morbid portion. (tt) Handbuch der Chiriirgic, vol. ii. p. 398. allcemeincn Krankcnliauses lu Hamburg, 1832, (i) Fiinfter Ucricht iiber die Verwaltung des p.237.