[ 622 ] III.—OF SCROFULOUS ULCERS. Koutom, C. G. Th., Commentarlus de vitio Scrofuloso, ii. vol. Lemgov., 1789-go 8vo. ■ , Weber, F. A., Von den Scropheln, einer endemischen Krankbeit vieler Provinzei Europa’s. Vol. I. Salzburg, 1793. 8vo. Baume, J. B. T., Traitd sur le Vice Scrofuleux et sur les maladies qui en proviennent Second Edit. Paris, 1805. 8vo. Burns, John, Dissertations on Inflammation. ^2 vols. Glasgow, 1800. 8vo. Russell, James, A Treatise on Scrofula. Edinburgh, 1808. 8vo. Carmichael, Essay on the Nature and Cure of Scrofula, and a demonstration of its origin from disorder of the Digestive Organs. Dublin, 1810. 8vo. Henning, Geo., M. D., A critical Inquiry into the Pathology of Scrofula. London. 1815. 8vo. Hufeland, Ch. W., Ueber die Natur, Erkenntniss und Heilung der Scrofelkrankheit- Third Edit. Berlin, 1819. 8vo. Goodlad, W., Essay on the Diseases of the Vessels and Glands of the Absorbent System. London, 1814. 8vo. Baudelocque, a. C., Etudes sur la Maladie Scrofuleuse. Paris, 1834. 8vo. 770. Scrofulous Ulcers (^Ulcera scrofulosa, Lat.; scrophuldsen Ges- chwiire, Germ. ; Ulceres scrofuleux, Fr.) are indications of more or les* developed scrofulous disease. They originate in nutrition varying from the natural type, in consequence of which bad preparation of the blood and unnatural mingling of the lymph, irregularity in the circulation of the latter, obstruction and swelling of the glands ensue. 771. Scrofulous disease is in general a peculiarity of youth ; children come into the world with a predisposition to it, and the disease after- wards develops itself especially in bad nursing, want of cleanliness, bad food, and so on. This disposition shows itself under two forms:— 1. The children are sprightly, of slight bodily form, very active, tlieir skin white, their cheeks red, their eyes sparkling and lively, their form I beautifully rounded, their hair blonde, brown, fine and curly; they have j especially very great excitability. 2. There appear weakness, flabby, lymphatic habit, bloatedness, espe- cially of the face, the lips are turned up, the angles of the jaws strongly prominent. Such persons are slowly developed, suffer from want of nourishment, frequently from blennorrhcea, from eruptions of the skin, in which scrofula shows itself in its most revolting form, and its character is torpor. 772. Scrofula when developed gives rise to important diseases; con- tinued inflammation and blennorrhcea of the mucous membranes, eruptions of the skin, swelling and suppuration of the glands, atrophy, consumption, swelling and suppuration of the bones and joints. 773. Scrofulous sores occur either when the swollen glands inflame and break, or the skin inflames at various independent spots and ulcerates. They are usually free from pain, their edges hard, irregular, and over- hanging ; the circumference and the swelling itself are pale or violet red; tlie bottom is here and there marked with streaks of tough lymph, and the pus is thin. Such are scrofulous glandular swellings or a scrofulous habit. e 774. The healing of scrofulous sores depends upon tlie improvement o the constitution, which may be expected if there be no destruction of un* portant parts, and no great accompanying weakness. Scrofula frequent y