PERINiEAL FISTULA; 744 to In one case in wliicli. -by a deeply-eating ulcer, the urethra was completely destroyed i a considerable extent, Ciiaulks Bkll undertook the formation of a new passage for 11 the urine. A hollow sound was introduced through the fistulous opening, and tlirongj^jl the orifice of the urethra a silver tube six inches in length, into which a metal sou^^ I and a pointed stilette could be passed, was passed by the urethra to the beginning of the «1 fistula. He then thrust the stilette through the body of the penis, near the original »1 canal of the urethra, and endeavoured to bring its point on one side of the fistula into < I the groove of the hollow sound, following the proper canal of the urethra. This canaKl was then rendered callous by continuing the tube in it. During the course of this ope--1 ration no blood was lost, the symptoms were not severe, but there remained a smalh; lateral opening at tlie previous seat of the fistula (a). 963. Complete urinary fistula in the hinder part of the urethra, ofiii tvliich the inner opening corresponds to the bulb, the membranous on prostatic part of the urethra, {Fistula urethro-perincealis^ ari.ses either 11 from a previous incomplete fistula, {par. 946,) or after infiltration of urine, most commonly depending on stricture, bruising, tearing, or wound of the >< urethra, or stone, severe inflammation and ulceration. The external d opening is either in the perinceum, in the neighbourhood of the rectum, on a the penis, or in the groin ; often there are several openings existing at once v on these several places, which, however, are connected only with one in-h ternal opening. These fistulas are generally accompanied with coirsider- •- able hardening of their neighbourhood, with hardness of the whole peri- nceum, and even of the scrotum. The urine, whilst being passed, escapes >i through them only in part, or it flows entirely through the fistula; in a which case, if long continued, the fore part of the urethra contracts and d I shrivels up. If in old strictures there be a paralytic condition of the neck L | of the bladder, the urine will constantly and unwittingly flow by the fi.stuk. l In consequence of the continued irritability of the fistula, and its neigh- -1 boiirhood, of the suppuration and so on, the genei’al health gradually i suffers much, the patient wastes, the digestion becomes bad, and on the f least occasion, severe though generally slight consecutive fever ensues. [Brodie observes, that “ a fistula in perinceo occurs in some cases, as a consequence of gonorrhoea; in other cases as the consequence of stricture, either independently of gonorrhoea, or long after it has subsided. These two kinds of fistula in perinao require each a separate notice. A man has a severe gonorrhaa; the urine comes away in a very small stream, because the urethra is inflamed, swollen, and contracted. At last he complains of pain in the perinanvm ; a tumour is found there, and this state of things is frequently attended with a complete retention of urine in the bladder; at other times, however, it is attended only with an increased difficulty of making water. By-and-by the tumour bursts, or perhaps the Surgeon feels fluctuation in it, and opens it with a lancet, pus is discharged, then the difficulty of making water subsides, and a day or two afterwards the patient finds that whenever he voids his urine, a portion of it comes by the opening in the perinaum. In another case, the patient has, perhaps, never had gonorrhaa; or if he has had one, it has subsided and left a contraction or stricture of the urethra. On some occasion he has more than usual difficulty in making water, but not amounting to a complete retention of urine. Under these circumstances, he dis- covers a swelling in the perinaum, which increases in size, and becomes painful and tender. The tumour bursts, or the Surgeon opens it; matter escapes also in this case, and afterwards a portion of the urine comes away through the opening VI here this disease is connected with gonorrhaa, there is generally only a single abscess; but it is connected with a stricture of the urethra, there may be many abscesses formed in succession; so that a patient having a stricture of the urethra of long standing, may ha^e fistula formed in various directions, opening into the perinaum, in the middle of the scrotum, nay, even in the groin, or on the nates, or one of them may, perhaps, open into the rectum.” (p. 486.) As regards the immediate cause of these kinds of perintcal abscess, as “ in cases the contents of the abscess bear manifest indications of urine having been niixen (n) System der operativen Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 102.