165 INOCULATION OF GONORRHCEAL MATTER. ments prove that the ulcers ■which are produced, by inoculating the gonorrhoeal virus, arc not syphilitic, and at the same time point out the source of errors ■which may render these experiments, ■which appear so simple and decisive, of little value. They sho^w ho^w circumstances may change the nature of ulcers, or disguise them, and to such degree that it may easily impose on inattentive observers ■who do not foresee these cases of com- plication.” (pp. 4S, 9; Fr. edit., pp. 112-13.) The assertion that “ one ■woman, having connexion ■with several men, could give chancres to some, and to others gonorrhoeas and buboes, whence the conclusion as to the identity of the nature of these ditferent actions, the principle being always the same in all, and the difference only in the form determined by the locality and degree in which the cause acts,” is now completely disproved by Ricord’s observations :—“ If such reasoning have re- mained for a length of time without refutation, it cannot,” says he, “ be now persisted in. Since I have applied the speculum uteri to the study of venereal diseases, the hitherto inexplicable enigmas are reduced to the most common and simple facts. With the aid of this instrument I have found that a woman may be affected, at the same time, with go- norrhoea and deep chancres of the vagina or uterus and the gonorrhoea alone show itself externally; apparently affected with gonorrhoea, she could very easily communicate chancres and gonorrhoea together, or only one of them, according to the predisposition of the persons who exposed themselves to the infection. But we can affirm, and from numerous observations, that whenever we have examined women who have commu- nicated disease, we never found that a chancre had been produced by a discharge with- out ulceration in the sexual organs of the person who had communicated. Inoculation has confirmed what observation of ordinary contagion, better made with the assistance of the ^eculum, had established. In women, gonorrhoea, considered throughout, in the whole extent of the organs of generation, in its different phases of acuteness or duration and inoculated in the same manner as employed for chancre, produced no result when- ever the mucous membrane was not actually the seat of chancre.” (pp. 52, 3 ; Fr. edit., pp. 118, 19.) ^ * tn ffie opinion that “ the cause of chancre and gonorrhoea being the same the difference in the form depended upon the tissues affected, and that thus thf syphilitic virus applied to a non-secreting surface produced a chancre, and the pus of chancre upon mucous membranes only, produced gonorrhoea,” Ricord says, positively “ We know that gonorrhmal matter never produces chancre on the skin, and that, applied to mucoi^ surfaces, when it acts, it only produces a discharge. The gonorrhoeal secretion ScM^o? ofthr^'* membrane of the eye, has never produced chancres of the conjunc- other hand, /ms the muco-purulent secretion of go- noijtoa/ ophthalmia ever produced chancres by inoculation or otherwise, althouo^h theeve- batffitis'r^^ We may add that the muSo.rus of a Snf ^ f on an impure coition, or produced artificially by au cit\p ^ inoculation, and that these affections, therefore out chancrS ” constitutional pox, whenever they have existed with- and rSr^n PP' to the two “pretty frequent chJncrO and Cwell Jh f gonorrhoea, buboes, (yet far less freqLnt ffian^fter suchbute L llni have ascertained, by inoculation, [that the pus from this case rarelv tprm° m similar condition, does not inoculate, ■which in the char^cters^of engorgements, or simple abscesses. As to swelled testide VS s“t ff strumous and not syphilitic affections, thing by inoculaS” fp 2 Fr Xt Pn« never produced any i on ..e an iiioculable pus. ‘^“‘^“nbted, and regular symptoms of gonorrhoea do not furnish T ft' symptoms of constitutional syphilis arp nnt « In all the cases in which authors mention thstl^Jl, ‘ consequence of gonorrhoea, which precisely corresponds with that of masked phn * antecedent, the frequency of w„ nojcormt; the fiseaaed sorfSL nSalt =. Laatl,, ,hc « of of soieooo. is ioo.