310 TORSION AND the fine teeth of which do not lock into, but only meet, each otlier, and furnished with a stud at the upper part of one limb, which, on pressing the forceps, fits into a hole in the other limb, to prevent its slipping sideways. In twisting, the fingers of the left hand must be so placed on the limbs of the forceps that they move as if in a ring. The twisting should be continued till a piece of the artery is torn off, for which, usually, eight or nine twists are necessary ; we may then be sure that the external valve is formed, though not so if we only give a certain number of turns, after Thierry’s mode of proceeding. In the smaller arteries, a certain number of turns may be made, according to their size, or the turning continued till the artery is torn off. Dieffenbach uses the same kind of forceps as Rust, except that they are rather broader. Kluge has proposed a peculiar apparatus, by which the twisting of the artery upon its axis is efifected, by means of a spiral feather attached to a pair of forceps (a). 297. Experience has, up to the present time, sufficiently proved that by torsion, bleeding may be with certainty stanched, even from the largest vessels. The advantages derived from torsion, in comparison with the ligature of arteries, are, that, as in torsion, no foreign body remains in the wound, the quick union ensues more certainly than in ligature, in which the remaining threads, whether cut oft’ or drawn over the edge'of the wound, act as foreign bodies retarding that process; and that in sudden accidents the surgeon can effect the torsion of arteries alone, and without assistance. These circumstances do not, however, seem to me sufficient to decide the question upon the absolute preference of torsion over ligature. In reference to quick union, Dieffenbach (b) has raised a doubt, whether the knot made in the artery should not also, to a certain extent, be considered as a foreign body, in a wound to be healed by prima intentio; whether it may not produce suppuration in its immediate neigh- bourhood, although, as shown by experiment, it unites immediately with the neighbouring parts; and whether, on account of the quick union of the torn and twisted trunk, it may not the more easily suppurate, and after- bleeding take place. In cases of torsion of arteries which have come under my notice, in simple wounds especially disposed to quick union, namely, in those of the face, the result was not in favour of torsion, inasmuch as suppuration followed it more commonly than after ligature of the vessels. Pulling out the artery, to the extent of six or eight lines, disturbs, in the large arteries, their connexion with their sheath, up to the next collateral branch, and produces injurious consequences. This is not, liowever, to be feared in the smaller arteries. By the tearing and bruising of the arterial coats in torsion, separate fragments of the coats die off, and suppurate. In an artery wounded near a large collateral branch, torsion is always less to be depended on, because here the necessary space for the formation of the blood-clot is diminished by the knotting of the artery (c). The second advantage, namely, that torsion can be performed without assistance, is still important: however, here also it is to be borne in mind, that, with tlie close-shutting forceps, the ligature may usually be applied without the aid of assistants with little difficulty. On the other hand, it is not to be overlooked, that, whatever dexterity a person may possess, it is commonly very difficult to take hold of arteries which run in thick cellular tissue, to •'a) Compare Rust’s Handbuch der Chirurgic, vol. ii. p. 291. Koch's Forceps; in vos GraKfs and Waltufp’s Journal, vol. xxvi. partiii. p. 496. (b) In Rust, just cited, p. 287. (c) Alwve cited, p. 30.