G56 TREATMENT OP stances. Tlie patient during this mercurial cure must keep himself as quiet as possible and in an equal temperature, must live moderately, take neitlier heating nor acid food nor drink, and further perspiration by a decoction of woods. [“ I should state decidedly” says Lawrence, “ as the result of my own experience' that there are very few instances of secondary symptoms occurring where the primary sores of the descriptions I have already mentioned, were treated with mercury. It is my plan in private practice, to employ mercury moderately—not extensively, hut mode- rately—in the treatment of primary syphilitic sores, (excepting in the cases of sloughine and phagedenic sores,) and certainly I have been in the habit of seeing secondary symm toins very seldom occurring in such cases. * * * f would state then that in the de- scription of sores I have mentioned, I should generally administer mercury in a moderate way. In the first instance, one would clear out the alimentary canal of such patients; one would keep them as quiet as possible, put them on a moderate diet, and administer mercury moderately; three, four, or five grains of the blue pill two or three times a day, and apply the black wash, calomel, and lime water, to the sores; and this kind of treat- ment is certainly, on the average, very successful in the cases of which 1 am now speak- ing. The employment of mercury is more particularly necessary in the cases of indu- rated chancre ; and whether the chancre possesses that character originally, or whether the induration comes on subsequently, or whether the induration comes in a secondary way, after the primary sore is healed, and shows itself simply as induration without sore, I think the employment of mercury is equally required. We cannot consider our patients safe so long as such induration remains, and I think it is desirable to use mer- cury in those cases, and to continue the employment of it until the induration has com- pletely disappeared.” (p. 770-71.) With regard to the extent to which the use of mercury should be pushed, Lawrence proposes two very pertinent questions, to which he gives equally good replies,—First, whether a slight degree of action of mercury on the mouth may be considered a proof that it has produced all the effect necessary for the removal of the venereal disease; or, seconrfZy,whether a more considerable effect is necessary generally, or in particular cases ? It has been much the habit, in modern times, to produce a sensible effect on the mouth, and then to discontinue the mercury, under a notion that when the mouth is affected at all, the system has experienced a sufficient influence for the removal of the disease. I cannot coincide with this opinion. In a great number of instances a slight effect of mercury on the mouth is sufficient; but there are instances in which that slight effect does not remove the symptoms, and which, when the remedy is carried further, so as to produce more considerable influence, the symptoms give way. In fact, I think we never see the symptoms of syphilis yield so rapidly, and so favourably, as in certain cases, where the remedy, perhaps, without our wishing it, has produced a pretty pro- fuse salivation. Under these circumstances we may notice a sudden and rapid amelio- ration of the symptoms, which we are not in the habit of seeing when the mouth is affected in a slighter degree only. Another question immediately connected with the same point is, how long the remedy should be continued ? Is it sufficient to destroy the venereal character of a sore and to produce the healthy process of restoration ? Would you leave it off then and leave the cicatrization to form of itself? May you discon- tinue the use of the mercury the moment the cicatrization is complete, or should you try to secure the patient from the occurrence of secondary symptoms, by proceeding with the employment of the remedy after that ? These are important questions, and we have no^ perhaps, the means of answering them satisfactorily. With respect to the first, however, it is certainly not safe to discontinue the use of the mercury before the sore is cicatrized all over. Then, secondly, is any good produced by continuing the use of the mercury after the cicatrization is complete, with a view of preventing a return of the symptoms ? This is a very important question, and if you refer to the best writers on the subject you will find but little to assist you. * * * General expe- rience, however, has led to a belief that perseveranee in the use of mercury for some time, say about ten days or a fortnight after cicatrization, has a beneficial effect in pr<> tecting the constitution ; so that persons when they have used mercury to tlie extent I had mentioned, are not in the habit of suddenly discontinuing it, but of carrying it on for a short time after the apparent removal of the disease, under belief that its continu- ance tends to prevent the recurrence of further evil.” (p. 732.) “ There are many in the present day,” observes Green (a), “ who seem to have » great aversion to mercury, and certainly if our opinion is to be formed from the prac- («) Unpublished Clinical Lecture on the Treatment of Syphilis.