232 ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE BY cellular contents of the enlarged cartilage corpuscles communicate ■with the diseased membrane by openings more or less extended Some of the ovoidal masses in the en- larged corpuscles may be seen half released from their cavities by the removal of the cartilage; and others of them may be observed on the sul)stance of the false membrane, close to the cartilage, -where they have been left by the entire removal of the cartilage which originally surrounded them. If a portion of the false membrane be gradually torn off the cartilage, the latter will appear rough and honeycombed. Into each depres- sion on its surface a nipple-like projection of the false membrane penetrates. The cavi- ties of the enlarged corpuscles of the cartilage open on the ulcerated surface by orifices of a size proportional to the extent of absorption of the walls of the corpuscle, and of the free surface of the cartilage. The texture of the cartilage does not exhibit, during the progress of the ulceration, any trace of vascularity. The false membrane is vascular, and loops of capillary vessels dip into the substance of the nipple-like pro- jections which fill the depressions on the ulcerated surface of the cartilage; but, with the exception of the enlargement of the corpuscles, and the peculiar development of their contents, no change has occurred in it. A layer of nucleated particles always exists between the loops of capillaries and the ulcerated surface. The cartilage, where it is not covered by the false membrane, is unchanged in structure. The membrane gene- rally adheres with some firmness to the ulcerating surface; in other instances it is loosely applied to it; but, in all, the latter is accurately moulded to the former, (p. 17-19.) The view given by Key, of the usual mode in which cartilage is absorbed, or as it is commonly called, ulcerates, is in the main similar to that held by Wilson, but more fully and more satisfactorily developed. Its correctness I cannot doubt, for I have seen it, I think more than once or twice, from the first commencement, in which, on carefully lifting up the new membrane, its perfect impress is perceived upon the cartilage, varying in depth and extent according to the thickness and size of the membrane, till the entire depth of the cartilage is removed and the membrane comes in contact with the bone, the articular surface of which is also destroyed either by it or by simultaneous inflammatory action set up in the cancellated structure of the bone. The preparations to which I allude are in St. Thomas’s museum, and some of the patients were under my own care.—• J. F. s. “ When suppuration,” Key continues, “follows acute inflammation, from a wound of the synovial membrane, the latter undergoes that change which enables it to per- form its new function. 'The surface becomes highly vascular, and, in most parts, covered with a new deposit of adhesive matter, which adheres firmly to the synovial membrane. The new surface is irregular, wanting the polish of the original membrane, and appears in many parts villous, or furnished with vascular fringed projections. In a joint thus far advanced in disease, the only mode of arresting the disease, or of repair- ing the mischief occasioned by the inflammation, consists in anchylosis. To this end, the removal of the cartilage is an essential step ; and it would appear that the oflSce of removing it devolves on the inflamed synovial membrane. The cartilage, under these circumstances, is not only eroded at the edge where the synovial membrane is reflected upon it, but grooves and indentations may be traced in various parts of it, having no con- nexion, as in the progressive strumous form of ulceration, with the edge of the synovial membrane, and not showing any indications of a new membrane forming on its surface. The means by which this ulceration is effected appear to be the newly organized surface of the synovial membrane in contact with the parts in which absorption is going on. To those who will carefully examine joints in this condition, the evidence of this will, I think, be sufficiently conclusive. The absence of all action in the cartilage, and the total want of vascularity in those parts where ulceration appears to be most active, were the circumstances that first led me to look for some agent in tlie work of ulceration. The ulceration evidently begins on the surface of the cartilage, and not on that side next to the bone. It presents merely an eroded surface; there is no disorganization of its texture in the parts where absorption is about to take place ; there is no previous dege- neration of the cartilage into its primary fibrous structure, as may be seen in other forms of ulceration; but the cartilage seems to have lost part of its surface, as if it had been dug out, the remaining part appearing healthy, and presenting no trace of increased vascularity. The grooves are found only in those parts of the cartilage tliat happen to be opposed to the fringed and vascular synovial membrane; and these highly organized portions of the membrane may be seen to be closely adapted, and even to fit into the grooves in the cartilage. Those parts of the cartilage tliat happen to be in contact with another cartilaginous surface present no signs nor trace of ulceration, but appear to the eye perfectly healtliy, and in texture firm. The process exhibits the closest analogy to that by which_nature removes dead bones; the same inactivity or pas-