150 INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. state of the body, a corresponding general treatment must be had recourse to ; according to the variety of the symptoms, leeches, mercurial friction, dispersing plasters, herb bags, and derivative remedies are to be used locally. If the inflammation be critical, every thing must be withheld which may produce its revulsion. If the swelling be accompanied with a proper degree of inflammation, it must be simply covered with a mild poultice; , if^the living activity in it be too low, stimulating poultices and plasters ; must be applied. 142. When suppuration has taken place the abscess either breaks of f itself under the use of the remedies mentioned in the treatment of ab- ■ scesses, in which case the cure commonly soon follows ; or the formation of! abscesses is accompanied with severe symptoms, delirium, lock-jaw, and ! so on, under which circumstances the swelling is to be soon and sufficiently • opened, so that the tension of the aponeurotic sheath of the gland may be ■ relieved. According to its condition, the abscess must be treated wth i soothing or stimulating remedies. The treatment is always tedious; ; knotty scars and detached hardnesses readily form. If a fistulous aperture r remain, through which the spittle flows, it must be treated by touching ; with lunar caustic, which, aided by proper compression, will close it (a). If f the gland become hard, it must be treated after the ordinary rules. III.—OF INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. ' ScHLEGEL, F. A., De Statu sano et morboso Mammarum in Gravidis et Puerperis.. Jense, 1792. Muller, fragmentarische Bemerkungen iiber die Entstebung und Heilung der r Entziindung und Vereiterung der Briiste bei saiigenden Weibern; in von Sieboub's • Chiron., vol. ii. p. 2, par. 344. Boer’s natiirliche Geburtshiilfe und Behandlung der Schwangern, Wochnerinnen und i neugebornen Kinder, Wien, 1817, vol. iii. p. 23. Benedict, T. W., Bemerkungen iiber die Kranklieiten der Brust und Achsd- - driisen. Breslau, 1825. 4to. I. IV. Cooper, A. P., Illustrations of Diseases of the Breast. London, 1829. 4to. Jeanselme, G., Memoire sur les Inflammations et les Abcbs duSein chezla Femme; : in Gazette Medicale. January, 1839. 143. Infiammation of the Breast {Injiammatio Mammarumi) occurs > in women either nursing or after that period ; and is situated either in the ' skin and cellular tissue alone, or in the parenchyma of the gland itselj. 144. If the inflammation occur during suckling, the breast on a sudden » becomes tense, red, and swollen. If the inflammation be superjicial, a i regular smooth and shining swelling may be felt, but the secretion of milk i does not always cease. In inflammation of the pareiichyma of the gland ; the swelling is harder, different knobby swellings are felt, and the secre- - tion of milk is completely stopped. It is not unfrequently accompanied : with febrile symptoms. 145. The superficial inflammation of the breast generally subsides of f itself; but, if the parenchyma be attacked, the inflammation at a certain : stage proceeds to suppuration, and not unfrequently liardening remains. 146. The usual causes of this inflammation are cold, mental excitement, . (o) For the fuitlier consideration of the treatment of fistulous opening in the parotid duct, sec Salinry ' Fistula, par. 902.