TREATMENT OF CHRONIC GONORRUCEA 173 must carefully avoid every excess. In the third case, when ulceration, stricture, or diseased changes of the prostate are present, the patient com- plains of pain at a certain point when touched and in making water. If the discharged fluid be frequently streaked with blood, it indicates an ulcer in which case, a suitable antisyphilitic treatment, sublimate as in- jection, and the use of bougies, is necessary. [Chronic gonorrhtca is commonly known by the name of Gleet, and is generally a thin transparent discharge unattended with pain, but under any exciteinent or excess it be- comes white, yellow, or greenish, and, if the excitement be great, even tinged with blood; in fact, the gonorrhceal innammation is re-excited. Astley Cooper considers it to “ proceed from the lacunffi of the urethra,” in other words, from the usual seat of gonorrhcea. But it is often a concomitant of stricture, and sometimes the use of a bougie will reproduce inflammatory action, and an increased discharge, capable of bringing on a yellow dis- charge, with pain in making water in the female, as happened in a case mentioned by Astlev Cooper, (p. 272.) And he observes:—“ Gleet is said to be that stage of gonorrhoea where the discharge ceases to be infectious. I doubt whether there is such a complaint as Meet, according to this definition, for I cannot help believing that a gonorrhoea never ceases to be infectious. * * * I doubt whether a gonorrhoea ever loses its power of causing infection as long as any discharge from the urethra remains.” (p. 270.) He men- tions instances, the first, in which infection followed a gonorrhoea of five months and three days, and the second after fourteen months. But Hunter gives a more remarkable instance, in which a girl, who had been for two years in the Magdalen Hospital, infected a person immediately after leaving that house, (p. 40.) And Tyrrel (a) says, that he “ saw a case once, where the gleet had existed for six or seven years, and had resisted various means, both local and constitutional, that had been tried for its cure.” He tried in this case, “ touching the under part of the urethra, just opposite the frsenum, with caustic. This application, for the time, stopped the discharge, but, as soon as the slough came away, it returned just as before, in the quantity of four or five drops a-day.” (pp. 566, 7.) Hence it appears that the disease will continue a great length of time. It is said that gleet resulting from gonorrhoea, may be distinguished from gleet ac- companying stricture; but I very much doubt it, and I think Cooper’s case, above cited, in which the man, whose stricture was irritated by the bougie, clapped his wife, supports my notion. Tyrrel, however, mentions the distinction between the two as follows :— “ If the gleet is merely gonorrhoeal, there will be a tingling sensation behind the frsenum, and, if the patient indulges in excess of any kind, or takes too violent exercise, this, to- gether with the quantity of the discharge, will be increased. If you ask the patient how he voids his urine, he will say, that the stream is free and uninterrupted to near the ex- tremity of the passage; then, that it stops for an instant, and afterwards passes very well; this symptom arises from the accumulation of the discharge near the lacunae. On the contrary, if there is stricture, the patient voids his ui-ine very badly; and this is influenced very considerably by change of weather, or by irregular conduct on the part of the pa- tient ; and, if you inquire more minutely, you will find that the stream of urine is small and completely twisted.” (p. 567.) Astley Cooper speaks of the possibility of confounding gonorrhoea or gleet with ab- scess in the lacunae; the latter, however, he observes, “ may be always known by its being absent for a week or more, and then flowing profusely, but not so in a gonorrhoea. And the matter from an abscess of the lacunae is not infectious, whilst the discharge, which begins a gonorrhoea and terminates in a gleet, never loses its power of producing infection.” (p. 271.) ^ p o In deciding upon the cure of gleet, let it never be forgotten that, so long as only six or eight drops of the discharge are observed during the day, or even if the lips of the urethra be merely moist with it, on rising in the morning, the cure is not effected, and the person ought not to marry, or he will infect his wife.—j. f. s.] Astlf^ Cooper’s treatment of gleet consisted in the use’of the following medi- cines :-K sptr. ather mtr. 3ij., bals. copaib. 3i., muc. acac. ji., mist, camph. Jiv.: ft mist, anus capiantur cwh. magn. bis terve indies; or, should that fail, R pulv. lutt gr i As to local treatment^e employed Imugies, either simply smeared with oil, or with nng. Injdr. mitius, or unq. In,dr. nitr. olud The latter first in proportion of a scruple of the salt to an ounce, and gradually increased ,n strength ; using at the same time injections, “ from which there would bfno Ser of stricture, as the bougie would prevent it.” The injection he preferred L (n) Clinical Lecture on Gleet; in Lancet, 1824. vol. ii.