163 QUESTION OF IDENTITY OF GONORRHCEA, &c. snpposite lit saltet retro, descendat fortiter per gradus et sternutet cum piilvere piperis vel cunrpenna in aceto in naribus, ita ut sperma prius receptum descendat, et tunc lavet se in decoctione rosie et plantaginis decoctariim m vino et furfure, et tunc ent secura. (p. 61) («). John of Arden, who lived tlirough the greater prt of this century, and at the aL of seventy years, in die year 1377, wrote “ propria sua manu, the MS. No. 7.i S the sLnifn ColL^ion,’ howevel speaks, in another MS. No. 2002 ^e «a™« tion, of the disease “ qui dicitur Chaude-pisse and Becketo quotes from another MS. a prescription of his, “ contra Incendutm,” which I have not been able to find. On the other hand, the generality of Surgical writers presume that syphilis liad not existed prior to the discovery of America, in 1492, or the siege of Naples, in 1495. 1 am not, however, by any means sure that even syphilis with its primary sores in shape ot chancres, was not known to John of Arden, if not indeed also to John of Gates- DEN, as hereafter I shall endeavour to prove. I have therefore merely referred to tne presumed later appearance of syphilis that I may avail myself of the opinions ot those who so think; but I believe that disease existed long before. It is not however, in reality, of much consequence, but simply a matter of literary curiosity, because the decision ot the question rests not there, but upon the experiments mentioned by Benj.Bele, and more especially on those performed by Hernandez and Ricord. “ Although,” Hunter says, “ it has been supposed by many, that the gonorrhcea and the chancre arise from two distinct poisons; and their opinion seems to have some founda- tion, when we consider only the different appearances of the two diseases, and the differ- ent methods of cure; which, in judging of the nature of many diseases, is too often all we have to go by : yet if we take up this question upon other grounds, and also have recourse to experiments, the result of which we can absolutely depend upon, we shall find this notion to be erroneous.” He proceeds to inquire into the introduction of the venereal poison among the inhabitants of the South Sea Islands, combats the opinion that chancre was first introduced into Otaheite, by stating that it was “ almost impos- sible to carry a chancre so long a voyage without its destroying the penis ; while we know from experience that gonorrhoea may continue for a great length of timeand deter- mines, for this reason, and also that “ only a gonorrhoea can be cured by simple means,” which seem all that the natives adopted, “ that the disease they had must have been a gonorrhoea,” (p. 14;) and “ that every form of the disease has been propagated from one root, which was most probably a gonorrhoea.” He then continues;—“ If any doubt still remains with respect to the two diseases being of the same nature, it will be removed by considering that the matter produced in both, is of the same kind, and has the same properties; the proofs of which are that the matter of a gonorrhoea will produce either a gonorrhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea; and the matter of a chancre will also pro- duce either a gonorrhoea, a chancre, or the lues venerea.” (p. 16.) To make this cir- cle complete he ought to show that the matter of lues venerea will produce gonorrhoea; but he distinctly states;—“ It has never yet been known to produce a gonorrhoea from the constitution.” (p. 308.) It must be here observed that Hunter considers chancre and lues venerea two distinct forms of the disease, the one primarily exhibiting it locally, and the other only through the constitution. To account for these two different effects of the same poison,” Hunter observes, “ it is only necessary to observe the difference in the mode of action of the parts affected when irritated, let the irritation be what it may. The gonorrhoea always proceeds from a secreting surface, and the chancre is formed on a non-secreting surface. * * * The poison, then, being the same in both cases, why do they not always happen together in the same person ? # * * Although it does not often happen so, yet it sometimes does, at least there is great reason to believe so. I have seen cases where a gonorrhoea came on, and in a few days after in some, in others in as many weeks, a chancre has appeared; and I have also seen cases where a chancre came first, and, in the course of its cure, a ranning and pain in making water have succeeded. It may be supposed that the two diseases arose from the original infection, and only appeared at difierent times. * * « I suspect,” he proceeds, “ that the presence of one irritation in these parts, becomes in general, a preventive of the other. I have already observed that the two parts sympa- thise in their disea.ses, and it is possible that that very sympathy may prevent the ap- pearance of the real disease; for, if an action has already taken place which isnot vene- real, it is probable that this sympathy will not cease while the cause exciting it exists ; and therefore when both happen in the same person at the same time, I suspect that eitner the urethra never had sympathised with the chancre, or if it did at first that sym- pathy had wased, and then the venereal matter might stimulate the parts to action.” (.pp. 1 /, 18.) It IS not at all clear what Hunter means by this sympathy between the (a) Edition of 1492. Pavia. M 2