124 PLASTIC OPERATIONS FOR SCARS. Dec. 13. Has continued going on well; but, last evening, being restless, she took morph, mur, as before, and had a tolerable night. Her bowels have been relieved this momine with castor oil; she is altogether comfortable and has a good appetite. The arm was dressed to-day with adhesive plaster; the sloughy edges are cleaning and the discharge is healthy, but the skin about the elbow is very loose. The fore arm is certainly more extended, though not considerably. Is to be dressed daily, and the extension kept up with the weight as she can bear it. To have a mutton chop to-morrow. Dec. 20. Has been improving since the last report; the wounds are granulating kindly and the edges of the skin becoming adherent. The fore arm has been gradually coming down, and now forms, with the upper, an angle of 135°. Dec. 24. The extension of the arm still continues increasing. The wounds are healing, but in front of the elbow and above it there is still a pretty large patch of granu- lations. She seemed so well that I thought she might get up, and directed that the extension should be persisted in, by tying a four-ounce weight to her hand, and leaving it to hang unsupported by her side for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour frequently during the day as she could bear it without much distress. This weight, however, was rather more than she could manage, and a medicine-spoon, about half the weight, was used instead, and was found quite sufficient to tire the muscles and keep up the exten- sion. Is to have a pint of porter daily. Jan. 24, 1845. Has been going on well, and is capable of carrying the spoon for a greater length of time without annoyance ; the wounds much diminished and still granu- lating kindly. She was yesterday attacked with slight head-ache, and is to-day feverish and has a quick pulse. R pidv. rhei c. hydr. aj. stat. Jan. 25. Tolerably well again, and the wound not disturbed. Feb. 26. Still going on well; the wound healing slowly; the arm still straightening, and, as she has not yet made any attempt at bending, it is pretty stiff. I therefore desired that she should begin to do so, and also that she should carry occasionally heavier weights, which, indeed, she is disposed of her own accord to do. March 7. Is beginning to bend the elbow a little, and since the last report carries with the right hand a two-gallon can of beer up a flight of stairs with little trouble. Is to exercise her arm by pulling a weight over a pulley fixed above her. March 11. The long wounds upon the fore arm are all but healed. Upon the inside of the upper arm from the elbow upwards is a granulating wound, about two inches long and an inch and a half wide, which is granulating kindly; but its healing seems retarded by the pull of the broad scar which deepens the back edge of the arm-pit. This I propose soon to set at liberty, by cutting vertically through its connexion with the trunk, and inserting a piece of skin from the back. In mentioning this case it must not be supposed I consider its success decisive; whe- ther it be so or not requires many months to prove, and depends, I believe, considerably on the favourable result of the proposed plastic operation. It has, however, gone on so very satisfactorily, that I have ventured to relate it here, and I hope in a future part of this work to mention the result.—J. F. S. Professor Mutter (a), a very intelligent surgeon of Philadelphia, has proposed the performance of plastic operations for the relief of deformities from bums, and has thus operated successfully in six out of seven cases, the first three of which he has published. All these were cases of forward contraction of the neck, with depression of the lower jaw, and eversion of the lip. His operation consisted in cutting across the middle of the scar, commencing in the sound skin on one and terminating in the sound skin on the other side of the neck, so that it was “ about three quarters of an inch above the top of the sternum,” * * • his object in making it so low down being “ to get at the attachments of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles,” both of which it was necessary to divide in the first, and one only in the second case, before tlie head could be raised to its natural position; but the head could be raised without dividing either, in the third case. A large gap was thus formed, into which was inserted a corresponding flap of skin, raised from the side of the neck, and from the deltoid muscle, without detaching it above, and fixed by several twisted sutures and adhesive straps. The edges of two-thirds of the wound on the shoulder were approximated with twisted sutures, and over the remainder, which could not be covered by the skin, a warm water pledget applied. The head was kept back by a bandage, and the patient then put to bed. She was not pcraiitted^ to take “ any kind of nourishment, in order that adhesion or union b)' the first intention might be accomplished,” till the third day after the operation, and then only a few spoonfuls of barley water every hour or two. On the third day after the operation the (n) Cases of Deformity from Burns succe-ssfully treated by Plastic Operations, Philadelphia, 1843. 8vo. Also, in American Journal of Medical Sciences, July, 1842.