! I DIVISION OF INFLAMMATION. 71 i attacked witli the disease better air and better nursing, and so on. Left ( alone, hospital gangrene is usually fatal. If it have proceeded to a certain t extent, art is rarely of any avail. I For the Literature of Hospital Gangrene, see p. 98. i 38. After the appearances and terminations of inflammation, which have 3 been described in general terms, we now come to those variations which \ inflammation may offer to our notice. ' The existence of inflammation depends always on unnaturally raised f' vital processes: manifold circumstances, however, may change the ap- rpearances and course of inflammation, and these changes are only to ' be considered as modiflcations of simple inflammation; and the more so, {’the less they correspond to what we understand by increased vital action. K The inflammation may be classed, 1st, according to its appearances j; and course ; 2nd, according to its causes; 3rd, according to the structure \ of the parts attached. 39. If the inflammation make its appearance with a certain intensity of its symptoms, and proceed rapidly, it is called acute; but, contrariwise, chronic, when the intensity of the symptoms is slight and their duration protracted, which condition may be either primitive or consecutive, de- pending on the constitutional condition. In regard to its character inflammation is further divided into simple, erethitic, torpid, malignant, i and obscure. In simple inflammation all the symptoms of inflammation i are present in a corresponding degree; it runs a speedy and most com- monly satisfactory course; it is almost peculiar to strong persons, who have good health; its termination, if not resolution, is generally suppura- tion. The erethitic and torpid character of inflammation are merely modifications according to the constitution of the patient and the degree oj the inflammation. In the erethitic inflammation the symptoms have I not the same degree of severity as in simple inflammation; the sensibility is, however, distinctly increased, and it therefore especially appears in persons of delicate constitution. The torpid inflammation has a re- markably tedious course, and its symptoms seem to depend rather upon a local obstruction of the circulation in the capillary-vascular system than upon an accelerated vital activity; all the signs of active congestion are wanting, the part is not bright red, but dusky and brownish. It occurs specially in weak, reduced, cachectic subjects. Simple inflamma- tion may also, under improper treatment, assume a torpid character. Malig- nant inflammation {Inflammatio maligna, gangrcenosa') is often painless, or accompanied by an obtuse, heavy pain and dusky redness: its cause is sometimes manifest as the effect of deleterious or contagious matter; at other times, it is unknown: it supervenes on typhus and putrid fevers, and usually runs into gangrene. Obscure inflammation (^Inflammatio occulta, clandestind) is that which is little or not at all indicated by symptoms. 40. Inflammation is divided, according to its different causes, into idiopathic, symptomatic, specific, and sympathetic. Idiopathic inflam- rnation is the consequence of external violence; it exists as a local I disease, and its severity is regulated by the degree of the injury and the ■ condition of the subject. Symptomatic inflammation, at least the definite i lorin under which it first appears, depends on internal causes, and the r ’""ammation itself is to be considered only as a reflection of the general f disease. If this be of a specific nature, as syphilis and so on, the inflam-