723 TREATMENT. jottom of the artificial the more favourable is the prog7iosis If hick probes (female catheters) be used for examination, they must be mnuectetl externally together after their introduction into the upper and ower end of the intestine, and turned upon their axes, which movement is mposed by the partition. When the ends of the intestine are disco- vered, the arms of the intestinal scissors should be so introduced into both jnds of the gut upon the finger, or on the hollow sound, that when closed at least two and a half inches of the partition shall be taken hold cf. The same turn is to be made with the introduced arms of the scissors is with the sounds, to ascertain that they have entered completely. By the screw on the handle of the scissors, they are to be closed only sufficiently 0 produce a little pain; the handle of the forceps is to be wrapped in inen and fastened to a T bandage. Every day, or every two days, the rbrceps are to be screwed a little tighter. If little pain follow it is well, jut if severe the forceps must be loosened. The patient must take light lourishment, and soothing clysters may be given. Against pain in the lelly, oily mixtures, soothing clysters, and applications are to be used, and n inflammatory sjTnptoms, the proper antiphlogistic remedies. According :o Dopuytren’s observations, however, these symptoms rarely occur. Dcpuytrex’s first intestinal scissors crossed each other with a disjoinable lock ; but Seiler has modified them by making the arms parallel (a). Liordat’s eviporte-piece, for the purpose of removing a larger piece of the par- ition (6). Reybard (c) seizes the partition between the upper and lower end of the intestine ffith forceps, and divides it by pushing forward his enterotome. The forceps are left ittached to produce the union of the corresponding wounds of the intestine. Delpech’s enterotome (d) differs from that of Duputtren in each of its branches, leing a little curved, and ending in an oval plate an inch in length. When introduced und brought together by the screw, in consequence of the curved form of the branches, inch portion only of the intestinal partition is compressed as is enclosed between the rwo plates. The object is to destroy a smaller portion of the partition at one time, and io repeat the process until a sufiicient opening shall be made in it. The form of the opening, Delpech also holds to be preferable to the lengthened slit made by Dupur- xren’s instrument. Desault was aware of the partition between the two ends of the intestine preventing die passage of the excrement, and endeavoured to retract and diminish the protrusion, partly by closing the external opening with a plug, partly by the introduction of long rolls of charpie into the two ends of the gut, which he gradually brought straight, pressed back, and diminished. With the same object Schmalkalden (e) made an opening into the projecting partition, which he endeavoured to preserve by introducing tents, and by careful notching, to increase and establish the natural passage for the excrement. [Our American brethren seem disconcerted at the invention of this mode of treat- ment being generally assigned to Dupuytben. After referring to Desault’s prac- :ice just mentioned. Dr. Gibson (y) observes :—“ A more expeditious and less trouble- some operation was proposed and successfully executed by Dr. Physick between the years 1808 and 1809. * ’" * An operation similar to that of Dr, Physick was after- wards performed by Dupuytben in Paris, and to him the merit of the proposal is awarded by European writers without the slightest foundation.” (p. 316.) Now cer- tainly, though our French neighbours are occasionally not particular in claiming that to which they are not strictly entitled, yet in the present instance, whatever may have been awarded to Dupuytben, he himself mentions in a note to his Memoir, Schmalkalden’s dissertation, though without giving particulars, and also specially quotes Dr. Physick’s plan of treatment from Dorsey’s Elements of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 67. He is therefore 30 far at least as Dr. Physick is concerned, entirely free from misappropriation. It cannot, however, be denied that Physick’s account is merely the recital of a case and of 1 novel operation for its relief, without entering into the consideration of the nature and fn) Seiler, above cited, pi. vi. f. 14. (e) Above cited. (,f) Institutes and Practice of Sureerv. vol. 11 Philadelphia, 1827. . , ,.1. vi. r. 14. {tn Above cited. (c) Above cited, (a) Fboriep’s Notizen, No. 583. p. 1C9.- inrgische Kupfertafeln,pi. cclxviii. -Chi- : 3 A 2