[ 608 ] IV.—OF THE OLD DIVISION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. Noel; in Journal Gdn6ral de Mddeciue, vol. iv, Saucebotte, ibid., vol. vii. Muksinna ; in Lodeii’s Journal, vol. i. p. G.58. Viet, De Ruptura Periim. Goettingaj, 1800. • V. Fabrice, C. E., Medicinisch-chirurgische Bemerkungen und Erfahrungen. Niim berg, 181G, p. 1. ScHREGEB, Anualen des chinirgischen Clinicums auf der Universitat zu Erlaneen 1817, p. 73. ® ' Roux, in Journal Hebdomadaire, vol. i. No. iii. Diefeenbach, Chirurgische Erfahrungen, besonders uber die Wiederherstellunir zerstorter Theile. Berlin, 1829. No. v. p. C4 ; and in the Medicinischen Vereinszei- tuug in Preussen. 1837. No. 52. Dgparque, Histoire eomplfete des Ruptures et De'chirures de rUtcrus, du Vagin, et du Perinee. Paris, 1836. 8vo. ° Mercier; in Journal des Connaissances Medico-ehirurgicales, 1839, March, p. 89. 741. Tearing of the -perineum may be consequent on difficult labour, when there is disproportion between the size of the child’s head and the extensibility of the external organs of generation or artificial narrowino-. The tear is often only at the vaginal edge of the perineum, but frequently extends throughout the greater part, more or less following the raphe to the edge of the rectum, or the whole perineum is torn into the rectum. Slight tearings of the perineum are of little consequence and generallv heal without assistance, the patient remaining constantly on her side with the thighs kept close together, and proper attention paid to cleanli- ness. But this rarely happens in large tears, as the wound is continually fouled by the lochial discharge, and at every time of going to stool the wound is opened. In complete tearing of the perineum between the vagma and rectum it is quite impossible to retain the stool if the greater part of the sphincter ani be torn. If in a torn perineum union cannot l)e effected, the two edges of the wound skin over, and the cure is only pos- sible by removing the skinned edges and by union with the stitch. From what has been said, it follows that in considerable tears of the perineum it is most safe immediately to effect its enclosure by stitching. It must not be overlooked, however, that the parts are rarely in a suitable condition for quick union, and that if there be swelling and inflammation of the edges of the wound, union is thereby contra- indicated. If the woman herself object to this treatment, if accompanying indisposition, or the circumstances already mentioned forbid it, the position on the side must be per- sisted in, with the thighs a little drawn up towards the body and tied together (1), also being taken for proper cleanliness, for soft motions, and for drawing oflf the urine from time to time with the catheter. The healing which in this way takes place in small tears of the perineum, does not depend on any union of the edges, but on its short- ening backwards, so that the labia pudendi extend back and occupy the place of the former wound. The greater the tear the shorter becomes the perineum, and the longer, on the contrary, the labia and great fissure, the former at the same time losing their fulness, and becoming thinner. If the tear of the perineum extend into the orijicium a»i. the labia are drawn backwards by the scarring, and their hind extremities are held together by whitish callous scar; it seems as if the anus had moved further back, and the labia were drawn with it. Sometimes there is a central tear of the perineum, and the whole child is thrust throngn it (a). The cure in this case may be eS'ected by the natural powers; but if the tear extend on the sheath of the rectum, it has never been seen to take place. Large and recent tears of the perineum can be alone satisfactorily treated with me stitch, as all other remedies proposed for bringing the wounded edges together, either (a) Dupuytben, PoUBCHiiiii; in Gazette Medicate, vol. iii. First Series, pp. 68t, 866.