COMPRESSION OF ARTERIES 300 Lampe; from the meningeal artery, by Faulquier and Graefe; for the epigastric artery, by Schendeer and IIesselback. ; and from bleeding from the penis, by Joachim. [For the purpose of suppressing the bleeding from arteries Carlisle (a) proposed the following plan of applying the tourniquet ou the lower extremities:—“ A hard roll of linen bandage, about four or five inches in width and three in thickness, being provided, and a piece of smooth board, nine inches in length, five in width, and three-quarters of an inch in thickness, with the sides and ends squared at right angles, the roller is to be placed on the ham midway between the external and internal flexor tendons on the under sides of the knee-joint, the leg being extended in a straight line; the piece of board is then to be placed over the roller, which is to act as a pad of compression on the popli- teal artery, the length of the board running crosswise, and projecting beyond the knee- joint on each side. The girth of the tourniquet is to go round the knee above (not upon) the patella, and over the projecting ends of the board. The screw should rest at the upper part of the limb above the patella, having a pad interposed between it and the skin. This mode of compressing the popliteal artery is attended with an important advantage ; it allows the arterial circulation by the lateral anastomosing vessels to pro- ceed uninterrupted; the large superficial veins also are undisturbed, so that the limb remains in the same state as if the artery alone had been tied.” He does not think it applicable at amputation, but “in all cases of haemorrhage, when there is a chance of saving the limb, it will be found preferable to the total stoppage of circulation by the ordinary methods.” (pp. 23, 4.) A much better apparatus for keeping up pressure than that of Carlisle’s is the ring tourniquet, which was first introduced at St. Thomas’s Hospital by Tyrrell (b), though I am doubtful whether he was the inventor. It has often been employed since, and is a very good instrument for the purpose. “ The ring tourniquet consists of a metal ring, having a diameter larger than that of the limb to which it is to be applied, and a width of about an inch; the circumference is tapped at one point so as to admit a screw, to the inner extremity of which a pad is fixed, and to the outer end a small handle to turn the screw with, by the action of which the pad can be carried to or from the centre of the circle. When applied, this instrument makes pressure only on two parts ; by the pad on the site of the artery, and by the portion of the ring immediately opposed to the pad, on the surface of the limb directly opposed to the position of the artery: thus it does not interfere with the lateral circulation.” (p. 20.) On much the same principle is the arch tourniquet of Dr. Oke (c), of Southampton, which “ consists of an arch, a pad, and screw. The flanks of the arch are perforated with holes for the action of the external screw, which is worked by a short handle, as in the common tourniquet. The pad is of the ordinary size, flat on one side and convex on the other. Upon its flat surface there is a smooth cavity for the reception and working of the point of the screw. Mode of application:—Let the arch embrace the limb, so that one of the perforations of the flank may be exactly opposite the cavity on the flat side of the pad, previously applied over die trunk of the artery to be com- pressed ; then fit the external into the internal screw, and work it upon the pad till sufficient pressure be made to stop the circulation of the artery.” (p. 151.)] 286. The compressing apparatus, wliicli is applied directly upon the wounded part, consists either in the application of special compresses, as mentioned in the former paragraph, or in the application of a bandage cn- closing the whole limb. Tlie application of the compressor has great dis- advantages, as, on account of the pain and inflammation, it commonly cannot be worn sufficiently long; the flow of blood through the whole limb is checked, or a complete flattening of the arterj% if it be not r very superficial, and lie immediately on a bone, cannot be effected, h or' this reason, therefore, if the compressing apparatus is to be used, espe- cially in wounds of the elbow, bandaging the limb is preferable to the use of compressors. After the bleeding has been arrested, by pressure on the; artery between the wounded part and the heart, the wound is to be cleansed, (fl) A. New Metliod of applying (he Tourniquet, (6) St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports. &c.; in Medical and PhysicalJournul, vol.i. Lon* Provincial Medical Journal, 1843. don,1799.