373 COMPLETE EXCISION OP WOUND. dog, and will come into contact with the ■virus, and will probably be contaminated, and .will then overflow the original wound, and will be received into^ the new incision, and will carry with it the seeds of disease and death; therefore it is, that scarcely a year passes without some lamentable iustauccs of the failure of incisions. It has occuried in the practice of tlie most eminent surgeons, and seems scarcely or not all to impeach the skill of the operator. Aware of this, there are very few human practitioners w’ho Jo not use the caustic after the knife. Every portion of the new wound is submitted to its iniluence. They do not consider the patient to be safe without this second opera- tion. Hut has the question never occurred to them, that if the caustic is necessary to give security to the operation by incision, the knife might have been spared, and the caustic done used?”(pp. 146-7.^ I do not, however, think his objections to the removal of the parts by the knife are sufficient, neither do I believe there is so much to be feared as he suspects of the contaniiiiatioii of the blood by the virus. I have no doubt that when the lisease appears after excision has been performed, that it is because all the infected part las not been removed, the surgeon having cut neither sufficiently widely above nor lelow the wound. If the operation be not performed immediately, or within a very ew hours, it is absolutely necessary that all the skin which has an inflamed appearance hould be removed ; and, as the operation even in the best hands is frequently a niggling ind tedious business, and the blood smeared over the skin tinges it so that the precise ■xtent of the inflammatory blush is rendered indistinct, a part of the irritated or inflamed kin is easily left behind, and with \t perhaps the seeds of the disease. To prevent this erious difficulty my esteemed master, Henry Cline, was accustomed to give directions or the performance of this operation which seemed trivial and useless, but were far itherwise; for in the treatment of the bite no attention, however minute, can be too ;reat. He directed that to prevent the possibility of any reddened and inflamed skin leing left behind, it should be encircled with a ring made with lunar caustic, the peedy blackening of which marked the whole part to be removed, and the incision to ■e made around and clear of such ring. To remove the very bottom of the wound probe ora skewer was to be thrust down as far as possible, and then all the soft parts arefully cut round it, so that they might be brought out like a glove-finger upon the robe or skewer, without cutting into the wound. This plan is that which I have dopted in the opportunities which I have had in operating early on these cases, and I elieve it to be the only safe proceeding, and the only way by which the whole of the affected part can be surely determined to have been removed. The subsequent free pplication of caustic potash is also advisable, as being the most sure means of de- troying any small quantity of the poison which may have been smeared over the fresh 'ound during the operation, or which may have escaped the knife. I do not believe lat there is any danger of “ the virus being suspended, or lying in the c mstic, potash, r nitric acid, (if that be used,) or of it being precipitated upon the living fibre beneath,” 0. 147,) as YouATTfears. The caustic of either kind must destroy the virus with which comes ill contact, as completely if not more so than the lunar caustic, the use of which OUATT advocates. And it fails, when it does fail, because it does not find its way ito every crack and cranny into which the poison has found its way. The knife is always to be used, where there is plenty to cut away, as in fleshy parts, ut in wounds, or rather superficial scratches with the teeth upon the face, some sur- eons prefer using caustic potash. I would not even on the face, however, make an ex- iption to the use of the knife, for to do any real good, a scar, often a large one, must J mad'-, and as it is of no consequence by what means this is produced, the knife is pre- amble. If the lip were bitten, I should consider it right to remove its entire thickness by le same operation as for hare-lip; and if the cheek 1 should not hesitate as the safest and nest proceeding to cut the whole part through into the mouth, and then there would be either difficulty nor danger in bringing the edges of the wound together with pins, id confining them with the twisted suture. If the finger, hand, or foot, were bitten Iirough. 1 my.self would readily submit to amputation of the injured part. No opera- an can be considered uiiadvisable. or too severe, which will give a patient the slightest lance of security from this most dreadful disorder. Half measures on the part of the edical attendant are here actually criminal, and no surgeon who has once witnessed le awfully horrible and hopeless condition of a hydrophobic palient, will, I am sure, lie do his duty, neglect this the most sure remedy he can employ to ward off the iwibility of the poison being retained in the system. I My friend Sams tells me, that he knew a young lady in India twenty years ago, who I'len a child, three years of age, was bitten in the neck, just above the insertion of the ■ trapezius, by a mad pariah dog. The station where she lived was forty miles distant |om a medical man; but before his arrival, Iier father, a civilian, with much presence