398 REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. excepting the vision of the injured eye. The memory is very defective. He is incap. able of applying to any pursuit requiring mental activity. His disposition is irritable, especially after indulging in liquor, or after any unusual stimulus He has occasional ' pain on the injured side of the forehead, and has once since had typhus fever. His bodily health is now good, and he has the free use of his limbs.” (p. 16.)] 399. In these wounds the first indication always is the careful search for and withdrawing of foreign bodies ; if they stick fast in the membranes of the brain or in the brain itself, an attempt must be made to loosen them by a cut, and to draw them out without violence. Balls in the sub- stance of the brain are to be discovered by careful probing: if they l)e superficial they may be often withdrawn with a pair of forceps ; care, how- ever, must be taken that they be not pushed further into the brain (1). The head is to be put into such position that the fluids may readily escape, by which also the foreign body often moves, so that at a later period it can be drawn out. Trepanning is therefore always necessary when the given object cannot be attained by the existing wound (2). The dressing; should be mild; the wound covered lightly with dry charpie, a compreas and fastened with the three-cornered head-cloth. The after-treatment must correspond to the degree of inflammation. According to A. Cooper (a) pieces of bone penetrating the brain, if symptoms of pres- sure do not exist, should not be removed, because thereby, in all probability, extravasa- tion would ensue. Brodie (b) recommends that foreign bodies penetrating the brain . should only be drawn out if it can be done without any fresh wound, and he endeavours t to support this opinion by cases. [(1) Hennen’s observations upon this point appear to me very important He says• “We would also naturally remove all extraneous bodies within view or reach; but t before we commence any unguided search after them, we ought seriously to balance the • injury that we may inflict. I by no means wish to be imderstood to say, that we ought t not to endeavour cautiously to follow the course of a ball, when unfortunately it has got ! within the cavity of the cranium. M. Larrey asserts that can be done with safety and i effect. He informs us that he traced a ball which entered the frontal sinus of a soldier t during the insurrection at Cairo, by means of an elastic bougie, from the orifice to the e occipital suture, in the direct course of the longitudinal sinus ; and, by a corresponding gj measurement externally, he was enabled successfully to apply a trepan over it and ex- .4 tract it; the patient recovered. M. Percy, on the other hand, gives a fatal instance ti where a ball was absolutely within reach of the forceps, and yet, for want of a sufficient t opening, and manual dexterity in the operator, it slipped into the brain ; and althon^ a the opening was enlarged by the trepan, it could not be recovered. In the works of some of the older authors we meet with cases where epilepsy and various other bad symptoms have followed the attempts at extracting arrows and other missiles sticking in the brain; and in more modem practice there are many instances where patients have.. lain in a state of apoplectic stertor, with a ball lodged in the brain, for some time, but. have expired on its removal. One instance of this kind has been reported to me, where ■ a soldier died the very moment the ball was extracted. A modern surgeon would be • severely and justly censured for not at least making a trial; but we are encouraged to look for the eventual safety of our patients, when the course or actual site of the l>all of other body is unknown, by recorded and well-authenticated instances of life being pre-' served, when they either have not been looked after, or their existence has not been, suspected. The records of Surgery furnish us with many proofs of metallic and other bodies lying for long periods between the cranium and dura mater; but experience shows that the extraneous bodies may lie even in the brain itself without producing' death. I have seen no less than five cases where a ball has lodged in the substance oi the cerebrum, without immediately producing a fatal event.” (pp. 288, 289.) Lawrence also mentions an example of a young man who discharged a brace ol pistols into his mouth. One bullet “ was found in the neighbourhood of the jaw, but the other was not to be met with at all. Inflammation of one eye took place after tm accident, the cornea became turbid, and'the sight of it was lost.” He lived a fortnijtnt and on examination the other bullet was found to have gone through the the globe, on the side on which the sight was afterwards lost. It had entered tin (a) Lectures on Surgery, by Tyukell, voI. i. p. 315. (4) .■Vbove cited, p. 413.