803 OF THE THIGH-BONE. 1 iland are lienee ciistinguislied fi-om tlie changed position of the head of :he bone. These experiments may be made without pain and with tlie I greatest ease. 1081. In the cases examined after deatli by DuruvxiiEN, all the muscles ippeared pressed agtiinst the iliac crest, and drawn up ; some of them were ,'ery much developed, others shrivelled, atrophic, and even converted into I yellowish fibrous tissue. The thigh-bones were naturally formed, and mly sometimes the inner upper part of the head varying somewhat from ts rounded form. The socket was eitlier entirely deficient, or appearing mly as a little irregular bony protuberance, without any trace of cartilage ind ligament, and without any fibro-cartilaginous edge; and about and iver it, the cellular tissue and the muscles attached to the trochanter. Duly in one case was the sound ligament lengthened, flattened, and at ome parts, as it were, worn out by pressure and friction. The head of the bone was found in a kind of neAvly formed socket on the external iliac pit, always very superficial, and having an undefined edge. Palletta found the under fore-part of the socket covered with ligament, and the upper hinder-part filled with a fat-like mass; the head of the bone round, inclosed in a tough capsule, connected with the fatty mass in the socket by the round ligament, which was so long that it permitted the head to move upwards and downwards, and aside. No hollow in the bone in which the head of the thigh-bone should rest, had been formed in a child who had lied sixteen days after birth. Hence, it seemed, that the above-mentioned absence of socket, and so on, was not original, but only consequent, and that :his dislocation was, perhaps, simply produced by the peculiar position of ^hefcetiis, or by violence during birth. The flattening, or almost com- olete disappearance of the socket, is explained by the long continuance of :he dislocation, and must be so much more distinct in the congenital, as in he progressive development of the pelvic bones it so easily occurs. The opinion, that the congenital dislocation depends on an arrested develop- nent of the bony parts of the joint (Breschet) is very improbable, rests )nly upon the relations of the socket, after the dislocation has been long 3xistent, and remains refuted by Palletta’s and Cruvelhier’s cases, 111 it can be determined by examination at the veiy earliest period after ()irth. Compare par. 998 and the writers there quoted. 1082. Difficult £is is the walking, and great as the lameness in this con- jenital dislocation, especially when on both sides, yet hotvever it may be, .11 time, considerably improved when the head of the bone is fixed in its new socket (1). Dupuytren recommended rest and a sitting posture to affect the fixing of the head of the bone, and to permit the muscles, as ittle as possible, to act upon it; for strengthening the parts in the neigh- lourhood of the joint, daily washing of the body for some minutes in cold vater, or saltwater, and the constant wearing a padded leather belt, put on letween the iliac crest and the great trochanter, and kept in its place by ihigh-straps. Recently, various attempts for the reduction of this dislocation, have leen made by long-continued extension, and fixing the thigh with proper ipparatus. (Duval, Jalade Lafond, Humbert, Pravaz (2), Gue'rin.) The po.ssibility of a successful result is not, as already said in regard to •■he origin of this dislocation, to be considered as a thing decided, and must 1 3 F 2