229 CARTILAGE. Brodte, however, holds there is “ sufficient to prove that the articular cartilages may e absorbed or ulcerated from the action of their own vessels, and that the ulceration may egiii, and frequently does begin, on that surface which is towards the articular cavitj^. it the same time it is to be observed that in many instances the ulceration o^gins m uother situation, and I have freciuently seen the cartilage abraded where it had been 1 contact with the bone, while on the surface, towards the Cavity of the joint, it re- laiiied smooth and perfect. Under these circumstances the space formed by the ab- arption of the cartilage becomes filled up by a vascular substance resembling granula- ons, and uniting the bone and cartilage to each other. In whatever way the ulcera- ioii of the articular cartilages is produced there is this remarkable difference between t and the ulceration of soft parts : suppuration seldom takes place while the ulcer of lie cartilage is small, and often the disease proceeds so far as^ to cause caries of the ones to a great extent without matter being formed in the joint. This circumstance 5 deserving of notice. It has long been established, that suppuration may take place rithout ulceration, and it appears that, in this instance, ulceration occurs without the brmation of pus.” (pp. 11(3, 17.) Lawrence (a) also says, that “ ulceration of cartilage” not only takes place from other auses, but “ as an original affection of the joints. Without any disease of the synovial aembrane, without the occurrence of any accident or injury, it may commence as a irimary or original affection of the joint itself. The ulceration is attended with two ircumstances which are very different from those we observe in ulceration of other tructures. There is no formation of pus, nor do we ever find granulations produced rom diseased cartilages—no attempt at reproduction of the cartilaginous structure, llthough ulceration of the cartilages may be in the first instance limited to the cartila- pnous structure itself, yet it soon involves other parts of the joint. It extends in the irst place to the bony articular extremities, which become ulcerated, and are, in common anguage, rendered carious; the synovial membrane and external soft parts about the oint become inflamed: small abscesses form and break externally; a succession of these hkes place in various parts of the joint, and a number of fistulous openings are established bout the joint, giving place to matter, and, in many cases, to carious portions of bone. The ulcerative process often extends to the ligaments that connect the articulations; the onsequence of which is, that the bones are no longer retained in their relative positions, ut are thrown into certain unnatural directions by the action of the strong muscles of he limb.” (p. 483.) According to Key’s views, the ulceration of cartilages, commonly so called, depends n four conditions, in three of which “ the cartilage,” he says (b), “ is not absorbed per f, but through the agency of a stinicture, probably evolved for the special purpose of ompleting that process,” and the fourth is “ the result of disorganization of texture.” 'he first two forms, viz., “ the loss of articular cartilage that attends upon the chronic iflammation of the synovial membrane, and the more active destruction of the articular irtilage that attends acute inflammation of the joint,” appear to me simply modifica- ons of the same process by the degree of the inflammatory action, and, therefore, to e considered as one form, either in its chronic or acute stage, as may be, the result f which is the production of a vascular and absorbing membrane from the synovial lembrane. The next is “ the absorption of cartilage that accompanies strumous disease f the cancellated structure of bone,” or that condition mentioned by Brodie, in which the cancellous structure of the bones is the part primarily affected; in consequence f which ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering their articulating surfaces.” ). 226.) The consideration of this form must be deferred to Inflammation of the Joint- ids of Bones, (par. 221-24.) The last condition, much less frequent, is that in which ey says, “ that structure (cartilage) appears to undergo a change in its organization, idependent of foreign agency. * ’•' * An action altogether different from absorption, id analagous to the softening of the intervertebral substance.” To which he applies le term “ disintegration, in contradistinction to absorption, the one being a loss of sub- ance from an absorbing action, the other being the result of a disorganization of tex- re. It is the primary ulceration of cartilage described by authors.” (pp. 134, 35.) Of the absorption of cartilage by a new membrane produced by inflammation of the novial membrane, EY (c) thus speaks:—“ In a manner analogous, in many respects, to the process removing dead bone, does nature achieve the task of absorbing the cartilaginous nicture covering the articular extremities of bones. These structures possess but ,, (a) Lectures in Lancet. v(^B,i jn Ul<=e™tivo Process ; (c) On the Ulcerative Process in Joints: in Med.- •■neU.H.ilnr. Trans., vol. xix. Cliir. Trans., vol. xviii.