685 PEOGNOSIS, TREATMENT. flammation and swelling, and afterwards attacks the soft parts whWi^ inent of the disease, were almost, or entirely free from it. The scrofulous differs espe- cially from rheumatic caries, which is also situated in the joint ends, but arises from iuflamniatiou of the soft parts, the ligaments and synovial niembrane, and thence some- times seizes on the artiLlar surface itself. 'Hie arthritic no less prefers the region of the joints, but attacks the external surface of the bone, having been mostly preceded by the formation of exostoses. In general, arthritic concretions are observed in its im- mediate neighbourhood. The syphilitic caries seems to he, next to the scrofulous, most frequent, but contrariwise, almost only resides in the compact s^stance of the bone; and then the scorbutic. These are especially distinguished, in that for the most part, the former is accompanied with the formation of exostoses, and that these exostoses are the seat of ulceration; whilst in the latter, but very rarely do exostoses appear, (p. 21(5.)] 864. Tlie progtiosis deperuis on the constitution, age, and circumstances of the patient, on tlie causes which have produced the caries, and on its seat. The prognosis is most unsatisfactory in ve^ great general and es- I pecially in scrofulous ailment, and if the caries exist in the neighbourhood of a joint. If the hectic fever have exhausted the powers of the patient, i the removal of the limb is often the only remedy. But in many cases, especially in young persons who have reached the age of puberty, nature effects the cure by her own powers, and in the following manner:—the air being kept from the diseased bone by the contraction of the fungous edges of the aperture of the ulcer, it either dies completely and is thrown off with suppuration as a granular powder, or in flakes, or in its whole tlilckness {Exfolialio sensibilis) ; or it is removed by absorption, {Exfo- liatio insensibilis,') whilst at the same time granulations arise from the bone, the suppuration improves and diminishes, and the external ulcer gradually closes. 865. As regards the treatment of caries, its causes must be first coun- teracted ; the suitable mode of cure must be directed against scrofula, ' syphilis, rickets, gout, and so on, and close attention must be paid to the state of the patient’s powers, which are to be supported by proper remedies, and especially by good nourishing diet, and by the enjoyment of good air. 866. The local treatment of the ulcers requires great cleanliness in dressing ; the carious part must be defended from the approach of the air, and the free escape of the ichor must be provided for. To this end, if the situation of the ulcer in the soft parts do not permit the ready escape of the ichor, enlargement of the ulcerated opening is frequently needed. In other respects the local treatment agrees entirely with that generally applied to ulcers. The openings of the sores are to be covered super- ficially with lint, all stuffing and introduction of tents are to be avoided, moist warm applications of chamomile or other aromatic vegetables are to be used, rubbing in of volatile salves or spirituous fluids on the neigh- qouring parts, and the use of general or local aromatic baths. In inflamma- tory affections, leeches should be applied around ; gray mercurial ointment I rubbed in, and softening applications made. By this treatment it is ex- H pected that the vitality of the diseased bone may be changed, and that . it should exfoliate imperceptibly or perceptibly; and in the latter case, pro- J vision must be made for the removal of the separated portion of bone I Tliis mode of treatment is preferable to the use of injections of warni t water, of slightly astringent decoctions, or aromatic vegetables, as chamo- j miles, oak, chestnut, or Peruvian bark, or green walnut shells: of dilute i phcisphonc acid of a weak solution of sublimate, of lime water, kreosote J and so on ; or if the secretion of the ichor be copious and stinking, some