309 OF ARTERIES. artery grows too'ether up to the next collateral branchj and is converted into an impervious thread. In these changes, produced by torsion of arteries, perfect accordance with those produced by ligature is observed. If the torsion be not sufficient, the knot may untu'ist itself, and bleeding take place. By its proper contraction and also by its shortening, pro- duced by the torsion, the artery is retracted into the soft parts, which offers some obstacle to the flow of blood, although at every pulsation it is somewhat projected. [In speaking of the suppression of hcemorrhage, John Hunter makes some observa- tions which may here be very suitably introduced as bearing on the subject of torsion. “ Another mode of suppressing hsemorrhage,” says he (a), “ arises out of the natural, and may be considered in some degree as natural. It is a property in flexible bodies to have their diameters contracted as they are lengthened; in arteries this might be carried to a great degree when permanent efi'ects are to be produced. It is neces- sary that they should be lengthened so much as to destroy the contractile power; for this is the way Nature takes to stop the bleeding of ruptured vessels. Thus we see that arteries which are lacerated will more readily stop bleeding than if cut with a sharp instrument, as was proved in the case of the miller related by Cheselden, and this is the way nature takes to stop the bleeding of the navel string in beasts. Surgeons do not take advantage of this; but farriers and gelders do, as their practice of tearing the artery through, in gelding animals, shows.” Upon this Palmer observes (a)“The principle of torsion, as practised by several of the French surgeons, is precisely the same as that which is here laid down in respect of lacerated arteries ; that is, the extremity of the artery is drawn to a point, and does not return to its original calibre, in consequence of the destruction of its elasticity. We may also further add that the rupture of the internal and middle tunics, which gene- rally happens on these occasions, will tend to occlude the mouths of the vessels still more completely by entangling the blood among the lacerated fibres, and promoting its coagulation. But how far the first of these efi’ects, or the obliteration of the calibre of the vessel, depends on the destruction of any vital property, as of muscular contractility, may well be questioned, since the same efi'ect takes place on dead arteries when simi- larly treated.” (pp. 539, 40.)] 296. Various methods of using torsion have been proposed. According to Amussat, the artery should be taken hold of, and drawn out five or six lines above the surface of the wound, by forceps of suitable breadth, and furnished with an apparatus for closing them; the vessel is then to be separated from the surrounding parts with another pair of for- ceps which have rounded and rough points, or with a small knife, so that it may be entirely isolated. At the point where the artery still remains in contact with the soft parts, it is to be seized and fixed with the second pair of forceps, or with the fingers of the left hand. The artery is then to be turned round upon its axis until the end is torn off, when the bleed- ing is certainly stopped. Below the fixed part no blood is found in the canal of the artery. If no forceps be at hand, the artery, in pressino- teases, may (as was proposed by Galen) be pierced with a needle or with a nail, and so twisted round. Thierry seizes the artery with a pair of broad forceps which shut close, but neither fixes the vessel nor draws it out. In small arteries four, in larger six, and in the largest ten turns may be made, without going so far las to tear the vessel through. I According to Fricke, the artery should be gently drawn out six or Iseven lines, but not fixed, so that the twisting may not extend to the part Iwiiere the artery is still connected with the other parts. The artery tlius Iheld should be separated by another pair of forceps from the surrounding Iparts. For holding the vessel Fricke employs a pair of simple forceps, I (a) I.«ctures; Palmer’s Edition.