31 RESULTS—RESOLUTION. disease have some specific quality ■which simple inflammation has not; and in such cases it is the specific quality -which is the disease, and not the inflammation.” (p. 260.) “ There are many constitutions which have a tendency to specific diseases, that, when injured by fever or any constitutional complaint, readily produce the specific inflam- mation in such parts of the body as have the greatest susceptibility for any specific action; or, if snch parts are affected by any local violence, the parts afiected will not go through the healthy adhesive inflammation, nor will they enter into the healthy suppu- rative inflammation, but will fall into the specific inflammation peculiar to the habit: such is the case with an erysipelatous habit. Or, if a specific inflammation has already taken place, any violence done to it, when already begun, will increase that disposition and action, which we plainly see to be the case with the scrofula, because this disease can, and often does, arise from such a cause alone.” (p. 261.)] 6. The results of inflammation are resolution^ exudation, suppuration, ulceration, induration, and various other transformations of organs, softening, and mortification. All these conditions, excepting resolution, are merely different living processes, which are brought about by inffam- mation, and are still accompanied by it for a long time. 7. In Resolution {Resolutio, Lat.; Zertheilung, Germ. ; Resolution, Fr.) the appearances of inflammation subside nearly in the same order as in their development they set in with, and the diseased part reverts to its natural condition. The pain diminishes, or disappears first; in the same degree the temperature and the redness lessen, the swelling alone often -remains for a still longer time, till the absorption of the serous or albumi- nous fiuid poured into the cellular tissue is completed. We may hope for this result when the inflammation has not quickly run on to a great extent, the pain neither particularly severe nor throbbing; and when the fever accompanying the inflammation terminates critically in perspiration and deposit in the urine. Resolution is distinguished from the disappearance or recession ( Verschwinden oder • Zurucktreten, Germ.; Delitescence, Fr.) of inflammation, which is in general con- inected with its simultaneous or speedy development in another organ. This recession ■.depends on the succession of an irritation which is more severe than that which •kept up the earlier inflammation. It is often merely a state of changed vital activity, of increased sensibility, whieh produces the removal of the inflammation, partieularly if it be treated -with repelling astringent remedies. Certain inflammations, as erysipelas, and critical inflammations, have a peculiar disposition to recede. [The process of resolution has been well described by Dr. J. H. Bennett, as fol- lows ;—“ Resolution or absorption of the exudation may occur in various ways, and follow any of the transformations of the exudation except the one which converts it into permanent tissue. The early phenomena first disappear; the capillaries recover their contractility; the attraction between the blood and the parenchyma ceases; and the blood within the vessels begins to oscillate, and at length flows in a continuous stream. Secondly, the essential phenomenon disappears, no further exudation takes place, and that already poured out is absorbed. It occasionally, though rarely, hap- pens, that the exudation does not coagulate for some time after it is exuded. Under these circumstances, when the early phenomena terminate, it re-enters the vessels by -sndosmosis, unchanged. In the majority of cases, however, it coagulates, and, once rendered solid, it could never be absorbed without the occurrence of changes in it hy which it is amin rendered fluid. This is effected by the formation, ripening and disin- ;egration or decay (moulting process of Schulz) of nucleated cells, whereby the coagu- lated exudation is broken up, made soft, pultaeeous, and diffluent, and at length ah- ■iorhed. By this process exudation poured out into the lung or brain gradually disap- ■3ears, by the production of inflammatory softening. On the serous surfaces the fluid md broken down corpuscles are absorbed; but that portion which passes into perma- lent organization, is transformed into fibrous tissue, becomes covered with a smooth •nembrane, so that the functions of the organ are not disturbed. Abscesses when •esolved undergo a similar process. The pus-cells, instead of being evacuated, are orought closely together from the absorption of the more fluid portion {liquor puris.) 1 hese are gradually broken down, the cell-walls are dissolved, and the whole is