ERYSIPELAS. 102 accident; but then it is commonly a secondary inflammation, although not always; for, the first shall have gone off, and, when the suppuration was to take place, it shall have come kindly on, but afterwards the erysipelatous shall take place. • * * It is more commonly a cutaneous inflammation tlian situated in the deeper-seated parts ; although, in some constitutions, every inflammation, wherever it exists, will most probably be of this kind; however, the skin appears to be most susceptible of it, because it will spread over a prodigious surface of skin, while it does not affect even the cellular mem- brane underneath. * * * It is more common in the summer than in the winter, more especially in hospitals ; and, 1 think, takes place oftener after wounds on the head than any other. I have often seen it begin round a wound on the scalp, extending itself over the whole head and face; the eyelids being very much swelled, the ears thickened, and it has advanced to the neck, shoulders and body; creeping along both arms, and terminating at the fingers’ ends: that which attacks the body, often goes along the body to both thighs, down the legs, and terminates at the ends of the toes; and, while this is going on, it is as expeditiously cured behind, and the skin peels off the cured parts: however, this is not always the case; it often stops, and where it proceeds so far, it is commonly becoming milder.” (pp. 270, 1.) The form of the disease just described by Hunter, is the erratic erysipelas of Willan and B.iteman. It, however, more commonly occurs on the limbs and body, than on the head, and frequently accompanies punctured wounds, or poisoned wounds in dissection. In the latter cases, it is often extremely troublesome, and continues for weeks; making its appearance in the neighbourhood of the wound, after the more severe symptoms, either without or with suppuration and sloughing, have subsided, and the patient seems nearly convalescent: it will run up and down finger after finger, consecutively, and I have known the fingers thus affected twice or thrice during the same attack. That form of the disease which sometimes follows scalp-wounds is rather the cedema- tous erysipelas of Willan and Bateman than the erratic. It is described by those writers “ of a paler red, or of a yellowish-brown colour, is accompanied by less heat and local distress” than true, or even erratic erysipelas; “ its surface is smooth and shining, and, if it be strongly pressed with the finger, a slight pit remains for a short time.” The scalp swells enormously, and the disease spreads more or less slowly and extensively, till “ the whole face is much enlarged, so that the form of the features is scarcely recog- nised, and the appearance is not unaptly compared by Willan to that of a bladiler dis- tended with water.” (p. 127.) Generally, as far as I have observed, this oedematous erysipelas is not accompanied with vesication.—J. F. S.] B. A metastatic deposit in the cellular tissue, periosteum, and glands, in gastric, rheumatic, arthritic, and puerperal diseases. In such cases, when the masses deposited are fluid, the parts attacked quickly die, and are given up to the ulcerative process. Often, within a few hours, in a previously healthy part, (mostly of the thigh or leg, especially on the right side in persons advanced in years,) a redness of the skin comes on with fluctuation and diffused pain, in which, after opening the abscess, whole sheets of dead cellular tissue may be withdrawn ; and, if the perios- teum be involved, the bone may be felt bare. Usually, liowever, its course is not so quick; the local pain is preceded by more or less severe shiverings which, from their repeated accessions, resemble an ague. The fever continuing, the skin is rosy red at the painful parts, and somewhat oedematous, so that it retains the impression of the finger. The fever becomes more active, the swelling harder, the redness bluish, the skin I grows sliining and blisters, the cellular tissue is hard and firm, the | urinary and fecal discharges are changed and suppressed ; with accom- j panying restlessness, and great agitation. At this point the disease seems to stand still; the heat, tension, and pain are unaltered; the vesicles have the same appearance. If at this time the skin and cellular tissue be cut into, a quantity of whitish fluid with a little pus escapes, a few days after, less of the thin fluid, and more pus ; and, still later, a whitish lard- like substance, and upon pressure only a very little pus; the cellular tissue is dead. When it has gone thus far, the skin is destroyed, the