DISLOCATION IN GENERAL. (a) Luctiires in Uncet, 1829-30, vol. ii. W Oaxette Mcdicalc. 7G4 that dislocation of the lower jaw is produced, most commonly in yawning ; the jaw i» excessively depressed, tlie temporal muscle is so twisted over the pulley tliat it has little power, and then the external jiterygoirl muscles pull the necks of the jaw forward, and throw the condyles on the articular eminences. Lawrence (a) mentions a dislocation of the shoulder having occurred from muscular action, the patient “ had been sitting up in bed to take a dose of medicine, when stretching out the arm to take hold of the cup, without making any exertion, or taking up any particular weight, the humerut became dislocated. Now although the bone came out so easily, yet it did not go Ijack into its proper situation witli facility ; for it required a pretty strong pull to return it” (p.477.) Dislocations may also result from the laxity of the ligamentous capsules of jointc Astley Cooper mentions one of a dancing-girl capable of throwing the knee-cap from the articular surfaces flat upon the side of the outer condyle of the thigh-bone, in whom this had been produced by violent exertion when a child, (p. 11.) And another case in which a young lad had had, whilst on board ship, his foot placed on a small projec- tion on deck and his arm lashed tightly towards the ship’s yard, and so kept for an hour, the result of which was that he had the power of readily throwing his arm out of the shoulder-joint, merely by raising it to his head ; but it was reduced by very slight e.xtension. (p. 13.) He also gives another case, on the authority of Brindley, in which a man of fifty years had a dislocation of the thigh which he was capable of producing and reducing at pleasure. (2) My friend, the younger Travers, has informed me that he had in February 1843, a case of dislocation into the ischiatic notch, in a boy of five years old, wlio, whilst at play in a paved yard, slipped down and was unable to rise. He could neitlier walk nor maintain the erect posture. All the symptoms of dislocation were present; the head of the bone was resting upon or next to the margin of the ischiatic opening, not having as yet sunk into the cavity of the notch, which Travers considers, is always a secondary result of this accident. There was some mobility of the limb. The hc4d of the bone was almost immediately reduced, by confining the pelvis with a strap upon a firm deal table, turning the child upon his sound (the left) side and making the usual extension, with slight rotation outwards and raising the knee. This is the earliest instance of accidental dislocation with which I am acquainted.— J. f. s. (3) Malgaigne has made an interesting inquiry into the frequency of dislocation in the different joints, and from this it appears, that of 491 cases there were of— Dislocations of shoulder 321 thumb . 17 knee . . 7 hip 34 wrist . 13 spoke-bone . 4 collar-bone. 33 fingers . 7 knee-cap . . 2 elbow . 26 jaw . 7 spine . . 1 foot 20 And also that from the age of two to fifteen years, dislocation of the shoulder occurred only once out of four dislocations, but after sixty years about once out of one and a half (6)]. 986. In every complete dislocation, the capsular and other ligaments, as also frequently the tendons and muscles surrounding the joint are torn; only in great laxity of the ligaments of the joint, and large collections of sy?iovia, is dislocation without tearing possible. If the head of the bone be soon returned to its natural position, in general there are iiot any decided symptoms ; but if it remain any length of time out, of the joint, it acts as a foreign body on the surrounding parts, and the socket is gradually filled up. If it be in contact with the cellular tissue, it so compresses and thickens it, that it, as it were, forms a capsule around the head of the bone, whilst the torn ligaments are still attached to the surrounding jmrts; the muscles lose by pressure, their structure, their power of contraction, and becomes almost fibrous. If the head of the bone lie upon a bone, it forms a hollow in it, around the edge of which bony growths take place, by which the head is more or less perfectly inclosed. In .such old dislo- cations the motions of the joint are always more or less interfered with, the nourishment of the joint suffers, it wastes, and the muscles become lax.