433 WINDPIPE. the larynx, whence it is drawn forcibly into the cellular substance. Simple puncture is, in these cases, the best remedy.” (p. 362.)] 468. AVhen in transverse wounds of the windpipe tlie bleeding is slanelied, the edges of the wound should be brought together by bending the liead inucli forwaitls towards the chest, in which position it is to be le- tained. This is done less certainly by bandages than by Kohler s cap ; the pitient is at the same time to be sliglitly inclined to one side, so that the secretion may not readily flow into tlie windpipe. If the windjupe be not completely divided, tlie edges of the wound should not be separated far apart, and the position already mentioned is favourable to union, as the stitches excite only irritation and cough which mostly hinder the union. Only when the windpipe is cut tlirough, and the edges of the wound gape widely, should they be drawn together with a broad ligature fastening the external skin merely. According to Fricke (a), severe wounds of the neck should not at once be healed with i the stitch; he prefers waiting for a perfect suppuration, and the production therewith of new granulations, and then first puts in the suture to bring the suppurating edges into j contact. i [Position in the treatment of wounds of the windpipe, at whatever part, is always preferable to stitches, which are really of little service, as from the constant drag upon them in the frequent attempts made to get rid of the mucus, and of the adhesive matter which begins to be secreted a few hours after the injury, they speedily ulcerate and are of no use, but rather hurtful from their additional irritation. The only real benefit ob- tained from them is that of preventing the edges of the skin turning into the wound, which interferes with the union; but even in this attempt they often fail. Keeping the edges of the wound as near together as nossible with strips of adhesive plaster, applied longitudinally and obliquely across the neck, and over these a roller twice or thrice around the neck is all that is either necessary or proper. It must, however, be recollected that even at the very first it is not always proper to close the edges of the wound, and the Surgeon must therefore carefully notice, in dressing the wound, how the patient can breathe when the edges are brought together and covered up. Not unfrequently the breathing cannot be carried on by the mouth, but only by the wound; under which circumstances, if the wound be shut up, diffi- culty of breathing and even suffocation may ensue, unless all the dressings be re- ■I moved and the air allowed to escape by the wound. Its complete closure, therefore, I must be dependent upon the freedom or difficulty of breathing by the mouth; if there be B no difficulty the wound may be carefully closed; but, if there be difficulty, a sufficient space must be left opposite the wound into the windpipe, to permit the free passage of IK the air. Another circumstance may be also noticed as to the unneedfulness of stitches, that is, that these wounds rarely, if ever, unite by adhesion, but almost invariably by granula- tions, even under the most favourable circumstances. But the use of stitches after the establishment of the granulating process, as proposed by Fricke, is quite superfluous. It is certainly proper at first to attempt union by adhesion, and sometirhes the angles of the external wound will effect it; but generally the parts have been so much handled in search of bleeding vessels, as w’ell as irritated by their continual separation by the air and mucus forced through the wound, that the greater part of the surface becomes sloughy. When this happens, it is better to remove all the dressings, except two or thrre strips of plaster for support, and to surround the whole neck with a light bread poultice in a muslin bag, so as to prevent any of the crumbs dropping into the air-tube. —J. r. S.] .f |h. I <; .. r !li 469. In these wounds there always occur severe inflammation of the windpipe, spasmodic symptoms, especially severe cough, which is more violent in injuries of the larynx than of the windpipe (1). If the wounded person have not lost much blood, he must be bled freely from a vein, and nitre 111 emulsion must be given internally. If pain and cough arise, leetling from a vein (even the application of leeches) must be repeated, («) Fiinftcr Bcricht Tiber die VOL. I. Vcrwaltuni; <los allgemcinen Krankenliauses, 1832, p. 232. 2 F