585 BONES OF THE FOOT. '(leg nicay be necessaiy. Fracture of the lieel-bone is the only one which j requires particular mention. I' 711. Fracture of the Heel-hone {Fractura Calcanei, Lat.; Bruch des nkFersetibeines, Germ. ; Fracture du Calcaneum, Fr.) is rare, and either 4 consequent on a fall upon the toes whilst the foot is extended, or of violence ■Awhich affects the heel-bone itself, and is then always accompanied with Sinjiny of the soft parts. The diagnosis of this accident is not always (i distinct, because the aponeurosis covering the bone frequently is not much i torn. The most important sign is the mobility of the bony pieces side- ways. The patient cannot walk nor stand up. In complete tearing of the 4 periosteum the upper broken piece may be affected by the contraction of ij the muscles of the calf, much displacement be effected, and the heel dis- I figured and pulled up from two to five inches. jj Setting this fracture is easy; the foot is to be extended ver}' straightly, { the leg much bent, and the upper end pressed down, if it have been much A bruised. In this position it is to be fixed, and a compress an inch thick, (i an inch broad, and an inch and a half long, is to be applied and fastened ( with a roller an inch broad and double-headed, which, its middle placed { on the compress, is to have its ends passed round and crossed on the sole i of the foot, then upon the instep, and the crossing repeated on the com- 4 press, and the turns in this way continued till the bandage is expended. } On the front of the leg and instep a moderately bent splint is to be 3f attached. The apparatus recommended in tearing of the Achili.es’ tendon 1 {par. 566-571) may be also employed. Perhaps, in most cases, the ap- 5 plication of the bent splint upon the instep, and swathing the leg up to i the knee is the best treatment. In six or seven weeks the fracture is con- st solidated j really about the same manner as in fracture of the knee-cap. ■if [Fracture of the heel-bone is a very rare accident. Lawkence (a) mentions a single * case which occurred under his care; the person jumped off a stage-coach and “ frac- I hired the os calcis, breaking the posterior part of the bone -which was drawn up by the li muscles of the leg. There was an obvious displacement of the bone, an inequality iC: which rendered the nature of the accident perfectly clear. When the knee was bent 4 and the foot extended so as to relax the muscles completely, a crepitus was felt between (d the broken fragments of the bone.” The case did well, “ the knee being kept bent 4 and the foot extended by a splint fastened along the anterior surfacehe had, “ how- l, ever, for a while, something of a halting gait when he walked.” (p. 323.) 1 In the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital there is a specimen of horizontal Bl fracture of the tuberosity of the heel-bone just beneath the insertion of the Achilles’ TO tendon extending to its hinder upper joint surface, where it is continued upwards at A nearly a right angle, the fracture piece does not, however, appear to have been actually ir pulled out of place. I do not know if there be any history connected with it. 81 Lisfranc (6) mentions the case of “ a woman fifty years old, who, in consequence of I a fall on her feet, broke the upper hind part of the heel-bone. When he first saw her a la phlegmonous erysipelas had attacked the leg and foot, no contentive apparatus could be applied, and only after twenty-nine days could bandages for uniting the wound be 'Ofemployed; and three months elapsed before the broken pieces of the bone could be I into contact. At the end of a month the wound of the soft parts had scarred, ilfiand ften the bony fragments appeared to have united by a fibrous substance analogous to that formed in fractures of the knee-cap, and permitted some motion. But after mobility disappeared, probably, says Lisfranc, because this inter- .ct mediate fibrous substance had become ossified.” (p. 109.) It is not stated whether this w w^as a compound or simple fracture, but I presume from the description it must irIq l “ tormer. I have had one case of compound fracture of this bone, in 'finn ’ 11^ cart-wheel passing over the foot; a clean cut wound extended from the 1 Wilkie across the front of the ankle-joint backwards, downwards, and below the ■ ter ankle near to the insertion of the Achilles’ tendon, exposing the tendons, the (o) Lectures in Lancet, 1829-30, vol. ii. (6) Aichives Generates deMed. vol. xvi. 1828.