630 HERPETIC ULCERS. herpes, cured by external remedies, has no such dangerous consequences. The relap*« J of blood herpes commonly arises without any distinguishable cause or disease, especially H after influenza; that of skin herpes after want of food, suspension of perspiration, after ‘1 rheumatic fever, and so on. Blood-herpes depends, 1, on the quantitative mispn),.. ! portion of the blood; a, with excess of albumen, the moist herpes, Eczema c/(rontc«aL *1, in which a group of capillary vessels pour out serum, whereby the cuticle is raised bladders which seem to be grouped; h, with excess of fibrin the pustular herpafl Impetigo, in which serum containing fibrin is poured from the vessels of the cor^^ji into the tissue, whereby single, cellular pustules are produced: in milk-crust there ii ' only modification from the child’s age; c, with excess of salts of the blood, the salt t flux, ISczema impetiginoides pedum, in which salt serum is poured forth from the veuM tj of the skin beneath it, which reddens, destroys it, and only on the edges forms distuxt] «i vesicles; d, with excess of serum, chronic vesicular eruption. Pemphigus, chronic nettle^ « > rash, chronic tetters, in which an efiiision of water in the cells of the corion form the », tubercles or papules of lichen, the tooth-rash. Strophulus: 2, on qualitative mispB>.: portion; a, from itch complicated with Eczema, Prurigo, or Scabies spuria, in which not << groups of vessels, but only single twigs pour out serum and form distinct, scarcdy i' perceptible vesicles beneath the cuticle; h, from the poison of Tinea, complicated with ; Impetigo, Porrigo adultorum mucosa, little pustules on the skin of the head. Skin-Lerpei * depends—1, on disease of the glands which form the skin: a, there is only a diseased i scaly cuticle secreted, without the participation of the dermal tissue in the disease; little herpetic eruptions. Pityriasis, Icthyosis, and Squammositas cutis; b, an unns- -. tural scale of skin may be deposited on the diseased corion; a dry scaly-herpes, Psoriasis; c, a deposit of unnatural scales on the diseased corion, and diseased under ' skin, and cellular tissue in a circular er^tion. Lepra; if the cellular tissue be not t merely inflamed but degenerated, it is Elephantiasis; 2, from disease of the per- ■ spiratory glands. Miliaria chronica: 3, from disease of the sebacious glands,.,4cae; 4, from disease of the roots of the hair. Sycosis; 5, from disease of the subcutaneo^ • cellular tissue; a, this gradually shrinks, thereby affects the glands of the skin, so that the cuticle exfoliates in a diseased state, finally the corion is destroyed, and ' the entire spot sinks in, becomes smooth, glossy, transparent, forms on the edge litfie : vesicles connected with the subcuticular cellular tissue, which ulcerate superiScially; superficial eating herpes, superficial Lupus; b, the subcutaneous cellular tissue suppu- rates, produces tubercles and pustules, which freely burst through the cuticle, suppnn- ■ ting deep-eating herpes. Lupus ulceratus; c, single and, subsequently, confluent tubercles > which raise the corion and cuticle, the Lupus hypertrophicus. 790. The cure of herpetic ulcers first requires the removal of the cause. In stoppage of the bowels, laxative and opening remedies are to be given ; in diminished secretion from the skin and kidneys it must be en- deavoured to reproduce them ; in scrofulous, syphilitic, or any other com- ■ plication, the treatment will direct the contrary ; as the mode of living : changes if it be in causal relation to the herpes, the mode of living must be especially regulated, in most cases less animal and more vegetable food, but in others more strengthening though always simple diet must be prescribed. In general the following medicines are anti-herpetic:—antimony, mercury, sulphur alone, or connected with the other; cethiops antimonialis, cethiops mineralis, calomel sulphur auratum, graphit (a), iodine, cod-liver oil; further, drinks operating on the ^ and kidneys, especially if the secretion of urine be sparing or dropsical accui^atioM have been already produced; decoction of dulcamara, of various kinds of woo^ ola tricolor, lign.juniperi, cortex mezerei, tinctura cantharidis, and the like. If the skin be very much inflamed, flowers of sulphur, with cream of tartar and guiaiciim. 791. The external treatment, which especially requires attention, ^d in all cases in which the herpes depends on internal causes, only auCT previous internal treatment, must be directed by the condition of t e ulcers. If these be inflamed and painful, merely lukewarm vrater an mild salves or fomentations are to be employed. Wlien the inflamioa- (u) Weinhoup, K. a., der Graphit, Oder neuentdecktes Ileilmittel wider die Flechten. Mei»en, 131 8vo.