TREATMENT WITH ELASTIC BOTTLE. 759 •rane of tlie bladder should be drawn with a fine hook into the opening. If at last it uite to the edge, its surface should be touched with lunar caustic, to render it more ough aud hard. . „ There is still to be mentioned Vidal’s proposal of, in complete destruction of the agina aud wall of the bladder, bringing together the labia, having first pared them ; fter which care must be taken, by frequent introduction of the catheter, and, in men- truation, by injection, for clearing the urine and blood from the vagina. To the same urpose is Houner’s proposal (a) of drawing down the uterus into the vagina, and so ■> fasten its front that it may supply the loss of the bladder or its neck. [Among the various plans of treating vesico-vaginal fistula, may be mentioned that f introducing a small Indian rubber bag into the bladder proposed by Dr. Keith of iberdeen (6), in consequenceof the following very remarkable case which came under is care. Case.—J. S., aged thirty years, was admitted into the Aberdeen Infirmary, com- laining of constant pain in the region of the bladder, and constant distillation of riue from the vagina. She was delivered in 1831 by the forceps, and fourteen days fterwards the urine came away through an artificial opening in the vagina. This con- nued for seven or eight years, when she plugged the opening with a pint-bottle cork, ud for a time succeeded, and she enjoyed comparative comfort till the cork slipped into le bladder, aud was followed by the usual symptoms of stone. For a time the urine owed again through the fistulous opening, but as the spmptoms of stone became aggra- ited she regained the power of retaining her water, and this so entirely before the lose of the year that she then passed the whole of her urine by the urethra. The irri- itiou of tlie stone, however, became so intolerable that it was resolved to crush it by le screw lithotrite. The fistulous opening was then large enough to admit a No. 16- atheter, having once been large enough to admit a pint-bottle cork; When the stone nd cork had been crushed, and the particles evacuated the urine again passed freely irough the fistulous opening, which, however, had become sufficiently small to allow a utton-headed cautery at a white heat to be applied to it, so as to touch at once the dge all around. This was repeated in six days, again in sixteen days, and lastly in venty-two days, after which she continued quite cured. “ Several points of interest ttach to this case,” says Keith ; ''first. It afibrds convincing evidence, from the effect reduced on the fistula by the presence of her calculus that were a foreign body of a mooth and uuirritating character, of sufficient weight, introduced into the bladder cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, the body would act as a bullet valve, and not[only keep le patient dry, but actually favour the contraction of the false opening. After seven ears, in the above case, the opening admitted a pint-cork, with so much ease that it ipped through but after a foreign body was lodged in the bladder, nine months sufficed ) reduce the opening to less than one-third of its previous size, and it could only have een during the latter six months of that period that the cork could have acquired ensity and weight enough to operate as a valve-plug. I would suggest a small thin ulb or bag of Indian.rubber filled with mercury. Should incrustation happen in the rogress of the cure, a squeeze with a screw-lithotrite, or percussor, or a long cesophagits- >rceps would throw it off, and at last when the opening had contracted to such a size 3 to admit of its ready cure by the cautery, the thin bag could be easily burst or punc- ired, and then withdrawn by the urethra. Secondly, If asked why I deprived myself f the bullet-valve, while cauterizing in the above case ? I reply, that the constant Taining kept up by the rough stone, arising from the inflamed state of the mucous icmbrane of the bladder, kindled and kept up by its presence, obliged me to remove source of irritation, sufficient to defeat, in more ways than one, any effort of mature dhesion. Thirdly, It is worthy of remark that the application of the actual cautery iside the vagina occasions nothing deserving the name of pain, and this observation I ave had repeatedly corroborated. The heat of the reflected rays may be felt; but I ave never found patients say that they really felt pain. Fourthly, It is advised by high uthority to allow long intervals between each application of the cautery, that time may e afforded for the eonsequent contraction of the parts : the advice is judicious ; but it pplies chiefly to cases where the orifice is large, aud where there is much to accom- lish in the way of closing in. My bullet-valve will, in future, aid the process much 1 such cases; but I beg to remark that where we have a fistulous opening of the size of female eatheter, for instance, and where, as in the preceding and succeeding cases, we (a) American Journal, 1839. No. 7. (6) UemMks on the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv. p. 12; also in tstula; in London and Edinburgh Monthly Hhaitiiwaite’s lletrospect, vol. ix. p. 164.