530 FRACTURE OF THE TONGUE-BONE—OF THE CARTILAGES ’“Stead of the usual apparatus, a silver thread around the front teeth, which, without inconveniencing the patient, may be continued for three weeks till the i divided parts are perfectly united. IV—OF FRACTURE OF THE TONGUE-BONE. {Fractura Ossis hyoldei, Lat.; Bruch des Zungenbeines, Germ.; Fracture de V Ot t hyoid, Fr.) Marcinovsky and Diefenbach ; in Medic. Vereinszeitung fiir Preussen, 1833.. Nos. 3 and 15. Laeesque; in Journal Hebdom., vol x. p. 386, 1833. Aubekge; in Revue Me'dicale, July, 1835. 608. Fracture of the Tongue-hone is very rare, but always consequent t on direct external violence, and almost always occurs in the horns of the ? bone. In consequence of the injury itself and the displacement of the» broken ends there is always impossibility of swallowing and speaking, or r great difficulty and pain in so doing, and in depressing and protruding the e tongue, symptoms of suffocation, effusion of blood, and swelling of the e region of the tongue, grating and mobility of one or both horns when i touched, inflammation of the throat and pharynx. The broken bone may r be displaced towards the throat and project so that it can be felt with the el finger (Lalesque, Auberge.) [The only examples of fracture of this bone of which I am aware are those of personci executed by hanging, in which fracture is almost invariably found.—J. F. S.] 609. If there be not any displacement of the end of the fracture towardsk the throat, it must be pressed into its proper place by introducing the ( finger, whilst the other hand fixes the tongue-bone externally; a strict 1 antiphlogistic treatment, blood-letting, leeches, cold applications, nitrei in some mucilaginous vehicle, and extract of hyoscyamus or laurel water, r must be employed to prevent or get rid of the inflammatory symptoms.s The patient must swallow only fluids, and in small quantity. , If swallow- ing be impossible, or the ends of the fracture be thereby again displaced,! an cesophagus-t\ihe must be introduced, or the patient nourished withlj clysters. V.—OF FRACTURE OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. (Fractura Laryngis, Lat.; Bruch der Knorpel des Kehlkopfes, Germ.; Fracture d*y Cartilage du Larynx, Fr.) 610. The cartilages of the larynx may be broken variously by the im- t mediate operation of severe violence; and speedy death may result froni« the displacement of the ends of the fracture by suffi>cation, or very violent! symptoms may ensue, a^ very difficult, snoring, noisy breathing, with the I neck and head bent back, cough, with bloody foam from the mouth, hoarset inarticulate tone of voice, severe pain in the larynx, impossibility oIe swallowing, symptoms of choking, yellowish-white, livid, puffy face, pro- truding eyes, strong pulsation of the carotid arteries, effusion of blood,-; and emphysema in the neck, and tetanic symptoms. The mobility andr displacement of the ends of the broken bone may be felt on externa* examination. 611. If it be not possible by careful attempts to replace the ends of the fracture in their proper position, the coverings of the larynx should be cu»' through at the mesial line of the neck in the whole length of the larynxi and after stanching the bleeding, or if the danger be pressing, at the sarm