PUERPEEAL ABSCESS. 47 troubled him during his illness, and, another having died on 22nd December, he again became alarmed, and sunk on the following morning without any other especial cause. The examination of the body on the third day after death presented the following remarkable and unexpected appearances, as he had never made any complaint, nor had the attendants more than myself noticed any circumstance which could lead to the expectation of the results which occurred. The body generally was thin, but not much emaciated. The slough on the rump had exposed a large portion of the sacrum. Between the crest of the right ilium and the great trochanter, tlie soft parts were prominent and fluctuating. The heart and lungs were perfectly healthy. All the abdominal viscera were healthy except the liver, which was much enlarged, and extremely pallid, and had degenerated into fat to an extreme degree. The right in. iliacus was raised from the concavity of the ilium; prominent, tense, I fluctuating when touched, and the fluctuation communicated to the external prominence ■ between the iliac crest and trochanter. When the muscle was cut into, a large quantity of dirty stinking pus was found filling the iliac pit internally, and commu- nicating through the ischiatic notch, of which the edge had become carious and rough, ■ with a quantity of similar pus extravasated among the gluteal and all the muscles in . the neighbourhood of the back of the hip-joint. All the muscles were separated from I each o^er, and had assumed a greenish appearance. In front of the joint there was I only a small collection of pus, and the muscles were seemingly healthy. The hip- : joint contained a small quantity of dirty purulent fluid; there were slight traees gene- 1 rally of synovial inflammation, specially at the notch, and where the acetabulum was ( devoid of cartilage. The right ilium was rough and carious on both external and internal surface, and the right sacro-iliac symphysis so extensively destroyed that slight force separated the bones, the surfaces of which were carious. I The left knee-joint: nearly all the articular surfaces deprived of their cartilage, small isolated patches alone remaining, and the exposed surface of the bone being everywhere ! rough and carious. The crucial ligaments were only partially destroyed. i Neither of the vertebral bodies were affected with disease.—J. F. S. I My friend Dr. Rigby (a), in his account of contagious or adynamic puerperal fever, i: speaks of a peculiar kind of abscess following attacks of that disease, which we saw to- il gether in several instances at the General Lying-in Hospital. “Where,” says he, “the ;i constitution has borne the brunt of the attack without immediate collapse, and the local ii mischief been controlled by appropriate means, we find that fresh efforts are made to rid II the circulation of the morbid matter with which it is infected. The patient is suddenly 5 seized with severe pain, with heat, redness, and swelling of one of the large joints, pre- 5 senting all the appearance of arthritic or rheumatic inflammation, and also of certain j muscles especially, the supinatores of the arm, the glutaei and gastroenemic. The painful t spot soon becomes hard, it is intensely tender, and in two or three days the feeling of : fluctuation indicates the formation of an abscess, from which a large quantity of greenish I coloured pus mixed with blood and serum, is discharged. The cellular tissue beneath tthe skin and between the muscles is equally affected, and, if examined when the abscess iis just beginning to form, will be found of a dirty brown colour, softened, infiltrated. Band here and there condensed with lymph or pus, precisely as in cases of gangrenous ery- -sipelas: the muscular tissue has entirely lost its red colour, and closely resembles the ;appearance of boiled meat, its structure so softened as to tear easily under the fingers, iand interspersed with deposits of immature lymph and purulent fluid, the commence- I'ment of what would have been an abscess. Like gangrenous ei7sipelas, the extent of ;the abscess does not seem to be limited by a surrounding wall of healthy lymph, as seen in a common phlegmon, but, if deep beneath the surface, it continues to spread in all di- rections, until nearly the whole limb appears to be implicated in one immense abscess: hence, in those patients who have recovered under these attacks, the limb has frequently ibeen rendered useless, the muscles being atrophied and coherent.” (p. 291.) The fol- flowing observation of the same writer in reference to the contagious nature of these •ibscesses is extremely important. “ That the discharges from a patient under puer- weral fever are in the highest degree contagious, we have abundant evidence in the his- nory of lying-in hospitals. The puerperal abscesses are also contagious, and may be com- ununicated to healthy lying-in women, by washing with the same sponge ; this fact has Nieen repeatedly proved at the Vienna hospital; but they are equally communicable to I vomp not pregnant: on more than one occasion the women engaged in washing the soiled i)ed linen of the General Lying-in Ho.spital,have been attacked with abscesses in the fingers ->r hands, attended with rapidly spreading inflammation of the cellular tissue.” (p. 292.)] (fl) A System of Midwifery, Lond., 1844, forming part of Tweedie's Library of Medicine.