365 DISSECTION. sitnated at the posterior part of the mouth, generally exhibit traces of luflamnmtion. They appear in the majority of cases of ferocious madness, and they are never deficient after dumb madness. They are usually most intense either towards the palatiue arch or the larynx. Sometimes an inflammatory character is diflfused through its whole extent, but occasionally it is more or less intense towards one or both of the terimnations of the fauces, while the intermediate portion retains nearly its healthy hue. There is one circumstance of not unfrequent occurrence, which will at once decide the case the presence of indigestible matter, probably small in quantity, in the back part of the mouth. This speaks volumes as to the depraved appetite of the patient, and the loss of power in the muscles of the pharynx. Little will depend on the tonsils of the throat.^ They occasionally enlarge to more than double their usual size ; but this is more in quiet than in ferocious madness. The insatiable thirst of the rabid dog is perhaps connected with this condition of them. The epiglottis should be very carefully observed. It is more or less injected in every case of rabies. Numerous vessels increase in size and multiply round its edge, and there is considerable injection and thickening. Inflammation of the edges of the glottis, and particularly of the membrane which covers its margin, is often seen, and accounts for the harsh guttural breathing which frequently accompanies dumb madness. The inflammatory blush of the larynx, though often existing in a very slight degree, deserves considerable attention. The appearances in the trachea are very uncertain. There is occasionally the greatest intensity of inflammation through the whole of it; at other times there is not the slightest appearance of it. There is the same uncertainty with regard to the bronchial tubes and the lungs; but there is no characteristic symptom or lesion in the lungs. Great stress has been laid on the appear- ance of the heart; but, generally speaking, in nine cases out of ten, the heart of the rabid dog will exhibit no other symptoms of disease than an increased yet variable deepness of colonr in the lining membrane of the ventricles. No dependence can be placed on any of the appearances of the oesophagus ; and, when they are at the worst, the inflam- mation occupies only a portion of that tube. With regard to the interior of the stomach, if the dog has been dead only a few hours the true inflammatory blush will remain. If four-and-twenty hours have elapsed, the bright red colour will have changed to a darker red, or a violet or a brownish hue. In a few hours after this, a process of corrosion will generally commence, and the mucous membrane will be softened and rendered thinner, and, to a certain extent, eaten through. The examiner, however, must not attribute that to disease which is the natural process of the cessation of life. Much attention should be paid to the appearance of the stomach and its contents. If it contains a strange mingled mass of hair, and hay, and straw, and horse-dung, and earth, or portions of the bed on which the dog had lain, we should seldom err if we affirmed that he died rabid; for it is only under the influence of the depraved appetite of rabies that such substances are devoured. It is not the presence of every kind of extraneous substance that will be satisfactory: pieces of coal, or wood, or even the filthiest matter, will not justify us in pronouncing the animal to be rabid; it is that peculiarly mingled mass of straw, and hair, and filth of various kinds, that mnst indicate the existence of rabies. When there are no solid indigesta, but a fluid composed principally of vitiated bile or extravasated blood, there will be a strong indication of the presence of rabies. When, also, there are in the duodenum and jejuunm small portions of indigesta, the detection of the least quantity will be decisive. The remainder has been ejected by vomit; and inquiry should be made of the nature of the matter that has been discharged. The inflammation of rabies is of a peculiar character in the stomach. It is generally confined to the summits of the folds of the stomach, or it is most intense there. On the summits of the rugm there are effusions of bloody matter, or spots of ecchymosis, presenting an appearance almost like crushed black currants. There may be only a few of them ; but they are indications of the evil that has been effected. From appearances that present themselves in the intestines, the bladder, the blood-vessels, or the brain, no conclusion can be drawn • are simply indications of inflammation.” (p. 141-43.) ’ The following observation of Youatt’s cannot be too constantly incnlcated in all persons fond of dogs, nor too carefully remembered by practitioners in making their iinquiriM, and coming to conclusions in cases where there is the slightest suspicion-of hydrophobia. “ In the early stages of rabies," says he, “ the attachment of the dog 'Wwarcls his owner seems to be rapidly increased, and the expression of that feeling itpt without ceasing, licking the hands or face, or any part he caii to indulire Z occasionally apt to permit the dog, when in health, ' twtla ®i dangerous habit with regard to them. The virus gene- s?rfec^"fnd occasionally deposited on a wounded or abraded uriace, and in process of time produces a similar disease in the person that has been