TREATMENT BY STITCHING. 755 .liould be as advantageous as possible. In transverse fistula it is best to ,)ierce the liinder (upper) lip of the wound first, but in longitudinal fistula .hat next the left side of the ]Ms. The left forefinger then presses he corresponding lip of the wound against the point of the needle, till it wetty well holds it. Tlie other needles are to be introduced in a similar vay, and the disiance between the several needles should be no more hail two and at farthest three lines asunder. The tying of the threads s to be effected with the two forefingers, but if they cannot reach, with he forceps. In the application of the interrupted suture, the curved needle, troperly fastened in the needle-holder, and supported by the left fore- ino^r is to be thrust through both lips of the wound at proper points ; for vluch purpose, frequently the edges of the wound must be fixed with a harp hook, as otherwise they easily give way. As soon as the needle is ntroduced through both lips up to its eye, an assistant frees it by turning •ack the screw of the needle-holder ; the eye and the thread are then to le oiletl, tiie holder withdrawn, and the point of the needle seized with the orceps, and about eight inches length of thread introduced. Both ends of he thread may be advantageously used for arranging the edges of the wound diilst applying the other stitches. If several threads have to be intro- uced, it is convenient that they should be of different colour, so that they jay be more easily arranged. The needle threads must be first tied and rawn together with the fingers, or if deep, with the forceps. If the first ie loosen before the second is drawn together, it must be kept tight with orceps by an assistant. The threads must be cut off an inch from the not. In introducing the needle it should be remembered, that the edges of he wound are to be taken hold of so far from the needle, that they may e penetrated without ever piercing the mucous membrane of the bladder. 5y this treatment the two wounded surfaces are applied to the height of hree or four lines, and their free edges at the same time turned inwards Dwards the bladder, permit the urine to come in contact with the seam nly in the most untoward cases. In this way, according to Wutzeb, the ery difficult separation of the bladder from the wall of the vagina^ wliich ere and there, from the great thinness of the tissue, must be quite imprac- cable, is superfluous. Diefpenbach draws with curved needles seven ireads from the hinder to the front end of the fistula when drawn down, f which only one holds the edges of the vagina and the other, those f the bladder. The threads which have been passed are to be propei-ly ed with the fingers, their ends brought out and fastened in the mons ^eneris with sticking-plaster. The twisted suture is proposed by Naegele to be made with curved needles; Roux pploys the common hare-lip needles; Schbeger uses the glover’s needles and suture. URMANN (a) first introduces on the inner side of the fistula some cross threads, then arifies, and brings it together by tying the threads. Kilian so introduces the needle iar the front angle, three lines from the edge, that its convex surface is directed wards the operator, pushes it backwards in the direction of the length of the fistula, 1(1 a^in passes it out at the same place, draws it out with the forceps, and brings ick the threads to this side. In this way the threads are introduced on the other side, which the first thread may be employed for drawing down the fistula. The several iposite corresponding threads may then be tied. I "f h® conveyance of the needle with the fingers, or, where necessary, with a needle- iKler, IS preferable to the long stemmed trocar-like needle, from the eye of which the ;ature is drawn out with a pair of forceps. (Naegele, Lallemand, Deuber, and Physiologic Pathologiques, vol. v. pt. ii. p. 172. Fbokiep’s 3 c 2