200 TREATMENT OF IN-GROWING NAIL. more or less severely, with lunar caustic until the nail contracts completely, and draws out of the flesh. He then lays pads of charpie under the edge of the nail, till by its growth it stretches over the bulbous part of the toe. Zeis (a) especially recommends the introduction of charpie under the edge of the nail, and the use of foot-baths. [The treatment recommended by Meigs (/») is very simple:—“ Let a small pledget of lint, just large enough to cover all the granulations, and of suflScient thickness to act as a compress, be neatly adjusted, over which a roller of linen, three-quarters of an inch wide and eight or ten inches long, is to be applied, having one end previously spread with adhesive plaster. By this method we are enabled, with great ease, to make it not only act on the compress, which will destroy the granulations very rapidly, but, by con- fining the toe and nail, to prevent even the small degi'ee of sliding motion or friction of the latter over the wounded part, thus doing away one principal cause of the disease. By pursuing this treatment, the patient will generally recover, even while walking about.” (p. 266.) Astley Cooper says, that “ the application of a blister will bring away the cuticle, and often the nail along with it.” (p. 193.) I have tried this plan several times, but have rarely succeeded in inducing the separation of the nail.—J. F. S.] 194. It is not pos.sible, however, in many cases to render assistance by this treatment, partly because the nail has gone in too deeply, and is too much covered with fungous growths, partly because it is too painful. Here the treatment proposed by Dupuytren is applicable. When the inflam- mation of the toe is diminished by poulticing, rest, and so on, a pair of straight sharp scissors, of which one branch is very pointed, must be thrust by a sudden motion from before backwards, from the front edge to the middle of the root of the nail, to at least three lines behind its hinder edge, thus dividing the nail into two halves. The diseased halves are then to be taken hold of and twisted round, all connexion destroyed, and the nail itself removed; the same must be done with the other half, if neces- sary. If the fungous excrescences are high, they must be destroyed with caustic, by which the skin beneath the nail dries, the sore surface disap- pears, and in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours is cicatrized. In olu persons the nail is generally not replaced; in young persons it sometimes reappears; a recurrence of the disease is, however, rarely to be feared. [According to Scoutteten (c), if it is determined to destroy the matrix of the nail, the point of a straight bistoury should be placed upon the middle of the diseased phalanx, about four lines from the edge of the nail, and the skin divided down to the nail. The cut should not penetrate deeper than the matrix, as this only is to be exposed. The edges of the wound are then to be raised from the nail and kept asunder by the introduction of charpie. On the day following the little wound must be filled with a caustic paste, (five parts of caustic potash, and six of quicklime, moistened with alcohol immediately before use,) and the dry phalanx covered with sticking plaster, the excrescences must be de- stroyed by the gradual application of the caustic; and, after the falling off of the slough, until the healing is complete, which takes place usually in twenty-four days, there is nothing to do except merely to cut away the exposed edges of the nail with scissors. _ The following are Fare’s and Faye’s treatment. The former consists in thrusting in a straight bistoury at the base of the soft parts which cover the nail, and dividing this part from before backwards to the edge of the nail, then the bistoury is to be turned to the other side, and the flap perfectly removed. Cauterization is to follow. In Faye’s method a V'Shaped piece of the nail (first scraped thin) must be removed out of the front edge, and through the two edges a metal wire drawn and twisted together, by which the edges of the cut are approximated, and the in-growing edge of the nail raised up. Of the various modes of treatment which have been recommended for the cure of the in-growing nail, compare Michaelis (tf), Sachs (e), Zeis (/). Astley Cooper first proposed the operation of, “ with a pair of scissors, slitting up the (rt) Cursory Kemarks on laverted Toe-Nail; in Philadelphia Journal of the Med. and Phys. Sciences, vol. ii. 18-1 • (b) In Danzec, Dssai sur I’Ongle Incariie ; suivi de la description (I’un nouveau Precede Operatoire. Strasbourg, 18JG. (c) Remaraues sur le Cours d’Opcrations de Chlrurgie de M. Dioyis. 8vo. 1R16. (d) In Journal von Gkaefk und voN Waltheb, vol. xiv. p. 2. 4. e) Ibiu, Vol. xxii, p. 108. J") Above cited.