576 FRACTURES OP THE the middle of the thigh, is best etfected by tlie machines of Boykr and Hagedorn ; but in fractures of tlie lower and upper tliird, the machine of Sadter or the double inclined plane are especially serviceable on account of tlie advantages connected with the half-bent posture. If the fracture be complicated with wound, one or other position may be advantageous as may best suit the care of the wound. 687. In children, after properly setting the fracture, it is usual to > swathe the whole limb up to the hip in a circular bandage, several turns . being made round the seat of fracture. Pasteboard splints are then to be applied on the outer, inner, fore and back part of the limb from the groin i to the foot, swathed in a roller, and the whole wrapped in a cloth to pro- - tect the apparatus against displacement. The application of the common i contentive bandage is, however, more suitable, because it can be more easily renewed and without changing the position of the limb. 688. If much inflammation and swelling have set in, they must be treated according to the rules laid down, (^par. 587.) 689. The management of the patient during the cure of the fracture is • directed by the general rules. Stiffness of the joint after the cure, espe- - cially if the fracture be near the knee-joint, is often of long continuance, , but gradually subsides with motion and with volatile rubbings-in. 690. In rare cases, the outer or inner condyle of the thigh-bone may be - broken obliquely, or it may be separated by a vertical cleft which descends » from a fracture. This is distinguished by the great swelling of the knee- - joint, by the deformity, and by the crepitation observed in the movements *■ of the condyles. It is difficult in these cases to prevent deformity, and great t interference with the motions of the joint. The limb is to be put straight t on a pillow and the inflammation sought to be repressed with leeches and i cold applications. This done, a simple contentive bandage is to be applied. If in an oblique fracture with separation of the condyles, the upper end of f the fracture be driven out through the coverings, amputation of the thigh is > indicated. XVI.-OF FRACTURE OF THE KNEE-CAP. (^Fractura Patella, Lat.; Bruch der Knieschiebe, Germ.; Fracture de la Rotule, Fr.) Meibom, Dissert, de patella ejusque Isesionibus. Francf., 1697. Bucking’s Abhandlung von Kniescheibenbruche nebst der Beschreibung einer neuen Maschine. Stendal, 1789. Sheldon, On Fracture of the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1789. Camper, P., De fracturS, patellae et olechrani. Cum fig. Haag. 1790. 4to. Desault, above cited, vol. i. Boyer, above cited, vol. iii. p. 291. Cooper, A., above cited, p. 200. Alcock, Observations on the Fracture of the Patella and Olechranon. London, 1823. Ortelli, Dissert, de fractura patellae. Berol., 1827. Fest, Dissert, de fracturS, patellae. Berol., 1827. Lachmund, Inaug. Abhandl. fiber den Bruch der Kuiescheibe und die Zerreissung des Knieschiebenbandes. Wfirzb., 1838. Dupoytuen ; in Leqons Orales de Clinique Chirnrgicale, vol. ii. p. 297.