[ 726 ] D.—OF RECTAL FISTULA. ’ (Fistula Ani, Lat.; Mastdarnifistel, Germ.; Fiatule a VAnus, Fr.)] * 4 Pott, Treatise on Fistula in Ano; in his Works by Earle, vol. Desault, CEuvres Chirurgicales, vol. iii. p. 380. Detzmann, Dissert, de fistula ani. Jeiise, 1812. 4to.; with plates. Reisinger, F., Darstellung eines Verfahrens, die Mastdarmfistel zu unterbindm 5 I Augsburg, 1816. 8vo. ‘ ' Kothe, Darstellung und WUrdijung der Kurmethoden der Afterfisteln ; in Rust’s i t Magazin, vol. i. pt. ii. p. 259, ScHREOER, Ueber die Unterbindung der Mastdarmfisteln ; in his chirurgische Ver- r- ’ suchen. Nurnberg, 1818. vol. ii. pt. i. Copeland, Thomas, Observations on the principal Diseases of the Rectum and Amu. i, t London, 1814. 8vo. Bell, Charles, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra, Vesica Urinaria, Pro*-1>. i tate, and Rectum. Third Edition; with Notes by Shaw. London, 1822. 8vo. Brodie, Sir Benjamin, Lectures on Diseases of the Rectum; in Medical Gazette, e, ' vol. xviii. 1836. 923. Under the term Rectal Fistula is comprehended every fistulous a ; suppurating passage in the neighbourhood of the rectum, in which either % | merely the tissue surrounding the outer walls of that gut is destroyed. I. » or the fistulous passage communicates with the cavity of the rectum « i Rectal fistulas are therefore distinguished into the perfect, (F. ani com- >- « pletce,) and imperfect, (F. ani incompletce,^ according as they have an ex-i ternal and internal opening communicating with the cavity of the rectum; ; i or they have an internal or external opening alone, imperfect internal h i (external blind) and imperfect external (internal blind) rectal fstulat.». I They also present numerous other differences; the fistulous canal rnaysii extend far up into tlie cavity, may be accompanied with many external'il f openings, may extend far beneath the external skin, and be accompanied d 1 with callosities and hardening, with foreign bodies, with disease of the « | neighbouring parts, the bladder, urethra, vagina, and so on, or even with I ; caries of the bones of the pelvis. 924. The causes of rectal fistulas, are injuries of the internal coat of the * ; rectum by foreign bodies which pass with the stools, producing inflam- ^ ( mation and, suppuration, suppurating bunches of haemorrhoids, by which i ) the internal-anembrane of the rectum is destroyed. These fistulas generally x t form slowly; the patient has for a long time itching at the anus, and a % j knobby swelling forms about it, which often merely empties itself by a j j small opening, or the fistula has little disposition to break externally, but n . rather spreads upwards, and may be connected above by a second opening x j with the rectum (a) ; or an abscess may form about the anus from * } hardening, from injury, from burrowing of pus from another part, which 1 | deprives the exterior wall of the rectum more or less completely of its e cellular tissue. These abscesses are often critical, and the patient is » I thereby freed from other complaints, from affections of the chest and so * i on; often they are merely consequent on gorging of the hsemorrhoidal i i vessels, from diseases of the breast and liver. 925. The condition of the fistula is in part shown by the nature of its origin, the faecal or merely purulent discharge, and the passage of intes- • i tinal gas from it, especially after examination with the probe. 926. According to the observations of S.4.b.4Tier, Larkey (b), an® * ) (a)SoiiB*OEB, Annalen des ehirurgisclien Clini- (i) Mcmolres de Chirurgie Militaire, vol. * I cam’s Buf der Universitat zu Erlangen, 1817, p. 92. p. 415.