497 FRACTURES OF BONES. Fractures are also divided ndo coviplete incomplete; Boyer (a) rejects this dis- tinction as groundless, but he here manifestly goes too far. Medino (6) has, in expe- riments on dogs, frequently found Uie shin-bone broken merely half through, aHhough he had produced tlie fracture with considerable force, as was proved both by the loud crack and by the mobility at the place of fracture. I have also not unfrequently observed in young children, where, after violence, a fracture was found, and pain, swelling, and I mobility indicated its place, yet that there was not the least trace of projection of the ends of the fracture, nor crepitation to be perceived. The not uncommon curvature ot such young bones, after external violence, also proves the comparatively greater yielding of the tender bones to external pressure, so that the bony fibres which suffer the greatest extension break, whilst the others merely bend, like the cracking of fresh willow. Boyer’s assertion is tlierefore to be restricted to the bones of adults.^ 575. Fractures of bones, like all solutions of continuity, may be pro- duced under any circumstances, if only sufficient violence be used ; they, however, occur more readily according to the different position and func- tion of the bones, the age of the person, and the diseased changes of the bones. Superficial break more frequently than deep-seated bones; so also do those which on account of their functions are more exposed to the operation of external injuries. In advanced age the nutritious process in bones is altered, and the deposit of phosphate of lime is greater; they therefore lose their elasticity, and become more brittle, and break more easily. The greater frangibility of bone in age and during other diseased states, depends on its diminished cohesion from the excess of absorption over deposition, by which the resistance of the structure is lessened. The same changes of structure of bone may be produced by diseases whicli ipecially affect the bony system, for instance, syphilis, gout, rickets, crofiila, scurvy, and cancer. External violence causes the separation of the bone not always at that part on which it operates, but frequently at a greater or less distance rom it, by propagation of the shock, or indirectly by the counter-blow, n tlie former case, severe bruising of the soft parts always accompanies he fracture. The external injury often produces only a violent contrac- tion of the muscles, which causes the fracture. This is possible even in ubular bones; hence violent cramps and convulsions also may cause frac- ure of bones. In a very great degree of brittleness ov fragility of bone (c), he external violence often need be but very slight. Various opinions have been advanced in regard to the changes which the substance of me undergoes in advanced age. According to Bichat (d), the quantity of lime in- xeases; others, however, state that the bone becomes more porous- According to [VIercier’s numerous investigations (e), the compact tissue in the middle of the tubular ixmes of old persons is tougher and closer than in adults, it rings when struck, is hard nd difficult to splinter. The calibre of the medullary cavity is indeed larger, but only it the expense of the internal spongy layers, which.almost entirely disappear; but near he ends of tubular bones an increased absorption is observed, by which their substance s thinned. Here the spaces in the spongy tissue are larger in proportion as they are near he medullary canal, and which seems to increase to the very end of the bone. This rapomnt difference explains why the porosity of the ends of tubular bones in old persons ontributes more to their fragility than the want of elasticity in their bodies, which is itherwise balanced by their greater toughness. Hence in old people fractures at the ends f tubular bones, and especially at the upper part of the thigh-bone, are very common, mt equally rare in the middle of tubular bones, and perhaps even more rare than in iiiddle-age persons.—Pigne If'). in Zeit- (n) Above cited, p. 9. (i>) Ueber Knock-Wiedererzeugung ; ... i:hrift fur Natur und Heilkunde, Dresden, lb24, [Ol.iii. part ill. p. 305. (c) Nicod, Dissert. surlaFragilite des Os, et stir I contraction musculaire cunsiderce comme cause e fracture. Paris. VOL. I, Rostan, in Nouveau Journal de Medecine, etc. vol. i. p. 138. Humpelt, Ueberden Ursprung der sogenannten freiwilligen Knochenbiuche: in Rust’s Maeazin. vol. xlii. pt. 3. S Anatomic Generate, vol. iii. p. 80. Gazette Medicale, vol. iii. p. 561. 1835. (J) In the Rrencli translation of Chelius’s Handbook. 2k