795 AND OF THE THIGH-BONE. w (a) Preuss. Vcreins Zeitung, 1836. No. 23. (6) Above cited, p. 39. s ■M shape, slips out more easily than it can he got back again. Vidai. and Malgaigne conclude from their observations on the dead body, that the hindrance depends on the locking-in of the metacarpal head between the short muscles of the thumb. Pailloux, Lawuie, Blechy, and Roser, by their experiments, found the interposition theory con- firaied, and the latter could produce the interposition, as often as he pleased, if only the front of the capsule were torn or cut across, and at the same time a little lengthways, lu consequence of these various opinions, difi'erent proposals have been made to effect the reduction. According to Hey, the bones may be brought into place by pressure without extension ; according to Charles Bell, bending the joint with proper pressure. Fixcke applies his two forefingers on the back of the metacarpal bone, presses with it 1 against the thumb, whilst his two thumbs are firmly placed against the under surface of the metacarpal bone, and thus easily effect its replacement. Charles Bell’s pro- posal of subcutaneous division of the lateral ligaments with a cataract-needle has been practised by Liston and Reinhardt (a). Roser, from his experiments on the dead body, determines that the reduction can only be effected, when the bone is put into the position out of which it was thrown, and also if the dislocated phalanx be first put in hyper-extension, (dorsal flexion,) and from this be moderately depressed upon the meta- carpal head. From all this it appears that the joint must be neither straightened nor bent too much, the direction of the thumb must always be such, that its long axis be directed perpen- i dicular to the rounded surface or the metacarpal head. If this direction be given to the bone, the tilting in and interposition, and with them the obstacle, disappear. I have, in six cases of dislocation of the thumb from the metacarpal bone, been only once unable to effect the replacement perfectly, in which the dislocation had already existed some days. My practice in this reduction is, to apply a wetted bandage around the thumb, thee nds of which are rolled round my own hand, and whilst with this I pull directly upwards, the left hand is placed on the metacarpus and pressed down, whereupon I bring the thumb into the straight position. I must however confess, that all these cases I had considered as dislocations of the thumb downwards. X.—OF DISLOCATION OF THE THIGH-BONE. (^Luxatio Femoris, Lat.; Verrenkung des Oberschenkels, Germ.; Luxation de la Cuisse, Fr.) Boyer, above cited, vol. iv. p. 278. A. Cooper, above cited, p. 37. Travers, B., in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xx. p. 112. 1066. Dislocations of the thigh may occur in four directions:—1, back- wards and upwards upon the back of the hip-bone ; 2, imoards and down- wards into the oval hole ; 3, backwards and downwards into the ischiatic notch; 4, upwards and forwards on the horizontal branch of the share- bone. The former of these is most frequent, the fourth more rare than the second, and the third the most rare, and even denied by many writers. The capsule, as well as the round ligament, is torn in every one of tliese dislocations, though in that inwards and downwards it may remain entire. _ Astley Cooper (i) gives other proportions in reference to frequency of the several dislocations of the thigh-bone; he says that the dislocation backwards and upwards is the most frequent, next that into the ischiatic notch, then that on the oval hole, whilst the dislocation on the share-bone is most rare. Besides these four kinds of dislocation of the thigh-bone, some assume a fifth, viz., directly downwards, just as others consider the above four kinds only secondary, in which the head of the bone, if there be no frac- ture of the socket, always leaves the socket at its lower edge, and is first situated between this part and the tuberosity of the haunch-bone, though only for a short time. [Although repeated dislocation of the thigh-bone in the same jierson is not very common, yet a few yeai-s ago there was a woman in St. Thomas’s Hospital, under Tyrrell’s care, whose hip was dislocated the ninth time. Unfortunately I do not recollect the kind of dislocation.—J. F. S.]