VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 758 If turned back flap was so folded, that its mucous surface touched itself, and ij i tlirough its double edge the end of tlie thread hanging out of the was passed spirally witli a needle twice, and so a plug of flesh formed with , a raw surface. By drawing the end of tlie tliread hanging from the urethra \ • tlie fleshy plug was pulled between the fistulous edges and properly pressedSit ‘ up with the finger. An assistant continued to draw the urethral end of.(' the loop, whilst the operator, after refreshing, drew a thread forwards wliich J had been introduced into the upper edge of the fistula, for the purposewi of bringing it into contact with the flap of flesh. An elastic catheter-fi was then introduced into the bladder, the ends of the thread fastened to a T bandage, (or with sticking plaster on the thigh,) and the wound covereddr with agaric. The patient was benefited, but not cured. In another case, in which the transplantation was made from the labium, hair subae^^i' quently grew upon it, which excited inflation of the mucous membrane of the vayina ’ and obstnicted coitus. ’ ^ Subsequently Jobert made the flap from the fold between the thigh and buttock-.; - after ten or eleven days the patient could pass her wafer without the catheter, in the usual manner. After four or five weeks the flap was cut through, an inch from it* base, whereupon it became black, which however it ceased to be, after throwing off a i small slough. After two months the successful result is no longer to be doubted. For « similar experiments on transplantation see Wdtzer, above cited. 981. Dieffenbach endeavoured to close large fistulas by drawing thei< , mucous membrane togetlier. Without introducing a speculum, and after*j - having returned the wall of the bladder through the fistula, and having-j introduced a sponge into the cleft, to prevent its reprotrusion, he seized one^i edge of the opening with the hook-forceps, drew it towards him, and sup-4 porting it with another hook, cut off' a narrow slip from the edge, and alw«< .-j cut off the edge of the bladder, some lines distant from the edge of then > vagina. He then, by means of his own palate-needles, carried two leadent - threads through the edges of the vagina, without including the bladder,r and drew them together till there was considerable tension, upon which he« : thrust the knife in upon the posterior and lateral part of the vagina, and«| drew it down in a straight line to the nympha, and then treated the opjx)- same way, so that the breadth of tlie thus isolated part of I- site side in the the vagina was about a fourth of its whole M'idth. In making this cutij the finger was introduced into the rectum to prevent injuring it, and to ^ make the cut sufficiently long and deep. The leaden thread being then^ drawn tighter till great tension was again produced; the edge was drawn ^ forward with a hook, or with hook-forceps, and the cellular tissue con-ij necting the vagina to the pelvis cut through with scissors or a knife, firsts > on one and then on the other side, but without coming too near to the^ bladder. By continuously drawing the leaden threads, the edges were-' loosely brought together, so that no further tearing apart was to be fearedj! and the edges of the wound were united with the interrupted suture, niadeii with a curved needle, and when the hindmost stitch could not be niadft with the hand alone, it was made witli a needle-holder. When the whole) cleft was closed the leaden threads were drawn close together, and cut off so that only two turns remained. A catheter with large openings on the sides was introduced, and the after-treatment conducted as above described. In moderately large fistulas, when a small neighbouring fold of the bladder liesia^ the opening, and has already become adherent, Dieffenbach recommends that tJiei| edges should be inflamed, by frequently touching with tinci. lyttoc, and tliat the menr* i. ‘ 11