COLD—STIMULANTS. 113 the choice of remedies for burns and scalds. Whilst some prefer moist applications, cold or warm, either as washes or liniments and ointments, others advocate the use of dry snbstauees, as cotton or flour and the like. I shall first mention some of the more prevalent plans of treatment, and afterwards describe my own ordinary practice, without, however, claiming for it any great degree of originality. Jajies Earle was the principal supporter of cold moist applications in form of very cold water or even ice, pounded and applied on clothes or in a bladder. Hunter ob- serves “ Cold lessens all inflammations, and is a very good application where it can be applied; but it cannot be applied so universally as others. However, cold has this disadvantage, that the pain, although removed while under the application, occurs with double force w-hen it is removed, much more than from any of the applications; and the TCason is evident, for, as the warmth returns, the pain is increased by the warmth, even in sound parts.” (p. 218.) Henry Earle (a), also, although he advocates both cold and warm applications on certain conditions, notices the objections which exist in reference to the use of cold, at the same time that he mentions its advantages. He says:—“ The advantages of the plan (the application of cold) are, that it may generally be resorted to without delay, and that it has the efiect of aflPording immediate relief. The disadvan- tages attending it are, it is necessary to continue or renew the application of cold for a considerable time, as the heat and pain will return, unless the diminished temperature be steadily maintained. On this account it is that, in certain delicate constitutions, and especially when the injury extends to the chest or trunk, this cooling plan of treatment cannot be employed without risk. (p. 301.) The treatment recommended by Kentish (h), and consisting of the primary appli- nf XT stimulating remedies, is generally practised in the coal istncts ot the North of England, and therefore, if for no other reason than that it has been ^ ^ little experience of its wWh’ fe tL ° advantageous than most other plans of incipient treatment, difference in the practice. Kentish’s theoi-y of the treatment of burns and scalds is founded on the mode of treating frost-bite, ^e very ot which he considers, with a fair show of reason,.is-here indicated. Nor are •news to be set down as “visionary, as amusing the fancy, but never capable of im- proving the judgmentnor are they “nearly unintelligible, nor unsuppS bv Tv sort of rational widence,” as they have been, asserted to be by Samuel^Cooper ^ The question “the effects of heat above the freezing point, carried to tS extent of wb^? J^Stht converse of its effects “ below the freezing point, commoMy “iSi k' -II? it, in ttee excitement or actinn nf tlio ixo f i ’ j? i. gradually diminishing the be eLtedfttuglTa^^^^^ ymrmserf to a very high degree, must continue to or some other havila the the stimulus which caused the increased action, tion subsides into the healtlm nrti ** ^.e^i'oes, the extraordinary ac- cannot be done, the most stimiiHn a ^i^^re this there is little fe^ v ic ®«“u‘ant applications must be had recourse to; for. in this cHs« the^^acc d m greater than that which ori^J^MIy caused which they ^ay be hS he^ i "dd to will be to give those substances which soonest excite ftie « ^ttrnal mode of relief ffither, ardent spirits, opium, wine, &c., by Jwch meal ° action IS allowed to continue the shortest time possible continuity of which constitutes the cure.” (pp 112-14) ^ '^'^tty of action restored, with camphor, or spirit of turpentine iLo it ^1 of wine, or spirit of wine or