[ I. .. the .. er,.,pelata i„fiaa™,Uor,- „hieh, says, « often .rises from SPURIOUS ERYSIPELAS. lUl both disappear; on the tenth the new cuticle is commonly left exposed, the old one having separated, and the brownish or dark scab, which had formed where the fluid of the vesications had been discharged, having fallen off.” The disease runs its course more quickly in the young than in those of more advanced age ; and “ the vesications, in the latter instances, are often succeeded by a profuse discharge of acrimonious lymph for several days, so that scabs do not form. Suppuration very rarely occurs in this species of erysipelas, especially when it affects the face.” (pp. 126, 7.) From this description it is quite evident that Chemus is incorrect in making his vesi- cular erysipelas a variety of his true erysipelas : the latter being really erythema, and therefore an exanthematous disease, whilst the former, which is our acute erysipelas, is a bullous disease. It was necessary also to make these observations to prevent the confusion which would otherwise arise from the acceptation in which Chelius uses the terms erysipelas and erythema, differing so entirely from that in which they are employed by English writers.—J. F. S.] 83. The Spurious Erysipelas or Pseudo-Erysipelas is a continual in- flammation of the skin with some redness, {^Erythema,^ which has nothing in common with the true erysipelas but its external appearance, and is produced by any pretty strong irritation of the skin. Influences of this kind are, scorching by the sun, slight burning, cold, irritating ointments and plasters, cantharides, mustard plaster, horse-radish, the juice of toxi- codendron, hard rubbing, wounds and injuries of all kinds, stagnant humours, swellings, hardenings, and so on. Hence inflammation of the skin is produced, either directly or indirectly; in the first case appear- ing immediately, in the second as a consequence of some other disease, which has been excited by inflammation. The inflammation of the skin, thus produced, is either superficial, or it penetrates deeper into the sub- stance of the skin. The former is more like erysipelas, but the latter has rather the character of phlegmonous inflammation, and the more the cellular membrane and muscles are attacked by it, so much the less does the disease deserve the name of inflammation of the skin. 84. According to its various causes. Pseudo-Erysipelas is divided into two kinds:— First. The Erythema idiopathicum, which is merely consequence of and^so on™^*^^° (from cold, heat, corrosive substances, slight injuries, freq'ient form of idiopathic erythema is that caused by friction and com- TriL ^^hich is well exemplified in the chafinVof S’skin i^fet hpliiml noticed in the folds of the skin of the neck, groin and hams and behind the ears of infants, and resulting from inattention to cleanliness the moisture and «kin of these parTfrSSo that ^7wherer?n'’dl'*‘' perspiration is changed to clamminess, aL its quan^^^^^^ ct;.’ Z dT. superficial thin scabs are formed, even before excoriatinn nf tEo severe erythema of the up™“--J p s®] ^rill cause expansions, raalion of the skin accompanying inflam- insuncc, in oxlema, in injuries’ of the head.Tn7vSw:a;:cllt’.