INFLAMMATION OF LIGAMENTS. 208 pressure and motion, and entirely subsiding wlien the patient is at rest; with a soft, doughy-elastic, colourless swelling, which frequently, like the pain, is but partial; usually, however, the whole joint is affected ; it be- comes shiny as the swelling goes on, penetrated with varicose veins, and is mostly somewhat warmer than the healthy parts, in which it is gradually lost. As the swelling increases, the limb wastes, becomes bent at the joint, and all extension is impossible, on account of the thickening of the liga- ments and cellular tissue ; the patient has the sensation of weight, weakne.ss, heat in the whole limb, and is frequently, from time to time, attacked with severe pain. 203. Acute inflammation of the ligaments may be resolved under proper treatment, in which case simultaneous critical symptoms of fever appear, the inflammation subsides, and there remains only for a long time slight swelling and stiffness of the joint. Rarely, and only in rheumatic and gouty subjects, does metastasis take place to other parts. Very severe in- flammation runs either into suppuration and abscess on the external sur- face of the capsular ligament, or, when continued, upon the interior parts, into suppuration of the joint and carious destruction, in which case the local and general symptoms hereafter to be described occur. In chronic inflam- mation the thickening of the ligaments, and the cellular tissue surround- ing them, may be very considerable without the deep parts of the joint being attacked. This swelling is rarely' dispersed entirely; generally, there remains thickening of the ligaments, with impeded motion of the joint, and a greater or less degree of bending of the limb; just as in gouty inflam- mation, swellings, and knots arise from earthy deposits. If the chronic inflammation attack the synovial membrane, earlier or later suppuration of the joint is produced, and the happiest result is anchylosis; but gene- rally hectic consumption is produced. 204. Examination of the joint presents various changes in the structures affected, according to the degree and duration of the inflammation. In the more trifling form, the ligaments, and their investing cellular tissue, are thickened ; subsequently they are changed into a brawny or fatty, grayish white, yellowish or brownish mass. The sy'novial membrane often remains unchanged for a considerable time, or, at the utmost, has a wrinkled appear- ance. In the further progress of the disease, however, it is drawn into this fatlike degeneration ; so that the whole of the joint presents a homogeneous mass, in which are dispersed white membranous shreds, vessels, and tendon.^:, and not unfrequently abscesses from the size of a pea to that of a hazel nut (a). This mass gradually involves the healthy cellular tissue, and'even extends to the muscles. If further destruction occur in the joint, all those changes take place which are alluded to in other forms of inflammation of the joints. [Key (6)says, that, “ in ligamentous fibre, the process of ulceration appears to be accom- panied -with some peculiar circumstances. The ligament, instead of preserving its usual form and size, becomes distended, and feels pulpy. When cut into, the fibres are found to be separated from each other by a vascular structure, which, upon being injected, has a villous appearance. This interstitial vascular mass is the reticular membrane, that in the healthy structure unites the ligamentous fibres; under inflammation it becomes highly vascular, and assumes the appearance alluded to, while the fibres of the ligament retain their natural glistening appearance, until, in the progress of the disease, they at length become softened and pulpy previously to their undergoing absorption. It is not (n) J.eoeb; in his Hamlwiirterbuch der ge- (i) On the Ulcerative Procoa in Joint*; in Med.- aammten Cliirurgie und Augenheilkunde, I.eipzig, Chir. Trans., vol. xviii. 1833. 1836, vol. i. p. 837.