790 DISLOCATION surfaces of the upper-arm-bone project through the skin, the case is always very serious, though experience proves that a cure may take place witliout ' ^ auy particular symptoms. If with this dislocation, there be tearing of the i m. biceps, of the brachial artery or of the median nerve, the ease is I exceedingly dangerous. The complete lateral dislocations are more severe ^ than those backwards. The incomplete dislocations are neither great nor f difficult to reduce; even if they be mistaken the consequences are less I important, if only early motion be used. (1) Astley and Bbansby Cooper (a) effected reduction after three months. Mai, f OAiGNE and Lisfranc reduced a dislocation of the elbow backwards, of fourteen week^ | standing in a boy ten years old. : 1051. The reduction of dislocations of the elbow is not difficult, if undertaken sufficiently early. Extension and counter-extension are pa- formed by two assistants, one of whom grasps the fore-arm above the wrist with one hand, and its upper inner part with the other ; the second assistant places one hand on the shoulder, and with the other draws back i the lower part of the upper-arm. The Surgeon, in the dislocation back- wards, grasps the elbow with both hands in such way, that the four fingers ■ of the one are upon the front, and the thumb upon the back of the upj^a- arm, with which when the extension is sufficiently made, he can press the olechranon downwards and forwards. Astley Cooper puts the patient on a stool, places his knee on the inside of the elbow, grasps the wrist and bends the arm; at the same time he thrusts his knee against the spoke- - bone and cubit, to free them from the upper-arm-bone, and whilst he keeps ujD the pressure with his knee, he strongly but slowly bends the arm. The arm may also be violently bent around a bed-post. After complete reduc- tion, the elbow-joint is to be surrounded with moistened compresses, a X bandage applied and the arm to be put in a sling. The supervenii^ ; inflammatory symptoms must be removed by a proper antiphlogistic treat- ment, and the continual employment of cold applications. The bandages; • should be removed every two days, so that gentle movements of pronalion and supination may be made, in order to ascertain the actuality of the reduction. The dislocation of the cubit alone, is always easily reduced by one of the prescribed methods; but if, as in the cases mentioned by Sedillot, the fore-arm be extended, extension must be made, and thoi the arm bent. If the corouary ligament of the spoke-bone be not torn, that bone retains its pra0 position on the cubit; but if it be torn, the spoke-bone must be pressed especially into its place, and the recurrence of its displacement prevented by a splint placed along its back. If in dislocation backward, the lower ends of the upper-arm-bone be driven through the skin, the reduction is not thereby rendered difficult; it must be perfonwri as soon as possible, and the wound closed. If severe inflammation exist, sawing ra the projecting ends may alone be sufficient to lessen the symptoms. In tearing of tne braAial artery and median nerve, the former must be tied before the reduction; how- ever, the probable danger of gangrene iu this case may render amputation necessary.' 1052. The reduction of the lateral dislocation must be effected in the w'ay mentioned, only the joint-ends of the bones must be pres^, both ’lands, in the opposite direction to that in which they are dislocated. In these dislocations also Astley Cooper makes extension upon the knee, as already stated. Violent extension of tlie arm is also often sufficient The inflammatory symptoms in lateral dislocation, are always more se^ ; than in that behind; therefore also is a more strict antiphlogistic treat- ment required. > (o) Above cited, p. 441.