488 WOUNDS OF THE TESTICLE, ETC., tion of plastic lymph, in some places almost amounting to pseudo-membranous consis- tency. A little matter was also observed, but in no place amounting to any quantity. (2) I cannot assent to Chelius’s recommendation of amputating the penis. The part should be cut into, and pressure employed, if the bleeding vessel cannot be found^ or ' the torn bleeding tissue cannot be tied.—J. F. S.] 554. An injury not unfrequent after a fall on the perineum, or after severe contusion of that part, is tearing of tlie canal of the urethra, by which frequently the skin and cellular tissue are at the same time torn, or there may be only perceptible externally the mark of a severe bruise. Under these circumstances the tearing of the urethra may be presumed, if at the same time blood flow from its orifice. The characteristic symptoms, however, soon set in; great desire to make water, which the patient can only do with pain and imperfectly. The pain is felt especially at the seat of the bruise, but soon spreads over the whole penis, the purse and groins, on which parts a swelling forms, which soon enlarges, and, although very tense, appears infiltrated, becomes brown or violet, and runs into gangrene. If the tear in the urethra communicate with that in the skin, and the opening of the latter be parallel with that in the former, the urine may pass out freely thereby. By such injury of the urethra a large portion of it may be destroyed, and, in this way, an incurable urinary fistula pro- duced. 555. The most important indication in this wound of the urethra is to prevent infiltration of the urine. If the symptoms be decisive that the canal of the urethra is torn, the catheter must be introduced with the greatest care, and inflammation prevented by a proper antiphlogistic treat- ment. If infiltration have already occurred, a cut must be made at the place of the bruise down to the urethra, and a catheter introduced. If' the infiltration of the urine be already extensive, several incisions must be made to discharge the urine from the cellular tissue. The wound must be treated after the general rules; the catheter must remain in till com- plete scarring is effected. If the introduction of the catheter be omitted at first, or be impossible, it must be used when the inflammatory symptoms i have subsided. [When the urethra has been ascertained to be torn through in the perineum, whether ’ there be an external wound or not, the catheter should be at once introduced; but if tliis i cannot be done, a cut must be made through the raphe upon the catheter previously • passed as far as it will go, and the wound being found, the catheter is then to be con- - tinned into the bladder, and there retained. If the catheter can be introduced without t cutting into the perineum, free leeching of that part is necessary, and great attention from i day to day to ascertain whether either urine be extravasated or pus be formed, as in t either case upon their discovery an incision must be immediately made to prevent the f serious mischief which will ensue from their confinement.—J. F. S.] VII.—OF WOUNDS OF THE TESTICLE AND OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. i 556. The inflammation accompanying Injuries of the Testicle is always • very severe, and requires with the ordinary treatment of the wound, strict t antiphlogistic treatment, as already laid down in inflammation of the testicle i {par. 172.) If the testicle be destroyed by injurjq or by the consequent ti suppuration in its organization, its removal is necessary. Wounds of the Spermatic Cord, in which the nerves and vessels going r to the testicle are injured, cause slirivelling or decay. [Wounds of the testicle are very rare; but that organ may be wounded in tapping a ^