470 GENERAL TREATMENT According to JoniiRT(a), the application of the stitching, with turning in of the edges of the wound but drawing together of the threads. The inflamed serous membrane bears this, but it tears in knitting together. , [TR.A.VERS gives the following excellent description “ of the reparation by artificial connexion of the divided parts” of a wounded intestine. “ It commences with the ag- glutination of the contiguous mucous surfaces, probably by the exudation of a fluid similar to that which glues together the sides of a recent flesh wound when supported in con- tact. The adhesive inflammation supervenes and binds down the reverted edges of the peritoneal coat, from the whole circumference of which a layer of coagulable lymph is effused, so as to envelope the wounded bowel. The action of the longitudinal fibres being opposed to the artificial connexion, the sections mutually recede as the sutures loosen by the process of ulcerative absorption. During this time the lymph deposited becomes organized, by which further retraction is prevented, and the original cylinder with the threads attached to it are encompassed by the new tunic. The gut ulcerates at the points of the ligatures, and these fall into its canal. The fissures left by the liga- tures are gradually healed up ; but the opposed villous surfaces, so far as my observa- tion goes, neither adhere nor become consolidated by granulation, so that the interstice marking the division internally is probably never obliterated. An intestine treated by suture is always more or less connected by incidental adhesions to the contiguous sur- faces ; these may, with some caution be detached from the peritoneal coat. Irregularities of the external surface, from exuberances of deposition, seem to depend upon the partial or irregular apposition of the cut extremities; and the width of the interstice is de- termined by the more or less firm and complete contact in which the divided parts are held by the suture. Although the substance of the paries intestinalis is ever after defi- cient in the line of division, yet, by inspection of the external surface, it would be difficult, if possible, to say, where the division had taken place, even at a recent period from the injury.” * # # « it has been found sufficient for the purpose of union to in- clude only the the peritoneal covering of the intestine in the suture, a proof that provided the severed extremities are firmly brought into contact, the event under any circum- stances, will be uniform. The adhesion which takes place between the mucous surfaces, in a few hours after their connexion by suture, is in no instance permanent, being destroyed by the retraction of the divided parts when the ligatures loosen. But if this retraction could be prevented, and the mucous surfaces were retained in contact, it is probable that no organized, and of course no permanent union could take place betwixt them; for the internal coat of the bowel is, as before observed, indisposed to the ad- hesive inflammation. For this reason it is, that the ligatures invariably pass into the canal; their separation externally would have interrupted the healing process, as we find to be the case in other parts to which they are applied.” (p. 128-32.)] 530. If, in a perfectly divided intestine, only one end project through the wound, and the other be not to be found, a single loop is to be drawn through the mesentery, brought back, and attached to a corresponding part of the external wound. 531. If there be supposed to be a wound of an intestine, or if it be certainly ascertained, {par, 520,) nothing more can be done than to bind up the | superficial wound, and obviate dangerous inflammation by strictly antiphlo- gistic treatment. Repeated general and local blood-lettings must be had recourse to, which the seemingly great weakness of the patient, the small compressed pulse, the cold extremities, should not preclude. Softening poultices are to be applied over the belly, and it should be attempted to overcome the great disposition to costiveness which exists in every wound of the intestine, by mild purgatives with oily emulsions, but still more certainly with repeated clysters, and with calomel. The patient should be kept as quiet as possible, and lie upon the injured side. If the faecal matter escape from the wound, it must be kept open ; and, as often as cleanliness requires, it must be dressed. At every dressing it must be attempted, by a slight pressure on tlie region of the wound, to facilitate the escape of the faecal matter. Tlie prescribed general treatment (<i) Archives Generales de Mcdecinc, 1837, Maicli.