749 TREATMENT. md six months after the operation he first observed ficculent matter in small quantities o pass from the urethra, whilst attempting to make water in the erect posture, and at ie^ue time pressing on the anus to prevent the escape of the urine through it. Ordi- larilv when he is costive, the motions pass in small bits from the anus, and small lieces’ about the size of peas, and occasionally longer, on an average, about a tea- ipoonful, are daily voided by the urethra; but this rarely continues for more than a day )ra dav’and a-half at a time. Ever since the operation he has been much troubled with vind, of which night and morning he passes considerable quantity, which, collecting in he bulb, produces great pain till voided by the urethra. He always passes much nucus by the rectum, and sometimes also from the penis. Occasionally after connexion, le has observed a little moisture about the anus, with the usual sensation of water pass- n" by it. The fistulous opening is sometimes sore, especially when the bowels are nuch relaxed, and then stools and urine mixed pass like pease soup from the urethra. \bout four times within the last eleven years there seems to have been a gathering for ibout a fortnight, during which no wind passed by the urethra, and he suffered great lain till the wind again escaped. This was soon followed by blood and pus, after which le got better, and went about as usual. He now never leaves his bed without it being ■vet the urine having flowed unwittingly through the anus, as he supposes; and, in uaking water, he is obliged to sit on a chamber-pot, to avoid the inconvenience of the vater streaming down upon him. Occasionally he has heat at the lower part of the ■ectum, hardly amounting to scalding, and he thinks that in the last four years the juantity of stool passed by the urethra has increased. When a catheter is introduced ihrough the penis, the point passes directly into the rectum by a narrow slit, about an nch and a-half long, immediately above the m. sphincter ani, unless by the finger pre- 'iously placed in the gut, the tip of the instrument be lifted up and prevented entering. Jn consulting with my friend Green, whose patient he was, it was determined that I hould perform the following operation, on Nov. 18. Having bound him and placed him on the table, in the same posture as I hat for the lateral operation for stone, the forefinger was introduced by the rectum into he fistulous orifice above the sphincter, but its tip only could penetrate into the cavity if the bladder, after passing for about an inch seemingly along the opened imder-surface if the prostate part of the urethra. A staff was then passed by the penis, and its tip laving been tilted by the finger into the bladder, was held as in the operation for the 'tone. A curved blunt-pointed bistoury was next passed on the finger into the rectum, i.nd thence into the fistulous opening till its extremity lodged in the groove of the staff, owards which having turned its edge I cut through the sphincter by drawing the knife 0 the perincRum, and then removing the staff, the finger readily entered the bladder, ''’or the purpose of obtaining a complete view of the fistulous opening, Weiss’s speculum tayinte was passed into the rectum, and the aperture was then found to be an inch long, '.nd half an inch wide, with a rounded and very thin edge; but it was requisite to jontiiiue the opening of the urethra still more forward into the perinceum, before the jistulous opening was sufSciently exposed to permit the paring of its edge. I first, lowever, separated each side of the wound in the rectum, from its connexions with the leighbouring parts, which on the left side, where the cut in the former operation had iten made, was of a gristly hardness. The bleeding from these edges was free, a vessel r two required tying, but they continued oozing freely, and were only checked by epeated bathing with cold water. The upper part of the fistulous aperture was then eized with Lisfranc’s tentacles, drawn down, and about half an inch of it cut off, vhich was followed by free bleeding, probably from the veins at the neck of the bladder, t'he sides of the upper part of this wound were then brought together with a single aterriipted suture, so as to shut off the communication between the bladder and rectum; mt the lower part was left alone, the object being to endeavour to establish a fistulous Ipening in the perinaum as the most likely mode of closing that between the rectum ud bladder, and to render this more likely, the wound in the perinceum was continued nrward till the urethra was opened as far as its passage through the triangular ligament f the puhes. A female catheter was then passed by this opening into the bladder, but s bleeding continued after he was put to bed, it was withdrawn, and having a collar of ponge wrapped round, it was replaced, in hope that the swelling of the sponge would T empress the bleeding vessels. > About six hours after the operation, he voided by the catheter some very bloody I nne, soon after felt sick and faint, and almost immediately had two gushes of clotted tl lood, (about half-a-pint,) accompanied with air from the rectum. He complained of II inch pain in the loins, and of being distended with wind. As 1 thought the swollen