OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 583 t itherefore, very easily displaced. Posch’s (a) foot-bed or Sauter’s (d) iiiiachine serves best for permanent extension. 708. In fractures of the leg near the knee-joint, the setting is best nanaged in tlie half bent position, which is the most proper during the lire. The contentive apparatus is to be applied with this difference, that ne splint is to be put in front, another upon the inner, and one upon the back of the leg, which should lie on the outer side, or on a double inclined ed. If the head of the shin-bone be broken obliquely into the knee- ijoint, the leg must be kept straight, fixed by the contentive apparatus, ^ind stift’ness prevented by early motion. 709. Fracture of the leg is frequently connected with a wound produced y external violence, or by tearing of the soft parts by pieces of bone being Iriven outwards. In the latter case the wound must be enlarged, and ften the piece of bone sawn off, in order to effect the proper replacement, he seat and direction of the fracture determine the kind of apparatus, he simple contentive bandage has in these cases the disadvantage of requiring frequent renewal, on account of attending to the wound. Here the suspensory apparatus, in which the limb lies free, and the wound can le properly attended to, is best. Braun’s (c) machine is merely a sus- endor, and can therefore principally serve in those cases only in which the broken ends, after being set, have no disposition to displacement. When this is the case, Posch’s foot-bed, with Eichheimer’s (d) improve- tiknent, or Sauter’s machine, best answer the purpose. These two machines 9'have the advantage that they not only suspend the leg, but also keep it (wpermanently extended. la Seutin’s permanent apparatus for fracture of the leg may be easily modified from :®^hat for fracture of the thigh. The thigh part is not required ; the apparatus, how- liever, must be applied of sufficient length upon the broken parts. In fracture near the !,-4knee-joint, it must therefore reach over the lower part of the thigh-bone. As in the ijleg there is little danger of separation, the patient may lie in winter upon a sofa at the a fire, and in summer he may sit in the sun, so that the bandages may dry in twelve Jf hours, if there be no special disposition to inflammation in the joint, n [The treatment of fracture of the leg, when either one of the bones only is broken, is >_■ very easy, the unbroken bone forming the best and most efficient splint which can be « provided. And indeed if the patient be quiet, there is no real necessity for splint or »i bandage of any kind, which, however, it is necessary to apply to quiet the anxiety of IX the patient and his friends. If, however, both bones be broken, they must be kept in s place by apparatus of some kind or other. If wooden splints be used, one on each side fi is sufficient, and the leg is best laid upon the side, with the knee half bent to relax the fa i muscles, and the tip of the great toe so raised as to be on the same level with the knee- . cap. I do not think that usually there is any necessity for the application of a third t< splint along the shin. Especial care must be taken that the edges and ankle-holes of the ii splints are well covered, so as to prevent their digging into the skin and forming tiresome ^ sores. Some prefer the straight posture with the leg resting on the heel, but I think the t bent is more agreeable to tbe patient. In the common transverse fractures of the leg, B: my colleagues and myself almost invariably use the gum roller, without either splints or fracture-box, and with very great success, as well as comfort to the patient, who is not then confined to his bed more than six or eight days, but allowed to be about on cratches. The plaster of Paris apparatus of Seutin, or the white of egg and flour splints t with starch roller, may either of them be used in this fracture advantageously ; but they B occupy more time in their application, and we now seldom use them. Oblique fracture . 0) ^«chreibung einer ncuen, sehr bequemen ' Marine, das Fusabett gcnannt, zur Ileilung des ■ ecnienbeinbriichcs. Wien, 1774. 8vo. ; (6) Above cited. ' (®) ^^tzler Beschreibung der BRAUN’schen laacliine zur zweckmassigen Lage einfacher und TOmplicirter Beinbrnche derunteren Gliedmasaen. . > Ira, 1800. (d) Beschreibung und Abbildung einer Maschine fir einfache und complicirteBeinbruche des Unter- schenkels, welchenacnderPosoH und BBAUN’schen Maschine construirt, die Vortlieiledesselben verei- nigt, nebst einer Vorrichtung, welche bei dem Transportiren soldier Patienten gebraucht werden kann; with five lithographed engravings. Miin- chen, 1821. 8vo.