629 ULCEKS. %'erpes 7nentagra. The division of herpetic eruptions according to their S ternal form is of little consequence, as they are remarkably changeable, ifr 789. It is uncertain wliether the proximate cause of herpetic eruptions (^.nsiste in a specific dyscrasy, whether it be the same in all herpetic ftseases, or whetlier upon its difference depends the peculiar form of the " .:rpes.' Some kinds, especially the eating kind, cannot in its advanced s;oTee be denied to be contagious. II (The disposition to herpes which may also be hereditary, depends com- 0 only on a peculiar delicacy and sensibility of the skin, in which usually /erpes fiir/uraceus consists; the herpes mostly shows itself in those 1 . .rts which are very sensible and are much exposed to the air, therefore ■ peciallyon the face and hands. The remote causes are frequently stop- ■ (tges in the intestines of the belly, especially faulty action of the liver, sup- r.t-ession of the natural or long-continued discharges, haemorrhoids, sweat- o- of the feet, the monthly purification and the like, diminished secretion ■ the skin and kidneys especially in elderly persons, previous acute ij/uptions of the skin or acute diseases especially. Further, uncleauliness, ..‘glected cleansing of the skin, irritation of the skin from rough, espe- :■ ally from woollen clothing, or from working among wool; the use of ery acrid food and drink. This herpes is often complicated with scro- dous, syphilitic, or gouty affections, and these seem to be its especial mses; although they can be less distinguished by the peculiar form of le eruption and ulcer, than by the general symptoms belonging to them. 1 hot climates herpes is more frequent than in cold; in our region ' is more especially developed in summer ; in the winter it often subsides itirely or remains stationary. From what has been said, it is clear why the repulsion, or imperfect development herpes, may bring about dangerous symptoms, inflammation and pain in the internal rts, spasms, convulsions, apoplexy, palsy, sudden death, stoppage in the bowels, dropsy, ; nsumption, and so on. Veiel (a) has proposed a division of herpes, which is extremely important, both as gards the generic development and the treatment. According to his views, hei-petic options are either direct effluvia from the blood or diseased changes of the several gans of the skin.^ They are in part hereditary, derived from ancestors, and deeply oted in the organism; in part acquired—that is, are the spontaneous crises of various seas^ as gout, rheumatism, and so on, or diseases consequent on acute and contagious anthemata, as scarlet fever, itch, and so on. The blood-herpetic eruptions are primarily produced by an apparently fluid deposit neath or on the skin, as the reflection of disturbance in the mixing of the blood, as the mediate effluvia from the extremities of the blood-vessels. The herpetic eruptions of the in are Kcondary changes of the structure of the layers of the skin, produced first of 1, by a disease of the actual organ of the skin, in which either the blood selects this gan as a depot, or in which it is spontaneously diseased. The blood-herpes is usually remtary; shows itself in the development of the teeth as Strophulus and obstinate orngo; before puberty commonly as scrofula, especially as scrofulous ophthalmia • after as herpes, and finally as gout. The skin-herpes mostly acquired, occur as' con- quent of other eruptions, porrigo, itch, nettle rash; the blood-herpes, especially -am chrontcum Md Porrigo, from checking of the perspiration, from the mode of naif’ a ®loo<l-berpes is variable; it subsides and appears without discernible dv’^fl vascular and richly glandular parts of the pustules as its special form. The skin-herpes spreads scales and imp^erfect^ extending sides of the joint, and presents itself ^ semicritical result of deficient mixing of the blood, repelled mai remedies, may produce dangerous consequences from metastasis, whilst skin- Flcchton in Allgemeinen ; in C.\speb’b Wochenschrift fiir die ges. lieilkunde.