593 BY SETON. ^ ry similar in appearance to the intervertebral substance ■when divided transversely, M ,t especially that part of it which is found half-way between the centre and circum- Jirence.” (p. 826,') It appears to me, in regard to this case, that if White’s treatment jiid been followed out and the ligamentous covering of the lower end of the bone had en destroyed w’ith caustic the result might probably have been more favourable. As ^■'was, the object of die operation, to wit, that of getting rid of the ligamentous or car- aginous coverings of the fractured ends was only partially effected.—J. F. S.] 4'' 719. The introduction of a seton is to be effected in the following manner: ^ -It should be attempted by extension and counter-extension to bring the I) .’oken ends into proper position, and even to separate them somewhat from fl '.ch other. AVith due caution the place is to be chosen, where the seton- j ^edle armed with silk can be so thrust into and through the whole limb, 4 tat no large vessel nor nerves should be wounded, and so that the seton- A-.read be placed between tlie two ends of the fracture. It might be better, i'lrhaps, in most cases, to cut down on both sides to the bone, for the pur- 4 -ise of more certainly and accurately carrving the seton through between ,n-e fractured ends. The limb should then be duly extended, and kept in W'oper position by a suitable apparatus. The seton-threads are to be drawn {■ lily backwards and forwards between the fractured ends, and to be entirely l(timoved as soon as the ends are found to be knit together. Tf, after three gr four months, no firm union have ensued, all hope of cure must be given \i I; there remains then, if the patient will be relieved of the inconvenience ft'the unnatural joint, no other remedy than amputation. Weinhold (a) himself employed with advantage his needle-trephine with which he itroduced a wedge-shaped seton smeared with some irritating matter. (Oppenheiw (b) recommends, in order to make the operation of the seton more pow- fiil, enduring and effectual, where the circumstances previous to the introduction of a Sjton had not promised, d priori, any result, the introduction of two setons, not indeed as {I -eady proposed, through the newly-formed cartilaginous intermediate mass, but in such a ly that each seton should be in contact with one of the fractured ends: the setons not to •! left too long, but only till such time as suppuration was properly established, and then 3 I once withdrawn, instead of by repeated and gradual thinning the size of the seton. two cases Oppenheim pursued this practice with success under the most unfavourable "cumstances. According to Jobert’s opinion (c), the seton should be left in only eight days. .( [720. The use of the seton may be accompanied with difficulty and li inger, when in an oblique fracture the surfaces of the fracture correspond, i ' that in passing the needle through, important vessels and nerves may be g jured. If the fractured ends be so close together that their surfaces I uch only at one little point, the proper position of the bone must be first ‘i« stained by permanent extension, after which by the introduction of the 9 ture some advantage may be gained. •T721. The introduction of the seton is more simple and less dangerous 4 an sawing off' the ends of the fracture; healing also takes place without w lortening of the limb ; but in many cases, on account of its less activity, :»i ' is not beneficial, as when the ends of the bone are united by a wide mass > ‘ cartilage, or by an actual false joint. The seton should be left for a long \ me, for four or five months, even to the consolidation of the bone (Phy- (:CK.) Smearing the seton-thread with irritating ointment, for the purpose •0 ■ strengthening its operation, may easily excite erysipelatous inflammation, «iiscesses, and constitutional irritation. The symptoms after sawing off » ,a)Von dcr Ileilung des falschen Gelenkes, V?; ; •" Hofei,AND^s Journal, May, 1826. .0) Hamburg Zeitzschrift. A VOL. I, (c) Archives Generales de Medecine, 1840, Octo- bre, p. 224. 2 Q