29 MICROSCOPIC OBSERVATIONS. The account given by Gendrin (a) of the steps by which the stagnation of the blood in inflammation is produced is very interesting“ The capillaries around this (irri- tated) point dilate, and seem to multiply themselves; because a greater number is perceived on account of the presence of red blood, which, in colouring them, renders them more visible. The globules arrive; they are crowded together, their motion is retarded, and at length suspended; they revolve upon themselves, and at last remain entirely at rest. The capillary circulation is then evidently suspended in the point irritated; for some distance around, the retardation of the circulation and dilatation of the capillaries are plainly seen; a little farther off the circulation is more rapid, the capillaries being still dilated, and the globules of the blood less distinct; finally, at the limits of the inflamed areola the circulation is, on the contrary, accelerated, the capil- laries dilated, and the blood contains a greater number of globules. All these changes : may take place in four or five minutes, and the same space of time is sufficient to allow I of the capillary circulation returning to its natural state.” (vol. ii. p. 475.) The ob- .jection made by Earle to Thomson’s experiment, that inflammation had not been • excited, might perhaps, strictly speaking, be made use of here; but it is quite clear that the experiment had reached the turning point from healthy to diseased action. Thomson’s experiments have been repeated and detailed by Travers, in his chapter, ! Direct Effects of Stimuli and of Wound, and all coincide in producing the same phe- inomena, excepting that with ammonia; in which Travers’s observations are remark- lably opposed to those of Thomson ; for “ the application of ammonia,” says he, “ pro- iduced an instant increase of velocity, then stagnation, with the deepened tint of colour and enlargement of vessels.” (p. 36). Travers gives a very beautiful account of “ the oscillation attending the recovery lof the circulation, which seems to be the punctum saliens, or first movement towards rthe formation of the new circulation.” (p. 166.) * * * “ The first effect of a drop of stimulant fluid, or of a wound upon a transparent web, (frog’s foot,) as seen in the field of a powerful microscope, is,” says he, “ to arrest the circulation at the part. Around the point of absolute stagnation, the column of blood oscillates, and the particles are seen to separate and congregate in small irregular masses, presenting varieties of shape, some being perfect ellipses, others spherical. The vessels are dilated, and, in proportion, their fulness is increased, and their pink colour heightened. Still more remote from the stagnant centre increased activity of circulation prevails. The point of stagnation, the very slow circulation in the part immediately surrounding it, :he current still oscillating in parts, and beyond this the more rapid and vigorous circulation, are manifested for several days. The contrasted appearance of one oortion of the web stationary, and another in brisk circulation, is striking. The labour also of the current, the sudden overcoming of the obstacle occasioned by a too crowded passage, and the instant velocity succeeding thereupon, reminds us of the swaying backward and forward, and at length the inrush, of a crowd emerging into an open space from a narrow avenue.” (p. 34, 35.) ; Bennett says:—“It is very difficult to determine the cause of oscillation in the column 5f blood. It may be remarked, however, that this phenomenon has only been observed n the smaller animals which are held fast under the microscope. Even here the oscil- ation is not invariably seen to precede the stoppage. It is most frequently observed, ilso, when the animal is very weak, or has fallen into asphyxia. Under such circum- tances the energy of the heart and large vessels is evidently diminished, and the blood vill be propelled with less force than usual against the capillaries, and either stop for a noraent, or flow backwards during the diastole of the heart. It is probable, therefore, hat the oscillation does not essentially belong to inflammation, but rather depends upon he general weakness of the animal.” (p. 33.) The phenomena attending the first steps of the inflammatory process excited in the reb of a frog’s foot, as seen under the microscope, are well described by Wharton 'ONES (6). “ Very soon after the irritation,” he says, “ accumulation and stagnation of ■he blood in the capillaries, including the terminations of the arteries and radicles of ■he veins of the part, is obsen-ed to take place; but, amidst the obstructed vessels a few ere and there may still be seen pervious, and through them the stream of blood is very apid. The accumulation and stagnation of the blood in the small vessels is always ■receded by a retardation of its flow (coincident with dilatation of the vessels;) this etardation of the flow of blood having or not been preceded by the opposite condition f an accelerated flow (coincident with constriction of the vessels.)” He then proceeds ) inquire into “ the behaviour of the blood during the retardation of its flow and at (a) Hist. Anat. dcs Inflammations. (6) Report.