603 OPERATION. . effected only by the union of the cleft after previous paring of the edges. i.lThis operation, (^Gaumen-Nahl, Germ.; Staphyloraphy, Kyanoraphy, ,•< Uranoraphy, Uraniskorap/iy,) first proposed by Graefe, and performed j in the year 1816, is in itself of no great importance, but, on account ol t the difficulties in its performance, is one of the most delicate operations. ,I The more full, and the less apart the edges of the cleft are, and the less n they are stretched, the more complete is usually the result of the opera- (I tion. If there be at the same time a cleft in the hard palate, the perfect )i union of the cleft in the soft palate is but rarely effected ; most commonly < the operation is quite unsatisfactory. The operation should not be h performed on children, but only in adults. Staphyloraphy may be also ^ employed in other diseased conditions of the soft palate than congenital I clefts ; as, for instance, in wounds («), and in the division produced by l< syphilitic ulcers and tlie like. J Ebel’s advice is to prepare the patient for this operation by frequent dabbings, and » brushings of the palate curtain, by pressing down the tongue and the like for the ff purpose of accustoming these parts to irritation. Gkaefe’s proposition is to excite ft .active inflammation and superficial suppuration, by frequently touching with concen- j) trated muriatic or sulphuric acid, the parts lying near the cleft in the palate curtain, in 9 order to render them fitter for union, by altering their tissue if it be too open, too soft, I too full of the juices, too muco-membranous (d). 734. The operation of Staphyloraphy, for the performance of which so many different, and some extremely complicated and unsuitable, modes have been proposed, is most simply and suitably conducted in the fol- lowing way:—The patient being placed opposite a good light, the mouth wide open, and the tongue well depressed by the patient’s own efforts ; or the mouth kept open with a piece of cork introduced between the hinder grinding teeth, and the tongue depressed by an assistant with a simple spatula, half a line of the lower part of the left edge of the cleft is to be caught hold of with a pair of sufficiently long hooked forceps, gently drawn out, and a lancet-shaped cataract knife is to be thrust near the forceps through the edge of the cleft. The knife is then to be sawed from below upwards, and a strip as wide as a straw separated up to the angle of the cleft. And, lastly, the little part where the forceps have been applied is to be cut off from above downwards. In the same manner the opposite side is to be treated, and especial care should be taken that, at the angle of the cleft, both cuts are very close, and joining at an acute angle, and that the removal of the edges be everywhere equal. The patient is then to be left quite quiet, and may frequently gargle with cold water, by which the slight bleeding is easily stopped, and the viscid mucus got rid of. [The operation of staphyloraphy appears to have been first performed by Le Monnier, and is thus mentioned by Robert (c) :—“ A child had the palate cleft from the velum to the incisive teeth. M. Le Monnier, a very clever dentist, attempted with success to re-unite the two edges of the cleft, first making several points of suture to hold them together, and then refreshing them with a cutting instrument. Inflammation ensued, terminated in suppuration, and was followed by union of the two lips of the artificial wound. The child was perfectly cured.” Upon which Velpeau observes ; “ A child, a cleft, the suture, the refreshing, the cure, everything, in spite of the some- what vague expressions of Robert, scarcely permits us to doubt that this dentist truly had recourse to staphyloraphy, and not to the suture of a simple perforation of the palatine vault.” He also mentions, that “in 1813 experiments upon the dead body were made by Colombe, and that he was desirous of repeating them on a patient in 1815, who, however, refused.” (p. 573.)] , Fkbieb ; in Revue Med., 1823, July, p. 245. (0) ScHWEBDT, above cited, vol. ix. (c) Meraoires sur difFerents objets de Medecine. Paris, 1764.