ANALYTICAL INDEX. XCIX ion, ii. 45 ; South on tlie consequences of he constriction, and on violence in the pplication of the taxis, ii. 45; Key and ^outh on the signs indicative of gangrene .f the intestine, ii. 45; Key and South’s ases of gangrenous intestine, in which a stid smell was perceptible before the sac ras opened, ii. 46; absence of the fetid inell not a certain sign of healthy intes- me, ii. 46 ; Lawrence recommends open- ng the sac, and dividing the stricture rom within, ii.. 46; South on the division f the stricture external to the sac, ii. 47 ; outh on the treatment after the opera- on, ii. 47; Luke’s description of the peration for dividing the stricture ex- -rnal to the sac, ii. 47; Luke on the iagnosis of the seat of stricture, ii. 47 ; 4uke on the incision of the sac, or on artial division of its neck in several Jaces, when the stricture is caused by it, [ .48; treatment after the operation, ii. I i; treatment when the symptoms of rangulatiou persist after the operation, . 49 ; Key and South on suppuration of ■te sac, ii. 49 ; South’s case of extensive oughing of the abdominal and lumbar •llular tissue after the operation, ii. 49 ; .eatment of sloughy intestine, ii. 49; ■rmation of an artificial anus, ii. 49 ; ad- ■sion of the gut to the mouth of the sac hen sloughing takes place, ii. 49; stley Cooper and Key’s cases of slough- g of the intestine, after it had been re- rned into the abdomen, ii. 49 ; Kams- m’s case of fatal contraction and ulcera- m of the intestine after strangulation, ii. I; Key and South on the occurrence of ..ngrene in the intestine some days after e operation in persons of enfeebled con- •itution, ii. 50; Key on the fatal termi- tion of cases after the operation, when eceded by great depression of powers, 51 ; Astley Cooper’s case of tetanus u;r the operation, i. 51 ; tabular view operations for strangulated rupture, ii. ; im/uinal rupture, ii. 54; situation (1 varieties, ii. 54; anatomy of the rts concerned, ii. 54; South’s descrip- n of the fascia transversal is, ii. 55; [ ■ernal or oblique inguinal rupture, ii. ! ; situation and direction, ii. 56; in- \ 'ual or direct inguinal rupture, ii. 57 ; j nation and direction, ii. 57; diagnosis I tween these only possible when small ■ 1 recent, ii. 57; coverings of the ex- nal or oblique inguinal rupture, ii. 57 ; perfect inguinal rupture, or rupture in '■ inguinal canal, ii. 57; situation and j terings, ii. 57 ; South on the coverings this variety of rupture, ii. 57 ; cover- ps of the internal or direct inguinal )ture, ii. 57 ; comparative frequency i protrusion of the respective viscera, ii. j 58; congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 58 ; causes, ii. 58 ; distinguished from external inguinal rupture, ii. 58; coverings of congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 59; nar- rowing of the hernial sac, ii. 59 ; con- genital inguinal hernia called by Astley Cooper encysted hernia of the tunica vaginalis, ii. 59; diagnosis of rupture from hydrocele, ii. 59 ; South on the dif- ficulty of diagnosis between rupture and hydrocele of the cord, ii. 60 ; South’s cases of hydrocele of the cord mistaken for rupture, ii. 60 ; complication of rup- ture with hydrocele, i. 61; Mr. T. Blizard and Cline^ jun. cases of hydro- cele in front of an inguinal rupture, ii. 61 ; diagnosis between rupture and vari- cocele, ii. 61 ; and inflammatory swelling of the spermatic cord, ii. 61 ; and the arrest and inflammation of the testicle in the inguinal canal, ii. 62 ; Key’s case of strangulated inguinal rupture, the tes- ticle being at the external ring, ii. 62 ; diagnosis between inguinal ruptures and fat-ruptures, ii. 62 ; collections of fat on the surface of the peritoneum, ii. 62; Pelletan on the mechanism of the fat- rupture, when it descends through the inguinal canal, ii. 62 ; diagnosis between inguinal rupture, and collections of pus passing through the inguinal canal out at the abdominal ring. ii. 63 ; return of the inguinal rupture, ii. 63 ; application of the truss, ii. 63 ; seat of strangulation, ii. 63 ; the operation for strangulated in- guinal rupture, ii. 63 ; important in old scrotal rupture on the right side, to ascer- tain whether the coecum or commence- ment of the colon be the protruded viscus, ii. 64; direction of the cut in dividing the stricture, ii. 64 ; South on the direc- tion of the cut in dividing the stricture, ii. 64 ; congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 64 ; process of the radical cure, ii 65 ; opera- tion for strangulated congenital inguinal rupture, ii. 65 ; the operation for inguinal rupture, without opening the sac, ii. 65 ; external inguinal rupture in women, ii. 65; Nuck and Cloquet on the diverticulum of the peritoneum, ii. 65 ; Allan Burns on the frequency of congenital rupture in the female, ii. 65; femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; situation and sub-divisions, ii. 66 ; Logier on oblique femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; ana- tomy of femoral rupture, ii. 66 ; South on the anatomy of femoral rupture, ii. 67 ; femoral rupture occurs more rarely than inguinal, and more frequently in women than in men, ii. 69 ; symptoms of femoral rupture, ii. 69 ; Astley Cooper and Cal- laway on the seat of femoral rupture, ii. 70 ; South on the diagnosis of femoral from inguinal rupture in women, ii. 70; Astley Cooper and South on the presence