OF CLEFT SOFT PALATE. 602 operation my patient was perfectly relieved of every vestige of his deformity. Tl» ligatures were cut away on the fourth, fifth, and sixth day, and nothing of con^'quenn* occurred during the period of confinement.” (pp. 21, 2.) ^ III.—OF THE CLEFT IN THE SOFT PALATE. (Fissura Palati Mollis, Lat.; Spalte im weiclien Gaumen, Germ.; Division du Voile da Palais, Fr.) Ghaefe, Die Gaumen-Naht, ein neuentdecktes Mittel gegen angebome Fehler der Sprache; in Joum. fur Chirurg. und Aungenheilk., vol. i. p. 1, and p. 556. Stephenson, Dissert, de Velosynthesi. Edinb., 1820. Doniges, De variis uranoraphes methodis Aphorismi. Berol., 1824. 8vo. Ebel, Beitmge zur Gaumen-Naht; in v. Graefe and v. Walther’s Journal, vol vL part i. p. 79. Wernecke, Ueber die Gaumen-Naht; ib., p. 102. Roux, Me'moire sur la Staphyloraphie, ou Suture du Voile du Palais. Paris 1825 8vo. ’ Dieffenbach, Vergleichonde anatomische Untersuchungen fiber den Gaumen-Segd* in Hecker’s literarischen Annalen.—Beitrage zur Gaumen-Naht; ib., Febr 182«’ p. 145; July, 1827, p. 343. ’ ’ ScHWERDT, F., Die Gaumen-Naht; a description of all the various methods and the instruments known to have been used in, up to the present time; with a prefece by V. Graefe and four copper-plates. Berlin, 1829. 4to. Velpeau, Nouveaux Siemens de Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 1832. 8vo. Hosack, A., Memoir of Staphyloraphy; with cases and description of the instru- ments requisite for the operation. New York, 1833. MiiTTER, Thomas D., M.D., A Report on the Operations for Fissures of the Palatine Vault. Philadelphia, 1843. 8vo. 732. The cleft in the soft palate occurs, not very unfrequently, as an original vicious formation, confined often merely to the uvula, which is then bifid, or including the whole soft palate. It is often also connected with a cleft of larger or smaller size in the hard palate, and also with hare-lip. The consequences of this misformation in early life, are great difficulty or complete incapability of sucking, especially in the horizontal posture. The bringing up of such children is, therefore, often accompanied with the greatest difficulty, suckling being only possible when the child is held quite upright, and when the flow of the milk is assisted by pressure on the breast, or the food is in this position allowed to flow into the mouth, in very small quantities at a time. The consequences of this misformation are manifested at a later period of life, by its interference with the speech, which is more or less indistinct and unpleasant. The person so affected cannot blow out air from the mouth with any force; and fluids cannot be swallowed in the horizontal position without great difficulty. 733. Artificial palates, such as are employed in cleft of the hard palate, are ordinarily useless in this ailment; because they always produce the same interference in the articulation of tones; but very carefully made elastic obturators may in some degree lessen the difficulty (a) ; their use, therefore, may be permitted in those cases in which the union of the cleft does not succeed, or is especially impracticable {b). The cure can be (a) GeaKfe's artificial palate-curtain ; in liisand Walthek’s Journal, vol. xii. p. 655. Snell, J., Observations on the history, use, and construction of Obturators or Artificial Palates, il- lustrated by cases of recent improvement. don. Second Edition, 1828. (6) ForhowlitUe benefit is obtained ftom them^ Dieffenbach in Rust’s Magaiin,vol. xxix.p.w*- I