FRICTION-CURE. 663 uhen these symptoms have subsided, the mercury must be resumed. When salivation has commenced, many remedies are advised; as purgatives sulphur, camphor, opium, blisters, and so on but experience does not confirm their particular effect. The most suitable, however, are keeping warm, change of linen, warm bed, attention to keeping the bowels open, the use of astringent gargles for the mouth ; internally, bark, acids, espe- ciallv the phosphoric. It must not, however, be overlooked that m confirmed Lues it is necessary for its fundamental cure, th^ the mercury should be continued to incipient salivation, which should be kept up tor several weeks, as frequently that alone proves the sufficient operation ot the mercury upon the constitution. 841. In cases of very old venereal disease, in which often the modes of treatment prescribed are insufficient, several very active modes of cure have been proposed, among which may be especially reckoned, 1, the Friction and Hunger Cure; 2, the Mercurial Cure, after Weinhoud’s plan ; and, 3, Zittmann’s Decoction. 842. The Friction-Cure, long since (a) highly esteemed, has recently been brought into great repute by Louvrier (6) and Rost (c). The latter has also extended its employment to diseases not syphilitic, of which, however, a complete destruction is the foundation of the reproduc- tive processes. The mercury does not, in this treatment, operate as a specific against scrofulous, gouty, syphilitic and other diseases, but simply .as exciting the activity of the lymphatic system, by which the absorption imay go on to completion, the previous degeneracy return to the natural condition, the entirely useless deposits be got rid of, and so a perfect consent :of the organism produced. 843. This cure is indicated in syphilitic disease where disordered diges- tive organs forbid the internal use of mercury; when from the mercury a too little or too great affection of the bowels or of the whole system occurs ; iwhen the syphilis, having become a general affection, attacks the bones and tendons; when caries, exudation into the joints, hardening or disor- ganization of the different tissues are present; and when the syphilis will I not yield to the internal use of mercury: in diseases not syphilitic, in f which from mere gouty, scrofulous, or rickety causes, swellings in the I skin, glands, and bones, growth or other diseased affections are produced 4 as the result of an anomalous vegetation, and cannot be removed by other S' means, for instance, swellings of the joints, dropsy of the joints, spina ventosa, and wide-spreading ulcers : also in herpetic, leproid eruptions, har- (| dening of the testicles, of the breasts, and so on. Even in those cases a where diseases arise from simply local causes, hardening and degeneration of the cellular tissue, callous changes, carious destructions, fistulous ulcers I and the like, which on account of their unnatural condition and situation t often for years withstand every kind of treatment, even the repeated appli- « cation of the knife, or even render the latter impossible. 4 844. The friction cure is always a very severe mode of treatment, and fl for the patient, accompanied with much trouble (1). It must therefore not tt be employed on those patients who are very weakly, who have very irritable s nerves, in hysterical, hypochondriacal patients, in those who are much -K disposed to agitation or are affected with other diseases, as complaints of n) Faber, above cited. ,6) Above cited. .c) UeberdieHeilkraftdermcthodischen Queck- silbereinreibungen in sypliilitischen und nicht syphilitischen Krankheiten ; in his Magazin fiir die gesammte Heilkunde, vol. i. p. 354.