190 TREATMENT OF PSOAS to lie perfectly quiet, and the wound, being dressed every second day, “ generally united by adhesion, though sometimes otherwise, for it may discharge a little, and yet unite firmly. The abscess thus treated is as free from inflammation as it was before it was punctured. The abscess will, however, fill again, and that sometimes even rapidly. In the first cases which I attended, I punctured pretty regularly after the expiration of a fortnight, and I found in general that the abscess contain^ about one-third less of fiuid. * * * After having discharged the contents of the abscess three or four times, I found that it was not necessary, nor, indeed, easily praeticable to puncture it at the end of the fortnight, because it was so little filled and prominent.” (pp. 1.55, 6.) Astley Cooper supports Abernethy’s mode of treatment. He says:—“ Let the abscess proceed until you observe a redness or blush of the skin, and then adopt Mr. Abernethy’s plan of making a valvular opening into the part, so as to discharge the matter, and close the wound almost immediately. The danger does not arise from the quantity of matter accumulated, but from the irritation produced by the attempts of nature to close the abscess and fill the cavity by the process of adhesion. Four days after the abscess is opened violent symptoms of constitutional irritation are apt to come on, such as great depression of strength, loss of appetite, and the patient is soon reduced to the lowest extremity. It is extremely desirable to prevent the occurrence of these symptoms, and the plan of Mr. Abernethy is the best that has ever been suggested by any Surgeon with a view of preventing them.” (p. 461.) Lawrence also advocates Abernethy’s practice, as it “ gets rid of the continuance of an abscess of this kind without incurring the risk of the inconvenience” which arises when, “ as in opening a phlegmonous abscess, an incision is made and the matter let run out, and then applying a poultice over it, the access of air into the abscess produces decomposition of the pus which it contains, the matter becomes fetid, the surface of the abscess is inflamed, and the secretion from its sides becomes exceedingly altered, thin, and stinking, extremely irritating to the portion which is in contact with it. The in- flamed surface of the abscess is a source of sympathetic disturbance in other parts in the alimentary canal or in the vascular system, and thus arises fever of a difierent kind.” (p. 396.) Other writers, as Kirkland, prefer “ the tumour being suffered to break of itself, and its contents to drain gently off, through a very small aperture, which prevents the free ingress of air and violent symptoms; for, when a large tumour of this sort forms on the inside of the thigh, and breaks in a large opening, in such a manner that the air has alreadpr passage, we frequently see a violent colliquative fever succeed, that closes the scene in a very short time. But, though small openings should be obtained if possible, they too seldom secure the patient.” (p. 199.) John Pearson observes on this point:—“ Some of the older Surgeons, and the French Surgeons (of his time) in general, advise a free opening to be made, or the introduction of a seton. It hath been thought more advisable, by other practitioners, to permit the abscess to burst spontaneously. Several of the modern Surgeons recommend a very small aperture to be made, and the ulcer to be treated in a very gentle manner. My own experience is in favour of the last mode of treatment, and I have been so happy as to see it followed by a perfect cure of the disease.” (p. 103.) Dupuytren “ considers it dangerous to open symptomatic abscesses, resulting from caries of the spine, which has yielded to treatment. So to proceed is to re-excite the principal malady, and to lose all the benefit of long and active treatment. He, therefore, recommends giving up these abscesses to the mere efibrts of nature; and he follows the same practice even when all remedies have been unavailing to cure the caries.” (p. 139.) The practice I have pursued, which has been for many years past commonly followed at St. 'Thomas’s Hospital, has been either to permit the abscess to break of itself, or only to puncture it when the skin has so reddened and thinned at one point that there is no chance of its bursting being avoided. The puncture should not be a large one, nor do I think making it valvular is of any consequence, as I make no effort to produce its union. It should be of suflicient size to permit the escape of the pus, which should flow out, if it may be so said, at the pleasure of the abscess, which should, on no account, be squeezed or kneaded, to empty its cavity. If thus left to itself the pus flows slowly and the sides of the abscess gradually fall together, though without at once uniting, and accom- modate themselves to their new condition, so that ultimately the original abscess becomes only a more or less capacious sinuous cavity, which, if the disease originate in the spine, gives vent to the pus there formed, and may itself also, for a longer or shorter time, furnish the discharge. I have not generally observed the hectic symptoms which by some Surgeons are described as almost certainly occurring when large abscesses,