48 LYMPH-ABSCESS. 17. Beinl, Rust, and others, consider the nature of the so-called lymph-swelling to be an extravasation of lymph, depending on a rupture of the lymph-vessels, or on an unnatural exten.sion of their walls, and they explain the gradual sinking of the powers of the constitution and so on, which occur at the latter period of the disease, and after its bursting, by the continued loss of the lymph (a). The observations made on the fluid contained in these swellings (which Rust imagined to be only in the earlier period of the disease, transparent and colourless) have shewn that it has more of the properties of pus than of actual lymph, and Waltiier has decidedly proved that the acceptation of the term lymph-swellings in the sense just mentioned is inadmissible ; that they must be considered only as abscesses (lymph-abscesses) preceded by a stealthy, if not a sensibly perceptible, inflammatory condition, which, however, on account of the too much depressed vital activity, could not produce a plastic consistent pus, but only a secretion of a thin more or less turbid lymphatic fluid. The opinion advanced by Beinl that the strongest and most healthy subjects are commonly more subject to this disease than the weakly, that men more than females, and that, without an external injury, a general diseased con- dition is incapable of producing a lymph-abscess, is incorrect, and has been disproved by Rust. How frequently, even by writers on lymph-swellings, cold abscesses and such collections of pus as have formed at distant parts (congestion-abscess) (b), in consequence of carious destruction of the bones of the vertebral column, have been taken for lymph-swellings, and treated as such, I myself have frequently observed. Nasse (c) describes a case in which a powerful healthy young man, in consequence of an external injury, had a swelling formed on the upper part of the thigh, the contents of which, after opening, perfectly resembled lymph. The pouring out of a clean transparent fluid could not be allayed by any treatment recommended for lymph- swellings, and the patient was exposed to the danger of hectic consumption. The local use of a solution of nitrate of mercury alone brought the lymph-vessels to close. This case (which I myself saw, although only once, in passing through Halle, and con- vinced myself of the continued outflowing of clear lymph which could be increased by pressure) proves that a collection of lymph in the cellular tissue is possible, as the consequence of an actual tearing of lymph-vessels by external violence, the exudation from which ceases only by obliteration of the torn vessels. Cases of this kind are, however, undoubtedly very rare; to them alone can be applied the term li/mph-strelling in its proper sense, and therefore the above advanced opinion, “ that the cases com- monli/ spoken of as lymph-swellings are merely modifications of abscesses,” is rather confirmed than contraclicted. This opinion Langenbeck (d) has also advanced; although, he adds, that not unfrequently a swelling is observed on the elbow, which is formed sometimes from a local cause, and sometimes also without, is situated immediately on the olechranon, and contains a clear lymphatic fluid enclosed in a cyst, which deserves the name of lymph-swelling, I must yet deny this assertion, as this swelling at the elbow joint is a dropsy of the mncous bag there situate, and may be compared to the Hygroma cysticum patellare. Just as little also cani I agree with tlie opinion of Ekl (e), who considers the lymph-swelling as an expanded mucous bag in which there is a diseased secretion going on. Zembsch (/), according to Kluge, in order to accommo- date the different opinions of writers, distinguishes, 1st, the acute and chronic lymph- swelling, as idiopathic and symptomatic disease; 2nd, tlie false lymph-swelling or lymphatic abscess. [A case marked in my note-book, “ Collection of synovial fluid within the femoral sheath,” which occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital in 1839, seems to me more nearly allied (n) J. A. Schmidt,fiber den Grand dor Todflich- keit de Lympbgeschwiilstc; in Abhandlun^cu der Medic. Chirurg. Jos. Akadeinie in Wien, vol. ii. (6) A. Pauli, Hemcrkungen flber Congestions abscesse; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. vii. p. 383, vol. viii. p. 434. (c) Arcbiv fiir medicinische Erfahrung J[on Horn, Nasse, und Henke, vol. i. 1817, p. 3m- (d) As above, vol. ii. p. 197. (e) Bericht fiber die Ergebnissc; in ChimrR* Klinikum zu Lnndshut. Landshut, 1824. 4to. Ueberdu Lymphgeschwulst; In Rusts Ma- gazui, vol. xxvii. p. 1.