IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. 521 3rdly. Of the consequences, immediate and remote, of compour^fracture. The imme- diate consequences of compound fracture, should the shock of the accident not be so irreat as at once to check all attempt at reparation, and destroy the patient m a very tew hours, make their appearance sometimes within twelve liours, but more frequently about the third or fourth day, assuming the character of ^ n Si/mpathetic, si/mptomatic, or irritative fever; or, as John Hunter chooses to call it, “sympathetic inflammatory fever,” of which Abeunethv has given a concise but excellent description. “ A person,” says this able teacher (a), “ has a compound ftac- ture ; here is local injury acting on a sound constitution. He does not sleep, and doze, he soon wakes up in agitation and alarm; the pupil of the eye is contracted, that organ becoming more susceptible; his pulse is more strong, firm, or hard, more full and frequent than usual; there is diminution of the secretions, the skin is dry and hot, the urine scanty and high-coloured, the tongue dry and white, and the digestive organs disordered, and disposed to costiveness; there is much thirst; no appetite, or if the patient be inclined to food, it is for the vegetable acids. If the person be bled, the blood is slow in coagulating, the surface of the clot contracts ; in short, it has an inflammatory appearance. If any vital part is affected, there is more disturbance of the system; the pulse is more hurried and not of the same strength as before ; but the general symptoms are the same. No explanation of these symptoms is required; there is excitement of the nervous system, with increased action of the sanguiferous, accompanied with diminished secretions and disturbed digestive organs. But with these symptoms there will be no sinking or depression of strength, no consciousness of debility. Sometimes this fever is preceded by shivering or sickness, both probably arising from the state of the stomach ; but a healthy person will often be affected with neither. There appears to be in some persons a susceptibility for this fever, so that the slightest accident will occasion it; whilst others, on the contrary, show much less susceptibility under more extensive injuries.” “ These symptoms,” to use John Hunter’s expression, “ are the sympathies of the constitution with a local disease or injury, and will vary according to a vast variety of circumstances. They will vary according to the nature of the constitution, which admits of great differences, and which will include different ages ; they will vary according to the nature of the part in a state of disease, which also admits of great differences; they will vary according to the quantity of mischief done, as well as the manner of its being done; that is, whether so as to call forth immediate inflammation, as a wound; or not so immediate, as from having only killed a part; they will vary according to the situation of similar parts in the body, and they will vary according to the stage of the disease.” (p. 396.) Hunter further observes :—“ The constitutional symptoms arising from a local com- plaint may be divided into three as to time; the immediate, indefinite, and remote. Of the first, or immediate, there appears to be but one; of the second there is probably a variety, at least appearing in very different forms and at very different periods, in respect of the original cause; of the remote there is probably only one. The imme- diate I shall reckon that which is called the symptomatic fever; and what I shall reckon the second are nervous affections, as spasms, both temporary and permanent, and deli- rium. Whether the symptomatic fever, the spasms, or the delirium come first, is not certain, for often all concur or occur at the same time; but as the sympathetic fever is the most constant, and is more an universal principle, it is to be reckoned the first. And the third, which I have called remote, is what is understood by the hectic; to which may be added the symptoms of dissolution, which is the last stage of all, and mav be the consequence of the above or any other disease.” (p. 406.) In symptomatic fever, which is now under consideration. “ the symptoms,” still using Hunter’s words, “ continue more or less according to the degree of the injury, the nature and situation of parts, and the constitution ; but as they arise from a local cause, which subsides, they of course subside also. * * * The subsiding of these symptoms is the cure; and where they are simply the effects of violence the fever cures itself, there- fore the only thing necessary is to lessen its violence.” (p. 409.) ’ The sympathetic fever in compound fracture almost invariably begins to subside as suppuration commences in the wound, and gradually disappears as healthy suppuration IS established; hence it has been generally considered as “ necessary for the operation of suppuration,” an opinion which John Hunter very stoutly, though not very satisfac- tonly, combats, for it cannot be denied that, with scarcely an exception, when suppura- ‘ have preferred this account observations on the elTecU of the suppurative in- ^ONTER-s on ^unt of iU brevity. But tlie flammation on the constitution, ^^61^ ds fvader will do well to study carefully that writer’s work on inllammation -J F S