288 MODE OF CURE. hence swelling, rednass, dryness of the wound, and increased pain. Ac- cording to the severity of the wound, the constitution of the patient, and the sensibility of tlie wounded part, is tlie reaction more or less great; and in proportion to these circumstances does the Synii)athetic Fever (Fehris traumatica, Fehris injlammatoria secundaria, Lat.; Wundjieher, Germ.) come on in direct relation to tlie inflammation of the wound. Tlie inflam- mation either only attains the degree of adhesive inflammation, and pa.s.ses on, if the wounded parts be kept in close contact, to resolution and adhe- sion ; or, if the inflammation be greater, or if the parts cannot be united, it proceeds to suppuration and, under particular circumstances, even to mortification. The inflammation may have either a simple, erethetic or torpid character, according to the difference of constitution and other cir- cumstances. Just so does the nature of the fever differ according to the constitution of the patient, according to the prevailing character of the disease, and so on ; and it may even show an intermitting type. The nervous symptoms accompanying wounds are, severe pain, which is not proportioned to the inflammation in the wound, restlessness, loss of sleep, delirium, convulsions, trismus, tetanus, and so on. The causes of these symptoms are morbidly increased sensibility of the whole body or of the wounded part, wounds of nerves, aponeuroses, and tendinous parts, tying of nerves with vessels, foreign bodies or accumulated and bad pus in the wound, foul, damp, and cold air, sudden chills, great loss of blood, sympathetic irritation, especially in the bowels, and so on. 272. The cure of wounds is effected in two ways:— Hunter, Meckel (a), and others, speak of three kinds of union of divided parts; viz., by the quick union, by adhesion, and by granulation. In the quick union blood is poured out between the two divided surfaces; this coagulates, separates into its constituent parts, applies itself to the divided surfaces, and from this moment the union commences. The blood dries on the surface, forming a scab which covers the surface of the wound; and from the blood remaining beneath it the new parts are formed, the red parts being absorbed, and the coagulable lymph, from which the organs are formed, remaining. This union by coagulable fluid is effected without any increased activity of the blood- vessels, as the connecting medium is here poured out with the blood. If this, however, do not tiike place, in consequence of the blood, by contact with the external air, having either lost its vitality, or, at least, its capability of becoming organised, and, if the separa- tion have existed so long that the open mouths of the divided vessels are closed, then injlanimation takes place; coagulable lymph oozes either from the half-open mouths of the divided vessels or out of the cellular tissue, coagulates, and in it are developed the connecting vessels. The quick union takes place even when the parts, on account of the blood poured out between them, do not directly touch; in which case the superfluous blood is absorbed, the swelling diminishes, and the new vessels spread from the coa- gulable lymph and surrounding parts into the unabsorbed blood, of which the red part at last disappears. In every cure by the first imion there is always, at first, a layer of coagulated lymph upon each divided surface, and between these two sometimes a layer of blood, forming a middle layer. The union of bone, according to Meckel, takes place in the same manner; the out-poured blood being, in this case also, the base of the union, the red part is absorbed, and the remainder converted into gelatin. Meckel, however, adds, that the vessels also themselves seem to pour out the direct material of union and reparation, their tonicity being altered. This view of the process of quick union does not, however, agree with experience, which shows that the interposition of a layer of blood between the edges of a wound prevents its quick union; and when, a.s sometimes happens, a thin layer of blood does remain, by which adhesion is not completely prevented, the union does not take place before the blood h.as been absorbed, and till tlie edges of such wounds in which blood is contained are also covered with a layer of coagulalile lymph. The blood between the edges of a wound never makes anything but an apparent union, which endures, however, but for a short space of time. Often, indeed, is the blood between the edges of a wound found completely surrounded (a) Ilandbuch der patliologisclicn iVnatomie, vol.ii. partii. p. 47. I