164 QUESTION OF IDENTITY OF GONORRIICEA, &c. chancre and the urethra, or its absence; but it is very strange that he should seem to consider the simultaneous existence of gonorrhoea and chancre rare, as it is matter of daily occurrence.—j. f. s. Benjamin Bell (a) denies the identity of gonorrhoea and syphilis. He says:—“ The refusal of some patients to submit to the distress and inconveniency, the frequent result of a protracted mercurial course, and who, nevertheless, recovered from the usual symp- toms of gonorrhoea, first suggested a doubt of the two diseases being produced by the same contagion. * * * The symptoms and consequences of gonorrhoea are perfectly different from those which take place in lues venerea. Both diseases have appeared, at different periods, in the same countries ; and, in some instances, they have remained dis- tinct and uncombined for a great length of time.” (pp. 2, 3.) As to the assertion “ that gonorrhoea sometimes terminates in pox, and, therefore, that this of itself is a sufficient proof of the two affections being of the same nature,” he says, “ Were it certain that this ever happened no further evidence would be required, as a few well-marked instances w'ould be conclusive; but every unprejudiced practitioner will admit that no sufficient proofs of it have ever occurred. In order to support this opinion, data must be received which we know to be inadmissible. We must admit, that a person with chancres only communicates to another, not only every symptom of pox but of gonorrhoea, and that another, with gonorrhoea only, gives to all with whom he may have connexion, chancres with their various consequences. This ought, indeed, to be a very common occurrence, insomuch that every practitioner should be able to decide upon it with certainty, if this opinion was well founded. Instead of which, it will be admitted by all, that the one disease being produced by the other is, even in appearance, a very rare occurrence.” (pp. G, 7.) Bell subsequently observes:—“ As a further proof of the difference of the contagions of syphilis and gonorrhma it may be remarked, that no stage of pox has ever been known to induce gonorrhcea, which surely would occasionally happen if the two diseases were of the same nature. We may also remark, that, in numberless instances, people have been poxed by the matter of syphilis being by accident applied to a cut or a scratch, as often happens with surgeons in the dressing of chancres and buboes; but no one ever heard of a pox being got in this manner from the matter of gonorrhoea. It has been said that chancres may be produced by insinuating the matter of gonorrhoea beneath the skin. But experiments upon this subject are productive of such anxiety and distress, that they never have been, nor ever probably will be, repeated so frequently, as the nature of it would require.” (pp. 32, 3.) He, however, mentions some experiments made by two young gentlemen upon themselves with a view to ascertain the point in dispute. * * * By the introduction of the matter of chancres as well as of buboes into the urethra, some pain and irritation were excited, but no gonorrhoea ensued; and, by fretting the skin of the prepuce and glans with a lancet, and rubbing the parts with the matter of gonorrhoea, slight sores were produced, but they never assumed the appearance of chancres, and they healed easily without mercury.” (p. 34.) Bell flatly denies Hunter’s assertion, that at Otaheite every form of the (venereal) disease has been propagated from one root, which, most probably, was a gonorrhoea by his statement, “ when Captain Cook visited these islands, in his second voyage, we have authority for saying that gonorrhcea had not then appeared in them.” (p. 36.) Having thus given an abstract of the opinions of Hunter and Bell as to the dispute on the identity of gonorrhoea with syphilis, it only remains to show that Bell’s opinion that, for the reasons above assigned, experiments upon this subject “ never probably will be repeated so frequently as the nature of the case requires,” can no longer be main- tained, as most conclusive experiments have been most ably and numerously made by Hernandez and Ricord, by which the distinct nature of the two diseases is completely proved. Hernandez (6) had the opportunity of making his observations on galley-slaves, oyer whom he had perfect control. From these he selected three who had gonorrhoea, to furniA the necessary virus with which he experimented; and he justly observes:—“ These expt ri- ments, made on seventeen persons, are the most numerous and perhaps the most careful that have been made, and furnish important results. In five of tliese cases the cure was quick, without internal remedies, and without the ulcers having any venereal appearance. In the others, there were obstinate ulcers, some possessing quite the syphilitic appearance, accompanied with general symptoms which seemed to confirm it Surely such proofs did not exist in tlie cases I have mentioned, and yet they were regarded as decisive. Yet all depended upon known internal disorders; all the ulcers yielded to means calcu- lated to destroy these disorders, but which have no virtue in syphilis. * » • My experi- (n) Quoted at tlic head of this article, vol. i. Virus GonorrlioiqueetSyphilitique. Toulon, 1912- (6) Eiiiiai Analytiquo sur la Noniduntitc dca Quoted fVoin Uicobd.