339 VARIETIES OF GUN-SHOT INJURIES. [ balls can travel not merely round the convex surface of the walls of the j difterent cavities of our body, but even completely around their concave 337. The following general kinds of injury from shot wounds may be distinguished:— 1. The ball may not penetrate, but injure deep-lying parts in various ways, so that muscles and other soft parts may be bruised, and bones even crushed, without the skin being injured. ( Wounds by wind of the hall, or by rebound of shot.') This occurs, either because the ball has not sufficient power to penetrate, or because it strikes the body very obliquely (1). 2. The ball penetrates, but remains lodged, and the shot passage has but one opening (2). 3. The ball passes through: the shot passage has two apertures, the one by which the ball has entered, pressed in, as large or even smaller than ball, and the circumference of the other larger, outspreading, irre- larly torn, and little bruised (3). i. Tlie ball has taken off the greater part or the whole of the limb, shot-wounds are also further distinguished into simple and complicated, :ording as merely soft parts of minor importance, or vessels, nerves, 1 bone are injured. 1) The opinion that the so-called wounds from the wind of balls is produced by the ipression of the air, by the electric condition of the ball during its passage through cannon or through the air has been long known as incorrect. Recently Rust (a) , Busch (b) have again taken up wounds by the wind of balls, but have not ascribed ir operation to the pressure of the air, but to the vacuum momentarily produced by the sage of a ball of large calibre, by which a turgescence in the part takes place exter- ly towards the vacuum. This opinion, however, does not seem to me agreeable to laws of physics. “ It very often happens,” says Hennen, “ that while all is smooth and sormd to the , or there is perhaps only a slight erosion of the skin, a very serious injiuy has been jumscribed tumour, soft and pulpy to the feel, forms on the spot; the skin, at first of atural colour, gradually assumes a dusky shining hue, and either sloughs off, leaving leath a dark glossy, flabby, muscular mass, discharging tenacious bloody sanies, or ; a chain of iU-conditioned abscesses forms, which soon run into one another, and TOW deep beneath the disorganized mass of skin and muscle, if not prevented by lely evacuation.” (pp. 91, 2.) ’2) “ These appearances,” according to Guthrie, “ are by no means constant, or steongly marked. If the ball impinge with violence against a surface capable of Bring considerable resistance, the entrance will be well-marked. If the resistance Bred be nearly equal to the momentum, the ball will lodge or pass through with a 11-marked exit; but if the velocity and impulse be greatly superior to the resistance, ! exit, although not a depression, will often partake in the appearances of the entrance, ! velocity with which the ball passes through the part overcoming so instantaneously : resistance, that the laceration, which would otherwise take place in the passage of ; ball from the dense medium of the body to the rarer one of the air, does not occur.” 18.) Dr. Thomson says:—“ It is no uncommon thing for a ball in striking against the sharp ge of a bone to be split into two pieces, each of which takes a different direction, metimes it happens that one of the pieces remains in the place which it struck, while 3 other continues its course through the body. Of a ball split by the edge of the tella, I have known one half pass through at the moment of the injury, and the other main in the joint for months without its presence there being suspected. In the same anner I have known a ball divided by striking against the spine of the scapula, and ^ portion of it pass directly through the chest, from the point of impulse, whilst the tier moved along the integuments, till it reached the elbow.” (p. 37.) Similar to this the case, mentioned by Dupuytren, of “ a man who received a shot, and the ball ttenng the lower part of the right leg was split into two upon tlie sharp edge of the (a) Rust’s Magaiin, vol. vii. part Hi. p. 344. (6) Ibid, vol. x. part iii. p. 373. surface. le to the subjacent soft parts.” If the vitality of the part be entirely destroyed, “ a z 2