TREATMENT. 621 ; 766. Scorbutic ulcers are generally flat, their edges and circumference .j anlematous, swollen, and bluish ; their bottom dirty, beset with fungous granulations, and bleeds on the slightest touch. The ichor flowing from • t^lie sore is thin, mingled with blackish blood, and very stinking. The neighbouring bone is often attacked and destroyed. They usually occur on the°gums, on the calves of the legs, and thighs, either in distinct patches 4 in severe scurvy, or from other ulcers, if a general scorbutic disposition I exist. 4 767. Tlie occasional causes of scurvy are, want of oxygenated air, -# moist foggy air, bad food, sluggishness, want of exercise or too great tt exertion. These causes mostly show themselves after long sea voyages ! on the coast of the Noi'th Sea (Sea Scurvy.') The influence, however, of il similar evil influences may produce scurvy on shore in men of phlegmatic [b temperaments, who live in damp dull dwellings and feed on bad food. 5 i The land scurvy is therefore observed, especially in time of scarcity, in 4 besieged towns and the like. A condition similar to scurvy has been also ■n observed after the immoderate use of mercury. t [The land scurvy here mentioned is the chronic form of Purpura liamorrhagica of 1*1 Bateman (a), who says, that “ it appears occasionally, and in its severest and fatal 19 form, where none of these circumstances ever existed; for instance, in young persons Hi living in the country and previously enjoying good health, with all the necessaries and It comforts of life. This circumstance tends greatly to obscure the pathology of the disease; for it not only renders the operation of these alleged causes extremely . questionable, but it seems to establish an essential difference in the origin and nature i of the disorder, from that of scurvy, (the true scurvy foimerly prevalent among seamen >1 in long voyages,) to which the majority of writers have contented themselves with ■R ■ referring it. In scurvy the tenderness of the superficial vessels appears to originate a' from deficiency of nutriment, and the disease is removed by resorting to wholesome I ] I and nutritious food, especially to fresh vegetables, and acids ; while in many cases of Purpura, the same diet and medicine have been taken abundantly, without the smallest /8‘alleviation of the complaint.” (p. 110-11.)] >T 768. The cure of scorbutic ulcers requires, before everything else, the ■at removal of the scorbutic diathesis upon which they depend, by the change a of moist foggy air for warm pure air, by the use of better food, especially of fail acid fruits, by an active mode of life, with moving about in the open air, ill. Further by the use of nasturtium aquaticum, cochlearia, heccahunga. vegetable and mineral acids, alum, aromatic bitter remedies, as the calamus, 'V marsh trefoil, bark, and the like; at the same time rubbing the whole (I) body with spirituous remedies should be advised ; even washing with cold lU water, by which the parts are again endowed with their lost elasticity, and < t the coagulability of the blood is increased. U 769. Upon the ulcers themselves strong astringent remedies are to be If) applied, bark with alum, camphor, myrrh, alum in astringent decoctions, ii!; gum kino dissolved in red wine. Theden’s arquebusade water, fixed air, u charcoal with bark, myrrh, alum, storax, astringent decoctions, with acids, fi Swathing the limb on whicli the ulcer is situated with bandages moistened with strengthening remedies is of especial use. - * Gargles of bark, decoctions of oak or willow bark, of garden sage with i spirit of scurvy grass or alum, and touching with diluted muriatic or sul- ! phuric acid and honey, are the best applications against swellings and i ulcers of the gums. m b e (a) Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases. Second Edit., 1813. 8vo.