204 TREATMENT OF INFLAMED NAIL MATRIX. adverse hard skin,” objects to tlie operation, not only for its severity, but because “ it also , too frequently happens, tliat the disease returns in some one spot or other, owing to the matrix not having been wholly eradicated, which, indeed, it is often extremely difficult to do, for the shape of the toe is so bulbous, and so deformed, the texture so changed and so condensed by chronic inflammation, and the edges of the ulcer are so raised over the part to be removed, that even an anatomist cannot easily recognise the relations of the several tissues involved in the disease, or ascertain the exact extent of the substance to be excised.” Hence, “ some days after the operation the patient becomes alarmed, by feeling a slight return of his former uneasiness, on any exercise of the limb, or any pres- sure on some particular spot, generally on one of the angles of the original ulcer; and on careful examination tliere is found still a little ulceration, and a fresh production of that ungual growth already described, and indicating the persistence of some of the diseased matrix.” (pp. 246, 7.) This causes a repetition of all the suffering, and requires removal a second, or even a third time. Colles, therefore, prefers the following plan, which in a few days will induce a considerable amendment, and even a perfect cure in the course of three or four weeks;— ♦ * # « i confine the patient to bed, and direct a poultice to the toe for two or three days. I then cleanse the ulcer carefully, by directing on it, from some height, a small stream of tepid water, from a sponge. 1 next cut away as much of the loose nail as 1 can, without paining or irritating the sensitive surface around, and then I fumigate the part by means of the mercurial candle, containing hydr. sulph. ruhr. 3j., ad cerce jij. This fumigation is to be applied night and morning, and, after each, the toe should be gently enveloped in lint or linen, lightly spread with ung. spermac. In four or five days the patient will express himself considerably relieved; the discharge from the ulcer will be found of a healthy, purulent character, and the appear- ance of the whole part much more favourable. The fumigation is to be still persevered in, and all projecting portions of nail to be closely cut. I consider this latter direction as very essential, as thereby the mercurial fumes can have more free access to the surface of the ulcer. In proportion as the ulcer improves it is interesting to observe, so does the condition of the growing nail; it acquires not only its natural firm and horny consistence, but also assumes its proper horizontal direction. For some time after the general sur- face of the ulcer has been healed, there still remain small spots of ulceration, generally at the angles around some white germs of new nail; against these points the full force of the mercurial vapour should be directed. This can be effected by adding a small conical wavy tube to the funnel. I attribute much of the success of this treatment to the use of the mercurial candle in preference to fumigation in the ordinary way. During this treatment the patient must absolutely abstain from walking or even standing on the affected limb; exercise but for a single day will counterbalance aU the amendment pro- duced by a week’s rest and fumigation.” (pp. 348, 9.) Colles did not employ any con- stitutional treatment in his cases, but he thinks it may sometimes be required. I have never employed this mercurial treatment, and, therefore, only mention it on Wabdrop’s authority. Neither have I ever torn out the nail, nor dissected away the nail gland, although I admit that either is very efficient, because I believe they are hor- ■ ribly painful, and not absolutely called-for operations, and may, therefore, be avoided. The only advantage, as seems to me, resulting from their preference is, that the disease is cured rather more quickly. My own observation convinces me that cauterizing the nail gland with nitric acid is equally efficient, though not quite so speedy. It should be run quickly round the gland with a bit of stick in sufficient quantity to destroy it, other- wise a second application will certainly be needed; and, as soon as it has dried, a poultice should be applied. If successful, the nail in a day or two curls up out of the matrix, and gradually separates from the rest of its attachments; but if it do not, the acid must be applied again, and, if properly done, will not generally call for repetition.—J. F. S.] 1 For the further literature of Paronychia Maligna, see Dopuytken, De I’Ongle rentre dans les chairs; in Le9ons Orales, vol. iii. F. Lebdt, Etudes Anatomiques et Pathologiques sur I’Onglade; in Re'pertoire Ge'nferale d’Anatomie et de Physiologic Pathologique et de Clinique Chirurgicale, Paris, vol. iv. 1827, p. 225. Cooper, Astley; in London Medical and Physical Journal, April, 1827, p. 189. Froriep, Chirurg. Kupfertafeln, Plate cxcvi. cxcviii, Rynd, Fr., A. B., Observations on some of the Affections of the Fingers and Toes attended with Fungous growths; in Medlco-Chirurgical Review and Journal of Prac- tical Medicine, vol. xiv., 1831.