751 VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. )la(lder by the vagina, from ulceration of the bladder by the continual iressure of a catheter, or of a rough angular stone, from ulceration of I mucous bag, (Dieffenbach,) and the like. The fistulous opening there- bre mostly depends on loss of substance. The inconveniences are very rreat; the vagina, nymphce, labia, and the inside of the thighs, are con- ’idera'bly inflamed, excoriated, studded with pustular eruption, burn and auart from the urine escaping by the fistula and the vagina. Often a stony nass collects between the luhia and nymphce, and excites much pain ; on tccount of the patient’s continual welting and the soaking of her clothes, ler position and so on, a very offensive smell spreads about, which cannot )e avoided by any precaution, or by the most exceeding cleanliness, renders ler neighbourhood, in the highest degree troublesome and unbearable, and xanishes her to the most painful isolation. The bladder gradually loses ts capacity, and the urethra becomes narrow. 969. The diagnosis of the fistula is always easy, on account of the node of its origin and the symptoms mentioned, and is most distinctly letenuined by examination. If the forefinger be introduced into the •agina, a very large opening is most commonly found in the middle of its ront wall, from the size of a bean to two inches and more, the direction )f which is mostly transverse, rarely vertical; but of the latter at least I lave never seen an instance. According to the different size of this o^jen- ,ng it may be felt merely with the finger, or seen on examination with the tpeculum vagince, or it may be penetrated by the forefinger, or by several lingers into the bladder. With so large an opening it is usual for the fore »,)art of the bladder to protrude as a reddish bladder-like swelling into Ihe vagina or between the labia. The aperture is situated for the most )art an inch above the orifice of the urethra, but it may be higher or ower; it may correspond to the urethra, in which case the urine will be Kissed voluntarily, and escape only in part by the fistula. Stones may «cape by the fistula, and incrustations form upon the internal surface of he bladder, (.Jaeger,) as well also as in the vagina. The canal of the vagina above the fistula may be natural, or, as I have often found it, nar- I'owed by adhesions in various ways, and even entirely closed ; the neck |)f the womb is often drawn awry, nearly destroyed, and the mouth of the vomb itself grown together. 970. The prognosis in vagino-vesical fistula is always very unfavour- ible, inasmuch as the continual wetting of the fistulous edges with urine irevent it closing; this, however, must always be attempted, especially vhen the opening depends on considerable loss of substance. Although )f late the numerous attempts to cure these fistulas have presented only •ome successful cases, yet in the very sad condition in which the patient is )laced by this fistula, and in tlie inadequacy of palliative remedies l)y means )f receptacles for the urine, and so on, the further perfection of this treat- i'nent is to be considered as most highly important and to be desired. if The various urinary receptacles which have been proposed by Dzondt, as well as the r ->bturators of B.^rnes, Schmitt, Burchard, Earle, and Duges, by means of sponge k.nd el^tic flasks, by cylindrical or other shaped pessaries, or by means of a piece of t*;ut filled with air, are either of no effect or improve the condition of the patient very . ittle. I have only once succeeded by the aid of an elastic bottle, upon which a sponge rva.s fastened to retain the urine, so that in standing or walking it did not escape, and if euld be voluntarily discharged. T 971. The cure of vagino-vesical fistulas has been attempted in various jivays 1st, By drawing off the urine, and compression of the fistula-.