FRACTURES OF THE HAND- 562 '6) Ab »vecited, p. 482. (n) VON FBORiEP*sNotit2en,vol, xiv, p. 3H. fall on tlie hand, and on getting up, the elbow could be neither bent, nor > perfectly extended, the cubit projected considerably backwards, the joint had its natural form, and the arm was bent. Although an apparatus of ' splints was applied for many months, yet the same appearances continued. Brassand and Kuiiniioltz (a) have noticed between the cubit and the a pulley of the upper arm bone, a hard somewhat movable body, a><aii»|is whicli the cubit struck in bending. In reference to the treatment of such | case, Cooper is doubtful whether it will have a satisfactorj’- result; for*^ he supposes that the broken coronoid process unites only by ligamentous :■ substance. Cooper found, in a corpse, an example of broken coronoid process united by ligament, and freely moving on the cubit; the sigmoiifl^ cavity was also so changed, that in straightening of the arm backward^: it is pulled over the condyle of the upper arm-bone. JiEGER (6) saw an imperfect fracture of the coronoid process, a deep fissure in its j articular surface with considerable effusion of blood into the joints. XIV.—OF FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE HAND. 663. The Bones of the Wrist {Fractura Carpi, Lat.; Bruch der Knochen s der Handwurzel, Germ.; Fracture du Carpe, Fr.) can only be broken by >• great violence, acting directly upon them, and the fracture is always accom- panied with crushing and wounding of the soft parts, by which great iiiflam- , mation, mortification, nervous symptoms, or destructive suppuration niavbe » produced. These cases require the general treatment of compound frac-. tures, and amputation, immediate or subsequent, may be necessary. 664. Fracture of the Mid-hand bones {Fractura Metacarpi, Lat; Bruch der Mittelhandknochen, Ger.; Fracture du Mctacarpe, Fr.) Ls also,^ for the most part, accompanied with crushing and bruising; the fifth bone is . most frequently broken. Slight irregularity and crepitation is always' readily observed. When the broken ends have been pressed into their' place, a compress and a pasteboard splint is to be laid on the back of the hand, along the broken bone, and the whole hand put, with the palm down-i wards, on a flat piece of wood, and there fastened wdth a circular bandage,:- passing from the tips of the fingers to the wrist. 665. In Fracture of the Finger-bones, after setting, the finger is to be: rolled with a narrow bandage, and fastened to a small splint, or the hand laid on a flat board, to which it should be fastened with a circular bandage. If these fractures be accompanied with so much crushing that there seemsi no possibility of preserving the parts, amputation should be at once per- j formed. j XV.—OF FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-BONE. , (^Fractura Femoris, Lat.; Bruch des Schenkelbeines, Germ.; Fracture du Femur, Fr.) | 666. Fracture of the Thigh-bone, is distinguished as A. Fracture of the Neck, and b. Fracture of the Body ; and in the latter it may occur in the upper middle or lower third. A.—OF FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE THIGH-BONE. Sabatier, Sur la Fracture du Col du Femur; en Mem. de I’Acad. de Chirurg.,' ^ vol. iv.