LACERATED, AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. 333 cutting through half-divided parts, and so on, must only be und^taken (as it is evident from what has been said) for the removal of foreign bodies, or to effect the stanching of blood ; or, in parts of an unyielding texture, to prevent the strangulation of deep-seated structures. And, in like man- ner, the introduction of a seton, which was formerly so common, is now re- stricted to those cases where the walls of the fistulous passage are become callous. Compare sec. 66. III.—OF TORN OR LACERATED, AND BRUISED OR CONTUSED WOUNDS. ( Vulnera lacerata et contusa, Lat.; Gerissene und Gequetschte IVunden, Germ.; Plaies contuses et ddchirdes, Fr.) 330. Torn Wounds are those in which parts are subjected to the greatest degree of stretching before they actually separate ; Bruised Wounds such as are produced by blunt instruments. 331. These wounds agree with each other in the disturbance effected in the vitality of the divided parts, by severe bruising, stretching, and tearing. Their form and surface is always irregular; their edges are uneven and hang down in flaps; whole pieces may be torn off the body. In con- sequence of the bruising and stretching the parts lose their sensibility and irritability; therefore, at first these wounds smart little, and their edges do not retract. They are accompanied with little and frequently with no bleeding, even when large vessels are injured ; but much swelling, pain, in- flammation and fever soon take place after these injuries. Very frequently they are accompanied with severe shock, which will be presently con- sidered in Gun-shot Wounds. The inflammation may quickly run into gangrene, which spreads the more speedily in proportion as the surrounding parts have suffered more severely from the shock. Nervous symptoms commonly take place in these wounds, but especially in those which are torn. The suppuration may become exhausting. 332. Only in wounds without much bruising or tearing can union be attempted ; the edges of the wound are then to be brought together with sticking plaster, but without using any force for that purpose. Generally only the bottom of the wound will partially hold together, and the rest unites by suppuration and granulation. Severely bruised and torn wounds, which heal only by suppuration, must be lightly covered with charpie, confined with strips of sticking plaster, or with a loosely applied bandage. The other treatment, both general and local, must be strictly antiphlo- gistic. From the first, cold fomentations must be constantly employed ; and general bleeding, with the repeated application of leeches if the inflammation be great. If much swelling and tension occur, warm, 'ftening poultices should be employed, and when suppuration comes on, the wound must be treated according to the previous rules. The removal of foreign bodies, with which these wounds are frequently complicated, requires especial attention. As to the needfulness of enlarging the wound, as to its complication with broken bones, and the necessity for amputation, what is said in refer- "ence to these points in gun-shot wounds will apply here. [When as occasionally happens, large pieces of skin are torn or stripped down from me ^rts beneath, it becomes an anxious point with the surgeon to satisfy himself as to What may be the expected result.