589 TREATMENT BY RUBBING, PRESSURE. , ununited ends. The fracture was of the upper arm, had happened ten months pre- I viously, and been kept in splints six weeks, after which it seemed to have united, but i in a few days’ time was again broken, whilst the woman followed her usual occupation. The splints were reapplied, but without benefit, and afterwards two setons, at some .1 interval of time apart, were passed by the side of the ununited bone, but not between its ends, and worn for some time, but no union resulted. It w^ then determined to j cut down and saw oft' the ends of the fracture, and when the incision was made for this I purpose, the upper end of the bone was found covered with cartilage, and the lower sur- li rounded with a sort of capsule, containing several loose pieces of bone. These were II removed and tlie ends of the fracture sawn off; suppuration continued for some time, |i and she left the house at the end of two months, the wound not having scarred, and no i: fixing of the fracture having occurred. Some time after an abscess formed nearer the < elbow, and several small pieces of bone have voided by it, and continue so to do. At ■I present, eight months after the operation, there is not any union.—J. F. S.] 714. According to the variety of the cause of unnatural joints, the mode ‘ of treatment must vary, to prevent their occurrence. If, however, they 1 already be formed, their cure is only possible by the broken ends, which J are covered with cartilage, being put in the condition of a recent division, s that is, by producing in them a suitable degree of inflammation, which i is sought to be effected hy rubbing the fractured ends against each other, ( by an apparatus of pressure, by the application of caustic, by sawing off s the ends, and by the introduction of a seton. .] [John Hunter proposes a different method from either of these. He says:—“ In this case it is necessary to lay open the new cavity and irritate the ends of the bones, and 13 then, by keeping them in position, bony union will often take place. It has been recom- is mended to saw off the ends of the bones; but all that seems necessary is, to irritate 13 them sufllciently to excite a fresh inflammation.” (p. 5^5.) He does not, however, t; mention any examples in which either of these modes of practice was successful. ] ’ 715. Rubbing the fractured ends together, {Exasperatio, Lat.; Reibung V der Bruchfidchen gegen einander, Germ. ; Frottement des extremites d’une n fracture, Fr.,) and subsequently fixing them with a suitable apparatus, .1 can only be advantageous during the establishment of the unnatural joint, X because afterwards it can seldom produce a sufficient degree of inflam- c mation (1). With the same object it has also been attempted to fix the r broken ends by tightly-fitting bandages, for the purpose of exciting inflam- fi mation by the patient’s standing and walking (2). ] [(1) Rubbing the ends of the bone together is at least as old as Celsus (a), as quoted I by Oppenheim. “ Si quando vero ossa non conferbueruut, quia ssepe soluta, ssepe mota a sunt, in aperto deinde curatio est; possunt enim coire. Si vetustas occupavit, mem- n brum extendendum est, ut aliquid laedatur; ossa inter se manu dividenda, ut concur- (1 rendo exasperentur, et si quid pingue est, eradatur, totumq^ue id quasi recens fiat, magna oj tamen cura habita, ne nervi musculive Isedantur.” Lib. viii. c. x. sect. vii. 1 Boyer considers that this coarse and uncertain practice often destroys a callus when ^ first forming, which by longer continued rest and contentive bandaging might have 3 effected a firm union. Cittadini’s case (6 ) of a false joint in the thigh-bone cured by. •c violently rubbing together the fractured ends and by the subsequent application of a con- »t tentive bandage, can scarcely be considered to support this practice, as the fracture was ;[ only two months old; and, as is well known, many cases unite after as long or longer h period of seeming want of union, as completely as under the most favourable circum- u stances.”—J. F. S.] ) (2) In cases of this kind 1 have covered the limb with compresses, and over these q applied wet pasteboard splints, so as to enclose it completely; and then employed the usual S' swathing, with Scultetus’s bandage, and the common splints with chafiF pads and v, having made the apparatus sufliciently tight, have left it for a long while. ’ r 716. The use of Pressure for the cure of artificial joints rests partly I on the close coaptation of the broken ends, and the preservation of com- plete quiet, and partly on the excitement of a due degree of inflammation, (a) Do Medecina. (6) In Omodei Annali Universali do Milana, vol. jtxxvii. p. dlS, 1S26, j