TREATMENT OF ANCHYLOSIS. 247 bone, have been mentioned by tlie older writers; and of late, Chuvei.hieu (a) mentions the case of an old woman who had anchylosis of the right condyle of this bone, the result of a blow received when a child. In these cases the greater part, if not the whole, of the articular surfaces are removed, and the cancellated structure seems continuous from the one to the other bone. Other kinds of anchylosis are mentioned, as where bones^ are fractured into joints; but, so far as my observation has gone, 1 have not noticed this fact. It is quite true that often when a fracture extends into a joint, the motions of the latter are destroyed, but this generally depends on the displacement of the joint surfaces. Anchjdosis is also said to occur when, from any cause, a limb has been kept in one position for several years, and the attitudal penances of the Indian fakirs have been quoted as examples; I presume, however, that in these cases there is not union of the joint surfaces, and that the fixation of the joint simply depends on the rigidity which the muscles have acquired from being long retained in the same position, instances of which, though in minor de- gree, are of daily occurrence, in the stiffness of uninjured joints which have been long kept in one posture during the cure of fracture, and to restore their perfect freedom of motion is often a very tedious process, and occasionally even not to be effected. As regards the treatment of anchylosis, if it be of the soft or ligamento-fibrous kind, attempts for its relief may be made either by passive motion or by the use of a hinge- splint, the hinge of which is to be placed in the bend of the joint, and its two parts ban- daged to the corresponding members of the limb, which is very slowly to be moved, two or three eighths of an inch daily, as the patient can bear it, by means of an iron rod, each end of which is provided with a male screw acting in a female screw, sunk in a movable but shorter rod attached to each portion of the splint; or passive flexion may be performed frequently during the day with the hand alone. In employing either method, however, special care must be taken to relieve the stress on the joint by taking off the apparatus, or to leave off passive motion, whenever pain occurs in the joint, as that indicates at least a disposition to inflammation, which, if increased, may be produc- tive of very serious consequences. As adjuncts to these immediate remedies, covering the joint with warm brewer’s grains, or friction, may be employed to promote relaxation ; but, if pain be excited by either, it must not be persisted in.—j. f. s. Vei,peau (6) has considered ably, and at great length, the treatment of complete anchylosis in reference to the three modes proposed for its relief, viz., 1st, the cutting out a wedge-shaped piece of bone; 2ndly, the establishment of a false joint; 3rdly, the violent and sudden rupture of the anchylosis. The ^rs< operation was proposed by Barton (c), one of the surgeons to the Pennsyl- vania Hospital, Philadelphia, U.S., performed a bold and successful operation for the relief of an anchylosed hip, in a young sailor who had fallen down a ship’s hold, and had not any surgical assistance for seven months. The injured thigh, which was the right, was bent, with the knee drawn across the left femur ; the outer edge of the foot was placed forwards, and the sole turned outwards, which circumstances led to the presumption of dislocation; but there was so much swelling and so great pain on making any attempt to discover it, that it was left alone. After these symptoms had subsided the limb was put in an apparatus for some weeks, but no relief was obtained, and anchylosis took place. After the lapse of a year Barton determined to attempt an artificial joint, for which pur- p<^ he made in the upper part of the thigh an incision six or seven inches long, with its middle corresponding to the great trochanter. A second incision was made across the centre of the former at right angles, and four or five inches in length. The cuts were continued down to the bone, so as to expose its front and hind part between the great and little trochanter, after which the bone was sawn through between the great trochanter and the neck. The limb was then readily restored to its natural position, and found to be only half an inch shorter than the other. The case did extremely well, and, at the end of four months, the patient could walk a considerable distance, and he could’by that time carry the foot twenty-four inches forwards, twenty-six backwards, twenty laterally and rotated it six inches inwards or outwards. The same operation was performed a second time (d), with success, by Barton, on a young physician, but on the lower part o the thigh, for anchylosis of the knee; and subsequently by Gibson of Philadelnhia also in anchylosis of the knee. ^ ’ The second operation consists “ in laying bare the bone, and sawing it in such a wnv to interrupt its continuity; and, for the purpose of preyenting union, it must be Si ,, 4'>, “s? *•«!.- W.1 (ti) Archiv. Gjn. do Med., ibsS, p. 337. as