719 NATURAL CURE. id lower part of the intestine protrude at once tliere are two pro- Sions, and tl.e stools are discharged from the middle of the upper end of fhdestine From this protrusion often arise very painful draggings in le beUy, which prevent the patient keeping himself upright, and compel m to bend the upper part of his body almost horizontally forwards. In US complication of artificial amcs, the symptoms are always more severe, o-estion is highly affected, wasting makes quick progress, and leads to ^irasmiis, if the local relations of the parts be not changed. 917. Ffficular fistula and artificial anus may be consequence of pene- •atino- wounds of tlie belly, accompanied with injury of the intestine or ith a protrusion which runs on to gangrene, also of gangrenous ruptures, f abscesses, of foreign bodies in the intestinal canal, and so on, by which ther only one part of the wall of an intestine, or an entire coil of intes- ne is destroyed, in which case adhesion with the peritoneum takes place, ; the circumference of the destroyed gut, and the effusion of stools into le cavity of the belly is prevented. [Teale gives in his essay a very good tabular account of cases of artificial anus .‘suiting from these various causes.] 918. Upon the different position and state of the upper and lower por- ous of the intestine in artificial anus depends, whether the cure can be ffected merely by the natural powers, or by the simultaneous assistance of rt, or only by the intervention of an operation. The destroyed intestine, jgether with the corresponding part of the peritoneum, to which it dheres, retracts into the belly, where it forms a funnel-like cavity, which, 1 proportion as it enlarges, directs the passage of the stools from the pper end of the intestine into the lower. This, however, cannot happen 1 artificial anus, which forms after penetrating wounds of the belly, after Id umbilical and ventral ruptures, when either the injured gut heals up dth the edges of the outer wound, or the hernial sac becomes firmly dherent with the aponeurosis and abdominal coverings, and the extensible ellular tissue, which surrounds it in other ruptures, is deficient, conse- uently the adherent piece of intestine cannot retract into the belly ufRciently to form the funnel-like cavity by which the communication of he two ends of the intestine is produced. The cure of artificial anus in his way most readily occurs, when only part of the wall of the intestine is estroyed; but when both ends of the gut, between which a coil has een destroyed, are so connected and held by the mesentery, that they lie lore or less parallel, and form an acute angle, a projecting partition is hereby formed which prevents the communication between the upper and 3wer ends of the intestine. If the projection of this partition cannot be emoved by the retraction of the pieces of the bowel, the restoration of he natural passage of the stools is possible by destroying this partition. The retraction of the piece of intestine specially depends on the movements of le bowel and the drag^ng of the mesentery, which, stretched like a cord from the ack of the partition projecting between the openings of both portions of intestine to le spine, is always striving to retract the piece of adherent bowel. Thus is easily seen le effect which the recumbent posture and motion have upon the cure of artificial anus )irpuYTBEN Qa) had two cases in which, by this dragging, the adhesions of the intestinai ortions were tom through, and effusion of faeculent matter into the cavity of the belly aused. Examination after death of persons who have died of other diseases many ears after the cure of artificial anus either by nature or art, shows the intestine either onnected by a fibro-cellular band with the place of the artificial anus, or these (a) Lerons Orales.