DISLOCATION 798 derable opposition in the powerful contraction of the muscles, so is it in no dislocation of greater consequence than in this, to lessen these contrac- tions by such remedies as effect relaxation in the whole organism. The patient should be bled according to liis constitution, should be put in ; a warm bath, and every ten minutes a grain of tartar emetic given till 1 waMsea ensues. It must, however, be determined according to the patient’s » condition, whether previous to the use of these means, an attempt at reduc- - tion should be made, and if this attempt fail, then to resort to these I remedies. 1073. The reduction itself consists in proper extension and counts- iJ extension, which is effected either by assistants or by means of pulleys. ^ Of the former practice in general the French, and of the latter the Eng- . lish Surgeons speak in favour. I myself also consider the latter the most tj certain and most suitable, especially if the dislocation be already of long ; standing. 1074. In extension and counter-extension by assistants, we proceed in i| the following manner ; the patient lies on a table covered with a mattress; J a handtowel folded together (about four fingers wide) is to be placed I with its middle on the front of the foot, above the ankle, previously well i covered with linen or wool, carried backwards and tied ; and its ends given t to an assistant. A similar towel is to be applied on the inner side of the s sound thigh, also previously defended properly against pressure with a i roller, and the one end is to be carried over the flank, the other outwards i over the buttock, where the ends are tied and given to an assistant. For r the purpose of fixing the pelvis still more firmly, a folded cloth is to be ^ carried round it, between the crest of the hip-bone and the trochanter, the fj ends of which are to be tied together on the sound side, and given to an li assistant. The number of assistants must be equal at the points of exten- sion and counter-extension. The practitioner places himself on the outside i| of the dislocated thigh, and directs the extension. f In dislocation outwards and upwards, the extension must be made ?i obliquely from without inwards and a little from behind forwards. When i it is sufficiently advanced, the practitioner must witli both hands press the • trochanter downwards and backwards, in order to thrust the head of the • bone back into tlie socket. In dislocation imoards and upioards extension i| must first be made in the direction outwards, the practitioner then places » both his hands upon the upper inner part of the thigh, and presses it t upwards and outwards, whilst the assistants, without giving up the exten- •h sion, incline the lower part of the limb inwards. In dislocation upwards t and inwards, the extension must be made nearly m the axis of the body, . and the head of the thigh-bone pressed downwards and outwards. In the dislocation backwards and doiomvards, in which Boyer (o) states that it is probably only a secondary displacement in the dislocation upwards and 1] outwards, the head of the bone must be first brought to its previous sitaa- • tion, and then treated as a dislocation upwards and outwards (b). 1075. Wattmann, Kluge, and Rust have proposed methods of re- ■ placement, in which, by diminution of the muscular contraction, and by rubbing the bones, a less outlay of power is required. 1076. According to Wattman’s(c) jdan, the patient, lying on his - back, is to be merely fixed by resting the healthy limb against the bed- Cfi) Above cited, p. 288. Cc) Uebcr Verrenkung am Huftgclenke und (6) Ibid., p. 302. Einrichtung. Wien, IS.’G ; witli a copper-plate.