670 TREATMENT of potash in the different forms of the general venereal disease, and in doubtful case*, with remarkable success. The iodine tincture, the hydriodic acid and iodine strong have been used; the hydriodide of potash, however, with especial success. According to Wallace, two, three, or four table-spoonfuls, and according to HACKEn(a) eight or nine spoonfuls daily are given, of a mixture composed of hydriodide of potash two drams, and distilled water eight ounces. Its operations generally are increase of the vital activity, cheerfulness, increased appetite, increase of flesh, brighter colour of the skin, return of sleep, greater activity of the excreting organs ; sometimes diarrhoea and colic; ill one case salivation occurred {b). The hydriodide of potash is especially efficient in secondary syphilis, with increase of substance particularly in the bones and skin. Hacker observed in eleven cases that there was always remarkably quick im. provement, but not proportionately quick cure. The treatment must often be continued for more than two months. According to Evers, the urine is to be tested during the cure with sulphuric acid, with solution of starch or of chlorate of lime. [(1) Forster gives some cases (c) of syphilis cured by the conjoined use of chloride of gold and soda, and observes, “ in all these cases and in some which have since oc- curred, the only evident etfect of this remedy was, the perspiration, which gradually diminished in quantity as the system became accustomed to the stimulus. In only one case was any dressing but dry lint applied, and this difference did not seem to be influ- ential.” The form of preparation of this remedy was the following:—“ Dissolve ninety- six grains of pure gold in nitro-muriatic acid ; evaporate and crystallize ; dissolve the crystals of the chloride of gold obtained, in pure water; add thirty grains of decrepi- tated chloride of soda. Evaporate the solution and crystallize. The salt is slightly deliquescent, and must therefore be kept in a stopped phial.” 857. Ill England, however, the treatment without mercury, formerly re- stricted to the so-called pseudo-.syphilitic diseases, has been extended to all syphilitic affections, and this has been continued and mercury discarded for more than eighteen years in the greater number of the military hospitals, and by many of the most distinguished civil practitioners (1). The mode of treatment is the following : In primary syphilitic sores, as long as their inflammatory^ character con- tinues local, and in severe inflammation general blood-letting must be em- ployed, especially in phimosis and paraphimosis ; the patient must preserve the strictest quiet, and be continually in the horizontal posture ; he must use purging neutral salts and strict antiphlogistic diet. The local treat- ment of the ulcer is to be guided only according to its special condition and not with reference to a specific contagion. In painful sores with everted, hard, irregular edges, and scabs, softening anodyne fomentations and applications must be used two or three times a day ; and after these symptoms have subsided, solutions of lead, of sulphate of zinc and copper, lime water, and so on. In phagedenic and gangrenous sores, whilst inflam- mation exists, bleeding must be employed with strict antiphlogistic diet, softening anodyne applications, afterwards solutions of lunar caustic, di- luted sulphuric acid, tincture of myrrh, turpentine and similar remedies, in which the frequent change of the remedies specially promotes the healing, and very much seems to depend on keeping the dressings moisU In indolent ulcers more stimulating remedies must be employed. By this treatment all ulcers of the generative parts may, without exception, be healed in a short time. The dispersion of buboes is to be promoted by a compressing bandage, and in their painful state they must be treated by the frequent application of leeches. If suppuration occur, the abscess must be opened with caustic, and the wound afterwards treated as a primary sore. Secondary symptoms, when occurring after the just-mentioned treatment, (a) IIackeb; in Summarium, u. s. w., vol. viii. (6) Hultock ; in Edinb. Mcd.andSurg. Joa™-* part vii. 1S36. ISd,. (c) Lancet, 1829-30. vol. ii. p. o90.