395 WITH IMPRESSION AND SPLINTERING. ^ i unshattered edge of the cranimi, and is either simply jagged, or is divided into two or , j more distinct parts, forming with each other various angles, mfluen^d in their acute- r] ness by the projectile force, the distance, obliquity, &c., &c. It not unfrequently happens i; tliat a perfect division of the ball takes place, and the two distinct masses lodge, or one !. lodges and the other flies off, or else it takes its course through a different set of parts, t or imbeds itself in a different spot from that where it originally struck. In all these ^ cases, the removal of extraneous matters, the extraction of the fractured portions, if :i tliey lie loose, and the elevation of the depressions, where it can be done without the H intliction of additional violence, are, of course, the first steps to be taken; but instances i (particularly on tlie field) will occur, where this cannot be done. The grand and lead- j ing point to be kept in view, in all cases, is the great tendency of the brain and its F; membranes to inflammation, the uncertain period at which it may occur, and the very tj doubtful consequences which may succeed its occurrence. So irregular, however, and I as it were so capricious is nature, that, whilst the slightest causes produce inflammation L in its most violent and aggravated forms, extensive injuries, fracture, depression, and j even permanent compression from lodgment of balls, have been followed by no such £ consequences.” (pp. 285, 6.)] i Dr. Cunningham of Hailsham relates (a) the case of a lad of fourteen years, who, hy m the bursting of a pistol which he was firing, received its breech in his head. The wound \ was of a circular form, within three lines of the left superciliary ridge, and a correspond- I ing piece of the frontal hone was driven, without fracturing beyond its edge, or injuring the surrounding integument. A table-spoonful of brain had escaped; he was bleeding profusely, and in a state of collapse. Careful probing could not reach any foreign body; he was therefore merely kept very quiet, and saturnine lotions applied to the forehead. On the following day slight bleeding continued; he had had a convulsion during the night. He lies perfectly quiet, says he is in no pain, but sleepy. An aperient was given, which freely moved his bowels. On the third day his pulse was not so compres- sible, but variable; the skin hot, and cheeks flushed, but otherwise much the same. Puts out his tongue when asked to do so, but answers no questions. The wound is filled with coagulum. Cold lead wash and bread poultice applied, and fever-mixture given. He was relieved of the feverish symptoms next day, and rather more sensible. In the course of a few days the clot was thrown off, and a free discharge of pus followed, which gradually lessened, and the wound appeared to heal as fast as possible. His strength seemed gradually returning; the pulse became more healthy; he answered questions, and could see around him very well. On being asked where he felt pain, he put his hand to the back of his head, but would not raise it up. This state continued to the twenty-second day, when he appeared rather suddenly to be sinking; on the following d^ he was perfectly comatose, and on the twenty fourth after the accident he died. “ On removing the upper part of the cranium the wound of the brain was found to have perfectly healed. The dura mater adhered all round the aperture in the skull, which had diminished to half its original size, so that at first I began to think my diagnosis had been incorrect; hut when I reached the ventricles, I perceived the trace of a foreign body; a little further there was a good deal of disorganization from the formation of pus, and resting against the occipital bone and over the tentorium lay the breech of the pistol, an iron screw weighing nine drachms.” (p. 559.) This is a very interesting case as shewing the facility with which a severe wound of the brain may be repaired, as well as the time which may be occupied by that process. Its result is that usually occurring at a more or less early period after the lod^ent of foreign bodies in the skull. I recollect Astley Cooper used to mention, in his lectures on gun-shot Avounds, an instance of the lodgment of a ball in the frontal sinuses of a nobleman who was shot in a duel. The hall was left, for what reason I do not remember, and it continued quiet for some months, after which it irritated the bone, which became carious, and gradually made its way through the nostrils, and through the bony palate into the mouth, and in making its escape wounded the palatine artery from which there was a free bleeding. I think the patient recovered.—j. f. s. ° Another, and still more remarkable, instance of the lodgment of a foreign body in the •ftontal sinuses, which subsequently began to make its way out, is mentioned by Dr. 'O Callaghan (6). An officer in our Indian army received, by the bursting of his ow mg-piece, on 22nd Jan. 1828, a circular wound, about an inch in diameter, above . the n^al process of the frontal bone, the outer table of which was destroyed. He Avas knocked down by the blow, but rose immediately without assistance, and walked to a ■ neighbounng cottage, where the wound continued bleeding for several hours, and pro- lauced faintness approaching to delirium. On the following day, the surrounding parts (a) Uncet, 1827-28, vol. ii. (6) Dublin Medical Press, 1845, p. 82.