370 HYDROPHOBIA. and shrink under the bed-clothes in the most dreadful fear.” (p. 1.32.) The first symp- tom noticed in the Duke of Richmond was “ early in the morning of the 25th of August, when his valet found him alarmed at the appearance of some trees, which were near a window of the room where he slept, and which he insisted were jK'ople looking in.” Lawrence notices a remarkable peculiarity in the delirium of hydrophobia:—« Tlie natient is pursued by a thousand phantoms that intrude themselves upon his mind ; he holds conversations with imaginary persons ; he fancies himself surrounded with diffi. culties, and in the greatest distress. These thoughts seem to pass through his mind with wonderful rapidity, and to keep him in a state of the greatest distress, unlc-ss he is quickly spoken to or addressed by his name, and then, in a moment, the charm is broken; every phantom of imagination disappears, and at once he begins to talk as calmly and as connectedly as in perfect health.” (p. G20.) (5) The tenacity of the spittle observed in dogs, is generally observed in man; and, more commonly than otherwise, he is spitting continually in every direction, as I have several times seen. A^ouatt justly observes, that the patient “ is sadly distressed by it, force* it out with the greatest violence, and in his attempts so to do, utters the falsely supposed bark of a dog.” (p. 13G.) (6) “ The duration of the disease,” says Eleiotson. “ when distinctly formed, gene- rally varies from rather less than twenty-four hours to six or seven days. I have had two patients with it, both little girls, and each died in less than twenty-four hours; the present patient died in rather less than six-and-thirty. The difference does not depend upon age ; because two American cases are recorded, the one of a person under four, the other of a person seventy-three years old, who each lived six or seven days. The ' greater number, however, die on the second, third, or, at the latest, the fourth day. The suddenness of the present death was nothing more than has been frequently obsen-ed. Patients sink in general at last very rapidly, and often die before it is expected.” (p. 290.) (7) Meade observes :—“ When the symptoms are maniacal, the strength of the muscles . is prodigious; these acting, indeed, with a convulsive force so great that I have seen a i case, in which a man tied down in bed with strong cords broke them alt at once by one • effort, and immediately died paralytic.” (p. 136.) I remember also a case some years • since, in which a patient labouring under hydrophobia, rushed through his attendants, . and ran out in his shirt, with the blood streaming from his arm, into the open air, a ; distance of a couple of hundred yards, before he could be overtaken, and died immedi- - ately on being put to bed —j. f. b. Eli.totson makes a most important observation, as to the possibility of hydrophobia i proceeding to a certain stage and then subsiding. “ Usually,” says he, “ I believe, there = are symptoms of weariness, general indisposition, dizziness, chills, and flushes, sometime* *; a pain has been felt in the bitten part. I think it very possible, from an occurrenee r r which happened in my own practice, that these symptoms may go no further; that the t disease, if I may so speak, may go off. Two little girls, standing at their father’s door, rj* were bitten by the same dog; a strange dog passing snapped at both of them, aud bit them both in the face. She who was bitten the second, became hydrophobic and died. 4)- The other, at exactly the same time, experienced the same premonitory symptoms »* •<$- her sister, heaviness and general indisposition; but they all went off.” (p. 290.) Doi-s -ij not this tend to confirm Meade’s observation:—“ Neither will it seem strange that a pobon it so different in its force, and so alterable by many circumstances, should in some subject* d produce symptoms of the same convulsive'kind, yet not to such a degree as to hinder - deglutition, and these, too, only at particular times. A soldier of a strong habit of body came p to me not long since, who once a month was seized with a great anxiety, palpitation of the heart, and difficult)' of breathing. He had been bitten by a mad dog about six week* • before he began to complain. By bleeding, cold bathing, the powder of lichen with pepper, and volatile medicines, during the oppression, the fits were every month less - violent, and at last quite left him.” (p. 151.) _ _ Dr. J. L. Babdsley (a) divides hydrophobia into three periods, viz., the stage of delitescence, the stage of recrudescence, and the stage of spasm. In the delitescent stage “ there are generally few symptoms to be obsen'ed, except such as are usually foimd to occur from the bite of the most healthy animal. * * * In most cases, however, pam has been felt in the cicatrix a considerable time after the accident; but such a feeling « so frequent in the seat of wounds recently healed, that its occasional presence after the bite of mad animals ought not perhaps to be considered as anything singular or fhar*^ teristic. ’•' * * In the period which intervenes between the healing of the wound and the second stage, little satisfactory has been observed.” (’Phis stage is called by A the stage of incubation). In the recrndescent stagu, “at first a pain is perceived in in* (o) Quoted at head of Article.