734 SPASMODIC CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS AND end of tlie tliird or fourth week, if the cure be long protracted, a newt J ligature nuist be tied to the old one and drawn through. Usually, afteM I the partition is cut througli by the thread, there remains a little\-left ■, i wliich still suppurates for some time, and heals by the application of soidm » dry lint to the suppurating part. ■ 941. As to the preference of cutting or tymg, the latter mode is usually , i accompanied with little or no pain; the one indeed is longer, but the< » patient may go about his business, no bleeding is to be feared, and it may, i: be employed when the fistula is very high. The operation on rectal j { fistula by ligature has, therefore, considerable preference and is especially, ) indicated in cases, where the fistulous orifice is high up, where the< | haemorrhoidal vessels are very large, and in persons who are subject to a, | habitual diarrhcea. Many Surgeons, indeed, dispute the necessity of«( ! dressing after cutting; but experience contradicts this opinion, and dress-K. t ing is necessary throughout, if there be bleeding. On the contrary, in i ; rectal fistula the preference is given to the operation by cutting, when * | the internal opening is not very high, when several neighbouring passaged |j exist, a considerable exposure of the rectum is present and the exter^i] | openings are distant from the anus. Mention must be made of the propositions for compressing rectal fistulas by the intro- > duction of tubes into the rectum (a), or by a cylinder of linen stuffed with charpie (A). 942. In the externally blind fistulas, if the bottom of the fistula can t be ascertained by the appearances already mentioned, {par. 927,) it raay.j be cut into externally, and then treated as complete fistula. [SPASMODIC CONTRACTION OF THE ANUS, AND ANAL FISSURE& This would seem to be the most convenient place to treat of this subject, which was m t first clearly described by Boyer (c), and afterwards by Dupuytren (rf), and subse-*- I quently by Brodie (e). Boyer does not consider the “ rhagades on fissures ” mentioned by Lemonnizr as k i the fissures of which he treats, as they neither originate in the same causes, nor are s i cured by the same treatment. According to Boyer, “ Adults seem to be almost excln- > > sively subject to this disease. I have never seen it,” says he, “ in children nor in young r persons. The greater number of those attacked with it have been between twenty-five and rf i forty years of age ; some even above it, and a single person was sixty years old. No *■ class of society is exempt from it; both sexes are alike liable to it; but females perhaps a i more frequently than men. The characteristic of fissure is a fixed pain at one spot of < i the circu^erence of the anus. This is always worse whilst passing the stools, but it i gradually subsides afterwards. The m. sphincter ani is so contracted that the introdne- r I tion of the finger, of a bougie, or canula is very difficult and extremely painful. The k | causes of this affection are very obscure. 1 have only observed that in many persopila j it has been preceded by haemorrhoidal swelling, and that in some persons piles had < i been previously cut off. The disease commences insensibly ; the voidance of the stools o i is attended with heat and smarting; some hours after the evacuation the troublesome • i pain ceases ; the patient is believed to have piles or to have chafed. Sometimes after * > \ few days these symptoms subside. * * ♦ But soon the heat and smarting returns, the " evacuations become more painful, and the distress continues longer. The dejections are > sometimes mingled with blood, and the pain increases. * * ♦ When the pain is felt lh< « slightest things exasperate it; coughing, urining, leaping, are sometimes sufficient; one t. patient cannot stand upright and at rest, and another cannot remain sitting. ♦ • • (а) Bebmont, Tliesc, Paris, 1827, p. 33.—Co- I.OMBE, Biblioth^que Mcdicale, 1828, vol. ii. (б) PiEDAONEL, Velpeau, Diet, do Medccine, vol. iii. p. 328. (c) Do la Fissure ou Gercure do I’Anus, accom- pagnee du reserrement spasm odique du Sphincter; in his Traitc dcs Maladies Cliirurgicales, vol. x. ■. Paris, 1825. (d) De la Fissure a I'Anus; in Lerons IwOi • vol. lii. liWl. , («) I,ectureson Diseases of the Rectum ; in Men- Gazette, voh xvi. 1835. vol. xviii. 1835.