301 WITH THE finger; any extravasated blood is to be removed by gentle pressure, the edges of the wound are to be brought into pretty close apposition, and connected with sticking plaster, whicli is to be wound round tlie limb, or a small compress is to be placed on the wound, and a sufficiently long bandage turned eight times round the joint, a graduated compress is to be put along the track of the artery, and the whole finished by wrapping up the entire limb. ^ The bandage is to be left alone till it loosens, when it must be reapplied in the siime way. The wound may close very easily in six days, when a hard swelling is commonly to be perceived, which is caused by the loosening up of the cellular tissue, and more or less extravasation of blood ; this is dis- persed by the continued use of a tightly applied bandage. The observations of VON Winter (1) have especially shown, that, under this treatment, which is applicable only to small longitudinal (punctured) wounds of arteries, the healing may take place, and, perhaps, usually does take place with preser- vation of the canal of the artery. (1) VON Winter recommended that this apparatus should consist of bandages made up of linen four times folded, two inches wide, and of the length of a sheet, and that over this the circular bandage should be rolled, inasmuch as such an apparatus sits closer, and does not so easily get loose as the common bandage, applied according to Theden’s plan. 287. Immediate or direct compression consists in laying some charpie, rolled together, or pieces of agaric, sprinkled or moistened with styptic remedies, upon the mouth of the bleeding vessel, and fixing it tightly by a suitable bandage. This kind of blood-stanching is less certain, and, as re- gards the healing of the wound, very injurious (1). It must, therefore, be employed only in those cases where tying tlie bleeding artery is not pos- sible ; for instance, if the blood wells up from the whole surface of a wound, in wounds of the meningeal artery (2), in severe bleeding from the nose (3), after the operation of cutting for the stone (4), and so on. This compression most certainly stops the bleeding when the artery can be com^iressed against a bone (5). [(l) When direct pressure is employed, as a general rule, it is best not to use any styp- tic, but trust entirely to the finger, keeping up the pressure, it may be for hours, by a relief of assistants. But very commonly obstinate oozing, where no particular vessel can be observed, or where a score of minute vessels seem to need the application of liga- tures, and the surgeon’s patience is tired by finding that for every one he ties, two more bleed, may be completely checked, after once or twice gently sponging the wound with cold or tepid water, and carefully removing the smallest portion of clot, and leaving it exposed to the air for three or four hours, during which the whole surface of the wound is glazed with a thin layer of fibrinous exudation and the mouths of the little vessels sealed up. The bleeding in such cases seems to depend on the imperfect closing of the smaller or capillary arteries, which, having in themselves little contractile power, con- tinue to permit the escape of the blood, if the clot first formed in them be disturbed, as is doubtless often the case in cleaning the wound previous to bringing it together; and, indeed, the disturbed clot actually irritates the vessel to bleed till it has been washed off. The objection to styptics, of whatever kind, is that sloughing to a greater extent occurs after their use, than after the mere application of pressure. In external wounds which continue bleeding, after exposure to the air, if the vessel cannot be found, a piece of cork, or any other hard substance, covered with lint, and bound on tightly with a bandage, is often very useful. (2) Pressure on the meningeal artery is on no account to be employed, for it would be inconvenient to the brain. Nor indeed is it ever necessary; the removal of all the clot is quite sufficient to stop the bleeding, of which Abernethy gives an excellent in- stance in the case of a man who, having received a blow on the side of the head, had symptoms of compression, for which he was trephined, and, on elevating the bone, the meningeal artery, which had been wounded and formed a clot as big as a walnut, bled furiously, but ceased almost immediately on clearing away the blood.