321 RESUMPTION OF THE LIGATURE. L’on ne se doit beaucoup sorcier du sang sortant des petits vais- seaux. ou autrt?s parties. Car de ce ne peut aduenir aucun accident. Ains avec ce 1 union des Yaisseaux se fera mieux et plus seurement que s’il n’y auoit seulement que le corps des ditz yaisseaux conipris en la ligature. Ainsi tires, on les doit bien lier auec bon fil qui soit en double." (ch. 13.) _ ^ ,.i r j. • In a subsequent chapter, (15th,) which he heads with: Ce qu ilfautjaire s ilsuruenoit Jiux de sang d cause d’vn des susdiiz vaisseau deslid, he describes another mode of pro- ceeding, first advising, os more easy and less painful than the reapplication of a light bandage round the limb, as used in his time preparatory to amputation, “ qu’vn ministre prene le membre h deux mains pressaut fort de ses doigtz sur I’endroit du chemin des- ditz vaisseaux: Car en ce faisant il empeschera le flux de sang. Ce pendant tu prendras vne aiguelle longue de quatre pouces ou enuiron, quarree et bien trauchante, enfilee de bon fil en trois on quatre doubles, de laquelle tu relieras les vaisseaux en la fagon qui s’ensuit: car alors le bee de corbin ne te pourroit seruir. Tu passer^ laditte aiguille par le dehors de la playe, h, demy doigt ou plus, a costd dudit vaisseau, iusques au trauers de la playe, pres I’orifice du vaisseau: puis la repasseras sous ledit vaisseau, le comprenant de ton fil et feras sortir ton aiguille en laditte partie exterieure de I’autre coste' dudit vaisseau, laissant entre les deux chemins de laditte aiguille seulement I’espace d’vn doigt: puis tu lieras ton fil assez serre sur vne petite compresse de linge en deux on en trois doubles de la grosseur d’vn doigt, qui en gardera que le neud n’entre dedans le chair et I’arresteras seurement. Laditte ligature retire entierement dedans la bouche et I’orifice de la veine ou artere auec lesquelles aussi cachees et couuertes des parties charneuses adiacentes, se reprend aisement ledit orifice. Je te puis asseurer que iamais apres telle operation on ne voit sortir vne goutte de sang des vaisseaux ainsi liez. Et ne se faut trauailler d’user des sus- dits moyens d’arrester le sang aux petits vaisseaux: pource que aisement il sera supprime' par les astringents que nous te ordonnerons cy apres.” I have made these long extracts from Gale and Pare', as both were celebrated Sur- geons of the same period, the former having been with Henry VIII.’s army at Mon- treuil in 1544, and with that of Philip of Spain, our Queen Mary’s husband, at the siege of St. Quintin in 1557 ; and the latter surgeon to Charles IX. and Henry IV. of France. Gale in 1563 speaks of stitching the wounded vein or artery, and leaving one end of the thread to hang out until it falls away as a common practice with him ; but does not advert to either of the methods proposed by Pare' for tying the vessels after amputation, trusting to the potential cautery in preference to “ actuM cateriseng yrons, which sore feared the people with the orrror of cauterization, or burning as we call it, that many of them rather would dye wyth the member on, then to abyd the tirreble fyre, by means whereof manye people peryshed.” (p. 56.) Pare' uses the actual cautery in 155'2, but in 1564 strongly recommends ligatures, but in a very different and preferable manner than as proposed by Gale. And among the reasons he assigns for such recommendation, he says :—“ On ne vit oneques de six ainsi cruelle- ment traittez, eschapper deux, encore estoient ils long temps malades, et mal-aisement estoient les playes ainsi bruslees, menees k consolidation, pource que vne telle vstion faisoit des douleurs si vehementes que les malades tomboient en fieure, en spasme et autres mortelles accidents auec ce que le plus souuent I’escare cheut suruenoit nouueau flux de sang qu’il falloit eucor estancher auec les cauteres actuals et potentiels, lesquels repetez consumoient vne grande quantite de chairs et autres parties nerueuses. Pour laquelle deperdition les os demeuroient puis apres nuds et decouuers. Ce qui a rendu k plusieurs la cicatrisation impossible, aiants tout le reste de leur vie garde vn ulcere au lieu du membre couppe, qui leur ostoit le moyen de se pouuoir seruir d’vn membre fait artificiellement.’’ (chap. xvii. p. 115.) From a comparison of these accounts it must be admitted that, although to Pare must be assigned the just praise of having reintro- duced the employment of the ligature as now used, (for it is of little consequence whether he was aware of Celsus having recommended it or not, he has made it so completely his own,) yet Gale’s practice of tying vessels, though in a different manner, was earlier ’ven to the world than Pabe'’s, and his horror of the actual cautery not less great, al- hough less picturesquely described. The ligature of arteries, as recommended by Pare' was very slowly received by urgeons, and even so late as 1761 it appears in the fourth edition of Sharp’s Critical '^nquiry into the present state of Surgery, that the forceps were not used, but Pare'’s second method with the needle employed, and in many parts of Europe not even tliat, whilst in France some of the Surgeons at least thought it not applicable in all cases, and sometimes used it, and at other only lotions of vitriol or of alum. The tenaculum, now in common use by some practitioners in preference to the forceps, was invented by Brumfield, Surgeon of Guy’s Hospital.—J. F. S.l VOL. I. V