282 SPINE-DISEASE instead of tlie natural upright appearance. This is an affection which takes place in young persons. It occurs during the period that the body is growing, and at the time of puberty; when the frame acquires its full strength and solidity, the bones become firm and strong, they lose their softened or rickety state ; they, however, are not natural in their form, and consequently the figure remains permanently deformed.” (pp. In rare cases, however, curvature forwards of the spine also occurs from “aweakcondi- tion of the muscles, or a rickety affection of the bones,” and upon such examples Bkodie observes;—“ In general, in such cases the curvature occupies the whole spine, which as- sumes the form of the segment of a circle. At other times, however, it occupies only a portion of the spine, usually that which is formed by the superior and inferior doisal vertehrcB; as I have ascertained, not only by examinations during life, but by dissection after death. Here the curvature is always gradual; never angular, and thus it may Ije distinguished from the curvature as arising from caries. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that these different kinds of curvature, arising from different causes, have frequently been confounded with each other; and that some of the cases which have been published as examples of caries of the spine, and in which it may, at first, be a matter of surprise that so complete and so speedy a cure has been effected, have in reality been cases of an en- tirely different malady.” (p. 253.) Bkodie refers to some excellent observations of Henry Earle (a) on this subject. Brodie states that, “ as the disease advances, the patient, in some instances, complaint of pains, which are referred to one groin and hip, such as may lead to the suspicion that there is disease in the hip-joint; and, in fact, a very common error (and one into which even Surgeons of great experience are liable to fall) is to regard the symptoms of caries of the middle and inferior dorsal vertebra; as indicating incipient caries of the hip.” (p. 285.)] 261. T\\q treatme7it must be conducted in reference to the previous rules. At the onset, according to the constitution of the patient, leeches, cupping, and internal remedies adapted to the general cause of the disease, must be employed. In traumatic inflammation of the spine, cold aitplications, with suitable antiphlogistic treatment, must be used from the beginning. IVhen the inflammatory symptoms have been, in this way, diminished, rubbing in mercurial ointment and (in scrofulous persons) iodine ointment, are exceed- ingly serviceable ; but the most important are continual derivations, most conveniently made by several issues of caustic placed on both sides of the dis- eased part of the spine (1), or by several suitable long streaks with the actual cautery. If improvement take place, and the weakness of the lower limbs cease, the issues must nevertheless be kept open for a long time. In sluggishness of the bowels, attention must be paid to regulating the mo- tions ; in failing of the powers, they must be supported by bark and proper • dietetic treatment; and, in retention of urine from weakness of the bladder, . care must be taken to empty it with the catheter. An attempt to remove * the deformity of the spine by machinery, and the like, shows an entire ' misunderstanding of the disease, but is necessary, both on account of rest- -! ing the diseased part, as well as to prevent further sinking down of the spinal column, to preserve strictly the horizontal position on the back or r; belly during the whole treatment (2). AYhen abscesses are formed, they must, , if not very large, be left alone ; if the caries of the vertebrce be brought to ; heal by the application of powerful derivatives, these abscesses often disperse i’ of themselves by the pus in them being absorbed and their walls contracting j to a cord ; in rare cases, the pus contained in them may be changed into a mass like adipocere. (DuruYTiiEN) (/>). If these abscesses be very large and threaten to break, they must be opened by a single thrust of a lancet,: emptied!;’,of the pus by equable pressure, without permitting the entrance of the air, and the opening carefully closed with sticking plaster. I he edges of the opening soon unite, and the emptying of the swelling, if the (n) Edinburgh McdicalJournal, Jan. 1813. (6) Ix>oons llrj'es do Clinique Chimigie*le>