TORN PERINEUM. 611 d to brill" the edges of the wound into contact. Instead of the interrupted, J the qui?l stitch may be employed, which by its equal operation on all parts Ibf the wound keeps the union close, as is especially confirmed by Roux’s ,! successful results. The wound is to be covered with a pledget and >i compress, which may be firstened with a T bandage or left uncovered ; or ji 1 piece of sponge is applied, which is preferable, as the fluid flowing from the vagina does not collect upon the superficial pieces of the bandage. If d in the union there be much tension of the edges of the wound, two parallel Icuts must be made through the skin (Dieffenbach.) The patient should ft remain after the operation upon her side, with the thighs drawn up and I close together. i| This operation was first proposed by Ambrose Pare, and successfiilly performed by rj 3oieeebokneait ; Mauriceau, La Motte and Smeeeie have recommended it; Noel 8 and Saccerotte have successfully practised it; and subsequently it has been under- 0 aken by Dupuytren, Mor.sinna, Menzel, Osiander, Dieffenbach, Montain, Roux and others. The mode of proceeding as to refreshing the edges is the same in all cases frt out varies considerably as regards the union. Guillebonneau employed the inter- M .-iipted stitch; Moriceau, La Motte, and Smellie recommend the suture with pene- ;<( :rating stitches; Noel, Saucerotte employ the twisted stitch; Dieffenbach both M t and the interrupted; Roux and Montain the quill stitch. Ritgeon (a) took a A iread with two needles, thrust the one deeply on one side into the cleft at the edge of #;he skin, and carried it through an inch from the edge of the wound into the vagina, A where he drew it tight with a slip-knot. In this way the membrane of the vagina !ff s brought together in several folds, which keep the fluid from the wound. If there be a It the same time injury of the m. sphincter ani the twisted stitch must be applied, a [In a successful case operated on by Davidson (i), he “ passed deeply a strong •S double ligature by means of a common curved needle, close by the edge of the «'ectum, and another, rather more than half an inch from the first, towards the vagina ; ' ifter which, he pared the edges of the wound, which he had not previously done, that .one might not be annoyed by the oozing of blood, so as to be enabled to place the liga- . (.ures more accurately. The ligatures being introduced, he employed as cylinders two 4oieces of elastic gum catheter, about an inch and a-half in length, one of which was placed in the loops which the double ligature formed on one side, and the other between 1 iheir separate ends, tying them firmly upon the cylinder.” To prevent the eversion of h ihe edges of the wound, which Roux found to be produced by the quill suture, and il which he remedied by several small stitches at different points between the sutures, u Davldson “ armed a curved needle with a piece of narrow tape, four inches long, icaaving a knot at one end; this was down each end of both cylinders about half an I ,.nch, and brought outwards, the end of the tape being prevented slipping through by the : inot: the tapes were then placed in such a situation as to be intermediate to the liga- ; :-oires; this being done, he turned the cylinders gently towards the edge of the wound, )i.ind tied the corresponding tapes over it.” p. 225.] ■i 745. The principal object after the operation is to produce, by the use gentle purgatives, daily, soft motions, which should be received into a '•draw-sheet, and the patient must strain as little as possible. The urine 1 Bust jie received into a tin receptacle from which a leathern pipe passes t nto the night-stool, without needing any change of posture. Only when v.here is retention of urine the catheter is to be used, directed merely by olhe fore-finger of the right hand. The dressing is to be renewed as often i'llis cleanliness requires, and if there be any unnatural secretion from the ’^'kagina, cleansing injections are to be used each time. Betiveen the eighth ind twelfth day the threads are to be removed and the perineum covered ivith charpie dipped in lead wash. If the union be only partial, the in- "'Lonvenience is, however, often diminished; but if this be not the case a ' jiecond closure must be undertaken. Many observations prove that a nerfectly united perineum remains uninjured in a subsequent labour. (o) Gemeinsame deuteche Zeitschrift fur die Geburtskunde, vol. iii. pt. i p 1G8 (6) I.4\ncct) 1838-9,vol.ii. 2 R 2