403 2 d2 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, &c. OF THE BRAIN. . that it thrust the /ah much to tlie right, and compressed the right hemisphere. The avity of the left ventricle was almost entirely destroyed; the left striated body flat- eued, and the optic bed, septum lucidum, corpus callosum, and junction or the op ic ■erves were driven much to the right. The size of the right ventricle w^ diminished, lud it contained little fluid. The medullary substance was very soft around the swelling, ) that the latter, which was distinctly encysted, and contained much pus, was readily arned out of it with the finger. In the right hemisphere the medullary matter was ery firm.] 407. The symptoms and course of traumatic inflammation of the brain nd its membranes may be variously modified, by the simultaneous attack both brain and membranes, by the occurrence of inflammation in exist- :ig pressure of the brain from depressed bone, or by previous concussion the brain. 408. The prognosis of inflammation of the brain depends upon the pos- bility of removing its causes. If the inflammation continue, it runs on suppuration, and then upon the seat and extent of the collection of us depends whether it can be removed or not. It is, therefore, the first uty of tlie Surgeon to examine closely the part of the head on which the sternal violence has acted, and if splinters, indents, and so on be present, iey must be removed according to the rules laid down. 409. The inflammation requires the strictest antiphlogistic treatment, ieeding from the arm, in the jugular vein, leeches to the head, to the eck, of which the bleeding should be kept up for from twelve to twenty- ur hours, by the repeated application of the leeches; internally, antiphlo- Stic purgatives, calomel in smart doses (1), and especially the continual plication of ice or of Schmucker’s solution, (four ounces of nitrate of tash, two ounces of muriate of ammonia, a pint of vinegar, and ten pints water,) no remedies being so efficient as cold fomentations to prevent ammation. They must, therefore, as well as the prophylactic bleedings, ! from the first employed in every injury of the head in which inflamma- on of the brain is to be feared (2). [[(1) In the treatment of inflammation of the brain or its membranes, the principal reli- ce is to be placed on the use of mercury, till it produces ptyalism; soon after the appear- ce of which the symptoms begin to be less severe, and therefore the more quicldy the astitution can be affected, the more favourable may be the expected results. On this bount the calomel should be given in two-grain doses, every eight, six, or even four [urs, according to the severity of the symptoms, and even rubbing in mercurial oint- tnt may be also employed twice or thrice a day. So soon as the mercurial fetor of the kath is observed, and the gums begin to separate from the teeth, it will be seen that It constitution is beginning to be laid hold of by the mercury, and then the quantity Ven or rubbed in must be diminished to that only which is sufficient to keep up the Ircnrial action. 12) After free evacuations of blood, which I think are most effectual when local, by pping on the nape, temples, or behind the ears, a large blister over the whole scalp, or Ithe nape, if the scalp be wounded, is often extremely beneficial.—J. F. S.] 410. If, with this treatment persisted in with sufficient energy, and for oper length of time, the symptoms of gorging and inflammation of the lain continue undiminished, or rather if they gradually increase, especially nen the bared bone shews a grayish colour and change in its texture, spanning must be had recourse to. In this case it is probable that some se, as a splinter or extravasated blood, exists witliin the skull, which eps up the inflammation, and renders all treatment useless, but may be Jnd out and removed by trepanning. 411. If the symptoms of suppuration have already appeared, the prog- S13 is very unsatisfactory indeed; there is, however, the simple possibility