TKEATMENT. 617 caustic, caustic potash, butyr of antimony, sulphuric acid, sulphate of ^ zinc burnt alum, and the like These should be especially employed if ( the fungous growths be equally spread over the whole surface of the »! ulcer. The dry escharotics may be strewed upon the sore, or applied in nr form of ointment; the fluid painted on with a pencil after the ulcer has a been properly cleared of the effused ichor. The former are more suitable 4 rather in a flabby state of the fungous excrescences, and great secretion of oi ichor; the latter in greater firmness of the growth, and less effusion. If the A fungus grow only partially from the ulcer, it may be most easily removed b. with the knife, by cutting it off at the base; by tying, when the fungus e has a neck, and the patient dreads the knife, and much bleeding is feared A from the excision. In those cases in which the remedies prescribed do i not effect the destruction of the excrescence, or may produce awkward ;a> symptoms by their fluidity and spreading, if the use of the knife or ligature 4 be not possible, then the destruction of the fungus is only to be effected by ! 1 the use of the actual cautery. The bleeding which often arises sponta- .li'ineously, or in either of the preceding modes of treatment, from the fungous •4- surface, must be stanched by styptics, compression, actual cautery, or by ’ 0 the entire removal of the fungus. 758. Varicose Ulcers (Ulcera varicosa, Lat. ; varicosen Geschwure, rr Germ ; Ulceres variqueux, Fr.) occur most commonly in the lower ex- 4 tremities; are for the most part oval and superficial; their base bluish, their secretion serous and bloody; the edge in old ulcers mostly callous, 11 and the surrounding skin brown ; accompanied with varicose veins of the ^ leg, especially around the ulcer, and oedematous swelling. Not unfre- ^ quently do they bleed periodically; ordinarily they are not painful, but ^ frequently very painful, even without any trace of inflammation. These i ulcers are in direct relation to the varicose affection, and all those evils which produce hindrance to the return of the blood, as pressure, con- tinued standing, remaining in warm or cold moisture, must be considered d|i as their cause ; hence certain trades, pressure of the pregnant womb and the .si like. Predisposition to varicose affections is grounded especially on ple- 14 thora, full juicy lax habit, venous stagnation, and loaded state of the intes- -jgj tines; haemorrhoidal disposition ; suppressed haemorrhoid and menstruation. Hence it happens that, in many instances, these swellings of the veins are (I only symptoms of a deeper affection, and may even belong to the relative well-being of the patient. They arise either from accidental injury in lef existing varicosity, or from the blood-knots running into suppuration ; o| or other ulcers of a specific character are converted into them. In the treatment of these ulcers, their causes must be first attended to ; >it venous stagnation and loaded bowels must be relieved by purging, regu- oi lation of the mode of life, diminished standing, relief of pressure, and 1 the like. The whole ulcer is to be simply covered with dry charpie ; I but the varicose and oedematous swellings are to be especially counter- ' I acted by swathing with bandages, and by the circular application of 1) sticking plaster. If the cure be effected, its recurrence must be prevented • ; by careful diminution of the occasional causes, with continued swathing by means of laced stockings of dog’s skin (a). : The rules already laid down in abscesses (par. 65) apply to the treatment of fistulous ulcers. 759. If the ulcers have existed a long while, and have attained the (o) KoTHE.Varicose Vcnenund varicose Geschwiir an den Unterschcnkeln ; in Ri;st’s Mag.,vol.xx.K. p.82.