85 LOCAL TKEATMENT. infriction of emollient salves, especially mercurial ointment, in order to further resolution by hastening the absorption. T“ Fomentations, or steams, washes, and poultices, says Hunter, are the common applications to a part in the state of inflammation. The first and last are commonly ap- plied to inflammation arising from external violence and proceeding to suppuration; the second commonly to internal surfaces, as the mouth, nose, urethra, vagina, rectum, &c. The action of the firet two is but of short duration. i, • i, • i “ Fomentations and steams are fluid bodies raised into vapour; they may be either simple or compound; simple, as steam or vapour of water, compound as steam of water impreg- nated with medicine. * * * * Washes are in general fluid applications, and are more commonly applied to inflammations of internal surfaces, than of the common integuments: there are washes to the ej'e, called collyria; washes to the mouth and throat, called gargles; washes to the urethra, called injections, and to the rectum, called clysters. * * * These applications, like fomentations, are of short duration, for there is-no possibility of applying these powers constantly, except in the form of a poultice, whose operation is somewhat similar, and indeed they are only substitutes for a poultice, where that mode of application cannot be made use of, as I observed with respect to internal surfaces. “ Poultices are constant applications, and like fomentations may be of two kinds, either simply warm and wet or medicated. The greatest effect that a poultice can produce must be immediate; but its power will extend beyond the surface of contact, although only in a secondary degree. “ To the common inflammation, the simplest poultice is supposed to be the best, and that effect I believe is only by keeping the parts easier under the complaint; but I am of opinion that such do not affect the inflammation any other way. A common poultice is, perhaps one of the best applications when we mean to do nothing but to allow nature to perform the cure with much as ease to herself as possible. Poultices may be medicated so as to be adapted to the kind of inflammation.” (pp. 361, 362.) Abernetht’s observation that “ poultices are blessings or curses as they are well or ill made, and that more commonly they only irritate instead of doing good,” though it may excite a smile, is borne out by daily observation; for, instead of the highly sensitive surface of an inflamed part being soothed, as it should be by the application of a poultice, “ the three properties of which are,” to use that excellent teacher’s words, “that it should be perfectly soft, perfectly smooth, and perfectly moist,” it is too frequently irritated by loading with a heap of hard and lumpy materials which soon dry, and almost as soon become sour. The bread and water poultice is the best, and in general most suited for all circum- stances, either as a simple application, or as a vehicle for the employment of the juices of substances which in themselves are too harsh to be applied to very sensitive parts. To make this poultice, Abernethy directs“ Scald out a basin (for you can never make a good poultice unless you have perfectly boiling water) and put boiling water in it; throw in some coarsely crumbled bread crumbs, and cover it up with a plate. When as much water has been soaked up as the bread will imbibe, drain off the rest, and a light beaten into paste, as usually done, but merely broken with the edo-e of a fork) is then left, which is to be spread, the third of an inch thick, on folded linen and applied at the temperature of a warm bath.” If it be advisable to medicate the poulbce, the juice of fresh hemlock, decoction of carrot, or opium, or any other material m solution, may be added to the sodden bread after it has been well drained; and thus is formed a very soothing application. It is best not to add lard or grease of any kind to a as thereby its relaxing effect on the skin is diminished or destroyed. But J^ard, and becomes uncomfortable and irn tating. It must be either continually moistened by dropping on it, from a sponge, warm medicated solution through the linen, without removing it from the part to ivhich it is applied, and under which circumstances it acts to a certain extent bv