PROPRIETY OF TREPANNING 412 be proportioned to the patient’s constitution and the condition of the pulse; and if even after a very few ounces only have been drawn the pulse should intermit, the bleeding.■“ should he immediately stopped, or fainting and convulsions will ensue. Five or ten'l grains of calomel should be given immediately, and the best mode of administering it is to mix it with a little sugar, or with a little honey, and put it on the tongue, so that it may gradually pass with the spittle, down the throat. If in the course of a few hours it have not operated, (and even if it have, there will be no objection,) a clyster of a pint of warm infusion of senna with Epsom salts, or castor oil in gruel, may be thrown up, which will at least empty the lower bowel, and often encourage the purging action above. If the patient after some hours continue insensible, and congestion in the brain be presumed, or if inflammation have begun, then bleeding must be employed again and again, either generally or locally, or both, according to the severity of the symptoms. But above all calomel or mercurial friction must be employed till the symptoms yield, or till ptyalism is produced, and then sufficient only used to keep up that condition. If the treatment be successful the symptoms will gradually subside; but sometimes before this happens alarming fits of an epileptic character may occur, which happened to a young man under my care some years since, who, whilst labouring under inflammation after concussion, on the morning of the sixth day after the accident, had three such fits at intervals of two hours, became completely comatose, and had dilatation of the pupils; and on the following day had two more, so that I presumed efiusion had taken place, and that he would die. Upon the eighth day, however, he began to answer questions, and on the thirteenth began to comprehend his condition; in the course of the day became perfectly sensible, and at last completely recovered.—j. f. s. The quantity of blood which has been withdrawn, during concussion and its consecn-i tive inflammation, is enormous. Astley Cooper mentions an instance in which “ the whole quantity of blood, taken by bleeding from the arm, opening the temporal artery, and the application of leeches, as far as this could be estimated, amounted to about two hundred and eight ounces ; of which one hundred and eighty ounces were taken from the arm. * * * This gentleman recovered.” (p. 272.) (2) Vomiting with tartarized antimony, or any other emetic, should never be resorted; to, as the effort to empty the stomach drives more blood to the brain, which is precisely contrary to that which is desired.—J. F. S.] 427. If the patient be improved by either of the prescribed treatments, he must long avoid every exertion and over-heating; if any palsy remain the employment of stimulating strengthening remedies, mineral baths, emetics, electricity, and so on, are useful. If the concussion be accom- panied with fracture and impression of the skull, these must be first treated according to the rules already laid down. 428. In order to prevent the insidious inflammation of the brain, which often first arises some time after concussion, the patient must be closely watched, kept very quiet, cold applications, spare diet, purgings, tartar emetic in small doses, and long continued, must be employed, and the gastric symptoms especially looked after. In order to get rid of the remaining consequences of concussion, cold washes to the liead, washes with caustic liquor of ammonia and water, the application of species cephalica (a), blisters, often an issue upon the head itself should be used ; in long-continued determination of blood to tlie head, repeated blood-letting and aperient medicines, with a properly regu- lated diet, must be employed. D.—OF TREPANNING IN INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 429. The opinions of surgeons as to the application and necessity for the trepan in injuries of the head are very different. Some (De.vse, Desault Richter, Abernetht, A. Cooper, Brouie, Langenbeck, Waltheb, and others) considerably restrict, and only have recourse, to it wlien the secondary symptoms of irritation and pressure have set in severely. Others (a) Under this title are included several kinds of powders consisting of farragos of herbs.