INTRODUCTION. 3 sion, and to distinguish those diseases to which we would assign the name of surgical. , - r As tlie plienomena of life present to us by the relative predominance ot powers and organs, a dynamic, potential, and organic material phase, on the intimate harmony of Avhich health depends, so do we observe also in tlie diseased states of the organism, that sometimes the power, some- times tlie organ, varies more from the natural type, whence arises the dif- ference between dynamic and organic diseases. This distinction can, however, only indicate a relatively predominant suffering of one or other phase of life, since the organic body presents in itself an entire whole, of I which the several parts and phenomena are in the closest mutual con- iiiexion with each other. The organic diseases are especially those which originate in a destruc- tion of the natural condition, form, and structure of organized tissues, and therefore may generally depend, 1. on the disturbance of organic con- nexion ; 2. on the unnatural union of parts; 3. on the presence of foreign bodies; 4. 07i the degeneration of organic parts, or on the production of new structures; 5. on the entire loss; and, 6., on the superfluity of organic parts. Organic diseases must be distinguished into such as have their seat in parts inaccessible to mechanical contrivances, and to our organs of touch, and whose cure therefore can only be attempted by dietetic and pharma- ceutic remedies, or whose seat permits the employment of external means and regulated contrivances, and which in most cases can be brought to iheal only by these contrivances, with the assistance of dietetic and phar- maceutical aids. We may therefore distinguish as belonging to the pro- vince of Surgery all those organic diseases which have their seat in parts 'maccessible to our organs of touch, or which allow of the employment of mmechanical means for their cure. I Although inflammation is excluded from this general definition, we ■ must, however, still enumerate it generally, and particularly among the ■ manifold origins of surgical diseases, when it attacks external parts. In- ■dammation in its course and results produces for the most part organic ■ ihanges, and requires, when attacking external parts, almost always the ■ !mployment of the so-called surgical means: further, among the surgical •liseases soon to be more particularly described, there is not one of which ■ he cause is not inflammation, which in its course does not produee inflam- ■ nation, or the cure of which is not to a certain extent singly and alone ■ »ossible by inflammation. After tliese observations, we therefore prefer the following division for ■ he setting forth of surgical diseases, which, if it be open to many objec- I ions, is, however, an arrangement of diseases according to their internal <1 nd actual agreement:— I I. Division.— Of inflammation. ■ . Of inflammation in general. • . Of some peculiar kinds of inflammation. I a. Of erysipelas ; b. Of burns; c. Of frost-bite ; d. Of boils ; e. Of I carbuncle. 1. Of inflammation in some special organs. I a. Of inflammation of the tonsils; b. Of the parotid gland; c. Of I u 2