584 FRACTURES OF THE is usually very tiresome when both bones are broken, and in general cannot be managed i with the gummed, starched, or plastered apparatus, nor by placing the limb on the si^ In these cases it is almost always necessary to have the leg straight and resting on the" heel, wRh a pair of side splints, and constant extension by weighting the foot, as men. ' * tioned in the general treatment of fractures, to prevent the riding of the fractured endi and the liability of their protrusion through the skin. Sometimes an Amesbury’s or • Assalini’s apparatus is found most effectual to keep the fracture in place, and at other •' times the swing-box serves the purpose best. But not unfrequently it is a very difficult • i matter to keep the fracture quiet and in proper position, and the Surgeon’s ingenuity « i sorely taxed to conduct the case satisfactorily for the first few days; after which, how- ■ j ever, the difllculties generally subside. But as the bones are so close to the skin, this fracture requires more especial attention than any other to prevent the bones driving 1 through. ” ' I I have not taken any notice of fracture of the leg-bones accompanied with dislocation, ^ as that subject will be more conveniently treated of at a future opportunity.—J. F. S.] As to the various kinds of Foot-beds, Swing, and Extending Machines, the follow- ■ i ing writers are to be referred to:—• ’ Loeffli®, Beitrage, vol. i. ■ Pbael, in Abnemann’s Magazin, vol. iii. part ii. Faust, Beschreibimg einer Beinbruchmaschine zum Gebrauche der Feldlazarethe. . Buckeburg, 1815. Schmidt ; in Lodee’s Journal, vol. iv. part iii. Koppenstaetter, Beschreibung einer neu erfundenen und verbesserten Maschinefiir ■ I alle Beinbriiche der oberen und underen Gliedmassen ohne Binden, Schienen und ' Strohladen, nebst ausfuhrlicher Anleitung zur unfehlbaren Anwendung derselbea. Augsburg und Leipzig, 1823. 8vo. Second Edit.; with one copper-plate, containing 34 ] figures. Von Graefe’s Suspendor; in Journal fiir Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde, voLiv. part ii. p. 197. An alteration of Prael’s, for the purpose of obtaining with the swinging position an alternate lateral posture, by Nusbaumer ; in Annalen fiir die gesammte HeRkunde. Karlsruhe, vol. ii. part i. p. 60. 1825. Mayor, Memoire sur I’Hypopartecie; ou sur le Traitement des Fractures par la planchette. Paris. Geneve, 1827. Dobnbluth, L., Bemerkungen fiber die gebrauchliche Behandlungsart der Unter- schenkelbrfiche, nebst Beschreibung eines Schwebe-und Streck-Apparates, womit jene ohne Binden und schneller als bisher zu heilen sind. Neustrelitz, 1827. 8vo.; with a lithographed plate. Elderton ; in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. 1824, March. Amesbdry, On the Nature and Treatment of Fractures, &c. London, 1827. Forster’s Suspendor; in Richter’s Handbuch der Lehre von den Briichen, u. s. w. p. 450-452. Eieke, Beschreibung der FiiiTZE’schen Beinbruchschwebe. Prag., 1823. Speyer, Beitrage zur chirurgischen Heilmittellehre und Krankenpflege. Hanau, 1835. On the Plaster of Paris Apparatus, see Richter, above cited. XVIII.-ON FRACTURE OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. CFractura Ossium Pedis, Lat.; Bruch der Knochen des Fusses, Germ.; Fractures des Os de Pied, Fr.J 710. The bones of the foot are rarely broken, on account of their great strength and shortness; their fracture therefore, mostly consequent on the immediate operation of external violence, is accompanied ivith bruis- ing of the soft parts, and with crushing of the bones, and must be treated .according to the ordinary rules. In severe crushing, the extirpation ot some bones, the excision of the front of the foot, or the amputation of the