DISLOCATION 792 1056. Tlie reduction of this dislocation of the spoke-bone is easy. The fore-arm is extended with one iiand, whilst with the other, the head of the ' i spoke-bone is pressed into its place, and the fore-arm brought into supina- ' tion, in the dislocation backwards, and into pronation, in that forwards, and : ! should be kept in place after the joint has been surrounded with compresses -if and circular bandages, by a splint placed on its front or back part. In from twenty to twenty-five days, this apparatus may be entirely removed i and careful motion of the arm permitted. According to Astlev Cooper, the reduction of the dislocation forwards of the spoke- - i bone, requires much force, and he enumerates cases, in which it was impossible; from i experiments on the dead body, however, the extension of the hand, in which the spoke- i bone alone was acted on, was the most preferable; in this way I have also easily effected;; ( the reduction. If the appearances mentioned {par. 1054) indicate the relaxation of the articultt. ■ i connexions of the spoke-bone, all dragging and movement of the hand must avoided, . i the fore-arm must be fixed in a half-bent position, and the relaxation of the ligameid* ■ i removed by suitable applications and rubbings in. ■ |i n; lo" f!' VIII.—OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST. {Lvxatio Carpi,'Lz.i.-, Verrenkung des Haiidgelenkes, Germ.Luxation du Poignet, Ft.) ' 1057. Three kinds of dislocation may take place at the wrist-joint 1, the dislocation of both bones of the fore-arm; 2, the dislocation of the spoke-bone; and, 3, the dislocation of the cubit. 1058. Dislocation of the ha?id from its connexion with both bones of ; the fore-arm, may be forwards, backwards, or to one or other side ; the two latter kinds can only be incomplete, the former two more or less perfect. In the dislocation forwards, the hand is bent much backwards, and there is ■ a great projection upon the inside of the wrist; the fingers are bent as ■ well as the fore-arm. In the dislocation backwards, the very contrary symptoms occur; fracture of the spoke-bone mostly accompanies it (A. Cooper.) In dislocation on one or other side, there is always distor- tion of the hand, adduction or abduction, and a projection on the radial or ulnar side. Dislocation of the wrist-joint, mentioned from the earliest time, has been doubted by Dupcytren, as he denied its existence, and almost its possibility, and proved the pre- sumed cases of such dislocations were fractures of the lower end of the spoke-bone. This opinion is almost generally received, and by a strict criticism of the previous observations of such dislocations supported, against the opinions of Petit, DESAni*, Boyer and others. But few observations have excited doubts against the stateineall of DuPiJYTRBai. VoiLLEMiER lias howcvcr shown the existence of such dislocations, by the most careful examination of a complete displacement of the wrist tockwards and of the bones of the fore-arm forwards, and has given, as distinguishing marks between this dislocation and fracture of the lower end of the spoke-bone, that in the latter there is a bending in on the outside of the fore-arm near the joint, which is wanting in the former; the hand is abducted, but in dislocation, the whole hand is twisted towards the outside of the fore-arm ; there is swelling at the fore and under part of the fore-arm, which is wanting in dislocation ; but little decided projection of the ends of the fractnre forwards and backwards, whilst in dislocation a projection of seven or eight lines Mck- wards is formed by the wrist-joint, and forwards by the bones of the fore-arm; gretl breadth of the bones on the carpo-metacarpal surfaces, but in the dislocation only the natural breadth; the spoke-bone is shorter, but in dislocation of etiual length as in the sound arm ; the styloid process of the spoke-bone has its natural place at the wrist, but in dislocation it is situated on the inside of the wrist, to the inner side of the sca- phoid hone; the styloid process of the cubit projects upon the back of the fore-arm, hut in dislocation on the front; it projects as far or farther down than that of the spoke-