243 ANCHYLOSIS. is sometimes confined to one side of the joint. Such joints are sometimes seized with an acute attack of inflammation of that part which had been previously healthy ; sup- puration rapidly ensues, under which the failing of the patient s health and powers de- mand amputation of tlie limb for the preservation of life. The two sides of the jomf present different appearances: one shows no recent signs of inflammation ; the ends oi the bones are partially, perhaps wholly, deprived of their cartilage, or the cartilaginous .surface is ulcerated only to a certain depth ; between the bones is seen the naeinbrane • adhering to the cartilage, white, possessing scarcely a trace of vascularity, and merely isen’iug to connect the ends of the bones by means of what is termed ligamentous an- chylosis. The other side of the joint is full of pus; every tissue in a state of active ;iinflammation ; the cartilage removed by a rapid process of ulceration, in which the bone is probably found to have taken an active part; and the ends of the bone are seen covered with vascular fungous granulations, from which pus is abundantly secreted.” (pp. 227, 28.) With the correctness of these remarks I fully concur, and the following instances well support them, excepting that, in the first, the pus had been discharged, and, in the second, ulceration had occurred without suppuration. Case 1.—B. S., aged nine years, a fair-haired strumous boy, became my patient in June, 1840. Five years ago he was attacked with swelling and lameness of the left knee, without any known cause ; he was put under medical treatment, and afterwards was admitted into the hospital, from which, about four years since, he was discharged ; and it may be presumed all active disease had ceased, as his mother was told that the knee, which had become much bent, with the heel much raised from the ground, would •be restored, as his health recovered. No such improvement, however, has taken place, and he has since gone about constantly on a crutch. Being a very active boy, he has fre- iquently got falls, and hurt his knee; which, however, in the course of a few days have .been recovered from. Within the last two months he has fallen twice, but has not got well as previously ; and though during the day his knee has been little painful, yet at night it has become so much so as to prevent his sleeping. The leg is now bent nearly at a right angle with the thigh ; it can be bent a little more, but not straightened; the great toe only touches the ground, but he cannot bear upon it. The knee is rather larger than natural, especially the inner condyle ; and both condyles project a little over the front of the head of the shin-bone. There is a little fulness above the knee-cap, as if the joint were distended; but there is little tender- ness, and gentle motion does not cause pain. During a month nothing was done except keeping quiet; and it was observed that, if he did not move about during the day, he had not any pain at night. The joint then seeming to be perfectly free from irritation, I thought it advisable to attempt straighten- Jig the leg, sufficient to bring the foot down and render the limb useful. A hinge-splint, idapted to the bent state of the limb, was, therefore, adjusted to the back of the leg and kigh, which it was purposed slowly to extend by a screw, the two ends of which were iffixed to the two portions of the splint. This practice was continued for some weeks without benefit; but swelling coming on, attended with pain and tenderness, it was dis- »ntinued, and amputation successfully performed in the September following. On examination, the whole joint was found largely covered with fat; and immediately ibove the knee-cap an abscess, about the size of a shilling, communicating with the joint i)elow the front of the outer condyle by a narrow passage an inch long, lined with ad- lesive matter, but not containing pus. There is not any dislocation, but mere bending f the leg upon the thigh-bone. The cavity of the joint was destroyed, and the opposed x)ny surfaces united with fibrous matter, but some of the cartilage still remained. C^E 2.—J. P., aged nineteen years, a dark-haired scrofulous lad, came under my are in November 1839. Eight years ago, whilst running, he felt a sudden snap in his 3ft knee-joint, and almost immediately a swelling appeared above the base of the knee- ap, rather larger than a pigeon’s egg, but unattended with pain. This on the following ■noniing had subsided, but another swelling presented itself on the inside of the ham, ffiich was at once blistered by his medical attendant. On the next day he was attacked 'ith bilious fever, which confined him to bed fifteen weeks, and reduced him very much ; ijut during this time he did not suffer any pain or inconvenience in his knee. Soon ^iter getting about, the knee began to swell and to become stiff, but unaccompanied with '•am, and not preventing his walking. Leeches were once applied, and an evaporation nion n^d, but nothing more done; and at the end of a twelvemonth, the knee having ecome fixed in a straight position, he was told he had a white-swelling, and the removid A to which, however, he would not submit. His health continued with the aid of a stick, without pain, or further incon- el nieuce than a little halting, as late as J uly last, when he took a walk of fourteen miles « K 2 i