54 MORTIFICATION. is to be feared in unusually severe and quickly developed inflammations < with well marked general symptoms in young powerful subjects, and after i tlie operation of severe injuries; in persons with the general appearance j of Aveakness, if the redness of the inflamed part be bluish, of a dirty yellow, > the pain slight, and if it be accompanied with typhus. If the pain quickly ^ increase to a great degree, the inflammatory swelling be hard, dry, and j very tense, the heat intolerable, the skin dark red, often brownish, the ( fever extraordinarily severe, and no appearances ensue which lead to the hope of the inflammation terminating in suppuration, then the signs of incipient exhaustion become manifest. The acute pain becomes dull, aching, stretching; there is still indeed circulation, but its current gets sloAver and slower, and at last stops altogether. The redness therefore becomes deeper, more dusky, and further extended ; the warmth diminishes, | the swelling, at first hard and tense, becomes soft, doughy, oedematous, the cuticle rises in blisters, containing a dark-coloured brownish fluid. In ; this condition the part has not yet lost all its sensibility and warmth ; the i vital activity may therefore be reawakened and reparation effected. The \ | pulse is small, quick, and loses all fulness and hardness; the patient is i depressed, is uneasy, has a languid countenance, cold sweats, drj', dirty J tongue, unquenchable thirst, frequently burning hot skin ; the features at ^ the same time become pinched, and the urine is thick. When exhaustion j of the living activity and fully developed mortification takes place, then * the pain ceases entirely, the colour of the part becomes blue, ash gray, or » even black, the bone assumes a light white, dirty yellowish, or even black 1 spotted appearance. By the decomposition of the parts still covered with »^ skin, and the evolution of the gases of mortification an emphysematous) ‘ SAvelling is produced, the part becomes quite cold, and the general appear- ances of exhaustion are present in a higher degree, the mortification eitheri spreads further, and death ensues from exhaustion, or on the confines of ; the slough is produced a bright redness, suppuration, and by the opera- . tion of the absorbing vessels a groove, becoming deeper and deeper, by which the slough is thrown off. [This is Travers’s acute gangrene. He observes also, that “ if the inflammation oof cupies a circumscribed space, it is generally consecutive upon, and defined by, the adhesive J inflammation; if it appears iu several contiguous spots or patches, the whole of the in- ^ tervening surface, and more or less of the subjacent and surrounding part, partakes of '• the inflammation and is marked for destruction ; if, as often happens, it is of irregula# i size and shape and the surrounding margin darkly discoloured, tumid and painful to i the touch, it is spreading, and rapidly travels along a continuous surface without check, ( to the destruction of texture, and generally of life. * * * In some rare instances, * gangrenous inflammation takes possession of an entire structure, as, for example, hand or foot, or even a limb up to its connexion with the trunk, and beyond it, and the indica- tion is the sudden subsidence of agonizing pain, change of colour to a pale bluish hn^ loss of temperature and of sensation, so that the limb looks and feels like gray or clouded marble. 1 have seen in two cases the upper and lower extremities of the same side so affected in the same patient. The rapid dissolution of the vital principle in such in* stances, anticipates the march of disorganization; such cases are generally depending on nervous prostration from iujui'y or operation, attended by peculiar circumstances of .'iff' gravation, or, yet more frequently, peculiar temperament.” (pp. 209, 10.)j 24. Tlie clecoinposition of the mortified part is accompanied by a peculiW exiialation, diflerent in smell from that occurring in the decomposition of dead bodies, the cause of which seems to depend on the higher tem- perature to whicli the mortified part is exposed. 4'he destruction of the mortified part occurs in diflerent ways: 1st, the slough shrivels up, the I