599 IIAKE-LIP. i Yhich are best left alone. If there be any oozing, or if drivelling from the nose, it may je gently mopped witli a piece of soft linen, but as little as possible. (■>) The time recommended by Chelids for leaving the pins in is too long; thiity tor forty honvs at the utmost is amply sufficient, and sometimes even less; for so soon as ous is observed about the needles it is proper they should be withdrawn, as ey^ n (cease to be of use, and only cause irritation; and this occurs more or less quic y (according to the powers of the constitution. „ j., j i In removing the pins it is best to draw them gently through each coil of Aread with i| I pair of stout dressing forceps, supporting the wound at the same time with the fmger ii ind thumb; and after their withdrawal the thread should be gently puffied off with the (dnger-nail or with a probe. The upper two pins and threads should be first removed, J ind a long strip of plaster carried across the lip from ear to ear, which done, the lower (bin and thread are to be taken away. The plaster may be reapplied two or three times ^ daily or every second day, but its use is rather precautionary than necessary. J. F. S.J 729. If much inflammation of the wound occur after the operation, the ^hreatis, if too tightly drawn, must be loosened, and lead wash applied. »Cramps and convulsions require narcotic remedies. If the needles tear out, rjihe union must be again restored by the twisted or interrupted suture (1) ; or if the separation of the edges of the cleft be partial, the union must be assisted by the continued application of sticking plaster. This is, indeed, best in the first instance, because the needles introduced through the in- 5 ■flamed edges of the wound again tear out. The needles are most certainly prevented tearing out if they are passed in and out from the edge of the ® wound, and not left in more than three days. Van Onzenort’s advice is to pass the needle on each side of the wound through -(pieces of leather, to prevent the tearing away. l) [(1) If the needles tear out, an accident which I have never known to occur, I think «it would not be advisable to reintroduce them, as there could be no more probability of ^bunion occurring than in a torn wound, and their presence would therefore only increase fie irritation. It would therefore be best to leave the parts alone, and to repeat the peration at a future opportunity.—J. F. S.] 730. In double hare-lip, when the middle piece is sound and large, the ^ijjedges on both its sides must be pared and the needle passed through the •ijedges of both cleft and middle piece; but if it be small and crumpled it i^must be removed. If the cleft pass into the nostril, the lip must be i^separated from the gum equally high, the upper part of the cleft freely rared, and the upper needle introduced as high as possible (a). 731. Nothing has been done towards the union of the cleft in the if hard palate. It has been recommended to make continued pressure on iljboth upper jaw-bones with a stirrup-like apparatus (1). If nature do not Inclose these clefts, the inconvenience may be diminished (6) by a sponge in- ijtoroduced into it and fastened upon a silver or leather plate. !)( [(1) Mutter, who advocates early operating on cases of hare-lip and cleft palate dtmentions, among the advantages of so doing, that “ the influence exerted by the pressure i«f the cheeks and lips upon the maxillary bones is sometimes sufficient of itself to eause »Ean entire closure of the fissure in the hard palate. We have thus, when the patient I'B^ows up, only the cleft of the soft palate to contend with.” * * * After the lip has en- ?l tirely healed, I have derived much advantage from causing the nurse to introduce her ts-jfinger and thumb as far as possible into the mouth between the cheeks and alveolar pro- •iytcesses, and make lateral pressure upon the latter several times a day. I have also ■i resorted, in very bad cases, to a small silver clamp, composed of two flat blades and a regulating screw. The blades being properly adjusted, one upon each side, the screw is ■j gently turned so as to produce the requisite degree of pressure. If called to a child a ■( few years old, affected with hare-lip and a cleft palate, we have no time to lose, and h should operate on the lip at once. Even in these cases I have seen quite a wide cleft >■ closed by the action of the cheeks aided by the silver elamp.” (p. 26.) (o) Frobisp’s chirurgische Kupertafeln, pi. ■I'.ccxxv. ccxxvi. (a) Dieffenbaoh’s literarische Annalen, July, 1827. in Heceeb’s