PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE BELLY. 459 tlie needle is lield with the thumb of tlie right hand on the concave, and the fore finger on tlie convex part, to the very tip, so as to cover it completely. The neetlle, thus held, is to be introduced into the wound, and placed close to the muscular surface of the peritoneum; the fore finger of the right hand is to be somewhat drawn back, and placed obliquely across the convexity of the needle, wliich is now to be thrust from within outwards, at a greater or less distance from the edge of the wound, according to its different size. In this way the other needles are to be passed through the opposite edges of the wound. So many stitches are to be put in, at equal distances, as the extent of the wound may seem to require. An assistant then brings the two edges of the wound into contact, with his hands laid flat, and the Surgeon ties the threads together with a simple knot, and a loop. For the support of the union, strips of sticking plaster are to be applied in the interspaces, which are most advantageously carried round the whole belly, crossed on the wound, and the ends applied in opposite directions. The wound is to be covered with a pad and compress, and the whole supported with a belly-bandage. The position of the patient must also be such that the walls of the belly should be loose, and the edges of the wound as little stretched as possible. 514. According to Graefe (a), the traumatic reaction occurs equally whether the suture perforate the peritoneum or not; but in the latter case the wound is always less perfectly closed within. Instead of the fine flat thread he uses a soft tape, a line and a half in breadth, provided at each end with a flat needle, having a double cutting edge in front, and a trans- verse eye, at which part the thread must be well flattened and oiled. The needle is to be held with the thumb, middle, and fore finger, not far from its eye, and pressed, in like manner, with its convex surface on the front of the fore finger of the other hand, so that the point and cutting edges may be covered. The needle is then introduced within the belly, placed against the peritoneum, half an inch from the edge of the wound, and the wounded surface being stretched by an assistant, and inclined somewhat outwards, the needle is to be thrust obliquely from within outwards with a sudden thrust; and then the same is with the other needle upon the opposite side. The union is to be assisted with circular sticking plasters, and so on, as in the previous case. Compare also Weber, above cited, p. 39. 515. The treatment of all penetrating wounds of the belly must be strictly antiphlogistic. Repeated bleedings, quiet, great abstemiousness, and simple mild drinks must be employed. The dressing should be simple, and should be renewed as rarely as possible. If stitching have been em- ployed, the threads must be removed when it is presumed that union has taken place (from the sixth to the eighth day) ; but the union must be supported with sticking plaster and bandage, till the scar is completely perfected. In order to prevent a rupture after the cure is effected, the place of the scar must be always supported with proper pressure. If after union of the wound of the belly with stitches, vomiting and hiccough occur, if the wound inflame smartly, and these symptoms do not yield to the anti- phlogistic treatment, and to the use of opium, the threads must be loosened or entirely removed, and the wound merely held together with sticking plaster and bandage. knnde^voTix'pMr Gefabr beim Kaisersdmitte; in tlie Journal fur Chirurgie und Augenheile-