II.-OLD SOLUTIONS OF CONTINUITY.* A.—ON SOLUTIONS OF CONTINUITY WHICH DO NOT SUPPURATE. I.—OF UNNATURAL JOINTS. :| Hildanus, Fabr., Obseryationes Chirurgicaj, cent. iii. obs. 91. Salzmann, De articulation!bus analogis, qua) ossium fracturis superveniunt. Argent., i' 1718. i A Meckern, Job, Observat. Med.-Cbir., cap. Ixxi. White, Chas., Cases in Surgery. London, 1770. if ScHMUCKEB, JoH. Lrb., Vermiscbte Chirurgische Scbriften. 3 vols. 8vo. Berlin, i 1785-97. Laroche, Dissertation sur la nonreunion de quelques Fractures, et en particulier de 5 celle du Bras, et sur un moyen nouveau de gu6rir les fausses articulations qui en re- ^ sultent. Paris, an xm. Physick, P. S., in New York Medical Repository, vol. i. p. 122. 1804. 8vo. Roux, De la Resection ou Retranchement des parties d’Os Malades. Paris, 1812. IWabdrop, in Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. v. p. 358. Boyer, above cited, vol. iii. p. 86. Langenbeck, Von der Bildung ■widernatiirlicher Gelenke nach Knochenbriichen; in his neuer Bibliothek fiir die Chirurgie und Ophthalmologic, vol. i. p. 81. Oppenheim, Ueber die Behandlung der falschen Gelenke ; in Rust’s Magazin, vol. xxvii. p. 203, has collected all the hitherto known cases of treatment of false joints. Buchanan, Thomas, An Essay on a new mode of Treatment for Diseased Joints, and the Non-Union of Fracture. London, 1828. 8vo. Amesbury, Joseph, Practical Remarks on the Nature and Treatment of Fractures, &c. London, 1831. 8vo. 2 vols. Seerig, De Pseudarthrosi de fractura proficiscente. Regiomont, 1838. Oppenheim, Ueber die Behandlimgs weisen der Pseudarthrosen und eine neue Heil- imethode derselben; in Hamb. Zeitschrift fiir die gesammte Medicin, vol. v. pt. 1. Brodie, Sir Benj., Clinical Observations on Ununited Fractures; in London 'Medical Gazette, vol. xiv. p. 676. 1833-34. Reisseisen, De articulationibus analogis, quae fracturis ossium superveniunt. 712. When the two ends of a broken bone, not united by firm cartilage, are covered with cartilage, or the soft parts have got between them, an [• Although, as translator of this work, I am of necessity compelled to follow the course which the Author has thought right to pursue, yet I cannot avoid stating, in reference to this division of his Book, tliat it appears to me improperly named and misplaced, and far from well arranged and com- posed in itself. “Old Solutions of Continuity, consisting of those which do not and those whieh do suppurate." Among the former are included enduring solution of parts which have originated in Injury, as unnatural joints and tom ptrineum, with original imperfect (or as it is the fashion to say, abnormal) formation of parts, as liare-lip and cleft palate, between which there is neither analogy nor connexion. The latter comprehend ulcers of various kinds, which are as various in their times of appearance, from the period at which the action causing them has been set up—and fistulas, which have really (of the three) the only pretension (slight indeed as it is) to be called old solutions of continuity, as they really are none other than a chronic condition of abscess; thatis, an abscess which the constitution has not had sufficient power to fill up and obliterate with new parts, although it is capable of sustaining with less or more effect upon itself, the suppurative disposition already esta- blished J. F. S.]