290 QUICK UNION, OR [(1) The reader will probably be struck with the peculiarity (to us) of the desipia- tion, “ quick union,” applied to the immediate and more simple mode by which divided animal structures unite ; but it is the expression used by the author, and as his translator 1 have no right to vary it, merely because it is a phrase to which our ears are not accus- tomed. It is also to be noticed that Chelius employs the expression “ quick union ” as synonymous with “ union by the first intention,” as may be seen in the preceding note, when he enumerates the kinds of union mentioned by IIcnter and Meckel. Hut this is incorrect, as it is evident by the term “ quick union” he means the union by ad- hesion of Hunter and other English surgeons, and not “ union by the first intention,” which although enumerated by Hunter as one form of union, has long since been dis- carded in this country.—J. f. s. The adhesive inflammation, in connexion with wounds, is thus described by John Hunter :—“ It first throws out the blood, as if the intention was to unite the parts again. The newly cut or torn ends of the vessels, however, soon contract and close up, and then the discharge is not blood, but a serum, with the coagulating part of the blood, similar to that which is produced by the adhesive state of inflammation, so that they go through the two first processes of union; therefore the use of the adhesive inflammation does not appear so evidently in these cases as in spontaneous inflammation.” (p. 368.) Although the account of adhesive inflammation given by Astlev Cooper is not so complete as that given by modern writers, who have had the opportunity of employing the microscope, yet it is well worthy of attention ; and it is to be borne in mind, that although the publication of his opinions are only comparatively of modem date, yet are they the same which he had for years taught in his class-room. “ When an incision is made,” says he, “ into a part which has b^een affected by adhesive inflammation, viz., the cellular membrane, a quantity of serum is found effused around the inflamed part, and in the part itself a yellow and semi-transparent substance having the appearance of ' jelly, though different in its nature, (p. 97.) When adhesive matter has been formed, blood-vessels soon enter it, and in a short time it becomes organised ; the vasa vasorum are elongated by the force of circulation, and enter the newly formed substance, sending • out minute ramifications. On cutting into adhesive matter within twenty-four hours ; after it has been deposited, small bloody spots may be seen, marking the future situation ; of the vessels which nourish it; but it is not till ten days after it has been formed, that t any considerable portion of adhesive matter becomes entirely organised; for if injected,. you will not completely succeed through every part of the newly formed substance, until! ten days after the injury, and not even so soon in certain structures. When vessels - elongate, they have not the character of arteries in general; they take a serpentine and! tortuous course. It has been thought that the new vessels originated in the effused sub- - stance ; but they are formed by the elongation of the vasa vasorum of the surrounding: arteries,'which become dilated, lengthened, and serpentine; and the degree of vascularity^ will be in proportion to that of the part subjected to the adhesive process.” (pp. 99,100.) The process of union by adhesion, according to the modern views generally held, is thus briefly described by Bennett (6):— “ When an incision has been made in the skin, blood flows from the divided capil-1 laries, until they are obstructed partly by their own contractility, and partly by the coagulated blood blocking up the cut extremities. The early phenomena of inflamma-i tion now manifest themselves, the capillaries become distended and engorged with, blood, and at length exudation or the essential phenomenon takes place. After a time.t which varies according as the blood more or less abounds in fibrin, the cut surface is glazed as it is called, that is, the exudation has coagulated on the surface, and is trans. formed into plastic lymph. If now the parts are accurately brought together, little more exudation takes place. Cells are formed which rapidly pass into a fibrous form-, ation and healing or union by the first intention is the result.” (p. 61.) “ The exuded matter,” says Wharton Jones (c), “ from being at first serous, comes a last to contain a greater or less quantity of fibrine or fibriniform matter (oxyprotein' and in this state is a clear viscid fluid, usually called lymph. As tliis fluid is the sam; as the plasma of the blood, it of course has the same properties, physical and chemi It may remain fluid, or coagulate; and having coagulated, the serum may or may no be separated. In the latter case, the exuded matter is gelatiniform ; in the former, th coagulum is consistent or diffluent, according to the proportion of fibrine or oxyprotei contained in the exuded matter. The serum which is separated, may eitlier lie soon remove by absorption or collect. Examined microscopically, the recently exuded matter apiieai (n) I..elirbuch der ChirurKic, $ 209. (i) Treatise on Inflammation. (c) Quoted at the Iiead of tlic mvision.