SYMPTOMS OP 362 madness here,’ said the gentlemen. He had scarcely spoke, when in a moment the doc quitted the^ sop, and with a furious bark sprung against the wall, as if he would seize some imaginary object that he fancied was there. ‘ Did you see that?’ was my reply ’ ‘ Wliat do you think of it ?’ ‘ I see nothing in it,’ was his retort; ‘ the dog heard s(;me noise on the other side of the wall.’ At my serious urging, however, he consented to excise the part. I procured a poor worthless cur, and got him bitten by this dog, and carried the disease from this dog to the third victim. They all became rabid the one after the other, and there my experiment ended. » * * i have again and again seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled ferocity depicted on his countenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain. At other times, he would stop and watch the nails in the partition of the stable in which he was confined, and fancying them to move, he would dart at them, and occasionally sadly bruise and injure himself, from being no longer able to measure the distance of the object.” From this state, however, “ one word recalls him in a moment Dis|>ersed by the magic influence of his master’s voice, every object of terror disappears, and he ■ crawls towards him with the same peculiar expression of attachment that used to cliarao- • terise him. Then comes a moment’s pause—a moment of actual vacuity; the eye slowly ■ closes, the head droops, and he seems as if his fore feet were giving way and he would 1 fall; but he springs up again, every object of terror once more surrounds him, he gazes ii wildly around, he snaps, he barks, and he rushes to the extent of his chain prepared to meet his imaginary foe.” (pp. 131, 2.) (2) “ It is not every dog that, in the most aggravated state of the disease, shows a i disposition to biteand mentions the case of a Newfoundland dog, the details of which i are of the deepest interest. “ On the other hand,” he says, “ there are rabid dogs whose » ferocity knows no bounds. If they are threatened with a stick, they fly at, and seize it, . and furiously shake it. They are incessantly employed in darting to the end of thdr r chain, and attempting to crush it with their teeth, and tearing to pieces their kennel, or the wood work that is within their reach. They are regardless of pain. The canine teeth, the incisor teeth are torn away; yet, unwearied and insensible to sufiering, they continue their efibrts to escape. A dog was chained near a kitchen-fire. He was inces- sant in his endeavours to escape, and when he found that he could not effect it, he seized, in his impotent rage, the burning coals as they fell, and crushed them with his teeth. If by chance a dog in this state effects his escape, he wanders over the country bent on destruction. He attacks both the quadruped and the biped. He seeks the village street or the more crowded one of the towm, and he suffers no dog to escape him. The horse is his frequent prey, and the human being is not always safe from his attack.” (p. 140.) (3) “ In almost every case in which the dog utters any sound during the disease, ti there is a manifest change of voice. In the dog labouring under ferocious madness it it is perfectly characteristic. There is no other sound that it resembles. The animal is « generally standing, or occasionally sitting, when the singular sound is heard. Thea muzzle is always elevated. The commencement is that of a perfect bark ending abruptly li and very singularly, in a howl a fifth, sixth, or eighth higher than at the commencemenLiti Dogs are often enough heard howling, but in this case it is the perfect bark and the per- it feet howl rapidly succeeding to the bark. “ Every sound uttered by the rabid dog is more or less changed. The huntsman, who knows the voice of evei’y dog in his pack, occasionally hears a strange challenge. He I immediately finds out that dog, and puts him as quickly as possible imder confinementtJ Two or three days may pass over, and there is not another suspicions circumstance about t the animal; still he keeps him under quarantine, for long experience has taught him to r listen to that warning. At length the disease is manifest in its most fearful form. “ There is another partial change of voice to which the ear of the practitioner will by degrees become habituated, and which will indicate a change in the state of the anim^ i quite as dangerous as the dismal howl; I mean when there is a hoarse inward bark* with a slight bnt characteristic elevation of the tone. In other cases, after two or distinct barks will come the pecnliar one mingled with the howl. Both of them wifl terminate fatally, and in both of them the rabid howl cannot possibly be mistaken. (p. 138.) .,,,1. (4) The dog not only “ can look at, lick np, and drink water and other fluids, as b^* described, bnt Youatt says, has “ an insatiable thirst,” resnlting from the altered cm-- racter and diminished qnantity of saliva presently noticed :—“ The dog that still has full power over the muscles of his jaws continues to lap. He knows not when while the poor fellow labouring under the dumb madness,^ presently to be descriM,*" whose jaw and tongue are paralysed, plunges his muzzle into the water-dish to his ver^ eyes, in order that he may get one drop of water into the back part of his month u r. r- r-a « 7