324 STICKING PLASTER. opposite directions, and the two ends then fastened with the continuous turns of the circular bandage. In longitudinal wounds of the extremities a circular bandage is employed, which is divided at one end into heads, an ' inch broad, and, at a proper distance, according to the thickne.ss of the limb, is furnished with slits. The middle of the bandage is to be placed on the side of the limb opposite to the wound, both ends are to be brought towards the wound, the heads drawn through the slits, and properly carried on in circular turns, and in opposite directions. If the bandage be to act, specially, on the bottom of the wound, a gra- duated compress must be applied on both sides, and the bandages drawn together upon them. The influence of the uniting bandages is never to be too much relied on, as the linen always, more or less, yields, and gets dis- placed. Therefore bandages, when the union of the wound is effected by other means, are applied only to assist the union, prevent the retraction of the parts, and so on. An expulsive bandage, in many cases, answers the same object; for instance, in amputations. [As to the use of bandages in wounds, I must confess I am no advocate for them un- less they are absolutely necessary to prevent the parts dragging asunder, and then only the least possible quantity should be employed. A simple spiral bandage carried once over the wound, and extending a little above and far below it, if from the pressure on the superficial veins there be tendency to serous eflFusion in the cellular tissue, or a many-tailed bandage is amply sufficient. A quantity of bandage of many thicknessei as used even within my recollection is very detrimental, as heating the part and tending to promote suppuration, which it is desirable to avoid.—j. f. s.] 312. Sticking Plaster, {Heftplaster, Germ.; Agglutinatifs, Fr.,) which is most especially employed as a means of closing wounds, operates more certainly than the bandage. When the surface of the wound^has been pro- - perly dried, and the parts brought into suitable position; the one end of the j sticking plaster is to be applied at sufficient distance from, and on one side • of the wound, to be held fast there, and when the edges of the wound are ! brought into the closest contact, the other end is to be drawn across them,, and pressed down on the other side. The first piece of plaster is to be laid t upon the middle of the wound, and then as many on both sides as wiU I bring the edges in perfect union, and cover the wound itself uniformly.. In longitudinal wounds of the limbs, the middle of the plaster may be laid ! directly opposite to the wound, and the two ends may be brought to- - Avards the wound, the one passing through a cleft in the other, crossing j upon, and thus uniting, the wound. If the sticking plaster is to be ap- plied on a part covered with hair, the part should be first shaved. In making the sticking plaster, the emp. adhcesiv. should be spread not too thick, but sufficiently so, upon strong linen. In small superficial wounds English sticking plaster (court-plaster) answers the purpose. [The old surgeons, though mostly relying on bandages and sutures, employed a sort of sticking plaster, though differing from the kind now used; thus Thomas Gale, wheu describing “ briefely the cure of a simple and small wounde, where the skynne onely is divided or cut,” says:—“ You shall aptly ioyne the lippes or sides of the wounde. together, so enen as possible you can : then make a stufe wythe towe and the whj'te of an egge mixed with a little salte, and apply it to the wounde, then roll and bynde it accordyng to arte, and this is sufficient in such kynde of woundes. You must also eommaunde the Pacient that he exercise not the wounded member, least that he causeth accidentes to falle to the wounde, as inflamation, fluxe of humours, dolour, and payne, &o— • * • If the wounde be great in the fleshe, and yet without accidents, you shall beginne your cure as iu the chapter before, (the previous paragraph,) that is, by comprisyng and loyning the sydes of the wounde together, and theu rollynge and byndyng it. But if the wounde he bigge, wyde, or elsouerthwarte the member, so that rollinge and binding are not sufficient; than you are compelled to use stiching, of which there be diners