714 TREATMENT OF closed with sticking plaster For tlie purpose of rendering tlie openinjrsj^^ i ? callous, after perforating the cheek, the introduction of a sufficiently y | thick thread, first smeared with dig&stive salve, and subsequently with'. | c drying remedies, and to be moved daily till suppuration have ceased, Iias.N ^ been recommended ; in that case, the closing of the external fistulous s opening first takes place, which, if small, may be effected by frequent!’, touching with lunar caustic; or, if larger and very callous, by paringi,. ] with the knife, and drawing together with sticking plaster. The apertures i is also sometimes attempted to be kept open, by the introduction of a» * golden or leaden tube, over which the external wound heals. | Duphcenix penetrates the cheek with the bistoury, and puts a canula into the inner lialf If | of the wound, for the purpose of preventing its union, and at the same time to conduct t I the spittle into the mouth, till the external wound, the edges of which are brought ;i | together with sutures, has healed. | Atti (a) introduces, into the opening made with the trocar, a leaden canula, the end d | of which in the mouth he splits into three, and bends back on the membrane lining the r i cheek; the outer end must not reach the skin, and is kept in its place by a thread carried d ! round the ear. After a sufficient time the thread should be divided, the canula removed d | from the mouth by the nail of the forefinger, and the internal opening remains per- ■■ | manent ; ' 3. The membrane of the cheek is to be penetrated twice, obliquely at i ; the bottom of the fistula,with a trocar, and through these openings a le^en t thread is introduced, the middle of which should lie in the bottom of the e | wound, and the ends projecting tvithin the mouth, are to be brought t | together and cut off near the inside of the cheek. The external wound is > | to be closed by the twisted suture. The spittle flows along the leaden:: | thread into the mouth, the external wound closes, and the thread drops into . 1 the mouth. This treatment is preferable to the others, as no repeated i | bandaging of the wound is necessary. I have proved this plan in several ' | cases where other modes of treatment have been employed without : i benefit {b). 1 Croserio (c) proposes, instead of perforating the cheek from without to within, accord- ;• jl ing to the plan of Deguise and Beclard, to thrust the trocar from within outwards, < ' also to make the second perforation with a trocar from without inwards, the canula of i which has no shoulder, and therefore after the introduction of the leaden thread may ‘ i be withdrawn through the mouth. 4. In simple fistula, the membrane of the cheek should be pierced with : i the bistoury, and the external edges of the fistula brought together. But i ) complicated fistulas must be cut out, and the outer edges of the wound 3 i brought together (c?). ■ Bonafont (e) exposes the Stenonian duct to the extent of a centimetre, isolates the c I corresponding ends of the fistula for some millimetres, perforates the cheek with a » j trocar, draws the end of the Stenonian duct, with a thread into the canula, which is left i I behind, and fastens the thread in a cleft of the eanula. The union of the external wound : 1 is effected by suture. - [The fistulous orifice into the parotid duct, resulting either from abscess of the .' ! gland or any other cause, is not so easy of union as Cuelids would wish to infer, but on •• the contrary often very tiresome to treat. Desault pimctured the cheek with a trocar : and canula, through the fistulous opening, and introduced a seton into the mouth. The - seton was removed daily, and gradually increased in size till a permanent passage into 3 (nlUEOiN ; ill Diot.de Mcdec. etChirurg. Prat., vol. viii. p. 225. (5) Deouise; in Journal de Mcdecine, etc., par CottvisART, etc., vol. xxi. llEcr.ARD; in Archives Gcnerales de Mcdecine, Octobre, 1824, p. 285 ; in Rioherand, Histoire des Progrcs recens de la Chirurgie, p. 28. Vernes ; in Journal General de Mcdecine, Nor. 1828, p. 270.—Docs he use a golden tliread in the '■ same treatment ? (c) Archives Gimerales do Mcdecine, Mai, 182S, - p. 137. (d) JoBEHT, alwve cited. (e) Annalcs de Chirurgie, .Aout, 1S41.