HENRY CLINE ON THE 31G to secure the vessel with a needle and ligature, but as the bleeding ceased before this could be efiFected he did not persist. March 5. Again very profuse bleeding, which was stopped by the application of some styptic. March 9. As fresh hceniorrhage had taken place the bleeding vessel was sought for, found near the sciatic nerve, and the actual cautery then applied by Cline, which im- mediately stopped the flow of blood. In its application he did not complain of any pain. Since that time he had no repetition of the bleeding, continued to improve in L4lth', and during the course of the month was able to sit up, and ultimately recovered. ' Clinical Observations. In order that my intention in applying the actual cautery, in the cases just mentioned, may be understood, I shall make some remarks on after-hmmorrhage, commonly so called, and on the use of the actual cautery in cases of hajmorrhage after operations or other injuries. By after-haemorrhage is meant a bleeding that takes place when the wound has been closed up and dressed, and the patient put to bed; and it may happen at various periods after the operation. Such occurrence is particularly painful and alarming to the patient, as parts require to be disturbed which are in a state of inflammation, and if the bleeding be some hours after the operation, the inflammation is considerable, and the pain greater than when the parts are uninflamed. These cases are also very anxious and harassing to the surgeon; for, as he is unaware of the time of the occurrence of the hsemorrhage, the patient may die in his absence. I do not purpose entering into all cases of after-hsemorrhage, nor into those which, coming on two or three hours after the operation, are generally stopped by removing the coagulum and all extraneous and irritating matter except the ligatures, and exposing the face of the stump to the air, applying cooling lotions, and paying attention to the state of the bowels, but only to those cases which occur during the healing process, are obstinate, and very much reduce the patient. Eight or nine years since, this subject passing through my mind, and reflecting upon it, it seemed to me that those bleedings arose in consequence of the want of adhesive inflammation; that instead of an effusion of coagulable lymph, an ulcerative process commenced, and perhaps I might say that the ulcerative inflammation succeeded the application of the ligature instead of the adhesive. Now, from what one observes to follow the application of a high temperature to living animal bodies, it seemed to me that the actual cautery would be most likely to bring on quickly the adhesive inflam- mation, just as in a scald or burn, though serum is thrown out so as to resemble a bladder of water, yet flakes of coagulable lymph are seen floating about in it. I therefore at that time applied the actual cautery to the carotid artery of a dog. As regards the case of J. G., it may be asked what effect could sarsaparilla have in checking haemorrhage ? to which I reply, I gave it from having observed that it has con- siderable power in tranquillizing the arterial system; and hence conclude that if it re- lieve the thrilling and throbbing of the pulse, the irritability of the arteries, and produce in their extremities a healthy action, independent of its improving the general health, we may consider it an auxiliary in stopping the haemorrhage. But 1 do not mean to say that when taken into the circulation it has any chemical operation in producing this efl'ect. When I saw the patient on the 27th of May, I found the dressers alternately relieving each other in compressing the artery, and with which they had been occupied during the whole night, as nothing could be done with the tourniquet. I tliought it extraordinary that the tourniquet would not stop the bleeding, and therefore myself put it on, carefully placing the pad upon the artery, and then screwed it up, using as much force as I thought safe, taking care to avoid such as would crush the muscles, which might be easily done with so powerful an instrument, but the bleeding continued, and I therefore determined to use the actual cautery. Having first cauterized the aneurismal part, as I have called it, of the artery, which caused no pain, 1 then passed the canula up into tlie sound part of the vessel, and as soon as the red heat had to the eye subsided, the cautery iron was run up the canula which caused extreme pain, along the artery and its accompanying nerve, as much it seemed as the circular incision in amputation. The object of using the canula was to conduct the hot iron up to the spot to be cauterized ; otherwise, as soon as it touches the vessel it is stuck fast, and you cannot pass it furtlier up. Besides, if this did not hap- pen, few have so good an eye and so accurate a hand as not to miss so small an orifice as that of the artery; which, however, does not occur if the canula be used.