724 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. circumstances of artificial anus, to whicli first Scarpa and suijsequently DcpurTBEBi have paid especial attention, and of which they have given very excellent accoutK Physick’s operation is, however, well worthy of being better known, and it is therefore i here given from Dr. B. H. Coates’s report (a):— ^ “ The two ends of the intestines,” says Coates, “ were found, by careful exaruiua<a tion, to adhere to each other for some distance, and the form thus presented has beta < compared in this case to that of a double-barelled gun. The next method proposed by 4 Dr. Physick, was to cut a lateral opening through the sides of the intestines when they] were adherent. But not knowing the extent of the adhesion inwards, he thought ii | necessary to adopt some preliminary measures for ensuring its existence to such a deptbi as might admit of the contemplated lateral opening, without penetrating the cavity o|) the peritoneum. By introducing his finger into the intestine through one orifice, and j his thumb through the other, he was enabled to satisfy himself that nothing intervened* between them but the sides of the bowels. He was thus enabled, without risk, to pasM a needle, covered with a ligature, from one portion of the intestine into the other, througkj the sides which were in contact, about an inch within the orifices, which ligature wai* ■ then secured with a slip knot. This operation was performed on the 28th January,-yii 1809. The ligature was nearly drawn sufiiciently tight to ensure the contact of those^i parts of the peritoneal tunic, which were within the noose. When drawn tighter,hii produced so much pain in the upper part of the abdomen, of a kind resembling colic,* that it became necessaiy immediately to loosen it. The ligature in this situation, gradiHi ally made its way by ulceration through the parts which it embraced, and thus loosened ^ itself. It was at several periods again drawn to its original tightness. After aboutd three weeks had elapsed, concluding that the required union between the two folds ol i peritoneum was sufficiently insured. Dr. Physick divided with a bistoury all the parts* which now remained included within the noose of the ligature. No unfavourable! symptom occurred in consequence. On the 28th February, the patient complained of i an uneasy sensation in the lower part of the abdomen, and on the 1st of March he ei-s tracted with his own fingers some portions of hardened/aces from his rectum. On the* 2nd March two or three evacuations were produced in this manner. On the 3rd an.* enema, consisting of a solution of common salt, was directed to be given twice every.’ day. The first of these occasioned a natural stool, about two hours after its admini»« tration. The same effect was produced on the 4th, .5th, and Gth, and the discharges i from the orifices in the groin now became inconsiderable. Adhesive plasters, aided by.j compresses, were employed, not only to prevent the discharge offaces from the artificiadi opening, but with the additional object of procuring the adhesion of the sides. Thisii last effort was unsuccessful. On the 24th June, an attempt was made to unite them by * the twisted suture. Pins were left in for three days, and adhesion was in fact effected?! but owing to the induration of the adjacent parts, the wound again opened. On the * ) 27th July, a truss of the common construction, furnished with a very large pad, andu ! surmounted by a large compress, was applied to the wound. By these means the dis- ■ - charge oi faces from the groin was completely prevented, and the patient had regular* a evacuations per anum, except when from improper diet or cold, he became affected with# j diarrhaa. At such times, a small portion of the mere fluid matter escaped by the sides t of the compress. Not satisfied with this state of things, Dr. Physick made several i ? attempts to improve the patient’s condition. On the 2nd August, a mould of the parts' : was taken in plaster of Paris, and being covered with bucltskin, was employed as a pad for the truss. This expedient answered extremely well, as long as the patient continued in the same posture in which the mould was made; but as soon as the form of the parts' ^ was altered by a change of position,/eEces escaped from the orifice. A bandage was j ^ then applied to the body, furnished with a thick compress, and having that part of it t which crossed the patient’s back formed of elastic extensible wire-springs, such as are i used in braces. This also, however, proved ineffectual. The truss, with a compress - ; and a large pad stuffed in the common way, was then reapplied, and found to answer; i completely the purpose of preventing the discharge of faces, the hope of an * closure of the orifice being abandoned. On the 10th of November he was discharged. !; from the hospital in good health and spirits, and applied himself, with very good suc- cess, to acquire the profession of an engraver.” (p. 271-72.)] 921. When the intestinal scissors have divided the partition, which happens usually in from seven to ten days, and tlie separated part j of the bowel is found betiveen its arms, soothing clysters must be con- : Ca) Account of a Case in which a new and pccu- Professor of Surgerj' in the University of 1;; liar operation for Artificial Anus was performed sylvania. Drawn up for publication in * ' In 1809 by Philip Svno Physick, M.D., then American Med. and burg. Journal, vol. »• p*