GOO METTAUER’S OPERATION (2) As to the use of obturators, I think Mutter’s observations are-well worthy atten- tion. “ It is highly improper in these, as well as in all other ca.ses of the defect in young children, to use an obturator fastened by means of a spon/je, as the foreign body effectually prevents the closure of the opening. An artificial palate, fastened to the teeth or gunji, by preventing the passage of food into the nostrils, will, on the other hand, prove ex- ceedingly useful, as well as a source of decided comfort to the patient.” (p. 27.) Operation for Cleft in the Hard Palate. Mettaher has proposed and practised successfully, as has also Mutter, a mode of Staphyloplasty by granulation, as the latter calls it, in cases “ where there is a separation of the margins (of the fissure in the hard palate) to an extent which will notallow them to be approximated. * * * The first operation contrived by us in a case of this descrip, tion, consisted of a series of incisions more or less extensive, formed exterior to the margins of the cleft and parallel with them, extending from the faucial to the naaal surface on both sides. These incisions being designed as granulating surfaces, were not allowed to re-unite by the first intention, but kept apart by interposing between them small portions of buckskin or soft sponge, there to remain until suppuration should he well established and then to be removed. Incising from the supporting portions of the lips of the cleft a belt more or less wide and supported at each extremity by the natural continuity of the textures through which they may be nourished by blood, enables us to create an extensive surface for eliciting and rearing of granulations without the least hazard or danger of disorganizing the parts separated or their respective lips. In this condition they take on inflammation, which speedily terminates in suppuration; and granulations soon sprouting out from these newly created surfaces, fill up the incisions by which they are separated, and thus widen the lips to a greater or less extent. The first incisions are to be most extensive; and as the lips are expanded they should he less so, or the cicatrices may ulcerate or become disorganized and slough. The newly- formed parts cannot be safely incised until perfectly organized. It would be most safe to perform the succeeding sections exterior to the cicatrices and in the original texturei, as they granulate most readily and freely, and are not liable to ulcerate or slough. Should the parts be deficient in length, the method which we have been describing may be employed in a transverse direction guided by the views just submitted, but not to divide the tensor yjaZotf muscle. * * * Cures by this method must necessarily be tedious, and the time required for their accomplishment more or less protracted, as the oases are distinguished by fissures of greater or less extent, or lips thin or the reverse.” He there- fore proposes another more expeditious operation, which “ consists in making the sections of the lips of the cleft oblique instead of perpendicular, as in the preceding operation; and as it were to divide or split them, so as to separate the nasal from the faucial por- tions of the lips. This method unites the advantages of the flap and granulating process. # *■ * 'p)jg Surgeon commences the operation by denuding the margins of the_ lips of the fissure, as already described. As soon as the bleeding ceases, an incision is to be commenced in one of the lips, a little exterior to its margin and a few lines anterior to its uvulal verge. The marginal incision on the faucial surface should commence nearly a line and a half or two lines from the margin of the lip. At this point, the knife is to be inserted and directed in such a manner as to cut the lip obliquely from a line con- tinued from the point of its insertion parallel with the margin of the lip to the angle, to another line passing in or near the base of it on its nasal surface, thus forming me section in the diagonal between these points of the faucial and nasal surfaces of the hp® of the cleft. * * * It will always be found most convenient to dissect from die uvula upwards, as by that means the blood, which otherwise might essentially perplex and embarrass that step, will, in some degree, be avoided. These incisions should always extend a few lines above the angle, and must never be carried nearer than two or thn-e to the uvulal margin of the lip of the cleft.” The section of the opposite lip is performed in the same way, as soon as the bleeding from the first has ceased. “ The ligatures must be now introduced, and with as little delay as possible, or the lips mav become so tender as to render their application exceedingly painful; and should time be delayed, even dangerous. For this purpose the canulated needle-porte, as already directed, should be employed. * * * The sutures are in these ca.ses to be inserted a little interior to the margins of the labial cuts on their faucial surface, so as to permit a belt of the natural covering of each lip of the cleft to be interposed between the denuded margins and the incisions, and embraced by the noose of each of the sutui^ * * * Under no circumstances wdll it be prudent to begin the insertion of of the lips elsewhere than at the angle of the cleft. Although we have described tJii