HISTORICAL SKETCH. 6 In the Alexandrian school Surgery became more prominent, as it rested on its proper basis, anatomy. Erisistratus and IIeropiiilus made the first examinations of human bodies. We know of tlieir followers and their performances only from subsequent writers Aurelius Cornelius Celsus is tlie sole writer after Hippocrates (a period of 400 years intervening between tliem.) Although Celsus lived at Borne, his writings for the most part belong to the Greeks. In his seventh book he specially treats of surgical operations. After Celsus deserve to be mentioned Soranus, Archigenes, and Rufus. Claudius Galenus, born a.d. 131, lived at Rome under the Emperor Marcus Aurelius : such of his writings as treat of Surgery are, for the most part, commentaries on those of Hippocrates—as his 'YTro/xvjj/iara rpta elg to /3t/3Atov ’iTTwoKparovg Kar Ir^rpeiov—avra Trepl ay/awv—virofiy. TSCTcrapa apdpwv—virofiv. elg rovg cupopiarixovg. Besides which also his own Treatises, vrepl ru>y ewiSea-fMoy—Trepi fSdeXXwy, avrigwcurewg ■, aiKvag, kai ey)(apa^£wc Kai icaTagtcaanov—irepl twv irapa (pvcriv oy/cwv—and depa-ev Ttk-rjg /xedoSov jiifiXiov- After Galenus there is a complete stand-still, and up to the sixteenth century there are but few writers: Oribasius, Aetius, Alexander of Tralles, and Paulus of iEgina. With the fall of the Roman Empire and the invasion of the Anibs, came a period of darkness and barbarism. We find Surgery, at this time, in the hands of the Arabian physicians, characterized by the neglect of anatomy, with a copious instrumental apparatus, fear of the knife, and frequent employment of the cautery iron. The most remarkable men of this period were Ebn Sina and Abulcasem. The practice of Medicine and Surgery was, during this time, in Chris- tian Europe, in the hands of the clergy, and sank down to such imjier- fection, that the knowledge of operations, possessed by the Greeks, was no longer to be met with. In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, indeed, art and science raised themselves by the foundation of literary institutions; but, as their most special object was the education of ecclesiastics, there was little gain to Surgery. The latter was, at a subsequent period, com- pletely separated by two decrees of the Pope from Medicine, and the priests were forbidden every bloody operation on pain of excommunica- tion. At this time arose the barbery system, under which the barbers of the priests were employed by them for the performance of the lesser operations of Surgery. In Italy alone was there yet any striving towards improvement, and Surgery still partially remained in the hands of better practitioners. In the year 1311 Pitard, of Paris, collected the Surgeons into a com- pany, which formed itself into a college ; but, owing to the long-continued disputes with the medical faculty, and without advance in anatomyi Surgery remained in its restricted condition. [During a large portion of the fourteenth centurj'flourished in Englsjm John of Arden, who was born in 1307, and certainly livetl till after 13i o as, in a manuscript (IMSS. Sloane, No. 75, in Brit. j\Ius.) which, says, “ propriH manu meh exaram,” he declares himself 70 years oki “ regni regis Richardi 2"*' primo.” From examination of his works,, written in Latin, several manuscripts of whicli, together with many Englisli translations in IMSS. of the whole or part of his works, J!* the library of the British hluseum and in the Bodleian Librarj' at Oxfo > it is probable that he did not know much about anatomy, though perhaj^ ■■ II ( !• t i J