186 CAUSES OF PSOAS AND Peakson remarks, that “ during the progress of suppuration, as there is a remission of the more severe symptoms, the patient often imagines that he is recovering his health ; some degree of pain, however, and an inability of duly performing the motion of the parts always remain. He is, sooner or later, alarmed by the appearance of a soft tumor, which arises in one or more of the parts enumerated above. At the first it is rarely ac- companied with any discoloration of the integuments or pain, unless it be compressed. When the person stands erect, the tumour becomes more prominent; but its contents re- cede, either in whole or in part, when he assumes a horizontal posture.” He also notices, that “ if the contents of the abscess be included in a firm cyst, the long continued pres- sure of so large a body upon the lumbar vertebraj will sometimes induce a paralysis of the lower extremities.” (pp. 97-9.)] 181. The causes of this inflammation may be external violence, .severe strains, catching cold, rheumatism, gout, dyscratic affections of all kinds. Caries of the lumbar vertebrae very frequently accompanies lumbar abscess, of which it may be cause or consequence. [The cause of this disease is held by English surgeons in general to be disease of the vertebraj. This seems to have been first noticed by Pott, who, in speaking of the complaint which arises from what is commonly called “ strumous or scrofulous indispo- sition affecting the parts composing the spine,” says, that “ sometimes it is found in the form of bags or cysts, containing a quantity of stuff of very unequal consistence, partly purulent, partly sanious, and partly a curd-like kind of substance; and not unfrequently entirely of the last. Sometimes, under these bags or cysts, even while they remain whole, the subjacent bones are found to be distempered, that is, deprived of periosteum, and tending to become carious.” And then he comes to the disease now considered:—“ Some- times these collections erode the containing membranes, and make their way down by the side of the psoas muscle toward the groin, or by the side of the pelvis behind the great trochanter, or, in some cases, to the outside of the upper part of the thigh.” (pp. 467,8.) Astlev Cooper describes it as “ very often nothing more than an abscess, from the disease of the intervertebral substance which I have just spoken of, having its origin in inflammation of the spine and the intervertebral substance. The matter spreads till it reaches the origin of the psoas muscle, which passes into ulceration, and forms a bag, surrounded by a complete ring. The abscess proceeds as far as the tendon of the muscle, by Poupart’s ligament, and its further progress is restrained by the tendon; when it passes under Poop art’s ligament, between the femoral vein and the symphysis pubis, it has generally attained considerable magnitude, and has the appearance of femoral hernia. * * * If the abscess form on the side of the vertebrae, instead of the fore part, it is termed lumbar abscess instead of psoas.” (p. 460.) Abernetht says;—“ Lumbar abscesses in general descend along the psoas muscle, under Poup art’s ligamentthey “ also, in general, are not simple diseases; they arise from and communicate with carious vertebrae; which circumstance is, I believe, the cause of their frequent fatality. The first eight cases that I attended, after I had adopted a new mode of opening them, were simple abscesses, and not arising from disease of the bone, which led me to believe that they were more frequently unconnected with diseased bone than later experience has taught me. The general opinion of Sur- geons, in which I entirely concur, is, that lumbar abscesses most frequently arise in consequence of diseases of the vertebr®, and they should certainly all lie treated as if such was their origin(p. 143.) “ as,” he afterwards observes, “ we cannot know whether the bone be diseased or not.” (p. 159.) Lawrence speaks of “ the chronic abscess termed psoas or lumbar abscess, where, in consequence of the disease of the vertebraj of the lower portion of the back or loins, matter forms around that diseased part, and then descends through the loose cellular membrane covering the muscles along the side of the pelvis into die thigh; it may take a course towards the back, or may go in various directions either within or on the out- side of the pelvis.” (p. 396.) Dupuytren says:—“ Caries having been once established, the pus remains for a longer or shorter time in the carious spot, in the parts surrounding it, and especially in the cellu- lar tissue. It forms at first a cyst where the pus collects. As tlie quantity of pus increases the cyst descends; lengthens as it inclines to one or other side of die spinal column, or to both sides at once; the pus makes its way, pushing iRjfore it the lower end of the cyst; if it meet with any obstacle it spreads out, but contracts when pressed on by the neighbouring parts, and dilates again when relieved from die pressure. Having arrived