727 rectal fistula. Jibes (a), Hie intemal openiiis of rectal fetiila is most commonly found inmoliate y above the part wi.ere the internal membrane of the rectum oins the external skin, rarely about, but never higher than five or six lines; ,t least siieli was the ease in seventy-live eorpses in which Ribes examined ■ectal fistulas. . TAstlev Coovek mentions a case of fistula ^vliicli liad a very remarkable course A nan died of a discharge from a sinus in the groin, having also a ^siula inano; and upon racing the sinus in thf groin, it passed under Poupaut s ligament, and taking the course )f the vas deferens, descended into the^’stiua in ano. (p. 3-b.jj 927. These observations, which agree with my own experience, must issist the Surgeon in the examination of rectal fistulas. A thickish probe ihould be introduced liorizontally and nearly parallel with the perincBum, at east in women, because in them the opening of the rectum is less drawn n, than in the male, in whom the probe must be directed rather more jpwards. The probe should be introduced into the canal of the fistula, ind without leaving it, carried, towards the lower end of the rectum, where sometimes the opening is found, and the probe may be felt penetrating into the gut by the forefinger therein introduced. In many cases when the patient protrudes the rectum, and the edges are drawn aside with the angers, the internal opening of the fistula may be seen. If the examina- tion be not thus proceeded with, the internal opening must be sought at (the bottom of the fistula ; the wall of the rectum may be easily penetrated. If several external fistulous orifices be present, they all must be examined in order to determine whether they be connected with each other. The isxamination must be repeatedly made whilst the patient is on his side, with the trunk bent forwards, upon his back with the thighs drawn up, and liilst standing. Catgut bougies and injections may also be employed for the close examination of the state of the fistula. In the examination of incomplete internal fistula, those parts at which the patient has always specially felt pain, or which are indicated by softness, hardness, or laxness, must be carefully examined, partly with the finger and partly with the probe, which should not be hook-like and curved, but straight, as the canal of the fistula often stretches upwards (6) {par. 924.) The part, which about the anus is harder and painful to the touch, shows the bottom of the external blind fistula. The colour of the skin is here usually changed, and on pressure pus flows into the rectum. These symptoms, however, are often wanting, and the patient merely feels pain. 928. The cure of the rectal fistula which has an internal opening, is only to be effected by division of the sphincter muscle, and the partition between the fistulous passage and the gut. If the canal of the fistula extend far up, a relapse is more certainly prevented by beginning the di- vision from the external opening. Many observations support this, and there is the proof that the most important part of the operation for rectal fistula consists in the division of the sphincter muscle, whereby the col- lection of fajcal matter in the rectum is prevented, and the union of the walls of the fistula possible. An imperfect external rectal fistula does not always require this division of the partition, because if in such case due care be taken for the proper escape of ihepus, the stripping of the rectum is not so considerable as to render doubtful the connexion of the walls of the fistula with the neighbouring parts. The operation for rectal fistula must be (n) Recherclies sur 1st situation de I’Orifice in- terne dela Fistule a I’Anus et sur, les parties dans 1 epaisseur desquelles ccs ukcres ont Icur siege; in Revue Medioale, Historique et Philosophique." Paris, 1820, livr. i. p. 174. (6) SoHKEOEii, above cited, p. 98.