HISTORICAL SKETCH. 8 perty, which was subsequently sold for 432Z. sterling, and the interest thereon now produces rather more than 20/. The two endowments are , now consolidated, and the lectures on human anatomy and Surgery are called Arris’s and Gale’s Lectures.—j. f. s.] ; In this way, assisted by the advance of anatomy, was Surgery raised,, j by Pare, Franco, Fabricius IIildanus, Fabricius ab Aquapen- I DENTE, Severinus, and Wiesemann, in the sixteenth century, to a high J station. j In the second half of the sixteenth century actually commences the brilliant period of Surgeiy. Numerous wars and the establishment of public hospitals presented a rich field for observation, and the foundation of the Academy of Surgery at Paris collected scattered powers and aroused a general emulation. In France shone out Dionis, J. L. Petit, Mare- scHAL, Qdesnay, Morand (o), Louis, Ledran, Garengeot, Lafaye, Lecat, Lamotte, Ravaton, David, Podtead, Levret, Sabatier, Desault; in England, Wiseman, Cheselden (6), Douglas, the two Monros, Sharp, Cowper, Alanson, Pott, Hawkins, Smellie, and the two Hunters ; in Holland, Albin, Deventer, Camper ; in Italy, Mollinelli, Bertrandi, Moscati, Scarpa ; in Germany. Heister, Plattner, Bilguer, Brambilla, Theden, Richter, C. Siebold, and Mursinna. By this general cultivation has Surgery been brought up in modem times to an elevation which cannot be displayed generally but only in the history of the several operations. Boldness grounded on the progress of anatomy and physiology, simplicity in the methods of treatment, and scientific culture, distinguish it. The equal participation of all civilized nations in these effbits keeps up amongst them a contest for intellectual superiority in the ranks of improve- ment, while it makes any decisive award impossible. (a) He wa3 Secretary to the Academy of Sur- gery, and, on the opening of the schools in 1743, delivered a most admirable address, “ Discours dans lequel on prouve qu’il est n^cessaire au Chirurgien d’etre lettre,” in which he shows the necessity of a literary education for a Surgeon, and mentions incidentally that the royal declaration founding the Academy, required “ that the Sur. geons of Paris should be Masters of Arts before admission into the community, and that they should then pursue Surgery without mixing any mechanics,” “ loi precieuse,” s»ys he, “ qui, ' faisant une des epoques les plus memorables pour I’illustration de notre art, doit immortaliser celol (De la Pevronie) qui la sollicitfe et dont Im titres eminens sont soutenus par un meritc supe*- ( rieur.” Opuscides de Chirurgie, p. 118. Paris, 17u8. . 4to. (i) He established the first School of Anatomy in London, independent of the Barbers' and Sur- geons’ Company, at St. Thomas’s Hospital about j the year 1714. J