642 CHARACTERS OF PRIMARY which the disease shows itself is owing to anything peculiar in the kind of poison applied, but to the difference in the parts contaminated.” (p. 24.) “ The most important feature in the natural history of syphilis is,” says Lawkesce, ' “ the progress of the complaint from one part of the body to another; the succession of symptoms it shows in successive organs and textures; the frequent renewal of the dis- ease in the same organs, or textures, after it has apparently ceased. Some forms of the disease are attended with considerable suffering, great local suffering and considerable constitutional disturbance. When we find that these symptoms are capable of showing themselves, from time to time, in different parts; when we find the disease come on again and again in the same part; when we find that those affections require, as they frequently do, the employment of vigorous and active means of treatment, which exert powerful influences on the animal economy, we cannot wonder that the constitution ig frequently enfeebled by the disease, and that in some cases, patients ultimately sink under it. In this point of view, the nature of syphilis is sufficiently serious, though not so serious as formerly supposed.” (p. 72.3-24.)] 815. The operation of the venereal contagion pre-supposes a peculiar delicate structure of the part or a deprivation of its cuticle. Primary syphilitic sores therefore usually arise on the glans, and on the prepuce, on the buttocks, on the nipples, on the lips and tongue, according as the in- fection has occurred from connexion, from suckling children, from kissing, and the like. 816. From two to four days, sometimes longer, sometimes shorter (1), after the communication of the venereal poison in an impure connexion, there appears on some part of the or prepuce in men, and on the /aAia or nymphee in women, a red inflamed spot, accompanied w ith a smarting sen- sation, and usually in men with frequent erection ; this rises to a little vesicle filled with pale fluid, which after sometime breaks and leaves behind a superficial excoriation ; or a hard painful lump arises, which bursting forms a painful ulcer. These ulcerated spots enlarge, have more or less hard everted edges, surrounded with an inflamed edge, and having a foul larda- ceous bottom ; or they are often covered with scurf, are often very eating, or have everted but not hard edges. They spread more quickly or more slowly in breadth and depth, are more or less painful and inflamed, become sometimes even sloughy, cause considerable destruction, and often even bleeding (2). The pus secreted by venereal ulcers, is sometimes thin, sometimes of more consistent nature, of a yellowish-white or yellowish-green colour, and makes on white linen, spots like half-melted tallow. Its quantity is always more considerable than from the size of the ulcer might be ex- pected. After healing, scars remain, which have the same size as the pre- vious ulcers. [(1) John Hunter says:—“ I have known cases where the chancres have appeared twenty-four hours after the application of the matter, and I have known them seven weeks. ♦ * * An officer in the army had a chancre break out upon him two months after he had had any connexion with a woman.” (p. 232.) _ Ricord, in addition to this, observes that “ experience has shovvn him that on the third day of inoculation the pus of chancre became contagious and sometimes even on the second.” (p. 540.) (2) “ This like most other inflammations which terminate in ulcers, ^gin.s John Hunter, “ first with an itching in the part; if it is the glans that is inflamed, generally a small pimple appears full of matter, without much hardness, or inflammation, and with very little tumefaction, the glans not being so readily fumificd from inflammation as many parts are, especially the prepuce; nor are the chaners attended with so much pain or inconvenience as those on the prepuce; but if upon the franum, and more especially the prepuce, an inflammation more considerable than the former soon follows, or at least the effects of the inflammation are more extMSive aM visible. Those parts being composed of very loose cellular membrane, afford a ready