130 TREATMENT OF FROST-BITE. [Astley Cooper observes on this point:—“ Great care must be taken in these cases not to apply heat very suddenly ; even the common heat of the bed frequently occasions inflammation, which is extremely liable to gangrene, in consequence of the diminished nervous influence of the partand he mentions the case of a person who “ had been shooting, and had exposed himself to severe cold; and finding his feet benumbed on his return, he immediately put them into warm water. The consequence was that a gan- grene took place, of which, notwithstanding every care, he died.” (p. 216.) Larkky also observes that those soldiers who had been exposed to severe cold, and had oppor- tunities of warming themselves, suffered most. The cases just related confirm these statements.] 106. In reanimating a frozen person we must always commence with the lowest degree of warmth. The frozen person should be brought into a cold room and covered up (after he is undressed) witli snow or with clothes dipped in ice-cold water; or he may be laid in cold water, so liow- ever that his. mouth and nose are free. When the body is somewhat thawed, there is commonly a sort of icy crust formed around it; the patient must then be removed, and the body washed with cold water mixed with a little wine or brandy. When the limbs lose their stiffness and the frozen person shows signs of life, he should be carefully dried; put into a cold bed in a cold room ; scents, and remedies which excite sneezing, are to be put to his nose ; air is to be carefully blown into the lungs if natural breathing do not come on ; clysters of warm water with camphorated vine- gar, tickling the throat with a feather, dashing cold water upon the pit of the stomach. He is to be brought by degrees into rather warmer air ; mild sudorifics, elder and balm tea, with solution of acetate of ammonia, warm wine and so on, are to be given, in order to cause gentle perspiration. 107. In a similar way a frozen limb is to be thawed ; it is to be rubbed with snow or dipped in cold water, till sensation and motion return, when it may be washed with camphorated spirit, brandy, petroleum or essence of amber; cold, mild sudorific tea may be given to the patient, who is to be put to bed in an unwarmed room, with a view to keeping up a gentle perspiration for several hours. Frozen parts must always be handled with care, and no violence used, because they easily break. 108. When by hasty warming a frozen limb becomes much swollen, painful, red, blue, or in some parts even black and shrivelled like a mummy, and to outward appearance is mortified, it may, however, still be oftentimes recovered by the application of cold, and by gradual transition to warmth. But, if mortification have already taken place, its usual treat- ment must be employed. If superficial, the slough separates ; but, if the whole mass of the limb be affected, so soon as the mortification is defined, amputation must be performed. In many cases the mortified limb drops oflF, of itself, or the bone only has^ to be rawn through at the point of demarcation. It does not, however, follow that in this mortifica- tion amputation is to be rejected. My own opinion as to the fortunate results of amputa- tion performed at the proper time, and tlie disadvantage of delaying it, agree with tho.se of Larrey (a). 109. Chilblains {Perniones, Lat.; Frostbciden, Germ.; Engclurcs, Fr.) are erysipelatous inflammations of the skin, which, according to their degree, are accompanied sometimes with slight swelling and sensa- tion of heat and pricking, which after a little time often subside of themselves. Sometimes they are connected with considerable dusky-red or bluish swellings and severe pain ; sometimes with excoriation, arising from (a) As above, 72.