504 TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES splints are most suitable for all fractures of large bones, as those of the lower extremities. Only in children, or in fractures of small bones, may flexible splints be used, which are fixed with a roller or with separate* straps. Of the inflexible splints those made of firm wood, and which are quite straight, are the best. Between tliese and tlie limb, bags filled withi chaff are to be applied throughout the whole length of the latter, to* equalize their pressure (3). These splints should, if possible, be so large ■ as to project over the neighbouring joints; on the lower limbs they should! be applied on both sides, enclosed in a sufficiently large cloth, and fastened! with several straps. They render the so-called straw splints quite- superfluous (4). The fracture-plasters (empl. catagmatica of the ancients) are to be rejected on account! of their irritating properties. Many, however, employ empl. sapon., in order to diminish! the pressure of the apparatus, especially in those bones which are merely covered with skin.. [(1) No compress should ever be applied upon the seat of fracture; it is quite un-- needed, as the position of the limb should put the broken ends in proper place; it ist very improper, as it may cause ulceration of the interposed soft parts. Neither should any bandage, on any account whatever, be applied at first; the.* constriction it produces by becoming tightened, as swelling comes on, is at the least! inconvenient, as the bandage must be loosened again and again; for if not, severe and 1 unnecessary pain will be produced to the patient, and gangrene may follow, of which! I have seen examples. Even after all swelling has subsided, 1 think fractures do quiter as well, if not better, without any other bandage than those necessary to confine thee splints, as the limb is thereby less heated. (2) As presently shown, the use of starched or gummed rollers, which drjung,, exactly fit the limb, and form a firm strong case to it, are commonly used, in many? fractures, in preference to any splints. (3) The best material for padding splints, is thick flannel or blanket, in three or four t layers, and covered with linen. (4) The treatment of simple fractures by the immovable apparatus, as it is now called, ^ has within the last few years greatly superseded the use of splints, except in veryi oblique and unmanageable fractures. A method of this sort was known to and men- ■ tinned by Cheselden (a), who says:—“ I had learnt it from Mr. Cowper, abonesetteri of Leicester, who set and cured a fracture of my own cubit, when I was a boy at schod.l His way was, after putting the limb in a proper posture, to wrap it up in rags dipped ini the whites of eggs and a little wheat flour mixed ; this drying grew stiff, and kept the< limb in a good posture. And I think there is no better way than this in fractures, for r it preserves the position of the limb without strict bandage, which is the common cause* of mischief in fractures.” (p. 38.) Elsewhere, in speaking of the treatment of club-foot,; Cheselden (6) gives a plate showing the application of this bandage, from which it I appears he put on single strips of linen diagonally upon the leg, and crossing each other i in various Erections; and he makes one observation worth remembering:—“ There is i no bandage so equal as this for a fractured leg. I always use it, leaving that part uponi the tibia very thin, that if it grows loose by the abatement of a swelling, I can cut out* a piece and bend it closer. Upon a journey I once set the cubital bone of a gentleman’s i arm that was broke ; and, making use of this bandage, he the two next days rode long p journeys without any inconvenience.” (p. 453.) The reintroduction of an apparatus, on nearly the same plan, is due, I believe, to John n Lawrence of Brighton. Its advantage consists in the formation of light, close-fitting p cases or moulds of the limb, which, as they dry, are amply sufficient to keep the tx«e * and surrounding parts in proper place, and at the same time to permit free movement of i the whole limb, and if it be the leg, even of bearing the weight of the body and walking t upon it, without disturbance of the position of the bone, and without interference with 5 the process of union. This treatment, as efficient as it is simple, has also the advantage f of relieving the patient of the irksomeness of keeping his bed for several weeks, as so soon » as the bandage has become dry, he may be allowed to get up and move about without fear of retarding his cure. There is also in this plan, w'hatever the modification of it may be, the advantage that the linen case fits much more perfectly than any wood or tin ■: (a) The Anatomy of the Human Body, 11th IIban’s Operation* in Surgery by Gataksb, 3id Edition, 1778. ' Edition, p. 17J7. (b) See hia Additiona to the Tranalation of Lx