3S2 WOUNDS [I must confess that the cases of cure of this disease, related as liaving followed any one plan of treatment, are by no means satisfactory. 1 have seen opium, tobacco, bleeding, mercury to salivation, and other remedies employed, and also have known of a case or ' two left without treatment, and the results in all cases the same,—fatal In the ex- tremely few cases which have recovered with one treatment or other, I therefore jire- ■ sume that nature has had more to do with it than the doctor, as she has when the cases • have been left alone and recovered. At present our treatment of tetanus is completely empirical and has entirely failed; the only rule upon which we act being to repeat the same plan in the second under which the first case has recovered or been relieved; or, if the treatment have been unsuccessful, to adopt some other practice for the next case. One mode of proceeding, however, must be deprecated, viz., that of plunging the |)atieut into a cold bath, which I once witnessed during my apprenticeship; the result was, that the patient was almost immediately lifted out—dead.—J. F. S.J Second Chapter.—ON WOUNDS IN PARTICULAR. I.—OF WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. Quesnay, Prdcis de diverses Observations sur le Trepan dans des cas douteux; in the Memoires de 1’Academic de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 188. , Dease, William, Observations on Wounds of the Head, &c. Dublin, 1760. 8vo. Pott, P., Observations on the Nature and Consequences of Wound and Contusions of 4 the Scalp, Fractures of the Skull, Concussions of the Brain, &c. London, 1760. 8to. ^ —and in his Chirurgical Works, edited by Earle. London 1790. 3 vols. 8vo. Smucker, Chirurgische Wahrnemungen. Berlin, 1774. Vol. I. Desault, Treatise on Wounds of the Head; in his Qiuvres Chirurgicales par Xav. » Bichat. 3 vols. Paris, 1812. 8vo. Abernethy, Surgical Observations on Injuries of the Head; in his Surgical Works,.* vol. ii. p. 1. Loudon, 1815. 8vo. Louvrier, Prize Question. 1st die Durchbohrung der Hunschaale bei Kopfaerlet-; zungen nothwendig oder nicht? u. s. w. Wien., 1800. 4to. Mursinna, Prize Question. Ibid. Wien. 1800. 4to. Beck, Beobactungen und Bemerkungen fiber die Kopfaerletzungen; in Heidelberg.-.. kliuischen Annalen. Vol. III. Part III. 4to. Mynors, R., a History of the Practice of Trepanning the Skull and the After-treat-ij ment; with Observations on a new Method of Cure. London, 1785. 12mo. ScHREGER, fiber den Verband bei Schadelverletzungen. Erlangen, 1810. 4to. SuiTZER, E., Conspectus instrumentorum quae ad trepanationem adhibita. Accedentt novo trepanationis apparatu. Hafniaj, 1828. 8vo. VON Kern, V., fiber die Verletzungen am Kopfe und die Durchbohrung der Hein- schaalle. Wien. Brodie, B. C., Pathological and Surgical Observations relating to Injuries of thr Brain in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. part ii. p. 325. Schindler, H. B., fiber die Indication zur Trepanation, in Chirurgischer Hinsi^t Ein Beitrag zur Lehre von den Kopfverletzungen; in Heidelberger kliuischen Annalen. vol. viii. p. 1. VON Walther, Ph., fiber die Trepanation nach Kopvferletzungen; in the Joums fur Chirurgie u. Augenheilkunde, vol. xvi. p. 1; ibid., vol. xvii. p. 1. Gama, Traite' des Plaies de tete et de I’Encephalite', prineipalement de cclle qui len est consecutive. 2nd Edit. Paris, 1835. Vel-pead, De I’Operation du Trdpan dans les Plaies de tete. Paris, 1834. Compare also the works of Sabatier, Richter, Boyer, Zano, and A. Cooper. 380. Wounds of the Head ( Vulncra Capilis) are among the mast difficu and most important objects of Surgery. Tlieir great importance dei>eiK