637 TREATMENT. (2) It must not be overlooked that, in 1812, Gal^s, Apothecary to the Hopital St. Louis («'), made some very extensive inquiries on the subject of itch, and examined with the microscope more than three hundred of these animals, taken from the itch vesicles, ■which Avere always of the same form, but had sometimes six, sometimes mght legs, depending, as he believed, on variety of development. He confined one of these mites with a watch-glass upon his hand, and observed it penetrating the cuticle; a few ^oi^s after which three vesicles appeared, and the intense itching left no doubt ot the disease.] 804. The itch is sometimes more easy, sometimes more difficult to cure, (4 but never dangerous under proper treatment. If it be neglected, especially I with continued uncleanliness, it often changes its form considerably, so J that there are fewer pustules than thick scurf, and various degenerations of the skin, often resembling Lepra squamosa, with considerable thicken- ing of the skin and cellular tissue, and extensive ulceration, and as in pro- tracted ulcers, 749,) with the symptoms of long-continued general ailing, to wit, loss of appetite, weakness, hectic fever, swelling of the glands, and costiveness. If it be connected with other diseases, as scrofula, syphilis, scurvy, gout, rheumatism, and catarrh, it is always more obstinate and ill-conditioned. If suppressed quickly, asthma, inflammation of the lungs, consumption, dropsy, convulsions, blindness, diseases of the joints, and the like, may ensue. 805. In the treatment of itch, a simple and complicated form are dis- tinguished. In simple itch, when in an otherwise healthy person it has ex- ist^ for a longer or shorter time, it is always to be considered as a purely local complaint, and to be cured merely by local means. Complicated itch being in relation with the above-described general diseased conditions and dyscrasies, their treatment must be attended to. 806. Simple itch is cured by any remedy which destroys the itch-pustule and produces such inflammation in the skin that the cuticle mortifies and is thrown off. On this circumstance may be explained the great number of remedies and modes of treatment recommended for the itch, which only operates when in their composition they have such substances as bring about the above-mentioned effects, or are so energetically rubbed in that the rubbing itself produces the same result. Externally, frequent washing with soap and water is recommended, soap baths, frequent change of the washes, and the greatest cleanliness, flowers of sulphur with soap and water, or as a salve with fat, alone or in connexion with precipitate of mercury, white vitriol, extract of lead, with laurel berries, with muriate of ammonia, and the like. Also ointments of manganese, of white and black hellebore, ung. oxygenatum, washes of solutions of sublimate, of white vitriol and liver of sulphur, the sulphur fumigation highly valued by Gales and He Carro ; the English mode of cure, in which the patient lies naked between blankets and has his whole body rubbed thrice a-day with an !| ounce of ointment of hog’s lard, soap, sulphur, nitre, and hellebore, and J is put into a lukewarm bath only at the beginning and end of the cure ; f and, lastly, the rubbing in of black or green soap. 807. Friction, however, with Horn’s liniment and black soap is far W preferable to all other modes of treatment. Both remedies are simple in their application, and cheap, and cleanliness can be easily preserved. I Greasy salves are of all the remedies against the itch the most filthy, partly because, Sp specially if they have been long kept in store in the apothecaries’ shops, they quickly ^ ary up the itch and metastasis is produced; partly because their use is accompanied (,i) Quoted at the head of the Article.