75 ARTERITIS. j Redness, however, is not always present in an inflamed artery, and it often exists I vheu there is not any inflammation, when putrefaction has commenced, in consequence i| :>f the blood transuding. And Bouillaud says ;—“ It is right to observe, that the li 'edness of the internal membrane of arteries, even in the case where one is disposed f o refer it to acute arteritis, is not produced, at least in the great naajority of II rases, by a capillary injection, but rather by a kind of tinting or fixation of the ■jolouring matter of the blood on the internal membrane. Under this new point of view '.he inflammatory redness differs not essentially from that which is called cadaveric.^ I p. 403.) In inflammation of the whole thickness of the arterial walls, the outer coat is ijenerally red, in consequence of the active and free injection of the numerous vessels which wverywhere penetrate them; and sometimes there is even a slight infiltration of blood. 13ouilladd further observes, that “ after the internal coat, or even all the coats of an nrtery has been some time inflamed, it is easily detached in large flakes, the subjacent iellular tissue becoming friable.” I apprehend, however, that what he considers as flakes !)f the internal coat are really deposits of adhesive matter upon the coat, and not portions of the coat itself. The result of acute arteritis is then deposit of adhesive matter, and, as lilready mentioned in one of Hodgson’s cases, sometimes sufficient to fill up the tube of ihe artery, though, from the friction of the stream of blood upon the deposited lymph, IdociLLAUD considers that it is drawn into the stream, and that rather the “ inflammation determines the coagulation of the blood circulating in the artery, and thus is easily ex- blained how the secreted matter in addition to the mass of coagulum, may produce arterial obliteration.” (p. 407.) Adhesion of the lining membrane, and obliteration of the arterial tube, is one of the ‘•esults of arteritis; but, as will be presently shown, the efiusion of adhesive matter, and even the coagulation of the blood in the inflamed vessel, do not always cause morti- dcation of the limb, as Ddpuytren would seem to consider; that condition depending rather on the number of the vessels affected with inflammation, and the quickness with .vhich the adhesive deposit takes place, so that the supply of blood is cut off before the .collateral circulation can come into play. The usual consequences of inflamed artery are seen in the application of a ligature upon an artery, hi which case generally the collateral circulation is speedily established and no inconvenience to the limb is sustained, whilst, on the other hand, occasionally the circulation is restored so slowly that morti- acation to greater or less extent ensues. The following case of partial arteritis came under my own care, and for its previous ;iistory I am indebted to my intelligent friend Crisp of Walworth, whose patient he was. Thomas Batt, aged 21 j years, a grocer’s assistant, about five years prior to the present ame, (August 1843,) had an attack of rheumatic fever which lasted six or seven weeks; and since has had several slight attacks of pleuritis, for one of which he was bled, but neither were so severe as to confine him to bed. The bellows sound was always heard over the region of the heart. On the 1th of August he was seen on account of slight pain in the chest, for which he was ordered some aperient medicine with vin. antim. potass tart. The pulse at the left wrist was then felt and nothing remarkable observed. August 9. A. SI. Whilst putting on his waistcoat, he was struck with pain like the prick of a pin, about the middle of the left upper arm, and in the track of the brachial artery, which continued for about an hour, and during that time his arm “ became dull and cold as low as the elbow.” He saw his medical attendant at 10 A.si.; the arm and hand were then cold, and no pulsation could be felt below the arm-pit, at which part che artery was felt beating, but not forcibly, (90 a minute,) and over it great tenderness an pre^ure. The pulse of the right wrist was 100, and rather more powerful than usual. The ailing arm was ordered to be put in warm water for a quarter of an hour. 4^ p. M. In the same state as the morning; but has had five or six times a sensation af throbbing in the arm, with tingling and numbness of the fingers. 10 p.si. As he continued much the same, six leeches were applied to the arm-pit, and in opening draught ^ven immediately. August 10, A. M. Caustic was applied to the leech-bites, which had bled all night and were still bleeding, so that he felt rather faint from loss of blood; but the pulse of the right arm is not much affected. No pulsation in the left wrist; but the hand less cold than yesterday. There is great tenderness over the commencement of the brachial artery. R pulv. colchic., pulv. antim., aa gr.v. hydr. c. cretd, gr. x. quintis horis simi. August 11. Much the same : the artery painful on pressure; the powders continued. August 13. No change since the last report, except that the tenderness over the brachial artery is less and the hand not so cold. His bowels being confined, an aperient draught was ordered immediately, and the powders continued.