535 (d) Above cited. AND DISLOCATIONS OF. the bodies of the vertebra.” (p. 539.) And Boyer (a), without actually denying the possibility, seems to infer the impossibility of such an occurrence. Exceedingly rare, however, as these accidents are, there is no doubt that they do sometimes happen,, although I do not believe that a tithe of the so-called dislocations are dislocations at all; as, for instance, a person thrown from his horse, and falling on his head, has it bent under him, and cannot of himself restore it to its proper place, or he may fall from a ladder, as iu a case within my own knowledge, and the neck be twisted with the face over the shoulder, and unable to be replaced without assistance; but, as Aber- NETHY says, “ this is not dislocation; it is nothing more than we are sometimes ourselves 3 doing, the muscles are overstretched, and cannot act, the head is put in its proper 3 place, and all becomes right.” I must confess that I at first thought of like character were the cases quoted by Boyer, the one mentioned by Desault in his Lectures, of the advocate who dislocated his neck, merely by turning his head suddenly round to see 'who was coming into the room behind him; and the other shown by Chopart, of the young man in whom a similar accident happened from extreme rotation of the head, leaving it permanently inclined over the left shoulder; as also Bust’s case (V), in which, I after a severe fall on the head, the neck was completely bent to the right side, the i upper extremities paralysed, and accompanied with repeated attacks of convulsions and hiccough, in which replacement was immediately effected by seating the patient on the :ground, and forcibly drawing his head straight upwards. Since reading Schuh’s case (c), 'which will presently be given, I feel sure that these were cases of actual dislocation, land that the latter was, as well as Schuh’s case, reduced, although this could not be Idone in two other cases quoted by Boyer, as also mentioned by Desault in his Lec- tures, in one of which a boy, by turning heels over head, dislocated the right lower articular process of a cervical vertebra, and the head being turned towards the left shoulder, w'as so firmly fixed that it could not be replaced, although considerable force 'Was used ; whilst in another case, where one of the articular processes of a cervical ver- tebra was dislocated forwards, the child was destroyed during the attempts at reduction. The dislocations, entire or partial, of the vertebra, which are referred to by Law- irence {d) as dislocations, are, two of the four in St. Bartholomew’s museum, displacement with fracture; the third appears to me neither dislocation nor fracture, but simply a stretching of the capsular ligaments of the articular processes, as his own description proves; “the inferior articular processes of the fifth cervical vertebra are partially separated from those of the fifth having been drawn upwards ; but they have not been thrown forwards. The bodies of the same vertebra are partially separated behind, but they ■preserve their ■natural level and relative position in front.” (p. 392.) A case of this kind occurred under my own care, in which the lower end of the second cervical vertebra was separated from the intervertebral substance so far that a shilling laid flat might be thrust between them, but there was no displacement. In this case there were no symp- toms of injury of the spinal cord, although there was effusion of blood between it and its covering of dura mater. The boy had fallen on a post, died on the fourth day, having exhibited symptoms of severe injury in the belly, and on examination, his liver was found broken in two. Lawtience’s fourth case is a complete dislocation of the fourth from the fifth cervical vertebra, and a most remarkable case it is. The patient, a 3-oung man of twenty-two years, whilst “ carrying a heavy barrel on the back of his head and neck, slipped in descending some steps and fell on the buttocks, the burthen resting on the head and upper part of the neck. He was immediately deprived of sensibility in the trunk and limbs, and of all power over the voluntary muscles of those parts. When bronght to the hospital he was completely insensible and incapable of voluntary motion below the neck.” On the following day, “ there was pain in the lower part of the neck. He could move the arms very slightly, and had a little feeling in the front and upper part of the chest.” On the third day, “ he experienced a tingling sensation in the hands, and was Mnsible to impressions on the upper part of the arms and thighs.” He continued to decline, and died very early on the morning of the fifth day. On examination, “ after cutting away the muscles from the back of the spine, the cartilaginous surfaces of the superior articular processes of the fifth cervical vertebra came into view, in consequence of the inferior processes of the fourth vertebra having been completely dislocated for- wards, and remaining fixed in their unnatural position. The yellow ligaments connectine me lamina of the two vertebra were torn through, and the bifid apex ^ " ' spinous process lay in close contact with the basis of the fifth (a) Traite dcs Maladies Chirurgicalos, vol. iv. an der chap. IV. art. iv. ii (pl^Jedicinisch-chirurgiche Zeituna, vol. iii. l»qP-127. 1813. (c) F.inige Falle von Luxatiunen und Brlichen of the fourth On the front of the Halsgegend den Wirbelsaule; in von Kaimann s Medicinische Jahrbiicher des kais. kon. Oesterreichischen Staates, vol. xxi. New Series. lo^O.