CARIES. 683 deep-seated, frequently very severe, wide-spreading pain, with swelling, not very great bit sloiv, over which the colour of the skin is no changed After a shorter or longer time a swelling dependent on the collection of iiuriform fluid takes place, sometimes on tlie very seat of the diseased bone, sometimes at a distance from it, which, if the bone be covered with few soft parts, seems conneeted with it, and is surrounded at its base with a hard edge. If this swelling be opened, an ill-conditioned vanously-co- loured ichor is discharged, which sometimes has a very bad smell. It the destruction be great, hectic fever sometimes occurs. If the inflammation liave begun in the interior of the bone, it is often thereby changed par- tially, or throughout its whole extent, into a spongy, wide-spreading mass accompanied with severe pains which increase especially as the patient warms in bed ; the neighbouring soft parts are also much expanded, and finally fistulous sores arise (^Spina ventosa, Caries centralis, PcBdarthroce, Lat.; Winddorn, Germ.). Besides these appearances the diagnosis is specially determined by exami- nation with the probe, in which the bone is found rough and variously changed ; further, by the peculiar form of the ulcerated openings in the soft parts, which have a shrivelled appearanee, are contracted, and callous, or have their circumference surrounded with fungous excrescences. The silver probes employed in examining carious ulcers are frequently black- ened ; this, however, is no very definite sign, as it may be produced by any impure and ill-conditioned pus. The patient usually feels deep-seated pain. [“ In considering the primary attack of bone by caries, the question,” says Miescher, “ arises, in what way is the bony substance in this disease destroyed ? how is it that sup- puration, naturally producing a new substance, should in this case deviate into a destruc- tive process ? Comparison of caries with ulcers in soft parts throws no light on the subject, nor is it more set forth in them, how organic subtance is destroyed by ulceration. * * * Doubtless ulceration of bones or caries, is most suitable for clearing up this ambiguous question, because this tissue, abounding in earthy parts, even when deprived of life, for a long while resists chemical decomposition, and then may be distinguished in the pus or adhering to the very surface of the ulcer. We see it asserted in the works of not few writers, that in a carious ulcer the pus may be perceived to be as it were sandy to the touch, and containing bony particles oftentimes pretty apparent, and that if a probe cannot be used to the affected bone, that this alone certainly indicates caries. But nothing final can be obtained on this very point, as no one speaks distinctly upon the question. For what Hisily (a) contends for, that the surface of the bone always dies, is not sufficiently confirmed by argument. And the same may be observed as to Bell’s statement, that in caries there is often no exfoliation ; and who has even described that peculiar form of it which he calls phagedenic, which spreads most rapidly on every side, without any exfoliation, and merely by the violently excited action of the absorbent vessels.” (p. 210-12.) In the instances of caries in different bones examined by Miescher, he says:—“ In all these, minute bony plates were discovered dead, and more or less separated; some entirely separated lay on the surface of the ulcer, and beneath them was a soft substance, consisting of numerous vessels, overspread with bone, as is constantly observed in a separated necrotic bone; some still adhered to this soft sub- stance by some tougher filaments; in others the separation had proceeded less far, so that more or less still adhered to the bone itself. These dead plates were not only found on the external surface of the bone, but more frequently at that part where the ulcer penetrated more deeply, and their irregular surface appeared here and there covered with mucous dirty matter, which probably was produced by the decomposed soft sub- stance. Elsewhere, this soft substance only was observed; in which places the dead parte seem to have flowed off with the pus. The whole surface therefore attacked with canes presented various stages of separation of the dead plates, by which the roughness felt a probe, was easily explained as well as the corroded appearance of the softened bone, which although less wnspicuous, is discovered after ihe separation of large pieces of bone. From the review of these circumstances and of those connected (a) Uber den Brand der liarten und weichen Thoile. Goett., 1800, p. 96.