DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE 808 tion is always accompanied wirii _fracture of the splint-bone of the inner • ankle, or the latter is torn off. " ' Tliis dislocation may be incomplete, so that the shin-bone rests Iialf ' upon the navicular, whilst the other half remains on tlie astragalu». The foot then seems -but little sliorter, the heel projects a little, the toes ■ ; are pointed downwards, so that the patient cannot put the whole sole of ^ the foot on the ground, the heel is drawn up, and the foot to a great • extent immovable; the splint-bone is broken. 1093. Dislocations of the foot are always important, because they pre- - suppose great violence; and severe inflammation, and dangerous symptoms • ensue from the tearing of the ligaments and ft-om the dragging of the tendons and soft parts. Even in sligliter degrees, stiffness of the joint is to be feared. There often remains so great weakness of the ligaments of ’ the joint that the dislocation is reproduced by the slightest effort, if tlie joint be not strengthened by some mechanical apparatus. The disloca- i tions forwards and backwards, are generally less dangerous, than the lateral 1: i dislocations and rarely accompanied with evil complications. Even if the sf dislocation be not reduced, the foot is not completely unfit for use; but "'i very considerable deformity remains. Lateral dislocations are not always equally dangerous; they often are soon cured without any weakness or interference in the motions of the joint remaining. Dislocation outwards is mostly accompanied with more injury than that inwards. Simultaneous fracture of bones or tearing of soft parts render the case so much more dangerous; though experience shows that, in most cases, the limb may be preserved. 1094. The reduction of dislocation of recent occurrence, is usually not very difficult. The patient lies down, one assistant grasps with both hands the lower part of the shin-bone, and another, or in dislocation aside the Surgeon himself takes hold of the foot. The former makes counter-ex- tension in the direction of the shin-bone, the other extension, (in which the leg is bent at right angle on the thigh,) first in the direction which the foot had, and when the ligaments and tendons are sufficiently stretched, he brings the foot into its proper place. In dislocations backwards, the Surgeon with one hand presses the heel forwards, and with the other the shin-bone backwards, and the contrary in dislocation forwards. Com- plete reduction is indicated by the natural direction and form of the foot and its capability of motion. The ankle-joint should then be enveloped in linen, dipped in dispersing fluid, and fastened with a cir- ; cular bandage applied in a figure of Q(D form. Chaff bags are to be applied ' on eaeh side of the leg and splints upon them which extend over the ankle- joint as in fracture of the leg. The leg must always be bent at the knefr ' joint, and laid on a cushion, to relax the muscles. Antiphlogistic treat- * ment must be employed proportionate to the constitution, the dress~ ings moistened with dispersing fluid, and replaced every five or six days. When the pain and swelling have subsided, careful motion must be used, but only after a month, may the patient be allowed to walk gently about. If dislocation of the foot inwards, be accompanied with fracture of the splint-bone, its re-dislocation is most effectually prevented by the apparatus used for fractured splint-bone, which may be also applied in dislocation outwards, the splint with tte chaff bag being put on the outside of the leg. In dislocation of the foot backirards, re-displacement may be prevented by placing a splint and cushion Ixmeath it, (so that both project beyond the heel,) and a small cushion on the lower part of the shin-bone. i