289 WOUNDS. by a layer of coagulable lymph, poured out during inflammation, and often very difficult to be distinguished from it; but the union does not take place until the blood is expelled, or removed by absorption. That the coagulable lymph, after the red parts of tlie blood have been absorbed, effects the union, without increased vascidar action, is quite improb- able. The coagulating fluid which effects the union of wounds is not merely Uimph poured out in the state in which it circulates, but it is the product of inflammation, whicm to a certain extent, accompanies the reunion in every stage of its course. That the blood has nothing to do with the union is shown by the appearances which are observed in extravasation of blood into cavities, especially of the belly. The^ same objection applies also to the union of broken bones, without increased vascular action, which has been put forward by Dzondi (a). _ . . [The opinion above stated as to union by the first intention, a term which, according to John Thomson, was first employed by Galen, is that of John Hunter, and the objections to it are substantially those of Thomson. It may also be^ inferred, though not so distinctly stated, that Astley Cooper does not believe in the union by the first inten- tion, or more correctly, by blood. In speaking of wounds, he (&) directs “ the coagulated blood to be completely sponged away from the surface and edges of the wound, the edges to be brought together, and a strip of lint or linen moistened with the blood, to be placed on the part in the direction of the wound, when the blood by coagulating glues the edges together in the most efficient and natural manner; adhesive plaster is to be applied over the lint, with spaces between to allow of the escape of the blood or serum and then immediately he adds:—“ In a few hours inflammation arises, axiA fibrin becomes effused upon the surf aces and edges oi the wound, by which they become cemented.” (pp. 150, 51.) Upon the same subject Travers makes the following pertinent observations:—“ Is the blood,” asks he, “ when effused from wounded surfaces, a medium of organised adhesion ? or capable of becoming so ? I answer in the negative: the question turns upon a delu- sion. If the wound be so small as that the effusion of blood is restrained by the adapta- tion of its sides, whether naturally falling together, or artificially compressed, the separation of its colouring matter is shown by a plentiful oozing of sanies at its mouth and the formation of a crust. If, on the other hand, the wound would be of such form or size as to present co-aptation, or be attended with loss of substance, the coagulum of coloured blood being in proportion, acts as a foreign body, and must be dislodged prior to healing. Hence the difference in the time, and often in the mode of healing, of a small gaping wound left to itself, or a wound with loss of substance, and that of a larger wound, whose sides are immediately brought and maintained in contact. Thus the ag- glutination of the lips of a small wound, by a thin layer of blood, a merely temporary expedient, is no bar to the union, but the contrary, both in respect of hajmorrhage and union, though never forming the permanent bond. In truth, no wound of any dimensions, however favourably situated for the adhesive process, and rapidly united, has not, when fresh, a layer or pellicle of blood coating its surface ; not admitting of removal by ab- stersion, but insusceptible also of healthy organization. The separation and deposit of fibrine takes place distinctly, and after an interval. This is marked even in cases of simple division of the solid, but in loss of substance occupies many days; being step by step, and only just a-head, or in advance of vascularization.” (pp. 81; 2.) “ The fibrine effused in a state of solution in the liquor sanguinis, ouly becomes susceptible of organi- zation, t. e. capable of permanent incorporation with the living solid, when separated from the other constituents of the blood. It is incapable of organization if effused in combination with the blood-corpuscles, as in extravasation or hcemorrhage. This obser- vation is not contradicted by the appearance of vessels in a coagulum, which serves as a spurious plasma or bed for the reception of the blood-corpuscle, and the shootings of the pseudo-capillaries in an arborescent form; and which, whether confined by cellular mem- brane or a layer of sponge, admits of no further advance towards vital organization, or the attainment of the self-preserving and adapting principle.” (p. 162.) 1. If the wound be simple and the parts not bruised, the edges brought into close contact, and the inflammation not proceeding so far as suppura- tion, but only to the secretion of albuminous lymphatic fluid, the edges of I the wound become connected together, and, as the vessels shoot in from _ either side, the union is perfected. This kind of healing is called the Quick 1 union (1) {Eeunio per primam intentionem, Lat.; Schnelle Vereinigung, ‘Germ. ; Reunion par premiere intention, Fr.) (o) Lchrbuch der Chirurgie. VOL. I. (i) Surgical Lectures edited by Tyrreli,, vol. i. U