68 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. local period or first period. The second, which he designates under the name of the period of impregnation or intoxication, commences with the first general symptoms and terminates onljj with death or cure.” The course of the disease is very variable ; it may terminate in two or three days or extend to the fourteenth. The first period is ge- nerally the shortest but he has noticed it running on to the fifth day; the second varies from thirty-six hours to eight or nine days.] For the Literature of Malignant Pustule, see p. 97. 35. Hospital Gangrene ( Gangrana nosocomialis, Lat.; Hospitalbrand, Germ.; Pourriture d'hopital, Fr.) consists of a peculiar decomposition of organic parts appearing under manifold forms. A wound or sore begins to be painful, the edges inflame, the suppuration becomes less and of a serous character. Some days after, on certain parts, or on the whole extent of the wound appears a whitish, thin, semi-transparent membrane pretty firmly connected with its surface, which increases in thickness and extent, and gives the whole surface a grayish-Avhite appearance. This mass cannot be removed, and, if it be attempted, only a part of the whole which is firmly connected with the wound, can be removed. The wound increases in all directions; the edges become still more pain- ful, oedematous, and the oedema spreads. Sometimes hospital gangrene commences also with painfulness of the suppurating surface ; but upon it are observed more or less deep cavities, the edges of which are dusky red, and covered with yellowish, white, consistent pus. These ulcerous spots increase and run together; a bloody ichorous fluid is secreted, and the surface of the sore increases in all directions. Lines of inflamed lymphatic vessels commonly stretch to the neighbouring glands. The destruction is often restricted to the cellular tissue; but, in more decided cases, the muscles and all parts without distinction are destroyed. Bleeding often occurs from the destroyed vessels. The bones resist for a long while, but finally give way. With these local appearances there is always loss of appetite, pain in the region of the stomach, disposition to vomit, costiveness, loss of sleep, a quick and rather weak than strong pulse, hot skin, great anxiety, and restlessness. In the more severe fonn of the disease all the symptoms of typhus fever come on. These general symptoms often precede the local. The severity and course of this disease as well as its continuance vary in different persons. If it be long continued or often recur, hectic fever and exhausting purging at last set in. In some cases the hospital gangrene arises in form of a little inflamed pimple or vesicle, without any preceding injury to the part being perceptible (a). Hospital gan- grene is quite difi'erent from the scrofulous complication of sores and wounds. [Liston gives the following brief account of hospital gangrene, as it appeared in University College Hospital, in the year 1841. The case he mentions followed the removal of some metacarpal bones and fingers. “All at once, the stump, which had been healing kindly, assumed a carious appearance; it became enormously swollen within a few hours, and profuse hmmorrhage took place, which there was considerable difiiculty in stopping. This might have been, and was sure enough by some who saw it, taken for malignant disease; but it was exactly like what I had seen before in un- healthy seasons, and in badly-regulated hospitals. The season was a very severe one; there had been a great snow-storm, with very cold weather of long duration, bot many days passed over before a number of wounds assumed the same appearance; the parts got puffy round about them, the discharge became slimy and tenacious, ve^ putrid ; and bloody fetid gas filled the cellular tissue around them. They extended rapidly, presenting a circular form. Many patients lost a considerable quantity of (fl) Tiiomron, as Above, p. 4(i0. (6} Lectures on the Operations of Surgery, &c , in Lancet (New Series), vol, i. p. 57, 1844-5.