(Blasoow mmversit\? Xibrars {fS-cL. /o% 1 <OUTLINES OF A SYSTEM OF MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL EDUCATION.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2146215xOUTLINES OF A SYSTEM OF M EDICO-CHIRURGICAL EDUCATION, CONTAINING ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE APPLICATION OF ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND OTHER SCIENCES, TO THE PRINCIPAL PRACTICAL POINTS IN MEDICLXE AND SURGERY. WITH COLOURED PLATES. BY THOMAS TURNER, Member op the Royal College of Surgeons of London, Lecturer on Anatomy, &c. &c. &c. LON DON: PRINTED FOR THOMAS AND GEORGE UNDERWOOD, FLEET-STREET ; AND J. ASTON, MANCHESTER.AstoD, I'riDter, Si. Amrs-Sueet, Manchester.DEDICATION. TO Edwaed Holme, M. D. | John Mitchell, M. D. Henry Hardie, M. D. Edmund Lyon, M. D. Edward C arbutt,M. D J.L. Bardsley, M.D. William Simmons, Esq. Gavin Hamilton, Esq. John Thorpe, Esq. J. A. Ransome, Esq. James Ainsworth, Esq. 1 Robert Thorpe, Esq. Physicians and Surgeons of the Manchester Infirmary, &c. Gentlemen, Convinced that those who are attached to a Public Institution, can best appreciate the advantages of a well-grounded professional education, I solicit the honour of your patronage to this volume, in which an attempt is made to facilitate the progress of the Student in Medicine and Surgery.Be plcaseil to accept it, too, as a testimony of my respect for the very important stations which you fill, in a Charity, inferior to none in its profes- sional arrangements, and superior to most in the zeal and munificence with which it is supported. I am, Gentlemen, Your Obedient Humble Servant, The Author. Manchester, 22, Piccadilly, October 26th, 1824.Tlie Reader requested to conoct the following: Eruata. Pa.-e 1-2.. Line 7.. For principal, rcarZ principle. 30 .16..For principles, rcarf principle. 3-2".'.. 21.. For lambdoidal, rfarf lambdoidalis. fi.}19" For bhronchini, read bioiichiai. 1^600 For systole an<; diastole, read diastole and systole. Si'"" ..U.. For homogeuon-, rfarf homogeneous. 103.*.*.. .. 19. • For siirmouuied, read surrounded. lOfi " . 2.. For glands, rtarf gl«ns. ^07 . ... 1'.. For opthalniia, read ophthalmia. 110.'.*.'.".. 3.. For cincriteus, rend cincritious. lis!!!! !.25..For spinalis, read spiralis. 103 .. 23.. For pas, read par. I60!!.... 2.. For myrtifornes, read myrtiformes. 1«H " 17.. For sciences, read sinuses. 17o!!!!!! 4..Forreigl.morianu.n, read H.gh.uorianum. 188 " 24.. For levater, read levator. 254!!!!!.27..For exceeding, read exceedingly. 256!!! ... 8.. For lay, read lie. 285 14 .. For Gissou's read Glisson s.INTRODUCTION. The Volume, now olfered to the junior Members of the Medical Profession, was written with a view to supply what has appeared to the Author a desidera- tum; viz.—a work which shall present, in a concise form, the subjects best deserving attention in the prosecution of their studies. From defect of system, Students spend a great portion of tbeir time unprofitably ; perplexing them- selves with individual parts, without considering the relation those parts bear to each other. The usual routine of professional study, consists in reading a System of Anatomy; next a System of Physiolog)-; then one of Medicine; and, finally, of Surgery. This mode of proceeding cannot be correct. To retain knowledge, obtained in this way, requires stronger powers of memory than most men possess ; and if retained, for want of connection, and easy comparison, it can scarcely be considered an advantageousII Nothing can be called knowledge, in a medical sense, unless it can be usefully applied; nothing can long arrest our notice that is not pleasing; and nothing can long please, that does not lead to the fulfilment of some useful object. In the arrangement of Medical Studies, we should, as far as possible, combine " Utile cum dulcea plan conformable to that^ which has been successfully adopted in our modern systems of Scho- lastic Education. Experience proves to,,,us^.,,that knowledge is not soon forgotten when gained in this way; and that impressions are easily renewed, when fixed in the mind by interesting associations. To read a dry Anatomical Book, and to commit to memory the hard names which AnatQJujsts^ haye,^4w some respects, judiciously, but in others, arbitrarily, given, to the individual pai ts of orgaiis, is indeed |m irksome task; and few young men ha-ve; s.u,9U i^est for professional lore (at a period when they know not how to value it) as to embark in an undertaking ,so devoid of interest. This is one of the reasons why Students are often better informed on Physiological, than Anatomical Subjects. Physiology, is, without doubt, a most pleasing, and interesting study; butIll it must not be believed, that any one can be a good Physiologist without being a good Anatomist, for the two sciences are mutually dependent; it is therefore absolutely necessary, that they should be studied in conjunction. But the ultimate object of these useful pursuits, is hot to be attained without combining Pathology with them ; for this is the grand focus, in which the enlightening rays, which emanate fi-om Anatomy and Physiology, converge. Anatomy, alone, is important W'the Painter, and Sculptor, as it enables them, ac- curately, to delineate the varieties in the contour of the limbs, and trunk, caused by the action, or repose of muscles; united to Physiology, it displays the most interesting views to the mind, and tends, in a great dte'^eeV 't6 expand the scope of the understanding; but if these were all the uses of Anatomy, the science ivduld not have merited one half of the attention which has been bestowed upon it by those who have assidu- ously' cultivated it, from the earliest ages of the world. In competition with Pathology, every other ap- plication of Anatomy is, comparatively, insignificant; for what eaithly possession is there, we value so much as liealth? Hence, what can be equal to that scienceIT which contributes to its duration ? The Elements tif Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology, ought then to be studied together. The Medical and Surgical Educai-'' tion, must be perfect, according to the intimacy of the union; and imperfect, in proportion to then-disunion. By their combination, interest will be excited; the memoi-y less burthened, as one idea will recall others ; and thus the acquisition of useful information will be rendered a pleasing amusement, instead of a labo- rious task. ^^■^ The only work in which an attempt has been made to unite the different branches of Medical Seii- ence into a general system, is that of Dr. Mason Good, in the execution of which, the author has dis- played the most i)rofound erudition; but it will ibe seen, on examming the " Study or Medicine," that its aiTangement is very different to mine; that it is not an Elementary Work; and that for a student to read it with advantage, he must first be well grounded in general principles; afterwards, CuUen's and Mason Good's volumes, Avhich in certain respects may be put in competition with each other, will be appreciated as they deserve, and considered as stan- dards of excellence in JMedical Literature.1,1 presentins? this volume to the Student, the author does not mean to detract from the merits of Manuals, written xvith a view to facilitate the dis- sector, in applying his Anatomical researches to practical points. The works of Bell, Colles, Green, Stanley, Shaw, and others, are admirahly adapted for such a purpose; but this differs from theirs in many respects ; it may be read in the closet; but the precepts which it conveys, mnst be reduced to practice in the Hospital, in the Dissecting Room, and in the Museum. The above publications, therefore, are not superseded by this, for it has not any claim to so distinguished a precedence. ,-5.->,.t,;;f tf:.'«- '''^ The volume will not be found to contain any Mng particularly new; though the design, to a cer- tain extent, is original. Many of the materials which compose the work, lie scattered in books, not within the reach of the generality of Students. Indeed, in most modern publications, we seek for novelty in vain; for it would seem to be the prevailing opinion of the day, that to arrange what is already known, in order to illustrate important practical points, is much more advantageous to Medical Science, than to attempt the discovery of new facts : in which opinionVI the author unequivocally coincides. Whatever new ideas he may entertain with respect to obscure PhJ^L'- siological and Pathological questions, he, for the present, abstains from obtruding them on public notice. The object then of this manual is valuable, though its execution may be defective. The author, hovFCver, flatters himself, that it will be acceptable to Students, as serving to aid them in the classic fication of their labours, and he presumes to think, that it may occasionally be consulted with advantage, in order to renew impressions in the minds of older men. ' ^aul) The reader will find the language of the vbitim^ both plain and familiar, for the author has writt^ii' 'ii with the wish to be perfectly understood j and he ixustS) that, in this respect, he has succeedM. ' -He"'wisiy struck with a remark in the Preface to an" excellent' practical Work on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, recently published by Sir Astley Cooper, who says, " I prefer making use of a pointed expres- sion, to a well turned sentence; as I would rather be seen in a good plain suit, than in the finest em^ broidered dress." It would be well if Medical and Sui'gical Writers were always governed by a principleVII like this. Perspicuity and correctness should be aimed at in all their productions; and they should rather incur the risk of being accused of tautology, and barrenness of style, than of ambiguity of expression. The aim of the author of the following work is, to enlighten the labours of the Student; but he does not arrogate to himself the credit of being able to do much towards the accomplishment of so desira- ble an object. However, feeling assured that some- thing might be done, he has hazarded the publication of this volume; and if it answers to the Student in Medicine and Siu-gery, the same purpose, that an |tinerai7 does to the Traveller, viz.—as an Index to ty^.pbject». which have a claim upon his attention, the reward will be commensurate with the toil, and the'Siunmit of his ambition will be attained. iainJa ^iH \< 5'-Tift'M-t'*l fMfn ynoHf.onf'vffJ :■■ vil.oiiTq The author cannot conclude this preface without acknowledging his obligation for the numerous sug- gestions which he has received fi-om his professional Mends. Had he availed himself at this time, of the manuscript materials which have been kindly offered him, the bulk of the-yolume would have far exceeded* VIII its present limits; but he has ilcclincd making use of them from a wish to foimd his System of Education on published records. For the execution of the Plans from which the Engravings are taken, he is indebted to his fi'iend Mr. Walton, Surgeon, of Ardwick; who, by uniting a thorough acquaintance with the subjects of hi^. profession, to great skill in the use of the pencil, has rendered him the most important services. It was originally intended to introduce more Anatomical Plates, but the appearance of Mr. Lizars's Views, wliicli leave little to be desii'ed, has superseded the necessity of this intention.REMARKS ON MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL EDUCATION. It does not form a part of the author's design to advert to the preparatory education of a young man intended for one of the learned professions, for much has already been written on that subject; but it devolves upon him as a duty to direct the attention of the student to those branches of knowledge which are immediately subservient to his professional ijursuits. The circle of the Sciences is too extensive to be traversed in the short time allotted to human life; and as some of them have only a distant connexion with the Medical Profession, and others a very close one, it is necessary to select the most useful, in order to prevent the mis-employment of valuable time. In the present enlightened age, it is almost a work of supererogation to dwell upon the advantages which Medicine and Surgery have derived (and still continue to derive) from Anatomy and Physiology, and the necessity of studying them as they are in nature. There are some, however, who think that these Sciences are to be learnt from the works of the draughtsman, and from books, and hold in detes- B2 tation the means which are employed by scientific Anatomists; but the folly of such an opinion is best exposed by the fatal mischief to which it is sure to lead. From the manner in which some men talk of Dissectors, and Dissections, it would really seem that the Anatomist experienced a gratification from his pursuits, beyond that wl^ch a conviction of their utility, as the basis of professional knowledge, affords. But let them follow him in his secret re- searches, and they will not fail to be convinced, that nothing but a sense of duty,—the cause of humanity, the wish to shun the immolation of his fellow- creatuies,—and the promotion of science,—could incline him to exchange pure atmosphere for the noxious elfluvia of a dissecting-room, and the tran- quil seciuity of other employments, for that occu- pation which is pregnant with danger from contagion and wounds. It is seldom that a winter passes over without some sacrifice of life to the perilous cause which we espouse. Can the zeal then of the Anato- mist be fafrly attributed to any other motive than the honourable ambition of adorning the profession of Medicine and Surgery, two sciences very closely allied to the best interests of society ? The question—whether Dissection is necessaiy or not?—is one which concerns the cause of humanity. If its utility be denied, and Dissection be abandoned upon this supposition, the Medical World will soon agj^in be plunged into that state of barbarity which3 characterized its infancy. If actual Anatomy be withdi-a^vn from the auxiliaries to the heahn^ art, Empiricism wiU soon usm-p the throne of Science; and the bodily afflictions of mankind wUl be lett to blind chance alone for their termination. Anatomy is the science of Organization; the means of learning it are Dissection and Observation and these mnst go hand in hand. If our knowledge of man were Umited to his exterior, Therapeutics would experience almost as little improvement from the study as if we viewed an automaton, to which motion and gesture were given by concealed mechanical contri- vances. It is the province of Dissection to develope flie secret springs of action, and to discover the organs which support life, it is therefore the foundation of Physiology; and as an acquaintance with the natural structure, arrangement of structure, and the fimctions of structm-e, is necessary to enable us to detect dis- eased structure, and diseased ftmction of structure, it must follow, that Anatomy and Physiology are the basis of Patiiology. How incongruous and absurd would it be to suppose, that a man could discover an inaccuracy in the movements of a watch without know, ing the proper arrangement of parts in that interesting piece of mechanism; or that he could rectify the im- paired machinery of a steam-engine, if ignorant of the adaptation of the parts on which the operation of that master-piece of human ingenuity depend. Not more so than either, would it be to beUeve, that the Physician4 or Surgeon can repair the morbid conditions of the body, without a previous knowledge of the circum- stances by which the healthy state of its functions is maintained. Considering Anatomy and Physiology in eveiy point of view, there are no sciences more interesting, and certainly none so useftd. They ai-e looked upon, properly, as part of the education of gentlemen intended for the learned professions. To the Barrister, they are necessaiy in order to enable him to conduct with addi-ess, all matters connected with medical jimsprudence. To the Clergyman, they are useful as they afford him arguments well suited to his purpose, and the most sticking evidences of the wisdom and goodness of the Great Author of the Uni- verse. It was remarked by the late learned Professor Dr. William Ilimter, that Astronomy and Anatomy fin-nish us with the greatest proofs of divine know- ledge; for the first does not fill us more with the immensity of the Creator, than the last does with the amazing varieties of his works. But taking them abstractedly fi.-om these considerations, Anatomy and Physiology ai-e studies liighly pleasing; they sujiply - us with informiation on the nature of living beings; they expand the scope of the mind; they link us to a close connexion with the most wonderful of Nature's works; and on these accounts, they are calculated to interest and instruct the strongest and most manly understanding. We must agree in the opinion ex- prQSsed by Sir Williani Blizzard in a note to the Lec- ture.;^hich he delivered to the Scholars of the late5 Maritime School of Chelsea, an Institution intended for the maintenance and nautical instruction of the sons of those naral officers who had hravely iallen in the service of their countiy, without a provi- sion for the support and education of their children. The note refen-ed to, laments that the study of the Animal (Economy is not generally piu'sued as a part of a liberal education, as it ailbrds the most beautiful and satisfactory ideas, and is calculated to prove highly beneficial to society; for it enables men to distinguish between ignorance and knowledge, and consequently to encourage deserving men, suppress tjuackeiy, and advance true Medical Science. The Medical Books, that ai-e frequently to be found in the libraries of gentlemen, are likely to produce very dif- ferent effects. The summary accounts of diseases, ivith receipts for the cure of them, are piUars of the most dangerous Empiricism: so far from furnishing the mind with useful ti-uths, they fill it with error, and beget a confidence in ignorance, often fatal to heidth, and life. But to return to what they more especially belong. Anatomy and Physiology must be considered as the basis of Medicine and Surgery; and to confirm the truth of this observation, no fact can be more substantial, than that the progressive improvement of of the latter sciences has kept pace with that of the foi-mer. In the days when reUgious fanaticism and prcjiulicc prohibited, to a great extent, the dissection6 of dead bodies, Practitioners were dejilorably ignorant of the means of combating disease; but the ignorance of the ancients diminished in the same ratio as Ana- tomy and Physiology advanced towards something like science, and then mankind began to derive benefit from Medicine. The present enlightened state of the Medi- cal profession has resulted from a better knowledge of the structures and functions of the human body; and in tracing the progress of its amelioration from the time of Hippocrates to the present moment, every step will show the light to have been derived from that source. Seeing this, we must question the tenability of the principles of such philantliropists as oppose themselves to Anatomical and Physiological researches, as their opposition can only be prompted by weakness of mind, or mistakennotions,—for real humanity should, and will renoimce private feeling for the sake of public benefit. It is an opinion far too prevalent, that Ana- tomy is much more useful to the Surgeon than it is to the Physician, and that the minute study of it is requisite to the one, but not indispensably so to the - other; to this opinion, however, the author caimot reconcile himself to become a convert, and Bichat's Doctrine of the Tissues must convince us of its want of cogency. If Anatomy teaches us the intimate stric- ture of Organs, the information which it gives cannot be over-rated, because it furnishes us with the only means of detecting the existence and nature of diseases; and but for the valuable facts which- have been eluci- I7 dated by post mortem examinations, the errors of Theoretical INIedicine Avonld have still preyailed, to the great retardation of true science, and the injury of society. Such researches to be profitable, must pre- suppose an acquaintance with the appearances of parts in a healthy and natural state, without which, morbid changes camiot be detected. We must not draw an inference in favour of the inutility of Anatomy to the Physician, from observmg that some men practice with great success, although possessed only of a scanty share of this kind of knowledge, for there are very few indeed of this description; and if the argument were valid, similar instances are not wanting in the field of Smgery, for there are Empirics in both professions ; every neighboiu-hood has its pretenders to effeet what can only be safely attempted by the hand of Science; and if the extent of opportunity, and the cures reported to have been performed were just criteria for judging of ability and skill, very few can cope with the advertising Empirics of large towns. But weU- founded Medical and Sm-gical Science must, by and by, vanquish the vaunted success of Quackery. The human mind is not now intimidated by threats and superstition; it is not enslaved, as it was during the dai-k ages, by the influence of astrology, and such like chimeras. Diseases are not now attributed to the ■ malignant aspect of the stars; nor are the salutary vutues of remedies drawn fi-om the vegetable king- dom, ascribed to the power of the planet under whose ascendancy they were collected. Men, in8 j^eneral, make it a part of their duty to inquire into the state of Medicine and Surgery, and the*^' relative merits of the Professoi-s of the healing ait,^ and it is not anticipating too much to expect, that 'ere long, they will hesitate as much in consigning their lives to the care of a person whose skill they suspect, as merchants do in trusting their property to the charge of a mariner who is ignorant of nautical tactics; the one is more important than the other, in the same ratio as the value of life exceeds that of property. It may then be deemed a duty to caution the student against so erroneous an idea as that which we have endeavoured to expose. The decree, ■'• " Ecclesia ahhorret a sanguine;''—issued by the^" Comicil of Tours in 1163, to ijrevent ecclesiastical characters from performing bloody operations, was the origin of the separation between Medicine and Sui-geiy, and under the absurd pretext which this edict conveys, the latter science was cast out from tber bosom of the Universities, to be practised only by the most presumptuous and the most iEiterate of mankind. No other legitimate cause can be assigned for the dis- solution of the comiexion between them; the one requii-es the same accessary studies as the other; the one is as scientific as the other; and no man can be a good practitioner in either, without combining the study of the two; it therefore follows, that minute Anatomy, in a moderate acceptation of the expression, is demanded in both, and if we were to urge it as more indispensable to the Surgeon, it Avould l>e merely9 in consideration of the advantages which he will derive from delicate Dissections, in the execution of the ope- rative branch of his profession. The utility of Physiology no one can dispute, for that science which informs us of the living action of individual parts, and the united offices of the system in a state of health, must be duly appreciated by all; for a comparison between a natural and morbid function is the only mode of discriminating between the one and the other; equally necessary is it there- fore, that the Physician and Surgeon should know the former in order to distinguish it from the latter, as it is, that a knowledge of healthy structure should precede the attempt to recognise the eflFects of disease. Anatomy and Physiology are allowed by all to be the principal auxiliaiy sciences to Medicine and Sur- gery; but there are others which are subservient in an inferior degree, though the assistance which they give is such, that without it, we should not be able to explain many of the phenomena which we observe in health and disease. The other sciences which we would enumerate as indispensable, are, Chemistr)% Botany» Natural Philosophy, including Optics, Pneumatics, &c. Many interesting circumstances in the Animal (Eco- nomy can only be accounted for on the laws of Che- mistry ; such as the change of colour in the blood, after exposure to the air in the lungs, and the production of Animal Temperature dependent upon the same ope- c10 ration. Chemistry then explains some of the func- tions of life, besides which, it enables us to analyse the solids and fluids of the body in their healthy and diseased states, and supplies us with the most active remedies for the cure of disease. A knowledge of Botany makes us familiar with the nature and properties of vegetables, of which substances a great part of the Materia Medica is composed. To mention the advantages which an acquaintance with the piinciples of Natural Pliilosophy gives us, is hai-dly necessary. We may briefly state, however, that the phenomena of Vision aa-e inexplicable without a knowledge of Optics, for the Eye may be regarded as an oirtical instrument. The varieties of changes, induced by the coldness, heat, dryness, and humidity of the a,tmosphere, call from us an inquiiy into the properties of Aii-s; hence the necessit}^ of Pneumatics. Almost innumerable indeed are the proofs which might be brought forward in confirmation of the benefit to be di-awn from these instructive sciences; they should, therefore, be included amongst the studies of a Medico-Chii'iu-gical Education. When the student is well-grounded in elemeutaiy laiowledge, he will be able to unravel some of the inti-icacies of his Profession, and to enter on a more extensive field of theory and practice with the best possible claims to future improvement. If it is incoutcstible, that no 1man can become a proficient in any Art or Science, witliout being weU-gronnded in its elements; it is certain, that withont such a foundation, no man can ever be competent to practice either Medicine, or Surgery, upon sound and enlightened principles., . , ON THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE. In Nature, we find materials which differ in thefr properties, and in the laws which govern them. Some are passive and inorganic, regulated only by ttie general laws of the Universe, whilst others are active, and organized, possessing that principal which we call Life, having a power of growth, and a period beyond which they cannot exist. Inorganic substances may be divided into Simple and Compound; Organic suIj!- Btances, into Vegetable and Animal, Between Vegetables and Animals, there are some coincidences, but many striking differences. They are both endowed with Life; but the vital properties of the former, are inferior to those of the latter. Vegetable Life enjoys the faculties of nutrition, absorption, re-produc- lion, and secretion; Animal Life has, superadded to these, majiy more,, of which Vegetables are .wholly destii^te. :■ But the nature of that principle which we call Life, has been a source of perplexity to the Physio- logists of all ages; and up to the present day, they have only determined on its properties. The ingenious French Physiologist, Bichat, seems to have done .more in this respect, than any one who lived before, or sinee his tij(ne ; but it cannot be said, that his theory is free1" from objections in all its bearings; yet, a« affordmg the fundamental distinctions of Physiology, xt is regiuded as the most perfect system of the schools. After obsening that Life is " V ensemble des fonc^ Hons qui resutent a la Mortr which cannot be consi- dered as a definition of the thing itself, Bichat points out two remarkable modifications of this principle;-^ oftc common both to Vegetables and Animals,-the other, peculiar to Animals. Upon these distinctions be founds a classification of our functions; those which jwe have in commoji with Vegetables, he calls the 'tiinctions oi Automatic ox Orffanic Life, from being common to all organised matter. Those, on the other hand, which are proper to Animals, he names the fiinctions of Animal Life. By the organic iunctions only, an existence could be supported, because they are sufficient for vital purposes, from being subser- drient to nutrition and secretion; but the relation -which Animals have to external objects, renders it necessary that they should have the functions of Ani- mal Life, such as Seeing, Hearmg, Smelling, Tast- ing, and Touching, the power to reflect, to judge, and to will. It is true, Bichat gives us no real infor- imation on the principle of Life, nor does any other Physiologist; but that has not proved a barrier to the investigation of its laws. Buchan, the author of « BiONOMlA," remarks,—" the cause of gravitation ^remains unknov#n, but ignorance of that cause has been found no bar to the improvement of Physical Astronomy, which, founded u^on the acknowledged14 imiversal operation of llie principle of j?ravity, forms the most con-ect, and useful, as well as beautiful depai-tment of science, hitherto explored by the powers of the human imderstandinj^." With the laws of Life, we are as well acquainted, as with the laws of Gra- vity; but we ai-e totally ignorant of the principle oi either, and most probably ever shall remain so. We will now trace some of the phenomena of Human Life. Before the stimulus of impregnation is given, Life may be said to be in a latent state; but when given, an excitation is created in the ovum, and the changes necessary to the formation of a new being, proceed in a gradual and regular manner, unless inter- rupted by preternatural circumstances; then Life is arrested in its course; the developing mass dies, and must be cast off from the nidus which lodged it, as peniicious and useless. The impregnated ovum is the primordium of the new Animal, roused to the action of developement; it is contained within two mem- branes, named chorion and amnion; and in this con- dition of parts, the ovum escapes from the ovarium, and is conveyed by the fallopian tube into the cavity of the uterus. But it is not only in one, or other of the appendages of the uterus, that a new action is set uj); the uterus itself midergoes changes, by which a preparation is made for the reception of.the ovum; this preparation consists in the formation of the tunica decidua uteri and the tunica decidua reflexa, the uses of which are,—1st. Tp retain the ovum in the uterine15 cavity by entanglement before the os tinese is sealed up; aiid—2clly. To secrete, or form, the maternal paa't of the placenta. The embryo in utero derives its nom-ishment fi-om the mother; its Life is almost Vege- table, many of its organs being of no nse. It has eyes, ears, a nose, and a month, but they ai-e useless. The lungs perform no function, nor do the digestive or°-ans. There is a cii-culation, but singiUarities exist in^thc organs which execute it. The placenta, which is the mediiun of commiuiication between the parent and her offspring in utero, is composed of two distinct pai-ts, the one named maternal, the other foetaJ, and between the two, there is a structui-e, either vascular or cellular, but whether the one, or the other, or both, is still doubtful. The blood passes from the mother to the placenta by the uterine arteries, and from thence to the navel of the child, by the umbiUcal vein. Having entered the child's body at the navel, the blood is carried by the umbilical vein towards the liver, Avherc it separates into two currents; one passes into the substance of the liver by the venae portae, the other goes to the vena cava by the ductus venosus, and . eventually both currents amve at the i-ight aui-icle of the heai-t. In the adult subject, the blood is sent from the right auricle into the right ventiicle; from the right venti-icle to the lungs, by the pulmonaiy artery; and from the limgs to the left auricle, by the four pulmonary veins; but in the foetus, the cfrculation is different. As the child does not breathe, there is no reason why the organs of respiration should be sup-16 plied with more blood tlian is siifllicient for their nourishment; on this account there are collateral passages, by which the blood can be transmitted from the right to the left side of the heart, without circu- lating through tlie lungs. Opening into the left auricle from the right, is an aperture, named the foramen ovale, by which a certain quantity of blood goes from the right to the left auricle, without entering the right ventricle; and originating at the root of the pulmonary artery, and terminating in the aorta, is a vessel called the ductus ai-teriosus, by which some of the blood which passed from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery, is diverted towards the aorta, instead of circulating through the liuigs: thus the blood of the right auricle is divided into two streams, and that too of the right ventricle. The blood that is brought to the left auricle by the foramen ovale and pulmonary veins, is driven into the left ventricle, and from thence into the aorta, to be distributed to the different structures of the body. It is then returned by the umbilical arteries, to the placenta, in which organ the blood loses the deteriorating quality which it had acquired in the circulation through the fcetus, and is again rendered fit for nutrient purposes. At or near the ninth month cf pregnancy, the child attains a sufficient degree of vigour to live ex utero, it therefore is emancipated from that cavity, partly by its own efforts, but more particularly by a stimulus exerting those of the mother.17 After birth, its ceconomy is changed, and it begins to enjoy the common functions of life. By the application of a ligature to the umbilical cord, the circulation in the umbilical vein and arteries is destroyed; these vessels consequently collapse; their sides grow together, and they become ligaments. When the child is extricated from the uterine cavity, it inspires; this act causes the pulmonary tissue to expand, and freedom is given to the circulation in its vessels. From a greater quantity of blood being thus determined to the lungs, the call for collateral routes is rendered unnecessary, and the foramen ovale, and ductus arteriosus, are by degi-ees obliterated;—the former by valvular adhesion,—the latter by a Conver- sion into ligament, after the manner of the umbilical vessels. Thus, in time, all the peculiarities of the foetal circulating system are desti-oyed, and the blood takes the same round of movement, as in the adult subject. Let us observe the anatomy of the foetus at birth, and Ave shall find how different its hard and soft parts are, to what they are in more advanced age. The bones are imperfectly ossified; the joints are large and loose; the muscles pale and weak; the head dispro- portionately large; the cranial bones more numerous, and their junction less compact; the chest contracted; the abdomen tumid from the extraordinai y magnitude of the liver, and other causes. In the upper and lower extremities, there is nothing remarkable, except D18 the smallness! of the latter, in proportion to the other parts of the body. About the seventh month, dentition usually begins, and this process goes on till the third year, when the twenty milk, or temporary teeth are com- plete. At the second or third year, the child is able to stand and walk. At the seventh year, the temporary teeth begin to fell out, and are succeeded by the permanent, which are thirty-two in number, and cut about the twelfth year. At the fourteenth or fifteenth year, the signs of puberty appear; and in both sexes, great physical and mental alterations take place; the body changes its form, new fimctions begin, and the mind evinces more energy and power. About the twenty-first year, the body usually attains its full stature, the bones are ftJly ossified, the joints are strong, and the muscles firm and powerful. In fact, at this period of life, all dife organs perform their offices with the greatest Vigdur. At the twenty-eighth year, the dentes sa^i- totise appear, and the body, after that period, is com- plete in all its parts. At the forty-fifth or fiftieth year, the body usually shows some symptoms of decay; the organs of the senses become impaired. At sixty, the faculties fail, and the body grows feeble. The tfeeth fall from their sockets, and the hair turns grey; •digestion, circulation, and secretion, are less per- fectly accomplished, oWing to the state of the organs19 respectively concerned in these functions. At a more advanced age, the bones become brittle, and will break with a slight force, a physical change resulting from a defect of their animal matter; and there will be emaciation and weakness. In fine, Nature's resources are exhausted, and man succumbs to Death without a struggle. Thus we have traced Life in all its stages, ab ovo usque ad senectutem. We recognise its pheno- mena; but the nature of the principle itself, is involved in impenetrable obscurity.EXPLANATION OF THE PLAN OF THE FGETAL MEMBRANES. This Plan represents a perpendicular section of the gravid uterus. The membranes are naturally in close contact; but here, they are arbiti'arily separated, for the sake of distinction. A. A. A.—Are the cut edge of the uterus. B. B.—The tunica decidua uteri. C. C.—The tunica decidua reflexa. D. D.—That portion of the tunica decidua uteri which passes between the uterus and placenta, and is supposed to secrete the maternal part of the placenta. E. —The placenta. F. —The funis umbilicalis. G. G,—The chorion—a. a. showing that portion of the membrane which is thought to form the foetal part of the placenta—h. h. denoting the envelope which the chorion gives to the cord. H. H.—The amnion—c. c. its envelope to the cord. I. I.—Situation of the liquor amnii. K.—6s tincae, vel os uteri. This Plan will give the student a better idea of the fcEtal membranes than words can possibly convey.Plate / Engraved by T.I'idduuj.ON THE HUMAN BODY. The Human Body is composed of organs, and parts, dostiuod to perform the variety of functions essential to the life ivhich it enjoys. There are some iumiediately subservient to the faculty of loco-motion, viz-the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and muscles. In addition to this office, the bones support the solt pai-ts, and defend the vital organs (as the brain, heart, and lungs) from external injiu-y; and muscles, besides being the active agents of ti-ansporting the body from place to place, and of executing the different motions of theti-unk, extremities, and other pai-ts, operate the movements of the iinpoitant viscera. A digestive sys- tem is given to the body, to prepare the materials for its nutrition; a cii-culating system to carry nourish- ment to the different sti-uctui-es; secreting organs to form certain fluids, some of which fulfil important purposes in the animal ceconomy; a nervous system for sensation, voUtion, and sympathy, a reproductive system, for continuing the species; and ceUulax and other tissues, for the union and connexion of the whole. Thus the human body is constituted of many systems, not insulated, but essentially dependent; and we see in them, a wise and admirable adaptation of parts, to their intended uSes.22 • Bone is the hardest and strongest structure in the body, and its functions recj^uii-e that it should be so. We should suspect, from a superficial examination of this substance, and from its resisting, for ages, the decomposition which dead organic matter usually vmdergoes, that it is not an organised structure,—that is to say, not possessing arteries, veins, nerves, and absorbents; but injection proves that it is vascular; and the phenomena of disease inform us, that it has nerves and absorbents. But there is, superadded to these and its animal substance, an earthy material, upon the presence of which depends its peculiarity in solidity, weight, and strength. Before mentioning the composition of bone we will advert to its origin, and the process of its formation; two very interesting physiological inquiries. Its origin is to be sought for in that state of existence, when an impenetrable mys- tery hangs" over all the operations of nature, and when human scrutiny cannot detect the secret changes which are taking place in organising matter. In the early period of conception, all the systems of the body are, to our observation, homogeneous; the bones, the muscles, and the other organs, are all apparently of the same nature; and imtil the formative faculty gives to each part its peculiar character, we are at a loss how to distinguish them. We may call the first condition of the foetus, mucous; therefore, bone, at its origin, may be said to be in a mucous, or gelatinous state. A degree of firmness, which it soon acquires, enables us to detect it from surroimding parts; as it changes"23 from a mucous to a cartilaginous state; and cai-tilage is the nidus in which the calcareous, or earthy material is deposited; the bones of the head excepted, where the nidus is membrane. The process of ossification now begins to be cognisable to the senses, and may be watched in its progress, to its full completion. The commencement of the third, or osseous state, is mani- fested by some changes which the cartilage or mem- brane undergoes. Vessels carrying red blood are seen running towards the ossifying points; the cartilage assumes a yeUowish hue; and bony fibres may be seen shooting in a longitudinal, or radiated course, accord- ing to the kind of bone in which the process is observed. In flat bones (as those of the cranium), there are two points of ossification, viz.—the centre, and the edge; the fibres from the centre shoot off in a divergent manner, to meet those which ]^roceed in a convergent direction, fi-om the circum- ference of the bone. The late Mr. Gibson, of Man- chester, was the first to describe, satisfactorily, the ossifying process in the bones of the cranium, and he published an ingenious paper on this subject, in the Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester. In the long, or cylindrical bones (as those of the limbs), there are three ossifying points, viz.—the body of the bone, and the two extremities; the latter are called epiphyses. In the spherical bones (as those of the carpus, and tarsus), there is only one point of•24 rossificalion; bnt in the irregular bones (as the vertebra?), there are several. If we examine a child at birth, the osseous system will be found extremely imperfect. The bones of the bead are more numerous than in the adult subject, and -very loosely united by means of membrane. When we carry our observation from the head of the child to the other bones, we see how incompletely they are ossified. The vertebrae are, in a great degree, cai-tila- ginous; only here and there are spots of ossific matter visible. The sternum is made up of pieces of bone, deposited in, and surrounded by cartilage. The edges of the bones of the pelvis ai-e tipped with cartilage. The tlu-ee bones of each os innominatiun, and the different pieces of the sacrum, are separated by inter- vening cartilages. The cylindrical bones are incom- plete; theii- ends are cartilaginous, and all their pro- cesses the same. Thus the osseous system at birth is very imperfect; although some of the bones are almost completely formed, seven, fourteen, twenty-one, and even twentj'-eight years will elapse, 'ere all the bones of the body attain theii- ultimate formation. At the twenty-first year, they are said to have finished their longitudinal growth; hence at this age, man arrives at his full statuie; but the bones increase laterally from that period up to the twenty-eighth or thirtieth yeai-, when not only the bones, but all the other struc- tures of the body are supposed to an-ive at their acme . of symmetry and perfection.. - We have marked the beautiful work of nature, m forming original bone, and therefore are prepared to understand her operations, in the repai-ation of the injuries to which bone is liable, for the process of re- gion, in fract^rres,. is governed by the same aws^ The Surgeon is only an instrument in the hands ot nature; he assists her in her efforts, but on her we ,nust rely, as the principal agent. All that ar-t can do, is to reduce the bone if cUsplaced; to retain the frag- ments in contact; and to prevent the supervention of eia-cumstaBces, which would frustrate natm-e, or retard the fulfilment of them. When this is done, the restorative faculty of living matter com- pletes the work. If we mark the changes which occur in a bone that has been broken, we shall find them to be these a:he injuiy inflicted, causes a greater determination oi blood to the pari injm-ed, and this determinatlo^ is necessary to the incipient process of repair; for a new matter is to be secreted, and the quantity of it will be in proportion to the supply of blood, the source irom wliich aU secretions are derived. But only a certain determination, is necessary; when too great it is prejudicial, and the opposite extreme is equally so; too much, or too little inflammation must be guarded against; and this is the foundation of the judicious practice of depletion, when circumstances demand it, and the injudiciousness of it when the excitement is inconsiderable; the previous habits of the patient,26 the state of health, and the extent of injury, are the grounds which expose the propriety, or impropriety of Surgical interference. Much then is left to the Practitioner, in the after ti-eatment of fractures. iSTatui-e, now and then, requires to be controided, or excited; she may be too active, or not active enough in her operations; and it is the province of good Siu-gery to be sedulously on the watch, in order to weaken her inordinate efforts, or to augment them when inefficient. The first thing, then, which indi- cates a disposition to repaii- a mischief, is an increased determination of blood to the injured part; and this is salutary and necessary, so long as it is moderate. From this blood, the vessels secrete a mucous, or gelatinous substance; in a little time, this gradually increases in consistence, and takes on the true caiii- laginous cbaiacter; and in the cartilage, the earthy particles are deposited; thus, what was mucous, at the commencement of the re-union, becomes, by a series of changes, true bone. Here then, as in the original formation, we note three states,—mucous, cartilaginous, and osseous; the changes from the first to the last are, are in a similai- way, progressive; and the circumstances which produce them, depend upon the same influence and actions. These facts prove a coincidence between Physiology in health, and Phy- siology in disease. Having considered the process of ossification, it is in natural ordei", next to inquire into the composition27 of bone. If a bone be sawn through, it wUl be found to consist of an external, and compact structure, which is caUed the shell of the bone, and of an internal, and cellular structui-e, named cancelli. Bone is not inorganized, as the facts abeady stated must convince us, for it is susceptible of injui-y, and has, within itself, the means of repai-ation, which is not a property of inorganic matter. Like to other structures, it has blood-vessels, nerves, and absorbents; but, in addition to these, it has an animal and earthy matter; the former consisting of what chemists call gelatine, the latter, principally of carbonate and phosphate of lime, which are secretions, and regularly deposited in the form of fibres; it is in the first substance, that the blood-vessels are found. Experiments and disease show, that an animal matter is a component part of bone; by chemical means, we can remove the earthy, .without interfering much with the animal substance. After subjecting a bone to the action of muriatic acid, diluted with water, it is rendered flexible, and can easily be twisted into any shape; tliis is owing to a chemical decomposition, the earthy part of the bone quitting the animal, in consequence of its greater affinity for the acid, by wliich the solidity of the bone is destroyed. In the disease called moUities ossium, a similar change takes place. In this extraordinary affection, all the calcareous matter is, from some unknown causje, absorbed; and from the secreting vessels ceasing to renew the supply, the bones lose their solidity and strength, yield to the superincumbent28 iveiglit, and even to the pressure of sitrrotinding parts. A partial existence of this disease gives rise to distor- tions, often of vital importance to the female sex. We have a proof of the presence of earthy matter by the foregoing experiments; but another circum- stance will corroborate the fact. If we examine a bone after it has been submitted to the process of calcination, its brittleness will clearly evince that the earthy material alone remains. An alteration, analo.- gous to this, occms in the disease, called fragilitas ossium; here, the bone is rendered fragile, in conse- quence of the animal and saline substances not existing in theii' due and natural proportion. In neither of the experiments, whether to show the eaithy or animal material, is the shape of the bone altered; thus we see how intimately the two substances ai-e blended; how essential is their accurate combination; and how '"^iseless the one is without the other. Anatomy, Phy- -'feiblogy, and Pathology, in these instances, as in others, ^^teciprocally assist in the elucidation of healthy and ■'forbid phenomena. All the bones of the body are covered with a membranous structure, named periosteum, which is in" immediate contact with their external surface: like other membranes, it is separable into laminae. During the periods of ossilication, and reparation of '^'^iiijiu-ies in bone, this membrane is crowded with blood- ■-^Vessels; but in a natural state-;, it is not vascular,-and29 all the vessels which injection shoAVs in it, ai'c not lor its nourislunent, as some of them go to supply the bone which it invests; it is principally by meaais ot vessels that the periostenm adheres to the bone. It has absorbents and nerves; but unless under the influence of disease, this structure is not endowed with a great share of sensibility. The periosteum serves two important uses, viz.— to give firm attachment to the muscles; and to sustain Ihe^branches of blood-vessels going to the bone. The membrana medullaiis lines the cavities, or . cancellated sta-ucture of bones. It is exceedingly 5,vascular, and secretes the marrow, which is said to be of the same use to the bone, as the fat is to the soft parts. Formerly, the diseases of bone were regarded as '<,f a peculiar kind, in very few respects resembling ■ those of the soft pai-ts; an error resulting from the ignorance of the Ancients, with regard to the true structure of this substance. Observation and chemistiy have, however, removed this obstacle to improvement : in Pathology. Seeing that bone is furnished with blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, we cannot be sm-prised at their liability to inflammation, and its consequences, viz.—increased exhalation, or effusion; suppuration; lUceration; and mortification. Seeing too, that an animal and earthy material enter into its30 composition, and that to the due and healthy office of bone, they must exist in certain proportions; and knowing that there are vessels which can diminish or increase the one or the other, in quantity; we cannot be astonished at the occurrence of preternatural hard- ness or softness. Thus, the diseases of bone may be attributed to the states of the vascular system, as those of the softer textures of the body. An increased action of the blood-vessels will constitute inflammation. An increased secretion will cause the effusion of a fluid, which, in time, will be converted into bone, causing exostosis. A change in the action of the vessels, by which they secrete pus, will give rise to suppuration. An increased action of the absorbents, with the preceding condition of the blood-vessels, wiU occasion ulceration. The extinction of the vital principles, mortification. And a loss of balance between the secreting and absorbing systems, rachitis, mollities ossiuMy and fragilitas ossium, so far as we are acquainted with the true natui-e of these diseases. Considering the subject in this way, the general Pathology of the osseous system is simplified, foimd much to resemble that of soft parts, and to differ only in the slowness of the morbid action, and in the tardy progress of the restorative power; ,cii-cumstances arising from the quantity of inorganic matter, which peculiarly characterizes the structure pf bone. Bones may be divided into four classes, viz.— the flat, or those of the head;—the cylindical, or those31 of the exti-emities;—the spherical, or those of the carpus and tarsus ;-and the iiregular, or those of the spine. This classification is determined, not by the form entirely, but by the manner in which ossifi- cation proceeds in the different bones. The demonstration of the bones should be com- menced with those of the cranium and face; and then, in succession, we should examine those of the spine, thorax, pelvis, upper extremities, and lower extre- mities ; enumerating theii- situation, connexion, figure, processes, foramina, general character, and uses. But, to consider the bones individually, (though necessary at fii-st) is not of so much real importance to the Sm-geon, as to study them relatively, and combined; for we must seek for the parts formed by their union, and affording lodgment to soft organs. It is obvious, that very little importance can be attached to our knowing the bones of the head and face, in an isolated state; but when joined together, they form elevations, and depressions, that must be attended to. If we were to join two or three vertebrae, we could have no correct idea of the extent of the motion, and the mechanism of the spine; because, between any two of the bones, little or no movement is allowed; but the whole, when joined, are capable of extensive motion. To explain the mechanism of the chest, we must examine it in its totality; and the same obtains, with regard to the functions of other parts of the osseous system. The Physiology of the skeleton requii-es,32 that we should not limit our examination to separate, or individual parts, but extend it to the great whole in connexion; I repeat, however, that parts must he understood, before any other thing be attempted. The bones of the Cranium are eight in number, six of which are proper to the cranium, viz.—the os frontis, two ossa parietalia, two ossa temporalia, and the OS occipitis, and two common to the cranium and face, viz.—the os sphenoides, and os ethmoides. They are joined together by irregular lines, called sutui-es, variously named. That wliich connects the OS frontis to the ossa parietalia, is called the coronal suture.—The one which unites the ossa parietalia, the sagittal suture.—The sutures joining the os temporale on each side to the os parietale, os occipitis, os sphe- noides, and os maljE, are called tbe squamous or tem- poral; the additamentum sutiu-ee lambdoidalis; sphe- noid; and zygomatic—Those connecting the occipital bone to the parietal bones, temporal bone on either side, and sphenoid bone, are named, the lambdoidal, the additamentum suturae lambdoidal, and sphenoid sutures. The sphenoid bone is united to suiTounding bones by the sphenoid suture; and the ethmoid by the ethmoid sutiu-e. The bones of the Face are fourteen in number; twelve of them are in pairs, the remaining two aie single. The pairs are, the ossa malarum, ossa unguis, ossa nasi, ossa maxillaria superioia, the ossa spou-^3 ^iosa infeviora, and the ossa palati. The single ones are, the vomer, and maxilla inferior. The bones of ihe' tace are united to those of the cranium, by the ti-ansverse, sphenoid, ethmoid, and zygomatic sutures; and to each other by sutures, named after their situa- tion,- and by concretions of substances, the lower jaw excepted, which has a moveable articulation. The student is much puzzled by a multiplication of the names of the sutures, in the way that some anatomists have adopted. I have endeavoured to simplify the study of them as much as possible; taking care at the same time not to waive any important point. The Trunk of the skeleton is composed of three pai-ts; the spine, thorax, and pelvis. The Spine is a column of small bones, twenty- four in number; and called vertebrae, from the Latin word, verto. They are divided into three classes, named cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. In the first class, there are seven bones; in the second, twelve; and in the third, five. The increase in size of these bones is gradual, from the first cervical to the last lumbar vertebra. The spinal column is articulated above, with the condyles of the os occipitis; and below, with the base of the'sacrum. Its form is curved; in the neck, it ! F34 projects forwai-d; in its descent through the thorax, the curvature is backward; and in the loins, forward again: thus its figure has been compared to the italic f. Between the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar verte- brae, and even amongst the vertebriB of each class, there are differences, or peculiarities, which must not be overlooked. The fii-st cei-vical is called the atlas, and is nothing more than a bony ring. The second is named the dentata, fi-om its having a toothlike process. The thii-d, foui-th, fifth, and sixth, resemble one another. The seventh is like a dorsal vertebra. The transverse processes of the seven vertebrae of the neck are perforated with a hole; the holes of the six superior ti-ansmit the vertebral arteries to the brain; that in each transverse process of the seventh is for the transmission of a vein. The student will readily discover the peculiarities in the rest; and will find no difficulty in accounting for their effects on the degrees of motion in the different parts of the spine. The movements of the spinal column are freest in the neck; next, in the loins; and lastly, in the dorsal vertebra;. The articulation of the vertebrae to the ribs laterally, and the locking together of theii- spinous processes, are the causes why they are least moveable in the b'ack. The dorsal vertebrae form the back part of the Thorax, and pa.ssing forwards from them are the35 seven tweuty-four ribs, twelve on each side. The uppermost proceed to the sternum, and by means of cartilages are joined to that bone; hence called true ribs. The fxve inferior on each side, do not reach the sternum, and on that account are named, false, or floating ribs. The dorsal vertebrae, behind, the sternum, before, and the libs, lateraUy, constitute the conical cavity, called thorax, which contains the heart, lungs, and other important parts. There are differences to be observed amongst the Ribs. Some ai-e more curved than others; their diminution in cm-vature being gradual, from the first to the last. From the first to the seventh, the ribs increase in length; and from the seventh to the twelfth, they decrease. The first rib is articulated only with the first vertebra of the back. The eleventh and twelfth have no tubercles, and the last, no fossa for the intercostal vessels and nerve. The Pelvis is a cavity, formed of bone; poste- riorly is the sacrum; at its apex, the os coccygis; and on the sides, and in front, are the ossa innominata. Above, it is expanded; beloAV that, contracted; then expanded again, to foi-m the cavity; and this termi- nates in an inferior opening, called the outlet. It contains the bladder, rectum, and other organs. Each Upper Extremity is composed of the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand.36 The shoulder consists of the clavicula, and scapula. The arm, of the os humeri. The fore-arm, of the radius, and ulna. The hand of the bones of the caxpus, meta-carpus, and fingers. Each Lower Extremity is composed of the thigh, leg, and foot. The thigh has one bone, the femm-; the leg, two bones, the tibia and fibula, with an appendage to the former, called patella; and the bones of the foot are those of the tarsus, metatarsus, and toes. Having learnt the individual bones, their pro- cesses, and remai-kable points, it behoves the student to observe them in their united state, as forming the skeleton. The head, trunk, and extremities, must be examined anatomically, and physiologically. The differences to be observed in skeletons of different ages, prior to the period when ossification is comj)lete, depend on the stage of the ossifying process. When complete, we remark differences in the male and female skeleton. The male skeleton is larger, in a general way, than the female, and the bones are fuller, and more substantial; but the most striking circumstances between the two, are presented in the breadth of the shoulders in the one; and the expanded and capacious state of the pelvis, in the other. Amoiigst the pm-poses to which the skeleton is subservient, the following are the most important.37 1st.—It is the basis of the soft parts, and the frame-work of the body. otUy.—It is a fulcrum for the action of the muscles; hence, an essential part of the organs of loco-motion. SAly.—The bones protect from accident, the vital organs, which are contained in the cavities which they form. The bones which compose the skeleton, are joined together, for the most part, by ligaments; but the jimctions vary from one another in many respects; and the variations have given rise to a division of the joints into genera, and the genera are subdivided into species. The parts which enter into the composition of a joint, capable of free motion, are, ligaments, synovial membrane, synovia, and cartilage; in some of the joints, there are ligaments, as well within, as without the cavity of the joint With a few of the articulations, there are connected some tendons; e.g. the shoulder, hip, and others; but tendons ought not to be enume- rated amongst the component parts, since their prin- cipal use is to strengthen the articulation. On laying open one of the joints of the extre- mities, the fine vascular synovial membrane appears,38 bedewed with its synovia, or secretion; it is classed amongst the most vascular structures of the body, for by coloured size injection, it can be rendered uniformly red. The arteries which are distributed to it, tenni- nate in two ways, viz.—in veins, and exhalents; the former to return the superfluous quantity of blood, the latter for the synovial secretion. The use of the synovia is to lubricate the articulating surfaces, for facilitating their motion upon each other. Besides the synovial membrane, we find the cartilages which tip the extremities of the bones of the joint; they are smooth, white, and extremely elastic; not very vascular, hence endowed only with a weak living principle. Within the knee-joint, there are ligameiits, connecting the heads of the bones; but the knee and hip aie the only articulations which are furnished with internal ligaments. Without, or on the exterior of the joint, how- ever, there is always one, or more ligaments; when only • one (a capsular), the deficiency is made up for, by means, which additionally strengthen this ligament; thus, in the shoulder, and hip-joints, the expanded tendons of muscles contribute much to increase the strength of the capsular ligament; but in the latter, we find the ligamentum teres, in addition to that circumstance; and in the former, the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle runs tlirough the cavity of the joint. - .'iiiii The ligamferits, like tWfcaitilagcs, are ^^ut spa- ringly organised. ■ ' ' ' •39 llavuig- ffiveu a brief description of the structures of the joints ill general, it is easy to understand some of the pathological circumstances attendant on them. With the exception of the synovial membrane, all the paits are little vascular, and little sensible; hence joints are slow in taking on morbid action, and as in bone, that action, when once begun, is with difficulty subdued. This will teach us too, why a wound, which communicates with the cavity of a moveable articu- lation, is much to be dreaded; for a small puncture exposes to disease a very extensive surface, and the organisation and function of a joint are such as to interfere much with the curative process. The effects of a wound, whether punctured or incised, are, first, an escape of synovial fluid; and secondly, the exposure of the whole cavity of the joint. When called to a patient suffering under an accident of this kind, the vindications of treatment must be founded on the effects produced; our object must be to close the wound, and so effectually loo, as to prevent the oozing of synovia. We wish to promote adhesion of its sides, and this cannot be done, unless the synovial secretion is con- fined within the cavity of the joint; great attention and care in di-essing the wound, are the means best adapted to do this; but with all the attention that can possibly be bestowed, our attempts are often frustrated. If adhesion camiot be effected at first, it camiot be effected afterwards; for there succeeds to the adhesive inflammation a suppurative One, and granulation must be the process of cure; for there aie only two modes40 of repai'ation in ih^; body, viz.—adhesion, and grauu- lalion. Wliat then have we to expect? A tedious case; the cartilaginous sm-ftvces must first become absorbed, because they are almost incapable of granu- lating, in consequence of their feeble living powers; and whilst this is going on, the constitutional irritation is often excessive. Sometimes an apparently trifling injuiy is followed by the most serious consequences; frequently such as endanger the limb, and not unfre- quently, the life of the patient, unless amputation is timely resorted to; thus we are convinced of the necessity, imperatively called for, of not neglecting at the onset, wounds of joints. We must employ such means as are most likely to bring about au adliesioii of the divided surfaces, and to keep down inflammation; for if these indications be neglected, the second mode of reparation will be attempted, at the expenctJ of ffreat local, and constitutional disti'ess. These remarks I have deemed useful, as illustrative of the association between the Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology, of the articulating system. No further observations can he required on the morbid phenomena of joints; because, a right under- standing of Avhat we have already stated, will be the key to an explanation of inflammation, and its conse- quences from most causes; and of the danger resulting from fractures extending into, and compound dislo- cations of, joints. But in order to be profited by Anatomy, in learning the dislocations, it is necessary41 to knoAV the peculiarities of the individual articu- lations; the student must therefore examine them; for they explain why one joint is more susceptible of luxation than another; why the head of a bone is thrown in one direction more easily than another; and why some kinds are more dilficult to reduce than others; this last generally depends on muscular obstacles; and muscles, as the agents of dislocation, and the opposing powers to reduction, wUl be considered in another division of the work. The bones and joints are the passive organs of loco-motion; the Muscles are the active organs, and by their influence, aU the animal and organic move- ments are performed. It is by muscular agency, that we go from place to place; and that the heart, and all hollow viscera, contract upon their contents. The human passions are expressed by the eyes; the eye-brows; the eye-lids; the lips; and certain appearances of the face; and the expression given to these different parts, are caused by muscles. These expressions constitute the language of gesture, which opens a path to this most interesting inquiry, how the emotions of joy, giief, melancholy, anger, &c. which depend on cerebral operations, are transmitted to, and characterised by muscular organisation. An inquiry replete with interest; but discouraging, from the diffi- culty there is in detei-mining the preliminary step, viz.—the seats of the passions. G42 The functions of vision; hearing; speech; masti- cation ; deglutition; the circulation of the blood ; res- piration ; the faculties of standing; sitting; kneeling; walking; running; climbing; pushing; grasping; &c. are all dependent, more or less, on muscular power. Some of the muscles concerned in these purposes, are minute and delicate; as those of the eyes, ears, tongue, soft palate, and larynx; the rest, in a general way, a^-e more bulky, because the actions to be per- formed by them, ai-e of a more powerful and substan- tial kind. This outline of the uses of muscles may be filled up, by classifying the different muscles, accord- ing to their respective and combined actions; I adopt such an arrangement in my public lectures, as being the best mode of conveying useful instruction in this branch of Anatomy. The structures which enter into the composition of a muscle are, bimdles of fibres, which have a con- tiactile power; cellular membrane, which unites the fibres together; arteries; veins; absorbents; and nerves; and eveiy muscle, the sphincters excepted, terminates in a glistening structure, called a tendon. The Ancients supposed that tendon was nothing more than muscle hardened by pressure; but they possess nothing in common with each other, save the fibrous character, and the fibres are ligamentous, not mus- cular. Muscle is abundantly furnished witli blood- vessels; tendon, on the contrary, has little, or no vasculaiity; hence its weak living principle, and its43 tendency to slough, or mortify, on being wounded, punctured, or otherwise injiu-ed. Muscles are exqui- sitely sensible; tendons, on the other hand, are almost devoid of this faculty; they may be cut, or torn, with- out the animal expressing the slightest degree of pain. Muscle, and tendon, therefore, are not the same, but very different structures. The principle of muscular motion is irritability, of the nature of which, we know as little as we do of life; but there are certain laws of this principle, which we may consider as established; thus, experiments, and obseiTation, fully prove that a muscle cannot long remain in a state of action; therefore, firstly, a state of rest must succeed a state of action. Secondly; every irritable part loses a portion of its irritability by action. Thirdly; by repose, it regains the portion which it lost. Fourthly; all irritable parts are not endowed with the same share of irritability. The heart is the most imtable of all animal structures; next, the intestines; the stomach; the urinary bladder; the muscles of respiration; the voluntary muscles; the arteries; the veins; and lastly, the absorbents. Fifthly; the degree of action produced by a stimulus^ is (caeteris paribus) in proportion to the power of the stimulus. And Sixthly; the action of every stimulus is in an inverse ratio to the frequency of its appli- cation. There are other confirmed laws of this extra- ordinary principle; but the six above mentioned, are most familiar to us; as facts, illustrative of them, are44 in the possession of all men. To the student, a thorough knowledge of these laws may lead to deduc- tions of great practical importance. The muscular system is as litde liable to disease as any system of parts in the body; but it fm-nishes us with many signs of disorder in other organs. In vigorous and healthy persons, the muscles are firm; but in weak persons, they are soft and flabby. Theii- power is, in a general way, in proportion to their bulk; but a remarkable fact is obsei-vable in certain cases of lunacy, where the power of muscles seems to be extraordinarily increased. In fevers of low type, the power is much diminished; and in paralysis, it is altogether destroyed. Cramp consists in a spasmodic contraction of one or several muscles; this painful affection, when attendant on labour, is to be referred to the pressure of the child's head on the nerves distributed to the muscles of the tliigh. There is a species of cramp called tetanus, which is exceedingly dangerous. ^Tetanus is an involuntary and almost constant.con- c traction of all, or some of the muscles of the body, -while the senses are unaffected. It may be either idiopathic, or symptomatic. In most instances, it succeeds to punctured, and lacerated wounds, espe- cially when tendons and nerves are involved in the injury, and in these cases, the disease is often fatal..45 From the constant actions, consequent on organi- sation and life, and liom the continual losses thereby sustained, the body would soon operate its own destruction, if it were not provided with an apparatus to receive the aliment, and to convert the same into a substance capable of repairing the wastes, and of supporting the functions necessary to life. The organs concerned in this important office are called the Diges- tive Okgans ; tliey are, the teeth, salivary glands, oesophagus, stomach, intestines, liver, pancreas, spleen, lacteals, mesenteric glands, and thoracic duct. The Teeth are the organs of mastication, and, in the adult, thirty-two in number. They are usually divided into four classes, viz.—the incisores, four in each jaw; the canini, two in each jaw; the bicus- pidati, four in each jaw; and the molares, six in each jaw. Each tooth consists of a base, body, cervix, and one or more fangs; the body is covered over with enamel, a white, vitreous-like, and insensible sub- stance; so hard and indestructible, as to resist the effects of time and circumstances, which destroy every other part of the tooth. It is believed that the enamel is not an organised structure, but a crystallised secre- tion; for, by feeding an animal with madder, the osseous part of the tooth can be rendered quite red; ■ but the enamel remains unchanged: it is, therefore, supposed not to be subject to the laws of life, and46 circulation. At the extremity of the fang, or fangs of a tooth, a small hole may be perceived, which leads to a cavity, in which is lodged the pulp, consisting of a gela- tinous substance, which supports the vessels and nei-ves of the tooth. The teeth are confined in their alveoli, or sockets, by means of their periosteum, and the gums. The Salivary Glands are the parotid, sub- maxillary, and sublingual; their ducts terminate in the mouth, where their secretion mixes with the food, to facilitate mastication and deglutition. The (Esophagus is the tube wliich conveys the masticated food into the stomach. It begins at the pharynx, and ends at the cardiac orifice of the stomach; and is a muscular canal, lined by a mucous membrane. Soon after the food has entered the stomach, it loses the character of a masticated sub- stance, and assumes that of an uniform mass. The portion nearest the pylorus is most altered in appear- ance ; for it has taken on the character of chyme: the change having been produced by the gasti-ic juice, which is a powerful solvent. The Stomach is a muscular, and membranous bag; not inaptly compared in its figm-e, to a bag-pipe. It has two orifices, two extremities, two curvatm-es, and two siu-faces. Its coats ai'e tln-ee, viz.—a perito- neal, muscular, and villous; the gastric juice is secreted by the vessels of the villous coat.47 Tlie muscular tunic has two sets of fibres; a lon- gitudinal, and a circulai-; by the former set, the caidiac exti-emity can be brought to approach the pyloric; and by the latter, the circumference of the organ can be contiacted; it is by these powers, that the food is propelled from the stomach, into the first portion of the intestinal canal. The Intestinal Canal is divided into the small, and laige intestines; the small are subdivided into duodenum, jejunum, and ilium; the large, into cceeum, colon, and rectum. Like the stomach, the intestinal canal has three coats; but some parts of it have merely a partial investment from the peritoneum. The auxiliary organs of digestion are, the LiVEK, Pancreas, and Spleen. The fij-st of these is the lai'gest gland in the body; the peculiarities of its structure will be mentioned in another place. The pancreas veiy much resembles the salivary glands, and its secreted fluid is similar in composition, and properties, to the saliva. The spleen is a spongy organ, composed of cells, in which the aiteries termi- nate; it is supposed to be accessary to digestion, but nothing positive is known respecting it. When the food has been partially digested in the stomach, it is carried by the peristaltic action of that organ into the duodenum, where a further change takes place. Into the duodenum open the ducts of48 the liver, anil pancreas; by which the bile, and pan- creatic jnice are discharged from their respective organs. There can be no doubt that these fluids are the agents of chylilication; although it has been dis- puted by some Physiologists, whether the former has any thing to do with the chylifiant process. The celebrated Blumenbach thinks that the bile separates itself into two portions, a serous, and resinous; and that the foi-mer probably mixes with the chyle, and is carried back to the blood, whilst the latter combines with the faeces, and acts as a stimulus to the peristaltic motion of the intestines. The ingenious, and industrious French Physiologist, Richerand, entertains a similar opinion. After speak- ing of the combined pancreatic and biliar}' fluids, as serving to penetrate the chyme, to render it fluid, to animalize it, to separate the chylous fi'om the excre- mentitious pait, and to precipitate whatever is not nutritious; he says,—" in brmging about this separa- tion, the bile itself seems to be divided into two parts; its oily, coloured, and bitter portion passes along with the excrements, sheathes them, and imparts to them the stimulating qualities necessary to excite the action of the digestive tube. Its albuminous and saline particles combine with the chyle, become incor- porated to it, are absorbed along with it, and return into the circulation." How the separation is effected, Richerand confesses his ignorance. He thinks that this act of the Animal (Economy is as mysterious and inexplicable as the action of the brain, in producing thought; a phenomenon, which many Physiologists49 have cousidered, as exceeding tlie power of matter. The experiments recently made by Mr. Brodie, and pnblished in Braude's, and other journals, are capable of settling the point of dispute, respecting the eflfects of the bile in the process of digestion, Mr. B. was disposed to think, that the bile is intended to convert the chyme into chyle, by a chemical change: but to ascertain whether he was right in this, he completely obsti-ucted the flow of bile into the duodenum, by a ligature on the ductus choledochus. The ligature, and the consequent want of bile, completely, and •invariably, prevented the changing of a single particle of chyme into chyle; a process Avhich takes place at the entrance of the duodenum, and never higher than the pylorus; no chyle could be traced in the intestines, or in the lacteals; but both of these were filled with a fluid like the chyme, which became thicker as it proceeded, and at the termination of the ilium, it was '(juite solid, though not like faeces. The office then ^f the bile, is to convert chyme into chyle; and to act as the natural stimulus to the peristaltic action of the intestines. When the process of chylification is completed, two functions are set up in the intestinal canal; the one is, absorption of the nutritious part of the food; the other, dejection, or the evacuation of the residuum, or excrementitious portion, peranum: the former is accomplished by the lacteals; ihe latter, by the vermicular action of the intestines. H50 The LacTeals arise from the Inner surface of th€ small intestines by orifices, not visible to the naked eye in the human subject; and fi'om their origin, they pass to the MESENTERIC Glands. The lacteal vessels which enter the glands, are named, vasa lactea primi geneiis; those passing out of the glands, are called, vasa lactea secundi generis. What change the chyle undergoes in these glands is not known; but they are supposed to add to it a secreted fluid, by which the chyle is inore assimilated to the blood. From the mesenteric glands, the lacteals go to the thoracic duct, in which they terminate. This duct begins at or near the first Ixmibar vertebra; it ascends on the left side of the spine, and ends in the left subclavian vein, at the place where it is joined by the internal jugular. J : Thus, the organs which constitute the digestive system, are sabsei-vient to various purposes; and on the due performance of each of them depend the nutrition, health, and energy, of the body. ^ The chyle, or product of the aliment after it has undergone digestion, is found, on analysis, to be' composed of water, albumen, fibrine and saline par- ticles ; but there are some differences in the constituent parts and properties of this fluid, as abstracted fi-om animal, and vegetable substances. Animal chyle contains more solid materials; hence, is more nutri- tious; but vegetable chyle iis less puti-escent; hence,51 vegetable food is more proper than animal, for patients laboiu-uig under puti-id, and some other diseases. If healthy, and wholesome articles of food be taken, every morbid condition of the chyle must be owing to an undue action of the organs concerned in preparing it. We must, therefore, look to the diges- tive organs, and rectify their functions, 'ere the chyle can be improved in its properties. The next system, which is most intimately allied, in a physiological point of view, to the digestive, is the Absorbent System, which is composed of the absorbent vessels, and their appendages, called glands. The vessels are divided into lacteals and lymphatics; the former take their origin from the inner surface of the small intestines, as we have already stated: the latter arise from almost every surface, substance, and cavity of the body. The two sets of vessels pass through their respective glands, and at length unite to form trunks, which convey the chyle, and lymph, into the circulating mass of blood. The absorbents are supposed to have three coats, like the arteries and veins; but the delicacy of their structiu-e defies an accurate demonstration of them. They are named, elastic, muscular, and membranous. An absorbent vessel will not retain a cylindrical form when cut across; hence, the elastic coat must be weak. The existence of a muscular tunic is to be inferred from52 their functions. There are two facts in favour of the musculai-ity of these vessels; lirst, the power which they have, of accepting, or rejecting the fluids which are offered to them; proving that their action is not dependent on mere capillary attraction; and secondly, the increased energy of their function, on the appli- cation of such stimuli as-excite the activity of muscular parts in general. The inner, or third coat is the strongest; and to it, is owing the superior strength of the absorbent vessels, in comparison with the strength of veins; the former being able to bear a column of mercury, under which, the latter woidd immediately burst. The three tunics are furnished with arteries, veins, absorbents, and nerves. By coloiu-ed size injection, the arteries may be shown; besides which, disease proves to us theii- existence; for when an absorbent is inflamed, we see a red line indicating its course, and resulting from a turgid state of its parietal vessels. The presence of absorbents is more conjec- tural; but that of nerves is manifested by the acute- • ness of the sensibiHty of these vessels, when in an inflamed state. Absorbents have valves, like veins; but in the former, the valves are universal; in the latter, they are limited to the veins of the extremities, and to pai-ts where pressure may interfere with the circulation of the blood. The valves are directed towards the53 I thoracic ducts; hence, they will permit a free passage to theiluid which circulates towards the ducts; but offer an effectual opposition to a retrogade movement. The origins, course, terminations, and pecu- liarities, of the absorbents and their glands, should be well understood; for otherwise, the functions, and morbid phenomena of the absorbent system cannot be explained. The absorbent vessels have three grand fimctions to perform, viz.—to can-y the nutritious matter into the mass of blood; to prevent effiisions in the circum-- scribed cavities; and to model the gi'owth of the body by removing superfluous parts. It is a law in nature, that all living bodies are constantly undergoing renovation, and decay; the blood-vessels are perpetuaUy depositing new materials; ajid the absorbents ai-e as perpetuaUy engaged in removuig the old. No solid, or fluid, can exist a great length of time, without a change: this is the state of living parts, whilst the operations of the system are under the influence of healthy action; but what takes place if the equilibrium, or balance between the function of renovation, and that of removal, be destroyed? If the transmission of nourishment be prevented, and the absorbents continue to act, emaci- ation must follow. If the blood-vessels perform their functions of deposit, and the lymphatics cease toabsorb, an excessive growth, and a tendency to .effiision, will be induced. When the exhalations in the dilferent circumscribed cavities, and cellular mem- brane, are greater than the power of the lymphatics can overcome, dropsical accumulations must take place; producing, in the head, hydrocephalus; in the chest, hydrothorax; in the abdomen, ascites; and in the cellular membrane, anasarca. The preceding remarks will serve to illustrate the uses of the absorbent system, in preventing a preternatural increase of solids, or fluids; thereby in averting disease, and modelling the growth of the body. But the absorbent system is an efficient means, in tte hands of the Physician, and Sui'geon, as it can be made subservient to the cure of disease. The lacteals are the most limited part of this system; their use is, to transmit the chyle from the intestines to the thoracic duct. The lymphatics, constituting the major part, arise from three sources, viz.—the extenial surface of the body, and cellular membrane under the skin; from the different cavities, as the head, thorax, abdo- men, and pelvis; and from the surfaces and substance^ of all the organs of the body. We know the property^ which mercury, and some other medicines, possess,, of augmenting the action of the ijiternal absorbents; hence, we employ these remedies in many diseases;^ but we can best excite the energy of the lymphatics^. by administering medicine through the medium of cutaneous friction. The surface of the .body is55 covered with a dense inorganic substance, called cuticle; the use of Avhich, is to blunt the acuteness of external impressions, which would otherwise prove painfid to the sensible cutis. The cuticle is spread over the orifices of the absorbent vessels, and thereby prevents absorption. Friction, however, raises the cuticle, and thereby exposes the orifices of the absor- bent vessels. When the skin is denuded, we remove the sole obstacle to cutaneous absorption. When we wish to introduce mercury into the system, in a more speedy manner than we can do by giving it internally, it is usual to apply a blister, and to dress the raw surface with mercurial ointment; a salivation will thus be often produced in a few hours. When we vaccinate, we insert the virus carefully under the cuticle; by doing so, we present the vaccine lymph to the mouths of the absorbent vessels. Thus we have a great controul over the lymphatics; and can^ by proper management, render them powerful auxi-^ liaries to the cure of disease. We have said, that the absorbent vessels pass through glands, in their route to the subclavian veins. It is of great consequence that the Surgeon should know the situation of these glands, and the absorbents which enter them; in order to trace the effects of irritation, and absorbed poisons. In the face, and neck, there are many absorbent glands in the course of the blood-vessels. In the upper extremity, there, are two, three. Or more glands, near the inner con-56 dyle, and through which, the trunks of the lymphatic ■vessels pass in their route to the axilla. If there be an in-itable wound in either of the fingers, a swelling is likely to take place in one, or more of these glands. A tumour below the elbow is not glandular; because absorbent glands are never found below the joint; but between the elbow, and axillaiy glands, a few are to be met with, in the course of the brachial vessels. The glands of the axilla are numerous; being , sometimes as many as ten or twelve, in number. Their relative situations, with respect to sun-ounding parts, should be observed. Along the edge of the pectoral muscle, there is a chain of glands; in the depth of the axilla, are others; and there are others along the edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, which bounds the axillary space posteriorly. Either of these ^sets of glands may be affected by an absorption of virus, from a cancerous breast; but, from proximity, the anterior chain is more likely to be first diseased. The extirpation of glandular tumours from the axilla, is a very delicate operation; and when the disease is cancerous, it is seldom eflfectual; for if the breast, and superficial glands, be removed, it is probable, that some of the deeper seated, as those of the chest, are affected; and as we cannot reach them, we camiot arrest the progi-ess of the disease. • ■ Cancer may, for the most part, be regarded as a iiital malady; in most cases, the operation does Uttle57 more than prolong- the patient's existence; I mean, when the complaint is of a true scirrhous character. With regard to the lower extremities, no absorbent glands exist below the ham; nor are there any between the ham, and the lower row of inguinal glands ; there- fore, no swellings in the intermediate situations can be glandular. Any initation of the foot may occasion a tumefaction of the inguinal glands, in which the absor- bents, which accompany the great saphenous vein^ terminate. Bubo, from the absorption of the syplii>-. litic vims, is seated in the upper row of the inguinal glands; this distinction is of practical importance. When the testes are attacked by a malignant disease, the malignancy is communicated to the glands of the loins. In cancer of the uterus, the iliac, or lumbar glands, or both, will become affected. The state of the mesenteric glands, in the disease called tabes mesenterica, and the symptoms attending it, are explained elsewhere. We have thus followed the routes which poisons take, to enter into the mass of blood; and have eluci- dated many of the healthy and morbid phenomena of the absorbent system. Having traced the chyle and lymph to the circu- lating mass of blood, we are naturally induced to speak next of the Sanguiferous System; includ- ing a set of organs, by which the nourishment is conveyed to the different stnictui es of the body. The I58 sanguiferous, or circulating system, consists of the heart, arteries, and veins; to which we shall add the lungs; because circulation and respiration are closely allied functions. I The Heabt is of a conical figure, and lies obliquely in the thorax, inclining to the left side. Its form justifies a division into base, body, and apex. From the base goes off the aorta, or principal trunk of the ai-terial system. This organ has four cavities: an auricle, and ventricle, on the right side; and an auricle, and ven- tricle, on the left; and with these, large vessels com- municate. Into the right aui'icle, the vena cava descendens, vena cava ascendens, and coronary vem open; and there is an apertui-e of communication with the right ventricle. In the right ventricle are two openings; one from the auiicle; the other into the pulmonary artery. In the left auricle, we observe the enti-ances of the four pulmonary veins, and a hole into the venti-icle; and in the left venti-icle, we find the opening just spoken of, and another, leading to the aorta. The structure of the heart is muscular; but its substance is not uniform in thickness; the reason of which is obvious. It seems to be a law in nature, that no part of the Animal (Economy shall be endowed with more energy than is necessary for the59 due, and regular execution of its function; hence, a difference is made in the thickness of the parietes of the different cavities of the heart. The right, and left auricles have thin muscular walls; but they possess a sufficient degree of power for the purpose required, viz.—that of sending the blood into the right and left ventricles, which are close at hand. The parietes of the right venti-icle are more slender than those of the left; because less force of con- tractility is demanded, to ti-ansmit the blood through the lungs than to propel it, (as the left ventricle does in great measure), throughout the arterial system. An examination of the structures of the cavities of the heart, will assist us in explaining how the sides of each are approximated; how the blood is expelled; and how a retrogade coui'se of this fluid is guarded aigainst. The course of the blood is determined by the mechanism of the valves. The valves are flood-gates, which permit the passage of tlie blood in one direction oidy. They are thus named: the valve between the vena cava inferior, and the right auricle, is called, the valvula Eustachii; that, at tlie termination of the coronai-y vein, the valvula semilunaris; that, between the right auricle, and right venti'icle, the tricusped, or mitral valve. The three valves at the root of the pul- monary artery, are named, from their figure, the valvular semilunares. Between the pulmonaiy veins, and the left auricle, there ai'e no valves. Between the60 Jeft auricle, and left ventricle, we find the bicnsped valve; and between the left ventricle, and root of the a.ajta, are the three valvulae serailunaj'es. The mecha- njsm of these membranous structures bespeaks a beautiful adaptation of means, to the fulfilment of an end which could not be dispensed.with. They some- times become ossified; this desti'oys theu' function, and, in time, proves fatal to the individual, who is the subject of this morbid change. The heart is admirably constructed in all its parts, and so clear are the uses of its structural arrangements, as to tell at once the purposes of this important organ. It vdll appear extraordinaiy, then, to all who know the anatomy of the heart, that the circulation of the blood remained undiscovered so long as it did; but the astonishment must cease, when we reflect, that the true anatomy of this organ was npt accurately known; and that the discovery of its ' function was almost contemporaiy, with that of its real mechanism, and structiu-e. The assistance which Anatomy lends to Physio- , logy, is forcibly illustrated by the important fruit of -Harvey's industry, and observation. One of the principal circumstances Avhich led him to detect the coiu-se of the current of blood, was an examination of the manner in which the valves ai-e disposed. Other Anatomists, before him, shewed an imperfect know- ledge of some of the facts, which he afterwai-ds eluci-Gl dated; therefore Harvey derived assistance from the labours of his predecessors; but to him only, are we indebted, for coiTCCt, and scientiiic views of the subject; and consequently, to him is due, the honoui- of a discovery, far more interesting, and useful, than any other that has been deposited in the archives of medical literature. Harvey's doctrine, however, did not escape the animadversions, which new doctrines generally experience; by some, it was scoffed at; by others, it was disbelieved; but truth is sure to over- come all opposition, and 'ere his death, Harvey had the satisfaction to prove this; for his opinions were embraced, credited, and taught by all. Those who dai-ed dispute them, were regarded as aliens to a sound mind; or, as influenced by Prejudice; a dcemon which destroys the ability to deduce fair inferences, even from admitted data. The mechanical arrangement of the different parts of the heart positively shows, that the blood can only circulate in a dii-ection determined by that particular arrangement. It nmst go from the right auricle, into the right ventricle; from the ventricle, through the lungs ; from the lungs, to the left auricle; from the left auricle, to the left ventricle; from the ventricle to the aorta; and from the aorta, throughout the arterial and venous systems, back again to the right side of the heart. This is the grand round of circulation; which we may divide into a pulmonary, and systemic : the parts connected with the former,62 are, the right cavities of the heart, the puhnonary artery, and its ramifications, and the radicles and trunks of the pnhnonary veins; those connected with the latter, are, the left auricle, and ventricle, the arteries, and the veins. The Arteries are the vessels, which convey the blood from the heart, to the different structures of the body. They originate in two main trunks, viz.— the pulmonary artery, and aorta; the pulmonary arteiy arises from the right ventricle of the heart, and is distributed to the lungs; the aorta springs from the left ventricle, and divides, and subdivides, into branches, which go to all the other organised parts of the body. After its origin, the aorta forms a curvature, or arch, from wliich part, vessels pass off to the neck, head, and Upper extremities. It then descends on the left of the spine; and whilst in the chest, sends off the mtercostal, oesophageal, and bhronchial branches. After emerging from the thorax, it begins to supply the abdominal viscera; some of its branches are azygous, or single'; others are in pairs. The single branches arc, the cajliac, the superior, and iiiferior mesenteric, which are distrii buted to the stomach, liver, spleen, pancreas, and iiitcstiues. The double branches are, the diaphrag- matic, the renal, the spermatic, and the lumbar. At the fourth, or fifth lumbar vertebra, the aorta bifhr- cates into the common iliac arteries. Each common iliac subdivides into an internal and external branch ; tG3 the internal principally supplies the pelvic viscera; the external passes luider Poupai-f s ligament, to the lower extremity. This is a general idea of the distri- bution of the ai-terial system. The arteries terminate in six ways, viz.—in anastomosing with other branches; in veins; in the excretoj^ ducts of glands; in exhalent vessels; 'in cells; and in colom-less, or serous branches. In their course, from their origin to their terminations, some branches pass off from the trunks, at acute angles; others more obtusely. After making their angles,' and flexions, they rmi, for the most part, inl stiaight direction; with the exception of such arteries as supply parts which are subject to be stretched, or where a conti-ivance is necessary, in order to break the force of cii'culation; thus, in the lips, uterus, and brain, they take a toi-tuous, or serpentine course. An artery is a tube composed of coats; which coats have vasa vasorum, lymphatics, and nerves. They are three in number, arid named, the ceUular, or elastic, the muscular, and the membranous. It is to the first coat, that an arteiy owes its ability to retain a cylindrical form, when cut across. The Veins are those vessels which return the blood of the arteries back again to the heart. They arise from two sources, viz.—from the extremities of arteries, and from cells; and terminate in the aui'icles of the heart. The veins of the head, neck, and upper64 extremities, end in the vena cava superior; those of the lower extremities, abdomen, and thorax, in the vena cava inferior; those of the heart, in the coronary veins; and those of the lungs, in the four pulmonaiy veins, which terminate in the left auricle of the heart. The veins may be divided into two sets: the cutaneous, and deep; the latter set, for the most part, accom- panies the arteries. Between the two sets, there are very free communications; a fact well demonstrated by the effect of grasping, at the time of bleeding from the ai'm; when the blood does not flow from the orifice with fi-eedom, it is usual to direct the patient to clench his fist, or move his fingers; on doing which, the blood issues freely. The explanation of this is, that when the muscles are in action, their bellies s\vell, and compress the deep seated veins; by which, the blood is driven into the superficial ones. The veins, like the arteries, have three coats; but they are all much thinner; hence, the difference in the thickness of the walls of the two orders of vessels. But the veins of the exti'eniities differ from arteries, in having valves, which serve to support the column of blood; this, if allowed to gravitate, would be an almost insuperable obstacle to the circulation in the extreme veins, which is principally of a vis a tergo kind.' When the valves do not perform their functions well, that knotted appearance of the veins, known by the name of varix, takes place, and is productive often of serious inconvenience.The veins, as well as the arteries, are subject to inflammation, obliteration, ulceration, suppiu-ation, mortification, and to the deposition of calcareous matter, in their coats. The heai-t is the principal agent in the circulation of the blood; its nmscular structure gives it a power superior to that of any other agent. Its actions are two, viz.—a diastole, or dilatation; and a systole, or conti-action. The right aiuicle derives its blood from the veins, and contracts upon it; and whilst this aiu-icle is receiving blood from the general system, the left auiicle is receiving blood from the lungs; thus, the actions of the auricles are synchronous; tthey dilate, and conti-act together, and the ventiicles do the same. The arteries contribute a share of power to the systemic cii-culation, for if they did not, the blood could not arrive at its ultimate desti- nation ; the vis a tergo influence not being sufficient, to accomplish it. Some Physiologists, howevei*, deny that these vessels are endowed with any other power than that of elasticity; and they say, that this is the only auxiliary agent which they lend to the circidation of the blood. Berzelius is of this opinion, and many moderns believe it to be ti-ue; but I Avould, in addition to the evidences of the inherent action of vessels, afforded by local inflammation, and the phe^ nomenon of blushing, mention the variety of circu- lation observed in cold blooded animals. In fishes; the heart, as in the frog, consists of a single amicle66 and ventricle; the ventiicle opens into a bulb, or pedicle, from which, the branchial, or artery of the gUls, takes its origin. The blood, after circulating through the minute vessels of the gUls, arrives at the aorta; and by this main tnink and its branches, it is sent to the different parts of the body; here, therefore, it is scai-cely possible for the heart to communicate its impulse to the general arterial system. It is in the muscular and elastic coats of arteries, that the power resides, which assists in propelling the blood onwards. The veins, too, have an inherent principle of action; less in degree, however, than the arteries; but as the column of blood in them is supported by valves, less is necessarj'. In the ai'teries, and veins, there is always a column of blood, which is forced forwards by the action of the heart, aided by that of the ai-teries and veins. The capacity of this column is sometimes small, aiid some- times great; the diminution and increase correspond with the systole and diastole of the left ventiicle, from which circumstance are chiefly derived the phenomena of the pulse. The Pulse is the effect of the action of the heart upon the blood; Avhich action causes an elong- ation, as well as a dilatation, of the artery in which the pulse is felt. The pulsations at the wrist do not take place at the same moment of time, as those of the carotid, and other arteries near the heai't; the interval is long, or .short, in proportion to the67 distance of the vessel from the heart; the reason of which is obvious. At the adnlt age, in a state of health, the pulse is equal, regular, and has a mode- rate degree of power; but age, temperament, stature, and disease, occasion varieties in it. At birth, the nimiber of jjulsations in a minute, are about 140.—At the age of twelve months, 120.— At the age of two years, 110.—At the age of three years, 96.—At the age of seven years, 86.—At puberty, about 80.—At the adult period, 75.—And at sixty years of age, about 60. Persons of a sanguine temperament have gene- rally a quick pulse. Those of a melancholic tempe- rament, a slow one. Women have usually a quicker pulse than men; and dwai-fish than tall persons. In disease, the pulse is often much affected. The pulsations may be fi-equent, or slow; weak, or strong; full, or small; regular, or irregular; or intermittent. k f requent pulse is characterised by the pulsations being more numerous than they ought to be, in a given time. A slotv pulse is the reverse of this. In certain inflammatoiy diseases, and in those attended with much constitutional irritation, the pulse is fi-e- quent. In nervous fevers, and diseases of debility, the pulse is generally slow.66 A feeble pulse is indicated by the vessel striking the fingers feebly, and being easily obliterated by prcssui-e. The reverse of this is a strong pulse. The pulse is full, or small, according to the diajneter of the artery. A liard pulse is a resisting pulse. When tense and resisting, the pulse is wiry; so called from the impression of the artery on the fingers. This descrip- tion of pulse usually accompanies the phlegmasiaj, and active liaemorrhages. A soft pulse is an indi- cation of debilit}'. The pulse is regular, when the same interval of lime takes place between the pulsations, and when Ihe pulsations mamtain the same character. An irre- gular pulse is the reverse of this. The pulse is intermittent, when some pulsations , are wanting; and when the pulsations themselves vary in strength, and character. These are the most important varieties of the pulse. Some authors have enumerated many more; *^'and Galen has described thirty-six different kinds. ^' iOur judgment in the treatment of disease is often ^' founded on the state of the pulse; it is one of our " most certain guides; but it must be admitted by the IPathologist, that it now and then deceives him.69 The Lungs, (an essential appendage to the cir- ciUating- system,) are situated in the thorax, one on each side the heart; the left lung is composed of two lobes; the right, of three; and the inclination of the heiu-t 'to the left side, is the reason assigned for the diilerence in the number of lobes. The structures which enter mto the composition of these organs ai-e, the bronchia;, or ramifications of the trachea; air cells of great minuteness; two sets of arteries, the pulmo- uionary and bronchial; two sets of veins, correspond- ing with the arteries; absorbents; and nerves; these different parts are united together by a fine reticular texture; imd the whole is suiTounded by the pleu- ritic membrane. The lungs are quite free in the thorax, except at the lower, and posterior parts; where they ai-e con- fined, in some measure, by the pleura; and their figure is conical; like the cavity in which they are contained. By forcible inflation, we can distend these organs to a very great extent; but tliis will give us no just con- ception of theii- state in natural inspiration; and they are never completely collapsed; for it is impossible to deprive them of all the air wliich they contain. The lungs perform the important function of respiration; the effects of which are, a change of colour in the blood, and the production of animal heat. They are, too, accessary to the formation of the voice ; and coughing, sneezing, sighing, yawn-70 mg, hiccup, and laug-liiug, are sympathetic affections of these organs. In speaking of the circulation, we said, that the blood ijassed fi-om the venae cava; into the right auricle; from the light auricle into the right ventricle; and from thence to the lungs by the pulmonary arterj'. The ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery ramify on the parietes of the air cells; anastomose fi'eely with each other; and terminate in the radicles of the pul- monary veins. The pulmonary veins unite, and form at length four considerable trunks, which empty them- selves into the left amicle of the heart. Seeing, then, that the blood circulates through the lungs 'ere it goes from the venous to the arterial system, it is reasonable to inquire into the necessity for this. If we observe the blood in the right cavities of the heart, and compare it with that in the left, we shall find a great difference in the coloiu' and pro- perties of the two. That in the foioner is what we call venous blood, or blood that has circulated throughout the body, and lost, from that cu-cumstance, a part of its old properties, and acquii-ed new ones. It is of a very dark crimson colour, in consequence of having absorbed a quantity of cai'bon. That iu the latter is arterial blood, or blood deprived of its carbo- naceous qualities; hence, of a lighter, and more florid colour. Knowing that the change. takes place in the lungs, we must, of course, ascribe it to respiration,71 and this is reducible to matter of fact; but to render this intelligible, I must first speak of the nature and composition of atmospheric air. The air of the atmosphere which surrounds us, is composed of three gases, besides heterogeneous matters. The gases are, oxygen, nitrogen, or azote, and carbonic acid, and in one hundred parts, they are usually found in the following proportions : of oxygen, about 22 pai-ts; of nitrogen, 77; and of caa-bonic acid, about one; but Mr. Dalton thinks that there is not one per cent of carbonic acid gas. This is the air we inspire. But on analysing the air expired, instead of one of car- bonic acid gas in 100 parts, we find much more; and the oxygen proportionally diminished. Dr. Henry observes, in his " ELEMENTS or ExperimentaI/ Chemistry," that when the state of the expired air is examined, a quantity of oxygen is found to have dis- appeared, equal to the carbonic acid gas which has been formed. Now, as carbonic acid has been proved to contain its own bulk of oxygen gas, it follows, that all the oxygen which disappears in respiration, must have been expended in forming this acid. A chemical change, then, has been effected; and to that change may be attributed the alteration in the colour of the blood. It would appear, that the atmospheric air in the lungs becomes decomposed, on the principle of chemical affinity: that when the carbonised or venous blood is exposed to its action in the lungs, a portion of the oxygen is resolved into its constituent pai-ts,72 which are a base and caloiic, or the matter of heaf; the base, or acidifying principle, of the oxygen, unites with the carbon of the blood, and forms carbonic acid gas, which passes oflp in expiration; thus explaining, why more carbon is present in expired, than in inspired air. From being deprived of its carbona- ceous principle, the blood changes to a florid red colour, in which state we find it in the left cavities of the heart and arterial system. But another purpose is fulfilled by tliis chemical decomposition of the oxygen of the atmospheric air, viz.—the production of animal heat. The natural heat of the body is about 96° of Farenheit, and this obtains equally, whether man inhabits the climate where mercury freezes, or where the sun has almost a scorching power; climate, there- fore, does not aifect the internal temperature of our bodies; this arises from the lungs performing a regular and uninterrupted operation upon the oxygen inspired. We have already spoken of the way in which the base of the oxygen is disposed of; viz.— in combining with the carbon to form carbonic acid gas; the other part, or caloric, goes over to the arterial blood in a latent state; but, in the circulation, it becomes sensible, and equally maiiitains the tempe- rature of the body. The meaning of latent, and sen- sible heat, will call for further elucidation. There are two opinions concerning the nature of heat; according to one, it in the property of matter^73 according to the other, it is matter itself to the latter opinion, most philosophers of the present day incline; they designate it, therefore, caloric, or the matter of heat. When we speak of heat, in common language, we intend to convey the idea of any thing, which, on, coming in contact with the hand, or any part of the body, imparts the sensation of warmth; this is tempe- rature, or setisible heat; but there is another state, in Avhich caloric may exist, and as the presence of it cannot be detected by the sense of touch, or the ther- mometer, chemists have applied to it the name of latent heat; but for further information on this sub- ject, I shall refer the student to Works on Chemistry. The caloric, then, which is set at liberty fi-om the oxygen, is in a latent form; but it is disengaged in a sensible state, in the circulation, owing to the blood, on becoming venous, having a less capacity for heat, than when it was arterial. Animal heat, therefore, accord- ing to this theory, is the result of a chemical process; but some Physiologists contend, that the nervous system is concerned in its production: thus Mr. Brodie states, that if the brain be desti-oyed, the power of generating heat is destroyed; and Dr. Wilson Phillips has shown that the temperatui-e of animals is consi^ derably influenced by the spinal marrow. It will appear from the preceding observations, that the oxygen of the atmospheric air is diminished L74 in quantity by respiration, and that the Carbonic acid gas is increased. In Blumenbach's Physiology, there is a note, giving the results of some experiments, made with, a view to determine how long an animal can breathe the same air without dying. For these expe- riments, three dogs were obtained, of equal size and strength. To the trachea of the first dog, a bladder was tied by means of a tube, and this bladder con- tained about twenty cubic inches of oxygen gas; the animal died in fourteen minutes. In the second case, the bladder was filled with atmospberic air; the animal died in six minutes. In the thii-d, the carbonised air, expired by the second dog, was employed; and the animal died in four minutes. On examining the air of the bladder, after each experiment, it gave the com- mon signs of carbonic acid gas, viz.—it extinguished flame, and precipitated lime fi-om lime-water. Find- ing, tben, that carbon is emitted fi-om the hmgs, and oxygen consumed, it is certain that we cannot remain any great length of time in a confined place, without suflPering inconvenience, and even death, if the stay be protracted beyond a certain period; because the atmosphere is deteriorated, by being surcharged with a gas, which is destructive of animal life. It is natui-al, then, to ask, how the air is again purified? From what sources the oxygen is obtained? and by what process the carbonic acid gas is destroyed? We may briefly answer these questions, by stating, that the salutary renovation is principally owing -to the vegetation of plants. Priestley proved by75 his experiments, and the fact has been confirmed by after experimenters, that vegetables act in an opposite manner on the atmosphere to what we do; instead of absorbing oxygen, and emitting carbon, they emit oxygen, and absorb carbon; thus, the animal and vegetable kingdoms are subservient to the well-doing of each other. To illustrate fiulher the wise provision furnished by nature, I shall extract a passage from Dr. Curry's Observations on Apparent Death: " To Dr. Priestley," he says, " we owe that beautiful discoveiy of the mutual support which the animal and vegetable creation afford to each other, viz.—that animals, whilst dissolving, and putrifying after death, set loose in the atmosphere, a great quantity of nitrogen gas, which, if augmented beyond its due proportion, would tend to destroy those that still live; but that this gas is greedily absorbed by growing vegetables, which retain and fix its basis as a part of their substance, whilst they give out, in exchange, a quantity of vital air, which, in its turn, is necessary to the mamtenance of respiration, and animal life." We have seen that the constituent parts of atmos- pheric air, are oxygen, nitrogen, and caibonic acid gas, besides adventitious materials; the proportions in which they are combined, are nearly thus—22—77— and one; although some chemists have given different results; but not, however, widely different.16 Oxygen is called vital air; it being the only one of the three that can support animal life; but when alone, it is so stimulating in its elFects, as to cause a rapid expenditure of the vital principle. Nitrogen gas is quite incapable of supporting life; and carbonic acid, the same; but for the dilution of the too active properties of the oxygen, their addition is essential in atmospheric air. Monsieur Orfila mentions, in his valuable work on Poisons, that Nysten proved, by experiments, that guinea-pigs, plunged into nitrogen, or azotic gas, are asphyxied at the end of five minutes, and in thi-ee minutes and a half, if the experiment be begun by emptying the lungs of the air that may be contained in them. At the moment of immersion into an atmosphere of azote pui-e, or almost puie; the animal experiences a difficulty in respiration, which becomes great, elevated, and more rapid than ordinary ; it grows gradually weak, but without any lesion of the • nervous functions; after death, the arterial system is found filled with black blood. This asphyxia takes .place through a defect of oxygen, as young animals can be easily restored to life by exposing them to pure air. Carbonic acid, or that gas which is disengaged from fermenting liquors and lime-kilns, more speedily kills than the preceding. It will destroy life in a few minutes. The noxious principle, which is given out dming the combustion of charcoal, is not the pure carbonic77 acid gas ; it is formed of the gaseous oxyde of carbon, and Carbonated hydrogen; it is proved, however, that they both destroy life in the same way, viz.—by obstiucting the chemical phenomena of respiration. There are other gases highly destructive; such as the nitrous acid gas, the sulphureous acid gas, &c.; but their actit)n on the body is different; they seem to kiU by irritating the lungs; therefore, deleterious perse, a property not residing in the azotic, and carbonic acid gases. We might here extend our inquiry into the causes of death, in asphyxia, from drowning, and hanging; but we shall merely remark, with regard to them, that death results in these cases, from the blood ceasing to be re-supplied with oxygen from the atmosphere; it, therefore, becomes super-carbonised, and on that account is incapable of supporting the functions neces- sary to animal existence. A knowledge of the cause of death, in asphyxia from gases, submersion, and sus- pension, will be the best clue to the mode of treatment in suspended animation, proceeding from suchlike causes. Besides the functions mentioned, the lungs are accessary to the formation of the voice. The passage which leads from the mouth to the lungs, is caUed the trachea, or wind-pipe. In its descent in the neck, it is situated before the oesophagus, or canal leading to the stomach; and at or near the third vertebra of the back it divides into the two bronchi; one bronchus78 goes to the rii^ht, the other to the left lung. At the upper part of this tube is the larynx, or organ of the voice. The Larynx is composed of cartilages, liga- ments, muscles, &c. The cartilages, are five in number, and named, the thyroid, cricoid, two aryte- noid, and epiglottis. The ligaments of the voice are four. A ligamen- tous cord passes from the fore pai-t of each aryte- noid cartilage to the anterior angle of tlie thyroid. By these ligaments, an opening is left, which is called the rima glottidis. Under the cords just mentioned, Ave find two others, taking their origin from the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, and running, like the for- mer ligaments, to be inserted into the thyroid cartilage. Between the superior and inferior ligaments, we see, on each side, a pouch, named, the venbicles of the lai-ynx. The muscles are small, but numerous; by them, the cartilages and ligaments are acted upon, so as to effect their straightening and expansion, for the modu- llation of the voice. ' The voice is foi-med by the air, in its exit from the lungs, causing a tremor of the cartilages, and ligaments of the larynx. The strength of it is in proportion to the quantity of air expired, and the size79 of the glottis. AVhen the rima glottidis is narrow, the tone emitted is acute ; Avhen expanded, the tone is jrrave; and Avhen the air passes tlirough, without pro- ducing a tremor of the parts, the result is a whisper. The larynx is the organ of the voice ; but the instru- ments of speech, are the soft palate, the tongue, the lips, and other parts connected with the mouth and nose. But of all these, the tongue is the principal organ; for without it, we could not ai-ticulate any of the vowels or consonants distinctly. The great num- ber of small muscles, which compose the tongue, give to it a great variety, and great celerity of motion; and in the act of utterance it rapidly, and readily, applies itself to the different parts of the mouth. The sympathetic functions of the lungs are, cough- ing, sneezing, sighing, yawning, hiccup, and laughing. Coughing may be occasioned by any cause, which in-itates the sensible membrane which lines the trachea and larynx. It consists in a violent expii-ation, accompanied by a contraction of the trachea, and glottis, by which the air is expelled from the lungs, through the wmd-pipe, with a great force. A cough is, generally speaking, symptomatic of some morbid affection of the respiratory organs ; but it is not neces- sarily so, for it is often an attendant upon diseases of other viscera, and, therefore, merely sympathetic. A cough is not unusual in dyspepsia, and almost -always pi-esent in hepatic disorders.80 Sneezing is a similar function, in a great degree, to coughing; but as the velum pendulum palati is drawn down, the air rushes through the nostrils instead of passing through the mouth. It is almost invariably a forerunner of an attack of measles, and this is the only pathological fact of importance connected with this affection. Sighing is a deep inspiration, determhied by a preternatural accumulation of blood in the Imigs, and right cavities of the heart; any cause which partially suspends the functions of the heart and lungs will produce a sigh, in other words a deep inspiration; this relieves the distended state of the lung, and right cavities of the heart, by expanding the pulmonary tissue, thereby giving freedom to the ciiculation of the blood. Yawning is nothing more than a deep sigh: Hiccup results from a sudden and involuntary contraction of the diaphragm, which gives rise to a sonorous inspiration. It is sometimes sympathetic of functional derangement of the stomach. In strangu- lated herniae, and inflammatory affections of the abdo- minal viscera, it is a very alarming symptom. Laughing is a succession of short expira- tions, very frequently repeated. It often accom- panies Hysteria.81 Tims we have gone througli with the cii-culatiuo; ;ind respiratoi-y organs; and, in conformity with phy- siological order, we will next consider the nature and properties of the blood. The Blood is that fluid which circulates in the cavities of the heart, arteries, and veins. In man, it is of a red colour; but in some animals, it is colour- less. Whilst circulating, and innnediately after being ch-awn fi-om an artery, or a vein, it appeal's an homogenous mass; but soon after being taken from the vessel, it loses its uniform consistence, and resolves itself into two parts; serum, and crassa- mentum. By exposing the serum to a temperatui-e of 150 or 160 degrees, it assumes a solid form; the substance, in chemical language, is called albumen; and by slicing, and squeezing it, a small quantity of fluid may be expressed, which is called the serosity of the blood. According to Dr. Marcet's Analysis of Human Sei-um, a thousand parts contain, of Water 900 . 00 Albumen 86 . 80 Muriates of potassa, and soda.... 6 . 60 Muco-extractive matter 4 . 00 Subcarbonate of soda 1 . 65 Sulphate of potassa 0 . 35 Earthy phosphates 0 . 60 jl 1000 - ' "i82 Berzelius' Analysis is nearly similar. Seimm differs from chyle, in having no white particles. The crassamentum is composed of two sub- stances; fibrin, and red globules. The nature of fibrin is well known ; but that of the red globules, or colouring matter of the blood, is still a contested point amongst Chemists. It was believed that the red colour of the blood depended on the iron wliich it contained; but the opinion has been rendered ques- tionable by the experiments of Mr. Braude. From them, it is to be inferred that the colouring principle is an animal substance of a peculiar nature; suscep- tible, like the coloiu-ing matter of vegetables, of vmiting with bases, and admitting, probably, of important use in the art of dyeing. The blood drawn in inflainmatoiy diseases, shows a division of the two component parts of the crassamentum. What we call the " huffy coat" is pure fibrin, which is separated from the red particles, in consequence of a subsidence of the latter, whose specific gravity exceeds that of any other material of the blood. In inflammation, the blood is attenuated, and coagulates slowly; there- fore, time is given for the red globules to sink below the fibrin, and this is the explanation of the pheno- menon of the " hnffy coat." The blood is the material used in the formation of new parts, and in the restoration of those injured by accident and disease. Duilng the continuance of83 life, the solids and fluids of the body are constantly imdergoing changes : there is no durability in either, for each solid and fluid is continually acquiring new matter, and losing a pait of that which is old and useless; the sources of addition are the chyle and blood; and those of abstraction, the excretions. If a part sustains an injury by a cutting instrument, and the divided surfaces of the wound be placed in contact, adliesive matter will be eflftised; and this will be the uniting medium. But if there be a loss of substance, lymph is secreted by the vessels of the part, the neighbouring arteries &c. will shoot into it; the lymph wiU thus be endowed with life, the void filled up, and at length the injury repaired; these are illustrations of the processes by which all structures are restored, that are restorable, viz.—adhesion, and granulation; and blood is the source from whence these modes of reparation ai-e derived. The condition of this fluid depends, in great measm-e, on the energy of the powers of digestion; but it may be altered in its properties, by disease. The alterations which the blood undergoes by disease, is an inquiry well deserving the attention of the Pathologist, and Chemist. Amongst other thmgs worthy of notice, is the colour of this fluid imme- diately on abstraction from the vessel. The colour is84 red, in inflammatory disorders; of a dark appearance, in adynamic affections; almost black, in scurvy; and very pale, in diseases of debility. There is a work yet left for the Chemist to accomplish ; which is, to ascertain, by analysis, the changes which different diseases effect in the properties of this fluid. We have seen that there are two orders of blood-vessels in the body, viz.—arteries, and veins. They differ from each other in the deusitj^ of their struGtui-e, and in the rapidity with wliich the blood ciiculates in them. The movement of the blood in the arteries, is much quicker than that in the veins; because the heart gives a much stronger impulse to it in the former vessels; and this is one of the soui-ces of greater danger from wounds of arteries. When called to a person who is. suffering fi'om haemorrhage, we should first ascer- tain whether the bleeding proceeds from a woxmded artery, or a wounded vein; observation on the coloui- of the blood, and the manner in which it flows, wiir soon enable us to determine this point. Arterial blood is scarlet; venous blood is quite dai-k; blood fi'om an artery issues per saltum, but that from a vein rushes in an even, unbroken stream. The importance of discrimination is great; for if an axtery, and vein of the same size were wounded, the one would require a ligature, but the bleed- ing in the other might be commanded by means of pressure. If a wound be inflicted in a' small85 vessel, natiu-e sets up a process, by which the flow of blood is soon suppressed; this process consists in the formation of a coagulum, which fills up the open- ing, and acts mechanically, on the principle of a plug; lymph, in a little time, is effiised, the wound closed, and the coagulum is absorbed. If an arteiy of the size of the temporal should he partially cut, nature might not be able to stop the bleeding; but if divided completely across, she AviU be likely to succeed without any assistance: for, when completely cut, the extremities of the vessel reti-act within the cellular membrane, which entangles the eflfiised blood, and thus lays the foundation of a coagulum, which, as in the former case, temporarily shut the bleeding vessel. Although, now and then, nature alone can suppress a haemor- rhage, the aid of surgical means is often called for, pai-ticularly if it be of an ai-terial land. The common principles in the ti-eatment of haemoiThages, whether internal, or external, is to diminish the force of circulation, by rest, cold, and the produc- tion of sjTicope; but in external haemorrhages, we may employ other means; such as astringents, styptics, escharotics, sponge, compression, and the ligature. How these means act, is sufficiently evident, and I shall only observe, Avith respect to the ligature, that its immediate effect, (as proved by Dr. Jones' experi- ments), is the division of the internal, and muscular coats of the artery, and the approximation of the86 divided surfaces. In a little time, the surfaces adhere through the medium of effused lymph, and the calibre of the vessel is obliterated to the collateral branches, above and below the part on which the ligature was applied. When the artery is sealed, the thread is disengaged from its connections with the vessel, by ulcerating through the external coat. Dr. Jones considers the division of the internal, and middle coats, by the ligature, as an essential part in the operation; and that without it, the vessel could not be obliterated. This, however, has been contra- dicted by that excellent Surgeon, the late Mr. Allan Bums, of Glasgow; and Mr. Charles Bell combats the opinion of Dr. Jones on this subject, in his *' System of Dissections," published in 1809. It is certain, that tke immediate effect of a romid ligature, is the division of the muscular, and membra- nous tunics of the vessels; but that this is essential to obliteration, may, I think, be justly doubted; for we know, that a degree of pressure, which prevents the flow of blood through the artery, is sufficient to excite that adhesive inflammation which will end in an obliteration of its calibre; but that the obliteration is expedited by the injury which the ligature inflicts, there can be no question. In passing a ligature, we should take care to exclude every thing but the vessel; and to use as small87 a one as is compatible with safety; a large ligature is too great a source of irritation, and a very small one will incur the risk of secondaiy haemorrhage, by cutting thi ough the vessel 'ere the sealing process is completed. As a general rule, we may say, all arteries infe- rior in size to the temporal, may safely, in case of womid, be trusted to compression, which is the next most powerful means to the ligature; but when the vessel is of a lai-ger size, one, if not two ligatures wiU be necessary. From the blood, certain fluids are separated by Glands,-or Secreting Organs. No part of Physiology is more obscure than this process of secretion. Our knowledge of it is so limited, that we can only say, certain structures have the ability, from a peculiar arrangement of their parts, to form particular kinds of fluids from the blood, which are either accessary to the performance of certain animal functions; or necessary, in order to rid the system of materials, which, if retained, would prove injurious to its (Economy. There are three kinds of secreting organs in the body; the membranous, the follicular, and the duc- tiform, or complex. Of the first kind, are the dura mater, pleura, peritoneum, tunica vaginalis, and other serous mem-88 braiies, In these organs, the lu-rangeraent pt^ the secreting apparatus is simple. The arteries terminate in two ways; in pores, and veins. The fluid secreted by the capillai-y vessels, exudes through the pores; and the veins return the superfluous quantity of blood. Of the second kind, are those small glandular bodies contained within the mucous membrane of the different passages; and we may class with them the sebaceous follicles; here the secretory appai-atus is less simple. Between the terminations of the arteries, and the commencement of the veins, there is an arrangement of parts, more nearly approaching to that of complex glands. Of the third kind, are those glands which, con- stitute some of the important organs of the body; as the salivaiy glands, the liver, the pancreas, the Iddnies, the testes, and the mammee. In these organs, the pai-enchyma is peculiai-Iy complicated; because the fluids which they secrete, are of a compound nature, and some of them differing essentially fi-om the blood. The screted fluids of the body may thus be classed, in conformity with the organs to which they respec- tively belong: A. —The fluids of the organs of loco-motion. B. _The fluids of the serous membranes of the tlu-ee grand cavities. C. —The fluids of the digestive organs. ,89 D. —The fluids of the sanguiferous and respiratoiy organs. E. —Tlie fluids of the urinary organs. F. —The fluids of the brain, spinal marrow, and nerves. G. —The fluids of the organs of the five senses. H. —The fluids of the organs of re-production. I. —The fluids of the connecting media. A.—The organs of loco-motion are the bones, joints, and muscles. In the bones, we find an oily substance, which is called marrow; it is secreted by the membrana medul- laris, or that vascular membrane which lines the can- cellated structure of bone. On analysis, it is found to consist of pure marrow, albumen, gelatin, a peculiar extractive matter, and water. In the moveable articulations, we find the eapsu-'' lar ligament lined by a very delicate membrane of extreme vascularity, and called the synovial mem-' brane. It secretes the synovia, which lubricates the articulatory surfaces. Synovia is composed of albu- men, gelatin, mucilage, water, and a small quantity of the muriate of soda. With the tendons of certain muscles, there are connected hursse mucosae. They are furnished with a synovial membrane for secreting a fluid, N90 similar in its properties and uses, to the synovia of the joints. The membrane lining the interior of the bones, is liable to inflammation from common and specific causes. When it terminates in the formation of matter, the disease is called " spina ventosa." The synovial membrane too may be atFected, with inflam- mation from common, and specific causes. B —The fluids of the lining membranes of the three grand cavities of the body, are the second class of fluids. The cranium is lined by a membrane, called dura , mater, which, too, is the external envelope of the brain. Under it, are the tunica arachnoidea, and pia mater. The outer surface of the dura mater is in intimate attachment with the bones of the skull. Their adliesion is so close, as to leave no intervening space. Between the inner surface of the dura mater, and the outer surface of the tunica arachnoidea, however, there is an interspace, and this is continued down the spine. It is here that we find a lubricating serous fluid, to prevent the membranes from adhering. It is secreted by the vessels of the dura mater; and a preternatm-al collection of it constitutes the disease called, hydrops membranarum, vel hydrocephalus extenius. In the thorax, we find a lining and reflected membrane, called the pleura, which is of a serous kind. It91 exhales a fluid, which, in the living suhject, is in the form of a halitus; but in the dead, it is found con- densed into a small quantity of moistuie. But for the presence of this secretion, the pleura costalis, and the pleura pulmonalis, would adliere together, being always' in contact; as well in expiration, as in inspi- ration. Adhesions of the pleurae are very commonly met with, in post mortem examinations; and, when considerable, they cause dyspnoea, or difficulty of breathing. The peritoneum is similar in structure, and func- tion, to the pleui-a. C—The fluids concerned in the process of diges- tion, aie, the saUva, the gastric juice, the enteric juice, the bile, the pancreatic juice, and the mucus of the alimentai7 passages. The salim is secreted by the pai-otid, submax- Ulary, and sublingual glands. It is mixed with the aliment in the mouth; and by partially dissolving it, facilitates mastication and digestion. It contains water, mucus, albumen, muriate of soda, phosphate of soda,'pbosphate of lime, and phosphate of ammonia. The gastric juice is the principal agent in the digestion of the food; it is secreted by the villous coat of the stomach, and possesses very remarkable pro- perties. The exact natuie of thjs fluid is not known;92 because there is considerable difficulty iu procuring it unmixed with the other fluids. Its operation would seem to be chemical, siuce it acts upon dead animal fil^re, as well as aliments. The conjectures on the manner in which the fimctions of digestion is per- formed, have been very numerous. In the days of ,.piechanicaj philosophy, the stomach was supposed to triturate the food like a pair of mill-stones ; but this hypothesis, together with those of concoction, of fer^ mentation, and of putrefaction, have all, in their turn, given place to another view, founded on sciepce and experiments, It is admitted now by all, that the gas- tric juice is the agent of digestioji.. Reaumur first stated, that digestion depended on chemical solution; and future experiments have cpnfirmBd the statement. ..; v . \ \ ' ■ Throughout the whole course of the large and ■ small intestines, we find a limpid f uid, ^svhich- {if secretpd by the follicles of the intestines. Its uses are to assist in ehylification, a^d to facilitate the coui-se of I the alimentaiy, and stercoraceous matters, in the iiites- tinal canal. . , ... Bile is the peculiar secretion of the liver, which is'the largest gland in thp . body, and situated in the upper part of the abdominal cavity. The arrangement pf the secretory apparatus in the liver is similar to that of other complex glands; there are arteries carrying , the blood, from which the secretion takes place; veins returning the superabundiint quantity to the heart; and93 tubuli for conveying the secreted fluid to its main cxcretoiy duct. But in tlie blood-vessels of the liver, there is this peculiarity; whUst other glands .are sup-, plied with arterial blood o«///,/this organ receives,, in addition to it, a lai-ge quantity of venous blood, through the medium of the vena - portae, a considerable vessel formed by the union of tjiose. veins which return the blood from the other chylopoietic viscera. It is supposed by many Physiologists, that the blood earned ta the liver by. the hepatic artery, is intended merely for the nourishment of the gland,, and that, the blood of the vena.portae is only for the biUary secretion; but a case related by Mi-. Abemethy, in tlie f Philosophical Transactions," proves that the blood of the ai-tery is subservient to both functions, The subject of the case referred to, was a child, in whom the vena portae terminated at once in the vena cava iiiferior, without approaching the liver; yet the child was well noui-ished; and, on examination after death, bile was found both in the gall-bladder and intestines. ■! The bile is carried from the liver by the hepatic duct; to the gall-bladder, by the cystic duct; and to the intestines, by the ductus communis choledochus. The uses of this fluid aa-e to assist in the chyliferous process, and to excite the peristaltic action of the intes- tines. It is found to consist of a resinous matter, albumen, salts of soda, lime, and oxide of iron.94 Very many serious diseases owe their existence to a deranged state of the biliary secretion. It may be in a deficient quantity, when the functions of digestion and defaecation will suffer; or may be in excess, as in yeUow fever, and in that fatal disease called, cholera morbus; but in these disorders, it is acrid in property, as well as redundant in quantity. The bile may be prevented from passing into the intestines, in which case it will become absorbed, and by entering into the mass of blood, produce jaundice. The obstruction may be temporary, from the pressure on the ducts by suxrounding viscera, as in jaundice from pregnancy; but it is more lasting often in cases of obstruction from a biliary calculus. Biliary calculi are not unfrequentiy found in the gall-bladder, without giving any signs of their existence during life; but if one, or more, should pass into the ducts, very painfiU and dangerous consequences may follow, ■j.' . '''"Biliary concretions are proposed to be arranged under four classes. ""' In the first class, is that kind of gall-stone which has a white colour, and a chrj'stallized, shining, lami- nated, sti-ucture; it is soluble in oil of tuiTentine, and piire alkalies; and of an oval form. 2dly.—That kind which is polygonal, or roimd in its formation, and of a light greyish brown colour.95 It has an extei-nal covering of concentric layers, and within, it is composed of a matter, either chrystallized, or having the appearance of coagulated honey. 3(lly—That species compounded of the preced- ing two. 4thly. A species differing from the others in being neither soluble in alcohol, nor oil of turpentine. Dr. Monro, jun. has, in his " Outlines of Anatomy," described a fifth, but very rare kind of biliary calculus, which, as far as he knows, has never been mentioned. It is of a jet black colour; of a shining appearance; seldom attains a large size, and is very irregular on the surface. In the treatment of biliary disorders, our attention must be principally diiected to the state of the liver; a derangement of which being, in the majority of cases, the primary cause of a morbid secretion of bile. The pancreatic juice is secreted by a long glan- dular body, called the pancreas, lying in the epigastric region, behind the stomach. Like the salivary glands, to which the pancreas is very analogous in structure, it is composed of lobes, which are connected by cellular tissue, and the arteries terminate in two ways, viz.—in the radicles of the excretory ducts, and veins. The excretory duct terminates in the duodenum, some-96 times in cominon with the duct of the liver atid g'all- bladder; and sometimes by an independent orifice. In composition, the pancreatic juice is very similar to the saliva; and its use is to assist in the formation of chyle. In the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, and whole tract of the intestines, very many mucous glands exist. D.—The fluids of the circulating and respirator}^ organs, are in the fourth class. ■tM i JThe heart is contained in a bag, called the peri- cardium, which is, in fact, a reflected membrane, like the pleura, peritoneum, and tunica vaginalis testis. It gives a close, and afterwards a loose covering to the heart. The internal surface is a secreting organ; it secretes a serous fluid named, liquor pericardii, which prevents the close and loose poi-tions of the membrane from adhering together; An accumulation of this fluid constitutes hydrops pericardii. - The lining membrane of the cavities of the heart, arteries, and veins, furnishes a serons secretion, which is useful in facilitating the circulation of the blood. \" 'In the trachea, bronchiae, and pulmonary cells^ there is a mucus, for the lubrication of theii- surfaces. E.—The peculiai' secretion of the kidnies is the97 urine ■ but to defend the parts from this acrid fluid, all the ur'inary passages are provided with mucus, for- nished by the ordinai-y source of that secretion. The kidnies are two imperfectly oval glands, situated in the lumbar region. They ai-e behind the peritoneum; therefore, have only an anterior covering from that membrane. In the kidney, we observe two distinct substances ; the external is caUed the cortical, er secerning; the internal, the tubular pait. .In the centre is a cavity, named, the pelvis of the kidney; and from it, goes olf the ureter, or excretory duct, which terminates in the bladder, by an oblique val- vular entry between its coats. -The bladder is the reservoir in which the urine coHects; and on being distended to a certain point, the stimulus of distention induces a disposition in the bladder to contract; wliich conti-action, assisted by the abdominal muscles, and diaphragm, eifects the evacu- ation of its contents. , The urine is more abundant in quantity than any secretion in the body; and it is more affected by what we eat and drink, than any other. Dr. Henry says, in his " Elements of Expe- EIMENTAL CHEMISTRY," Ninth Edition, that the following substances appear to him, to have been satis- o98 factoaily proved to exist in healthy iirine^ viz,—water ; free jjhosphorie acid; phosphate of lime; phosi)hate of magnesia; fluoric acid; uric acid; benzoic acid; lactic acid; urea; gelatine ; albumen; lactate of am- monia ; suljihate of potassa; sulphate of soda; fluate of lime; muriate of soda; phosphate of soda; phos- phate of ammonia; sulphur; silica; making twenty ingiedients, Bers^elius, in his Analysis of Urine, speaks of its containing seventeen different ingredients, viz.— water; urea; sulphate of potash; sulphate of soda; phosphate of soda; phosphate of ammonia; mmiate of soda; mm'iate of ammonia; animal matter, soluble in alcohol, and usually accompanying the lactates; animal matter, insoluble in alcohol; urea, not sepa- rable from the preceding; earthy phosphate, with a ti'ace of fluate of lime; mic acid; mucus of the bladder, and silex; but the composition of the mine must vary, according to the age, constitution, state of health, and the nature of the ingesta. There are no diseases that have more engaged the attention than those connected with the urinary system; and, generally speaking, there ai'e none more painful, and distressing. From inflammation, and other causes, the secre- tion may be suppressed; or the reverse of this may happen, as in diabetes.99 By disease, it is often altered in its appearance; in bilious fevers, it is of a yellow colour; in inflam- matory disease, it is red, &c. Imiumerable, almost, are the appeai-ances which it assumes, under diflTerent circumstances; and, taken alone, the urine will often furnish the most satisfactory diagnosis of disease. The impediments to the discharge of urine from the bladder, are amongst the most formidable of all surgical diseases. They may reside in the bladder itself; in the prostate gland; or in the urethra. When the bladder loses its tone, from over distension, the catheter, and other means, will be necessary. When the prostate gland is enlarged, as it usually is in old age, there is often a mechanical obstruction to the flow of urine ; and the catheter is the only method of giving relief. When stiictm-e in the urethra is the cause of retention, we must aim at removing the stricture by bougies ; but for temporary purposes, we must introduce the catheter; and if this be not jjracticable, there ai-e two resources left; the one is, to make an opening into the urethi-a, behind the stricture; the other is, to pmictiu'e the bladder. Of late years, some of the most eminent Chemists have turned their attention to the examination of uri- nary calculi. Dr. Woolaston, Mr. Brande, Dr. Mar- cet. Dr. Hem-y, and Professor Vauquelm, have done much for this department of science. The materials usually met with in these concretions, are, luic acid;100 tiiple phosphate, or amraoiiiaco magnesiaii phosphate; and oxalate of lime. Those composed of uric acid, arc known by their being laniiaiated, and having the ajipeai-ance of box-wood. Those composed of the tiiple phosphate, are white and fiiable; breaking between the fingers with the greatest ease. And those of the oxalate of lime, have an irregular sui-face; from which circumstance, they are named the mulben-y calculi. But there are some calculi composed principally of the phpsphate of lime; and others, of the carbo- nate of lime; hence, Dr, Henry has adopted the following classification, which seems to him, sufficient for every pvu'pose of arrangement. 1st.—Calculi which are chiefly composed of uric acid, or uj-£vte of ammonia. 2diy.—Calculi piincipally [composed of the am- niouiaco magnesian phosphate. 3aiy._Calculi consisting, for the most part, of phosphate of lime. 4tliy._Calculi containing, principally, carbo- nate of lime, StWy—Calculi which derive their characteristic property from oxalate of liuie.101 eilily.—CalciUi composed of the substance dkoo- vered by Dr. Woolaston, aiid called by him, cysHc oxide. If any addition were made to the above classes, Dr. Henry proposes to add tlie two following : Calculi containing several of the foregoing ingre- dients, in «UQh a state of admixture, as not to be dis- tinguishable without chemical analysis; and Those, in which the diffei-ent substances are dis- posed in diltinct layers, or i» concentric strat*. When a calculus forms in the bladder, no solvent can reach it; therefore, if too large to be voided per m-ethram, the operation of lithotomy is demanded. To perfoi-m it \yith safety, the jmatomy of the peri- neum, urethra, and pelvic viscera, must be perfectly understood. For this, I sball refer the reader to tiiat part of the volume which treats on Relative Position. F _The fluids of the nervous system are in the sixth class. In the ventricles of the brain, we find a serous fluid, secreted principally by that net-work of vessels in each ventricle, called, the choroid plexus. Its utility, in all probability, is not so limited as common opinion supposes, viz.-to prevent the sides of the102 ventricles from fallmg together. When collected in large quantity, it forms hydrocephalus internus. In the sheaths of the nerves, there is an aqueous hxmiour, which serves to keep the nervous fibrils moist, &c. G.—We may divide the fluids of the eye, into those of the appendages, and those situated in the interior of the organ. The tears, and meibomian fluid, are secretions of the first division; the aqueous humour, the lens, the viti-eous humoui-, and the pig- mentum nigrum, of the second. The tears are formed by the lachrymal glands; one in each eye. The gland occupies a depression in the upper, and outer part of the orbit. There proceed from it, six or seven small ducts, which open on the inner side of the upper eye-lid. After being diffiised over the surface of the eye, to moisten it, and to obviate the effects of attrition from the motion of the eye-lids, the tears are conveyed to the puncta lachrj^- malia into the lachrymal sac, and from thence to the nose. The tears contain, mucus, water, and a small quantity of saline matter. Between the tarsi, and lining membrane of the eye-lids, the meibomian follicles are seen. The secretion from them is of an oily nature, and prevents the accretion of the eyelids duiing sleep.103 The aqueous humour occupies the chambers of the eye, or that space situated between the cornea before, and the cajisule of the ciystalline lens behind. The vessels of the iris are supposed to secrete it. This fluid is a very powerful solvent; but chemical analysis goes no way towards explaining the reason of it; since it is nothing more than albumen, gelatin, water, and a little common salt. The crystalline lens is a solid substance; but we are in the habit of classing it amongst the humours of the eye. A fluid, however, is contained in its capsule. The lens refracts, and transmits the rays of light to the vitreous humour. The vitreous humour forms the greatest part of the eye; the crystalline lens is received into a depres- sion on its anterior surface; and posteriorly, and late- rally, the retina is expanded on it. It is composed of a watery fluid, enclosed in cells; and the whole is sunnounted by a membrane, called, timica hyaloidea vitrea, vel aranea. The vitreous humoor collects the rays of light, in their transmission fi'om the lens to the retina. The pigmentum nigrum is secreted by the vessels of the choroid coat. Its use is to absorb the rays of light, which, if admitted to the retina in superfluous quantity, would cause confusion in vision.104 Between the skin and cartilages of the ear, there are very many small bodies, called, cei-uminous glands, which secrete the ivax. In the internal ear, we have the water of tJie lahyrinthy which is supposed to be secreted by the membrane which lines the concha, vestibule, and semicircular canals. It sei"ves as a medium for trans- mitting the rays of sound from the membranes of the foramen ovale, to the sensible expanded pulp of the auditory nerve. A deficiency of either of the above secretions will alfect, more or less, the auditoiy function. There is a mucous secretion in the nostrils, formed by the mucous glands. Its use is to defend the papill£e of the alfactory nei-ves. In catarrh, the secretion is increased. All the cavities which communicate with the nostrils, ai-e lined by a membrane, furnished with the same secretory apparatus as the pituitary membrane of the nose. The fluids of the mouth are the saliva, and mucus; the former has been already mentioned; the latter is secreted by the tonsils, and other mucous glands. *105 The flxiid of the skin is the matter of perspira- tion which is exhaled by the cutaneous vessels. It keeps the skin moist; and supports the equal tempe- rature of the body. ' Monsieur Thenard, a well-known French Che- mist, gives the following analysis of this fluid; water; free acetic acid; muriate of soda; a small quantity of phosphate of lime; oxide of iron; and a gelatinous animal matter. H.—By the internal smface of the tunica vaginalis, a halitus is secreted; similar, in every respect, to that of the dura mater, pleura, and peritoneum; it is to prevent adhesion between the close and reflected tunics of the testis. When the fluid is preternatural in quantity, the disease is called hydrocele. The semen is secreted by the testes. According to the French Chemist Vauquelin, it is composed of water, animal mucilage, phosphate of lime, and soda. The prostate gland is a body situated at the neck of the bladder. It secretes a milky fluid, which is said to be useful as a vehicle for the semen. The mucus of the urethra is secreted by the mucous glands of the passage, for the purpose of shieldmg the lining membrane of the urethra, from the acrid quality of the urine. p106 Near the corona glandis, there are follicles which form a sebaceous fluid to luhricate the glaiids, and to render the prepuce capable of being drawn forwards, or retracted, without injury to the sensible glans. The fluids of the female organs are principally of a mucous kind, for the defeiice of the passages. There is a serous fluid in the cavity of the uterus, exhaled by the extremities of the arteries, and it is probable that the menstrual fluid is derived fi-om the same vessels. I—The reticulated membrane is naturally be- dewed with a moisture; but this is very inconsiderable in a healthy state of the body. The adipose mem- brane consists of distinct cells, which are filled with an oily fluid. These aa-e the secreted fluids; and their quantity, imited to that of the chyle, and blood, is supposed to exceed in weight, the solids of the body. With respect to the Padiology of secreting organs, we may remark, that when they are attacked with inflammation, their function is afiected The eflfect of a slight degree of inflammatory action, is an increase of their secreted fluid; but a higher degree is attended with suppressed secretion; thus, when the eye is triflingly inflamed, there is a constant rmiuiiig107 of tears; but when the opthalmia is very acute, the surface of the eye is dry, and exceedingly paiufiU. In mild hepatitis, there is an augmented secretion of bile; in a very acute attack, the formation of bile is suspended; and the stools are white, or clay coloured. The same happens with regard to the urine, in neph- ritis, &c. These effects of different degrees of inflam- mation, all secreting organs experience ; the remarks here emitted, will, therefore, allow of extensive appli- cation, and wiU serve to simplify the nature of certain dropsies, and the treatment which they requii-e. The Nervous System, which is next to be considered, exercises an absolute controul over all the fiinctions which we have hitherto described. The muscles, which are the active organs of loco-motion, are subordinate to it. The stomach cannot digest; the heart cannot beat; and the secreting organs cannot separate their fluids from the blood without it; indeed, it has the supreme dominion over all the functions of animal life, and its existence is the most striking distinguishing character between animal and vege- table substances. The nervous system includes the brain; the spi- nal marrow ; and the nerves. The spinal marrow, and nerves, communicate with the brain; and are the media of connection betwixt the body, and the mind. Without this com-lOB munication, they could not perform the functions which nature has assigned to them, viz.—volition, and sensation. We may will to move the arm; but if the nerves going to the muscles, be divided, or paralised by pressure, the will cannot manifest itself; for it is through the nerves, that the mental desire to will, is transmitted to the moving organs. The physical constitution of the coats, and humours of the eye, may be perfect; light may be admitted, and properly refiracted, in its passage through them; but if the optic nerve be intercepted in its course to the brain, the mind cannot be sensible to the impression of the rays of light; in which case, there will be no vision; and the same obtains with regard to hearing, smelling, tasting, and touching. But the question agitated amongst Physiologists is, on what principle does nervous energy depend? We cannot answer; and, with humility, must confess that it is a blank in human knowledge. A recent attempt has been made to substitute another method of dissecting the brain, for the mecha- nical one which has long been pm-sued in anatomical schools. The reformers in this branch of Anatomy, ai-e Gall and Spurzeim; and in some particulars, the peculiarities of their researches, are entitled to our attention. Instead of slicing the brain, in order to o-ive certain appearances, and to expose remarkable109 prominent or depressed points, these Anatomists have had in view, the demonstration of minute structure; by which they profess to have gained a more satisfac- tory clue to the functions of the cerebral organ. They have shown that the bram is fibrous, a circumstance lost sight of in the ordinary method of dissecting it; and for the same reason, that the fibrous structure of an apple caiuiot be observed, when smoothly cut. There is one fact which deserves notice, because it is corroborative of Gall and Spurzeim's opinion on the real structure of the brain, and the connection between its structure, and its functions; a fact which defies proof by the common mode of dissection. It has been confirmed, by examining bodies, after death, that when hemiplegia is the result of cerebral lesion, the paralysis is on the opposite side of the body to the seat of disease in the brain. In following the fibres of the medulla oblongata. Gall and Spurzheim discovered a decussation of them; that is to say, the fibres of the right side of the brain passed to the left side of the body, and vice versa; and this affords an easy solu- tion of the pathological fact alluded to. It would appear then, that the fibres transmit the nervous influence; and if so, it is more scientific to trace them from their source to their destination, than to dissect the brain, with the intention of exposing eminences and depressions in its cavities and sub- stance ; I shall say nothing, however, on their physio- logical theory, with regard to the individual functions, of individual portions of the brain.110 Gall and Spurzeim's anatomical researches have induced them to come to the following conclusions; that the cincriteous and medullary substances of the brain, are inseparable, the one from the other; that the former is the matrix of the latter; that the medulla is composed of white fibres, which converge towards certain points, named, commissui-es; and that these commissures are the media of communication of the fibres of the opposite sides of the brain; in all this, I see no inconsistency, and nothing but what we may suppose to be tnie; but the doctrine is in its infancy, and if not well founded, will be sure to experience the fate of other anatomical opinions, equally plausible at the period of their birth; but foiuid untenable by the searchers after truth. We have stated, that Gall and Spurzeim believe that the cortical part of the brain is the matiix of the medullai-y; and consequently, of the nerves. Pro- fessor Tiedemann, who has made many interesting researcbes in the Anatomy of the brain, is opposed to this opinion. He says, that the cortical matter is formed after the medullary; and that the origui of the ^spinal and cerebral nerves, are visible before the least trace of the former can be observed. There are many other points, in which Anatomists disagi-ee; we should therefore, as yet, be very cautious in inclining our minds to any particular docti-ine. The brain is usually divided into three parts,Ill cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata; these parts are covered by membranes, called, dura mater, tunica ai-acbnoidca, and pia mater. The Cerebrum consists of two hemispheres, which ai-e separated by the falx major. The hemis- pheres are divided into lobes, and subdivided into convolutions. The Cerebellum is situated in the posterior fossae of the cranium; it has two lobes, formed by a process of the dura mater, named, falx minor; and the cerebellum is separated from the cerebrum, by means of another process of the same membrane, called, tentorium. The last part of the brain, is the Medulla Ob- longata, which lies upon the basilar process of the OS occipitis. The appearances worthy of notice in the cerebral mass, are, the corpus callosum; the cortical and medullary substances; the lateral ventricles; the cor- nua; the thalami nervorum opticorum; the corpora striata; the septum lucidum; the fornix; the plexus choroides; the foramen Mouroinum; the third ventri- cle ; the commissures of the third ventricle; the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum; the iter ad infundi- bulum; the tubercula quadiigemina; the infimdi- bulum; the pituitary gland; the corpora albicantia;112 the pons Varolii; the crura cerebri; the crura cerebelli •, the fourth ventricle: the corpora olivaria; the corpora pyramidalia; and by a vertical section of the cerebel- lum, we produce an appearance, which is called the arbor vitJE. I shall refer the student to works pro- fessedly anatomical, for the more minute anatomy of the brain. Of the uses of the individual prominences of the cerebral organ, we cannot, as yet, boast of any posi- tive knowledge. From the optic nerves taking their origin, in great measure, from the thalami nervorum opticorum, these bodies have been considered, by Physiologists, as particularly subservient to the visual function; but, in the "Archives Generales de Mede- cine," for June, 1823, there is a Paper, by M. M. Foville and Pinel-Grandchamps, in which, the authors assign another function to them. At a Meeting of the "Academic Royale de Medecine," they related the case of a female, who had laboured for several years under a complete paralysis of the upper and lower extremities of the left side. An old extra- vasation was found in the right hemisphere of the brain, in the medullary space, outwai-dly^ between the thalami optici, and corpora striata; and equally affect- ing these two parts. M. M. Foville and Pinel-Grand- champs presented this fact to the Academy, as con- finning their previous observations, that the seat of motion in the upper exti-emities, is placed in the tha- lami, and that of motion m the lower, in the corpora striata.113 This is a too hasty opinion; and until more facts ai-e brought forward in support of it, we are not justified in adopting it. The Spinal Makrow is said, by most Anato- mists, to be a continuation of the brain; Gall and Spm-zeim, however, think differently. They say, that they are connected; not continuous. In its course down the vertebral canal, it sends off the spinal nerves, which are thii'ty-one pairs; and on reaching- the first or second lumbal- vertebra, it terminates in a bushy exti-emity, called, cauda equina, from its resemblance to the tail of a horse. Its coverings are the same, as those of the brain. The Nerves are whitish cords, composed of fibres, which aj-e vmited together by fine membrane, and enclosed in a cellular sheath. They are furnished with blood-vessels, &c., like other organised parts. The nerves, like the arteries and veins, pass into the different sti-uctures of the body, and are often seen in company with them; but there are textures, in which arteries and veins can be easily demonstrated, but where no vestige of nerves can be detected; and, according to the experiments of Ilaller, Portal, and other Physiologists, these parts do not evince the, least degree of feeling. Are we to infer from this, that they do not possess nerves ? QlU I believe that there is no organized part of the human body completely destitute of nerves; by organized part, I mean, no living part. The cuticle, the nails, the hairs, have not any; but these are not living structures; they are merely secretions, and excrescences from living sti'actures. The bones, peri- osteum, eai-tilages, tendons, and membranes, com- monly ranked amongst parts devoid of sensibility, are not wanting nerves; we cannot trace them in either of these substances; but disease proves their existence. In mflamraation of bone, peri- osteum, the dura mater, pleura, and peritoneum, there would be no pain if there were no nei-ves ; as it is, no diseases are accompanied with more agonizing pain than pleuritis, peritonitis, &c. hence nerves must be present, although minute anatomy cannot show them. It may be laid down as positive, that no organized part is without nerves ; ljut in some struc- tures, they are more munerous than in others ; hence, their different degrees of sensibility. How nerves terminate is a matter of conjecture in many cases; but we well know how a few are disposed of. Thus, the olfactory nerves spread on the pituitary membrane of the nose, to give us the sense of smell; the optic expand to form the retinae; the auditoi-y nerves line the walls of the labyrinth of the ears, for the sense of hearing; but how the nerves entering the viscera, mnscles, &c. end, we cannot positively de- termine.115 The nerves take their origin from two sources; the brain, and spinal marrow. Those irom the former ai-e called, the cerebral nerves; those from the latter, the spinal nerves; which are divided into cervical, lumbar, dorsal, and sacral. The cerebral nerves are, 1— Olfactorii, 2— Optici, 3— Motores oculorum, 4— Pathetici, 5— Trigemini, 6— Abducentes, 7— Auditorii, 8— Faciales, 9— Glosso Phai-yngei, 10— Pneumo-Gastrici, 11— Linguales. The name given to each of the above pairs, with the exception of two or three, will lead us to infer their respective distribution and uses. They supply the organs and parts connected with the head and face, the pneumo-gastrici excepted. The nerves which supply the organs of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis, are the pneumo-gas- trici before-mentioned, and the nervi sympathetici. Each nervus pneumo-gastricus arises from the tfide of the cms cerebelli, and from a fissme obsei-ved116 between it, and the corpus olivarc. It leaves the cra- nium through tlie foramen lacerum posterius, and appears at the upper part of the neck, in company with the accessory nerve of Willis, and the glosso pharyngeal. It descends in the neck between the jugular vein, and the carotid ai-tery, enclosed in the same common sheath, and afterwards is continued tlu-ough the chest into the abdomen, where it ends. Its jjrincipal branches are, 1— Nervus Phaiyngeus, 2 — Laryngeus, 3— Rami Cardici, 4— Nervus Recun-ens, 5— Rami Pulmonares, 6 (Esophagei, 7— ■ Coronarii. The sympathetic nerves may be regarded as a separate system; they have been distinguished by the names, systema ganglioiaun, and systema vitae auto- maticai; the former, from their consisting of a number of ganglia; the latter, from their subserviency to the functions of automatic life. On each side, it is seen coming out of the base of the skull, and may be followed downwai-ds, through the neck, chest, and abdomen, to the os coccygis, where it terminates. In its course, it forms the following ganglia, I—Cervical Ganglia, consisting of117 rt.—Superior Cervical Ganglion. b. —Middle Cervical Ganglion. c. —Inferior Cei-vical Ganglion. o—Thoracic Ganglia, from which the splanchnic branches arise. 3— Lumbar Ganglia. 4— Sacral Ganglia. In the abdomen, near the trunk of the cceliac artery, we see the semilunar ganglion. Between the cceliac and superior mesenteric arteries, are several small ganglia, named, tlie cceliac ganglia. Near this part, we find numerous nervous filaments, crossing and re-crossing each other, and forming a compli- cated net work, which has been called, the solar plexus; fi'om this point, branches go olf to the prin- cipal viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, and each set of branches is termed a plexus; thus, we have the hepatic plexus; the superior mesenteric plexus; the renal, or emulgent plexus; the spermatic plexus ; the inferior mesenteric plexus; and the hypogasti-ic plexus. There is scarcely a part in the body, that may not be drawn into a sympathetic consent with this dif- fused and beautiful system of nerves. Its junctions, by means of ganglia, with the cerebral, and spinal nerves, offer an easy solution of this fact. Th'^e nerves which go off f rom the spinal mar- row, are thirty-one pairs, which are divided into nine118 cervical; twelve dorsal; five lumbar; and five sacral. The cervical nerves are, 1—Nervus Accessorius Willisii, The above nerves' are chiefly distributed to muscles. The fourth, third, and sometimes the second cervical nerves, send off filaments to form the phrenici. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth cervical, and first dorsal, which are much larger than the pre- ceding spinal nerves, unite to form the axillary plexus. From the axUlary plexus, arise the nerves that supply the upper extremity, viz,— 1— Thoracici, 2— Scapxilaris, 3— Articularis, 4— Cutaneus Internus, 2— 3— 4— 5— - Suboccipitalis, - Cervicalis Primus, - — Secimdus, Teitius. or diaphragmatic nerves. 5— - 6 Cutaneus. Minors Externus, vel Muscido 7— Spinalis, 8— Medianus, 9— Ulnaris.119 There are twelve pairs of dorsal nei'ves; the first lias ah eady been disposed of. The remaining eleven make then- exit from the canal, through the vertebral foramina; and after forming ganglia with the sympa- thetic, each nerve divides into an anterior, and poste- rior branch, to supply the muscles and integuments of the parietes of the chest and spine. The anterior branches of the lumbar, and sacral nei-ves, form the Crural Plexus. The principal branches sent off from this plexus, are, 1- Nervus Spermaticus Extemus, 2 Cutaneus Superior, 3 Glutaeus Superior, 4 Inferior, 5 Pudicus Communis, 6 Obturatorius, 7 Cruralis, 8 Sciaticus. The sciatic nerve divides, about half-way down the thigh, into 1— Nervus Fibularis, 2 Tibialis, which are distributed to the leg and foot. By showing the situation, and course of the nerves of the pelvis, and lower exti'eraity, we may120 explain some of the painful sensations which women experience in the progress of parturition. The nerves are the auxiliary instruments of sen- sation, and voluntary motion; but the manner in which these functions ai-e performed is still doubtful. An interesting theoi^ has recently been advanced by Mr. C. Bell, upon the functions of nerves; I shall present it in brief to the reader. The common opmion entertained is, that the nerves are a series of tubes, which transmit to the different structures of the body, a power, which is secreted by the brain ; but as Ana- tomy cannot demonstrate the nei*ves as tubular, Mr. Bell thinks, that the theory is not compatible with our real knowledge of the structural arrangement of nei-ves. Many parts are more abundantly supplied with nerves than others, and it has been supposed that this was necessary, because they stood m need of a more bountiful provision of nervous energy; but Mr. Bell is of opinion, that the hypothesis is fallacious. He says, however perfect the enjoyment of any sense, or however exquisite the fmiction of any part may be, one nerve is sufficient to bestow the power; that, for one pui-pose, no more than one nerve is requii-ed; and that the accumulation of many nerves to augment the power, or improve the fmiction, is as untiue in fact, as it is unphilosophical in theory. When a part is supplied with many nerves, it is for the pui-pose (Mr. Bell thinks) of enabling the organ to perform many offices, or to connect it with different operations of the121 economy, and not to au£?mcnt v/hat has been vaguely called the nervous power. For the illustrations oi Mr Bell's theory, I shall refer the reader to his Papers, published in the Journal of Science and Arts;' the " Philosophical Transactions of the Bo,/al Society^ and elsewhere. On the A^hole, we must consider the theory as ingenious; aiad the inves- tigations which Mr. Bell and Mr. Shaw are engaged in, as likely to lead to an extension of our knowledge of'the fimctions of the nervous system. Additional evidence hi favour of their opinion, has been afforded by some experiments made by S. D. Brougton, Esq. and of wMch an account is given in the " Medical and Physical Journal;' for June, 1823-. The brain, the spinal marrow, and the nerves, are the organs of sensation in general, sensation being a generic term; but the species of this faculty require paiticular organs in order to convey to the mind, the different impressions which external objects are capable of making; thus, the eye is necessary to impress an idea of distance, and colour; the ear, to distinguish sounds; the nose, to detect the presence of odours; the tongue, to ascertain the savour of bodies ; and the papilla of the cutis vera, to discover the qualities of hardness, softness, smoothness, rough- ness, heat, and cold. The sensations may be reduced to five kinds, viz.—seeing, hearing, smeUing, tasting, and touch; but the organs of these sensations are mere instruments to receive and collect impressions; 11122 their functiou being tlependent on the communication whifh exists between their nei-ves and the brain. The organ of vision is the Eye, consisting of parts which admit of being divided into appendages, and globe; the former are accessary to the function of the eye; the latter is composed of coats, and humours, which serve to refract the rays of light, and other purposes. The appendages of the eye are the snpercilia, or eye-brows; the palpebra>, or lids; the cilia, or lashes; the tarsi, or cartilaginous edges of the lids; the meibo- mian glands; the tunica conjunctiva; the lachrymal apparatus; and muscles. The eye-brows moderate light, which, if intense, confuses vision. The lids are subservient to the same use, and, by the motion of the palpebra superior, the tears are diffused over the surface of the eye. The lashes guard the eye in some measure, against the entrance of foreign bodies; but tkey likewise lessen the intensity of the light; and Morgagni believed, that persons with black eye-lashes have greater strength of sight, than those with wliite. The tarsi, when the lids are closed, form a canal, by which the tears are conducted to the puncta lachry- malia. The meibomian glands, which are very con- spicuous in the ox, and large animals, secrete a yellow fluid, which moistens the lashes, and prevents the agglutination of the lids dm-ing sleep. The Tunica Conjunctiva gives a covering to the anterior surface123 of the eye, and connects the appendages with the globe. The hichrymal apparatus consists of the gland, pnncta, caruncle, sac, and ductus ad nasum. The gland, which is situated in a depression behind the external augular process of the os frontis, secretes the tears, which are carried fi-om. it by meBz^s of several small ducts, which open on the surface of the tunica conjunctiva. The teai's, after moistening tlie surface of the eye, are dii-ected by the carmicle, or thai; small red body seen at the inner comer, into the puncta lachrymalia, whicht erminates in the lachi7mal sac; and from this sac the tears are conveyed into the nose. Although the laclirymal gland is allowed by all Physiologists, to be one source of tliis fluid, which lubricates the eye, Portal thinks that it is not the only one; for he believes that the arterial extremities of the tunica conjunctiva exhale a part of it. He says, in his Anatomy, " Nous ne nierons pas qv? utie partie de la liqueur lachrymale, ne provienne du corps, ou de la glande lachrymale; nous dirons cependant que c'est de la conjonctive que decoule la plus quantite de cette Jmmeur: elle «' ejf^hale des extremiUs arterielles, et est reprise en partie pas les vaisseaux hjmphatiques, ou ahsorbans: Ze' reste coiile dans les points lachnjmaux, d' ou elle parvient dans le nez." That the tunica conjunctiva is an absorbing and secreting membrane, is very probable; but that the fluid which it secretes, is analogous to that of the jachrymal gland, we have no proof. If M. Portal means to off'er as such, that " an increased sensibility124 of the conjunctiva angments the secretion of tears; but if that sensibility is too great, the secretion dimi- nishes, and ceases;" we cannot receive it as evidence, for we know that all the structures of the eye sympa- thize -with each other, and that this cause, or an extension of the morbid sensibility to the lachrymal gland, will be quite sufficient to occasion an aug- mented secretion of tears. We have already stated the effects of inflammation, when it attacks a glandular structure; and in a subsequent part of the volume, shall illustrate them in a more particular manner. We conceive then, that when the tunica conjunctiva is slightly inflamed, either sympathy, or a sjireading of the inflammation to the lachrymal gland, is the cause of increased secretion; and that a greater degree of inflammatoi-y action operating, mediately or immedi- ately, on the same organ, is the cause of its suspen- sion. The direct, and only source of the tears, seems to be the lachrymal gland; for we camiot see the necessity of there being any other provision. The last of the appendages of the eye are the muscles. The orbicular muscle smTounds the eye- lids, and, by contracting, shuts them. They are opened by the relaxation of this muscle, and by the action of the levator palpebrae superioris. From the bottom of the orbit, there aiise muscles, which are inserted into the sclerotica, and act on the ball of the eye. The adductor oculi dii'ects the ball towards the nose; the abductor oculi carries it outwai'ds; the1-25 levator raises it; the depressor directs it towards the o rouiid; and to give degrees of obliquity to it, there Ire two oblique muscles. The four first of these muscles are, by some Anatomists, called the " recti when they act iu succession, the eye is rolled in its socket; but when all are inaction at the same time, the globe is fixed. Mr. C. Bell communicated to the " Royal Society," in 1823, a Paper on cei-tain motions of the •eve, which have hitherto been undescribed. Thus, every time the eye-lids are brought together, to cover the globe, the eye turns iipwai'ds; Avithout which motion, it woidd not be properly moistened, nor the particles of dust removed from its surface. Dm-ing sleep, the ball is turned upwards, so as to lodge under the superior lid. These movements are rapid and involuntary, while others are under the govern- ment of the will; and for the purpose of directing the eye to different objects. Hitherto, both the oblique, and the straight muscles, have been regai'ded as volun- tary ; but Mr. Bell maintains, that the oblique are for the performance of the insensible motions; and the recti, for those mider the command of volition. That the functions of these muscles are inseparably con- nected with the retina, and cease to act when it becomes insensible, while the obliqvie muscles come into play, and di'aw the pupil upwards, beneath the upper eye-lid. Hence that turning of the eye-ball which we witness in sleep, in fainting, or in death, is but the indication of insensibility.126 The power which the eye has, of adapting itself to distances, is, by some Physiologists, ascribed to the recti muscles compressing the ball of the eye, and changing its conformation. To view objects placed at different distances, either the whole, or some part of this organ, must have the ability to undergo changes, in order to adj&st the focal point; for the rays of light which reach the eye ft-om a near, and those fi-om a distant object, could not converge at the retina, the seat of vision, without some alteration; either in the length of the axis; in the form of the cornea; in the position of the otlier refractmg media; or in the situation of the retina itself. If we suppose that the four sti-aight muscles can compress the scle- rotic coat sufficiently to alter the axis, or to push for- wards the humom-s, and thereby to increase in a mate- rial degree, the convexity of the cornea, we need not seek for other means of accounting for the adjustment of the eye to distances; but it is far from being certain that the muscles have this compressing effect, to the adequate extent, even in the human eye; and certainly not in such animals as have the tunica sclerotica of considerable thickness. The axis of the eye, or the form of the coniea, then, are not likely to be much altered by the action of the four recti muscles; but comparative Anatomy furnishes us with a fact, which proves that the cornea may be one of the instruments of adaptation; for Mr. Crampton informs us, in the " Annals of Philosophij;' that he has demonstrated the existence of a muscle in birds, capable of changing127 its form, and wlxich he considers as the organ em- ployed to alter the convexity of the eye. Where, however, there is no such direct provision as this, we must look for an auxiliary power of adjustment, and the weight of reasoning seems to be in favour of its being seated in the iiis, which, from its capa- bility of contracting, and expanding the aperture of the pupil, excludes certain rays of light, and admits such only as ai-e necessary for distinct vision. This phenomenon of vision is one of much interest; and Physiologists are by no means agreed in their expla- nation of it. In the number of the " Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburffh," which appeared in the spring of the present yeax, there is a Paper by Dr. Knox, on the comparative Anatomy of the eye, in which the author states, that that part of the organ called the ciliaiy ligament, is not ligamen- tous, but muscular in structure; and that it is on this, that depends the ability which the eye has of adapting itself to distance. These are amongst the facts which Dr. Knox brings forward, in support of his opinion^— l_The developement of the ciliary muscle follows the ratio of the strength of vision; or rather the accommodating powers of the eye, in the various classes of animals. o._when examined by the microscope, it puts,128 on the same appearance as tlie- iris, ami presaits the same arrangement of particles. 3.—In most birds, and in many of the mam- malia, as in the quadi-umanous and canine animals, numerous nei-ves can readily be demonstrated pro- ceeding to the ciliary muscle, and distributed through- out its substance. Ligaments, on the coutrarj', are very spaiingly supplied with nei-ves. If the ciliary ligament be really muscular, it may be accessary to such a fimction, by changing the situation of the crystalline lens. The globe of the eye is made up of coats and humours, and certain appendages to each. It is nearly spherical in form; indeed, would be exactly so, if the sphere were not interrupted by the gi-eater convexity of the transparent cornea. The humours, and the other delicate pai'ts of the eye, are enclosed in a dense membrane, called, the tunica sclerotica; anteriorly, it receives the cornea, which is ti-ansparent, and may, by maceration, be separated from the sclerotic coat; posteriorly, it is pierced by the optic nei-ve, which enters at the iimer part of the optic axis; this axis being defined by drawing a central line fi-om the anterior to the poste- rior surface of the eye.129 Under the sclerotic, we find a black coat, which is named the tunica choroides. It is seen to com- mence at the optic nerve, and to end at the liga- mentum cUiare, which, with true deference to Dr. Knox, seems to me to be nothing more than compact cellular tissue. The choroid tunic was supposed by Jluysch to consist of two lamina ;^ but modern minute Anatomists have exposed this mistake, by cUscovering thfit the laminated appearance ai-ises from a difference in the dii-ection of the external and internal vessels of this membrane; those which are situated externally, run vorticosely; but those internally, have a disposition parallel to each other. The tunica choroides is a secreting membrane; its secretion is a black fluid, named, pigmentum nigi'um, wliich absorbs the super- fluous rays of light. In tlae race of men, called, Albinos, this pigment is wanting; and so it is in the oAvl, and some animals; in which cases the eyes appear red, in consequence of the blood-vessels being visible; and such men and animals can see better in a weak, tlian in a strong light. To the ligamentum ciliare is attached the iris, >vhich floats in the aqueous humour, and divides the eye into two chambers; the anterior chamber is bounded by the cornea before, and the iris behind; the posterior chamber has the iris on the fore part, and the ciystalline lens posteriorly. The anterior surface of this curtain-like membrane, is of different colours, in different individuals; and sometimes130 not of the same in both eyes. In the Eighty-sixth number of the " Medical Repository,^'' there is a case related by Dr. Andrew Smith, shewing the remarkable eflfect of disease, in changing the coloui* of the iris. While examining the eyes of the soldiers in the garmson. Isle of Wight, an individual presented himself with the iris of the right eye of a grey, and that of the left, of a light green colour. Ujjon inqui- ring into the history of this unusual appearance. Dr. Smith found that the left had only changed to a green colour within the last seventeen months, from the consequences, it was supposed, of a severe blow. The posterior surface of the iris is dark, and radiated; the radii are named the ciliary processes. Sir Everard Home, in his " Croonian Lecture on the Anatomical Structure of the Eye" mentions, that he has ascertained, by the microscope, the radii to be eighty in number; and that in the interstices between them are bundles of muscular fibres, which pass from the capsule of the vitreous humour, to the capsiile of the lens. In the centre of the iris, is an opening, called, the pupil, which is round in the human subject; hori- zontal, in grazing animals; and vertical, in those of the cat kind. Physiologists do not agree as to the stnicture of the iris ; but from the pupil being susceptible of con-131 U-actiou and dilatation, the most prevalent, and pi^o- bable opinion is, that it is in part, if not wholly .nuscula.-. Some have supposed, that the dimumtxon and expansion may be explained by the changes which the vascular structui-e of the iris experiences from saaiguineous determination; thus, when the retina is impressed with a too vivid light, blood is determined to tie iris in an increased quantity, by which the vessels are distended, and the aperture of the pupil encroached on; but when the stimulus is withdiawn the blood recedes, and the pupil resumes its original size Blumenbach thinks, that the dilatation and con- ti-action neither depend on muscularity, nor vascularity, but on a " vita propria;" to which term it is not easy to attach a precise meaning. Analogy, and the cir- cmnstances which affect the pupU, must inchne us to the opinion, that the iris is muscular; after death it, like all the muscles of the body, is in a state of relax- ation, the pupU is consequently dilated; and when, from other causes, muscular action is suspended, or ^veakened, we find the state of the iris to correspond. Under the choroid coat, is the third tunic, which is called the retina, it embraces, as it were, the vitreous humour. To say, that the retina is the expansion of the optic nei-ve, is not anatomically correct; for minute researches have shown, that the nervous pulp is situated between two timics; the external one, named, tunica Jacobi, in honour of the discoverer; the internal, the timica vasculosa; there132 are th6n, other parts composing- the retiua, besides the j)ulpy expansion of the nerve. The tunica sclerotica, the tunica choroides, and the retina, are the three perfect coats of the eye; The sclerotica is considered by some writers, to be a continuation of the dura mater, a thick membrane which lies immediately under the skull; and the cho- roides, a continuation of the pia mater, a fine thin tnembrane, which adheres closely to the brain. Galen, and all the old Anatomists, believed that the tunica sclerotica was a continuation of the dura mater; but most modern Anatomists do not think so ; nor do they believe that the tunica choroides is the product of the pia mater. The sclerotic coat is very much thicker and stronger than the dura mater, and there is nothing but the extreme vasculai-ity of the two membranes, that can identily the tunica choroides with the pia mater. The humours of the eye are three, viz.—the aqueous, the crystalline, and the vitreous^ The aqueous humour occupies the chambers of the eye; its source is the vessels of the iris. The clu-ystaUine lens, although commonly called a humoui-, is a solid double convex substance. Its anteiior surface, however, is more flattened than its posterior, which is received into a depression of the vitreous humour. The lens is confined in its situation133 by a capsule, which is most probably derived from that of the vitreous hiunoui'. The thii-d humour of the eye, is the vitreoils, which forms the principal bulk of the globe; its con- sistence is gelatinous, from its being made up of cells and water, which are surrounded by a capsule, named, the tunica hyaloidea, vel aranea. At the edge of the crystalline lens, this tunic is said to divide into two laminae; one lamina gives an anterior covering to the lens ; the other passes behind it. By this separation of the membrane, a canal is formed, called the Petitian canal, which may be inflated by meatis of a blow-pipe. These are the principal facts jconnected with the coats and humours of the eye. The arteries of the appendages of this organ are the internal angular, or nasal; the rami lachrymales; and muscular branches; those of the tunics, are the arteria centralis retinae, and the ciliary branches. The arteries terminate in veins, and some of them in exhalent orifices. The nerves are, the motor oculi; the nervus patheticus; the opthalmic branch of the nervils trigeminus; and the optic, which expands into the retina.134 All the nerves, with the exception of the optic, are nerves of motion and feeling; the optic is the nerve of sense. It arises from a prominence in the ventiicle of the brain, called, the thalamus nervi optici, forms a long medullaiy tract, and enters the orbit through the foramen opticum. There is a diffe- rence of opinion amongst Anatomists, as to whether the optic nerve passes to the eye on the same side as its origin; whether the nerves decussate, or cross, and pass to the opposite sides; or whether there is an intermixture of fibres. Dr. Woolaston has recently published an interesting Paper on the subject, in which he states that there is a semi-decussa tion of the nerves; he came to this conclusion from reasoning on certain oculai* phenomena which occurred in his own person. Before the student can understand the mecha- nism, and phenomena of vision, he must acquire a knowledge of the leading laws in optics; and above all, he must inform himself on the changes in the direction of the rays of light produced by their passing through different media. Every one knows, that if a beam of light ti-a- verses a vacuum, the coui-se of the rays which consti- tute that beam is not changed; nor is it, if they pass through a medium of uniform density; but if, in their passage, they meet a body, the rays are either absorbed, reflected, or refracted; absorbed, if the135 body be opaque; reflected, if it has a polished surface; and refracted, if the body is bansparent, and pos- sesses a different degree of density to that through Avhich they had previously passed. In the eye, we have more especially to do with the laws of refraction, and the following most appertain to our present enquiry. When rays of light go fi-om a rarer to a denser medium (as from air to water), they are refracted to the perpendicular line, and e contrario. When they go from the perpendicular, the rays are said to diverge; when to the perpendicular, to con- verge ; and the point, where the converging rays meet, is named, the focus. These are the principal laws connected with the function of the eye, which is con- stituted of parts capable of refi-acting the luminous rays, and of bringing them to converge at the retina; they there impinge, and produce an impression, which is transmitted by the optic nerve to the brain. For accurate vision, it is necessary that the rays do not meet before they reach the retina, and that they do not go beyond that point; thus, the eye must have a power of adapting itself to the circumstances of the nearness and distance of objects. We believe, as we have before observed, that this power resides, in part, in the lateral pressure of muscles, either lengthening the axis of the eye, or producing a greater convexity of the cornea; and, in part, to the action of the iris on the aperture of the pupil; but these powers, when conjoined, are not sufficient to overcome the conse-13G quences of certain defects in the conformation of this organ. Some people are short-sighted; this arises from ihe cornea, or ciystalline lens being too convex, which circumstance will have the effect of collecting the rays of light to a point, before they aiTive at the retina. Others again, particularly aged persons, are long- sighted; this resiUts from a too great flatness of the eye, occasioned by au absorption of a part of the hwnours; in which case, the rays do not converge at the retina. It is easy to prescribe the means of reme- dying these defects when the causes are known ; in the former case, we wish to give a greater divergency to the rays, which is done by a concave glass; and a greater convergency, which is required in the latter case, is produced by a convex one: thus, a knowledge of the causes of short and long-sightedness, and an acquaintance with the effects of concave and convex lenses, lead us to the adai>tation of remedies proper for each of these cases. It will be evident, from the sketch which we have ^iven of the Physiology of the eye, that every thing ^hich obstructs the entiy of the rays of light must interfere, more or less, with the fiinction of this orffan The cornea transpai-ens may become opaque from acute opthalmia, by which a dense lymph is often exti-avasated on its smiace, or between its lamina; or fi-om a cicati ix, left by an ulcer, or wound ; or fi-om staphyloma. By these causes, tlie rays of hgbt .vUl be pitially, or wholly prevented from entermg the137 eye. Tlie coraea may be in a natural and healthy condition, and capable of transmitting the rays; but, from hypopium, or an accumulation of coagulated lymph, in the aqueous humour, in consequence of an acute inflammation of the iris, the rays will not be able to go beyond the cornea. The cornea, and aqueous humour may be natm-al, but the pupil may be obliterated; in which case, the light would not pass beyond the anterior chamber. The pupil may exist; but there may be a deposition of lymph behind the capsule of the lens, or an opacity of the lens itself, constituting cataract. The crystalline lens may pre- serve its transparency; but the retina, or optic nerve, may, from pressure on the nerve, or disease of the brain, lose its sensibility, and amaurosis be the event; hence, tbe causes of bluidess are various; but, fortu- nately, from the improved state of the opthalmic art, we can now remove many of the affections of the eye, which were foi-merly classed amongst incurable diseases. Opacity of the cornea, from extravasated lymph, is to be treated on the principles of promoting absoi-ption. Opacity, from the cicatiization of an ulcer, or wound, will often continue for life. Opacity from staphyloma is incurable. An accumulation of lymph in the aqueous humour is to be removed by exciting the action of the absorbents after the inflam- mation of the iris has been subdued. An obliteration of the pupil is to be remedied by the formation of an138 artificial one, by the melhod of Cheselden, Scarpa, Gibson, Adams, or Ware. Opacity of the lens, from effused lymph behind the capsule, must be treated by introducing a needle, and puncturing the capsule, so as to allo^v the aqueous humour to have access to the lymph, by which it will be dissolved, and subsequently absorbed. The aqueous humour has a powerful solvent property; on a knowledge of which is founded the treatment of soft and milky cataract, and the late method recommended by Sir WiUiam Adams, of treating hard cataracts, viz.-by cutting the lens into small portions, and placing them in the anterior chamljer of the eye. Analysis teaches us nothing on what the solvent property of the aqueous humoiu- depends; for the most active ingredient which it contains, is muriate of soda; but that it is endued with this power m an extraorcUnaiy degree, is proved by a cii-cumstance ^vhich occun-ed to Mr. Cline, seni-. He was operating for cataract, a spasm seized the eye after the needle was introduced, and a portion of it snapped off. Bad consequences were apprehended; but, to the great gratification and astonishment of the Sui-geon, the fragment of the needle was dissolved, and aftemards absorbed. This interesting fact is mentioned by Sill Astley Cooper in his Anatomical Lectures. Besides Sir Williaan Adams' operation, which is not, I believe, very extensively practised in hai-d139 cataracts, there ai-e two other methods, vi..-depres- sion, audexta-action; but to the latter, most Surgeons give the prefereuce. With respect to gutta serena, or amaurosis, we may prouomice the disease, in many cases, to he mcu- rable; the seat of the cause being beyond the scope of investigation; but there are some cases, as those de- pendent on plethora; and paralysis, that occasiona^^ly admit of cure. The celebrated Bax-on Larrey, the Surffeon-in-Chief of the French army, recommends the use of the moxa, as a remedy capable of producing cood effects. In his " Surgical Memoirs^ he relates cases to prove it. The subject of one, was the son of an English corporal, where the blhidness had suddenly supervened, after he had travelled, bare-foot, from Conmna to Valladolid, in a severe winter. No doubt was entertained of tbe existence of amaurosis, yet the irides retained their sensibility. The moxa was applied over the course of the facial nerve, behind the ano-le of the jaw, and camphor liniment applied to the" head. At the second application of the moxa, the child perceived light; at the fourth, he distinguished ohjects, and coloiu-s; and at the seventh, the functions of vision were completely restored. The treatment of amaurosis must be regulated by the cause of the disease, so far as we know, or suspect it. It it be local plethora, which, according to Mr. Stevenson, and other writers, is very generally concerned in the production of amaurosis, the moxa, as a counter.140 irritant, may do good •, but more reliance may, in most cases, be placed in local blood-letting, jand the subsequent application of blisters. The second of the five senses, is die sei;ise of healing; the organ is the Ear, which is divided into external, and internal parts. Heai-ing is a sense of great importaace, as it warns us of the approach of dsinger, and enables us to communicate with each other; but still it is less important than that of sight. The external ear is Qomp,osed of elastic caj-tilages, and the meatus auditorius externus, which is a .canal, partly cartilaginous, and partly bony; the cartilages are covered with common integument, and the canal is lined with the same structure, which terminates in a cul de sac, at the membrana tympani, and under wllich aj-e the ceruminous glands, or the small bodies which secrete the wax of the ear. The external ear has scarcely any motion in the human subject; but in animals, it is extensively mobile. To the emuiences, and depressions, formed by the external cartilages, different names are given, as helix; antiheiix; ti-agus; antitragus; fossa innominata; scapha; and concha; by these, the sound is collected, and transmitted to the membrajia tympani, which is the septum between the external and internal parts of the auditoiy appa- ratus. The membrana tympani is situated at the bot- tom of the meatus auditorius, which in tlic foetus is a mere bony ring, bat in the adult a spiral canal; theHI mcmbrauc is ovaj iu figure, and objique in it§ direp- tiqn, in order to preveflt tjie reflection of sound. By some Auatomists, it is sm>p.osed to be muscular; Sir Everai-d Home is of this opinion, and tbinks tbat the fibres run from the cii-cumference tp th,e centi'e, wherp they are attached to the malleus, or ^rst pf the cl^ain of bones, and that tlie use of this structure is to ens^ble the membrane to vary its degree of tension, to receive quickly the vibrations conveyed Jo it by the sonorous rays, and thereby to give us more accurate perceptions of sound. Sii- Everard jnay be rigbt, bi^t there i§ another circumstance \yhich can vary the degr,e£ gf pension of the membra^a tympani sufficiently for these purposes, viz.—the small muscles \ytdch *ct on tbe bones in the cavity of the tympanum; and as tbe first of tliese (the malleus) is aUached to the mepibrane of the drum, and the last (the stripes) to the membrane of the foramen ovale; the movement of the bones mu§t influence the state of both these membranes. Analogy is in favoiu- of Sii- Everard Home's opi- nion, as muscular fibres exist in the elephant, and some other animals; but Physiology does not seem peremptorily to require them in the human car. The membrana tympani, we have said, separates the external from the internal parts of the ear, and naturally the separation is complete. Cheseldon says^ however, that the membrane does not entirely close the passage; but has, on one sid<^, a small apertui-e.142 covered with a valve; but this is not generally admitted. Although an aperture is not natural, an unentire state is not incompatible with the function of the membrana tympani; provided there be sufficient of it left to retain the chain of bones in their situa- tion ; but if these be displaced, deafness follows ; because the vibration cannot be continued. Beliind the membrana tympani is a cavity, called, the drum of the ear; across which, from the posterior surface of the membrane just mentioned to the mem- brane of the fenestra ovalis, is extended a chain of small bones, named, malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and stapes; with these, smaU muscles are comiected, by whose action the bones are moved, and the mem- branes, with which they are in contact, rendered tense, or lax M.Majendie considers these muscles as the instruments which tighten and relax the membrana tympani; but in a Paper, published in the <^ Jou.'nal i PMjsiologie Experimcntaler on this subject he shows, that muscular conti-action may be replaced by elasticity. He found, on examining the orga^zatiou of the eaa-, from the monkey downwards, that the muscles disappear, and are substituted by n.egul^ spherical bodies, of which one is comparatively lar e, belonging to the malleus, and the other much smaller, elected with the stapes. These bodies, Majendie has denominated, from theii-properties ->^'P^:^^ tnues r they are considered as acting by elasticity in keeping the membrane of the tympanum, and that the fenestra ovalis, in a state of tension.143 In the tvinpamini, there are four openings; one leads to the throat, and is called the Eustachian tube; another communicates with the mastoid cells ; a third, the fenestra ovalis, leads to the vestibule; and a fourth, the fenestra rotunda, opens into the cochlea of the labyi-inth. There is no aperture of communi- cation between the tympanum and the semi-cii-cular canals; but between them and the vestibule, openings exist. Besides the bones, muscles, and foramina, a nerve is seen, called, the chorda lympani, and there are two or more ii-regular elevations. The next part of the internal ear is the labyrinth ; which is divided into vestibule, cochlea, and semi- circular canals. These windings, and sinuosities, are filled with water, and on their parietes, is spread the pulp of the auditory nerve. This is the ai-rangement of the parts which enter into the composition of the ear ; but to understand the Physiology of this organ, the student must have a general knowledge of the principles of Acoustics. Sound is an effect produced by the concussion of elastic bodies; the common medium of it is air^ but there are two other media of conveyance, viz.— solid bodies, and water. In the ear, we have an example of each of them; thus, air conveys the sono- rous rays to the membrana tympani; the chain of bones carries them across the cavity of the driun; and144 water conducts tbem to the pulpy expansion of tlic- auditory nerve. Sound, like light, mzty be collected to a point, and thus its audibility is increased; on this principle, whis- pering galleries are eoiistructed; and this property of sotind suggested the invention of the " stethoscope " of Monsieur Laeiuiee^ an instrument employed for exploring the nature of thoracic diseases, and Avliich has recently been proposed by Lisfranc, as a useful method of distinguishing the seats of fractures. We shall allude to this instrument in a futui-e part of the voiluine. Sound like light, too^ inay be reflected • of which an echo is an illustration. The above cii-cum- stances connected with sound, viz.—its media of con- veyance; its concenti-ation; and its capability of reflection, are all, more or less, concerned in the Physiology of the ear. The trumpet-like opening of the auricle, is well calculated to receive the sonorous rays; and by its irregularities, they are directed on the principle of reflection, to the meatus auditorius externus, by which they are amassed into a naiTOW compass, and there- fore, strike with force on th6 membrana tympani, which they set in motion. But to produce the neces- sary oscillation of this membrane, there must be a cun-eut of aii- behind, as well as before it; and this is145 aamitted by the Eustachian tube. Tlie vibratory Hiovemeiit of the membraua tympani is imparted to the malleus, which is in contact with it; the malleus conununicates it to the incus; the incus to the os orbicnlare, and stapes; and the stapes to tlie mem- brane which covers the fenestra ovalis. It is then sent by means of the water in the labyrinth, to the expanded auditory nerve, and the impression made, is, by it, transmitted to the brain. IVIr. Swan, of Lincoln, has communicated to the Medico-Chii-urgical Societj^ of London, a very inter- esting Paper, " On the PJiysiologij of the Ear;' Avhich has been published in Part IL of the Eleventh Volume of their Transactions. Mr. Swan had ad- vanced in a former Paper, that sounds can be conveyed to the organs of hearing, by impressions made upon the facial nerves, and that people born deaf and dumb, from imperfect mechanism of the ear, without any defect in the auditory nerves, might be made to hear through the medium of the facial nerves. In the Paper now published, he mentions the case of a woman, who was born with the meati externi imperforate. She did not begin to talk intelligibly till she was seven years old, and did not talk tolerably well till she was about twelve. She can hear perfectly well, when a person addresses her at the distance of six or seven yai-ds; but not nearly so well, when the person speak- ing is behind her. When a linen-cloth, and a piece of flannel, were put over her face, she heard distinctly; u146 but When a large woollen-cloth was put over these, she coukl not hear any of the same questions uttered in the same tone. On repeating the same experiment, it was found that she heard more faintly, accordmg to the extent of the covering put on her face. The same was the case with tunes played on the piano-forte. When the face v.as covered, the sounds were famter; hut when she placed her hand over the piano she heard much better, but not so well, ^vhen a silk hand- kerchief was tied tight round her arm. Mr Swan thinks, that in instructing the deaf and dumb, the attention is too exclusively devoted to^^^^^^^ and that the faculty of hearing, m dumb people ^Je the auditory nerves are perfect, might be much C ved, if tbe whole, or the greatest part o their Ztion were directed to the proper exercise of these nerves. As we find that the seusibilitj of the nei-ves con- J • moduction of the senses, is mereased by "rer US t'L -lonaMe ^ suppose, that in d„,nh '' ' tte fecial nerves wonld have „„,-e power of were properly exercised. ' The remarks of Mr. Swan are certainly deserving f those who devote their attention to the the attention otiose .lode ^^^^ ^^^^^ instiuction of the Deal ana developed minute dissection in these cases, has ne^el 1147 any unnatural appearance in the structure of the audi- tory nerves. There are no diseases more obscure tlian those of the internal ear; this is owing to their being beyond the scope of inspection; but many affections of the external eai* are curable. The causes which occasion partial, or complete deafiiess, may be of two kinds: those arising fi'om original organic, or functional defect; and those aiising from neglect, accident, and disease. Deafness, from diseases of the external ear, will, in a general way, admit of relief, if not of entii'e removal; but when the cause is seated in the internal ear, the disease is less seldom cm-ed. It is desirable to have the means of determining the seat of disease in cases of deafriess. It may be in the external eai*, that is, without the mem- brana tympani; it may be in the internal ear, or within the membrana tympani; or it may be occa- sioned by an obstruction in the Eustachian tube. In the first case, the person must, generally speaking, be insensible to impressions conveyed through the air; but Mr. Cooper, in his " Surgical Dictionary," relates the case of a boy, where no vestiges of the meati auditorii could be seen, and where the natm-al situations of these openings were completely covered with the common integuments; yet, the child coidd148 hear a great deal, though the sense was certainly dull and impei'fect. Such a case, however, if the internal ear be sound, and perfectly formed, is not insensible to imin-essious conveyed through solid bodies, held between the teeth; even this was not necessaiy in Mr. Swan's patient. I read not long since, an account of a merchant of Cleves, who became almost totally deaf; one day he hap- pened to be sitting near a harpsichord, while some one was playing, and having a tobacco-pipe in his mouth, the bowl of which rested accidentally against the body of the instrument, he was agreeably and unexpectedly surprized to hear all the notes in the most distinct manner. By reflection and practice, he made a valu- able use of this discovery, for he soon learned, by means of hai'd wood, one end of which he placed against his teeth, to keep up a conversation, and to be able to understand the softest whisper. His son made this the subject of his Inaugural Dissertation, which was published in 1754. Here, of course, the internal ear, aaid Eustachian tube, were perfect, and the disease was seated in the external ear. AVe learn from this case, the means of determining where the defect lies; and in deafness from a .dubious cause, the patient should be directed to cniploy it. When a solid snbstantc is applied to the149 the sound is conveyed to the tynipamim, by the Eus- taehiau tube, which opens bcliiud the soft pahite; but still that sound can only be conveyed when the sub- stance is put in contact with the teeth, which ai'e g-ood conductors. This is proved by the experiment of M. Itai-d, a celebrated French Aurist, which is, that when we apply a watch to the teeth, the ticking can be distinctly heard; but when the watch is put on the back pai-t of the tongue, remote from the teeth, and the mouth closed, the sound cannot be heard at all; notwithstanding, in this case, the watch is placed much nearer the orifice of the Eustachian tube. We may finally state, with respect to the Patho- logy of the ear, that the difficulty of cure is in propor- tion to the depth of the malady; if supei-ficial, it may be relieved, or removed; if deep, the chances are very much against our being able to do any good by cither medical or siu'gical means. For the ti-eatmeut of diseases of the ear, the student should consult the works of Mr. Saimders, and JMr. Curtis, on the affections of this organ. The third of the five senses, is the sense of smell; the acuteness of which is in proportion to the deve- lopement of the nostiils. The basis of the soft parts of the Nose, is bone, and cartilage, which are covered, and lined, by common skin; but internally, the sliin is more vascular, and called, the pituitaiy150 membrane. The nose is divided into two nostrils, by the septum narium; and in each nostril aie elevations, formed by the spongy, or turbinated bones, which afford an extensive surface for the expansion of the lining membrane. This membrane is supplied with the first paii- of nerves, which take their origin from the anterior lobes of the brain. They are called the olfactory, and their numerous filaments are sent through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to be distributed to the pituitary membrane, which is the seat of the sense of smell, and the som-ce of the mucus of the nostrils. The Physiology of smell is more simple than that of seeing, and hearing. From certain bodies, are constantly escaping small particles, whose motion is influenced by the air. This, in passing through the nosti-ils to the lungs, applies the odorous effluvia to the pituitary membrane; and the impression thus niade, is transmitted by the olfactoiy nerves to the brain. This sense is an important one, and contributes much to the gratifications, and pleasures of life. The fourth of the senses, is the sense of taste, a faculty which resides in the papillae of the tongue. The Tongue is divided by Anatomists, into base,151 body, ami apex; the base is fixed to the os Iiyoides ; but the apex is moveable. The substance of this organ is muscular, and the covering of it is the continuation of the lining membrane of the mouth. On the surface of the tongue are seen numerous small eminences, which are called papillae; some of them are much larger than others. They are divided into tlu-ee classes; those near the base ai-e named, the pa- pillje capitatae; those in the centre, the papillae mediae; and those at the apex, the papillae minimae; they appear to be the terminations of the nerves; the first class excepted, vehich ai-e supposed to be merely mucous glands. In the tongue, there are three sets of nerves, viz.—the lingual, the glosso phaiyngeal, and the gustatory. The lingual is believed to be the nei-ve of motion; the glosso pharyngeal, the nerve of secretion; and the gustatory, the nerve of taste; there is, how- ever, a considerable intermixture between the sets. The arteries, veins, and nerves, of one side of the tongue, are separated from those of the other, by the longitudinal line, called, the Raphe linguae. The sense of taste resides in the papillae mediae, et minimae. How sapid bodies act on these eminences, is a question which Physiologists cannot satisfactorily answer. Some consider that their action is chemical; others think, that it is mechanical; but as it is neces- saiT to the perfection of this function, that the sub-irj2 stance to be tasted, be eitliev in a state of solution,, when taken into tlie mouth, or dissolved afterwards, by the saliva and mucus of this cavity, the process would ajjpear to be strictly chemical. The appearances of the tongue, fimiish us with important diagnostic, and prognostic signs; its dry- ness, and its coloiu-, aa-e circumstances which the Practitioner must attend to, in forming his judgment of disease. Dryness indicates fever; moistness, suc- ceeding to dryness, presages a favourable termination; dryness and blackness denote a putrid tendency; and gi-eat redness is often an attendant on visceral inflam- matory diseases, particularly on gastritis, enteritis, and hepatitis. In jaundice, and bilious fevers, the tongue is generalUy covered with a yellow, viscid mucus. The indications of disorder, furnished by the tongue, are less likely to mislead the Practitioner than those of the pulse; but no one set of symptoms ought to be regarded as sufficient to found an opinion upon. The tongue, the pulse, the state of the secretions generally, the colour of the skin, the attitude of the body, and the general aspect of the patient, must be examined, and attentively observed; for an opinion, supported by a solitary fact, may be erroneous; but it hai-dly can be so, when grounded on,a concatenation of circumstances agreeing in all their points. ^.j; The last of the five senses, is the sense of toufjh;153 a property residing in the Cutis Vera, which is abundautly supplied with blood-vessels, absorbents, and herves; the extiemities of the fingers and toes, however, have a more exquisite sense, than other parts. The cutis vera is one of the three tunics which cover the body. On the surface, is the dense inor- ganized cuticle ; and intervening, between it and the cutis,, is the rete mucosum. The integuments of the body are reflected inwards, so as to line certain passages, as the nosti-ils, mouth, oesophagus, ti-achea, m-ethra, vagina, and a part of the rectum. The cuticle and rete mucosum, are believed to be secretions of the cutis vera. This last is an exceedingly vascular membrane; it is also plentifully supplied with absor- bents ; as shown by quicksilver injections. The cutis is a very sensible structure; and but for the cuticle and rete mucosum, the impressions of tactile bodies, could scaixely be endured; this is proved by the acute pain experienced, when these external coverings are removed. I But the sense of touch, is not the only function of the cutis; it is also a secretive organ, and supposed by some Physiologists, to eflTect the same changes on the atmosphere, as the lungs; but there is a doubt about this point. The eminent Chemists, Allen and Pepys, made some experiments, with a view to deter- V154 mine it; but they found so many obstacles to the enquiry, as to be prevented from coming to any positive conclusion. It is, however, the source of the perspirable fluid, which is secreted by the cutaneous vessels. In addition to these functions, the skin is an extensive sympathizing organ, and often influences the state of the lungs, stomach, intestines, and kidnies. When the cutaneous secretion is checked by cold; the lungs, alimentary canal, and minaiy organs, fre- quently become disordered. Catarrh, and pneimionia, often arise from this cause. The bowel-complaint of the Spring and Autumn, are generally to be traced to suppressed perspiration, fi-om the frequent vicissitudes of the weather at these seasons of the year; and every bbdy knows how sparingly the urine is secreted when we perspii-e .freely, and vice versa. I am convinced, from observation, that the enteric aftections of the Spring and Autumn, are of an inflammatory chai-acter, and almost in every instance produced by the sudden application of cold to the skin. The effect of this is, to impel the blood from the surface; and from the in- timate sympathy between the chylo-poietic viscera and skin, it is not sui-prizing, that the former should be move liable to suffer, than other organs. In these complaints, when the inflammatory action is in a moderate degree, the alvine evacuations are mucous, and profuse; but when the inflammation runs high, the secretion is diminished, and costive- ncss prevails. That tlie suppression of the secretory155 fimction is caused by active inflammation, is verified by what we find after the inflammation is diminished by depletion, viz.—the bowels, which before resisted the operation of pm-gative medicines, soon begin to be acted upon; and the event is a copious exhalation fi'om their mucous surface. The nails and hairs are the appendices to the skin; and like the cuticle, ai'c inorganized, and insen- sible substances; the former are secreted by a glandiUar sti'uctures; the latter grow from roots or bulbs, situ- ated in the cellular membrane, under the skin. According to the experiments of Mr. Hatchctt, hair consists of gelatine, and coagulated albumen; besides which, it is said to contain oils, ii-on, oxide of manganese, lime, silica, and sulphiu-. We have now considered the five species of sen- sations, which convey information to the mind, viz.— seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and touching. The two first of these senses are produced by means of media, which modify the impressing agents; but for the three last, it is required, that the object be brought into contact with the organ to be impressed; thus the odorous particles must be applied to the pitu- itary membrane, in order to be smelt; saj)id bodies must come in contact with the tongue, in order to be tasted; and tactile bodies, with the skin, in order to be felt.156 We have examined all the organs neccssiary to the support of life; but as death is the certain conse- tjuence of life, the human species would soon bc-jome extinct; if there were not functions subservient to its continuance. There are few persons who attain the age of three score years and ten, because there are many causes which have a tendency to curtail the thread of human life. The desire of longevity (as Willich observes) seems to be inherent in all animated natui-e; and particularly in the human race. It is intimately cherished by us tlu-oughout the whole of our existence, and is frequently supported and sti-engthened, not only by justifiable means, but also by various species of collusion; but, in spite of the desire, how few there are who live to be old; partly from, causes of our own creation, partly from casualties, and pai-tly from diseases to which the different periods of life pecu- liarly predispose us. In infancy, the convulsions attendant on dentition, hydrocephalus, the hooping cough, the measles, scarlet fever, and small-pox, commit great havoc ; thus, it has been computed that one-half of the children born in London, die under the age of two years and three quarters; and in Man- chester, under five; but the mortality of the infantile period of life has been greatly diminished by the dis- covery of the immortal J cnner. In the middle stages of life, infiiimmatory dis-157 eases prevail, and desti-oy great numbers. In ad- vanced age, organic aflfections, and diseases of debi- lity. Thus, from the moment of our birth, we have to anticipate a series of bodily calamities, which threaten an abridgment of life; therefore few compa- ratively ai-rive even at the grand climacteric. The human species, tlien, would soon become extinct, if nature had not provided for its continuance. The Organs of Re-production in the Male Subject are the testes, and their connections, and the penis, and its connections. The testes, or glands, which secrete the semen are contained in a bag, caUed the scrotum. Each testis has two envelopes, a close, and reflected, and both are derived from the peritoneum. On laying open the loose tunic, we obsei-ve the gland and its epididymis ; the latter being obliquely placed on the outer, and back part, of the former. The testis is made up of arteries, veins, absorbents, nerves, the tubuli seminiferi, and the connecting me- dium of these parts; and the whole is encompassed by the tunica propria. Passing off from the testis is seen the spermatic cord, which is composed of the parts going to, and from the gland, and suiTounded by peritoneum, the same as the tunica vaginalis re- flexa, but here called the tunica vaginalis of the spermatic cord. Upon its outer surface are eel-158 lular membrane, and the fibres of the cremaster muscle. From the testis the cord ascends; passes through the external abdominal ring; traverses the inguinal canal, or that oblique space between the two rings; and enters the abdomen through the foramen, in the fascia transversalis. On arriving at this point, the different component parts of the cord are seen to separate ; the vas deferens descends to the neck of the bladder, and the ai-tery, veins, &c. pass upwaids. The excretory duct of each testis, is named the vas deferens, it descends to the vesicula seminalis, a con- voluted body lying at the under and lateral part of the urinary bladder ; and terminates with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, in the urethra, at a process of the lining membrane, called caput gallinaginis, vel veru- montanum. The vesiculae seniinales are the reservoirs of the semen ; but some Physiologists have assigned to them other purposes. The penis is composed of three bodies; the two corpora cavernosa above, and the corpus spongiosum below; in this last body is the ui-ethra, or outlet for the urine, and semen. The corpora cavernosa, and corpus spongiosum are-covered by a continuation of the common slun, which forms anteriorly a loose fold, called, the prae- putium. These parts ai'c plentifuUy suppHed with arteries, veins, absorbents, and nerves.159 Each corpus cavernosum arises from tlic ramus pubis, ascends, and meets the opposite body; the two bodies then unite, and pass to the glans penis, to which tlieir exti'emities are applied. By their junc- tion a groove is left above, for the arteria dorsalis, and vena magna ipsius penis ; and below, is another furrow for the corpus spongiosum. Between the two corpora caveniosa there is a partition, called the septum penis, but it is perforated, so tliat the cells in one corpus freely communicate with those of the other. The corpus spongiosum begins at the bulb of the ui-ethra, and terminates in the expansion called glans. The prominent ring at the commencement of the glans is named the corona glandis, and the conti-acted part behind is the cervix. About the corona and cervix there ai-e many small follicles, which secrete a sebaceous matter to defend the glans, and to facilitate the motion of the iJi'epuce backwards and forwards. The three corpora of the penis are cellular in struc- ture, as inflation proves, but the cells of the corpus spongiosum are more delicate than those of the cor- pora cavernosa. The Organs of Re-production in the Fe- male are divided into external and internal. The external are, the mons Veneris, labia, pu-160 dendum, clitoris, nymphie, orificium vagina, and ca- runculae myrtifornes. The internal are, the vagina, uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaria, and ligaments. The fallopian tubes, ovaria, and ligaments are the appendages to the womb. To the organs of re-production, we must add the mammae, which are composed of small glandular bodies, the lactiferous ducts, adeps, arteries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves. The function of these organs is to form the fluid for the nourishment of the offspring; which fluid, in the human subject, differs from that of the cow, in containing more saccharine matter, and less curd. It is not requisite for me to comment on the Ana- tomy of these parts; and the Anatomico-pathological views of most consequence will be found under the head, Relative Position. We have veiy Httle to say on the Physiology of the organs of re-production in the male, more than that the secretion which the testes fua-nish is the stimulus to impregnation. The womb, in the unimpregnated state, has only one function to perform, viz.-menstruation; the use161 of which is to render the ortran fit for the purposes of conception. The fluid Avhich is discharged at the menstrual periods is not blood, but a secretion froin the blood; it is incoagulable, therefore contains no fibrine. The period when this new function of the uterus begins, is very different in different climates. In hot countries it appears as early as the ninth or tenth year, but in very cold regions not until the nine- teenth or twentieth year. After once appearing, it recurs montUy, (in some constitutions oftener) to the age of 45 or 50, unless temporarily suspended by pregnancy, lactation, and disease. Of the changes which the uterus, and its appen- dages, undergo from impregnation, we have already given a full description in the section which treats " On the Phenomena of Life:' In the female, Ave find the ovum which contains the rudiments of tlie new animal, and the nidus for the developement of its different parts; but conception, from involving the nature of life, and the state of existence of the animal in ovo, is one of the most obscure and intricate sub- jects in Physiological science. If we trace propaga- tion from its most simple form, as in gemmiparous animals, to its most complex, as in vivipai-ous, we meet with phenomena as replete with mystery, as they are with interest. Finally, to complete the human body, all the organs, and parts, that we have mentioned, must be X162 connected; and the medium of connection is Cellu- lar Membrane. This structure may be divided into two kinds; reticuku- and adipose. The reticular is found in situ- ations where a considerable degi-ee of motion is neces- sary ; the adipose occupies parts where the motion is limited. The great distinction between the two is this: betwixt the cells of the former, there is a free communication, as observed in cedematous, and em- physematous swellings; but the cells of the latter do not at all communicate; each cell is a distinct glandu- lar part, and like to other secretuig organs, exceed- ingly vascular. Thus, we have the human body complete in all its parts. A mind provided with all the instruments which are wanted by man for his individual purposes, and for holding converse with the objects that ai-e around him. He has a superior animal organization, united to an intellectual endowment, which quaHfies him to exercise that authority delegated to him by his Maker, and to which every thing in natui-e is subser- vient. Man is at the head of all created beings; he is, as Bacon styles him, " the final cause of all things ; for if man were removed from the world, creation would appear to be without a purpose."ON RELATIVE POSITION; oil MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL VIEWS OF THE HUMAN BODY. After the general description of the human body, which has been given in stiict physiological order, it is proper to consider the grouping together of parts; and thus to describe their support and con- nections. This constitutes the study of Relative Posi- tion; a subject which has an influence on all the steps which are taken, in the planning and performance of the different operations of surgery. We have seen that there are different systems of parts in the human body; but to study them sepa- rately, is only admissible, as introductory to other im- portant points; afterwards, the student must observe the relations which they have to each other, and the manner in which they are linked together; for it is principally by observing them united, that he will gain the knowledge which can render him competent to practise his profession with success and safety.166 An acquaintance with tlic relative position of organs and parts, assists the Physician and Sui-geon, in forming theii' diagnosis of diseases, and suggests the remedies most likely to act upon them. Ignorance on this subject, on the part of the Surgeon, may be very serious in its consequences; for called upon, as he is, to use the Icnife, fatal mischief would be endan- gered by his not knowing the part on which he has to operate. It is not difficult to perform an operation on a subject in the dissecting-room; but we should con- sider under what different circumstances we act on the dead, to what we do on the living body. When an incision is made into a part deprived of life, no blood appears, and there is nothing to obscure the view, or embai-rass the operator; but when a wound is inflicted on living structure, blood streams out, and the incised soft parts are in part concealed. In the dead subject, the muscles are in a passive state; in the living, they retract on being irritated by the knife; and these ana- tomical differences create difficulties, which should be anticipated. But there ai-e moral circumstances, too, ^hich can produce embaiTassment, viz.—the cries of the patient, and the watchful and censorious eyes of by-standers; these will induce confusion, unless the Surgeon's whole feelings and mind ai-e concentrated in his work; a degree of abstraction which cannot always be commanded; but the confidence which Anatomy gives, and a sense of duty, which is para..167 mount to every other consideration, will, in time, perhaps, overcome all these difficulties. Anatomy contributes to inspire confidence; but it is practice, or experience only, that can enable a Sur- •geon to perfonn a capital operation with almost stoical iiidifierence. But neither Anatomy nor experience can, in all cases, divest the mind of a too anxious feeling. Haller (than whom, a better Anatomist and Physiologist never lived) expressly tells us, in his " Bibliotheca Cliirurgica^'' that he was never able to perform an operation on the living subject; although lie had given instructions in surgery, for seventeen years, and had frequently shown, on the dead body, the most difficult operations in sm-gery. It is said, that Cheseldeu, to the last, was gene- rally affected with diarrhoea, in contemplating a serious operation. At first, all men feel more or less anxiety, however gi'eat their anatomical knowledge may be; and often, this continues tlu'oughout their professional life. I shall here give what Richerand, a distinguished operative Surgeon of the French School says, on this subject, and as the j^assage comprehends what I wish to impress on the mind of the student, viz.—how confidence is most likely to be acquii-ed, I shall, with his words, conclude these introductory remarks. After speaking of the necessary qualifications of the Sur- geon, he continues " Deux choses contrihuent encore a \nspirer cette confiance necessaire au succes; d''abord168 la connoissance parfaite de la partie sur la quelle on optve, et de la maladie pour laquelle on itiatique /' operation, ^^jm' V liahilude de son execution sur le cadavre, lors qu'il s'at/it d''un cas oil Von se conduit d^apres des regies decrites. Cependant, si j'enjuge par ma propre experience, il est difficile qu^ a Id premiere operation, la vue, peutetre meme Todeur du sang, les oris du patient, la nouveaut^ du spec- tacle, ne vous causent tine emotion qui n^est pas sans quelque analogic avec celle qii' eprouve le guerrier par le tumulte d'mi combat, et Vaspect du carnage^'ON THE HEAD. The Head is divided into the cranium, and face. CRANIUM. In a foimer part of the vohime, mention is made of the bones of the skull, and the manner in which they are united, by means of sutures; but before the student can understand the attachments, and other circumstances, of the minute soft parts which are connected with the cranium and face, he must study well the elevations, depressions, foramina, and other remai-kable points in the bones of the head. The nnited bones present a front, a lateral, a posterior, an upper, and an under siuface. In the front view, the parts worthy of notice are, the prominences indicating the situation of the frontal sciences; the two orbits; the seven portions of bone which enter into the composition of each orbit; and especially the os unguis, on account of its connection with the lachrymal sac; the seat of the lachrymal gland in a depression behind the external angular pro- cess of the frontal bone; the fissure at the bottom of the orbit; the foramen opticum; the foramen supra- orbitarium ; and foramen infra-orbitarium.170 The bony parts of the nostrils are next to be observed, and the terminations of the frontal, sphce- noidal, and aethmoidal cells, the ductus ad nasum, and the opening of the anti-um reighmorianum. The bones of the mouth, &c. come next; the teeth must be studied ; the molar teeth, which communicate with the floor of the antrum looked for; as all these are prac- tical jjoints. In the side view, we oljserve a part of the os frontis; the lateral part of the os parietale; the os temporale; the zygomatic arch ; the styloid process; the entrance to the organ of hearing; the mastoid process ; and a part of the os occipitis. The situation of the anterior inferior angle of the temporal bone should be marked in its relative position to the tem- poral root of the zygoma, which is prominent, and can be felt through the soft parts which cover it; because the angle shows the seat of the dm*a mati'al artery. The posterior inferior angle must also be noticed, because it corresponds to the comer of the lateral sinus. In this view, in most crania, some irre- gular portions of bone are seen between the parietal, temporal, and occipital bones; they are called, ossa triquetra, and have been mistaken for depressed frag- ments; the student, therefore, should be aware of their situation, in order to avoid such a dangerous error. The posterior view is chiefly occupied by the os occipitis, of which the ridges and tuber are remarkable171 points; the latter indicates the place where the cere- brum ends, and the cerebeUum begins; also where the longitudinal sinus of the diu-a mater bifuscates, or divides into the two lateral sinuses. In the superior surface, we see a part of the os frontis; the parietal bones; and the sagittal suture, running in the same line as the longitudinal sinus. In the inferior surface, we remark the basis of the lower jaw; the palatum durum, and its foramina; the under part of the zygomatic processes; the cavities which receive the cordyles of the inferior maxilla; the depressions anterior to them, where the condyles lie in dislocation of this bone; the pterygoid processes of the sphcenoid bone; the mastoid, and styloid processes of the temporal bones; the cimeiform process of the OS occipitis; the condyloid process of the same bone; the foramen magnum for transmitting the spinal mar- row, and other parts; and behind this, are depressions, and ridges in the os occipitis, for the attachment of muscles. A great number of foramina, and pits, may be remaiked in this view ; the former, for the passage of blood-vessels, and nerves, to and from the brain; the latter, for lodging soft parts. The foramina to be seen in the inferior surface are, the foramina lacera orbitaiia superiora; foramina I\ 172 plerygoidea; foramina spinosa; foramina carotida; iter a palato ad aui-em; foramina lacera in basi crauii; ibramina stylo-mastoidea; foramina condyloidea ante- riora; foramina condyloidea posteriora; foramen mag- num ; and often the foramina mastoidea. The foramina to be seen in the internal basis are, the foramina ojjtica; foramina lacera orbitalia siipei'iora; foramina rotunda; foramina ovalia; fora- minaspinosa; foramina cai-otida; foramina auditiva; foramina lacera in basi cranii; foramina condyloidea anteriora; foramen mag'num; and the foramina mastoidea. Besides these foramina of the internal basis, we see cavities for the lobes of the cerebrum and cei"ebel- Jiim. The crista gaUi, and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ai*e seen on the fore part; behind these, llie sella turcica, and clinoid processes; the peti-ous portions of the temporal bones; the basilar process of the OS occipitis, hollowed out for the medulla oblon- gata of the brain; the fossae, for the lateral sinuses, must be particularly attended to; the deep depressions for the cerebellum; the crucial spine, &c. In the corresponding internal surfaces of the lateral and upper paxts of the cranium, there is nothing remark- able, save the sulci of the dura mati-al arteries, and the groove for the longitudinal sinus. The cranium is separated from the face by the173 transverse siitm-e. It is covered by the common inte- gument, wliich is here called, the scalp; but though common integument, as Pott observes, injuries done to it, by external violence, become of much more consequence than the same kind of ills can prove, when inflicted on the common integuments of the rest of the body; a circumstance arismg from its connec- tions -with important parts. Growing from the scalp, are, the capilli, or hafrs of the head, which, like the other hafrs of the body, ai-e inorganized sti'uctures, that is to say, not alive; but they proceed fi-om bulbs which possess life, and a power of secretion. Having reflected the scalp, we find on its porterior surface the tendon of the occipito frontalis muscle, that muscle which produces the transverse wrinkles of the forehead; and immediately covering the bones of the cranium is the membrane called perici-anium, but which in other situations is named periosteum. The pericranium firmly adheres to the cranium, by means of blood-vessels passing fi-om the one to the other, and by insinuating itself into the sutures, and there meeting with corresponding insinuations of the dura mater, or external membrane of the brain. These communications between the external and internal parts of the head, explain pathological facts of not unfrequent occurrence, viz.—how slight injuries, or erysipelas, of the scalp, and pericranium, terminate lutally, by producing inflammation of the brain. It is on this account, that we would prohibit the applica- tion of a blister to the scalp in phreuitis.174 On observing the manner in which the hones of the cranium ai-e protected from external injury, by soft parts, we find that in the frontal part of the head, above the superciliary ridges, there is nothing more than common integument, the tendon of the occipito frontalis muscle, and the pericranium On the sum- mit of the head, and on the upper and lateral parts of it, the protection is similar. At the lower and lateral parts we find the temporal muscles covered with a dense fascia; posteriorly, above the upper transverse ridge of the os occipitis, the soft parts are the same as on the forehead; but below the occipital ridge, are the thick muscles of the neck. Bearing in mind the relative thickness, and sti-ength of the bones of the cranium, and the means of protection furnished by the soft parts, inferences should be drawn as to the compai-ative liability of the different bones to suffer fracture from external force. Of all the bones of the cranium, the parietal are most fi-equently broken, because they are larger, weaker, and less protected, the temporal excepted, which, at their squamous portion, are somewhat thinner. The os frontis is quite as much exposed to accident; but it is stronger, and thicker, than the parietal. The force to fracture either of the temporal bones, must be of a pointed or penetrating kind; for the massy temporal muscle shields it. A very little of the occipital bone appears above the fleshy muscles attached to the upper transverse ridge; hence,175 a very little of the bone is exposed to violence. But the ossa parietalia are only defended by the scalp, tendon of the occipito frontalis, and pericranium; and, in comparison with the other bones (a portion of the temporal excepted) they are thinner, and therefore not capable of resisting any -violent injury. Whether the faculties of the mind reside in a part, or in the whole of the cerebral organ, is a question which the present state of Physiology cannot determine; but that they have their seat within the cranium, seems to be proved by the effects of injuries, and diseases of the brain. A man receives a blow on the head, the concussion of the brain susj)ends its functions; the man falls, and loses all sense, and voluntary power. The same happens in a fit of apo- plexy ; but here, the cause is compression, not concus- sion. The effects of a blow on the head are not always severe in proportion to the violence with which the blow was struck. A slight blow will sometimes lull; and other cases occur where a severe one has occa- sioned merely a temporary stun; the difference arises, in a general way, from the seat of Injury ; some parts of the head being better defended than others, as we have already shown. For a blow on the head to kill, it is not necessary that the brain should immediately suffer. A simple woimd of the scalp may termi- nate fatally, in the way we have mentioned; the chance of this fatal termination is considerably enhanced by mal-treatment of the woimd; thus, liga-176 tm-es should be avoided; and notwithstandiiif? lliat excellent Surgeon, Mr. Pott, assents to their einploy- itient, for uniting certain lacerated wounds of the scalp, most surgeons of the present day object to them; on account of their being both dangerous, and unneces- sary. Tliree years ago, I saw an extensive laceration of the integuments of the forehead; in which case, the Surgeon was induced to retain the edges of the wound in contact, by sutures. On the day after the accident, the patient complained of considerable pain in the head; the edges of the wound were swollen, and much inflamed; an evaporative lotion, and leeches were applied to the temples; but in spite of these means, the inflammation of the scalp extended. The Surgeon prudently withdrew the ligatures; after wliich, the inflammation subsided, the pain of the head left, and the patient's convalescence was progx-essive. When we ai-e called to a patient in an insensible state; and, on enquiry, find that he has received a violent blow on the head, we tiy to ascertain, by means of a probe (if there be an external wound) whether the bone has suffered. We succeed, perhaps, in finding a fissme; but we are not to conclude, that the fissure has caused the symptoms, if they be those of concussion only; but if we discover that a portion of bone has been depressed, and symptoms of com- pression exist, then it is quite fair to suppose that the depressed fragment of bone is the cause of those symptoms; even if the depressed portion be small.177 The symptoms of concussion, whicli aceompany a fis- sure, or fracture of Uie bead, are not caused by tbat fissure, or fracture; for, as Mr. Bell observes, " tbey originate fi-om tbe injury which the brain received at the same time that the bone was hurt;" the fi'acture and concussion are, therefore, conjoint effects. The soui-ces of symptoms, furnished by injiu-ies,, or violence applied to the cranium, are two, viz.— concussion, and compression. By concussion, is meant a shock given to the brain by a blow; by which the functions of that organ are temporarily sus- pended, or permanently destroyed. The symptoms whicb denote a slight degree of concussion, are giddi- ness, ti-emor, paleness, nausea, and momentaiy insen- sibility. When the concussion is violent, there is a complete loss of sensibility and voluntai-y power; the skin is pallid and cold, and there is sickness, and a feebleness of pulse; this state of depression neai-ly resembles a state of syncope; but if the patient sui-- vives, sensibility and volition, in some measiu-e, return, the countenance becomes natural, the skin assumes its ordinary warmth, and the pulse rises ; this is what is called a re-action ; we are now to apprehend inflam- mation, and oui- ti-eatment must' be directed to the prevention of it by the appropriate means. Should depletoiy measures not succeed in preventing it, the patient dies from inflammation of the brain, or from the symptoms of concussion giving place to those of178 compression, in consequence of a rupture of blood- vessels, effusion, or suppuration. The symptoms of compression are very similar to those of concussion, with these exceptions; the pupils of the eye are usually more affected, the pulse is slow and labom-ing-, and the breathing stertorous. Com- pression may arise from any cause which produces an enci'oachment on the brain, as depression of bone, extravasation of blood, effusion of lymph, or the formation of matter; but these causes do not necessa- rily give birth to symptoms of compression. The summaiy of the practice, in the different injuries of the head, is as follows :— In case of concussion, with, or without fracture, depletion, with the common auxiliary means, must be had recourse to, after the depressed state of the system, immediately consequent on the violence, has gone off. In case of compression, from simple fi-acture, with depression of bone, full bleeding must be em- ployed; should the symptoms not yield, the fragment must be raised. In case of compression, from compound fr acture, with depression of bone, we are advised immediately to trephine.179 In compression, from the rupture of a blood- vessel, the turgid state of the vessels of the brain, is to be relieved by the absti-action of blood; and we are then to trust to the action of the absorbents for tlie removal of the coagulum; and that from effusion is to be treated on the same principles as other hydropic affections. In case of compression, from the formation of matter, it is warrantable to operate; provided the seat of matter can positively be ascertained. In the present day, the trephine is not so often used as formally. Key's saw, from being a more manageable instrument, has nearly superseded its employment; but the following remarks wiU be useful, whether the one, or the other be prefen-ed. When it is determined upon to remove a portion of bone, the Sm-geon is to re-call to mind, what he knows of the relation which the internal parts of the head bear to those of the exterior; he will then remember the most objectionable places to the application of the trepan. There is no part of the cranium, where the trephine, or Key's saw, may not be applied; but still there are some pai-ts, where little, or no danger need be appre- hended; and others, where the operation must be conducted with the greatest care and caution. These places I shall enumerate. 1st.—In a line drawn from the nose, along the summit of the head, to the tuberosity of the os occi-180 pitis; because, just above the nose are the frontal sinuses, and the continued line indicates the course of the longitudinal sinus of the brain. 2d.—At the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, situated about two inches above the zygomatic arch; because the artery of the dura mater is here embedded in a deep sulcus in the bone, and a wound of it might occasion a serious hoemorrhage. 3d.—At the posterior inferior angle of the parie- tal bone, which is situated just above the root of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; because it is in the course of the lateral sinus. The accompanying sketch is intended to show the manner in which the dura mater envelopes the contents of the cranium ; and the relations of the sinuses of the brain to the exterior of the skull. The dura mater gives a. complete lining to the inner surface of the cranium, and. forms the processes represented by A, which is the falx, or septum cerebri. B—The left side of the tentorium; or that process wliich separates the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from the upper surface of the cerebellum, and leaves aji aperture of communication, C. D represents the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus, which, running along the summit of the brain, terminates by bifui-cating into the two lateral sinuses, of which the left is marked E • the right being concealed by the falx. F represents the inferior longitudinal sinus. G-The torcula llero- phili. H—The petrous sinus. 1—The cavernous sinus.181 The Wood brought to the brain, aiid its mem- branes, by the cai-otid, and vertebral arteries, is by these smusqs, or veins, returned again to the heart, The superior long-itxidi»al and lateral sinuses, are, however, the only vessels of importance in their rela- tion to external parts. By observing their course, the student will learn to appreciate the observations made on the most objectionable places to the application of the treplune. Besides the situations where the sinuses aa e concerned, we mentioned the anterior inferior angle of thB parietal bone; behind which, in the view annexed, is the left dura matral, or spinal artery. To impress on the memory of the student, the. relation of that vessel to the zygoma, the anterior inferior angle of the "bone has been retained.. The principal arteries of the scalp are, the occi- pital, and temporal, which come off from the external carotid. The occipital branch, after escaping from its connections with the deep parts, a little bplow the angle of the jaw, is^een just at the root of the mastoid process of the os temporale, where it forms a sulcus, or groove, which is to be observed in the macerated bone; it then ascends, and divides into numerous branches. The temporal artery is the continuation of the main trunk of the external carotid. At its origin, it is deep seated, and buried, as it were, in the substance182 of the parotid gland; but it soon becomes more super- ficial, and its course can be easily followed. This is the vessel in which arteriotomy is performed, and in executing this operation, Mr. Allan Bums recom- mends that the Surgeon should make firm pressure with the fore finger of the left hand, on the artery, a little higher than the point, where he intends to open it, and with the thumb of the same hand, a little lower. In this way the canal of the vessel is kept distended, by intercepting a quantity of blood. Then with a scalpel the surgeon is to make an incision about half an inch in length, down to the artery, which he next punctures longitudinally, with a lancet. Having removed the pressure made with the thumb, the blood flows. To check the flow, when sufficient has been obtained, a compress, retained by a proper bandage, will commonly be found sufficient; should, this not succeed, the vessel is to be divided across, this acts by enabling the exti-emities to draw themselves within the cellular membrane, which, by entangling the blood, facilitates the formation of a coagulum. The editor of the last edition of Burn's " Anatomy of the head and neck;' recommends tying the artery, in preference to eitlier of the above plans; for security, this practice may now and then be necessary, but it cannot be so in all cases. The temporal artery is occasionally affected with aneurism; a case of this kind was admitted in March last, under the care of Mr. Tyrrell, Sui-geon of St.183 Thomas's Hospital; the temporal artery was sup- posed to have supplied the sac, and therefore it was thought sufficient to tie the vessel. After doing this, it was discovered that the aneurismal tumour still pulsated; Mr. Tyn-ell was then obliged to open the sac, and apply four ligatures on the extremities of arteries, which terminated in it. This is not a case of common occui-reuce; it is seldom necessary to do more than to j^lace a ligatui-e above, and one below the sac. We cannot be much surprised that the pul- sation should have continued after the application of one ligatiu-e, as the tumour in an ordinai-y case would be likely to have been fed by anastomosing branches. But it was quite right, that Mr. Tyn-ell should first try the effect of one ligature. FACE. Anatomically speaking, the face is that part wliich is comprehended between the root of the nose, and the orbitar plates of the frontal bone above; the basis of the inferior jaw below; and the ears laterally; in which space we observe, the cheeks; the eyes; the nose; and the mouth. The cheeks are forined of bones, muscles, and fat; externally, they are covered by common integu- ment, and they are lined internally by the membrane of the mouth. The muscles of the face, (the masseters excepted),184 are connected with the apj^endages of the eyes, with the aliB of the nose, with tlie upper and lower lips, and the angles of the moiith. Under natural circum- stances, the inouth is in a transverse line, this is owing to the muscles on one side of the face being equally antagonized by those of the other; but if any thing happens to give greatei' poAver to those on one side, than to those on the other, the mouth is rendered awry, or oblique. Pain in the face, from an aifection of the facial nerve, or from the ii-ritation of a diseased tooth, will often cause a preteraatui-al iiTitabilitj' of the muscles on the affected side, and during the pa- roxysm of pain, a convulsive motion will be observed, which, from habit, will sometimes continue, after the pain has subsided. The deformity which frequently occurs m the mouth, after an attack of hemiplegia, is attributable to the muscles not being antagonized. A person receives an injury on the right side of the head, which tlirows him half paralytic; we find, in this case, a di-awing upwards of the left angle of the mouth; and the left arm and leg pai-alyzed. How are these symptoms to be explained ? The injm-y exists on the right side of the brain. The left corner of the mouth is drawn upwai-ds, because the muscles on the right side of the face, ar* palsied. The arm aiid leg, on the opposite side to the injury of the brain, are paralyzed, in consequence of the nervous fibres decussating each other in the medulla oblongata; thus, the fibres of the right side of th§185 brain go to the left of the body, and e contrario. The student will learn from these remai-ks, 1st.—^That the side on which the angle of the mouth is deformed, is not the diseased side; the muscles draw the comer upwards, from not being antagonized, or opposed; and 2dly.—That when there is a loss of muscular power, in the left arm and leg, the cause may be suspected to occupy the opposite side of the brain. There is no law in Pathology more general, than that the paralysis of the parts below the neck, is situated on the side opposite to that of disease in the brain; but still some exceptions to it have been men- tioned. M. Bayle, an eminent French Physician, has re-published the cases of Morgagni, and others, where pai-alysis occurred on the same side as the cerebral lesion. He attempts to explain these cases, by saying, that some fibres are found not to decussate, but to continue from the brain to the spinal marrow, or from the spinal maiTOw to the brain. This fact, so amply proved and demonsti-ated by Gall, offers, he thinks, the only rational solution which we yet possess of the exceptions to the general rule in question. Having carefully dissected the muscles, the stu- dent will observe their connections with other parts; particularly with the parotid duct and nerves. The parotid duct will be found, on carefully removing the fat, which is usually deposited between 2 A186 tlie masseter and buccinator muscles. It will be seen passing over the belly of the former muscle, and pene- ti-ating the latter, to enter the mouth, just opposite to the space between the second and thii-d raolares of the upper jaw. He may trace the duct to the parotid gland, an exensive body situated before the ear, and the principal salivary gland. Its connections with blood-vessels and nerves, are exceedingly important, and should be well studied. Another point of practice is the knowledge that one or more conglobate glands are usually found situated near the parotid, and that a disease of them may be confounded with a disease of the pai'otid itself. The duct of the parotid is formed by numerous twigs, which arise from the granules of the gland; it tends forwards from its origin, and its coui'se across the cheek is defined by a liaie drawn from the junction of the lobe and pinna of the ear, to a little above the angle of the mouth. The duet is embedded in fat, and absorbent glands; on removing which, the student will expose some small twigs of the portio dura nerve, and the transversalis faciei artery. It is of great conse- quence, that the coui'se of the parotid duct should be known ; because mischief will arise from an injury of it, either in the removal of tmnoui'S from the face, or in wounds from other causes. The mischief to be apprehended, is the formation of a salivary fistula. We have followed the parotid duct (called ductus187 Stenonis) across the body of the masseter muscle, a situation where it is much exposed to iujuiy. A woimd in the face may give rise to a sore which cannot be made to heal, if the ductus Stenonis be wounded; as there will be a continual discharge of saliva; and this disease will last for life, without some aid fi-om sm-gery. It does not follow as a matter of course, that a salivary fistula should succeed to an external wound of the duct, if the injury be, in the first place, properly treated; but if we allow the period to pass, when there is a chance of promoting an adhesion between the edges of the wound, the evil we have spoken of may be anticipated. When called to a person who has just received a cut in the face, by which the duct has been divided, the wound must be cleaned from coagula, and foreign substances; the edges approximated, and retained by means of a twisted suture, and adhesive plaster; and farther pressed on, and secured, by a linen compress, and roller. Pressure is absolutely necessary to prevent the oozing of the salivai-y secretion; without it, our aim would assuredly be frusti-ated. If, in spite of this careful treatment, a salivary fistula should form, something else must be done. We have said, that the external effusion of saliva is the. cause of the mischief which ensues, if adhesion be not accomplished; hence, reason suggests, that if we can divert the course of that fluid into the mouth, instead of allowing it to be discharged outwardly, the wound will as soon cica- trize, as in any other part of the body, and the disease188 be cured. On this suggestion, are founded many pro- posals; but the seton is oftener used than any other means. The student must consult Works on Surgery, for the pai-ticular treatment of this disease. We may here remark, with regard to wounds and ulcers of the parotid gland, that the oozing of saliva will prevent the healing process, unless fii-m and constant pressure is employed. In the dissection of the face, the student should pay pai-ticular attention to the nerves. Those of prac- tical importance are the supra-orbitar; the infra-or- bitar; the facial, already alluded to ; and the dental branches. The supra-orbitar is a branch of the first branch of the fifth pair, and called the ophthalmic. It emerges firom the foramen supra-orbitai-ium to be distributed to the skin and muscles of the forehead. The pain in the forehead, of which persons labouring under acute ophthalmia frequently complain, is prin- cipally owing to a sympathetic affection of this nerve. The infra-orbitar is a branch of the superior maxillary nerve. It is seen passing out at the fora- men infra-orbitarium, under the levaterlabii superioris, al^que nasi muscle; and after appeiu-ing, it divides into many branches upon the muscles and skm ol the cheek.180 This nerve is frequently aflfected with the painful disease called tic douloureux; but this affection may depend on a disease of one or more of the branches of the portio dura, or facial nerve. This nerve is seen within the cranium, in company with the portio mollis. It enters the bony cavity of the ear, through the foramen auditivum internum, and in the canal of Fallopius it receives the recurrent or superficial branch of the vidian. The ti-unk of the nerve leaves the ear through the foramen stylo-mastoi- deimi; and is seen on raismg the parotid gland. Soon after emerging from this hole, it divides into branches to the temple, face, tind throat; and the appearance thus produced, is named by anatomists, the pes anserinus. It is obvious, when we observe the distribution of this nerve, and that of the infra-orbitai-, that it is not easy to determine in which of the two sets of branches the morbid affection is seated. But the infra-orbitar branches are oftener foimd to be the seat of disease, than the facial. In a case of tic douloiu-eux of the fecial nerve, it would be difficult if not dangerous to attempt the division of its trunk, the only place indeed where it can be reached with safety, is at the anterior edge of the mastoid process of the temporal bone; but an incision down upon it, in this situation, would in some cases endanger a wound of the occipital artery.190 The fourth nerve of the face is the dental, the remains of which are seen coming through the foramen mentale, to spread upon the soft parts of the chin. Either of the four nerves mentioned may be affected with tic douloureux, or neuralgia, hence we speak of four species of this complaint, as occiming in the face. 1st.—The frontal neuralgia, which is seated in the supra-orbitar branches. 2d.—The sub-orbitar neuralgia, in the infra-orbitar. 3d —The facial neu- ralgia, in the facial. And 4th.—The maxillary neu- ralgia, when the dental branches are aiFected. For the cure of neuralgia, or tic douloiu-eux many remedies have been proposed, the cai-bonate of iron is recommended by Mr. Hutchinson, and its use has been highly extolled by some practitioners who have tried it; but there is nothing so much entitled to our confidence, as the division of the trunk of the affected nerve, even this has fii-equently failed to do more than to give temporary relief, because the divided extremities re-unite, and the nerve resumes its function. The re-union has been disputed by some Physiologists, but that it really happens, is fiilly proved by the results of Dr. Haighton's interesting experiments on the par vagum, an account of which may be seen in the Eighty-fifth Volume of the " Phi-191 losopMcal Transactions^ Mr. Allan Burns says, to prevent re-union, a portion of the trunk of the nerve must be cut out, and tliis he thinks, is the only way to insure success. The ai-teries of the face are not large; and there- fore not of much practical importance; but the student should know the coui-se of the principid branches. The common carotid artery ascends by the side of the trachea, accompanied by important parts; at another time to be introduced to the notice of the student. A little below a line, drawn transversely from the comer of the os hyoides, this main trunk divides into the external and internal carotid branches. The arte- teries of the face arise from the external carotid, and are the facial, or external maxillary; a branch of the temporal, named, the transversalis faciei; and some of the branches of the internal maxillary artery. The facial is the thii-d branch given off by the external carotid. It mounts over the submaxillai-y gland and jaw-bone; and just at the anterior edge of the masse- ter muscle, the pulsation of the vessel can be felt; in this situation, it could be compressed so as to com- mand hcemoiThage from either of its branches ; but in order to succeed effectually, both facial aiteries must be pressed on, as their branches freely communicate. After passing over the jaw, the vessel is found under the depressor anguli oris muscle, in its course to the angle of the mouth; and at the angle, it gives off the192 coronary artei*)' of the lips: the trunk then ascends by the side of the nose, and gradually expends itself on it, and the neighbouiing parts. The second artery of the face is the transversalis faciei, a branch of the temporal, which we have already alluded to, when speaking of the parotid duct. By the internal maxillaiy arterj', the face is sup- plied with a few small branches; thus, the inferior dental, after supplying the teeth, emerges by the men- tal hole to be distributed on the chin; and the trimk ends m the infra-orbitary branch, which ramifies on the cheek and side of the nose. Neither of the arteries of the face, however, are of mnch consequence in a surgical point of view, and their venae comites are still more unimportant. The student should examine the muscles which elevate the jaw, viz.—the temporal, and masseters. The depressors aj-e situated in the neck. The articu- lation of the lower jaw is such as to admit of move- ment in every direction. The condyloid processes occupy the glenoid cavities of the temporal bones; but, like the sterno-claviculai-, and one or two other joints of the body, there is an inter-articular cartilage, which divides the joint into two distinct cavities, each of which is lined by a synovial membrane. It is to' the presence of these cartilages, that the inferior.maxilla can be rotated, as in the act of grinding- the food. The ligaments of the lower jaw are the capsu- lar, external lateral, and internal lateral. The move- ments of which it is susceptible in the human body, are, downwai-ds, upwards, forwai-ds, backwai-ds, and laterally inwards, and outwards. When the lower jaw is closed, the glenoid cavities are observed to be accurately filled by the condyloid processes; when slightly depressed, the latter will be seen to quit the former in a partial manner, and to press against the small elevated points on the forepart of the cavities. If still more depressed, they will mount over the elevations alluded to, and slip under the zygomatic arches; this will illustrate how disloca- tion happens from yawning, or violent laughing, in which acts, the condyles are easily dislocated, when a spasmodic action seizes the muscles connected with the jaw. As organs connected with the face, we shall now describe the Relative of Anatomy the eyes, nose, and mouth. Eye.—In a former part of the volume, we men- tioned the structures which enter into the composition of the eye, and the changes which this organ under- goes by disease. In this place, we shall explain the surgical Anatomy of the appendages, particularly of the lachrymal apparatus. 2 E194 The principal appendages of the eye are situated superficially, they are the eye-brows, eye-lids, eye- lashes, the tunica conjunctiva, and the apparatus con- cerned in the secretion and discharge of the tears. Some of these parts are visible, and can be demon- strated without the aid of dissection; but there are others that cannot be. The luiife is required to display the lachrymal gland, and sac; and to show the ductus at nasum, we must break through bone; the com- mencement, course, and termination of the duct may, however, be shown without this ti-ouble. The reflection of the tunica conjunctiva is a point of Anatomy well deserving of attention. The student will find, by everting the upper and under eye-lids, that this membrane does not merely give a covering to the surface of the eye, but after running a little back- wards, it is reflected so as to line the lids; thus, it connects the globe of the eye with the lids, and pre- vents exti-aneous matters fi-om passing beyond a cer- tain point. It often happens, that the eye is much pained by the presence of dust, or gritty matter; but as on superficial examination, the soiu'ce of ii-ritation cannot be detected, the eye is pronounced inflamed, although the inflammation obstinately resists the com- mon treatment. I have seen very disti-essijig cases of this kiud, and one of them, which occurred when I was a pupil, made a strong impression on my mind. In tliis case, the cause was not suspected; the eye assumed the usual appearance of inflammation, aud.106 the usual remedies were employed; but the symptoms gi-ew daily more and more alarming; at length the coinea became opaque, and the eye would have been iiTetricvably lost, had not the upper lid been everted, an^ a speck of dust, which was sticking firmly, been removed. The eversion was not made fiom a suspi- cion that any extraneous matter would be discovered, but to ascertam whether the irritation did not proceed from an irregular granulated state of the timica con- junctiva; it being conjectured that this was probable, from the patient not complaining of pain when the eye-lids were closed. Nothing is more easy than to evert the eye-lid; it is to be done by means of a probe, which is pressed npon the upper surface of the lid, whilst the Surgeon, laying hold of the eye-lashes with his finger and thumb, draws them upwards. The next part of the appendages of practical importance, is the lachrymal apparatus, which we have described in a former part of the volume. The situa- tion of the sac, and duct must be well studied. The lachrymal sac, lodged on one half of the os unguis, is bounded above, by the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, and below, by the edge of the orbit. The lachrymal duct is a bony c^nal, formed by the OS unguis above, the superior maxillary bone on the outer side, and the inferior spongy bone on the196 inner; it is lined by a vascular and secreting mem- brane, and terminates under the inferior spongy bone. The introduction of a probe into it, to examine the nature of obstructions, is an operation which the student should practice. There is a complaint, the nature of which we should be at a loss to define, if we did not know the route which the teai-s take in escaping from the surface of the eye. The disease is called, " fistula lachry- malis," and is caused by an obsti-uction in the ductus ad nasum, either from viscid mucus, or a thickening of its lining membrane. The first symptom which denotes it, is a trickling of tears over the cheek. If the proper treatment be neglected in this stage, an inflammation will supei-vene, and the probability is, that matter will form, and a true fistula be established. There are, then, three stages; the first consists of simple obsti-uction; the second, of inflammation of the lining membrane of the sac, and duct; and the third, of suppui'ation, and ulceration: this last stage consti- tutes the true fistula lachrymaUs. The treatment depends on the stage of the disease; but a passage for the tears into the nose must eventually be made; and if the natural one cannot be restored, in consequence of its contracted state, we must make an opening into the nose thi-ough the os imguis, which, in neglected cases. Nature herself will often effect, by the ulce- rative process. For much valuable information on fistula lachrymalis, the reader may consult Pott's197 Treatise oa the subject, Scarpa's Work, and Ware, " On the Epiphora," &c. As the student will not be able properly to exa- mine the sti-uctures of the globe of the eye, in a sub- ject on the dissecting table, I have introduced remarks on the Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology, of this organ, in another part of the volume. Nose, and Nasal Cavities.—The external figure of the nose is pyramidal; its divisions are into radix, dorsum, alae, and apex. Internally, we find two cavities, called, the nosti-ils; one nostril is sepa- rated fi-om the other by the septum narium, and in each are observed eminences and depressions. The Anatomy and Physiology of this organ are described elsewhere; but we have to consider certain relations which it has to other parts. If a probe be passed along the floor of either nostril, the instrument will appear behind the soft palate; thus, a commimication exists between the nose, and the fauces. This knowledge involves important points of practice, viz.—the introduction of a tube into the trachea, for the purpose of inflating the lungs in cases of suspended animation, or into the oesophagus, for injecting fluids into the stomach, or drawing fluids from it, or into the Eustachian tube, to clear it from obstruction. To these points of practise, we shall recur presently. The probe (or whatever198 other instrument be passed along the floor of the nostril) will be thus situated with regard to surround- ing parts. Below are the palatine processes of the superior maxillary bones, and the ossa palati, by which the cavity of the nose is separated from that of the mouth; on the inner side is the septum naiium; on the outer side, are the processes of the bones which form the floor; above, is the projection of the inferior spongy bone, which presents to the probe its concave surface; the space thus bounded, is the inferior divi- sion of the nostril, and it is here (below the inferior spongy bone) that the ductus ad nasum terminates. Above the inferior spongy bone, we find another space which is the middle division of the nostril. It is bounded below, by the convex surface of the lower spongy bone; on the outer side, by the superior maxil- lary, and the os planum of the ethmoid bone ; on the inner side, by the septum; and above, by the superior spongy bone; this middle space is more contracted than the inferior. Into it open the frontal, the sphce- noidal, and some of the ethmoidal sinuses; also the maxillary sinus, called, the antrum Highmorianum. Above the superior spongy bone, is the upper division of the nostril; here we find the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone above; the superior spongy bone on the outer side; the septum on the inner; and below, there is a contmued fissui-e to the floor of the nostrU. Into this upper space open some of the ethmoidal cells.199 The projections formed by the ossa spongiosa and all the boundaries of the nostrils are lined by the vascular pituitary membrane, which insinuates itself into all tJie cavities which communicate with the nosti-ils; thus the Iming membrane of the frontal, sphenoidal, ethmoidal, and maxillary sinuses, and the ductus ad nasum, would seem to be productions of it. There are two circumstances connected with the pituitai-y membrane, to which it will be well to advert, viz—its disposition greater than that of other mucous membranes, to give growth to polypous tumours, and to bleed. There are thiee common kinds of polypi of the nose, viz.—the fleshy polypus, the malignant poly- pus, and a third kind, which is merely an elongation or prolapsus of the mucous membrane. The first and second ai-e morbid productions; the tliird is a mere relaxation of the membrane. Epistaxis, or hcemorrhage from the nose, is often a salutaay efibrt made by nature, to relieve an over- distended state of the vessels of the brain; in this case, when the bleeding is within moderate limits, it is clear that it is better to encom-age, than to suppress it.. But hcemorrhage from the nose, is sometimes conse- quent on general relaxation; when, of course, it is prudent to check it at once, and to prevent its recur- rence by improving the general health. With the mode of plugging the nostrils, (an operation requii'ed when common means fail,) every student is familiar. S.The principle is to close not only.,tl\e JU)tei;ioi;, but the jposterior opening. ■- To plug up the posterior narine aperture, a ,,,ptheter, bougie, or probe with a piece of string, at- tached to its extremity, must be passed along the floor of the nostril, until it appears in the fauces behind the curtain of the palate. The string is then to be laid hold of by means of along diessing forceps, and drawn out of the mouth. A dossil of lint or sponge is to be tied to it, and by withdi-awing the bougie from the nosti-il, the plug will be carried to the posterior aper- ture ; this will prevent the escape of blood backwai'ds. ,^The anterior opening is then to be well closed; and thus the blood, confined in the nostril between the two plugs, coagulates, and mechanically obstaructs the bleeding vessels. The pituitary membrane of the nose is also called Schneiderian membrane, because Schneider first ac- curately described it. The ancients believed that the membrane was perforated in different places, in order to give exit to the mucus of the nose, which they erroneously thought wss secreted by the glandulai'- like body which occupies the sella tm-cica of the ■ sphenoid bone, and in conformity to that supposition, they named it " Glandula Pituitaria," a name still ..retained; but the fact is, that there is no direct com- ^ munication by any such apertures, for the small body 'mentioned has nothing to^dOimtli;the; mucu^,,o^ .th^•201 nose, it beiu^ a secretion from the membrane itself. It is true that ou looking- up the nostrils of a basis cranii, which has been macerated and dried, we observe light through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; but it is to be remembered, that in the living subject, these small apertures are filled with fibrils of the olfactory nei-ve, and that the pituitarj' membrane is in direct contact with the inferior, and the dura mater, with the upper surface of the cribriform plate. The impression, however, of any volatile, or acrid essence, can easily be transmitted from the nose to the brain ; it being by far the most direct passage. This fact exposes the danger of introducing very acrid substances into the nostrils. In my manuscript notes, taken at Sir Astley Cooper's Anatomical Lec- tm-es, I find mention made of a case, where phrenitis and death were brought on in a gentleman, by the Surgeon making use of a highly stimulant application^ for the cure of o^cena. I cannot conclude the surgical Anatomy of the ' nose, without making a few additional observations on the antrum maxillare, vel Highmorianum, a large cavity in the upper jaw-bone. On examining the antrmn in the diy bone, we find that the palate plate of the OS maxillare superius forms its floor, and that the first, second, and third molar teeth usually pene- trate into the cavity; or that if they do not, a thin plate of bone only is intervening. The roof of the antrum is formed by the orbitar plate of the bone; the 2 C202 outer, or molar wall is thick; the intier, or nasal, is exceedingly thin. We have already said, that the antrum^ as well as the other sinuses of the hones of the head, is lined by a membrane similar to the pituitary; the office of which is to secrete a mucous" fluid to bedew their surfaces. Shotild this fluid be secreted in too gl-eat abundance, by the reflection of the membrane which covers the fi-outal, the sphenoidal, and the ethmoidal sinuses, or the nostrils, we can easily conceive how the superabundance is got rid off, as it can be evacuated by the nose; but when the secretion is in excess in the antrum, the mode of escape is not so easy- True it is, that a communication exists witfr the nose ; but the opening is smdl, and its mechanism such, as to offer a valvular obstruction. Mr. Burns says, " Urine might as readily regui-gitate from the bladder along the ureter, as fluid pass fi-om the antrum into the nosebut, perhaps, the analogy is here carried too far; yet it is certain, that when by disease, or accident, the membrane becomes swollen, or thickened, the obstruction is complete. When there is a preternatural accumulation of fluid, whether mucus, or pus, in this cavity, we are not to expect that that mucus, or pus, will find an exit by the nose; how then is it to be discharged? It is to be done by forming a new passage, by extract- ing one of the grinding teeth, and perforating from its socket into the antrum. After the matter is thus dis- charged, the disease of the membrane, if it be of a-2oa common kind, may be cuied by appropriate in- jections. On the Mouth.—In the anatomy of the mouth, I shall comprehend the space situated before, and tliat situated behind the curtain of the palate; ths former cavity is the mouth, commonly so called; the latter is usually named the fauces, or top of the throat. I shall call them anterior, and posterior cavities of the mouth, The boundai-ies of the anterior cavity when the jaw-bones are closed, are these; the roof is formed by the palatum durum; the floor by the tongue, and its connections; the anterior and lateral parts, by the alveolar processes, teeth, and gums; and the posterior part by the velum pendulum palati, vel palatum molle. All these parts (the alveolar processes and teeth excepted) are covered by the lining membrane of the mouth, which is similar in sti-uctm-e to the common integument; this is proved by its being occasionally alFected with the same specific eniptions as the skin, In order to gain a distinct view of the anterior cavity of the mouth, the student should make an in- cision from each angle of the lips, towards the articu- lations of the lower jaw, then by separating the two jaws; the tongue and its connections, and the 50ft palate will be fully exposed.204 . The tongue will be seen attached by its basis "lib' " the OS hyoides, and the apex free and moveable. The upper part or dorsum is covered over Avith the small eminences called papillae; the venter is partially con- fined by a doubling of the lining membrane, named the frasnum linguae, the relation of which, to the blood- vessels of the tongue should be obsei-ved, as they are in danger of being cut, in carelessly clipping it in tongue-tied children; near the fraenum will be found the terminations of the submaxillary and sublingual ducts, an obstniction of which is the cause of ranula. The anterior cavity of the mouth is separated •' from the posterior, by the velum pendulum palati. It is a muscular cui-tain consisting of two arches, with a thick pendulous body in the centre, named the uvula.' Laterally each arch has two pillars, between which is • the amygdala or tonsil gland, which secretes a mucus. Inflammation of the tonsil gland is named ct- nanche tonsillaris, but often the inflammatory action is extended to the neighboiuing parts. The termination^ of this disease may be either in resolution, suppin-ation, ■•■ or chronic enlargement. When the tonsil gland is severely inflamed, it swells so much as to render deglutition, and respii-a- * tion, difficult and painful; thus, a vigorous treatment is demanded for it; and should suppuration take place,206- Tve are not to rcla-x our exeitions; but the indication of treatment is changed. An abscess in the throat is dangerous, as it may spontaneously burst, the matter escape into the ti-achea, and the patient be suffocated. Many fotal cases of this accident are recorded; the progress of suppuration, therefore, must be watched, rf and as soon as matter forms, it must be discharged by puncture. But here, a word of caution is necessary, fi-om the proximity of the tonsil to the carotid artery, and I shall give it in the language of Mr. Burns, lie says, " When we have resolved on opening an abscess in the tonsil, some caution is required; it is to be remembered, that this gland, naturaUy, is very near to the carotid artery, and that by enlargement, it is brought still more closely in connection with it Hencev this vessel may, by passing the cutting instru- ment too deep, and inclining it too much towards the angle of the jaw, be injured. In this country, I have been informed, that a Surgeon, in opening a tonsillitio abscess, actually did plunge the knife into the cai-otid; I scarcely need add, that he lost his patient before he could suppress the bleeding. In Portal's Work, a case may also be read, where, in opening an abscess in the tonsil, with a 'pharync/otome; a sldlful Surgeon of Montpelier, had the misfortune to open a large artery, and to see his patient die from violent hcemor- rhage- which could not be checked." From the passage which Burns has quoted from Portal, and which he gives in French, but which I have taken the liberty of translating, we should infer that the carotid206 artery was wounded; but on referring to Portal's " Cours W Anatomie Medicale" I find the case related in a note Vol. HI. Page 183 ; (Burn's extract being taken from Vol. IV. Page 509.) The Pro- fessor's words are, " Un conseiller de la cour des aides fut atteint d''une violente esquinancie par Vin- flammation des amygdales; on crut reconnoitre uii abces dans Pune d^elles. Un chirurgien habile vou- lut d cet effet, Vouvrir avec le pharyngotome; mais it le dirigea si mal, ou Iart ere tonsillaire etoit si grosse, qa'ayant ete ouverte, il survint une hemorrhagie qui fut bientot mortelle:'' Thus it would appear, that we have not merely to apprehend the danger of open-l ing the carotid, but that the tonsil artery when wounded, may (if enlarged) give rise to fatal hoemor- rhage. In the generality of cases, however, we need have no dread of that extent of bleeding from the ton- sil arteries, which the actual cauteiy camiot suppress; but it is of vital importance that the operator should carefully avoid the carotid; this he may do by not dii'ccting the poiut of the bistouiy in the line of the angle of the jaw, but to pierce the tumour in front, and cai-ry the instrument directly backwai-ds. But in openiug a tonsillitic abscess, tx-ausfixing the blood-vessels is not the only gromid of feai-, another is suffocation from the discharge of its con- tents into the trachea; this has happened under the management of eminent Surgeons, who, for praise- worthy motives, have given publicity to the direful.207 catastrophe which they witnessed. The natural infe- rence, which we should be induced to draw is, that such an accident is occasionally unavoidable. Inflammation of the tonsil gland sometimes ter- minates in chronic enlargement; I have seen several cases of this soi't. I have also fi'equently seen too, an enlarged and indurated state of the gland to succeed to suppiu-ation. This disease often yields to blisters; but from the unpleasant, and even painful sensation which the patient complains of as attending it, a removal of the whole, or a part of the tumoiu", by caustic, the actual cautery, ligature, or excision, is sometimes obliged to be resorted to. With regard to the caustic, I believe it to be, in the majority of cases, totally inefficacious. The actual cautery, cai'efully conducted to the tumoiu-, promises success. Excision is often attended with the loss of so much blood as to excite alarm; I have been jjresent at two oj)erations by exci- sion ; in one, the bleeding was inconsiderable ; in the other, performed by Baron Larrey, the blood flowed so freely, that the operator was induced to apply the actual cautery, in order to resti-ain it. With respect to sti'angulating the tumom*, by passing a ligature about it, this is certainly the safest operation; and managed as Mr. Grainger, the father of the Lectm-er, of the Borough, has pointed out in his " Medical and Sur- gical RemarJis,'''' published in 1815, an operation not difficult to perform. After mentioning the different methods which have been proposed by Want, Chesel-208 den, Sharpe, Walker, CMieValief-; inxl't^ie a'pititxiif^of some Medical Men, that the disease is constitutional, and therefore, that the removal of the enlarged gland is doing- nothing, Mr. Grainger states the method of operating which he has adopted, and used in a great number of cases with invariable success. The instru- ment which he employs, is a double silver tube, about three or four inches long, according to the age of the patient from whose throat the tonsil is to be removed; through this, a well annealed silver wire is to be di-awn so as to leave a noose at one end, of such a size as to enable the Surgeon to pass it easily over the enlarged tonsil; and the wire is to be tightened daily, untQ tlie tumour falls off by strangulation. But it wonld appear by note D, in the Appendix to Mr. Pattison's Edition of Burns' Work, that there is no necessity for allowing the Avire to remain about the neck of the tumour, until the period of separation; and Mk is certainly tiaie, as a few hours must be sufficient to destroy its life. Mr. Pattison mentions Dr. Physick's plan of removing the tonsil, which is the same as Mr. Grainger's, with two exceptions, viz.—his using soft pure iron wire instead of silver, and removing the insti-ument twenty-four hom-s after its application. The mode of disengaging the Avire is simple, nothing more being necessary than to push a portion of it back through the canula, until the noose is so much enlarged as to slip over the tonsil. Having given as full a description of the surgical200 A,uatoiuy of the septum between the anterior and pos- jieriojq.cayity of the mouth, as is compatible with the £^design of this volume, I shall next describe the pos- •jterior cavity, or fauces, and the ducts, or passages J .opening .into, and proceeding from it. The parts which bound the space behind the velum pendulum palati, ai-e the following: on the fore part, above, we find the internal openings of the nosti-ils, and the irre- gulai-ities in them formed by the spongy bones; below, aie the velum pendulum palati, the aperture of com- munication between the anterior and posterior cavities, ^ and the base of the tongue; the view of these parts .can only be. obtained by separating the cervical ver- tebrsB from the back part of the throat; but this the student should defer doing imtil he has examined the other boundaries of the fauces. The posterior part is bomided by the bodies of the cervical vertebrae. The superior part by the basilar process of the os occipitis, and a part of the sphenoid bone. On each side, imme- diately behind the posterior openmgs of the nostrils, we observe the ti'umpet-like orifice of the Eustachian tube; below, the fauces terminate in the larynx before, and the pharynx behind; thus, the air, in entering the lungs, and the food, in its route to the stomach, must pass through this cavity. The space thus bounded has juiauy muscles connected with it, and it is lined by a continuation of the coimnon membrane of the mouth. In a former paa-t of the volume, I alluded to the manner in which the nostrils communicate with the 2d210 fauces, and of the praclicability of passiiiij a prop'.-rly curved bougie, or hollow flexible lube, into the laryux, and pharynx, from the nose; this knowledge is of gi'eater unportance, as it respects the former, than the latter operation, because in a case of sus- pended animation it supersedes the necessity of la- ryngotomy, or tracheotomy ; as a tube cannot be made to enter the larynx from the mouth, but may, under all circumstances, be introduced with facility from the mouth into the oesophagus. But to perform these operations, the Surgeon must be well acquainted with the mechanism of the Jjarts concerned in deglutition. After a poition of food has been masticated, it is formed into a bolus, and placed on the dorsum of the tongue; in swallowing that morsel, the tongue recedes in the mouth, the effect of which is to press the epig- lottis down upon the opening of the glottis, and thus to prevent the food from entering the trachea. The tongue then is the preventive agent, and of this we can readily convince ourselves, by cai-rying it back- wards, and forwards : in the former case, the epiglottis falls flat on the rima glottidis; and if we di-aw the tongue from the mouth, the epiglottis is raised, and the orifice of the glottis exposed. When it is our wish to pass a tube from the right nostril into the trachea to inflate tlie lungs, our first aim must be to open the larynx, this is done by pulling the tongue from the mouth; but if we want to pass a tube from the nose, or mouth, into the pharynx, we should push the tongue back to prevent the possibility of itsMl ciUeriug the Wyux: these observations must be reiuembered. ,lyn)iu! -.<'■ '■ !i To disteud the lungs from the uostiils, it is not absohitely necessary that the tube should be insinuated into the aperture of the lai-ynx. We may not always have a proper insti-ument at hand, and as what is to be done in suspended animation, must be done quickly, another method of operating must be employed. If we were to introduce a tube, or the nozzle of a pair of bellows into one of the nostrils, and blow; it is evi- dent that the air would not pass into the ti-achea, as the epiglottis closes the opening into it, and that some would escape through the mouth, some tlirough the nostril, and some pass into the stomach; to prevent these causes of failure, a finger must be put into the mouth, and the tongue drawn forwards, by this the epiglottis wiU be raised, and by approximating the lips around the finger, the aii- will be prevented from escaping per os; the opposite nostril to that occu- pied by the tube must be closed; and the fingers of an assistant must press back the thyroid cai-tilage upon the oesophagus, so that aii- may not pass into the stomach; there is now only one passage for the air, and that is into the lungs. Respiration is pai-tly a mechanical process; the parietes of the chest dUate, and the Imigs become distended by the pressure of the atmosphere; this is inspii-ation: the parietes then fall, and by pressing the limgs, the air is expelled; this is expiration. These operations by the natural powers,212 are suspended in the cases now under consideration; we are therefore to imitate them by artificial means. Having- distended the lungs in the way described, we imitate inspiration; we imitate expiration by com- pressing the chest, and allowing the nostrils and mouth to re-open. The distension and expulsion are thus alternated, until all hope is extinct, or resuscita- tion crowns our elforts with success. When the patient is in the passive state attendant on suspended animation, the above methods of inilating the lungs are adequate substitutes for laryngotomy, or trache- otomy; but when a foreign body is lodged in the larynx, or windpipe, an opening must be made for its extraction, or dischai-ge. A knowledge of the relative position of pai'ts shows the possibility of passing a probe, with a proper cui-vature, through the nosti-il into the Eus- tachian tube to clear it from obstructions; and it explains how an enlargement of the tonsil gland may so close the orifice of the tube, as to exclude air from the cavity of the tympanum, and thereby produce a partial or complete deafness.ON THE TRUNK. The Trunk is tliat part of the body which is situated between the head, and the lower part of the pelvis ; and to which the upper and lower extremities are attached. It consists of the spine; neck ; thorax; abdomen; and pelvis. l-.i .. ■ SPINE. Prior to the student attempting to display the inti-icate masses of muscles, which occupy the lateral parts of the vertebral column, he should have taken an opjiortunity of making himself perfectly acquainted with the processes of the vertebrae, with the natui'al cm-vatures of the spine, with the joints, with the ligaments, and with the inter-vertebral substance. Observation on the manner in which the bones are joined together, will impress him with an idea of the strong and beautiful structure of the spine, and how well the arrangement of its pai-ts is adapted to fulfil the functions of giving support to the head, and of keeping the body erect. The spine would assuredly sink under the weight which it has to sustain, if it were not for the advantages which its form and me- chanism afford. Observation on the mode of junction will explain too why the vcrtcbrte are seldom fractured.214 and still seldomer dislocated. In these accidents, the danger is in proportion to the concussion or compres- sion which the spinal maiTOW suffers. A case of fracture of the processus dentatus is mentioned in Sii- Astley Cooper's Work on Fractures and Dislocations. A woman, in the venereal ward of St. Thomas' Hospital, while sitting in bed, eating her dinner, was observed to fall suddenly forwai-ds, and, upon the patients running to her, she was found dead. On examination, it was discovered that the dentiform process had been broken off; and the head, in falling- forwai-ds, had forced the root of the process back upon the spinal marrow, wliich had occasioned her instant dissolution. A dislocation from ruptm-e of the transverse Hgament (if the dislocation were complete) would prove fatal in the same way. Luxation from any other cause is scarcely possible, but should it OCCIU-, the effects would be according to the seat of accident. If the second vertebra were dislocated from the third, death would almost immediately ensue, if the pressure on tlie spinal marrow were considerable, for the phi-enic nerves would become paralyzed, and respiration thereby stopt; but if below the fourth cer- vical vertebra, it is possible for the patient to survive; the parts below the injury would, however, lose sen- sation and voluntaiy motion. Fractures oi the vertebrae are, fortunately, very rare occuiTences; and, unfortunately, when exten- sive, they seldom admit of any relief.215 There is no part of Anatomy more neglected by students, than that of the muscles of the spine ; but as* tlie attention of the Profession has recently been much attracted to it by some improvements in the ti-eatment of ciu-vatures, foimded on anatomical and physiological knowledge, it will, we doubt not, now receive that share of investigation to which it is entitled. Incui-vations of the vertebral column have, at all times, much engaged the thoughts of practitioners, and numerous works have been written upon the subject; of late, they have multiplied fast upon us; but I agree with a modern reviewer, that our know- ledge of the causes, and remedies, has not increased in the same ratio as the authors; still we must admit, that there appears the dawn of probability, that the treatment of diseased conditions of the spine is more likely than ever, to be placed on a scientific basis, and for this we ai-e indebted to the judicious applica- tion of Anatomy and Physiology to the science of Pathology. On observing the attachments of the muscles of the spine, the student will learn, that their conjoint actions are, to maintain the equilibrium of the trunk, and thus perpendicularly to support the superincum- bent weight; and that when the muscles on one side act independently of those of the other, the flexure of the spine must be in a lateral direction. When the spinal pillar is carried forwards, or laterally, there is21(5 but a trifling degree of motion between any two bones ; the curve is gentle, and regular, so that the medulla spinalis readily accommodates itself to eveiy change of posture. Under the integuments of the posterior part of the trunk, we find expanded muscles, which pass from it to the upper extremities ; these muscles, under cer- tain circumstances, must modify the motions of the trunk. When the muscles which form this superficial stratum are reflected towards their insertions, we come to those which have a direct influence on the head and spine. At the nucha, or nape of the neck, there are some muscles which act upon the head, in antago- nizing those on the fore part, or in tuniiug the head backwards, or obliquely to one side; but throughout the remaining portion of the spine, we find the mus- cles which are appropriated to retain the spine erect, to bend it backwards, and to move it directly, or ob- liquely sideways. Distortions of the vertebral column may be pro- duced by vaiious causes. The cause may be a disease of the body, of one or more of the vertebrae, as caries from local injiuy. It may depend on an affection of the vertebral joints, or on some disease of the inter, vertebral substance, to which cause Dr. Jarrold has lately directed the attention of the Profession, in his Enquiry into the Games of Curvatures of the Spine." Besides the causes above enumerated, there217 are others; tlius, the vertehrae, the vertebral joints, and inter-vertebral substance, or one, or the whole of these sti-uctures may become secondarily affected from muscular debility; or either of the preceding causes separately, or the whole, conjointly, may be the effects of constitutional disease, -iff,. To detect the real cause of distortion then, is often exti-emely difficult; since different causes pro- duce nearly similar effects. We cannot agree with Pott that the primary and sole cause of the cm-vature outwards, is a distempered state of the parts compos- ing, or in immediate connection with the spine, tend- ing to, and most frequently ending in, a caries of the body, or bodies, of one or more of the vertebrae; that from this proceeds all the mischief, whether general or local, appai-ent or concealed; and that this causes the ill health of the patient, and in time the curvature. Nor can we simplify the question as Mr. Wilson, the late Lecturer on Anatomy, has done, by saying, " Incur- vations of the vertebral column ai-e of two kinds; one arising from rickets, in this, the bend is usually to the sides; the other from caries of the bodies of the ver- tebrae, the bend in which is forwards;" nor can we, with Dr. Jarrold, content ourselves by referring lateral curvature to a specific disease of the inter-ver- tebral substance. Mr. Shaw has recently published a Work on Distortions of the Spine, which is illustrated with a 2 E218 splendid set of plates. The volume contains a good deal of valuable information. It would occupy too much space to notice the Author's opinions on the nature of the diseases he treats; hut there are some points so relevant to the subject of the muscles, that I cannot refrain from giving them a place in this volume. Amongst other causes, he mentions debility of the muscles as one of the most frequent forerunners of distortion; he says " the muscles, whose office it is to support the vertebrae, may be so weakened by want of exercise, as to become incapable of performing their functions. When this takes place, the vertebra, and the ligaments which bind them together, yield to the superincumbent weight, for they are alFeeted in a secondary manner, by the same causes that have pro- duced debility in the muscles." I cannot make up my mind to think that muscular or general debility, is sufficient to produce a lateral cm-vatiu-e of the spme, miless conjoined to an indul- gence in certain malpositions of the trunk; this alone, as Mr. Shaw admits in another part of the Volume, may occasion distortion, even though the person were at the time in good health, but they would operate in an increased degree in ill health : or in the weak con- dition that generally follows fever or measles. When we exercise certain muscles, we increase the power of those muscles ; when then we indulge in inclining the body to one side, I can easily conceive that the acting muscles would in time gain such an ascendancy219 power, as to be inefficiently antagonized by the mnscles on the opposite side of the vertebral column; and that the spme Avonld thns be laterally curved, and remain so until means ai-e employed to equalize mus- culai- action. By Physiology we are taught, that the spine is kept erect by the equal and regulai- action of the muscles, situated on each side of the vertebrae; if then the spine is bent laterally, the action of the muscles cannot be equal, and that to render them so, must be one of the indications of cui-e. Mr. Grant of Bath, communicated to the late Mr. Wilson, that he had proposed to remove the late- ral incm-vation of the spine, by placing a weight on the head of the patient, on the principle of causmg a regular and equal action of the vertebral muscles. The practice struck Mr. Wilson as founded on just physiological principles, and he soon made a trial of it with a success which exceeded his most sanguine expectations. Mr. Wilson tried the plan in many in- stances during the last sixteen years of his life, and in no one instance, where it was properly persevered in, did he find it to fail in preventing the further pro- gress of the disease ; and in many it effected a perfect cure, at least so perfect, that no deformity was per- ceived, nor inconvenience in other respects suffered. The weight to be carried, must of course, be re- gulated by the age and strength of the patient.220 As adjuvants to this mode of trcatniciit. W.e should advise friction, a recumbent posture duiiug many houi's of the day, and attention to the regular functions of the chylo-poietic viscera. Mr. Shaw and Mr. Ward allude to the action of nmscles, as capable of restoring the sjiine to its natu- ral situation, and recommend certain mechanical con- trivances, in order to eifect this indication; but it must be specifically imderstood that no practice of this kind is applicable in all cases of distortion; that the remedy can only be prescribed with safety by the medical practitioner; and that to do good, it must be employed in the early stage of the disease. When there is inflammation of the ligaments, and vertebral joints, or caries of the corpora vertebrarum, such Jike means may be productive of irrepai-able mischief.NECK. The complicated Anatomy of the Neck, and the serious operations which are occasionally performed on this pai-t, render it imperative that the student should pay particular attention to it. He must accu- rately observe the coverings, the fascia, the muscles, the blood-vessels, nerves, and glands. The cutaneous muscles, veins, and fascia, must be traced; the mus- cles must be examined in their relation to the arteries; the arteries, veins, and nerves, in relation to the muscles, and to each other; and the absorbent and salivary glands in their relation to the trunk, and branches of the carotid. Before beginning the dissection of the neck, he should examine the prominent parts of the thi-oat through their natural covering; and by drawing lines, should familiarize himself with the relation of the muscles to the important blood-vessels and nei-ves. In studying the relative Anatomy of the neck, a great thing to be attended to is the position of the head. When the head is placed parallel to the horizon, all the hard parts are more distinct, and the distance between the chin and sternum is, of course, less than when the head is turned back. In either position, however, the OS hyoides, the thyroid cartilage, the cricoid cartilage, and the trachea may be felt. The most important cir- cumstances in the Anatomy of the neck, are the course and connections of the carotid arteries. We know,222 that in the operation of tying- the common carotid, onr guide to the seat of the vessel, is the inner edge of the sterno cleido mastoideus. A knowledge of the place -where the sterno cleido and omo hyoideus muscles meet, which is to be ascertained by drawing two lines, one from the anterior part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, to the centre of the upper bone of the sternum; the other from the corliu of the os hyoides to the clavicle, about an inch and a half from its junction with the sternum; will almost infallibly lead us to the seat of the carotid artery, where it can be most easily secured by ligature. This relation of the external parts to the carotid, applies equally to the nervus descendens noni, the internal jugular vein, and par vagum, for the descendens noni lies upon the sheath; and the internal jugular vein, and par vagum, are contained in the same common cellular envelope as the artery; but how placed with regard to it, is a point hereafter to be described. The fore part of the neck having been rendered tense, the following circumstances must be attended to in the dissection. The first incision is to be made through the skin, in the direction of the fibres of the thin layer of muscle called the platysma myoides, which in some subjects is so pale and indistinct as not to be easily recognized as muscular. The fibres run from the base of the jaw obliquely outwards, and downwards over the neck, clavicle, and upper part of the thorax.223 The student must next obsei-ve tlie external jugu- lar vein, which is formed by the union of the branches from the temple, foce, and neck; and descends be- hind the platysma niyoides, to the subclavian vein. At or near the angle of the jaw, this vessel anasto- moses by means of two or more branches with the infer- nal juguhxi- ; one of the vessels which return the blood from the brain. The external jugular is frequently opened for the purpose of abstracting blood, and with more advantage in diseases of the head, and in oph- thalmia than a vein in the arm; indeed it is probable, with more advantage even than the temporal artery, as the depletion is more local and more immediate in its effects. When we di-aw blood from a vein of the aim, the flow affects the head, in common with the other parts of the body. When we deplete fi-om the temporal artery, we take away that blood which was destined to supply the integuments of the head; and although between the vessels of the scalp and pericranium, and those of the dura mater, there are vascular communi- cations, they are only few in number. But the blood drawn fi-om the external jugular vein is derived directly from the exterior of the head, and indiiectly from the brain, through the medium of the inoscula- tions bet^veen the external and internal jugulars, near the angle of the jaw; and besides, from the discharge of blood being sudden, syncope is more speedily induced; and this is a gi'eat desideratiun in certain224 affections of the brain. When the jugular vein is lo be opened, the incision is to be made in the direction of the fibres of the platysma myoidcs muscle, and at the part where it passes over the body of the stemo cleido mastoideus; the current of blood towards the heart beilig, of coiu'se, intercepted by means of pressure. Having reflected the platysma myoides muscle towards the jaw, (in doing which, the student must avoid the twigs of nerves which come off from th« second, and third cervical branches,) the dissector will find tmderneath it much cellular structure, in which are embedded numerous absorbent glands; This structure insinuates itself between the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the neck. In a natural state, it is tolerably dense and strong; but by compressing causes, as the enlai'gement of glands, abscess, and aneurism, it takes on a very considerable thickness, ^'et, in the neck, the cellular fascia is not so compact, either under natural or diseased circumstances, as it is in some other parts of the body. The student will now proceed with the dissection of the deeper seated parts. He will first expose the sterno cleido mastoideus muscle throughout its whole course; then the omo hyoideus, the sterno hyoideus, and sterno thyroideus. If the sterno cleido mastoideus be drawn to the outer side, and the omo hyoideus pulled towards the trachea, the sheath of the vessels will be ex- posed ; exterior to it, will be seen the nerrus descendens225 iioni, which is a branch of the lingual; and on laying open the sheath, the carotid artery, and internal jugulur vein, will come into view ; and between them, or rather concealed by them, is the par vagum. The artery is on the inner side of the vein. The sheath in which these parts ai-e included, Avill be found, on exami- nation, to have a septum, or division, between the artery and vein; so that in the operation of tying the carotid, that pai-t only of the sheath must be opened, which lies immediately over the artery. Let the student now observe the artery, vein, and nerve, as situated with regard to the neighbouring parts. Below the point where the stemo cleido, and omo hyoideus muscles cross each other, he will find the sheath, concealed by the sterno cleido, omo, and sterno hyoideus muscles; above the point of decussa- tion, it is covered by the skin, platysma myoides, and fascia only. On the imier side, ai-e the larynx, thjToid gland, ti-achea, and oesophagus. On the outer side, in the middle of the neck, is the sterno cleido mas- toideus muscle; and behind it without the sheath, are, the inferior thjToideal artery, the longus colli, and rectus capitis major muscles; and these are the soft parts in the vicinity of the sheath of the carotid. For a great part of its course, the carotid ai-tery is accompanied by small absorbent glands, which, from forming one coimected chain, are called glandulas 2 F226 cb'ncatenatfB. Should one of tliese glands take on a diseased action, and enlarge in size, it might be mis- taken for aneurism. Mr. Burns mentions the case of a Avoman who had a tumour of the magnitude of a walnut on the side of the neck, which had a strong pulsation, owing to the action of the carotid under- neath ; several who saw it, and who satisfied them- selves with a supei-ficial examination, firmly heUeved it to be aneiu-ism, but it proved to be nothing more than an enlai-ged gland. Mr. Burns thinks that some of the reputed cases of aneurism in which spontaneous recovery took place, had been merely glandular tu- mours placed over the course of a large artery, and receiving an impulse from the vessel beneath. It is not only in the neck that an enlarged gland in the coiuse of an artery, may lead to a dangerous diagnosis; therefore we should carefully examine the •swelling before giving a positive opinion as to its nature. The pulsation may ai-ise not only from the gland being situated over a lai-ge artery, but fi-om a branch of an artery passing over the tumour. To discriminate between aneurism and the former case, the tumour should be puUed forwards, so as to be removed from the sphere of action of the arteiy; on doing this, all pulsation will cease if the tumour be merely glandular. To decide betAveen aneurism and the latter case; if aneurism, the pulsation is general; if a glandiUar tumour, the pulsation is only partial, or confined to a particular part of the swelling.227 It is i^ot requisite that I should point out the cases in which the ligature of the carotid aitery may be required; for information on that subject, I cannot refer the student to a better work, than Mr. Hodgson's " Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins;" nor need I enter on the minute history of the operation, as Cooper's " Surgical Dictionarija work which is, or ought to be, in the possession of every student, gives it in detaU; but on the disease which oftencr calls for its performance than any other, viz -.—aneurism, I shall make a few general observations, which will apply to this disease in all situations. The arteries are organized like the other struc- tures of the body, hence are liable to the same morbid /changes. They may inflame; thicken; become ob- literated by adhesion, as the sequela of inflammation; suppurate; ulcerate; and die. But besides these dis- eases, arteries are more than other structures subject to an osseous deposit in their coats, by which theii- function is interfered with; and aneurism is pecuUar to them, unless the dilatation of veins in varix, niay be regarded as a similar disease. An aneurism may be briefly defined a pulsating tumour, having a communication with the interior of an artery; how it is formed, however, is a matter of controversy amongst Pathologists. In some cases, it no doubt consists merely in a preternatiu-al yielding of the coats of the vessel; whilst in others, one, two, or228 the whole of Ihc coats give way by ulceration; and in these cases, the coat, or coats remaining entire, and the soft pai-ts near them, or the soft parts only, when all the coats yield, form the boundaries of the sac. An aneurism, at its commencement, is accompanied by a symptom which clearly denotes the nature of the affection; that symptom is pulsation; hut in a more advanced period of the disease, it is more obscure; and in the last stage, not to be felt. The progress of the disease is sometimes slow, and sometimes exceed- ingly rapid; a spontaneous cure of it seldom happens ; therefore, if it were not for the interference of art, the disease would almost invariably terminate in the bm-st- ing of the sac, and death. The treatment of aneurism may be divided into medical and surgical. On the former, much reliance cannot be placed; but digitalis, and low diet may, by moderating vascular action, retai-d the fatal issue of. the disease. The only mean, independent of the opera- tion, that can be employed with probable advantage, is compression, not partial, but general; that is to say, not to the tumour only, but to the whole member, for it is in aneurism of the ai-teries of the members alone, that compression can be used. There are cases on record, in which, it is said, compression has effected a cure, but it is in certain stages only of aneurism, that it can be advantageously, nay safely applied. If there be the least degree of inflammation of the aneurismid229 tumoiir, a circurastance indicated by pain on pressure, it -would be rash and dangerous to employ it. The cure, in this way, must at all times he an exceedingly tardy and wearisome process; hut it is justifiable in certain cases to tiy its effect. When acting in a pro- per manner, it gives no pain, and cui-es by diverting the current of the circulation from the aneurismal sac. Prior to the year 1785, (a period which should be kept in remembrance from having given birth to a most important improvement in operative surgeiy) the operation for aneurism was pregnant vfith difficulty and danger, so that Mr. Pott and others declared, that imtil a better mode of treathig the disease was discov- ered, amputation was the only resource in popliteal aneurism. The operation consisted in cutting open the tumour, cleaning it of its contents, and tying the artery at each extremity of the sac. We are told that this method was first adopted by Severinus and Tml- lus, about the year 1646, in a case of aneurism in the thigh ; and subsequently to them by many surgeons in France, Germany, and Italy. The first operation of the kind performed in this country, at least the first on record, occurred to Mr. Bm-chall, at the Manches- ter Infirmary, in 1757; an account of which, will be found in the third volume of " Medical Observations' and Inquiries." The fi-equent failure caused it to fall into disuse, and amputation of the limb was sub- stituted, until Jolui liimter's improvement superseded the necessity of so desperate an expedient.230 The new operation for aneurism was first per- formed by Mr. Hunter, in 1785, on a patient in St. George's Hospital. It consisted in tying the main trunk of the artery above the seat of disease; the points to be gained by this were, to obliterate the calibre of the vessel communicating with the aneurismal sac; to cut off the supply of blood to the tumour, and thereby to allow the diseased mass to be removed by absorp- tion. Since Hunter's time, the method of operating has been improved and simplified, and may now be said to have arrived at its ultimate perfection. After the main artery of a limb has been secured by a ligature, the blood finds its way to the parts below the obliterated point, by means of the anasto- moses, or communications which exist between the final ramifications of arteries. The passage of the blood by these collateral routes is at first difficult; but eventually becomes free, by a gradual dilatation of the anastomosing branches. Before then an operation for the cure of ancui-ism .be decided on, it is, of course, necessary to be assured, that there is a sufficient communication between the branches passing off above, and those passing off below, the part to which the ligature is to be applied; for the life of the limb cannot be preserved unless there is. One of the cai-otid arteries may be tied with perfect safety; but it is doubtful whether both can be. The subclavian may be secured, but the success is231 here more doubtful, than when one of the carotids is tied, and the reason will by and by be explained. The brachial, and its branches ; the intenial iliac ; the ex- ternal iliac; the femoral, and its divisions, may be operated on with safety; but whether the arteria inno- minata, and the aorta, can be tied with impunity, is questionable. Modern surgeiy, however, seems to be so aspiring, as to stand at nothing; and what can tend better to prove this assertion, than the bold opera- tion undertaken by Sir Astley Cooper, in 1817 ? This Sixrgeon dared even to pass a ligatm-e about the aorta three-fourths of an inch above its bifurcation ; but the ui-gent circumstances of tbe case fully justified so des- perate a measure. Dr. Mott, in America, has also distinguished himself by passing a ligature on the arteria imiominata, for a case of aneurism of the sub- clavian artery, where the whole vessel was found so diseased, that the Surgeon had no alternative, but to tie the common trunk. This was a bold operation, and the performance of it evinced, on the part of the Surgeon, great confidence in the resources of nature; but the confidence was warrantable, and why ? Mr. Burns tied the arteria innominata, on the dead subject, with two ligatures, and cut across the vessel in the space between them, without hurting any of the surrounding vessels. Afterwards, even coarse injections, impelled into the aorta, passed freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm; filling them and all the vessels of the head232 completely. Mr. Burns mentions a case, in which he? and others were induced to hint, that the arteria iuuo- miuata might he tied; but the boldness of the ope- ration, and the deficiency of data whereupon to esti- mate the ijrobabilily of its issue, forbade them to urge the proposition. We shall now enumerate the parts which are con- cerned in tying the common carotid arteiy; they are, the common integument; platysma myoides; fascia; stemo cleido mastoideus; omo' hyoideus; nervus de- scendens noni; sheath of the vessels; internal jugular vein; and par vagum. The nervus sympatheticus is situated without and behmd the sheath, therefore not at all endangered in the operation. An examination of the course and parts in con- nection with the arteiy, must fully convince us that the situation where it is most easily reached, is just above the decussation of the sterno cleido, and omo hypideus muscles; but the aneurismal tumour may be so low down, as to requii'e the ligatiu-e to be placed on the vessel below this spot; here the operation is more difficult, as the artery is deeper, and to expose it, the sternal head of the sterno cleido muscle must be raised. The right carotid arteiy is one of the branches into which the arteria innominata divides; the left carotid arises from the arch of the aorta, and at the'133 lower part of the neck this vessel lies close to the oesophagus It is no longer problematical whether the carotid artery can be safely tied; that injurious effects on the functions of the brain would supervene, was an appre- hension wliich the result of very many cases has fully proved to be totally unfounded. Putting a ligature about the carotid is almost an eveiy day operation, in large hospitals. The Anatomy of the blood-vessels shows, that the arteries which furnish blood to one side of the neck, face, scalp, and brain, freely anas- tomose with those of the other; hence one of the caro- tid ai-terics may be obliterated without danger. If both carotids were secured, the only resources left, are, the vertebral, inferior thyroideal, and superficial, and deep cervical arteries, which are branches of the subclavian, and not adequate I think, to furnish the' necessaiy supply of blood. In passing the ligature, care must be taken that neither the par vagum, nor jugular vein, is included in the ligature, for to tie either would be fatal. This is to be received as certain, with regard to the nerve, and nearly equally so with respect to the vein; for the dangerous effects of a ligature on a vein, has caused the operation of tying the vena saphena for varix of the lower extremity, to be abandoned as unsafe. The head being still more bent back than it has been for the dissection of the carotid, and its connections in the 2 G234 lower aud middle regions of the neck, the student wUl pursue the course of the ailery towards the angle of the jaw, where it usually divides into two considerable branches, the internal, and external carotids; the internal enters the foramen carotidnni, to sui)ply the anterior part of the brain; the external furnishes branches to the neck, face, and scalp. With resjject to the place where the diyision of the common carotid takes place, it now and then varies, but generally it is said to divide opposite to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, a transverse line then drawn from this point, will be our guide to the seat of bifurcation. Before tracing the external carotid, and the branches which arise from it, the following parts of the basis of the jaw must be sought for: the inferior portion of the parotid gland; the digastricus, and the muscles which take their origin from the styloid pro- cess of the temporal bone; the submaxillaiy gland; absorbent glands; the mylo hyoideus; the hyoglossus, and the other muscles of the tongue; the sublingual gland; and the ducts of the salivaiy glands. The stu- dent is next to follow the nerves of this part, viz.—the glosso pharyngeal, the lingual, the nervus accesso- ritts Willisii, &c.; and deeper seated, he will find the par vagmn, and great sympathetic emerging from the cranium. The relative position of the external and internal carotids, with regard to each other, aud to the235 parts mentioned, must be observed: it will be found' that the internal carotid is deeper seated than the external, and separated from it by the styloid process of the temporal bone; that the extenial runs close to- the tonsil gland; and that there is an intricate an-ange- ment of stiiictures about the angle of the jaw. The internal carotid artery sends off no branch until it enters the skull; but the extenial begins imme- diately to supply the neighbourmg parts. The place of origiii of its branches frequentiy varies; but the following aie usually found to arise from it:—The superior thyroideal; the lingual; the facial, or extetr nal maxiUary; the ascending phaiTngeal; the occi- pital ; the temporal; and internal maxiUary. These different branches must be followed, ajxd their relations accurately noted. The parts about the basis, and angle of the jaw, cannot be well described; it is by dissection only, that a knowledge of them can be obtained. The student will then learn, how the sti-uc- tures of this portion of Anatomy aie intermixed; and that to remove a tiimour from this pai-t, is a serious operation, unless conducted with caye, and anatomir cal skill. The student is now to go to the central porr tion of the neck, in<;luding the trachea, oesophagus, and their connections. Above the trachea is the ps hyoides, to which the muscles of the tongue are attached; below the os hyoides is the thyroid carti^236 lage; still lower the cricoid; and then the rings of the trachea. A little below the cricoid cartilage Ave find the thyroid gland, consisting of two lobes ; it is sup- plied by four considerable vessels, two of which origi- nate from the subclavian, and two from the external carotid arteries. When the thyroid gland is of its natural size, it lies a little below the cricoid cartilage; but when augmented in bulk, by bronchocele, or the Derbyshire disease, so called from its being endemic in the County of Derby, it extends upwaids, so as to covier the thyroid cartilage; laterally, so as to derange the natural position of paits; and downwards, so as to encroach upon the large vessels which arise from the arch of the aorta. When we observe the relation of the lobes of the thyroid gland to the carotid arteries, we should sup- pose, and in the majority of cases om* supposition would be correct, that the vessels would be situated behind the tumom-; but an instance has occm-red in my practice lately; where, in an aged female, the carotid arteries were thrown considerably out of their course. When I first saw the tumour, I observed on each side, at the exti-eme point of its lateral region, a movement of the integuments; and on applying my finger to the part, I found a strong pulsation; the vessel was superficial, and the dimension of it was neariy equal to the size of my little finger.237 Notwithstanding the extraordinaiy magnitude of the tumour, iu this case, the patient experiences no inconvenience either iu swallowing or breathing. She had an attack of hemiplegia about two yeaxs ago, but whether the cause was at all connected with the bron- chocele, no positive opinion can be given. The nature of bronchocele is not involved in much obscurity; on cutting into it the natural cells of the gland ai-e increased in size, but the structure does not appear changed in any other respect. The inhabitants of the Alps are very subject to the disease, which has by some writers been attributed to the use of snow water: but in Derbyshire, it is considered a more common disorder than in any other county of England, and there, such a cause does not operate. I agree with Dr. Thomas, the author of the " Modern Practice of Physic;' in thinking, that a predisposition to the disease is frequently entailed on the children, by the parent; and that where we meet with bronchocele in particular districts, it is rather owing to the inhabitants intermaiTying among each other, thereby entailing the predisposition to it, on their offspring; than to any peculiarity in the articles used for diet. Various remedies have been recommended for the cure of this disease, amongst which, the burnt sponge has long maintained its character of being the most efficacious. From chemistry having shown, that the basis of the spongia usta is subcarbonate of soda,238 this alkaline preparation has of late been used as a succedaneura, and with equal success. lodiue has recently been extolled, especially by the continental writers, as almost a specific in this disease; it is ap- plied externally in the form of ointment, and ten or twelve drops of the tincture are to be given internally,, twice or three times a day. That friction by any oint- ment is likely to do good, no one will doubt; as it is a powerful means of exciting the action of the absor- bents, but I should place more confidence on mercurial than iodine ointment; and as absorption may be pro- moted by combining internal medicines with topical applications, I should have more dependence on small doses of calomel, than on either burnt sponge, pr iodine. The practicabUity of extirpating the thyroid gland when so enlarged as to interfere with respiration, and deglutition, is a point to which much consideration has been given. The use of the knife has been depre- cated by some Surgeons, on account of the terrible hoemorrhage which would succeed, and certain it is, that without precautionary measures, this would offer an insuperable objection. We know, however, the sources from whence the arterial hoemorrhage would proceed, viz :—the two superior, and two inferior thyroideal arteries; these therefore must be secui-ed immediately after the flaps of integument hav§ been raised, and before the body of the tumoiu" is detached.239 The venous hoemorrbage may be commanded by pressure. But after the four thyroideal arteries have beeu tied, it is not prudent to use the scalpel in order to separate the swelling from surrounding parts: the best operating Sm-geons advise, that in the removal of all tumoui-s from parts where important sti"uctures are interwoven with each other, as in the neck, at the angle of the jaw, and in the axilla, it is better, after cutting through the integuments, that the knife should be laid aside, and that the fingers, assisted occasionally by a blunt instrument, should be substituted in order to detach the swelling from contiguous parts. If these circumstances be attended to, the opera- tion is practicable, and may be performed in eases of extreme emergency; the emergency however is not to be estimated by the magnitude of the tumour, but by its mechanical effects on the trachea, and eesophagus. Every enlargement of the thyroid gland is not bronchocele. It is liable to increase in size from other causes; as suppuration, dropsy, fungus, cancer, &c. It is well to bear this knowledge in mind, in coming to a decision on the nature of the affections of this organ. In another place, we mentioned that an enlarged absorbent gland before the carotid, has been mistaken for aneurism; if then, the student observes how the arteiy is likely to be situated, with regard to the cor- responding lobe of the thyroid gland, if one lobe only240 be broiichocelic, he may easily conceive that such a mistake in this case is possible; for the tumour would receive an impulse from the pulsation of the arteiy which it covers. Having observed the cartilages of the larynx, the trachea, and the soft parts about them, the student will consider the operations of larjngotomy, trache- otomy, and cesophagotomy. Neither cutting into the larynx, nor ti-achea, can, in a:general way, be neces- sary, Avhen the object is merely to inflate the lungs, as a tube may be introduced from the nostril ; but one or other of these operations, may be required for the pur- pose of exti-acting foreign bodies, which have slipped into the aerial passage. When any hard substance, as a bit of bone, or a pea, has got into the wind-pipe, it would be desirable to know its exact seat, for this would determine our choice of situation where an opening might best reach it The feelings of the patient may deceive us; for if the foreign body is not firmly fixed, the current of air will move it up and down in the trachea, and the person will refer his pamful sensations sometimes to one part, and sometimes to another; but the distress attendant on an accident of this kind, is often so great, as to disable the patient from giving any satisfactory clue to the exact seat of imtation. It is obvious I think, that to extract a body stick- ing in the rima glottidis, the most convenient operationm for reaching it, vrouhX be that recommended by Mr; Coleman; not, however, for tjie purpose we are now considering-, but for artificial respiration. It is, to divide the thyroid cartilage by £i longitudinal incision ; an union of which, afterwards, is said to be as com- pletely effected, as if the trachea itself Avere cut; this operation is called laryngotoiuy. If the body had freely passed into the wind-pipe, and from being of a rounded form was capable of beuig carried up and down in that jJassage by the air, I think traclieotomy would be preferable to laryngo- tomy, and my gi-ound of preference is founded on the experiment of Favier, related by Burns, which is, that when a pea was faii'ly put into the trachea of a dog, and an opening made into the wind-pipe below the thyroid gland, the pea was raised by the force of the air expelled from the limgs, and thrown out by the wound; and this took place as often as the foreign substance was put into the wind-pipe. This might happen fi-om the proximity of the opening to the bronchi; but the pea would not, I presume, have so readily made its exit through an apertm-e in the larynx, as the edges would not be so far separable without danger, as the divided rings of the trachea are ; and independent of this circumstance, the body would be more likely to escape during a forcible expi-, ration, as it would meet with no obstruction until it arrived at the rima glottidis. 2 H242 Mr Burns applies the result of Favier's experi- iuent to disprove the opinion, that when a foreign body has unquestionably slipped into the larynx, bron- chotomy, or U-acheotomy, can only be useful, where the substance is situated ahove the point where the perforation is to be made; and he fully proves the opinion to be erroneous, by observation on a female patient of his own, in whom a plum-stone got into the trachea, and where, by careful examination, the foreign substance was ascertained to ascend, and descend, with great rapidity, during the acts of expi- ration, and inspiration. Additional testimony of the facts mentioned by Favier and Bui-ns, is furnished by a case which occun-ed to M. Boyer, a French Surgeon o acknow- ledged eminence, and published in the " Nonveau Journal de MedScine,- for February, 1820. The operations of tracheotomy, and laryngo-tra- cheotomy of M. Boyer, are not so simple as laryi^go- tomy as more caution is necessary, owing to varieties wM ; not unfrequently occi. in the distribution of Irteries about the neck. Should both carotids arise ; m he arteria innominata, the left branch must cross ^e trachea, and thus would be endangered m txache- ! omy Burns makes mention of a preparation m he excelVent museum of Dr. Barclay, Lectiirer on A a 01^ at Edinburgh, where the two inferior thy-243 roideal aitenes aiise by a common truuk from the rio-ht subclavian artery. The vessel creeps up the side of the ti-achea, lower than the gland, and when it has reached the front of the wind-pipe, it divides into two branches. It is well to beai- the possibility of these maldistributions of the arteries in mind, as it enforces the necessity of care, and tliat in the operation of ti-acheotomy, it is safer to lay down the knife after the crucial incision has been made, and to expose the rings of the trachea with the fingers, than to run the risk of being aimoyed by an unexpected hcemorrhage. If a vessel be wounded, of coiu-se it must be secured by ligature, before an opening be made into the wind-pipe. The presence of foreign bodies in the trachea, is not the only case which may require either of these ope- rations. In the Thiid Volume of the " Transactions of the Association of Fellows and Licentiates of the King's, and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland,'' there is an account of a case of cynanche laiyngea, by R. Carmichael, Esq. in which ti-acheotomy was per- formed with success; and in the Seventy-seventh Number of the " Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal," there are two instances related by IMr. Lis- lon, in which the same operation was required, and fully succeeded. One was a case of cedema glottidis, a disease described by Bayle; the other, a case in which the lai7nx was paralized by a blow, and where244 suffocation was threatened by a collection of some fluid in the trachea, and its ramifications. The next point to which the student Inust attend, is the situation of the oesophagus, behind the wind- pipe, as it will lead him to select the safest place for the operation of cesophagotomy. The pharynx, or upper part of the gullet, is of a funnel shape, and of a muscular sti-ucture; it termi-. nates in the cesopha^s, just opposite to the inferior edge of the larynx; thus the cesojjhagus and trachea may be Said to commence opposite to each other. At their commencement, the one is placed immediately behind the other; but as the oesophagus descends, it inclines to the left, and in the lower part of tlie neck is seen projecting beyond the side of the wind-pipe, and not far distant from the carotid arteiy. The piln- cipal parts connected with the side of the cesophagus aJe, the branches of the recuiTent lierve, and the infe- rior thyroideal artery, which are situated near the projecting part of the canal. Substances may lodge in the pharjiix or ceso- phagus, and suffocate by producing spasmodic con- striction, or by their pressure on the trachea. The modes of giving relief are, exti-actiou of the substance by the finger, or a ciu'ved forceps; pushing it into the stomach by means of a probang; or cutthig down upon^45 it through the walls of the guUel. WheA a petSoiij in the act of deglutition, is thrown into the agony of threatened suffocation, we are not all at once to conclude, that the morsel of food is detained iu the pharynx from being too large to pass into the con-^ tracted oesophagus; it is possible, from the epiglottis not having performed its office duly, that the ihorsel, or a portion of it, has entered the rima glottidis. I was present at the inspection of the body of a female, who struggled, and died, at St. Peter's Hospital, Bristol, whilst in the act of eating her dinner. Suffo- cation was suspected by the by-standefs, but they were incompetent to give any assistance, and before the Surgeon reached the ward, the patient was a corpse. On examining the throat, a lal-ge morsel of meat was found firmly impacted in the upper part of the larynx. Our first attempt, in all cases of suffocatioli, should be to introduce the fingers, and endeavour to extract the substance; if not within reach of the fingers, a curved forceps, or probang, must be used; but perhaps neither are at hand; in this extremity, a bougie, a piece of whalebone, well guarded at its point, or any flexible substance, must be employed; there is no time to be lost; for what is to be done, must be done quickly. In the introduction of an instrument, the student must recall to mind what has been already said on the influence of the movements of the tongue on the epiglottis. But it may not be246 adviseable to push the foreign body into tlie stomach ; or if adviseable, it may not be practicable to do so: in the former case, we must endeavour to draw it out; and in the latter, the operation of cesophagotomy affords the only chance of saving life. If the relation of parts in the space bounded by the trachea and oesophagus on the inner side, and the inner edge of the sterno cleido on the outer, be recollected by the student, he will have no difficulty in stating what are the parts to be avoided by the knife; the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and par vagum, are shielded by the condensed celliUar sheath which surrounds them. There are two arteries in danger of being Avounded, viz.—the infe- rior thyroideal, which is a branch of the subcla- vian; and the superior thyroideal, wliich is sent off from the external carotid. The first of these arteries bends behind the sheath of the vessels, and passes in an oblique direction upwards, towards the inferior portion of the thyroid gland, on which it ramifies; the course of the superior thyi-oideal artery has an equal degree of obliquity downwaids, but it is more tortuous than the inferior; it expends itself on the upper por- tion of the thyroid gland; but neither of these vessels need be interfered with, for the one is below, and the other above the place of the incision ; besides fm-ther safety is given by our discontinuing to use the cutting edge of the knife after the deeper seated pai-ts have247 been exposed, and separating with the finger, or the liandle of the scalpel, all the structures contiguous to the place where the oesophagus is to be opened, which is determinable by the situation of the foreign body. In the performance of all operations, we wish as much as possible to avoid an eifusion of blood, as its presence obscures the parts to be divided by the knife; hcemon-hage is one soui-ce of that intimidation which evei-y youug operator feels, and of which, experience alone can perfectly divest him. The student has already seen, that the external jugular vein runs superficially; without care, this vessel, or some of its larger branches, may be cut in making the incision through the integument. The trunk of the vein is not endangered in the majority of subjects, as its course is obliquely outwards; but there is usually a pretty considerable branch, which Fyfe calls, the " anterior jugular," which ascends between the trachea and inner edge of the sterno mastoid mus- cle, and this ought to be avoided by the knife; but there are frequent varieties in the distribution of venous branches throughout the body; therefore we must ti7 to make them apparent by distension, which is done by pressing on the main tnmk, so as to inter- cept the current of blood towards the heart. There is another portion of the neck, which the student has to dissect, viz.—the triangular space248 bounded by tbe outer edge of the sterno mastoideus muscle on tbe inner side; the edge of the trapezius muscle on the outer; and the clavicle which consti- tutes the basis of the triangle; but as the important parts, -which it contains, belong principally to the upper extremity, I shall defer the consideration of it, until we enter on a description of that part of the body.THORAX. The thorax, whether regarded anatomically, phy- siologically, or pathologically, is decidedly the most important part of the human body, as it encloses organs, the most essential to onr existence. A wound of the head, or abdomen, may destroy life, but a per- son seldom sui-vives a penetrating wound of the lungs, in consequence of the ha?raorrhage which follows; and a wound of the heart is almost instantly fatal. The lungs and heart (strictly speaking) are vital organs; and Nature, all wise in her plans, has taken cai-e to place them in a situation, and to suiTOund them with a wall, well calculated to defend them fi-om external violence. When we look to the Anatomy of the parietes oF the chest, we observe that they are composed of mate- rials well adapted to resist injuries. The muscles of the abdomen oppose the effects of a blow, if not exceed- ingly violent; but the means are less protective than those of the thorax, as the latter consist chiefly of bone; the necessity for which is founded on the great importance of the thoracic viscera, and the di'eadfiil consequences of a sudden suspension of their function. The basis of all the bony parts of the chest is the spine; or that portion of it which is included within the last cei-vical, and first lumbar vertebrae. From this point, the ribs pass forwards on each side, 2 I250 and the piincipal of them are imited anteriorly to the sternum, by means of intervening cartilages. The student must examine the processes, and remarkable points in the bony paa-ts of the thorax; he must observe how the muscles before and behind are expanded upon the ribs, and the protection thus afforded against fractures, ai>d how they may affect the walls of the chest, when their insertions are fixed. Between the ribs he will find the two layers of inter- costal muscles; and there are other muscles, with the uses of which he must make himself acquainted. On noticing the ribs in their mode of junction^ ivith the sternum, with the vertebrae, and with each other, it must be evident that in case of fracture, the broken exti-emities can only be displaced inwards, or outwards; their connection, before and behind, prevents any derangement in length; and the fragments cannot be carried either upwards, or downwai-ds, on accoxmt of the intercostal musculai- fibres acting equally above, and below the extremities of the broken bone. Tlie thoracic cavity is shut out from the neck, by the muscles and blood-vessels going to, and returning from the neck, head, and upper extremities; and below, from the abdomen, by the diaphi-agm. Having raised tjie sternum and cartilages of the ribs, we obtain a view of the viscera of the chest, invested by their pleuritic membrane. Inclined to the left, from a251 central line drawn perpeudicuhu-ly (considering the body erect) we see the pericardium, which co^tains the heart; and laterally, arc the lungs. The internal figure of the chest is conical; but the basis of the cone is not horizontal; the diaphragm being obliquely placed, so that the posterior part of the chest encroaches more on the abdominal cavity than the anterior; and this muscle is not flat, but convex. This muscular septum will be more particu- larly described when we speak of the parietes of the abdomen; but the student must, at this time, observe its relations to the thoracic viscera. On raising the sternum, the student would remark a ti-iangulax space, formed by the recession of the pleurae. When we say pleurae, it is not to be under- stood to mean, that there are two bags, for there is only one; but the term pleurae is made use of by some Anatomists to distinguish the plem-a of the right side, from that of the left. It is ti-ue, the chest is divided into two distinct cavities, but this merely arises from the attachments of the membrane to the sternum, before, and to the vertebrae behind; forming the two spaces, named, the mediastina: but here let me observe, the division between the right and left cavity of the chest is not exactly in the middle; as from before, back- wards, the septum passes with a degree of obliquity. The annexed diagram will point out the course of252 thft pleuritic membrane, which secretes a halitus to lubricate the surface, and thereby to prevent the parts ■which are in contact, from adhering to each other. It is not only a lining, but reflected membrane; that is to say, it not only lines the walls of the chest, but gives a covering to the lungs and pericai-dium. The accom panying plan represents a view produced by an hori- zontal section of the thorax, and its contents; I have thought it necessary to give it, as there is nothing which perplexes students more than the reflection of membranes, and when represented to the eye in the form of a diagram, nothing is more simple. The pleura is a single bag without an opening; to demonstrate its course over the parietes of the thorax, and the viscera, the bag must be broken into, and the rupture is made at the stenium. A.—marks the spine. B.—The sternum. C. C. —The ribs. D.—The situation of the heart in its pericardium. E. E.—The lungs. F.—The aorta, G.—The oesophagus. H.—The vena azygos. I.— The thoracic duct. The reflection is to be commenced at (a),' behmd the sternum. From this point, the pleura goes to line the inner surface of the ribs on the left side (b), form- ing the pleura costalis. Having reached the spine, it is to be traced over the outer surface of the lung (c), I'ormiiig the pleura pulmoualis. It then returns toriate ? A BIAGBAM af the REKLECTIOH of tlic PlLEUMA, Engraved by T.Fielding.253 the spine on the internal surface of the lung (d), adaj^t- iug itself to the irreg-ularitics of the lobes. It then passes over the pericardium (e e); then on the inter- nal surface of the right lung (f); afterwai'ds on the external face of the same lung (g); and finally, on the right wall of tlie chest (h), to terminate behind the sternum where the reflection was begun. Thus the pleura is a complete bag without an apertui'e, and all the viscera of the chest are situated exterior to it. The mediastinum anterius contains the thymus gland, and cellular membrane; the mediastinum posterius en- closes the important parts, marked, F. G. H. and I. It is to be remembered that the pleura adheres closely to the walls, and organs of the chest, and that it is represented as separated irom them, merely for the sake of clearness. We have said, that the pleura is a secreting mem- brane, and that the fluid, or halitus, which it gives out, is for the purpose of preventing adhesion between its surfaces. During life and health, the exhalation, and absorption of this fluid are equal; thus the pleura is an absorbing, as well as an exhaling surface; and its fluid is never in excess; but inflammation materially affects the secretion; when excessive, the secretive function is susjjended, and then the surfaces of the pleura costalis, and pleura joulmonaris, adhere; when the inflammation is mild, the secretion is increased, and this is one of the causes of hydro-thorax.254 The proximate causes assigned for dropsies in the different parts of the body, arc, increased secretion, and diminished absorption. When more fluid is poured out by the exhalent vessels of the pleura, than natural, although the absorbents are as active as in health, it is obvious that the fluid would accumulate, from the balance of exhalation and absorption being destroyed. On the other hand, should the exhalation be in its due quantity, and absorption by any cause be diminished, it is equally obvious, that the result would be similar. This is the view which Patholo- gists have taken of the nature of dropsies. But some modern experiments on the mechanism of absorption, by the ingenious French Physiologist Majendie, may tend, by their result, to overthrow this kind of reason- ing on the proximate causes. From a series of well- conducted experiments, he has been led to infer, that the veins and arteries, both large and small, are en- dowed with an absorbent power; that absorption depends on the capillary attraction of the vascular walls; that the more numerous the vessels, the more rapid is the absorption; and that distension, or ple- thora, weakens the absorbing power, and if conside- rable, entirely suspends it. The results of the experiments, which will be found detailed in the First Number of the " Journal de Phijsiologie Experimentale," are exceeding inter- esting ; and prove, either that the blood-vessels ai-e endowed with an absorbent power, and that that power255 is weakened, or destroyed, by over-distension; or that the action of the lymphatics is much under the influ- ence of the circulation; to whichever conclusion we come, the practical inferences are not materially diffe- rent, so far as dropsies are concerned. Such information as this, and coming from so respectable an authority, will have the effect of alter- ing our views with regai'd to effusions. We can no longer refer them to either increased secretion, or diminished absorption operating independently. In dropsy from active causes, there is not only an increased secretion, but also diminished absorption; and to cure in this case, we must bleed. Bleeding has recently been highly extolled, as a remedy in effusions; but it is in effusions from the above causes only, that it can do good, when they are of a passive nature; as in cases whei'e there is a want of energy, it must do harm. In di'opsies fr-om debility, an opposite indica- tion is necessary; and if we succeed in fulfilling it, the accumulated fluid will soon become absorbed, the equilibrium of exhalation and absorption be restored, and the parts again resume their healthy function; but this happy termination can only be expected, when thei'e is no organic disease. Serum is not the only fluid which may lodge in the chest; pus, and blood, have been discovered in many cases. The presence of pus most commonly results from the bui'sting of an abscess of the lungs;^56 but Dr. Baillie mentions, that the pleura may be so inflamed as to form it. In his valuable Work on *' Morbid Anatomy," he states, that empyema may be distinguished with a good deal of certainty, after inflammation of the iileura, or lungs, by rigors having taken place, by a remission of the pain, by the cough and difliculty of breathing continuing; and by the per- son being able to lay more easily upon the diseased side, than the other. It is not always, however, that there are notable signs of the presence of matter in the chest: Portal speaks of a patient who had an attack of peripneumonia, which left a slight difficulty of breath- ing, and a little debility, but there was no cough, no oedema of the lower extremities, and no fever ; yet on examining the body after death, the right cavity of the chest was found almost filled with pus. v ; ( Blood in the thorax must proceed either from the rupture of a blood-vessel, or vessels ; from the trans- udation of this fluid tlirough the relaxed coats of the arteries, or veins, or from the exhalent extremities. If the extravasation be considerable, we must appre- hend danger; but if not great, the coagula may become absorbed, and therefore be productive only of tempo- rary inconvenience. When water, or pus, is actually known to be present in the right, or left cavity of the chest, is it safe to puncture the parictes for its discharge ? This question involves two considerations; the safety, aud257 expediency of the operation. When we have two evils to contend with, viz.—the imminent danger, in Avhich a person lahouring under hydro-thorax is placed, and the possibility of exciting inflammation in the pleura, by inflicting a wound in it; there can be no doubt of the justifiability of hazarding an opera- tion. We have only to fear two things, viz—a wound of the intercostal arteiy, and inflammation; the first may, in a general way, be avoided, by tlividing the intercostal muscles at the vpper edge of the seventh rib; for the arteiy, vein, and nerve, occupy the lower margin : there are, however, some exceptions. I have seen the vessels ruiming intermediately between the ribs; but certainly never near the upper edge. With ren-ard to the inflammation which may ensue, if great, ■n e can commonly check it by depletion; if trifling, it may have a beneficial effect in efiusion from chronic inflammation, by changing the action of the vessels; for instances are not wanting to show, that an acute disease will often cure a chronic one, and it is this law in Pathology, upon which, injection for the radical cure of hydi-ocele is founded. With regard to the expediency of the operation, this is more difficult to determine. Could we posi- tively ascertain that the Avater, or pus, arose from a disease of the pleura only, no Surgeon would hesitate to operate, for many instances of cure are recorded; but when there is organic disease in the heart, no good is likoly to result from the operation, and there-258 fore it would not be prudent to ijerform it; when in the lungs, the propriety is rendered less (questionable, by the theory of Dr. Carson, to which we shall pre- sently adA'ert. Having inquired into the natural, and most com- mon morbid conditions of the j)leura, we shall now notice the relative position of the organs of the thorax and the effects of respii'ation on the walls and contents of the chest. The heart is observed not to be in the median line, but inclining to the left side. To show how the lungs lie, they should be inflated, when it will be seen how perfectly they adapt themselves to the figure of the cavities, so as to leave between their surface and the parietes, no vacuity; this is the state in Avhich they are during life o.nd health. Respiration is their function; and consists of two parts, inspiration, and expiration. In inspiration, the chest is expanded on all sides, in consequence of an elevation of tlie ribs, and a descent of the diaphragm, produced by the contrac- tion of the intercostales, levatores costai-um, and diaphragm; assisted occasionally by the sterno mas- toidei, subclavii, sen-ati, pectorales, and latissimi dorsi muscles; but in order that the tlu-ee last sets of muscles act, the shoulders must be fixed. In expiration, the chest is contiacted in all its dimensions; the contraction is caused by the depres-259 sion of the ribs, and the ascent of the diaphragm; the ribs fall in consequence of the intercostales ceasing to act, and by the contraction of the sterno costales, and the five paii-s of muscles of the abdomen, aided occa- sionally by the longissimi dorsi, sacro-lumbales, and quadi-ati limiborum muscles. Tt is to be remembered that the diaphragm is the principal agent in both parts of respiration, when the function is executed in a natural maimer. In ordinary breathing, it is but feebly assisted, even by the intercostales ; and it is only when respiration is exceedingly laborious, that the other muscles attached to the ribs ai-e called into action. The lungs are accurately fitted to tlie cavity in which they lie, as well in expiration, as inspii-ation; this results from the elastic property of these organs. They are kept distended by the pressure of the atmos- phere; but on puncturing the chest, air wUl rush into the cavity, and then by the pressure on oue side being counter-balanced by pressure on the other, the kmgs collapse, because the elastic power can now act with- out resistance. A practical deduction has lately been drawn fi-om this knowledge by Dr. Cai-son, of Liver- pool, and he has applied it to the treatment of the most fatal of all diseases, consumption of the lungs. In an advanced state of phthisis, vomicaj, or ab- scesses; ulcerations, and other morbid appearances, are found in the substance of the limgs.260 Abscesses are seldom known to heal when situa- atecl in these organs, and one of the reasons of this would seem to be, that the parts cannot be kept in a state of rest. If an abscess of the lungs were to burst, and the matter were to discharge itself by the trachea, the sides of the abscess Avould fall together, granula- tions would arise, adhesions form, and in time the sac would become obliterated in the same way as ab- scesses of other parts. But the function of the lungs renders this almost impossible, because the parts cannot be kejit in that quiescent state, which is neces^ sary to the reparative process we have described. The deduction is, that if the lungs can be kejit quiet, abscesses may heal in them as in other structures; hence it has been proposed to punctui-e the chest with a view to cause a collapse of the lungs, by admitting air into the cavity of the thorax. The operation has been performed, at the recommendation of Dr. Carson, on a gentleman of Liverpool; but it was unsuccessful. In the Thirty-first Number of the Medical Intelli- gencer,^'' the editors mention, that they saw it inad- vertently tried, and that the effect was remai-kably satisfactory, for the patient felt comparatively well for a short time after the operation. Dr. Carson's suggestion is plausible; but it can- not succeed where adhesions exist to a great extent, and where there are constitutional circumsttujces to contend with.261 Phthisis piilnioiialis is a general term, and implies tliat condition of the lungs in which matter has formed as the sequela of inflammation. In an advanced state of the disease, there is general emaciation, and hectic fever, as the consequences of the morbid state of the lungs. Phthisis may result from common or specific causes; amongst the former, is pneumonia from cold; amongst the latter, are hereditary diathesis, and defec- tive organization. Between these causes, a distinction should be made in practice, as the chance of cure in the one case, is far greater than that in the other. If a man, having no specific tendency to the disease, should happen to be attacked with inflammation of the lungs, and in spite of depletion, and a rigid adherence to an antiphlogistic regimen, matter should form, either in the right or left limg, and be discharged per ti-acheam, the abscess would heal, if it were not for the unfavourable circumstances, under which the disease is placed; which circumstances have already been alluded to. In such a case, the operation might be successful, because the disease may be considered as local; but without an operation, the morbid action will continue; the general system will be brought to sympathize with the local deraugement; all the symp- toms characteristic of advanced phthisis will ensue; and the patient will sink under them; these observa- tions illustrate the origin, progress, and termination of phthisis, from a common cause if there be no inter- ference from art.262 But in phthisis from a specific cause, the case is quite different; the disease is dependant on inherent detects, and without eradicating these, all attempts at cure will be inefficient; in such a case, it is obvious, the operation can do no good. The distinctions established are, in a practical point of view, of exti-eme importance; and expose, I think, in a striking manner, the probable efficiency, and inefficiency, of Dr. Carsoii's proposal. The lungs are closely applied to the inner surface of the ribs, and this will lead the student to reflect on the dangerous effects of wounds of the chest, and the consequences of fractures of the costs. If a sharp instrument be tlu-ust through the intervals of the ribs, it must, almost of necessity, wound the lungs, and the probabUity is, that the person will die fi-om hcemon-hage. The blood wiU not flow through the aperture which has been made in the parietes, but into the cavity of the thorax; for on aii- being admitted, the lungs will recede. If a rib be fi-actured in a pointed manner, and the sharp fragment be forcibly di-iven inwards, it may tear through the pleura pulmonalis, and peneti-ate the lung; a lacerated wound of this kind is not commonly suc- ceeded by much hoemorrhage, but there will be another eflect, which is almost constant, viz.-em-263 physema, which is a swelling produced by air diffusing itself in the cellular membrane under the skin. Some- times the diffusion is partial; but it may extend over the whole surface of the body. If the fractui-e of the rib were compound, (an accident which seldom occurs), emphysema would not be likely to take place, because if the lung were torn by the ragged extremity of the bone pushed inwai-ds, the air would have a fi-ee exit by the external opening. It sometimes succeeds to wounds; but it is principally in gun-shot; because, as Mr. John Bell observes, the orifice in the skin inflames and swells, while the wound is wider within. On emphysema it is not neces'saiy that I should dwell; I have explained the cause of this affection, and for the treatment, shall refer the reader to Works on Sui-geiy. The student will now expose the heart by making a longitudinal incision in the pericardium. The pericardium is a perfect bag, like the pleura; and after giving a close covering to the heart, it is reflected, so as to form the loose portion, which is composed of two layers, the pleuritic and pericai-diac. Its inner surface is a secreting surface, like the pleui-a; the secreted fluid is called, liquor pericardii, and pre- vents the pericardium from adhering to the heart; inflammation, and other diseases affect this mem- brane in a similar way to the pleura. A preternaturalcollection of the serum of this bag, gives rise to the disease called, hydrops pericardii: M. Skielderup, of Copenhagen, proposes, in cases of this kind, to remove by a trephine, a portion of the sternum, between the fifth and sixth ribs, and to let out the fluid by puncture. The student will find the heart lying obliquely to the left side in this bag; the base of it is placed back- wards, the apex forwards; and if the apex be accu- rately noticed, with regard to the part of the parietes to which it corresponds, it will be found that it is a little below the nipple of the left breast. Some of the ancients supposed that the heart lay perpendicularly iu the thorax; that is, in a line with the steraum; an error induced by their observations being confined to the Anatomy of brutes. The incision in the pericardium is tobe continued upwards, so as to make the great vessels at the basis of the heart conspicuous, and the student must ob- serve the situation of the right and left cavities of this organ, and the veins which terminate in, and the arteries which proceed fiom them. The left ventricle gives origin to the main trunk of the arterial system, which vessel, named, the aorta, ascends, forms a curvature, and then descends in the ,«ediastinum posterius; and in the chest, it^gives^ff the intercostal, oesophageal, and bronchial branches.2G5 From the arch of the aorta arise tliree consi- ilerable vessels, viz.—the arteria innominata, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. The left subclavian vein crosses the roots of the vessels, but more espe- cially those of the left carotid, and the arteria innomi- nata ; the b'achea lies between the tvfo carotid arteries, and behind the arteria innominata. The student should pay particular attention to the situation of the arch of the aorta, and the vessels which originate fi-om it; for the arch or curvature is the fi-equent seat of aneiu'ism. When the tumour is large it presses forwards on the upper bone of the sternum, and extremities of the first ribs, and will frequently cause an absox-ption of these structm-es. It presses backwards on the trachea, and oesophagus, hence the difficulty of breathing and deglutition in cases of this kind. There are no positive signs by which incipient aneurism of the arch can be delected, but when the tumour becomes large, it will extend upwards so as to manifest itself by pulsation above the sternum. An aueurismal swelling of tlie curvature, has on this account, been mistaken for aneiu-ism of the arteria innominata, and of the left subclavian ai-teiy. The heart is pretty closely in contact with the surface of the pericardium; a penetrating wound in the caidiac region, therefore, would scarcely iujui-e the latter without the for nier. Wounds of the peri- cardium and heart, are mortal; but not immediately266 so in all cases, for Portal mentions an instance of a soldier who lived fifteen days: the wonnd in this case could not have communicated with either of the cavities. The heart is liable to the same diseases as other organs, but its function peculiarly predisposes it to preternatural dilatation; enlargement therefore is one of the most common morbid conditions of this organ. With the exception of carditis, we are not in posses- sion of any iirfallible means of forming a diagnosis of the diseases of the heart; that is to say, of distinguish- ing one disease from another, by the prevailing symp- toms; and it is so often sympathetically affected as to perplex the judgment of practitioners. Palpitations, frequent faintings, and ii-regixliu-ity of the pulse, are chaiacteristics of troubled circulation; but whether they arise from a disease of the heart itself, or of the vessels, or of the pericardium, or of the lungs, or of the diaphragm, or of the stomach, or of more distant parts; it is not always easy to determine. No diseases are more liable to he confounded with each other, than those of the heart and lungs; the functional relations which subsist between these organs, is such, that one of them cannot be materially deranged in structure, without the other being more or less affected. When the heart is diseased, the function of respiration suf- fers ; and when the lungs are disordered, circulation is embai-rassed. How desirable would it be then to possess a test of the actual seat of disease.267 Percussion of the thorax may enable us now and tlien to detect the presence of fluid in the chest; but it can do no more, and even in this, it is often deceptive. M. Laennec, an ingenious and skilful French Physician, and a pupil of the celebrated Corvisart, has recently proposed a new method of distinguishing the different diseases of the heart and lungs, by means of an acoustic insti'ument, which he calls the " Stethos- cope," of the use of which, a veiy favom able report has been made, by a committee of the Institute, com- posed of M, M. Portal, Pelletan, and Percy. The origin of the idea was this; M. Laennec was consulted in 1816, by a yoimg female, who had some general symptoms of a disease of the heai-t, and in whom the application of the hand, and percussion, gave no satisfactory results, on account of her embonpoint; recollecting the well-known acoustic phenomenon, that if the ear be applied to the end of a beam, one hears distinctly the scratch of a pin at the other end; he imagined, that a useful hint might be drawn from this property of bodies. He took a sheet of paper, and formed a roll of it well secured, of which he ap- plied one end to the region of the praecordia, and placing the ear at the other end, he was as much sur- prized as gratified in hearing the heart beat more clearly and distinctly than he had ever done, by the immediate application of the ear. This discovery led him to make a series of experiments at the Hosjiital168 Necker, the results of which, he has published iu two volumes, under the title " Be V Auscidtatiou Mediate, oit TraiU du Diagnostic des Maladies des Poumuns, et du coeur, Fonde priricipalement snr ce noveau Moijen de V Exploration^'' which has been translated by Dr. Forbes. 31, Laennee gives ample directions for using the stethoscope in exploring the voice, the state of the lunas, &c. &c., but I must refer the student to the work itself, which is well worth perusal; as it con- tains much valuable matter on morbid anatomy. There are some important nerves in the chest, to which the student must attend; they are the par vagum, grand sympathetic, phrenic, and intercostals. The par vagum, sympathetic, and phrenic nerves, are more or less connected by filaments; hence the extreme sympathy, which exists between the heart, Jungs, diaphragm, and stomach, in health and disease. The par vagum are nerves of very considerable importance, and have more engaged the attention of Physiologists than any other pair. The experiments made upon them by Haighton, Dupuytren, Le Gallois, Philips, Brodie, and other modern Physio- logists, are highly interesting. These nerves contri- bute to supply the phai-ynx, larynx, hc;u-t, Imigs, oesophagus, and stomach, with nervous energy; we269 may, therefore, infer what mischief would accrue from theii- continuity heing destroyed. It has been proved, in a satisfactory manner, that if one of these nerves be cut across in the neck, the injury is not always mortal, but that the animal soon dies after the division of both; that if one nerve only be divided, the lungs and stomach are impaii-ed in their functions, but they soon recover them: that the section of both nerves, affects the lai^nx, the heart, the lungs, and stomach; and the animal dies asphyxied. Different explana- tions have, however, been given by different Physio- logists, of the cause of death, after dividing the par vagum; but the post mortem appeai-ances incline us to the opinion that asphyxia is the proximate cause. To prove the influence of the phrenic nerves on the action of the diaphragm, it is only necessary to watch the effects of pricking, ii-ritating, and dividing them. By pricking them with a pin, or scalpel, or irritating them by means of some acrid fluid, the ,muscle contracts. If the nerves be divided, the dia- phragm is paralyzed. The diaphragm, as we have said, is the principal agent in respiration; the other organs are the inter- costal muscles, the abdominal muscles, &c. All these parts are provided with nerves from the spinal marrow. If the spinal maiTOW be divided above the third cer- vical vertebra, the respiratory function is put a stop to. If the division be made low in the neck, the inter-270 costal and abdominal muscles will be paralyzed; but the diaphragm will continue its actions. This fact was known to Galen; for amongst other curious expe- riments, he mentions, that if the spinal marrow be cut at the sixth cervical vertebra, all the parts below the section fall into a state of paralysis, excepting the diaphragm, which moves and supports respiration. These phenomena are easily explained. We have given the most practical and interesting points in the Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology, of the sti-uctures of the thorax. The student may now remove the viscera for more minute dissection; but as he will, by and by, have to attend to the surgical Ana- tomy of the subclavian arteries, he must, in taking away the heart and lungs, leave the arch of the aorta, and its vessels; the vena cava superior; the ti-achea, from a little above its bifurcation into the bronchi; and be careful not to injure the diaphragm, as the particular demonstration of, and practical allusions to this muscle, remain yet to be given.ABDOMEN. The abdomen consists of two parts; the abdo- men, properly so called, and the pelvis. It is a cavity formed, above, by the diaphragm; below, by the soft pai-ts of the outlet of the pelvis; on the fore part, and laterally, by the abdominal muscles; and behind by the lumbar vertebrae, vertebral muscles, and sacrum. The viscera, which the cavity contains, are, the stomach, intestines, liver, pancreas, spleen, kidnies, urinary bladder, some of the organs of generation, • and certain appendages ; all these parts are enveloped ■wholly, or partially, by a serous membrane, called, the peritoneum, which also lines the walls of the abdomen. For the sake of pointing out the situations which the different oi'gans of the belly respectively occupy, Anatomists have divided, and subdivided its parietes into regions. If a Ihie be di*awn transversely, about two fingers' breadth above the umbilicus, we define the upper divi- sion, which is subdivided into three, by di*awing a line on each side, corresponding with the edges of the cartilages of the ribs. The middle of these subdivi- sions is named, the regio epigastrica vel scrobiculus cordis; in which space we find the greater portion of272 the stomach, a part of the left lobe of the livery the panci'eas, the cluodemmi, a part of the omentum minus, the • abdominal aorta, the caeliac artery, the vena cava, the vena portae, and hepatic ducts. The right lateral subdivision is called, the hypochondrium dextrum. It contains the right lobe of the liver, and the gall-bladder. The left lateral, or hypochondi-ium sinistrum, contains a portion of the stomach, and the spleen. The middle division of the abdomen is defined, above, by the transverse line already drawn; and below, by another line, which is to be made about three fingers' breadth below the navel. If then a per- pendicular line be diawn on each side, from ouetrajos- verse line to the other, commencing about an inch on the inner side of each anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; we, have the three regions of this middle division. The centi-al region is named, regio umbi- licalis, and contains the omentum majus, or the prin- cipal portion of it, the arch of the colon, the small intestines, a part of the aorta, and vena cava. The lateral spaces, extending to the vertebra>, may be named, the lumbar regions; in the regio lumbalis dextra, we find the ascending colon, the right kidney, and right capsula renalis; in the regio lumbalis sinistra, the descending colon, the left kidney, and left renal capsule. The remaining part of the abdomen must be273 divided into six reglon<3, if we wish to fix the relation of the internal to the external parts ; these regions are the hypogasti-ic, the two iliac, the pubic, and two inguinal; but the regio pubica, and regiones ingui- nales, we shall mention elsewhere. The regio hypogastrica contains the nrachus, the remains of the umbilical arteries, the inferior portion of the omentum, part of the intestinum ilium, the ter- mination of the aorta, the common iliac arteries, the vena cava, the common iliac veins, and a part of the ureters. In the regio iliaca dextra, the space corres- ponding to the centre of the right ilium, are a portion of the intestinum ilium, and the caecum; and in the female, the right appendages of the womb. In the regio iliaca sinistra, we find the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in lieu of the cfficum; but the other con- tents are similai- to those on the right side. ain: These divisions and subdivisions of the walls of the abdomen, are of extreme importance, as they en- able us to determine what organs are likely to be in- jured by wounds and blows. r )!i!iiWe have here spoken of the relative position of parts, when the body is laid horizontally; but as the viscera change in some measui-e their situation, when the body is erect, we may be deceived in our opinion as to the organ injured, unless we make an allowance for this circumstance. In the vertical position, the 2 M274 liver gravitates and causes the stomach and intestines to descend; hence the inferior part of the belly is more prominent when we stand, sit, or kneel, than when we repose on the back. Portal alludes to the change of situation which the kidnies undergo, when the body is laid on the belly; in this case, they are at a greater distance fi-om the sui-face, a fact very essential to be known in the treatment of wounds and ulcers of these organs. To convince himself of this point, he has several times made piuictures into the lumbar region, and although he thrust the instrujnent to the depth of near three inches, the kidnies were not injm-ed; this explains the account given by Douglas, of his having in consequence of the excessive depth of the kidney, attempted in vain to perform the operation of nephro- tomy. Stones have been extracted tlu'ough fistulaus sores in the loins, but there is not on record a well authenticated instance where a cut Avas made tkrough the healthy skin into the kidney, for the piu-pose of removing calculi from this organ. Position of body, however, is not the only cii-cum- stance which influences the relation of the abdominal viscera, to each other, and to the walls which enclose them. At an early age we observe a remarkable deviation in this respect. In infancy the abdomen is longer and larger in all its dimensions, than at the adult period of life. The diaphragm is less concave towards the belly, and the pelvis smaller; thus the hypochondi-iac regions, and the regions of the pelvis,275 are more contracted : the viscera therefore are more in the middle division of the abdomen. The stomach of the child is not ti-ansversely, but perpendiculai-ly placed, its pyloric exti-emity reaching to the umbilicus. The liver is much larger in the child than in the grown up person, in the former it is situated in the middle tlivision of the belly; in the latter it occupies the left hypochondrium. The position of the urinary bladder too is different; its elongated form causes it, Tvhen distended with lu-ine, to rise considerably out of the pelvic cavity; but all these variations gradually disappear by the progress of age. Having premised thus much on relative position, I shall now proceed with a description of the parietes of the abdomen; the disposition of the fibres of the five pairs of muscles, and the parts formed by their aponeuroses, as linese, ligaments, &c. There are five pairs of muscles on the anterior and lateral parts of the abdominal cavity, which are named according to the direction of their fibres. A line,' drawn from the ensiform caitilage to the sym- physis pubis, in the course of what is called, the iinea alba, denotes the line of demarcation between the muscles of the opposite sides. To begin the dissection, an incision should be made through the integument, from the ciu-tilago ensi-276 formis to the junction of the pubes, and then another lioni the umbilicus obliquely, upwards and outwards, over the cartilages of the ribs; this last incision is in the direction of the obliquus externus abdominis. This muscle is to be carefully dissected in the course of its fibres, and the student will find that they run inwards and downwards to terminate in an expanded tendon, or aponeurosis, the attachments of which towards the iliac, and pubic regions, must be particu- larly attended to. The first attachment to be noticed, is that of the aponeurosis to the anterior superior spi- nous process of the ilium; from this point, the tendon is extended to the inner extremity of the pubis, form- ing Poupart's ligament; and at the pubis, the tendi- nous fibres separate so as to leave a triangular aper- ture, which is called, the external abdominal ring. The other implantation of this muscle, which forms Gimbernat's ligament, will be mentioned when we enter on the particular Anatomy of hernia. We have said, that the muscles of one side of the abdomen meet those on the other, at the linea alba; this line, therefore, is another point into which the external oblique inuscle is inserted. Having reflected the integuments, and exposed the whole of the obliquus externus, the student must observe the umbilicus, the linea alba, the lineae semi- lunares, and linea; transversales. The umbilicus, now and then, yields so as to.cause visceral protrusion. The linea alba is formed by the interlacement of the apo-277 nem-oses of the opposite muscles; it is, therefore, the general point of insertion. The liueae semiliinares are formed by the union of the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, to the aponeuroses of the obliquus internus and transversalis. The lineae transversales are three or four lines, which intersect the recti muscles, and not to be distinctly seen until the anterior part of the sheath of these muscles has been laid open. The student is now to reflect the external oblique muscle towards the linea alba, and underneath he will find the obliquus internus vel ascendens. Some of the fibres of this muscle take an oblique com-se upwards, others proceed almost ti-ansversely across the abdomen, and others descend obliquely towards the pubis. The muscle is inserted fleshy into some of the ribs, and •tendinous into other parts; but the expanded aponeu- rosis in front has this peculiarity; when it reaches the linea semilunaris, it splits into two laminae; one lamina ■goes before the rectus muscle, and under the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique, to the linea alba; the other layer passes to the linea alba, behind the rectus, excepting at the inferior portion of this muscle, where the whole of the tendon is found on the anterior part of the sheath. Under the obliquus internus, the student will find the fibres of the ti-ansversalis passing from the internal surfaces of the cartilages of the inferior libs, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, the crest278 of the ilium, and Poupart's ligament, to their tendi- nous exijansion, which, with the exception of the inferior part, goes to the linea alba, behind the rectus. From the internal oblique and transversalis, some pale fibres go to the spermatic cord, constituting the cremaster muscle. How then is the sheath of the rectus muscle formed? is the question which the student will ask himself; the answer is easy. Dividing the recti mus- cles into fouiths, the upper three-fouiths of their sheaths will have the aponeurosis of the external obli- que, and the anterior layer of the internal oblique on their fore part, and the posterior layer of the internal oblique, and the aponeurosis of the transversalis be- hind. At the inferior fourth, all the aponeuroses pass before the sheath, hence at this part the peritoneum only lines the posterior surface of the recti muscles. The recti muscles are now to be dissected, by turn- ing back the fore part of theii* sheath; the line^ trans- versales will then be fully exposed; and in front of the recti, in the same sheath will be seen the fifth pair of muscles called, from their figure, the pyramidales. If one of the recti muscles be now divided across, and the two extremities reflected, the student wiU be able to observe the peculiar disposal of the aponeiux)ses, by which the muscle is surrounded. It is only from knowing the direction which the fibres take, that any idea can be obtained of the purposes to which the279 abdominal muscles are subservient; they all concur in diminishing the capacity of the chest by pulling down the ribs, as in expiration, and therefore are in respi- ration the antagonists to the diaphragm; they are the auxiliary flexors of the trunk, in which action they antagonise the vertebral muscles; and they all contii- bute to compress the viscera of the abdomen, which compression is necessaiy to the due performance of their respective functions. The organs are constantly compressed, from the walls of the belly having the power of adapting them- selves to the parts which they enclose; to talk there- fore of the cavity of the belly is anatomically incoiTect, whilst the viscera are contained within it. A pointed instrument entering the parietes of the abdomen, would be as liable to wound one or other of the viscera, as an instniment pushed into the chest would be, to wound the Imigs. When by any cause an ati-ophy attacks either of the organs of the abdomen, the mus- cular pai-ietes contract in proportion to the diminution of size, which the organ has undergone. When, on the other hand, the viscera augment in bulk by disease or other causes, the walls yield so as to accommodate, the increase. The abdomen can thus become ex- tremely capacious by collections of fluid, air, &c. Behind the abdominal muscles, is a polished serous membrane, named, peritoneum; it lines the walls, and furnishes a complete or partial envelope to the abdomuial organs.280 The peritoneum consists of two perfect bags, and all the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis are situated behind them. It is no more possible to say, where this membrane begins, and where it ends, than it is to determine the points of commencement and termi- nation in a cii-cle; but we may, for the purpose of following its reflection, imagine such points. There is miich difficulty in conveying an accurate idea of the manner in which the peritoneum covers the different organs of the abdomen and pelvis. In a strictly lateral observation, only a few of its turnings can be shown; but a good notion of them can be given by an oblique deviation fi-om the front view. The" parietes of the abdominal and pelvic cavities ai-e to be imaguied as entii-e, but transparent, so as to admit the viscera to be seen behind them; in con- formity to this idea, the accompanying diagram has been executed; but it must not be considered as strictly correct with respect to relative position and size. In Figure 1, A.—represents the bladder. B.— The rectum. C—The sigmoid flexure of the colon. D.—Tlie small intestines. E.—The descending colon. F.—The left kidney. G.—The transverse arch of the colon. H.—The stomach. I.—The liver. K.—The diaphragm. L.—The pancreas. M. —The duodenum. «._Thc imaginary commencement of the perito-A B I A G M A M of thF ffiEFJL]E(rTJI®N ffif the FlEMITOWElUM,281 neura, at the posterior surface of the recti muscles. —Its reflection over the fundus of the bladder. c.—Its ascent on the rectiun, leaving a pouch between the bladder and rectum, d.—Connexion with the sacrum, and reflection on the walls of the pelvis. e.—Over the sigmoid flexure of the colon, which is bound down to the venter of the left ilium. /.—A portion passing forwards over the small intestines, and after giving a covering to them, returning to the spine to form the mesentery, g.—Its reflection on the descending colon, h.—On the anterior siu'face of the kidney, i.—The membrane running forwards to the transverse arch of the colon, to form the posterior layer of the meso-colon. h.—Posterior layer of the descending portion of the bag of the omentum. I.—The same continued upwards, making the anterior layer of the ascending portion of the bag of the omentum. m.—Its covering to the anterior surface of the stomach. n.—The anterior layer of the omentum minus, o.— Reflection over the convex surface of the liver, p.— On the concave surface of the diaphragm, q.—Its descent on the posterior surface of the recti muscles to meet at (uj, where the larger bag of the jjcritoneum terminates. To demonstrate the smaller bag, the omentum minus must be broken through, we shall then expose the posterior surface of the stomach, the posterior surface of the arch of the colon, the duode- irum, and tlie pancreas. The posterior layer—r.—-of the omentum minus is to be thus followed. —Its contmuation over the posterior surface of the stomach, 2 N282 t The posterior layer of the anterior portion of the bag of the omeutiiin, or epiploon, m.—'It ascends to form the anterior layer of the posterior portion of the bag of the omentum. The membrane continued to cover the anterior surface of the arch of the colon, w.—Ascending portion making the anterior layer of the meso colon, —Continuation over the anterior surface of the duodemmi. ?/.—Over the antei-ior sur- face of the pancreas, sr.—Membrane passing on the inferior concave surface of the liver to its imaginaiy termination at the omentum minus. Figure 2 represents the reflection of the perito- neum over the pelvic viscera in the female; the differ- ence from figui-e \, is caused by the uterus and its appendages being interposed between the bladder and rectum. The bladder. B.—The uterus. C— The rectum. «.—Peritoneum covering the fundus and posterior part of the bladder. b.—A pouch between the bladder and uterus, c—Reflection over the fundus and appen- dages of the uterus. d.—A pouch between the uterus and rectum, e.—Reflection on the rectum. In every other respect the reflection is the same as in the male subject. The viscera of the abdomen not seen in the diagram are, the ccecum, ascending colon, right kid- ney, and spleen. Corresponding to the sigmoid283 flexure of the colon, in the venter of the right Uium, we find the ccecum covered anteriorly, and bound down by peritoneum, like the sigmoid ilexure of the colon ; the ascending portion of the colon is covered like the descending; and the right kidney, like the left. The spleen is connected with the left extremity of the stomach, by that portion of peritoneum which goes over its anterior sm-face, and marked m in the dia- gram, which portion on the right side passes towards the concavity of the liver, to form the anterior lamina of the omentum minus, and on the left side after covering the spleen, it goes to the diaphragm, to connect the spleen and stomach to that muscle. After breaking through the omentum minus to show the smaller sac of peritoneum, it will be seen that the spleen is loosely joined to the pancreas by that portion of the membrane which gives an anterior covering to the pancreas and duodenum, thus it is wholly encircled by peritoneiun. These views of this reflected membrane teach us, that some of the organs of the abdomen are only par- tially, whilst others are completely invested by it. The bladder, rectum, ccecum, kidnies, duodenum, and pancreas are only partially covered, all the rest are wholly so.284 Some anatomical writers have described this membrane as consisting of three parts, a middle, an inferior, and a superior; but this view is objectionable, as it does not give us an exact idea of its continuity. The peritoneum answers two important uses, viz.—to retain the viscera iji their situation, and to secrete a serous fluid, to lubricate the surfaces of the organs, and to prevent their adhesion to each other. The secretive function of this membrane may be af- fected by the same causes as those which affect the pleura. A morbid collection of its fluid is called ascites, and may arise from inflammation, debility, or organic I .disease. The operation of paracentesis is justiiied when the accumulation is so excessive as to occasion- urgent symptoms by its pressure, but it has only a palliative ^ueffect when the diopsy results from visceral disease. The student will now examine the relative posi- tion of the abdominal organs; he will observe the form, the transverse position, the surfaces, the curva- tures, and the extremities of the stomach; the extre- mity in which the oesophagus terminates, is called the cardia; that from which the intestines proceed, is named the pylorus. He will then follow the course of the intestinal canal, consisting of the duodenmn, jeju- num, and ilium, or the small; and the ccecum, colon and rectum, or large intestines. The duodenum is in great measure concealed until it emerges from the285 mesocolon, where it ends. The jejunum and ilium are much alike in their exteraai appearance. The ccecum is remarkable from having an appendage named appendix vermiformis, and a valve, which prevents the retrogade movement of the faeces. The colon consists of the ascending, transverse, descending, and sig- moid portions; this gut nearly surrounds the small intestines. The rectum occupies the venter of the sacrum, to which it is attached by peritoneum. In the liver, the student will observe the ligaments, and fom* lobes, viz.—the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobulus Spigelii, and the lobulus quadratus ; also the situation of the gall-bladder and the porta; he wiU eJtpose the parts contained in Gisson's capsule, viz.— the hepatic artery, the venaportae, the ductus hepaticus, the ductus cysticus, the ductus commimis choledochus and nerves; and afterwards he will cut into the sub- stance of the liver, in order to obseiTe its parenchyma. ■ . The pancreas is next to be noticed; the duct will be found in its centre, and if a probe be introduced , into lit, the instrument will pass into the duodenum, by the orifice common to it, and the ductus communis choledochus, or by a distinct aperture. ' The spleen is the remaining chylo-poietic organ, and is situated at the left exti-emity of the stomach. Having examined the structure of the stomach,286 intestinal canal, liver, pancreas, and spleen, the stu- dent will acquaint himself with the situation of the kidnies, ureters, and urinary bladder; this last organ is situated in the pelvis, where it is connected with the rectum in the male, and with the uterus, and its appendages, in the female. All the abdominal organs derive their arterial blood from arteries coming off from the aorta. The caeliac supplies the stomach, liver, pancreas, and spleen; the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries supply the small and large intestines; and the renal, or emulgent, furnish blood to the kidnies. The nerves are derived from the par vagum, and grand sympathetic; plexuses are fomid near the origin of the arteries, and from these the nerves pass off to the different organs. All the viscera of the abdomen are liable to in- flammation, and its consequences, but some of them are subject to particular morbid changes. Inflammation may be occasioned by a variety of causes, but some organs are exposed to it from situa- tion, and function. The stomach, for example, from being the receptacle of what we eat and drink, is more susceptible of being abused than any other organ, and with truth it may be asserted, that it is the nursei-y of more diseases, than any other viscus.287 If we have studied the characteristics of inflam- mation in general, we shall seldom be at a loss in detecting its presence; but inflammation of certain organs offers varieties which must be understood. The state of the pulse is in most cases a criterion; but there are exceptions to this rule. In gastritis and enteritis the pulse is unlike to that in hepatitis; in the two first, it is small and frequent; in the last, tense and strong; but in both these cases, copious depletion is indicated. The pain too varies according to the seat of inflammation, particularly in such organs as the liver, and lungs. When the investing membrane is affected, the pain is much more acute, than when the parenchyma, or substance of the organ, is the seat of disease; the unyielding and compact nature of membranous structure is probably the cause of this fact. In parenchymatous inflammation the pain is dull and heavy, and this is the symptom which marks the difference betvveen it, and inflammation of the envelo- ping membrane. ' A change of structure in the mesenteric glands, accompanied by obstruction, is productive of a morbid phenomenon, of much importance to be known. We have said, in another part of the volume, that the lacteals, in theii- course from the small intestines to the thoracic duct, pass through these bodies; it is obvious then, that if they should be disorganized, and obstructed by disease, the nourishing product of the288 aliment cannot be transmitted to tlie blood, and miras- mtis, or emaciation, must ensue, because the system cannot be supplied with its due and proper support. This explains the common characteristics of tabes mesenterica. Before the student removes the chylo-poietic viscera for more minute examination, he should reflect on the relations of the liver, stomach, and spleen, to the diaphragm ; and how the oi-gans of the chest and abdomen may thus be reciprocally aftected. " '' In inspii-ation, the diaphragm descends, so as to enlarge the capacity of the thorax; this descent proi duces a change in the situation of the liver, stomach, and spleen, but more especially of the right lobe of the liver. This organ, we have said, also descends by its own weight, when the body is erect, or iu the sitting posture. In exploring its diseases then, we should bear these facts in mind, and make the exami- nation when the patient is sitting, or standing; allow-^ ances being given for that encroachment of the livei^ on the abdomen, which position and inspiration occasion. When the liver, or spleen is much enlarged, it" prevents, in some measure, the descent of the diaphragm and difficulty of breathing, is the resiUt. On the other hand, the diaphragm may be pressed downwards, ahT prevented from ascending by a collection of water iri289 tbe chest; in this case, the liver would be ijrojected,' and be more distinct to the touch, than in its natural state. These circumstances, which mechanically alter the position of the organs in connection with the dia- phragm are of great importance. Having taken away the abdominal viscera, (the urinary organs, 'and rectum excepted,) the student will dissect the diaphragm. After stripping oflf the peritoneum which covers it, he will find the muscular fibres radiating to a tendinous centre, this is the larger muscle; the smaller lies on the sides of the bodies of tbe last dorsal, and the three or four lumbar vertebrje, and passing towards the same centre as the larger muscle, form, what are called the crui-a, or pillars of the diaphragm. The diaphragm is pierced with three openings, viz.—one opening for the passage of the aorta; another on the right side for the vena cava; and a third for the oesophagus. The arteries of this muscle are the ijhrenic, which are branches of the aorta; the nerves we have already considered. , The pectoral surface of the diaphragm is inti- mately united to the pericardium, and the pleura, by which it is separated fi'om the heart and lungs. Its 2 o290 abdominal part is connected, more or less, with the liver^ stomach, spleen, pancreas, duodenum, and kidnies. Its physiological relations are exceedingly numerous; it is the principal agent in respiration; it assists circu- lation, digestion, absorption, and other functions; and possesses exquisite sensibility, and sympathy. Its pathological reports are not less numerous or less im- portant: many of these reports have been already spoken of. How essential the regulai- and uninterrupted functions of the diaphragm are to the health of the body, may be inferred fi-om the exalted character which it held amongst the ancients, who considered this muscle, the heart and brain,: as the triumvirate of human life. '.' The student will now turn his attention to the Pelvis, its contents, and parts in connection with them, for in their practical references they are in many respects liistinct fi-om the viscera of the abdqpien. The bony structure of the pelvis must first be studied; it is a point of necessity which cannot be too urgently enforced. If midwifery be the object of inquii-y, a knowledge of the bones of the pelvis, and of the dimensions of its different parts, is the inti-o- duction to that science. In the performaaice of one of the most serious operations in sui'gerj', the291 prominent points about the outlet of this cavity, serve as guides. In cutting for the stone, we feel for the arch of the pubes, begin the incision juSt below it, and extend it downwards midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium; the arch of the pubes, and tuber ischii are fixed points, and easily felt under their soft covering, and in a general way the Surgeon cannot do wrong, if he governs his first incision by them. The bony pelvis has an articulatory surface above, ibr the last lumbar vertebra, and two hollows or sockets below, for receiving the heads of the thigh bones. There is an expansion formed by the ilia; ie&w that a conti'action called the brim; then a cavity; and lastly the outlet. In the adult, the pelvis is composed of four bones, viz.—the sacrum, os coccygis, and two ossa innominata. In the young subject, each OS innominatum consists of thi'ee distinct portions of bone, the iliac, ischiatic, and pubic; but by age the three portions become one. The connection of the bones of the pelvis to the spine, and to each other, is rendered firm by strong ligaments. The junction of the sacrum to the ilium on each side, is called the saci-o-iliac symphysis; that of the pubes on the fore part, the symphysis pubis. The bones are so firmly bound together, as to preclude almost the possibility of dislocation. A weight (as the wheel of a loaded carriage) might separate the junc-292 tion between the sacrum and ossa innominata, and flatten the bones; but a fracture would be likely to occur at the same time. The danger of this accident would be in proportion to the injury, which the pelvic viscera sustained by the crush. After the student has made himself acquainted with the prominent parts of the pelvis, he must observe its axis with regard to the trunk, and that of its brim, cavity, and outlet with respect to each other, for the viscera partake of the same bearing as the cavity in which they lie. He must then notice the changes which take place in its axis, in the different positions of the body, as when the body is erect; when the thighs are partially bent; apd when approximated to the ab- domen as in the position of the patient for lithotomy; it will be found that these different postures vary the position of parts in a notable degree.- When the Sui-geon ties the legs of his patient, and bends them towards the abdomen, the axis of the pelvis, and that of the trunk, are brought nearly to correspond: eveiy deviation from this position causes a change of axis; and when the thighs and legs are extended, the pelvis is placed at a considerable apgle. The soft parts which line the pelvic cavity, ai-e the next subject of inquiry ; some of them can be shown without interfering with the viscera ; but those of the outlet must be examined in another stage of the dissection. . i-293 r, The fossse of the ilia are occupied by the iliaci iuterni muscles; and each iliacus tendon passes over the fore pait of the pelvis, to be implanted into the trochanter minor of the thigh-bone. On the inner side of this muscle, is seen the psoas magnus, which arises from the sides and ti-ansverse processes of the last dorsal and four first lumbar vertebrae, and descends to be inserted into the ti-ochanter minor. The iliacus internus, and psoas magnus, ai-e covered by a thin aponeui-otic membrane, named, the fascia iliaca, which will be spoken of at another time, as contributing to form the sheath of the femoral vessels ; and over this membrane, we find the peritoneum. In addition to the use which these muscles have in bending the thigh On the trunk, they aiford a cushion-like support to the ifltestines, and the gravid uterus in the female, lujjioii riyd V/Certain arteries, veins, and nerves, must now be V Noticed. The common iliac arteiy and veui are seen l.at the inner edge of the psoas muscle; they soon divide into the internal and external iliac branches. alb <LThe student should observe the situation of the common iliac, which has been tied by Dr. Stevens. This operation might be rendered necessary by aneu- - rism of either of the branches of the internal iliac, or of i the -trunk of the external iliac, when the tumour . extends to the origin of the vessel. On the iliacus internus, aud psoas magnus, are294 some twites of nerves, which pass out under Poupart's ligament to supply the upper part of the thigh; they are principally cutaneous branches. The anterior ci-m-al nerve must be next exposed, and its course followed. The dissection of the obturator nerves, and others, must be deferred until the pelvic organs have been examined; they ought then to be looked for, as a knowledge of their origin, course, and disti-ibuticn, assists us in explaining the numbness, pain, and cramp, in the thighs and legs^ during the progress of parturition, and why, in the different stages of labour, the painful sensations are refeired to diiferent situations. In the male subject, the cavity of the pelvis is less capacious than in the female, as it contains fewer organs. Anteriorly is seen the nrinai-y bladder, which is attached to the pubes before, and situated in the pubic region. When empty, the fundus, or uppei; part of this organ, is nearly on a level with the upper edge of the ossa pubes; when distended, it rises in the pelvis; and at its utmost distension, it reaches nearly to the umbilicus. Behind the bladder is the rectum, which takes the curve of the hollow of the sacrum; and between the bladder and rectum, is a pouch, formed by peritoneum. The student knows, from the view which we have before given of this membrane, that after leaving the recti muscles, it passes over the fundus, and posterior surface of the bladder, to near Its cervix; it then ascends over the fore part of the295 rectum, and attaches this portion of intestine to the venter sacri, by a process called meso-rectum. The neck of the bladder, then, and inferior part of the rectum, are not covered with peritoneum; there is left a triangular space, the apex of which is formed by the prostate gland, and the sides by the vesiculae seminales; it is in this space that we puncture the bladder from the rectum, in retention of urme, where less formidable means have been had recourse to with- out effect. The opening is made in a dependent situa- tion, and without the risk of wounding the peritoneum. The perinaeum is now to be dissected. In reflect- ing the integuments, the student must pay attention to the dense fascia of tlus part, which is the cause of the disti-essing consequences of a suppuration in perinaeo, and explains why abscesses, in this situation, are so mucti disposed to become fistulous. When matter forms, it cannot easily determine itself to the surface, on account of the great thickness of the anterior wall of the abscess; the pus, therefore, burrows amongst the loose cellular membrane, and gives rise to extensive mischief. To obviate this effect, it is required that we should make an early opening with a lancet. Having exposed the muscles of the perinaeum, the arteries, the bulb of the m-ethra, the membranous por- tion of the canal, the prostate gland, and the connec- tion of all these parts to the rectum; the student must apply his Anatomy to surgical purposes. He must296 reflect on the infiltration of urine in the ceUular mem- brane of the perinaeum, as being not an unfrequent cause of death after lithotomy; he must consider the parts to be cut in the lateral operation for stone, and the stages of the process; the new proposal, by M. Sanson, of cutting from the rectum into the bladder, which operation he calls the "recto vesical"; the operation of punctm-ing the bladder, from the rectum, for the discharge of urine in case of unmanageable obsti-uction in the natural pa:ssage; the nature of fistula, in periuajo; fistula in ano ; diseases of the rectum; and the treatment which they respectively require. Another examination of the pelvic viscera may now be made, by separating the left os innominatum at the sacro iliac junction, and sawing through the pubis, at a little distance from the symphysis; by thus removing one side of the pony pelvis, we obtain a lateral view. When the bladder is partially inflated from the ureter, and the rectum stuffed with hair or tow, the relation of these parts to others, will be more clearly seen. The ureter will be observed descending to the bladder; the vesicula seminalis lying neai- its cervix; the vas deferens passing downwards; the prostate gland sm-rounding the neck of the bladder; the mem- branous pai-t of the uretlu-a beyond it; and the tui-n- ings of the peritoneum can now be easily traced over the bladder and rectum.297 Let the student now examine the urinary and •{genital organs in a particular manner. He should observe the form and stiucture of the bladder, the ter- mination of the ureters obliquely between its coats, the inteinal orifice of the urethra, the prostate gland, ajiid . the structure and appearances of the urethra -throughout its whole course, -,; •„ The uretlira extends from the neck of the bladder .:to the extremity of the penis; not in a straight, but ^Gjjrved line. From its commencement, it proceeds i(4pwnwards and forwards through the prostate gland, and under the symphysis pubis. It afterwards passes through the spongy body to the extremity of the penis. In the first place, it is in the prostate gland ; then in the membranous part; and lastly, in the corpus spon- .,gio8um. The prostatic portion of the canal is about ,.qne inch in length; the membranous the same; and .the spongy, about seven inches; nine inches being the usual length of the uretlu-a. The canal is not of the same size throughout its whole extent. It is ...^ilated near the bladder; contracted in the prostate; ..gtill more contracted in the membranous portion; rdilated in .the glajis; and contracted again at the orificium urethrze. , o/.iix ., ,, On slitting up the urethra, we find it lined with a . joaucous membrane, and we expose the large lacunse, .jaear the glans, which furnish the morbid secretion discharged i|x gonorrhcea; and the verumontanum, 2 P298 near which, the ducts of the vesiculae seminales, vasa deferentia, and prostate gland open. It is necessary that the cui-vatures of the urethra should be known; also the situation of the dilated and contracted parts of it: the curvatures, in order that we may give to a catheter the proper bend; the dilatatibns and contrac- tions, in order to avoid mistaking a natural for a morbid straightening of the passage, an error which has occasionally happened. We might with propriety make, in this place, some observations on the inti-o- duction of the catheter, sound, and bougie; but in a general way, the operation only requii-es a know- ledge of the Anatomy of the ui-ethra, to ensure its easy accomplishment. If a comparison be made between the pelvis of the male, and that of the female, obvious differ- ences will be seen, both in capacity and form. The ilia are more expanded in the latter, the brim is more oval, the cavity more capacious, and the outlet larger; but the depth of the pelvis is less in the female subject than in the male. In an obstetilc point of view, it is necessary to bear in mind the depth of the pelvic cavity in its different parts; behind, it measures in the standard pelvis, from five to six inches; anteriorly, about two inches; and laterally, from three inches and a half to four inches. In the dimensions given of the brim, cavity, and outlet, the student shotild consider whether it is under-299 stood that they are taken without, or with the soft parts of the pelvis. At Lectiu-es on Midwifery, the measurements arc demonsti-ated on the dry bones, and the Lecturer states what they are in that condition of paj-ts; but it is to be remembered, that if the pelvis measures from the top of the sacrum to the symphysis pubis, four inches and a half, or four and three quar- ters, in the dried state, the presence of the soft parts would reduce the dimension one inch, or more. The standard pelvis measiu-es at the brim, from sacrum to pubes, about four inches and a half without the soft parts, and about three inches and a half with them. From one linea ileo-pectinea to the other, about five inches and a quarter without, but not more than four with the soft parts ; the longest diameter of the brim then, is from side to side: in the outlet it is reversed, for the shortest diameter is from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other; the distance being about four inches and a half without, and four with the soft parts. From the extremity of the os coccygis to the under edge of the symphysis pubis, we have full five inches and a half in the diy bones, and about five in the recent subject; but we may consider this distance as capable of being increased in young females, in consequence of the mobility of the coccyx. The dimensions of the foetal head, at the full period of utero gestation, are, in a general way, as follow: The longest line is from the vertex, or crown of300 the head to the chin, which is from five inches, to five and a quarter. A line drawn from the forehead to the upper part of the occiput, will measure about four inches and a half. The shortest line is iiom the pro- tuberance of one parietal bone to the other, which is not more than three inches, It will be obvious by this comparison of the admeasurements of the pelvis, and the child's head, that there is ample room for the latter to pass through the apertures of the former, without the least com- pression of the bones; but how is the delivery accom- plished when the pelvis measures, from sacrum to pelvis, very much less than natural ? Dr. Merriman tells us, in his " Synopsis of Dif- ficult Parturition;'' that Dr. Osborne, who took great pains in investigating the best method of proce- dure in cases of distorted pelvis, considers that a foetus, at full matmity, cannot pass alive, if the dimensions of the pelvis, from the pubes to the projection of the sacmn, be only two inches and three quarters; and Dr. Clarke, of Dublin, says, that three inches and a quarter, from the pubes to the sacrum, is die least diameter through which he has known a full-grown foetus to pass entire; but as it has been ascertained by Dr. Hamilton, that children have been born living, through a pelvis in which this diameter was " mani- festly under three inches," it is necessai7 that practi- tioners of midwifery should be very much upon their guai-d against being deceived in their estimate of the301 actual dimensions. Let, however, three inches be the space through which a foetal head can pass, and we shall be able to form a pretty good idea of the pressure which the bones of the cranium must experience, and of the diminution in size which the whole head must undergo, in order to be propelled through the aper- tures of the pelvis. We may infer, from these facts, how desirable it is, that we should possess the means of judging whether there is sufficient space in the pelvis for the head to pass, without that artificial assistance which is incompatible with the life of the child: instruments, called pelvimeters, have been in- vented for the purjjose, but they are uncertain, and therefore seldom used in this country; we must subf scribe to the opinion of the able Accoucheiu's, Haigh- ton and Burns, that the hand is the best pelvimeter; the size of the pelvis being determinable with tolerable accuracy, by the number of fingers that can be passed into its different parts. The female pelvis is a subject which might lead us to extend our remarks; but the reader must consult Works exclusively devoted to the obstetric art. I must here recall to the student's recollection, the observations which we made on the soft parts bounding the pelvic cavity; they apply equally to the female as to the male subject; but in the viscera there is a difference. The organs of the pelvis in the female are, the urinary bladder, the uterus and its appendages, and the rectum.302 The bladder is situated in the fore part; the rec- tum, in the back part; and the internal organs of generation, between the two; and this intervention of the vagina, uterus, and its appendages, constitutes the principal difference between the pelvic viscera of the male, and those of the female. The reflection of the peritoneum may be followed over the bladder, as in the male subject. When it reaches the inferior pail of that organ, it ascends over the anterior face of the vagina and uterus, leaving a sort of pouch between the bladder and the womb; it ihen expands, to form the ligamenta lata, in which the fallopian tubes and ovaria are involved; and afterwards it gives the pos- terior face of the uterus and vagina a covering. The membrane then ascends upon the anterior face of the rectum, and spreads into two lateral folds. Between the uterus and rectum, a pouch is formed, similar to that between the bladder and womb, but it is much more distinct. The student wUl now understand a difficulty occa- sionally occurring to the passing of the catheter, viz.— a diversion of the urethra from its natural course. From the attachments between the viscera of the pelvis, by peritoneum, it is plain, that any thing which could cause a change in the natural position of the womb, would also tend to alter more or less the posi- tion of the bladder. When the uterus, dui-ing gesta- tion, rises in the abdomen, the bladder is earned upwards, and forwards; hence the urethra, instead of303 being nearly horizontal, becomes preternaturally curved. On the contrary, the uterus, instead of rising, sometimes falls, as in prolapsus and inversio uteri, in which cases the urethra is dragged in a direc- tion downwards. Other circumstances may occasion a distoition of the urethra, as malformed pelvis, extreme corpulency, &c.; the cause must lead us to suspect the course which the urethra has taken, and the introduction of the catheter performed accordingly. A side view of the pelvic viscera in the female is to be obtained in the same way as in the male; the urinary bladder is to be inflated, and the vagina and rectum stuffed with hair, or tow. The student will observe the ureter on the left side; the bladder, behind the pubes; the uterus, its appendages, and vagina, behind the bladder; and the rectum, posterior to the whole. In this view of parts, the remarkable inflec- tions of the peritoneum will be very apparent. The urethra will be observed to be about one inch in length, and in its course under the arch of the pubes, to describe a slight ciu-vature, the concavity of which is upwards. The meatus urinarius, or external opening, is situated just under the symphysis pubis, and a little above the orificium vaginae. At its extre- mity, it has a button-like projection, which, in the the living subject, is perceptible to the touch; but in304 the dead, moie flaccid and indistinct. This is the opportunity for the student to practice catheterism in the female, a most delicate operation, and in which the tactus eruditus is the only guide permitted us. Lithotomy in the female consisted, formerly, in cutting the urethra hy means of a probe-pointed bis- touiy directed on a staff, previously introduced into the bladder; but this operation is likely to be super- seded by that of dilatation; the urethra haTmg been found susceptible of considerable extension, by pres- sure exerted ou its side. An ingenious instrument for the purpose has been invented by Blr. "Weiss, in the Sti-and, at the suggestion of Sir Astley Cooper; and iin the Twelfth Volume of the " Medico-Chirurgical Transactions;'' a Paper will be found, by Sir Astley, ;giving an account of operations in which the dilator was successfully employed. As the student has examined the parietes of the abdomen, and the relative position of the contents, he will be induced to consider the nature and conse- quences • of wounds. On the abdomen receiving a stab with a sharp instrument, what are the circumstances which should lead the Surgeon to form a judgment on the mischief which has been produced, and the probable issue of the case? The first thing to be considered, is the depth of the wound; if it be superficial, that is, if305 confined to the walls of the abdomen merely, we have less to fear than if the instrument had penetrated the cavity; for in this case the peritoneum would be injured, and most probably some of the viscera; but we are not too hastily to pronounce a favoui'able prog- nosis, even in Avounds not communicating with the cavity. If the integument only be incised, or punc- tured, the accident is trivial, and need not excite any alarm ; but when the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles suffer, the case is alarming, as we know that injiu'ies of tendinous structures are not easily repaired. The issue may be inflammation, suppui'ation, and sloughing; if matter forms, it will burrow behind the aponeuroses, and we can now easily predict the conse- quences unless an exit is given to it by an artificial opening. The sti'ucture then of the anterior part of the parietes of the belly, renders the event of wounds of this part more dangerous than superficial wounds of the chest, and of almost equal danger with those of the coverings of the cranium. If the instrument has pierced the peritoneum, (and the viscera, by good fortune, have escaped injury), we have to apprehend, in addition to the preceding effects, that the peritoneum will inflame ; and that the inflammation will spread from the lining to the reflected portions of this membrane : we have here very formi- dable circumstances to combat; but these circum- stances are still more serious, vv^hen complicated with visceral wounds, fbr they may give rise to extravasa- '2 Q306 tion of blood in the abdominal cavity, or other fluids, as chyme, chyle, faeces, bile, or urine, according to the natural contents of the wounded organ. I shall not enter on the symptoms which charac- terize wounds of the diflTerent abdominal viscera; but the student must make himself acquainted with them, and the most approved methods of treatmentON THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. In order thoroughly to understand the relative situation of the soft parts of the upper extremity, cer- tain preparatory information is necessary, and this I shall, in a brief way, put the student in possession of. The soft parts are more or less connected with hard ones, and the muscles act upon the bones through the medium of joints ; a knowledge of the bones and joints should therefore precede any other inquiry. Two bones enter into the composition of the shoulder, viz.—the clavicle, and scapula ; the clavicle is attached at one extremity to the sternum and first rib; at the other, to the acromion scapulae; and it forms .an arch over the nerves and vessels going to the axilla. The scapula is confined to the trunk, posteriorly, by means of muscles only. The clavicle, and edges of the shoulder-blade, are to be felt through their cover ings, so too are the spine, coracoid process, ai|d acromion of the latter bone ; thus, a derangement froifi finacture or dislocation is easily riecog^iised. The shoulder-joint jis formed by the scapula aijd OS humeri.308 It is of the orbicular, in other words, of the ball aud socket kind. The glenoid cavity of the scapula is shallow, the head of the os humeri large; hence they ai-e not so closely fitted to each other, as the caput fenioris is to the acetabulum. It is this cii-cum- stance, in a great measure, which gives to the shoul- der-joint its great extent of motion, and to it is owing its liability to dislocation; for great freedom, and great strength of articulation are not compatible with each other. The shoulder-joint has-a capsular ligament only; this, however, is sti-engthened by the aponeu- rotic expansions of the muscles of the scapula. The tendons of the supra spinatus, infra spiuatus, subsca- pularis, and teres minor muscles, are spread upon the capsular ligament; and but for this, the os humeri would be much more frequently dislocated than it is. What serves additionally to prevent this accident, is the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, which passes through the joint on its fore part. lii the dry bone the glenoid cavity is very super- ficial, but in the recent subject it will be observed to be less so; for around the edge of the cavity a liga- mento-cartilaginous substance projects, by which the socket is deepened the eighth of an inch or more It is contended by some Surgeons, tbat the os ^''humeri may be completely dislocated in four direc- tions, viz.-upwards, downwards, forwards, and back- wards, but Su- Astley Cooper mentions the three last309 only ; if the first, or dislocation upwards should hap-- pen, it must undoubtedly be complicated with fi-acture of the acromion process of the scapula, seeing tha that process advances considerably over the vipper pai-t of the joint. The arm consists of one bone, the os humeri, Avhich has a rounded head above; and an irregular extremity below, formed by the projecting condylesj and the articular surface for the ulna, which is be- tween them. The other remarkable points of this bone are supposed to be understood by the student. The elbow-joint is of the hinge-like description, and capable only of flexion and extension. The hume- rus terminates in an articidatoiy surface, on which the ulna plays; and on the outer side of the ulna, is the radius, or other bone of the fore-arm, the head of which is applied to the extreme point of the external condyle of the humerus. The ligaments of the elbow- joint are strong; there is an external lateral, an inter- nal lateral, an oblique, and a capsulai-; besides these, there are ligaments connecting the radius to the ulna. The movements of the former bone on the latter are called, pronation, and supination; pronation, when the palm of the hand is turned downwards; supina- tion, when turned upwards. The elbow-joint is also strenthened by the tendons of muscles; thus behind, we find the expanded tendon of the tnceps, which is attached to the olecranon process of the ulna; and on310 the fore part is the brachialis internus, which is attached to the coronoid process, and the body of the bone. Notwithstanding the great strength of the elbow articulation, it is occasionally dislocated. The most common dislocation is backwards. A lateral one, now and then occurs; but a dislocation forwards cannot happen without a fracture of the olecranon ulnae. The fore-arm is composed of two bones; the radius, and ulna, which are united together, through- out nearly the whole of their length, by the inter- osseous ligament. The radius must be considered as the only bone of the fore-arm which enters into the composition of the wrist-joint, it is applied to the lunar and scaphoid bones: the joint of the inferior extremity of the ulna is quite distinct from that of the wrist. The ligaments of the carpal-joint are, the two lateral, the anterior, the posterior, and the capsular. Dislocation may take place either backwards, forwards, inwards, or outwards, and either one, or both bones may be displaced. The carpus has eight bones; the metacarpus, five; the fingers, three; and the thumb only two. Between the first and second row of carpal-bones, there exists a perfect joint, with a capsulai- and other ligaments. The bones of the carpus are joined to those of the metacarpus by capsular, and iulerosseal311 ligaments. The digital joints have a capsular, and lateral ligaments. About the wrist, there are bursas mucosae, con- nected with the sheaths of tendons ; the disease, called ganglion, consists in a preteraatural accumulation of the natural secretion of the lining membrane of the bursa; and the carpus is a part of the body where this disease more commonly occurs, than any other. We are to be careful not to mistake one of these swellings for anemism. Mr. Burne has given a case in the Sixty-seventh Number of the *' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, where this happened. The tumour was situated precisely in the course of the radial artery, it had an evident and general pulsation, and entirely disappeai-ed on the application of firm pres- sure; but on the removal of the pressure, it re-assumed its former size. Mr. Burne, and other Medical Men, pronounced it an aneurism. Subsequent examination, however, convinced them that the tumour was a ganglion, and that its gradual enlargement had raised the arteria radialis from its natural situation; the latte^ being found, on an attentive inspection, to pass over the swelling. These are the prefatory remarks which I deem essential prior to entering on the muscles, blood- vessels, and nerves. They may appear to the student as premature, as he cannot examine the joints until the muscles are removed; but I would ask, can he312 understand the actions of muscles -without a previous knowledge of the mechanism of the joints ? Certainly not; he must therefore avaU himself of the means which eveiy dissecting-room affords, to gain the necessary preliminary information. Before commencing the dissection, the stu- dent should familiarize himself with the relation of the hard to the soft pai-ts. He can easily trace the clavicle from its sternal to its scapular extre- ,mity. Behind the clavicle, is the first rib, over which the subclavian artery passes; and in a depression under the scapular end of the collar-bone, the artery may be compressed so as to command the circulation of the blood in the arm. The acromion scapula? is superficial. The head of the os humeri may be felt by ■tlie fingers, in the axilla, when the ami is raised. The condyles of the os humeri, and the olecranon ulnae are prominent points at the elbow-joint, and the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, at the wrist. By knowing the natural situation of these hard part-s, the student acquires the means of detecting injuries of joints. I do not think it necessai^ to give a description of the origins, insertions, and individual uses of the muscles of the extremities, for it cannot be expected that this volume should supply the place of a JNIajiual of Dissections, for the aim of it is different; but after the student has exposed and dissected them, the.313 Ibllowing" remarks on their conjoint actions mnst be attended to. From the manner in which the clavicle and scapula are articulated, it is obvious that they can be raised, or depressed, pulled forwards, or drawn back- wards. The muscles which raise them are, the levator scapulae, and the superior fibres of the trapezius; those which depress them are, the pectoralis minor, sub- clavius, and serrattis magnus; and they serve to pull them forwards. Those which di-aw the scapula, con- sequently the clavicle backwards, are, the rhomboidei, and transverse fibres of the ti*apezius; and by its influence ou the os brachii, the latissimus dorsi would contribute rather powerfully to produce this motion. These four actions may be called direct, because there are specific muscles to perform them; but there are others of a combined nature; that is to say, requiring for their performance, a combination or alternation of forces; thus, if two opposite muscles act at the same time, the clavicle and scapula would neither be drawn in one direction, nor in the other, but would be inter- mediately fixed, if the actiug muscles be equally anta- gonized: the conjoint actions of muscles produce what may be called compound movements. If there be an alternate action of muscles, the bones jjartially revolve upon their axis; the scapula is i-aised by the upper fibres of the trapezius and levator scapulae, and depressed by the serratus niujor anticus; thus, these muscles are rotators of the scapula. 2 R314 The shoulder-joint has a veiy extensive degree of motion, from the scapula affording a veiy superficial lodgement for the head of the os humeri. We can caiTy the arm forwards, which is called extension; backwards, flexion; from the trunk, abduction; towards the trunk, adduction; and the os humeri may be made to revolve, which is called rotation. When we carry the arm forwai-ds, the pectoralis major, the anterior portion of the deltoides, the coraco brachidis, the subscapulaiis, and the biceps, are called into action. When in an opposite direction, the posterior fibres of the deltoides, the latissimus dorsi, teres major, teres minor, and triceps, act. Abduction is performed by the deltoides, and the supra and mfi-a spinati muscles. Adduction, by the pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi. Rotation inwards, by the sub- scapularis, anterior fibres of the deltoid muscle, latis- simus dorsi, and teres major; and rotation outwards, by the posterior fibres of the deltoid muscle, the mfra spinatus, and teres minor. The elbow-joint is hinge-like, and capable only of flexion and extension. The flexors are, the biceps, and brachialis interims. The extensors are, the triceps, and anconeus. But the radius moves upon the ulna, producing the motions called pronation and supination. The pronators are, the pronator teres, pronator quadi-atus, and flexor carpi radiahs The supinators are, the biceps, supinator radii longus, supinator radii brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pol- licis, and extensor primi et ^cundi internodii poflicis.315 The motions of the wrist are, flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. The flexor muscles are on the anterior part of the bones; the extensors, on the posterior part; the Ibl'tors, on the radial side; and the adductors, on the ulnar side of the fore-arm. The thumb can be moved more extensively than the fingers, but not in more directions. The mot^ons of both are, flexion, extension, abduction, and ad- Auction. , The student is now to apply what he has learnt ■ :,:^f the actions of muscles to the explanation of those .Zigns of fraettn-es which are ftunished by deformity of ,,tlimb, or displacement. When the clavicle is broken, we discover the "nature of the accident by observation on the form of the shoulder, and by passing the fingers along the body of the bone, which will present an irregularity ; this is occasioned by the extremity of the internal fragment projecting above the external one; it is not, however, the inner, but the outer fragment that is dis- placed, and Anatomy tells us why it is so. Above the inner portion, is the attachment of the sterno cleido mastoideus muscle, and opposite to it, below, is the origin of a paxt of the pectoralis major. If either the clavicular poition of the sterno cleido, or that of the316 pectoralis major, were to contract alone, the fragment would be drawn upwards, or downwards, according to the muscle that is in action; but when both act at the same time, the bone is fixed at an intermediate point, in accordance with a well known law in mus- cular motion; and this is one of the reasons why the inner fragment is stationary; but there is another cause arising from the clavicle being joined to the sternum, and first rib, by means of strong ligaments ; hence the security is two-fold. I.et the student now cany his observation to the outer fragment, and he will find adequate reasons for its displacement. The clavicle is the chief support of the upper extremity; consequently, when broken, the arm falls, and carries the scapular exti'emity of the clavicle along with it; the fi-agment is thus lowered, and it is then drawn inwards by the subclavius muscle; these ai-e amongst the signs which indicate a fractui-ed collar-bone, and there is no difficulty in explaining them, after the ligaments and muscles, connected Avith the bone, have been properly examined. When the acromion scapuliE is fractured, the rotundity of the shoulder is lessened, and the form of it changed, because the arm falls, the deltoid muscles, or those fibres which arise from the acromion process^ pull the fragment downwards, and the levator sca- pula;, and upper portion of the trapezius muscle, elevate the body of the scapula.317 To restore the acromion to its natural situation, the deltoid, and the other muscles, must be relaxed. The sign which denotes a fracture of the coracoid process, is an inclination of the arm foi-wards, and downwai-ds; the pectoralis minor muscle, which is inserted into the fragment, and the short head of the biceps and coraco brachialis, which take theii- origin fi'om it, are the agents of displacement. t ' "When the inferior angle of the scapula is broken thi-ough, the portion is di-awn forwai-ds by the action of the serratus major anlicus muscle. : ;i .When an oblique fracture happens at the upper part of the os humeri, above the insertions of the pec- toralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles, it is easy to conceive what the derangement would be. The muscles just alluded to, from being implanted into the lower fragment, would pull it inwards, and the teres major would di-aw it a little upwards. Should the bone be bi-oken lower down, the displacement would be much less, owing to the firm attachment of the brachialis internus, both above, and below the fractui-e on the fore part, and that of the triceps on the back part of the os humeri. Occasionally, the olecranon ulnae is snapped off by the spasmodic contraction of the triceps muscle; but it is more frequently fractured by a direct blow.318 When this accident occurs, the elbow is thrown into a state of flexion, and the patient is incapable of spontaneously extending the joint; the flexion of the elbow results from the flexor muscles having no anta- gonists ; and the olecranon is detached from the body of the ulna, and pulled upwards, by the action of the triceps muscle. ii A fractiu'e of the ulna often occurs at its inferior part, because it is smaller and less defended by soft structui'es than the upper. One of its diagnostic marks, is a depression on the inside of the fore-ai-m, which is caused by the pronator radii quadi-atus muscle drawing the lower fragment towards the radius. The radius, however, is more frequently broken than the ulna, because it is the principal supj^ort of the hand. This accident is marked by the hand falling prone; partly from its own weight, but principally from the action of the prouating muscles. • i'l;! When both bones are fractured, the fragments are pushed together; a longitudinal derangement is rendered almost impossible, by the two bojies being united, throughout their whole length, by the inter- osseous ligament. In the reduction, or Avhat is the more common expression, in the setting of fractures, tliis grand principle must be borne in mind, ^dz.—to place the Jimb in such a position as will relax the most powerful319 muscles wliich are likely to act on the broken portions, and which, if not relaxed, will prevent ihe easy coap- tation of the fraj^-ments, and the retention of them when coapted; this rule must indubitably be the best in all cases. We cannot put all the muscles in a state of repose, therefore must be content to command the most powerful; and then, by means of splints and banda^-es, to conti-oul the action of the rest. It is not only required of the Surgeon to set a fracture, but to guard against future derangement, which, in oblique breaches of the hone, is sure to happen without proper management. '^i ' Muscles, too, are the agents of displacement in dislocations, and in all cases they offer an obstacle to reduction. The muscles resist, and not the ligaments, for they are generally torn through. In reducing a dis- located bone, we relax the most powerfiil muscles, and fatigue, by unremitting extension, those which cannot be relaxed. One of the laws of muscular irritability is, that a state of rest must succeed to a state of action ; a muscle may be tired, but not if we allow alternate action and repose ; hence the injudiciousness of using sudden jerks in the reduction of a dislocated limb, and the necessity of keeping up a steady and continued extension. The student is now to dissect the arteries, veins, and nerves of the upper extremity, and to observe320 their relation to the muscles, and to each oilier. He is to follow the suhcliiviaii arteiy and vein, and the plexus of nerves passing to the axilla; the axillary artery, vein, and nerves sent otffrom the axillary plexus ; the brachial artery, and vena? coniites; the artery at the bend of the arm, and the cutaneous veins and other structures of this part; the radial ulnar, and inter- osseal branches, with their venae comites, and accom- panying nerves; and lastly, the branches which the radial and ulnar arteries send to the fingers. lie Avili then be prepared to consider the detached surgical views which I shall now give him. When we were engaged in the Anatomy of the neck, we omitted to describe a triangular space, formed, on the inner side, by the outer edge of the stemo cleido mastoideus; on the outer side, by the external edge of the trapezius; and below, by the clavicle; because it was not connected with the vessels of the neck, but with the arteiy and nerves which supply the upper extremity. Having reflected a triangular portion of integ-u- ment, corresponding with the form of this space, the platysma myoides muscle will be exposed; under it, is the cervical fascia, and deeper still, we find much loose cellular structure. This last is to be careftdly dissected away, in order to show the subcla%aan artery, and vein, and the ccn'ical nei-ves, Avbich go to form the axillary plexus.2 S 3^r The stiuleut Is to traee the subclifvian artery on both sides of the neck, as the difference in origin occasions varieties in the course, and length of the vessels. To obtain a vicAV of its first part, the clavi- cular portion of the sterno cleido must be raised; the par vagum will then appear before the artery, and just behind the sternal extremity of the clavicle; anterior to the artei-y, is the subclavian vein; and connected with the vein and artery, are the recurrent nerve, thoracic duct, and other important parts. The artery on the right side arises fi'om the arteiia innominata; it is more superficial than the left, shorter by the' length of the arteria innominata, and more direct in its course. The left takes its origin irom the arch of the aorta, it passes, first vertically upwards, and then suddenly bends outwards; but the course of both arteries is the same, after they have passed between the scalenus anticus, and medius muscles; each arteiy then begins to descend to the axilla, having the plexus of nerves above and rather behind it, and the subcla- vian vein before, but separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus muscle. Having emerged from under the clavicle, the subclavian loses its name, and becomes the axdlaiy arteryr Having studied the relations of the subclavian ' aiteiy, and the branches which are sent oflP fi-om it, viz,—^the internal mammary, the superior intercostal, the vertebral, the inferior thyroideal, the supra sca- pular, and the cervical, which are very variable in322 tlieir origin aiid course; the next points for considerai tion are, the practicability of passing a ligature about it, and the cases requiring the operation. The safety of cutting down upon the artery, in order to tie it between the heart and scaleni muscles, is to be ques- tioned, on account of the proximity of the vessel to many very important parts; but that it may be tied without much risk, after it has passed the scaleni muscles, many successful cases bear witness. The exteiTial incision is to divide the skin imme- diately above the clavicle, from the outer edge of the clavicular portion of the sterno cleido muscle, to the margin of the clavicular insertion of the trapezius. On the edges of this incision being sepai-ated, the fibres of the platysma myoides will be exposed; these are to be cut through with caution, lest the external jugular vein, which lies immediately under it, should be wounded; the jugular vein is, by means of a blunt hook, to be di-awn to the outer side, the celliUar mem- brane carefully separated with the handle of the scalpel, and the artery felt for, which has the cervical nerves of the axillai-y plexus above, and the subclavian vein below it. The vessel lies deep, and therefore some difficulty has occasionally been experienced in passmg a ligature about it; this has induced Desault, Mr. Ramsden, and other Surgeons, to conti-ive instru- ments, by which this part of the operation may be facilitated. Not very long ago, Mr. Weiss, an inge- nious surgical instrument-maker in the Strand, con-323 structed au instrument, on a principle suggested by Mr. Kirby, an eminent Surgeon in Dublin. An idea of it cannot easily be conveyed in words; therefore, the plate of it, which is given in many Journals, must be consulted. Mr. Travers, and Mr. Brodie, have used it, and found it to obviate the difficulty alluded to ; in some recent cases, however, the common aneurismal needle has been found quite sufficient. The principal case requiring a ligatui-e on the subclavian, is aneurism of the axillaiy artery, which may be seated below the clavicle, or be extended to the subclavian artery itself. When we look to the anastomosing branches of the subclavian and axillary ai-teries, we find that the chance of success in tliis operation is less than that of tyhig many other arteries of the body; for the means of supplying the upper extremity with blood are, principally, limited to the inosculations between the supra scapular artery, which is a branch of the sub- clavian, and the infi-a scapular which arises from the axillaiy artery; and in the occasional variety, where the supra scapular artery springs from the axillary, instead of the subclavian, success is still more doubt- ful. But the apparent scantiness of the means by which the circulation can be can-ied on, after the main trimk is obliterated, ought not to deter us from performing the operation, for in many instances the324 resources of nature Lave been found adequate to the supply of a sufficient quantity of blood for the support of the limb. A wound of the axillai-y artery is regarded as an accident which requii-es a ligature on the subcla- vian; but no secui-ity against hoemoiThagc^can be fully calculated upon, unless the wounded vessel is cut down upon, and two ligatiires passed; one above, and the other below the bleeding point. This remaik will lead me to speak of the relations of the axillar}' artery, and the parts concerned in the operation of tying it. To gain a view of the axillary vessels, and nerves just below the clavicle, an incision is to be made in a line corresponding with the lower mai-gin of that bone, and another to meet it along the edge of the deltoid muscle; the integument is then to be reflected towards the sternum, in order to bring into view, the clavicular portions of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. The origin of the latter muscle from the clavicle is next to be raised, and the cellular meiiir brane underneath to be dissected carefully away. The parts seen after a little dissection are, the cephalic vein terminating in the axillary vein; the humeral thoracic artery winding up to the deltoid muscle; the axillary vein partly covered by the pectoralis minor muscle; the axillary artery partly concealed by thp vein; and behind the artery is the axillary plexus of nei*ves; but in order to expose these parts in the greatest possible degree, the pectoralis nuyor should be relaxed.325 In the operation of taking up the axillary artery, tlie iirst incision is to be commenced about an inch from the sternal end of the clavicle, and carried to- wai-ds the coracoid process of the scapula; some of the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis muscle are to be subsequently divided, the cellular membrane under- neath pushed aside with the handle of the scalpel, and by the same means the artery exposed. We have now to consider the connections of the artery, in the depth of the arm pit, a pyramidal cavity occupied by blood vessels, nerves, absorbent glands, much fat, and cellular membrane. Tn this space, the artery will be seen surrounded by the plexus of nerves, and most difficult to reach, without injury to other parts. In the tj'ing of this vessel, and the extirpation of glands from the axilla, the operations are to be ex- ecuted with as little use of the blade of the knife as possible, after the incision through the integument has been made. When the artery has passed the tendons of the pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi muscles, it takes the name of brachial artery; which vessel de- scends on the inside of the arm, to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the ulnar and radial branches. At the upper part of the arm it is covered anteriorly by the coraco brachialis muscle, but dm-ing the rest of its course, it lies on the inner edge of the biceps, accompanied by the brachial vein, sometimes326 veins, and the median ucrvC; which is situated over the artery, and contained in the same sheath as the vessels. Fi'om being directly over the artery, it re- ceives a pulsatory motion from it, and on this account the nerve has been mistaken for the artery, and tied. In the operation of securing this vessel, the edge of the biceps muscle is to guide us to its seat; an incision about two and a half or three inches in length, is to be made through the skin, and fascia, and the margin of the biceps drawn to the outer side. The sheath of the vessels is to be opened, the artery separated fi-om the other contents, and a ligature apjjlied. The cii- culation is afterwards continued by the communica- tions which exist between the branches of the suj)erior deej) humeral, and the recurrent branch of the radial artery; between the inferior deep humeral, and recur- rent ulnar, and interosseal branches; besides which there are other muscular, and collateral routes. The bend of the arm is a veiy important piece of anatomy, and ought to be well studied. It is com- posed of common integument, superficial or cutaneous veins, cutaneous nerves, fascia, the insertion of the biceps, brachial artery, brachial vein, or veins, median nerve, and lastly, the tendon of the brachialis internus muscle. In reflecting the skin, the student should take care not to injure the superficial veins, and the cutaneous filaments of nerves. The veins are usually four in number, viz.—the cephalic, basilic, median cephalic, and median basilic; these two last are327 formed by the bifurcation of the common median vein. On the median cephalic, and median basilic are seen some filaments from the external and internal cutane- ous nerves, and under the median basilic lies the bra- chial ai-tery, but separated irom it by an intervenmg fascia. The artery, vein, and median nerve are on the inner edge of the biceps tendon. It will be evident to the student after examinuig; the relation of the cutaneous veins to the artery, that there is some danger in opening the median basilic vein without care, because the artery is beneath it; but as varieties are constantly occurrmg in the branching off of the superficial veins, and in the com-se of the brachial artery and its division, it is never prudent to bleed in either of the veins without first ascertaining whether any artery is in danger of being wounded. In two of the subjects received into my dissecting-room last winter, there were vaiieties in the distribution of the arteries of the arm. In one, the brachial arteiy divided into the radial and ulnar branches a little below tbe axilla; the radial branch descended behind the median basilic vein, taking the same course that the brachial artery ordinarily does. In the other, the bifurcation took place about the middle of the ai-m, and the radial branch passed do^vnwards, immediately by the side of the cephalic median, and quite as super- ficial as the vein. Here a wound of the radial artery would have been endangered in bleeding from what is commonly the safest vein, because it is very distantfrom the brachial artery, in the relation nvhicJi that vessel most frequently bears to the cutaneous yeiiis..^,; The puncture of an artery in bleeding, gives rise to %vliat is called an aneurismal vai-ix, which is to be treated on the iDrinciple of woimded arteries. This ja one of the most formidable accidents attendant on venas-sectio ; but there are now and then other unplea- sant consequences; as inflammation of the vein, abscess, &c.; but I shall refer the student to W)Orfk.8 ,qn S,aj«v, gery, for information on these subjects.,. ,^„, - iffow The ulnar, radial, and interosseal arteries, in their com-se down the arm; their distribution in the hand; and their relation to the venee comites, and nerves, are next to be studied. The sviperficial palmar- arch is formecl by the ulnar artery; the deep arch by the radial. Between the two, there are free inoscula- tions: 1st.—Through a branch called, the superfi- cialis volae, which is given off by the radial artery, near the wrist, and traversing the palm of the hand, joins the superficial arch. 2dly.—By the radialis indi- cis, which anastomoses at the tip of the fore-finger, with the ulnaris indicis. 3dly.—By the ai-teria pro- funda volfB, which, after distributing branches to the interosseal muscles, and deep parts of the palm, ter- minates, by communicating with the ai-teria ulnaris profunda; thus, in whatever pai t, the ulnar, or radial arteries should be obstructed by ligature, there will remain ample resources for the circulation in the fore-329 arm, and hand, independent even of the interosseal ai-teries, which inosculate freely with each other ahout the wrist, and hand, and with branches of the radial and ulnar vessels. An acquaintance with the distribution of the arteries of the fore-arm, teaches us this practical fact, that in order to suppress, in an elFectual manner, a hcemorrhage from a wound of either the ulnar or radial artery, it is necessary to secure both extremities of the vessel, for if a ligature were placed on the upper portion only, bleeding would be sure to continue from the lower. 2 TON THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Bffgre making insulated views of the groin, inside of the. thigh, ham, leg, and foot, I shall give some prefatoiy remarks on the bones, joints, and mus- cles of the lower exti-emity. The thigh -bone is the longest and largest cylin- drical bone in ihe body. Above, it is received into the acetabulum of the pelvis; below, it is articulated with the tibia, and patella. Its remarkable parts are, the head, neck, great ti-ochanter, little ti-ochanter, linea aspera, and condyles. The hip-joint is like the shoulder, an orbicular one • but the acetabulum, formed by the ilium, ischium, and'pubis, is much deeper than the glenoid cavity of tbe scapula. The joint has two ligaments, the cap- sular without, and the ligamentum teres within the joint; and the former is strengthened by the aponeu- rotic'mseitions of the muscles of the hip. The arti- culation lies deep; hence, injui'ies of it are not easy to detect. The head of the femur may be dislocated m four directions, viz.-on the dorsum ilii; into the ischiatic331 notch; downwards, in the foramen ovale; and up- wards, on the body of the pubis. If the head of the bone be placed in the dift'ereut situations which we have mentioned, the character- istics of the four kinds of dislocations will be easily explained. In the management of dislocations of the hip- joint, certain relaxant means are necessary, prior to any attempt at reduction; thus, the patient should be bled, put into a hot bath, and nauseated by means of tartar emetic. Having thus prepared him, the appa- ratus for extension, and counter-extension, are to be "applied, and the required force employed for the reduction of the bone. WhUst the extension is going on, the head of the bone is to be forcibly carried towards its natural situation. Now we are on injuries of the hip-joint, I shall make a few observations on fractures of the cervix femoris, a subject which has excited, of late, much interest amonst the Members of the Profession. It is not, however, with the causes and diagnosis of the accident, that I shall occupy the reader's time, but with the opinion entertained on its prognosis, and treatment. Until Mr. Earle's " Practical Observations on \ Surgery'' appeared, a difference of sentiment as332 to whether re-union takes place >y hen the fracture is within the ligament, had scarcely heen expressed amongst the Hospital Surgeons of this country; but the French Surgeons and ourselves have always been at variance on this question. The arguments, however, on this branch of Pathology, ai-e so conflicting, as we shall presently show, as to make us cautious in vindir- . eating, in a positive manner, either of the opposite, opinions. ' i"" Desault states his full conviction that fractures, of- , the cervix femoris, occurring in a healthy constitution,, will unite, on the average, in about forty days,, and,^- ; generally without deformity. In the " Parisian Chi- rurgical Journal^'' published mkny years ,ago..by Desault, who was then Principal Surgeon ;to,i^he ^ . Hotel Dieu, we find several cases of this kind, which were successfully treated. Let us now oppose to this opinion, the observa- tions of Sir Astley Cooper, whose experience has not fallen far short of that, which Desault himself enjoyed. In his Work " On Dislocations, Sfc." he pointsj^j^j^ out three species of fracture of the cervix femoris j^q^a first, that in which the fracture happens through the gjifU neck of the bone, entirely within the capsulaij((j,uq ligament. Secondly, a fracture through the neck^jj^^g of the thigh-bone, at its junction with the tro-3W ligament. And thirdly,, that species v(here the l>one^ is broken through the ti-ochanter major, beyond its ^ juiiction with the cei-vix femoris. Between the three j kinds, he makes this important distinction; in the first, no re-union will take place; hut the two last will admit of union, like fractures of other bones. Sir Astley qualifies the opinion that he has given, by say- ing, that if, in the first place, a bony union ever does happen, it is an exti-emely rare occm-rence, and that he has not yet met with a single example of it. The reasons which he assigns for the absence of ossific imion in the transverse fracture the capsular,. ii'f ligament, are these: '.ist;=^The want of proper apposition of the bones; _, for if-the broken extremities, in any part of the body, ^ be kept much asimder, ossific union is prevented. 2ndly.—The want of pressure of one bone upon the other, even where the length of the limb is pre- served: This will operate in preventing union, in cases Tvhere the capsular ligament is not torn, in con- sequence of the secretion of a quantity of fluid into the joint, from increased determination of blood to the capsular ligament; this distends the ligament, and thus entirely prevents the contact of the bones, by pushing the upper eiid Of the thigh-bone, from the .^^ acetabulum. ^^ T^^ T^iaifrdJ^^d^'priMi^iiJariea^n'^^ 3UO334 Astley Cooper, is the absence of ossific action in the head of the thigh bone, from being separated from its cervix; its life being then solely supported by the ligamentum teres, which has only a few minute vessels ramifying from it to the head of the bone. May we not, with propriety, add a fourth, viz.— the age of the patient? Fractures of the cervix femoris occur, in eight cases out of ten, in persons far advanced in years, and we know that the littie vitality of bone, in old age, often proves a preventive to re-union in any situation. Sir Astley Cooper's opinion, then, is dii-ectly opposed to that of Desaidt, and other Siu-geons; he maintains, that re-union has never happened in his practice, when the fracture is witliin the capsulai- lio-ament, and retains no connection with the trochanter mljor On the other hand, we find distinctly stated in the sixth case of Desault, that a fracture through the middle of the neck of the thigh-bone, was united, without deformity, on the forty-fourth day. Sir Astley Cooper believes that re-union can take place in the second and third species, but not m the first This belief may certainly lead to the error which M Roux apprehends, viz.-that those supposed to be ,./^7m. the ligament will be left to themselves; those witJiout it, only, being capable of consolidation.335 Now it is to be allowed, that there is no posU.ve mode of determining- the exact seat of the fraeture and that the different species may be confounded. Seeing this, aU fractures of the cervix should be treated after the same manner. The ti-eatment should be, to bring the fragments, as much as possible, in coaptation, by extension and counter-extension, and to keep them in that state by retentive means. To fulfil this last indication, we must form an effectual opposition to the motions of the pelvis on the tWgh, the thigh on the pelvis, the lee on the thigh, and the foot on the leg, by means of splints properly secured. In the French Hospitals fractures of the cervix femoi-is are as attentively treated and watched, as fr-actures of the body of the femur, from a conviction that the one unites as readily as the other- we must attribute the success of Desault's cases to this attention; and, perhaps, the frequent failures in this country, to the negligent practice which is engendered by our entertaining an opposite opimon. The thio-h-bone terminates in two condyles, which contribute to form the knee-joint, which, like the elbow is of the hinge-like description, and susceptible of flexion and extension only. The bones which com- pose it are three, viz.-the femur, tibia, and patella. The ligaments are, the external and internal lateral; the posterior ligament, the capsular and Ugamentum patells ; into this last the rectus, crurseus, and vasti.336 muscles are inserted, which muscles act on the tibia, and produce the extension of the leg upon the thigh. Internally, we find the alar and cinacial ligaments, and some transverse ligamentous bands uniting the two semilunar cartilages. As there are no massy soft parts surrounding this articulation, we can readily discover the alterations jjroduced in it, by accident and disease. The superficial nature of the knee-joint predis- poses it much to dislocation, and from being more ex- posed to violence from falls, than any other articula- tion, this accident is not of unfrequent occurrence, the patella, however, is oftener displaced from its situation, than the tibia is from the articulatory surfaces of the femur. The leg consists or two bones, tlie tibia, and fibula; the tibia is articulated with the femur above, and with the asti-agalus below. The fibula is aiticu- lated above with the tibia, therefore is not at all con- nected with the knee-joint. At the ankle-joint we find three bones, the tibia, the fibula, and the astra- galus. The tai-sal bone, called astragalus, has an articulatoiy surface for each of the bones of the leg Scarcely any other motions are allowed at the ankle, besides flexion and extension. Although this articulation is rendered exceedingly strong by cajjsular and other ligaments, it is, next to llie shoulder-joint, the most liable to dislocation; andmm from being superficial, and projecting at the malleoli; the accident is often compound. The tibia may be thrown in any dii-ection, but the dislocation Inwards is most frequent. As the gastrocneniii muscles are in- serted into the os calcis; it is necessary, in reducing the tibia, that these muscles be relaxed, by bending the knee. Between the first and second row of tarsal, as between the fii-st and second row of carpal bones, we find a perfect joint. It is formed, above, by the astra- galus, and OS calcis; and below, by the os naviculare, and OS cuboides : the astragalus is opposed to the os naviculare, the os calcis to the os cuboides, and tbe articulation between them is nearly in the same trans- verse line. The tarsal-bones are united to each other by capsular ligaments, and ligaments passing from bone to bone. The metatarsal bones are fixed to the tarsal by capsular, and to each other, by interosseal liga- ments. The toes, like the fingers, have capsiilar, and lateral ligaments. In the lower extremity, as in the upper, the student must make himself acquainted with the points of bones neai- the joints, which can be felt through their fleshy covering. He should particularly observe the relative position of the trochanter major, as this will assist him in detecting accidents of the hip-joint. The student is next to dissect the muscles, which may be classed according to their uses. 2 u338 The motions of the lower extremity are, those of the femur on the pelvis; of the leg upon the thigh; of the foot upon the leg; and those of the toes. The hip is a hall and socket joint, like the shoulder; hut differs from it in the depth of the socket, and size of the head of the bone. The move- ments of the thigh-bone on the pelvis are extensive, and in evei7 direction; they are, backwards, (exten- sion) ; forwards, (flexion); outwards, (abduction); inwards, (adduction) ; and it can revolve upon its axis inwards, or outwards, (rotation inwards and out- Avards). The muscles of extension are, the glutaeus maximus, part of the glutaeus medius, that portion of the biceps which arises from the tuber ischii, that portion of the adductor magnus from the same point, the semi membranosus, the semi tendinosus; besides which, some of the smaller muscles near the posterior part of the hip-joint assist in this action. The muscles of flexion are, the iliacus internus, the psoas magnus, the tensor vaginae femoris, the sarto- rius, the gracilis, the adductores, the rectus, the pec- tineus, and the obturator externus. ■it The muscles of abduction are, the three glutaei, the pyriformis, the gemini, the obturator internus, and tensor vaginae femoris.339 .. The muscles of adduction are, the Uiacus iuternus, psoas magnus, pectineus, gracilis, adductores, obtu- rator exteraus, and quacb-atus femoris. The muscles of rotation inwards are, the anterior portions of the glutseus medius, and glutaeus minimus, the tensor vaginae femoris, sartorius, and gracilis. The muscles of rotation outwards ai-e, the glutaeus maximus, glutiEUs medius, pyiiformis, gemini, obtu- rator externus, quadratus femoris, iliacus internus, psoas magnus, and three adductores. The knee is like the elbow, a gmgiymoid joint; when the leg is a little bent, however, a slight rotatory motion can be performed. The muscles of the anterior part of the thigh (the sartorius excepted) are, the ex- tensors. Those of the posterior part ai-e, the flexors. The rotators inwards are, the muscles which go to be inserted into the tibia. The rotator outwards is, the biceps, which is inserted into the fibula. The ankle-joint is hinge-like, but in addition to flexion and extension, it can be l)ent inwards and outwards. The flexors are, the tibialis anticus, and the extensor muscles of the toes. The extensors are, the gastrocnemii, plantaris, tibialis posticus, peronei, and flexors of the toes. The benders inwards are, the tibialis posticus, the extensor proprius poUicis, and the flexors of the toes.340 The benders outwards are, the perouei, and ex- tensor longus digitorum. The toesj like the fingers, can be bent, extended, abducted, and adducted. The flexors and extensors are named according to the toes which the supply. The abductors are, the abductor pollicis, abductor - minimi digiti, and interossei anteriores. The adductors are, the adductor pollicis, traus- versalis pedis, and interossei posteriores. Let us now see how these muscles produce the ' signs of fractui-e, when the solution of continuity in the bones is complete. ' " ' •»•.-! When the cervix femoris is broken through, the limb is shortened, because the muscles which take!*: their origin from the pelvis, and are inserted into, orsii near the ti-ochanter, pull the lower portion of the bone' upwards; and the toes are turned outwards, principally from the rotators outwai-ds, being more powerful than!'> the rotators inwards. When the fracture happens below the ti-ochanters, there are various muscles both above and below ih& ~ seat of accident. There are some attached to the femur tliroughout its whole length, and from being connected with both fragments, would not occasion much displacement; but those which arise from the341 pelvis, and ai-e implanted into the bones of the leg, as the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and biceps, act on the lower fragment, and give rise to the signs, which mark a fracture of the shaft of the bone. The patella is liable to be broken from the same causes as the olecranon ulnae, viz.—the action of mus- cles, and external force. If the fracture be transverse, the upper portion of the bone is di-awn upwai-ds by the action of the rectus femoris muscle. In fiactures of the bones of the leg, the lower fragments are acted upon by the gastrocnemii, and peronei muscles, and cai-ried backwards and outwards. Seeing that the displacing agents in fractures of the thigh, and leg, are the flexor muscles of the knee, and the extensor muscles of the foot; there can be little doubt as to the position which we should give the limb in fractures of the thigh and leg. In fracture of the shaft of the femur with displacement, we should relax the flexor muscles of the knee, in order to reduce the fragments, and we should presei-ve the semiflex position afterwards, in order to keep them reduced. In fractm-e of the bones of the leg, the gastrocnemii must be put in a state of relaxation, and kept so by retentive means, during the whole of the cui-e. I am aware that this practice is objected to by some Surgeons, paiticularly by the French, who advise an horizontal posture of the limb; but I saw nothing in the Pari-342 sian Hospitals that could induce me to forsake the method adopted hy the majority of English Surgeons. It is not Pott's method that we adhere to, further, than in putting the limh in a state of half flexion: to make it rest horizontally, on its outer side, (which was another part of his practice, in fractm-es of the thigh,) has, for just and proper reasons, heen abandoned. Having dissected the muscles, and applied a knowledge of their action on the hones, and joints, to practical purposes; the student will trace the main arteries, and their branches, the principal veins, the anterior crural, and sacro sciatic nerves, and obserVe their relative position with respect to the muscles, to the bones, and to each other. The abdominal aorta terminates at the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the common iliac arteries. Each common iliac passes obliquely out- wards, aiid downwards, and just at the sacro iliac symphysis, divides into the internal and external iliac branches. The internal iliac artery is principally distiibuted to the pelvic viscera; but there are branches, viz.=^ the obturator, glutgeal, and ischiatic, which supply the muscles of the thigh, and are important anasto- mosing vessels when the external iliac is obliterated. The external iliac ai-tery descends under Pou-343 part's ligament, to the lower extremity. It sends off the epigastric, and the circumflexa ilii branches. After appearing at the upper part of the thigh, it takes the name of femoral artery; and passes down, obliquely, over the pectinaeus, and triceps muscles; lower down, it corresponds with the inner edge of the sartorius muscle. After perforating the tendon of the triceps, it becomes the popliteal artery, which terminates by dividing into the anteiior and posterior tibial branches. The anterior tibial perforates the interosseous ligament, and then appears in front of the leg, between the tibialis anticus, and extensor longus 'digitorum; still lower, it has the extensor proprius poUicis on its outer side; and on the dorsum of the foot, it is situated between the tendon of the extensor proprius poUicis, and the first tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. The posterior tibial branch descends between the gastrocnemius internus, and the flexor longus digi- torum muscles. It passes behind the maUeolus inter- nus, and enters the sole of the foot, where it divides into the plantar arteries. The peroneal artery is a branch of the posterior tibial, and ends by anasto- mosing with branches of the anterior and posterior tibial, near the ankle-joint. The arteries are accompanied by veins; bejo-w the knee, there are two veins to one artery; but above the knee, only one., ,iThe, wnae saphenac arc cutaneous344 veins; the vena saphena minor terminates in tlie vena sapliena major, wliich ends in tlie femoral vein. The anterial crural nerve is distributed to the skin, and deep muscles on the fore and inner part of the thigh. The great sciatic nerve supplies the remainder of the thigh and leg, and branches of it accompany the anterior tibial, and posterior tibial arteries. These ffcweral remarks on the distribution of the arteries, veins, and nerves of the lower extremity, wiU prepare the student for what we are about to say on the grouping together of parts, in detached views of the groin, inside of the thigh, ham, leg, and foot. The groin is a veiy important part of the Anas toray of the body, and one of peculiar interest to the Sui'geou, from being connected with hemiae, and from being the situation of the main artery of the lower extremity. Every student who has merely read of the parts concerned in inguinal and crural herniae, justly thinks the subject difficult and embarrassing, and almost despairs of ever knowing what Lecturers, and Anato- mical Writers m-ge as indispensable. But I will encourage the pupil, by assm-ing him, that there is no point in surgical Anatomy more simple, and that the perplexity which he feels, arises from his substituting345 the laboured, and mhnite descriptions of authors, (and not necessary to the practical understanding- of the subject), for the demonstration of the parts, as they really are in nature; and his embarrassment is not a little heightened, by Avriters on herniai giving different names to one, and the same structure. In a former part of the volume, we described the abdominal muscles; but we did not particularize on their connections at the groin. To do this, will be the present object. If an incision be made from about three inches below the umbilicus, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; and another from the commence- ment of this incision, perpendicularly to the sym- physis pubis; we include a portion of integument, under which, are the parts concerned in inguinal and crural hernia;. To display these parts, another inci- sion in the integument is required, from the centre of the transverse one, directly downwards, to about three inches below the groin; two flaps of skin will thus be formed, and these flaps are to be carefully dis- sected from the condensed layer of cellular membrane underneath, and reflected; the inner towards the linea alba, and symphysis pubis; the outer towards the spine of the ilium, and the outer part of the thigh. The condensed membrane, Avliich is now seen cover- ing the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, Poupart's ligament, the spermatic cord, after emerg- •2 V340 ing from the ring, and the upper part of the thigh^ is called the fascia supcrficialis. It is a structure not confined to the groin; but here, and in other portions of the bodj', it is thicker, more membranous, and deserving of particular notice, from its relation to herniae, and suppurating buboes. The fascia superfcialis is to be separated from the aponeurosis which it covers, and reflected in a similar way to the skin; this will expose the glisten- ing tendon, its tennination in Poupart's ligament, the upper portion of the fascia lata of the thigh, and the inguinal glands; and the student will easily under- stand, after observing the situation of the superficial fascia above the inguinal glands, why it is, that abscesses in tlie groin ai-e long in bm-sting; for the fascia thickens from pressure, and oiFers great resis- tance ; and why, if allowed to open spontaneously, a sinuous ulcer is often left, Avhich is troublesome to heal. The common skin, and fascia just described, are then the superficial parts of the inguinal region. J The portion of aponemosis, which stretches from the superior spinous process of the ilium to the sym- physis pubis, is next to be examined. It is called Poupart's ligament, and at its pubic extremity, there is an opening, formed by a separation of the tendinous fibres, and named the external abdominal ring, in contradistinction to another aperture, by and by to be described, which is the internal ring. If the student347 expected to find the external abdominal ring a distinct opening, lie ^viU, in this stage of the dissection, per- ceive his error. It is occupied by the spermatic cord, and cellulai- membrcme, over which is a thin, delicate fascia, wliich is called the fascia of the cord, and conceals the site of the ring; on raising this, and breaking down, with the handle of his scalpel, the cellular coiuiections of the cord, he will be able to observe the ring, which, however, is not circular, as its name would seem to imply, but rather of an elliptical form. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is now to be detached from the internal oblique, which is under it, and turned towai-ds the thigh. The internal oblique is then to be detached from the transversalis, which is under it, and these two muscles observed in their relation to the spermatic cord in its passage fi-om the external ring, to its disappearance at the groin. The student is then to replace the internal oblique and transversalis, and to leave the aponeurosis of the external oblique reflected towards the thigh. By taking hold of the spermatic cord, and gently di-aw- ing it, he will see its course behind Poupart's liga- ment; and will observe, that it is covered with a few pale fibres, called the cremaster muscle, which are derived from the obliquus internus, and trans- versalis muscles. If now the internal oblique, and transversalis348 be carefully cut, and pushed upwards with the haudle of the kuife, a thin fascia will be seen linings the posterior surface of the latter muscle; it is the fascia transversalis of Cooper. Below, it is .firmly attached to Poupart's ligament, and the pubis; and passing upwards, we find it between the posterior surface of the transversalis, and the peiitoneum. In this fascia, is the internal abdominal ring, by wlxich the cord leaves the abdomen. The tendons of the internal oblique, and transversalis, are not then perfo- rated for the passage of the cord, for the opening is in the fascia above mentioned, and the tendons io£i these muscles form, as it were, an arch over the corddl In tracing the cord, the student will observe it, in what is called the inguinal canal, viz.—that space between the two rings; that it is here situated behind the apo«i neurosis of the external oblique; and that it jjasses* under the edges of the internal oblique, and trans4o versalis muscles. At the internal abdombial rin^jfv (which is not a well defined opening, without breaking down the cellular membrane about it,) the spermatic cord is formed; and behind the ring is the peiitoneum, which lines the abdominal cavity; it is important to bear this in mind, as it explains the nature of the hernial sac. In the dissection, the student must observe thev epigastric artery. It arises from tiie external Uiac- and passes upwards, and inwards, towards the rectus muscle ; it is situated a little on the inner side of the349 internal ring, and between the fascia transversalisf. and peritoneum. ,-iiuThlis we have followed the spermatic cord, and its coimections in its passage from the external ring to the abdomen; and if we reverse the order of things, we shall have the course of the viscera in oblique inguinal heniia. . .. We stated, when speaking on the parietes, and contents of the abdomen, that, in health, the abdo- minal cavity was accurately filled by the viscera; that> th« muscular walls exerted a constant but mild compression-, .and that the viscera re-act upon them. Ifcis byithis^compression, that the organs are supported in their respective situations ; but when, by any cause, the uniformity of pressm-e is distuibed, certain parts of the pai-ietes, wliich are less resisting than others, may yield, and the viscera be pushed without the abdomen; this is hernia. shall not enter into the particular causes of hernia, but shaU just remark, that the disease consists in the protrusion of some of the contents of the abdo- men through certain apertures, which transmit blood- vessels, or other parts; and that when the proti-uding viscera appear at the external abdominal ring, the disease is called, inguinal; and when under Pou- pait's ligament, femoral heruia.350 Inguinal hernise are of three kinds; the oblique, the direct, and the congenital. We have examined the natural parts connected with them, and found them to be, common integument; the fascia superficialis; the fascia of the spermatic cord; Poupart's ligament; the exter- nal abdominal ring; the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles; the fascia transversalis; the internal abdominal ring; the inguinal canal; the epigastiic artery; the spermatic cord; its cremaster tunic; and behind all these, is the peritoneum. In the female subject, the round ligament occupies the place of the spermatic cord, and the apertures are proportionally small; to which circumstance is atti'i- butable the infrequency of inguinal hernia in the female sex. To know the Anatomy of these parts, in their natural state, is an essential piece of knowledge to the student, but he must not forget that there is often a great dilFereuce between the Anatomy of parts in health, and in disease. Every one is aware of the effects of pressure in elongating extensible membranes, thus the peritoneum is carried before the viscera, and constitutes the sac of all herniae, (congenital excepted )j however large they may be. This membrane is not broken, as the Ancients erroneously supposed, hence the term " rupture," but actually pushed before the viscera. Common observation on pregnancy, and dropsy, is sufficient to convince us of the degree pf351 extension which the peritoneum is capable of under- going. Every body knows, too, the effect of pressure in rendering a thin membrane, a dense and thick fascia; the student must, therefore, expect the coverings of a hernial tumour to be much thicker than in their natural state. Instead of finding the fascia superficialis a layer of cellular membrane, loosely matted together, he will see it in the form of a dense fascia. Instead of the delicate tunic which the cremaster assumes, we find, that the muscle acquires a surprising thickness: and the tiansparent peritoneum is often, in old and voluminous herniae, exceedingly changed in its appear- ance. Besides the alteration in structure, the parts will be more or less altered in position; thus, instead of there being an inch, or more, between the external and internal rings, they are neaily brought together; and there will be differences in the relation of other piarts. f- An oblique inguinal hernia takes the course of the spermatic cord. The intestine, or epiploon, enters the inguinal canal by the internal abdominal ring, and carries with it that portion of peritoneum, which lined the posterior surface of the ring. Hernia in the ingui- nal canal will often elude detection, as the dense apo- neurosis of the external oblique will not yield; and- therefore no tumour can be perceived. Patients have died from strangulation in this case, without the cause being at all suspected. When the hernia is in the canal, the sac is covered by the common integument, the362 fascia superfi<.ialis, and the aponeurosis of tlie ^xferiial 'oblique; and the seat of strangulation is generally at the place where the internal oblique, and transversalis muscles cross the neck of the sac. When the viscei'a are protruded through the external ring, a tumour is formed, and the nature of the disease becomes obvious. It is characterized by being returnable into the abdomen; by disappearing when the patient takes an horizontal posture ; and by its volume being increased by the eiforts of coughing, and sneezing. If the truss be not applied itt 'this stage of the complaint, the tumour will augment in bulk, and will, at last, extend to the scrotum. ; The coverings of the hernial sac are Hh«'§K%^ in number, after passing the ring, whatever progress the swelling may have made. The common skin f^'tlie first tunic; the fascia superficialis, the second' the fascia of the spermatic cord, the thii-d; the cremastieir tunic, the fourth ; and then the sac. Scarpa, however, speaks of a cellular covering over the sac, and between it, and the cremaster. He says, if we dissect with care, a voluminous and old scrotal hernia, (meaning inguinal hernia which has passed into the scrotimi), Ave remark, in the first i)lace, a prolon gatiohj '»f considerable thickness, of the fascia lata aponeu- rosis, by which he means the fascia of the corA; (by some called fascia propria,) and under it, the ci-e- master tunic ; these two envelopes are sometimes v6ry353 9{^J^.3i9<i'. Below tlieui, he says^ we find a cellular tis^u^^ .^,p much cpntleiised, that it represents a compact afid. thick membrane, formed of several layers, applied one upon another. After having raised all these layers in succession, we come to the true hernial sac. He states this.tunic to be a prolongation of the cellu- lar tissue which covers all the exterior of the perito- neum; and that when the subject is embonpoint, the tunic is charged with fat, like that which unites the peritoneum to the abdominal muscles. The fascia cellularis of Scarpa, then, is another tunic in oblique hemia, and. this constitutes the fifth coveruig of the, sac,,. .^^ );• The relative position of the spermatic cord, and ^jjigastric arteiy is thus: the former is placed ordina- rily behind the hernial sac, but there are some excep- tipns to this rule; and the foundation of one excep- JijOn, yiz.—the division of the constituent parts of the ^qrd^ .iSj noti difficult to explain, when Ave knoAv that t^ey come from different directions; thus the bloods Vessels descend to the internal rinsr, and the vas defe- ^ens ascends from the pelvis; therefore, the compo- nent parts of the cord may be split by the force of protruding viscera, and consequently, sometimes the blood-vessels may be found on the anterior, and the vas deferens, on the posterior siuface of the sac. The epigastric artery is a little ou the inner side of the internal ring ; thus in oblique inguinal hemiaj it is on the pubic side of the mouth of the hernial sac. -i-^^354 When the oblique species of hernia is strangu- lated, the seat of stricture may be, the external ring, . the internal ring, or the neck of the sac; but the most common seat is the external ring. The second kind of inguinal hernia is the direct, or venti-o-inguinal. In this case, the intestine, or epiploon, or both, do not take the course of the inguinal canal, but pass directly through the external abdominal ring; and in this case, the cremaster mus- cle does not give a timic to the sac. The strictui-e in this species must be either at the external ring, or neck of the sac. rrtoi) The third species of inguinal hernia is the con- genital, so called from its usually appearing soqii after birth. To comprehend the manner in which At occurs, the student must be perfectly acquainted with what is named the descent of the testes. It must first be recollected, that these glands are not, from the ear- liest period of the fietus, situated in the scrotum ; originally they are lodged in the abdomen, immedi- ately below the kidnies, and, like the kidnies, they have an anterior covering fi-om the peritoneum. This is the relative situation of parts 'ere the child attains its seventh month. At, or near that period of uterine existence, the testes begin their descent into the scrotum, to which tliey are said to be guided by the gubernacula, and at birth their descent is usually com- pleted, but not always.355 '""Without kuowing- the orig-inal seat of the testes; how the peritoneum covers theii- anterior surface; and how the same membrane sends a process through the internal abdominal ring; it is not possible to under- stand the manner in which the tunica vaginalis, and timica vaginalis reflexa are formed. The student is much perplexed by finding, in dif- ferent Anatomical Works, diiferent names given to the membranes connected with the testis. Some writers call the close tunic, the timica albuginea; and the reflected one, the tunica vaginalis. Others regard the timica albuginea as a distinct structure, and not derived from the peritoneum; that it is the proper covering of the testis ; and that the septulas, or parti- '^'tions, which we meet with in the body of the gland, ''hetween the blood-vessels and seminiferous tubes, are 'processes of it. I am inclined to admit this as being •' really the case; therefore the testis vckj be said to " have three tunics; two close, and one reflected; and - they may be named, for distinction sake, tunica pro- ■pria, tunica vaginalis testis, and tunica vaginalis i'reflexa ; and these names, we shall take the liberty of adopting. The testis, then, in abdomine, has a par- tial investment from the peritoneum, besides its proper coat; the gland descends to the abdominal ring, car- rying with it the tunica propria, and tunica vaginalis testis. At the ring, it finds a cul de sac, or pouch of peritoneum, which is protruded, before the testis, into the scrotum, and forms the tunica vaginalis reflexa.35G Nothing can be more simple to understand than this, and when understood, it is easy to comprehend the nature of cong-enital hernia, and hydrocele in children. It is clear, that after the testis has carried Avith it the peritoneum which was at the ring, a communication will exist between the cavity of the abdomen, and that of the elongated sac, constituting the tunica vaginalis reflexa; but, naturally, this commimication does not long remain, for an adhesive process usually takes place, by whicb the neck of the' sac is closed; this, though commonly, is not, however, constantly the case; and a default of this kind gives rise to the dis- eases before mentioned. Between hernia congenita, and other herni£E, there is this difference; in the foiv*. mer, the tunica vaginalis reflexa forms the hernial sac^ in the latter, the sac is produced by a gradual stretchfC ing, or elongation of the peritoneum, from the pres^ siire of the protruded viscera: and between hydi-ocele in children, from the above stated cause, and the com- mon hydi-ocele at a more advanced age, there is this difference; in the former, there is a communication between the cavity of the abdomen, and that of the timica vaginalis reflexa; but in the latter, the tunica vaginalis reflexa is a bag without an opening. In tbe hydrocele of childhood, and of adult age, the effused fluid occupies tbe same situation, viz.—the tunica vaginalis reflexa; and the testis, with its tunica vagi- nalis testis, is behind the serous collection. a) There is a variety of congenital liernia produced,357 by a partial obliteration of the passage of communica- tion between the abdomen and the scrotum ; thus, the obliteration may not commence at the internal ring, but in the inguinal canal, leaving a pouch, into which, intes- tine, or epiploon, may easily insinuate itself; this pouch is gradually elongated, and in such a hernia, we find another sac, under the tunica vaginalis reflexa. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, to whom the Profession is as much indebted as to almost any man, was the first, I believe, who described this variety of hernia; it is not, however, of very frequent occurrence, -■^ib ■ .r.i. 'iWe will now give the Anatomy of the parts con- cerned in femoral, or crural hernia, some of which are the same as those of the inguinal species. This hernia takes the coui-se of the vessels of the thigh; therefore, the fascia superficialis and Poupart's liga- ment are equally concerned in both inguinal, and ciTiral herniae. • i Femoral hernia is a disease which more fre- quently happens in the female, than in the male sex; because the ligament of Poupart is more extended, owing to the greater breadth of the pelvis. The Ana- tomy of the parts ai-e, therefore, better shown in the female, than in the male subject. Before he proceeds farther with the dissection, than he has already done, in showing the Anatomy of ino iiinal hernia: the student should observe the man-358 ner in which the ujiper part of the thigh is shut out fi-om the ahdomen. By turning down the abdominal muscles, and peritoneum, and passing the finger under Poupart's ligament, he will find what is called the crural opening, which gives passage to the artery, and vein of the groin. The opening is not free, except at the inner side of the vein, and tliis is the part at wliich the protnision takes place in femoral hernia. The crural opening, or ring, is bounded, above, by Poupart's ligament, which is here called^ the crural arch; on the inner, or pubic side, by the ligament of Gimbernat, which presents to the finger a sharp edge; on the outer, or iliac side, and behind, by the psoas magnus, and iliacus muscles, and the fascia which covers them. The artery, and vein, are inclosed in a funnel-like sheath, which is formed, on the fore part, by the fascia transversalis ; and on the back part by the fascia iliaca, the membrane just mentioned as giving a covering to the psoas magnus, and iliacus internus muscles. The arteiy is on the iliac, and the vein on the pubic side of the crural ring. In femoral hernia, as in inguinal, the peritoneum forms the sac; the student may easily convince himself that this is the case, by separating the peritoneum from the inner surface of the abdominal muscles, and examining the manner in which it passes over the ring; and he will find, that no viscus can enter the crural ring Avithout cai-rying the peritoneum with it. If this membrane be359 pushed by the finger between the vein, and pnbic side of the sheath, we produce an artificial hernia, and if the sac thus produced be distended with hair, the student may proceed with the dissection below Poupart's liga- ment, and observe how the hernial protrusion stands in its relation to other parts. Under the common integument, at the upper part of the thigh, we find the fascia superficialis, which we have already described as covering the inguinal glands j if this fascia be raised, we expose the fascia lata, which uniformly surrounds the muscles of the thigh, below the enti-ance of the vena saphena into the femo- ral'vein; but above that point, there are irregular appearances in it. The fascia lata is commonly said to consist of two portions ; an iliac, and a pubic; the former portion is attached to nearly the whole of Poupart's ligament, and has a crescentic edge, called the falciform process; the latter, which is much ' thinner in structure, is attached to the anterior edge of the pubis, and covers the muscles of the thigh which arise from that bone, viz.—the pectinaeus, and °'a.dductores. It is coutimied behind the femoral ves- ' isels, and unites with the outer portion. A little below ' Poupart's, or Fallopius' ligament, we see an oval opening, where the fascials defective, it is occupied by cellular membrane and lymphatic glands: on removing these, a part of the femoral vein is brought into view, and at the lower part of the oval space, the vena saphena major is observed, entering the femoral vein..360 In Works on Ilenxiae, the portions of the fascia lata are much dwelt on, and I shall refer the student to them for a more minute description. The student may now examine the sheath of the vessels, a part of which, is not covered by the fascia lata; he will then dissect the deeper seated parts about the crural ring, and observe its boundaries. The parts, then, which are concerned in femoral hernia are those which are connected with the passage of the vessels from the abdomen to the groin. The coverings, which the hernial sac has, are, the common skin, the fascia superficialis, and the fascia propria of Cooper. The seat of stricture, when strangulated, may be the edge of Poupart's ligament, Gimbemat's ligament, or the mouth of the sac. I shall only make two or three more observations, which are suggested by the importance of knowing the Anatomy of the parts concerned in hernia, in the application of trusses; in the taxis; and in the operation. We learn, by the Aaiatomy of the inguinal species of hernia, the situation where the pad of the ti-uss should be placed, in order to produce a radical cure, viz.—not over the external, but the internal ring; for the mouth361 of tiie sac mtist be kept empty. Before the natural pai'ts of heiniia were well understood, the pad was invai-iably applied on the former situation, a practice which mig-ht prove injurious, by compressing the sper- matic cord against the pubis. By the operation of the taxis is meant, the act of returning the protruded viscera into the cavity of the abdomen. To elfect which, two things must be attended to, viz.—the i>osition, and direction of force. With resjiect to the jjosition of the patient, as our aim is to increase the capacity of the abdominal cavity, by relaxing its walls, it is obvious that the head, pelvis, and lower extremities, should be made to approach each other; and as the apertui'es, through which the hei-nia has passed, are relaxed, by turning the knee of the extremity of the affected side inwards, this must be done 'ere we attempt reduction. In inguinal hernia of small size, the force must be directed towards the ilium; but not so much so in large herniee. In femoral, or crural hernia, the tumour turns upon itself, after it has descended a little way in the thigh; thus, the pressure must first be downwards, and when the tumom- is brought to the level of Poupart's ligament, it is to be pushed directly upwards. With respect to the operation for strangulated hernia, we have to dread a wound of the contents of 2 Y362 the sac, and that of the epigastric arteiy; to avoid the forinei-, the coverings of the hernial tumour, are to be carefully divided; and to avoid the latter, we must bear in mind the common course of the artery, and take care not to cut in the direction of it. But the treatment of her - nise, in its different states, comprehends so many highly important considerations, that I should do harm, if I were to proceed farther; for the student must consult the Treatises which have been written upon the subject. There is no surgical disease upon which more labour has been bestowed, than hernia. To recommend the student, therefore, to read aU the Works that treat on it, would be to impose a task on him, which would require almost a long life to accom- plish ; but he will not do justice to himself, if he neg- lects the perusal of certain modern Works, as those of the present century; amongst which, we must consider Cooper's, Scarpa's, and Lawrence's, as possessing su- perior merit. ■ ^ mi) ^f" I have not entered on the diseases with which herniae may be confounded; the contents of the sac; the nature of the reducible, irreducible, and the sti-an- gulated states of herniae; and the anomalous circum- Ttances which may present themselves; as information on these subjects must be derived from the souices referred to, n noii? There are other heraiae, besides the umbilical, inguinal, and femoral; thus, there is the phrenic her-'563 rili; the ventral; the piulendal; theTaginal; the peri- neal; the thyroideal; the ischiatic; and th« mesente- ticj' and meso-colic herniae of Cooper. The appella- tion given to each species, is derived from the situa- tion in which the protrusion takes place. Thfe mdsf important relation of the Anatomy of the gioin to surgery, is, perhaps to be awarded to hernise; but aneurism of the external iliac artery, or of thte femoral, high up, is another subject which ■demands an intimate knowledge of the parts contained in this region of the body. -jjniviii an anem-ism of the external iliac artery, it is nectessary to pass a ligature about the vessel above the seat of disease. To do this, the Surgeon must know how the ai-tery runs, and how it is relatively placed Avith regard to other parts. The internal abdominal ring is situated at a pointy midway between the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the spinous process of the pubis. Behind this opening, is the external iliac artery; on the inner side of the arteiy, is the vein; and on the outer side, is the ante- rior crui-al nerve. The vessels are contained in a sheath behind the peritoneum. To reach the artery then, it is clear, that an inci- sion must be made above Poupart's ligament; that the aponeurosis of the external muscle must be raised; that the spermatic cord, and margin of the internal364 oblique and transversalis muscle, must be pushed upwards, with the handle of the scalpel, and the fin- gers ; that we must take care to avoid the epigastric artery; that we must raise the peritoneum from its attachment to the pubis; that the sheath of the vessels must be scratched through; that the vein be separated from the artery; and that the aneurismal needle be passed under the arteiy, from within, out- wards^ in order that the vein be not transfixed. Mr. Abernethy was the first who tied the extenial iliac artery, and the event of two of his cases, of those of Messrs. Freer, Tomlinson, and of other Surgeons, which have since occurred, proves, beyond a doubt, that this vessel may be tied with perfect isafety. ' ' Some of the French Surgeons, are, however, astonished at the boldness of English Surgery in this respect. Baron Larrey, in his Memmres de Chi- rurgie Militaire, ^c." a Work abounding in interest, objects to the operation, on the ground of its inutility; in consequence, as he says, of the dissection of almost all the subjects who had undergone the operation, havinff exhibited all the characters of an aneurismal diathesis. In aneurism of the femoral artery, high up in the thigh, it will be required to pass a ligature below Poupart's ligament. The remarks which we have3it)&:; made on the Anatomy of the groin, render it super- fluous to detail the steps of the operation. The artery bears the same rehitiou to the vein below Poupart's ligament, as it does above it. The crural nerve is so far removed from the artery, as not to be at ail in danger. When the external iliac, or upper portion of the femoral artery is obstructed, the blood passes into the lower extremity, principally, by the following branches. The internal iliac artery gives off the glutajal, which communicates with branches of the femoral and pro- funda ; also, the ischiatic and obturator, which anas- tomose with the circumflex branches of the profunda fempris •, and there are other collateral passages : by these means, the cumulation is sufficiently established for present purposes, and becomes free, in time, by the gradual enlargement of the inosculating branches. Sir Astley Cooper has published a minute accovmt of the anastomoses of the aa-teries at the groin, in the Fourth Volume of the " Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions.'''' 1.;. Popliteal anemisra, or aneurism of the popliteal artery, is treated by the application of a ligatm-e to the femoral artery, about the middle of the thigh, where the sartorius muscle crosses the vessel. The artery is enclosed in a sheath of condensed cellular membrane, accompanied by its vein. The ope- ration of tying the femoral artery, for popliteal366 aneurism, has been so frequently jperformed, as to leave no doubt on the mind, as to the efficacy of the treatment, and its freedom from danger. Th6 usual auastomosmg vessels are, the profunda and its branches, which communicate with the rami muscii- lares, and other branches of the femoral artery ; also, with the articular arteries of the popliteal. When the femoral artery is obliterated to the profunda branch, which is sometimes the case, even when the ligature is applied on the vessel low down, the rami perfdi rantes of the profunda femoi-is, and' the rami arlict^i lares of the popliteal, are the channels which'tli^ blood takes, to arrive at the lower jjart of the litnb. *'^^ In the dissection of the ham, wfe Md;''ulilSr the skin, much cellular membrane; and then a strdfag fascia which binds down the vessels and nerves of thi^l partiijwljich .ar& embedded in much fat, and celhila^^ membrane. The nerve first appears ; and close to the bone are, the popliteal artery, and vein. The ham- strings are formed by the tendons of the flexor mus- cles of the leg. The branches of the popliteal artery are, the superior external and internal, and the infe- rior external and internal articular ai-teries; and the arteriae surales, which are spent chiefly on the head St the gastrocnemius externus muscle. The articular anf- teries freely communicate with each other, and witil' the recurrent tibial, and by these, the circulation "i^' carried on, after the course of the blood in the itiaili^ trunk is stopped. . ^ i > -"-t-'367 (To tie the anterior tibial artery, just after it has perforated tlie interosseous ligament of the leg, we must disseet through the skin, and fascia, between the tibialis anticus, and the extensor communis muscles. The artery lies on the lig-ament, in company with the vensE comites and nerve. About a hand's breadth from the ankle, it is situated between the tibialis anticus, and the extensor longus pollicis; and on the anterior part of the foot, between the first tendon of the extensor communis, and the tendon of the extensor longus pol- licis. At the space, between the tarsal extremities of the meta-tarsal bone of the great toe, and toe next it, the artery dips into the sole of the foot. ^jl^ .,The posterior tibial artei7 lies deep, but may be reached at any part of its course. Behind the inner 9^nkle, too, the vessel may be tied: in this situation, the artery bears the same relations to the venae comites,> ajVid nerve, as it does higher up. m odT .ynrndai-nu 3,,,,The peroneal artery, below the middle of the leg, is situated at the posterior surface of the fibula. , ,i . When we trace the arteries of the leg and foot, we find fi-ee communications of the muscular branches of the trunks. At the ankles, the anterior tibial sends qff the rami malleolares externus et intemus, which anastomose with branches sent oiF about the joint by thCj posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries. The ante- rior tibial is then continued forwards under the annular368 ligament, and gives off the arteria nietatatsea, ^vI^ich furnisLes the interosseal branches. The anastomoticus profundus dips down, to inosculate with one of the plantar arteries of the" posterior tibial, to form the ai-cus plantaris, which supplies the digital branches. It is evident, after this view, that either the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial, or the jjeroneal artei-y, may be obliterated, without endangering, in the least, the after cii'culation in the leg and foot. When we w ere on the arteries of the fore-arm and handj we mentioned that the anastomoses between the branches of the radial, ulnar, and interosseal, were so free, that in case of wound of either of the two first, a ligatui-e was required at each extremity of the wounded vessel. The same remark applies to the treatment of a wound of either of the arteries of the leg and foot. A case has been communicated to me, of the division, by a hatchet, of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A Sm-geon was called, who cut down, and passed a ligature about the trunk, in the middle of the leg. After doing this, the bleeding continued from the wound, and it was found necessary to secure the vessel at the wounded part. The cause of the continuance of the hcemorrhage remained unexjjlained, until it so happened, that on dissecting an injected limb, a mal-distribution of the arteries of the leg was discovered. The anterior tibial terminated by dividing into numerous branches, which were distributed about the ankle-joints : and the pcro-369 neal, iustoad of being- expended at the ankle, was continued over the dorsum of the foot, and supplied the place of the anterior tibial vessel. This discovery induced a belief, that in the case above related, the arteries were mal-distributed in a similar way, and was applied to explain the reason why the bleeding was not checked, when the anterior tibial was tied. This explanation, however, is not so satisfactoiy, as that the avterj was fed by anastomosing branches; for the mal- disti-ibution mentioned, must be extremely rare, since I camiot find an example of the same variety in any Anatomical Work. .,, The Author here concludes his volume, which has far exceeded the proposed limits ; but he has been almost imperceptibly carried forwards, by the impor- tance of the subject. After all his labour, however, he cannot flatter himself, that the work is complete in its arrangement, or in its execution ; but he submits it to professional candour, and avows his willingness to avail himself of any suggestion that may improve it, or further tend to facilitate the acquirement of that knowledge, which has a direct influence on the hap- piness of mankind. 2 z■-■I ieisdii ■ ^tajioJi bnnCONTENTS. Introduction. Remarks on iMedico-Chirurcical Education.. Paget Preparatory Education—Necessity of studying Anatomy and Pliy- siology Error into which some have fallen as to the mauuer in which they should be studied—Motives of the Anatomist—Argunieuts in favour of Dissection—Interest and utility of Anatomy and Physiology The study of the Animal Oiconomy recommended as a branch of liberal education—Anatomy and Physiology are the basis of Medicine and Surgery—'Proofs of this—The questions, Is Anatomy more useful to the Surgeon than to the Physician? and, Ought the education of the Physician to be diflferent from that of the Surgeon? answered—Utility of Physiology—Auxiliary Sciences to Medicine and Surgery, as Che^ mistry, Botany, Natural Philosophy, &c. On THE Phenomena OF Life .. .. .. .. .4 Pageli Materials in Nature—Inorganic and organic substances—Laws which govern them—Differences between vegetable and animal sub- stances—On Life—Bichat's theory, as affording the fundamental dis- tinctions of Physiology, a tolerably perfeol system—Automatic, or organic life—Animal life—Principle of life not known—Phenomena of human life—Latent slate—Active state—Ovum contains the pri- mordium of the new animal—Anatomy of the ovum—Changes which the uterus undergoes, and functions of the foetus—Foetal circulation— Term of uterine existence—Change in the oeconomy of the child after birth—Anatomy of the child at birth—Changes from the progress of age, &c. On the Human Body Page'21 Summary of the parts which compose the human body.II. Particular Slruclures. Bone, Page 22.—The hardest aud strongest ginicttirc in the body Necessity for Ihis—Origin—Ossification—Osseous system at biiih Progress towards coniplelion—Process of re-union in frac- tures, governed by the same laws as that of original formation—Pro- cess exi)laiued—Idenlily shown between Physiology in health, and Physiology in the reparation of injnry—Composition of bone—Expe- riments and disease prove the existence of an animal and an earthy material Periosteum; its sirnclure and uses—Men;.braua meduUaris —Simplification of the Pathology of the osseous system, by showing its resemblance to that of soft parts—Certain differences which arise from tho quantily of inorganic matter which peculiarly characterizes the structure of bones—Order of study^Imporlance of studying the bones, relatively, and combined—Bones of the cranium—Sutures- Bones of the facB—Sulures—Trunk—Spioe—Thorax—Pelvis—Upper extremity-Lower extremity—Skeleton—Purposes to which it is sub- servient. Joints, Page 37.—Parts which enter into their composition— Peci;liarities of certain joints—Practical inferences to be deduced from a knowledge of structure, in the treatment of wounds, &c.—Necessity of studying the individual ariioulations. Muscles, Page 41.—Active organs of motion—Functions depen- dent un muscular action—How muscles should be classified, in order to apply this branch of Anatomy to Pathology—Composiiion—Opinion of the Ancients with regard to the structure of tendon, and proofs of ils being erroneous—Principle of muscular moliou—Established laws of irritability—State of the muscles in health, and in disease. Digestive System, Page 45—Teeth—Salivary Glands—(Eso- phagus—Storaach—1 ntestinal Canal—Liver—Pancreas—Spleen—Chy- mification-Chylification-Opinion of Physiologists on the infioence of the bile in chylificntion-Functions after this process is com- pleted—Mesenteric glands-Thoracic duct-Nature of chyle—Differ- ence of the chyle extracted from animal substances, and that from ve"-etable substances—rraciical inferences.III. Absoubent .system, PageSl.-Parts which form it-Sln.cl.ireof absoi-benls—Functions—Morbid consequences from loss of equili- brium between ihe funclions of nutri.ion and waste-This system can bfi rendered snbservient to the cure of disease—Absorbent glands, and the necessity of knowing their situation, &c. in order to trace the eilccts of irritation and absorbed poisons. Sanguiferous System, Page 57.—Heart—Mechanism of this organ. Arteries Their origin, distribution and termination — Structure. Veins Their origin, distribution, and termination — Structure. Circulation of the blood—Actions of the heart—Actions of the arteries, and proofs that they have an inherent power—Actions of the yeins—On the pulse—Pulse at different ages—How affected by tem- perament, stature, and disease—Different pulses. Respiratory System, Page 69.—Lungs—Functions—Change of colour in the blood—How produced—Animal heat—Natural tempe- ralure of the body—Nature of heat—Source of animal heat—Deterio- rating effects of respiration on atmospheric air—Proved by Blumen- bach's experiments—How the air is again purified—Illustration- Necessity for the constituent parts of the atmosphere being what they are—Oxygen gas—Too stimulating when alone—Nitrogen gas inca- pable nf supporting life—Proof—Carbonic acid gas highly deleterions -Other gases—Aeliou of gases on the Animal GEcunomy—Suspended animation—Organs of the voice—Coughing—Sneezing—Sighing— Yawning—Hiccup—Laughing. Blood, Page 81.—Analysis of serum—Analysis of crassamentum —Blood, the material used in the formation of new parts, and the resto. ration of those injured by accident and disease—Illustrations—Morbid conditions of this fluid—Hcemorrhage—How to discriminate between arterial and venous hcemorrhage—Natural process by which hcemor- rhage is suppressed—Artificial means-Effects of the ligature—Arte- ries requiring it.Secreting System, Page 87.—Physiology of secretion obscure ^Kinds of secreling organs—Classificalion of the secreted fluids ' Marrow—Synovia—Fluid of the bursae rauiosaj—Fluid of tlie dura mater, pleura, and peritoaeum—Saliva—Gastric juice—Fluid of the intestines—Uile—Bilious diseases—Biliary calculi—Pancreatic juice —Mucus of the alimentary passages—Liquor pericardii—Serous fluid of the heart, arteries, and veins—Mucus of the aerial passages Urine—Diseases of the urinary system—Urinary calculi Flnids of the nervous system—Tears—Meibomian secretion—Aqueous hnmoui' —Fluid of the capsule of the crystalline lens—Viireous humour Pig- mentum nigrum—Wax—Water of the labyrinth of the ear—Mucus of the Doslrils—Fluids of the mouth—Matter of perspiration Fluid of the tunica vaginalis reflexa—Semen—Fluid of the prostate gland Mucus of the urethra—Sebaceous fluid of the glans penis Fluids of the female organs—Fluids of the reticulated and adipose membrane* —Pathology of secreting organs. Nervous System, Page 107.—Principle of nervous energy un- known—-Bruin—New mode of dissection—Gall and Spnrzheim's ana- tomical opinions—Tiedemann's opinion—Necessity of caatiou,iu inclin- ing onr minds to any particular doctrine—Cerebrum—Cerebellum— Mednlla oblongata—Appearances worthy of notice in the cerebral mass—No positive knowledge of the uses of the individual parts of the brain-Spinal marrow—Nerves—l)ifi"erent structures possess dif- ferent degrees of sensibility; but all organized parts are provided witlt nerves—Terminations of nerves—Cerebral nerves—Spinal nerves— The nerves are the auxiliary instruments of seusatiaa and Toihion— . Nev? theory of the functions o-f nerves. Eye, Page 122.—Parts which compose it—On the appendages of the eye, and their uses—Source of the tears—Portal's opinion—Objec- tions toil—Muscles of the eye—Their action on the ball of the eye—; Adaption of the eye to view objects at different distances—The opinioiJj .. that it depends on the muscles altering the conformation of the eye, examined—Dr. Knox's opinion, that the ciliary Jigameat is niusoular, and that this is the agent of adjustment—Tunica sclerotica—Tunica choioides—Liganientum ciliare—Iris—Ciliary processes—OpinionsV. respeclin? the structure of llie iris—Most probable opinion—Retina— Aqueous humour—Crystalliue lens—Vitreous humour—Arteries of the eje Nerves of the eye«—Opinions ou the decussation of the optic nerves Laws of optics—Vision—Causes of imperfect vision—How remediable—Pathology of the eye—Treatment of its morbid conditions. Eau, Page 140.—Division—Cartilages—Meatus auditorios exter- nus—Ceruminous glands—Membrana tympani—Sir Everard Home's opinion that it is muscular—This opinion not necessary to explain its function in the human ear—The membrana tympani has no aperture naturally, but an unentire state of it is not incompatible with its function—Tympanum—Parts communicating with this cavity—Laby- rinth Principles of acoustics—Media of sound—Exemplified in the human ear—Concentration of sound—Reflection of sound—Function of hearing—Theory of Mr. Swan, that sound may be conveyed to the organs of hearing by impressions made upon the facial nerves— How applicable to the instruction of the Deaf and Dumb—Pathology of the ear—Means of determining, if the cause of deafness be seated in the external or internal ear—Illustration. ""'tsTose, Page 149.—Sense of smell. Tongue, Page 150.—Sense of taste—Morbid indications furnished- by the tongue. Skin, Page 153.—Cuticle—Rete mucosum—Cutis vera—Sense of touch—Other functions of the skin—Its sympathy with other organs, the frequent cause of disease—Illustrations—Appendices to the skin—»| Nails, and hair. Reproductive System, Page 156.—On the extinction of the species without this provision of Nature—Organs of re-production in the male—Organs of re-production in the female—Physiology of the unimpregnated uterus—On conception, and why obscure—&c. On the Connecting Medium of the Organs of the Body, Page 162.—Reticular membrane—Adipose membrane.VI. On Rei.ative Position; or Medico-Chirurgical Views OF THE Human Body .. Page 165 HEAD. CiiANlUM, Page 169.—Views preseuled by ihe bones in tlieir united state—Coverings of the cranium—Relation between iVie exter- nal and internal parts of the head—Explanation thus afforded of certain pathological facts—Comparative liability of the different bones lo frac- ture— Effects of injuries of the head—Concussion—Compression— Summary of practice in cases of injury of the head—The trephine— Hey's sew—The most objectionable places to the application of the trephine—Illustrations—Arteries of the scalp—Arteriotomy—Aneu- rism of the temporal artery. Face, Page 183.—Cheeks—Certain morbid phenomena oonnecled with the muscles of the face—Parotid gland and duct—Effects of injuries of the parotid duct—Nerves of the face—Tic douloureux, or neuralgia—Arteries of the face—Mnseles of the lower jaw—Articula- tion—Dislocation of the lower jaw. Eye, Page 193—Appendages—Reflection of the tunica conjunc- tiva—Practical points—Lachrymal apparatus—Fistula lachrymalis. Nose, and Nasat. Cavities, Page 197.—Nostrils—Parts com- municating with them—Pituitary membrane—Polypi—Epistasis— Plugging the nostril—Antrum HIghmorianum—Pathology of the antrum. The Mouth, Page 203.—Division—Anterior cavity—Lining membrane of the mouth—Tongue, and its connections—Velum pen- dulum palati—Uvula—Tonsil glands—Cynanche tonsillaris—Termiaa- (ious Cautions necessary in puncturing the tonsil glands, to give exit to matter—Chronic enlargement—Treatment—Fauces—Hounda- j-ies—Communications betwetu the nostrils und the fauces—Introduc- tion of tubes into the pharynx and larynx—Artificial respiration— Passing a probe into the Eustachian lube.VII. TRUNK. Sp.ve Ph-e 213.-On tUe vertebrx and joi«(s of ibe spine-Me- 7oI su. aen.a.u. .hieb proved fa.al-Effec. of fracu-es lid dis oca.ion.-The.e injunc. se.do. ndn.U of rel.e , «ben bo are vio.ent-^Yby .be .u.c.es of the spine .honld be stnd.ed- action on the vertebra. co.nn,n_Distor.ions of -he .p.ne- C.„.es_Par.icu,ar opinions-On the .u.Ces as the ".en.s of ce U a lateral incurva.ious_Trealn>ent founded on th.s .uppos,.>o„->ece^ sit, of forming an accurate diagnosis of curvature, as no part.cula. practice is applicable in all cases. Neck Page aai—Anatcmy exceedingly complicated-Why it should be well studied-Relation of the internal to the extern., parts -Superficial parts of the neck-Bleeding from the external jugular vein-Why preferable in many respects to venesection to any other part-Deep parts of the neck-Connection vvith the carotid artery- Practical Poin.s-Anenrism-Treatment-Old operation for th.s disease-Why abandoned-New operation-Its efTecls-Necess-ty for inquiring into the anastomosing vessels before the operation is deter- Jned on-Ar.eries that may safely be.secured-Case in wh.ch the aorta was tied-Case in >vhich the arteria iunominata was t.ed-^o reason, judging from experiment, why this operation might t.ot sue ceed-Parts concerned in the operation of tying the carotid-Cucu- latiott afterwards-Necessary cautions-Anatomy of the angle and base of the jaw-Anatomy of the central part of the „eck-Broncho- cele-Case in which the carotid arteries were displaced by the tumour-Nature of bronchocele-Most probably enlalle^ on children by their parents-Remedies-Practicability of extirpating the gland- Objection-How removed-Necessary steps in the operafon-Other disea.es which may be confounded with bronchocele-How -.t may be mistaken for aneurism-Circumstances requiring an opening to be made into the aerial passage-Laryngotomy-In what cases the best operation-Tracheotomy-Ulustrations of its being preferable m other ca«es-Laryngo-traoheotomy-Laryngotomy the most simple and safe operation-Why ?-Cases of cynanohe laryngea-ffidema glottid.s, 3 Aviri. aii(J paralysis of the muscles of the larynx, in which tracheotomy succeeded—GE»ophag:u»—Sufroealion—Tfcatment—CE*ophagotomy— Parts concerned in this operalioh—&c. Thorax, Page 249.—Important frnm- its containing organs the most essential to life—How the viscera are protected-Basis of the soft.parts—Soft parts of the parietes—Deranijcment in fractures of the oostce—General view of the viscera—Mediastlna—Reflection of the pleura—Effects of inflanitnation on the function of the pleura- Common causes assigned for hydrothorax—Probability of error in this opinion—New theory—Accumulation of blood and pus-Symptoms- Case in which the existence of empyema was not suspected—Paracen- tesis thoracis—lis safely and expediency cotisidered—Agents of respi- ration-»-Slate of the lungs in respiration—Practical dedociion—New mode of treating consumption of the lungs—Its efficiency and ineffi- ciency explained—Practical inferentes deduced from our knowing the state of the lungs in respiration—Emphysema—Pericardium—Propo-. sal to puncture it in Hydrops pericardii—Situation of the heart,.its parts, and vessels going to, and proceeding from it—Importance of., knowing the situation of the arch of the aorta—Wounds of the heart —Diseases—Diseases of the thoracic organs obscure—New method of distinguishing them—Nerves of the chest—Par vagum—Syropa- thetics—Phrenic nerves—Intercostals—Morbid sympathy—Influence of the nerves ou the mechanism of respiration. Abdomen, Page 271.—Abdomen properly so called—Relation of the infernal to the external parts in the horizontal position of the body Importance of knowing it—Changes produced by position and age— Effect of position in changing the situation of the kidnies—Practical.. remarks—On the parietes of the abdomen—Remarks on Iheir power of adaptation to the viscera which they enclose—Peritoneum—Reflec- tion in the male—Reflection in the female—Pathology—Paracentesis abdominis—Relative position of (he abdominal viscera—Blood-vessels and nerves—Diseases of the viscera—PecuPiarities in symptoms—Ho w the position of the thofacic ahd abdominal organs may be rcci- prucally affected—Diaphragm—lis connections with organs—llsim-^ portance iu a physiological and pathological point of view. ^ ^ tatJiMtIX. Bony structure of the pelyis in the mafe—Importance of knowing il—Connections—Practical observations—Axis of the pelvis under dif.' ferent circumstances—Soft parts >vhich line the bones—Iniporiant practical considerations—Cantents of the male pelvis—Perinaum Practical points—Side view—Urinary organs particularly examined— Urethra—Importanpe of knowing its curve, dilatations, and contrac- tions—Bony pelvis iu the female—Its admeasurements—Dimensions of the head of a child at birth—Obstetric observations—Soft parts of the female pelvis—Changes which the viscera and parts connected with them undergo from different causes—Catheterism—Side view— Lithotomy in the female—Its performance superseded by mechanical dilatation—Cases—Wounds of the parietes of the abdomen—Why dan- gerous—Wounds of the viscera—&c. UPPER EXTREMITY .. Page 307. Bones of the shoulder—Shoulder.joint—Accidents—Bone of the arm—Elbow-joint—Accidents—Bonosof the forearm and hand—Joints —Bursse mucosae of the wrist—Case where a morbid accumulation of the natural secretion of a bursa was mistaken for aneurism—Relation of the hard to the soft parts—On the muscles—On the actions of mus- cles—Their influence in producing the signs of the different fractures —Agents of displacement in dislocations—Practical deductions- Arteries, veins, and nerves—Anatomico-chirurgical view of the sub- clavian artery and its connections—Operation of tying it—Circulation afterwards—Anatomico-chirurgical view of the axilla below the clari- cle, and in the depth of the arm-pit—Anatomico-chirurgical views of the brachial artery—Anatomy of the bend of the arm—Cautions iu venesection—Ulnar, radial, and iuierosseal arteries—Anastomoses- Practical inferences—&c. LOWER EXTREMITY Page 330. Bones of the thigh—Hip-joiut—Accidents—Dislocations—Frac- tures of the cervix femoris—Opposite opinions as to re-union in these cases—Inferences to be drawn—Knee-joint—Accidents—Bones of the Ug and foot—Ankle-joint—Accidents—Tarsal and metatarsal joints- Relation of the hard to the soft parts—Ou the muscles—On the actions of muscles—Their influence in producing the signs of fraclures, &c.—Arletics, veins, and nerves—Anaslomico-cliimrgical views of the groin—Parts concerned in inguinal lierniae—Anatomy of oWicjue inguinal hernia—Anatomy of direct inguinal hernia—Anatomy of congenital hernia—Hydrocele in childreu—Variety of congenital hernia—Parts concerned in femoral hernia-Anatomy of femoral hernia—Practical inferences deduced from a knowledge of Anatomy —Works to be consulted—Other heruisc—Anatomico-chirurgienl vie« of the external iliac artery-Operation of tying it-Circulation afier- wards—Anntomico-chirurgical view of the femoral artery—CircnlaiioH after this vessel is.tied—Anatomico-chirurgical view of the ham—The anterior tibial artery-The posterior tibial artery-anastomotic!— Practical inferences—&c.—Conclusion. FINIS. Aston, Primer. Manchester.