ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. 2 the general science of organic forms, i.e. the science of Morphology.1 2. The body of man has a more or less rounded outline, and its various surfaces are curved. Moreover, as everyone knows, it is made up of different parts and organs—hard and solid structures (bones) being enclosed by soft and pulpy flesh. Indeed nearly all parts of man's body contain much water : thus even 70 per cent, of the human brain is com- posed of that fluid. As to chemical composition, most ingredients of the human body (unlike the fat) contain nitrogen ; while a peculiar organic substance termed protein"2 (formed of the gases oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and of the solid element carbon) constitutes its basis and foundation. 3. Man's body is evidently divisible into head, trunk, and limbs. Certain symmetrical relations and contrasts between dif- ferent parts of the human frame are obvious. Thus there is a contrast between its anterior and its hinder aspect, and this contrast extends along each limb to the ends of the fingers and toes. The hinder aspect in all cases is termed " dorsal," the anterior one " ventral," and, indeed, we familiarly speak of the back of the hand. Again, there is a resemblance (and at the same time a con- trast) between the right and left sides, which correspond with tolerable exactitude one to the other. This harmony, termed bilateral symmetry, though obvious externally, does not in man extend to the internal organs (or viscera), which are more or less unsymmetrically disposed. Thirdly, there is a resemblance and correspondence between parts placed successively, as, for example, between the arm and the leg, or between the hand and the foot; although this relation is less obvious than it might be, owing to the differ- ent directions in which the knee and elbow are bent. Such a symmetry is termed serial, and is thus externally visible ; but it is more manifest on a deeper examination, where we find successive parts like the ribs or the pieces of the back- bone, which obviously resemble each other more or less, and so are called by a common name, while as they are placed in " series " they are excellent examples of serial symmetry. 4. As is familiar to all, man's body consists of a solid frame- 1 Morphology, from the Greek words ixopcpn, form, and \6-yoc, discourse. 2 Protein, from npZme, first; npiareneiv, to be the first; Trpure'iov, the first place ; because it holds the first place in relation to the albuminous principles.