84 [less. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. in the inner wall of the orbit as what is called the os planum. which is bounded above by the frontal, behind by the sphe- noid, in front by the lachrymal, and below by the maxilla. The inner surface is swollen and irregular. That part of it immediately below the cribriform plate is called the upper spongy bone, or superior turbinate, or turbinal,1 the part below being termed the middle turbinate. Besides the junctions already noted, the ethmoid unites with the sphenoid behind, and with the nasals, vomer, lachry- mals, palatines, and lower turbinate bones (or turbinals). 8. The MAXILLARY bone supports on each side the teeth of the upper jaw, and forms the bulk of that jaw, and con- tributes to form the cheek, the orbit, the nasal passage, and the palate. The two maxillary bones meet in the middle line below the anterior nares, where each projects as a sharp process—the anterior nasal spine. Each sends up a prolongation (the nasal process) to the frontal, bounding the inner side of the orbit anteriorly, and having at its hinder side a lachrymal bone, and on its anterior side a nasal bone. Its hinder surface exhibits a vertical groove. On the opposite or external side the maxillary bone sends a process outwards, which joins the malar, and is called the malar process. Above, the bone exhibits a smooth hori- zontal surface (the orbital plate), which forms the floor of the orbit. In front the bone has a concavity, termed the canine fossa, between which and the lower margin of the orbit is a foramen (called infra-orbital) which transmits the second branch of the fifth nerve. From within the alveolar bor- ESSE der fch »?*illa sends inwards infra orbital foramen. a palatine plate, which is joined by the palate bone posteriorly, but which internally meets its fellow of the opposite side, except where the opening of the anterior palatine canal separates them. In the body of the bone is a large cavity called the Cave » f riighmore, or the Antrum Highmori. 1 So called from being curved like a turbinated shell. 3 Fig. 88.—Front View of the Right Orbit of Man. a, greater wing of the sphenoid ; _/ frontal bone ; /, lachrymal ; !e, os planum ; m, malar ; mx,