[less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. 232 of one bone only, as in the pectoral arch, we have the con- currence of two (the pubis and ischium), separated from each other by an interspace—the obturator foramen. We have seen, however, that both a coracoid and a pre- coracoid may exist on the ventral aspect of the pectoral girdle, so that this difference also disappears on a more extended survey. Such a survey nevertheless reveals some other differ- ences, as nothing in the pectoral girdle clearly corresponds with the marsupial bones, large ilio-pectineal processes, and os cloacae, all of these being parts which are occasionally developed in the pelvic girdle of different animals. The femur is constantly a single bone in all Vertebrates. In man it differs from the humerus in that the radial (or pre-axial) tuberosity is the larger of the two, while in the femur the tibial (or pre-axial) trochanter is the smaller of the two. But this difference disappears when we extend our view, as the relative size of the trochanters varies in different forms, as is the case with the tuberosities. 22. The knee-joint is directed forwards, and thus markedly differs from the elbow-joint. When, however, the rudi- mentary pelvic limb first appears, the leg is so placed that the knee-joint is directed outwards, thus agreeing with the primitive position of the thoracic limbs. Later, the knee becomes rotated forwards. In this latter position there is no necessity for any pronation of the leg-bones to enable the sole of the foot to be applied to the ground, and the absence of this necessity constitutes a difference between the arm and the leg. We have seen, how- ever, that a sort of rudimentary pro- and supi-nation becomes possible in some Marsupials ; and in some other animals (as the Flying Lemur, and especially the Tortoises) the position of both the pectoral and pelvic limbs is similar—through the elbow, knee, and the extensor surfaces being all directed outwards in both limbs. In Bats the thigh is turned backwards, so that the knee bends backwards like an elbow ; and here, were it necessary to apply the sole to the ground with the digits forwards, a pronation of the leg-bones would be required. 23. The skeleton of the leg, like that of the arm, is divisible into a tri- and bi-digital series, placed side by side. Thus there is, first, the tibia; the astragalus and naviculare ; the three cuneiform bones; the first, second, and third meta- tarsals ; and the corresponding digits—forming the tri-digital series.