ELEMENTAR V ANA TOMY. [less. no it may also be represented by the sphenotic, which in bony Fishes unites with the pterotic to furnish the point of suspen- sion for the lower jaw. The so-called external pterygoid process of man is really but an outgrowth of the alisphenoid, and must be considered with it. This part is absent in all animals below Birds, and in Birds where it exists, e.g. in the Finches (Fringilla), it is represented by but a single or double ridge. In Mammals generally, however (except the Echidna), it is present, and more or less as in man, though mostly it is larger and less deep vertically. The external carotid artery may pierce the root of this part (as in the Dog), forming thus a special bony channel called the alisphenoid canal. The third branch of the fifth nerve may pass more anteriorly with regard to this bone than in man, as is the case in the Sheep. On the other hand, it gene- rally passes out altogether behind it. A vidian canal is often much more conspicuous than in him, e.g. in the lower Apes. A distinct foramen rotundum is often present and often absent.* In the latter case, the second branch of the fifth nerve passes out through the sphenoidal fissure, as e.g. in the Hare, Squirrel, and Stag, Each of the lesser wings of the sphenoid is termed in zootomy an orbilo-spkenoid, and in some forms, e.g. in Rumi- nants, the proportion they bear to the alisphenoid is the reverse of that which obtains in man, so that the application to them generally of the name they bear in anthropotomy, "lesser-wings," would be manifestly out of place. These bones are constantly present in man's class, but, unlike the alisphenoid, are often absent in the class of Birds, though present in many kinds (e.g. Accipiter and Tinamus). They are mere rudiments in most Reptiles—often altogether absent —though they maybe developed in Lizards. In Batrachians they may be well developed, or coalesce (as in Frogs and Toads) with the ethmoid in a way to be described in treating of that bone. In Fishes they are generally absent, but may be well developed, as in the Carp, where however they form one bone with the pre-sphenoid. Occasionally, as in the Hare, they may be so disposed as to constitute a median, interorbital septum, the two optic fora- mina having become merged one in the other. The optic foramen may be excessively minute, as in some Insectivora, and there may be a foramen passing from orbit to orbit beneath it, as in Macroscelides.