THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 45-r It is placed rather to the right side of the body, imme- diately beneath the diaphragm and above the stomach, and lies within the cartilages of the ribs. The aorta, vena cava, and the crura of the diaphragm are interposed between it and the bodies of the vertebras, whence it extends to the front of the abdominal cavity and to its right and left sides. It is a solid organ, of a dull reddish-brown colour, smooth and convex above, concave and uneven below. It is divisible into certain parts (or lobes), which are defined partly by grooves and notches, partly by ligaments and blood-vessels. In the Tenth Lesson of the present course was described how blood is conveyed to the liver from the viscera by the portal vein, and from the liver to the adjacent vena cava by the hepatic veins, while the nutritive blood from the aorta is distributed to the liver by the hepatic artery, itself a branch of the cceliac axis. It was also noted how in an early stage of development a stream of blood is conveyed by a temporary vessel, the umbilical vein, which in part joins the vena porta, in part sends small branches into the liver, and in part directly unites with the vena cava by a temporary canal called the ductus venosus. Now the liver, when viewed above, is seen to be divisible into two unequal parts, one right and the other left, by means of a membranous ligament (called the broad or falciform ligament) which descends to it from the adjacent surface of the diaphragm and consists of two folds of peritoneum, as will be hereafter explained. This ligament is attached to the liver in a line running from the posterior margin of that organ to its anterior one, and the part of the liver on the left of the ligament is much smaller than that on its right. Viewing the liver on its under surface (Fig. 383), there may be seen a deep groove opposite to and corresponding with the attachment of the broad ligament (called the longitudinal fissure), which lodges a fibrous cord (called the round liga- ment). The anterior part of this cord (which passes backwards to the liver from the navel) is the remnant of the primitive umbilical vein, while the posterior part is similarly a relic of the ductus venosus. On this account the anterior part of the longitudinal fissure is called the umbilical fissure, while its pos- terior part is named the fissure of the ductus venosus (Fig. 385). This longitudinal fissure then divides the liver into two unequal lobes on its under surface, and the larger of these lobes is again subdivided by other fissures. Thus a small prominent lobe (called Spigelian) is placed at the hinder G G 2