ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 458 ultimately disappears with the exception of the serous mem- brane coating it, and thus, the two serous coats of its two sides meeting together, the alimentary canal comes to be slung by means of them from the skeletal axis in a peritoneal fold, or, as it is called, mesentery. In man and in allied animals, however, the alimentary canal is very tortuous and convoluted, and has annexed to it many complex accessory structures. Thus the lining peritoneal membrane, passing from one digestive organ to another and wrapping them round in various degrees and with various adhesions, comes to form a wonderfully complex structure. In man, beginning from the under surface of the dia- phragm, we find a fold' of peritoneum constituting the falci- form ligament, before described, attaching the liver to the diaphragm. The peritoneum then descends, coating the abdominal aorta and. inferior vena cava. It also descends, and coats the liver. From the under surface of the liver it again descends to the stomach, in a double fold of membrane called the gastro-hepatic omentum. It next encloses the stomach and also the spleen. It also invests the intestines except the greater part of the rectum, but it coats the anterior surface of that gut as well as the upper and inner surface of the bladder. From between the stomach and the transverse colon, a great, free, apron-like flap of peritoneum, called the great omentum, hangs down loosely in front of the bowels. This great complex bag, the peritoneum, exists in all Ver- tebrates, but in lower forms is greatly simplified in conformity with the simple arrangement of the viscera (Fig. 390). In Fishes its cavity sometimes communicates with the exterior by two apertures placed near the external termination of the alimentary canal, as e.g. in the Lamprey, Eel, Salmon, and others. It may communicate by a single opening placed further forwards, as in the Lancelet. It may communicate with the pericardium, e.g. in Myxine, the Sturgeon, and Sharks, as was indicated in describing the diaphragm. It may, as in most Reptiles, and in Batrachians and Birds, line uninterruptedly the thoracic and abdominal cavity, forming one pleuro-peritoneal sac ; thus differing from man (and Mammals), in whom, as we shall see in the next Lesson, •the thorax has its own proper serous sac, that muscular par- tition, the diaphragm, dividing the two cavities in Mammals. The peritoneum may be delicate and transparent, as in man. It is so in his class generally, and in Eirds. It may, how- ever, be black, as is sometimes the case in Reptiles and