295 THE MUSCLES. of the humerus and from the coronoid process of the ulna, and proceeds obliquely across to the outer side of the radius. The flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle and is inserted by a tendon into the second metacarpal. The palmaris longus also springs from the inner condyle, and ends in a fibrous expansion in the palm of the hand. The flexor carpi ulnaris arises partly from the same con- dyle, partly from the olecranon (the ulnar nerve passing between these origins). It is inserted by tendon into the pisiform bone and the fifth metacarpal. The flexor sub limis digitorum is (as its name implies) the superficial bender of the fingers. It takes origin from the inner condyle, the coronoid process of the ulna, and part of the front surface of the radius. It divides near the wrist into four tendons, which go respectively to the second phalanx of each of the four digits. Each tendon splits (before it is inserted) to allow a tendon of the deep flexor tendon to pass through it—whence the superficial flexor is also called the perforatus. The flexor profundus digitorum or perforans arises from the ulna and from the membrane connecting that bone with the radius. Above the wrist it gives rise to four tendons which are respectively inserted into the disto1 phalanges of the four fingers, each tendon passing through the split before mentioned as existing in each tendon of the perforated flexor. The lumbricales are small worm-like muscles (whence their name) which arise, in the hand, from the deep flexor tendons on their radial side, and are inserted into the same side of the respective four fingers. Flexor longus pollicis is the name of a muscle which— arising from the fore part of the radius and being inserted by a long tendon into the last phalanx of the pollex—bends the thumb. Pronator quaaratus. A short muscle thus named extends across from the radius to the ulna towards their distal ends. Supinator longus. A muscle which antagonises the pro- nators, springs from above the external condyle of the humerus and is inserted into the outer border of the distal end of the radius. The extensores carpi radialis longior and brevior are two muscles which arise, one over the other, from above the external condyle of the humerus, and end each in a tendon ; the first being inserted into the second metacarpal, and the second tendon into the middle metacarpal.