THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 377 IX.] and the pituitary body (fit) below. The wall at the anterior end of the first vesicle (or fore-brain) is the lamina terminalis (/). 3. This figure shows the cerebrum (cr) budding from the first vesicle, its anterior part (<?) being prolonged as the olfactory lobe (the so-called olfactory nerve), the cavity of the cerebrum (or incipient lateral ventricle) communicating with that of the olfactory lobe in front and with that of the first cerebral vesicle (third ventricle) behind. The latter communication takes place through the foramen of Monro. The walls of the three primitive vesicles are becoming of unequal thickness, and the cavity (b) of the middle vesicle {iter a tertio ad qziartum voitriculum) is becoming reduced in relative size. 4. The cerebrum is here enlarged, and the inequality in thickness of the wall of the primitive vesicles is increased. Ihe thickened upper part of the wall of the cerebrum is the fornix {/)■ 5. This figure shows the cerebrum still more enlarged, and with a tri-radiate cavity (/, 1, 2, 3). The fornix has now come to look slightly downwards ; dotted lines indicate the downward extension of its anterior part, into the corpora mammillaria. 6. Here the cerebrum is still more enlarged and backwardly extended. The fornix is shown bordering the descending cornu and extending into the temporal lobe [tl) of the cerebrum, which lobe is destined to descend (when the brain is fully developed) so much more that it comes to advance forwards, as in Fig. 325. The fornix borders the margin of the very thin outer wall of the descending cornu, which when torn forms the fissure of Bichat. The bending back of the cerebrum has now almost enclosed (between the fornix and the velum) the space (x) which in Fig. 4 is widely open, making what is morphologically called the outside of the brain come practically to be in its very centre. a, fore-brain ; b, mid-brain ; c, hind-brain ; cb, cerebellum; cr, cerebrum ; d, cavity of the medulla ; f, fornix ; /, lateral ventricle ; m, medulla oblongata ; ma, corpora mammillaria ; o, olfactory lobe ; p, pons Varolii; pi, pineal gland ; pt, pituitary body ; q, corpora quadrigemina ; r, crura cerebri ; /, lamina terminalis; //, temporal lobe of the cerebrum ; x, space enclosed by the extension backwards of the cerebrum ; 1, anterior cornu of lateral ventricle ; 2, its middle or descending cornu , 3, its posterior cornu. The velum consists only of the ependyma, the pia mater, and the arachnoid. Its margins are very vascular, and bear the name of the choroid plexuses. The vascularity continues in that part of the ependyma which passes through the foramen of Munro into the lateral ventricles, but of course the pia mater and arachnoid do not pass through that fora- men, as they never get inside the ventricles at all, but are reflected back on the under surface of the fornix. Thus the " choroid plexuses " of the lateral ventricles are (like those ot the third) merely portions of the ependyma, which happen to be very vascular, and not intrusions from without. Each cerebral hemisphere is a bag with walls of very un- equal thickness. Thus, part of the inner wall running along the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle is reduced to the ependyma (with the pia mater and arachnoid), and readily tears (forming the fissure of Bichat), and this rupture having been mistaken for a natural opening, each lateral ventricle has been supposed to communicate with the exterior close to the crus cerebri. Each corpus striatum is an out-