THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. IX.] D d 2 limbs, above Fishes. It may be, however, as e.g. in Meno- fioma, that the posterior tibial is divided into two nerves, thus making the correspondence between the nerves of the pectoral and pelvic limbs more unmistakable than it is in man, in whom but a single leg-nerve (the posterior tibial) answers to both the median and ulnar of the arm. In Fishes we find great variety as to the nerve supply of the hinder members (ventral fins). Thus, small branches from the ventral nerves of the fourth pair of spinal nerves may be distributed to the ventral fins, as is the case in thoracic and jugular Fishes ; or from the seventh and eighth spinal nerves, as in the Carp ; or finally, as in the Sharks and Rays, the ventral fins may be supplied by more posterior spinal nerves, and by as many as six of them. In man the nerves for the extensor muscles pass out post- axially as regards the scapula, pre-axially as regards the pelvis ; but both the corresponding set of nerves may pass out post-axially, as e.g. in Menopoma. 30. The sympathetic system is made up of an immense number of small nerves and ganglia closely connected with the arteries and with the viscera, and proceeding from two longitudinal gangliated cords which extend upwards and downwards one on each side of the ventral aspect of the ske- letal axis from the pre-sphenoid to the coccyx. The visceral nerves in passing to the various organs they supply, traverse those folds of membrane (the mesenteries) which, as we shall see, suspend the viscera from the backbone. In the head, filaments of this system communicate with all the true cranial nerves {i.e. with all but the so-called " optic " and " olfactory " nerves), and below the head the successive ganglia unite with the corresponding spinal nerves by the filaments which, as before mentioned, pass from the latter to the sympathetic. Thus, in fact, the sympathetic system may be but a series of internal branches of the spinal nerves of each side of the body. In this case each spinal nerve must be considered as dividing into three branches. One of these branches follows the line of the ascending dorsal lamina of the embryo—as a dorsal nerve. Another of these follows the line of the outer plate of the bifurcating ventral lamina of the embryo—as an abdominal nerve. The third branch—viz. the filament to the sympathetic and its continuation—follows the line of the internal plate of the bifurcating ventral lamina of the embryo. If, then, this view is correct, the sympathetic system essen-