ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. 2l8 The fundamental facts of development (noticed in the Second Lesson) must also be borne in mind : how the dorsal laminae ascend and form the neural canal, and how the ventral laminae descend to form the trunk. Also, how each of these ventral laminae splits longitudinally on each side into an outer plate, forming the body-wall (bones, muscles, nerves, &c), and an inner plate, forming the alimentary canal and its ap- pendages—the split laminae being united respectively at their ventral ends. Fig. 187.—Diagram of the development of the Trunk and its Skeleton, as shown in a section made at right angles to the trunk's long axis. nc) neural canal ; ex, epaxial cartilages ascending to surround it; fix, paraxial cartilages de- scending in the plate, or layer {Ive), external to fifi, the pleuro-peritoneal cavity; Ivi, internal plate of the split ventral lamina. Between these outer and inner plates is a space (to be treated of in the Eleventh Lesson) called the pleuro-peritoneal cavity, which thus separates the external tube of the trunk from the alimentary tube internal to it. Not only the alimentary tube, but also the heart and the roots of the great vessels which proceed from it, are, as we shall hereafter see, placed within the inner wall of this pleuro-peritoneal cavity. 6. The central axis of the skeleton is evidently the noto- chord with the structures immediately investing it, together with those which generally—by ossification—replace or en- croach upon it later in the development of the individual. In one single form, the Lancelet, and in that only, the noto- chord extends forwards to the front end of the body, and much beyond the spinal marrow, the anterior end of which is the only representative of the, brain. In all other forms the notochord stops short behind the pituitary fossa or the part representing it. Nevertheless, median parts in the same axial line with the notochord may be formed, sas the pre-sphenoid, which is as it were a supplemental piece of the axis added on later to the primitive termination of the skeletal central axis.