iv. SKELETON OF UPPER LIMB. 151 7. The CARPUS consists of eight small bones arranged in two transverse series. The bones of the upper, or proximal row, are: (1) the scaphoides1 (or scaphoid bone); (2) the lunare (or semi-lunar bone) ; (3) the cuneiforme (or wedge-shaped bone); and (4) the pisiforme (or pea-shaped bone). The first two together form an upper convex surface which fits into the distal articular cup of the radius. ' The pisiforme stands out freely, and is rather a supple- mentary ossification of a tendon (a kind of extra ossification often occurring in different places) than a true bone of the wrist. It is a small bone. The bones of the lower, or distal row, are : (1) the trapezium; (2) the trapezoidesj (3; the magnumj (4) the unciforme. These bones together form an undulating upper articular surface, there being a concavity on the radial side to receive a prominence of the scaphoid, and in the middle a strong convexity fitting into the cup formed by the distal sufraces of the.three radial (or outer) carpals of the proximal row. Distally, the second row of carpals presents varied surfaces for the reception of the proximal ends of the bones of the middle, solid, part of the hand (the metacarpus), which are called metacarpals. The magnum is the largest bone of the distal series, while the unciforme articulates with and supports two metacarpals, namely, the fourth and fifth. The trapezium presents a saddle-shaped surface to the first metacarpal, being concave in one direction and convex in another. 8. The METACARPALS are five elongated bones, each with a rounded head and a base moulded to suit the surface of the adjoining part of the carpus. The first metacarpal (that of the thumb) is shorter than the others, and differs from them by its mode of ossification, its epiphysis being situate only at its proximal end, while in each of the other metacarpals there is an epiphysis at the distal end only. The proximal surface of the first metacarpal is deeply concave, to suit the saddle-shaped surface of the trapezium— its support. 9. The thumb and four fingers are called " digits" in zootomy, each having a further distinguishing name. Thus the first digit, or thumb, is termed the po//ex. 1 From a-KCKpr,, a boat.