r4S ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. The hinder surface of the shaft presents an oblique groove (called musculo-spiral), passing from above downwards. The upper end of the humerus shows a large, rounded head, covered, when fresh, with cartilage and articulated to the glenoid surface of the scapula by a synovial joint, while a fibrous bag (or capsular ligament) invests the whole articu- lation! The head is placed, not on the middle of the summit, but on its inner and hinder aspect, so that its axis does not coin- cide with that of the shaft. A little below and on the outer side of the head are two blunt prominences. One of these, termed the greater (or radial) tuberosity, is on the outer side of the summit of the bicipital groove. The other is called the lesser (or ulnar) tuberosity, and is placed on the inner side of the bicipital groove. The lower end of the humerus expands considerably, having a lateral prominence, termed a condyle, on each side, but the internal condyle projects further inwards than does the external condyle outwards. Between these projections is placed the lower articular surface of the humerus for the bones of the fore-arm. This articular surface is irregularly concave and convex. At its outer part is a rounded prominence, called the caftitellum, which joins the outer bone of" the fore-arm or radius. Internal to this is a pulley-like surface (the trochlea), which joins the inner bone of the fore-arm or ulna. There is a deep cavity in front of the humerus immediately above the trochlea. This is called the coronoid fossa, because it receives the coronoid process of the ulna. There is another fossa, also above the trochlea, but on the hinder surface of the humerus. This is called the olecranal fossa, from the part of the ulna which it receives when the arm is straightened. Sometimes a perforation connects together these two fossae The ends and processes of the humerus ossify separately as epiphyses, and coalesce at about the twentieth year. 5. The RADIUS is also a long cylindrical bone, expanded more or less at each end and flattened in front, i.e. when the arm is dependent and the palm turned forwards. Towards its upper end the bone, just above a roughened prominence—the "tuberosity" — is narrowed into what is called the neck, from which rises the head, concave above <and articulating by a synovial joint with the capitellum