ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. The continuity of the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the limbs with the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the body, as also the correspondence between the dorsal (and ventral) surfaces of the two pairs of limbs, may be more plainly exhibited than in man. Thus in many tortoises both the knee and the elbow are rather turned outwards, than the former forwards and the latter backwards, as is also the case in the Flying-Lemur (GaleopWiecus) amongst beasts. Bilateral symmetry is common to man and the majority of animals. It may, however, be much less com- Fig. 10.—The Flying-Lemur plete than in him, as in the flat {Galeopitkecus). fishes (such as the sole, turbot, flounder, &c), where both the eyes come to be on one side of the head ; and it may be want- ing altogether, not only as regards the viscera, but also as regards the external form, as is the case in many Mollusks, e.g. the snail. On the other hand, this kind of symmetry may be carried to a far greater extent than it is in man, as is the case in the Annulosa, where not only the external form, but the in- ternal viscera also, are bilaterally symmetrical. An antei'o-posterior symmetiy may be developed to a cer- tain superficial extent, as in the reptile Amfthisbena,1 in which it is at the first glance difficult to tell the head from the tail. Another form of symmetry which is en- tirely absent in man is radial symmetry. This symmetry is exhibited by jelly-fishes and by sea-urchins, and star-fishes in their adult condition—parts radiating from a F, common centre resembling and corre- (uraster). sponding one with each other. Serial symmetry may be much less and much more developed than we find it to be in man. Thus, in such creatures as the oyster it is completely absent. In birds it is less marked than in man, the dissemblances between their wings and legs being more obvious, and the resemblances more hidden, than between the human upper and lower limbs. In contrast with this we find in forms closely allied to man the resemblance to be exaggerated—whence the name Quad- * From um0'£'» f°r on both sides, and fiaiveiv, to go.