ELEMENT A R Y ANA TOMY. [less. 228 the olfactory and auditory organs, is protected by bony ex- pansions (the bony orbit) round it. Beneath the basis cranii we have (i) the great cornua of the hyoid, which send up no connecting ligaments to it, but which through the basi-hyal are connected, by the lesser cornua, with the styloid processes. (2) In front of this hyoidean arch we have the mandibular arch, and (3), again in front of this, the arch of the upper jaw, ending posteriorly in the pterygoid bones and amalgamated in front with the osseous covering of the nostrils (the nasals) and with the outer protection of the orbits (the malars), which latter send back a bony arch (the zygoma) to the bony envelope of the auditory organ. 15. If we descend greatly in the Vertebrate scale—as, for example, to an osseous Fish—we find the same generalized de- scription will apply, while the cornua and the cornicula of the hyoid are more solidly represented, and similar serial homo- logues are developed in succession behind them. A lateral zygoma (like that of man) is wanting in the Fish, but interme- diate forms {e.g. the Crocodiles and Spheuodon) have shown us that there may be two lateral bony arches extending back- wards, one above and one below the orbit, and separate one from the other. A striking difference from man may be pre- sented by the ossification around the internal ear in Fishes, where, instead of being in one bony piece, hardly visible but at the base of the skull, it may be in five distinct pieces, visible at the back and the roof of the skull, and forming a very large part of its side wall. Many other differences also exist, the more important of which have been noted in Lesson III. As has been said more in detail in that Lesson, the bones of the face, including the jaws and hyoidean and branchial arches, are all ossifications in and about the carti- laginous arcs of the several visceral arches, or splanchnapo- physes. 16. Since the facial parts may be reckoned to be splanchna- pophysial, and therefore, as we have seen, more or less related to the hypapophyses of the trunk (because hypaxial in their nature), it remains for us to consider what are the most general relations of the cranial (as distinguished from facial) parts of man and of other Vertebrates—to what category of spinal axial parts may they be said to appertain ? As the side walls of the cranium are developed in the laminae dorsales, and in part invest the notochord, they must be reckoned to be essentially epaxial parts ; but are