490 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. of inguinal and also a pair of pectoral ones, as in Tarsius; or two pairs of pectoral mammary glands, as in Galago. Each teat is traversed by a single' efferent canal in Rumi- nants, Pigs, and Cetaceans ; by two in Horses and Apes ; by five or six in some Rodents and Carnivora ;'and by more in the Elephant, Sirenia, Marsupials, and higher Primates. As has been said, mammary glands are confined to man's class : the only faint adumbration of such organs, outside his class, is to be found in Pig;eons, where the crop secretes a milky fluid (during the breeding season) which mixes with the food taken into that receptacle—the mixture serving as food for the young. It has also been asserted that glands lining the pouch of the Fish Hippocampus secrete a nutritious fluid useful to its progeny. 16. Having now completed our elementary investigation and exposition of the various organs and parts which make up man's body, and having noted the more important dif- ferences which the corresponding structures may present in other Vertebrate animals, it may be well shortly to re- capitulate some of the leading d'stinctions in a different sequence and arrangement, in order to bring out more clearly not only the peculiarities, but also the affinities evidenced by various anatomical relations between the body of man and those of other Vertebrates. In the first place man differs from the entire class of fishes in the following points :— (1) He has a skeleton the appendicular parts of which are divided into upper-arm, fore-arm and hand, and thigh, leg, and foot, respectively, (2) His hyoid is a small structure with one pair of cornua instead of several branchial arches. (3) His skull is formed with a large basi-sphenoid but no para-sphenoid ; with a large squamosal confluent with a " petrous bone;" and with a mandible formed of two united pieces directly suspended from the squamosal. (4) His auditory ossicles are minute, and take no part in suspending the mandible. (5) His ribs, articulated dorsally by head and tubercle, are connected on the ventral side with a sternum. (6) His vertebrae have at first terminal epiphyses. (7) He has a pelvis formed of two ilia, two ischia, and two pubes united dorsally to a sacrum.