291 THE MUSCLES. VIII.] describe. Its main division will suffice, and this is twofold— one part being nearer to, the other further from, the vertebral spines ; and each extending from a common origin in the sacral region upwards to the neck and head, where the parts assume distinct designations :— Sacro-lumbalis. This name designates that part of the erector spinas which is the more externally placed and attached to the ribs. Its uppermost continuation (which goes to the transverse processes of three or four cervical vertebras) is called the cervicalis ascendens, or sometimes descendens. Longissimns dorsi is the term applied to the inner part of the erector spinas ; it is attached to the transverse pro- cesses, the metapophyses, and the ribs within their angles. Its summit (going to the transverse processes of four or five cervical vertebras) is called the transversalis cervicis. Other minor subdivisions of the erector spinas bear the names spinalis, se7ni-spinalis, midtiftdus spina, rotatores spina?, and interspinales, the details of which will be found in ordinary works on Anthropotomy. The complexus is a thick muscle going obliquely to the occiput from the diapophyses of the three uppermost dorsal and four lowermost cervical vertebras. A small muscle pass- ing from the spine of the axis to the occiput is called the rectus capitis posticus major, while the rectus capitis posticus minor (inserted below the last) springs from the neural arch of the atlas. The obliqui capitis pass respectively, the i7iferior from the spine of the axis to the transverse processes of the atlas—the superior from the latter to behind the mastoid processes. Inter-transversales connect the transverse processes of ad- jacent vertebras. 7. Of muscles of the upper extremity we have in front a large pectoralis major, the fibres of which, arising from the clavicle, sternum, and ribs, converge to be inserted into the bicipital groove of the humerus. We have also a pectoralis minor, which goes from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs to the coracoid process. The subclavius is a small muscle placed as its name im- plies, and extending from the cartilage of the first rib to the under surface of the clavicle. A muscle called the serratus magnus is really but an in- ferior portion of the levator anguli scapulas before described. It arises by pointed digitations from eight ribs, and is inserted into the base (or vertebral border) of the scapula. U 2