37 II.] THE SPINAL SKELETON. transverse processes of some at least of the cervical vertebrae arise as distinct ossifications, as also do the lateral bony pieces in the sacrum. In the axis vertebra not only do the transverse processes arise as separate ossifications, but primitively both the body and the odontoid process are distinct bones, and even an epiphysis is formed between them, as well as below the cen- trum and at the summit of the odontoid process. The anterior part of the ring of the atlas also arises as a separate ossification. 19. We will now pass on to the relations existing between OTHER animals and man with regard to the spinal skeleton. As most animals have their bodies horizontal, confusion in descriptions is apt to arise from parts being "anterior" in them which in man are " superior," and vice versa. To avoid this ambiguity, it will be well to imagine an axis drawn at right angles to the general direction of the backbone. Then all parts which in man are relatively superior, and in beasts anterior, can be termed pre-axial in all cases ; and similarly, parts relatively inferior in man, and in beasts posterior, can be spoken of as post-axial: such terms referring not to the long axis of the skeleton, but to the imaginary line drawn at right angles to it. In that man's spine is made up of distinct and ossified vertebrae, man agrees with the vast majority of the members of his sub-kingdom. Yet, in the class of Fishes, there are many examples (as in the Sturgeon, Lepidosiren, and Lam- prey) of the persistence throughout the whole of life, of the notochord, or chorda dorsalis, of the embryo. Moreover, when the spine is fully ossified, and even in man's own class (Mammalia) it may be that the greater number of the ver- tebras are anchylosed together into a solid bone, as in the extinct Glyptodon. Instead of being connected as in man, the adjacent vertebras may be connected only by synovial sacs, as in Snakes, or by intervertebral substances, perforated in the middle ; and such sacs (as in Birds), or a large part of the primitive notochord (as in most Fishes), may persist between each pair of bony centra. That degree of union which exists among the different parts of one vertebra in man, does not by any means obtain in all cases. Thus, in the extinct Ichthyosaurics the neural