THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. XII.] 46/ Analogous motions of the abdominal muscles and ribs alternately dilate and contract the body-cavity, and so fill and empty the lungs—in Saurians and Serpents. In Chelonians, where the ribs are immovably fixed, and the ventral side of the body is covered with a solid exo-skeletcn (the plastron), inhalation is effected by forcing air down the windpipe by an action analogous to swallowing. The mouth being filled with air, the posterior nares and all possible exits are closed, except that leading to the lungs ; and down that exit air is forced by a contraction of the muscles of the throat. Exhalation is effected by means of muscular con- tractions at the most post-axial part of the abdominal cavity. In Batrachians (which are devoid of ribs, or have but very short ones) the respiratory movements are similarly effected, air being swallowed by contractions of the muscles of the throat, and expelled by those of the abdominal muscles. Thus to suffocate a Frog it is sufficient to keep its mouth open. 4. The lungs of man communicate with the mouth and so with the external air, by means of a single channel, the wind- pipe or TRACHEA ; which divides at its lower end into two branches, termed bronchi, one bronchus going to each lung. The trachea is a straight, permanently open tube, com- mencing above at the larynx (shortly to be described), which is, as it were, its expanded upper end. It descends, in the middle line, in front of the oesophagus, to opposite the third dorsal vertebra, where it is crossed in front by the arch of the aorta, and bifurcates, dividing into the right and left bronchus. The trachea is formed of membrane strengthened by a series of from sixteen to twenty horizontal cartilaginous rings, which are not however complete behind, so that the hinder wall of the tube, being entirely membranous, is flattened. The tube is lined with mucous membrane, and its wall con- tains muscular fibres and cellular tissue, with glands, vessels, and nerves. The bronchi have the same structure as the trachea, except that the cartilaginous rings are shorter and narrower. There are from six to eight in the right bronchus ; from nine to twelve in the left. Within the lung the bronchi divide and subdivide, like the branches, branchlets, and twigs of a tree. These successively smaller and smaller tubes are kept distended by successively smaller and more delicate cartilages, which are no longer in the form of rings incomplete behind, but are irregularly-shaped H H 2