THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. XII.] 489 spicuous mark running antero-posteriorly along each side of the body and tail of most Fishes. That special modification of the cutaneous glands called the mammary gland, or breast, is peculiar to man's class, which from this circumstance alone bears the name of Mammalia. These glands may be devoid of a nipple, as is the case in the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna, or the nipples may be very long, as in Marsupials. There may be as many as twenty-two glands, as sometimes in Centetes; or ten, as in the Hedgehog and domestic Sow. There is never one nipple only, though very rarely their number may be odd, as in some Opossums. The glands may open into a little depression, or sac, formed during their functional activity, as in the Echidna. _ _ FlG< 4IO_Marsupiai. Pouch They may be placed inside a of an Opossum {Dideipkys permanent cutaneous pouch, as in cancnvora), cut open to the 4 , . . F ' eleven nipples within—one 01 Marsupials. these eleven teats being me In that group there may be four dian in position, nipples, as in the Kangaroo ; or eight arranged in a circle, as in Phascopale penicillata j or four on each side and one in the middle, as in Dideipkys dorsigera ; or six on each side and one in the middle, as in the Virginian Opossum. These glands may be placed nearer the middle line of the back than that of the belly, as in the aquatic Coypu Rat ; or near the armpit, as in Pteropus. There may be two pectoral mammas in animals remote from man's order, as in the Elephant, Sloths, and Sirenia. The Sirenia from this circumstance, together with their rounded heads and fish-like tail, probably gave rise to the belief in the existence of Mermaids. There may be but two mammary glands, each opening in a depression and placed quite at the hinder end of the belly, as in Cetaceans. In Ruminants we have posteriorly situate glands with teats forming an " udder." In man's own order we find, in the Ape, but two pectoral mammae ; but amongst the Lemuroids there may be only a pair of ventral (inguinal) glands, as in Ckeiromys j or a pair