ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. 208 first row. They may coalesce with the metatarsals, as is the case in Birds, the Chameleon, and in Bradypus. Almost always short, these bones may yet, as in the Insectivore Rhynchocyon, be lengthened somewhat, while the proximal bones are not so. The ento-cuneiforme presents characters which differ inte- restingly from man's, in species which are closely allied to him. Thus the articular surface for the first metatarsal, instead of being flat, as in him, becomes convex even in the Gorilla, and completely saddle-shaped in the Lemurs, as also in the prehensile-footed Marsupials, e.g. the Pha- langers. A strong tubercle may project from the middle of the inferior margin of the tibial surface, as in Lemur. The ento-cuneiforme is much the largest of the three cuneiform bones in the Seals, but it may be quite wanting, as in the Ox and Sheep. It may coalesce with the meso-cuneiforme bone, as in the Horse and in Hyla palmata, or with the ento-cuneiforme also, as in the Alligator lucius. The meso-cuneiforme, instead of being as in man, may be relatively very much smaller than the other cuneiforms, as in the Armadillos called Encoubert and Cabassou, but it is never very much larger. It may anchylose with the second metatarsal, as in the Chameleon and Bradypus. As has been said, it may coalesce with one or both of the other cuneiforms in certain Reptiles. The ecto-cuneiforme may enormously preponderate over the other cuneiforms, as in the Horse. It may, on the con- trary, be decidedly smaller than the ento-cuneiforme, as in the Seals. It may coalesce with the third metatarsal, as in Birds, the Chameleon, and Bradypus; with both the other cuneiforms, as in Alligator lucius; or with the meso-cuneiforme only, as in Rana esculenta. It maybe the only distinct representative of the cuneiforms, as in Bufo bifurcatus. This and the meso-cuneiforme may be the largest bones of the tarsus, as in Pygopus lepidopus. The single condition in which the cuboides exists in man is universal in his class, unless sometimes in the Ornitho- rhynchus, where it is said to be represented by two bones, as is certainly the case in some Batrachians, e.g. in Salamandra and the Axolotl.