13 GENERAL VIEW. communication takes place between the interior of the circu- lating system and the exterior of the body, so that the water in which such creatures live is admitted within their blood system to a greater or less extent. 18. A distinct brain is common to all the members of man's sub-kingdom except the lancelet; but both nerves and ner- vous centres may be entirely wanting in creatures of complex structure like the tapeworm, or of locomotive power like the polyp, Hydra tuba. Respiration of air by pulmonary sacs is neither universal in man's sub-kingdom (for fishes breathe the air contained in water by gills), nor unknown out of it. Such structures exist in scorpions and spiders, and an air-breathing sac is found in slugs and snails. On the other hand, breathing organs suited for aquatic respiration may be developed in the most varied situations ; e.g., attached to the legs, as in the lobster, or internal with an external opening at the hinder end of the body, as in the sea-cucumber, Holothuria. Kidneys, instead of being distinct structures as in man, may be united with biliary glands and open into the intes- tine, as in insects. 19. Sense organs may exist in quite other situations than those in which they are placed in man. Eyes may be placed on every joint of a long body, as in the worm-like animai, Polyophthalmus* or along each half of a fleshy cloak enclos- ing the body, as in Pecten. There may often be more than two upon the head, as in Scorpioj or they may be raised on solid stalks, as in the lobster; or at the end of long retractile tentacles, as in the snail. Auditory organs may be placed in joints of the legs, as in some insects, e.g. locusts ; or in the thoracic part of the body, as in crickets. Long filamentary jointed structures (the antennae of insects) may project from the head, to minister to a sense the nature of which is disputable. The mouth, instead of being extended transversely, may be rather antero-posteriorly elongated even in man's sub-king- dom, as in the lancelet; and there may be numerous jaws placed on each side of it working laterally, and not vertically, as in the lobster. 20. Development may take place without any primitive groove and without any chorda dorsalis, and such is the case 1 From aoAi'c, many; o<p6a.A/j.oQ, an eve.