ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less, 43° It has become, as it were, pulled out by the gradual dis- placement downwards of the heart and its arches from what was their primitive position. Its two ends in the meantime retaining their primitive connexions, the whole nerve becomes sharply bent, or " recurrent." 12. The supplementary part of the circulating organs which goes by the name of the lymphatic SYSTEM has been already described in the second chapter of Professor Huxley's work so often referred to, the " Elementary Physio- logy," §§ 5 and 6- It will be well, however, here to recapitulate certain lead- ing facts. The lymphatic system consists of two sets of vessels (dis- tinguished by their place of origin) termed lacteals and lymphatics. Both are connected with certain rounded structures termed lymphatic glands. Each gland consists essentially of a network of finely divided lymphatic vessels, on and amongst which capillary blood-vessels ramify, the whole being compacted together and surrounded by fibrous tissue. The central part of the lymphatic system consists of a vertical canal, which ascends in front of the vertebral column and is called the thoracic duct. At its lower end (at the junction of the lumbar and dorsal regions) it is dilated into what is called the receptaculum chyli. Into this duct all the lymphatics and lacteals ultimately empty themselves, except those of the right arm and right side of the head, which empty themselves into a small vessel called the right lymphatic duct. Both these ducts open into the corresponding innominate veins. Lymphatic vessels are provided with valves like man's veins, and exist in all parts of the body; but in the brain they take the form of investing sheaths for the blood-vessels, which run enclosed in lymphatics as a gas-pipe might run inside a drain-pipe. The lymphatic vessels have proper walls, but they originate in mere channels, left, as it were, between the other tissues, and thus whatever is cast loose must find its way into the lymphatics. The lacteals are the lymphatics of the alimentary canal, and pass through numerous lymphatic glands which are placed in the membranes (mesenteries) which attach that canal to the spine.