ix.] THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 399 medulla, and giving off a branch to border the opposite sides of the successive branchial apertures, and then continuing on to the alimentary canal. It also, in Fishes, gives off a special nerve, called the nervus lateralis (Fig. 349, /, and Fig. 350, 0), to the outer skin of the lateral body-wall, immediately be- neath what is called the "lateral line." By very rare ex- ception the two pneumo-gastric nerves may unite and run along the intestine to its extreme end. The third part of the eighth nerve (named the spinal accessory) supplies the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles. It may be altogether absent, as is the case in Serpents, and in the whole of the Ichthyopsida. 26. The ninth nerve is called the hypoglossal. It arises by several roots from the medulla oblongata, and then passes out through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue, the os hyoides, and the larynx. In Fishes this nerve is usually called the " first spinal ;" and in fact the essential nature of the hypoglossal nerve is rather spinal than cerebral, being often closely con- nected with what is commonly reckoned the first spinal, even in Vertebrates above Fishes. Thus we see that the so-called cranial nerves belong to two categories, (1) those of special sense, and (2) those which border the primitive visceral clefts and send off filaments to other structures. The fifth, seventh, and eighth nerves belong to the second category ; the third, fourth, and sixth nerves may be regarded as derived from the fifth. The eighth nerve is a most complex one, the glosso- pharyngeal portion alone being made up of an undetermined number of cranial nerves related to those visceral clefts and arches which become obliterated in all Vertebrates above the Ichthyopsida. 27. The spinal nerves arise in pairs from opposite sides of the spinal marrow. They are related in number to the divisions of the axial skeleton, or vertebrae, and (as has been said in describing that skeleton) they pass out of the neural canal either in the intervals between the neural arches, or by direct perforations of those arches. Each nerve arises by two roots—one anterior (or ventral), the other posterior (or dorsal). The posterior, or dorsal, root has a ganglionic enlargement (Fig. 339, B, Gn). After leaving the neural canal each nerve divides into two conspicuous branches—one dorsal, the other ventral; but