x.] THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. 411 The heart may show marked signs even externally of the division into a right and left side, as in the Dugong, where its apex is deeply notched. The heart may be more elongated than in man, as in Birds ; or shorter and broader, as in Chelonians. 5. As has been said, two ARTERIES in man leave the heart, one proceeding from the right ventricle, the other from the left. These two channels ultimately end in distinct sets ot capillaries, and thus there are two categories of arterial channels. The great artery proceeding from the right side of the heart is termed pulmonary, and conveys the as yet unaerated blood for purification. It soon bifurcates into a right and a left branch, and these branches ramify in the substance of the right and left lungs respectively. The arterial trunk proceeding from the left side of the heart is the largest of all, and is called the great aorta. It ultimately ends in capillaries distributed over the whole body, and constitutes the generally diffused (or systemic) arterial system. The aorta arises from the upper and back part of the left ventricle, whence it ascends forwards and to the right, and then curves backwards and towards the left, forming what is called the "arch of the aorta." It curves over the left bronchus, passing obliquely from the sternum to the spine. It then continues on in a nearly straight, vertical line, descending along the front of the vertebral column (rather on its left side) to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two common (or unsubdivided) iliac arteries—to be noticed shortly. The aorta gives off from the convexity of its arch four great arteries, two going one to each side of the head, the two others to the two arms. Normally, however, the two vessels, going respectively to the right arm and right side of the head, are undivided for a short space, forming a large trunk called the innominate artery. The two arteries for the head are each called " common carotid? and each bifurcates in the upper part of the neck into two branches, called respectively the external and the internal carotid. The external carotid, besides physiologically important branches to the face and the sides of the head, sends one called the thyroid to the larynx, one called the lingual to the tip of the tongue, and one, the posterior auricular, which as- cends (close to the styloid process, and passing through the