[LESS. 122 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. certain of the auditory ossicles, as we shall see more distinctly when we come to treat of the organs of sense. Confining ourselves to man's own class, his mandible appears to be well developed, but the form and proportion of its parts may be very different from what we see in him. Thus there may be, as in the Great Ant-eater and Ceta- ceans, no representative of the ascending ramus ; or it may be very low, as in most Rodents, e.g. the Porcupine. The coronoid process may be much developed, rising greatly above the condyle, affording attachment to the volu- minous temporal muscle, as in the Dog ; or it may be low or rudimentary, as in many Rodents. A considerable process, termed the angular process, may be developed at the point of junction of the posterior borders of the vertical ramus with the inferior margin of the horizontal one, as in the Dog. This process may be distinctly bent in- wards, as in the Opossums and almost all Marsupials. The condyle is always either more or less convex or flattish (thus differing from the surface offered by the articular part of the lower jaw in animals below Mammals, in which it is always more or less concave), but its longer diameter may be antero-posterior, as in some Rodents, or still more decidedly transverse than in man, as in carnivorous animals, where the movement of the jaw is vertical and not to and fro,—whether from before backwards, as in Rats, Rabbits, &c, or from side to side, as in Ruminants. Mostly in Mammals the lower jaw continues throughout life to be made up of two bones articulating at the symphysis by suture—as in the human infant at birth. The symphysis generally inclines from above downwards and backwards, and only in one Ape (the Siamang Gibbon) is there a chin as in man. The symphysis may be exceedingly narrow, as in the Ant-eater and Porpoise. It may be very elongated but hori- zontal, as in the Cachalot. The two rami may be each nearly straight, or each may be strongly curved outwards, as in the Whalebone Whales. The symphysis may be narrow and grooved above so as to give it the appearance of a spout, as in the Elephant, or it may be extraordinarily produced downwards, as in the Dugong. The entrance of the dental foramen may be exceedingly capacious and funnel-shaped, as is the case in the Dolphin. The mandible may be directly connected with the neural