416 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. " posteriorly into a relatively large middle sacral artery, and I gives off two considerable superior vesical (here called hypo- gastric) arteries, which go to the umbilicus and much exceed in size the primitive external iliac arteries. 7. The significance of these changes will appear from a ; consideration of the general condition of the arteries in the Vertebrate sub-kingdom. A simple vesicular heart {e.g. in Amphioxus) may be con- tinued on forwards {i.e. pre-axially) into a median artery, \ whence on each side diverge very many pairs of arteries, which ascend dorsally in contiguity with semi-cartilaginous arches, subservient to aquatic respiration. In this case the first arch on each side may continue uninterruptedly upwards till it meets its fellow, the two uniting above to form the anterior end of a long subaxial dorsal aorta. The ascending arches behind the first do not reach the aorta, but taper as they ascend till they terminate dorsally in a point, while each has a contractile dilatation at its base. Meanwhile the blood is collected by separate vessels (called veins) which spring from each branchial arch, and, growing larger as - they ascend, pour their contents into the aorta. This is a condition found in the Lancelet alone amongst the Vertebrata. In no other member of that sub-kingdom can aortic arches by any calculation, or at any period of life, be made to exceed eleven on each side. In the Shark Heptanchus there are probably seven distinct branchial arches on each side. From the Lepidosiren and Ceratodus we find there may be five branchial arches on each side; or there may be but four, as in the Perch. In Fishes the arteries run on the outer side of the branchial arches (noticed in the Lesson on the Skull), and give off minute twigs to membranous structures termed gills (which will be described in the Twelfth Lesson). The blood is col- lected in the gills and conveyed to corresponding ascending vessels (called branchial veins) by minute twigs,1 from which such ascending vessels take origin. The branchial arteries springing from the aortic bulb are not directly continuous, or connected by considerable branches, with the vessels joining the dorsal aorta—or branchial veins. We may find, however, as in the Frog (at that age of its tadpole condition when the external gills begin to atrophy) that three branchial arteries from the bulb may co-exist 1 See page 479, Fig. 405.