XL] 459 THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. Fishes. It may have a silvery metallic lustre, as often in the last-named class. It may, as in Birds, form great cells which communicate with the lungs, and thence become inflated with air. The peritoneum may be incomplete, being reduced, as it were by local atrophy, to shreds and patches, as in many cartilaginous Fishes, e.g. the Sturgeon. Instead of an omentum passing post-axially as in Mam- mals, two such structures may extend pre-axially {i.e. towards the head) from the Delvic region, as in many Lizards. Fig. 390.—Diagram of a Transverse Section of a Lizard, showing the stomach, spleen, lesser omentum, and falciform hepatic ligaments, all in their typical or median position. {After Pittard.) ns, neural spine ; c, neural canal; p, outer surface of body ; p', peritoneum lining the body-cavity and investing the viscera ; a, the aorta ; 5, the spleen ; g, the stomach ; h, the gall-duct; f, the falciform ligament of the liver ; r, the pleuro- peritoneal cavity. The whole intestine {i.e. both the great and small intes- tines) may be suspended by one continuous mesentery, even in man's own class, as in the Shrew and the Elephant. 17. In the development of the alimentary system the first notable modification is the splitting of the laminae ven- trales, as already mentioned. When by the ventral union of the inner laminae the alimentary canal is formed, this canal is at first a straight tube closed at both ends, and extending along the ventral aspect of the axial skeleton. After a time the tube, towards the middle of the body, bends away from this axis in a sharp ventral curve, while that part of it on the pre-axial side (side next the head) of the curve dilates and becomes the stomach. The part on the post- axial side of the curve becomes the transverse colon, while the intervening loop becomes greatly lengthened and exces- sively convoluted to form the small intestine and ascending colon, a little bud-like offshoot laying the foundation of the caecum. As we have seen, this proximity of the transverse