89 III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. Between the outer side of the petrous bone and the adja- cent margin of the ala of the sphenoid is a groove for the reception of the Eustachian tube. Behind the foramen magnum is the great occipital expanse. On each side of the base of the skull we find the zygoma (arching but little outwards), the glenoid surface, the eternal auditory meatus, and the mastoid process. Looking at the side of the skull, we see a fissure not yet noticed. This is the ptery'go-maxillary', which runs up be- tween the posterior border of the maxilla and the adjacent pterygoid process. At its summit it meets the inner end of another fissure, namely the spheno-maxillary; which runs. forwards and outwards between the inferior margin of the great ala of the sphenoid and the upper part of the maxilla. These two fissures by their junction form an angular depression called the spheno-maxillary fossa, and into it open the foramen rotundum, the vidian and sphenopala- tine foramina, and the upper end of the posterior palatine canal. 15. In the INSIDE OF the skull, as seen from above wrhen a horizontal section is made and its top removed, we note the following structures. In the middle, in front, the crista galli and cribriform plate, bounded on each side by the orbital plates of the frontal (which are but slightly convex), and behind by the anterior part of the sphenoid and orbital wings, each pierced at its base by the optic foramen, and having a sharp posterior margin marking off the hinder limit of what is called the anterior fossa of the skull. The middle fossa includes, in its centre, the basilar part of the sphenoid (with the pituitary fossa and posterior clinoid process), and on each side, the great ala of the sphenoid (pierced towards its root by the round and oval foramina, and leaving the sphenoidal fissure between it and the orbital wing), the squamous part of the temporal bone, and the an- terior part of its petrous portion—at the inner end of which is seen the anterior end of the carotid canal opening immedi- ately above the foramen lacerum medius. A ridge running forwards and inwards along the petrous bone defines its anterior part from its posterior, and at the same time the anterior margin of the posterior fossa of the skull. This ridge has attached to it a membrane called the tentorium, which divides the cerebellum from the cerebral part of the brain. The posterior fossa includes the hinder part of the petrous bone with its internal auditory meatus,