VII.] 277 THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. form a peculiar function. The animal lives on eggs, but is devoid of lips, so that if it broke the eggs with its mouth their contents would be lost. It has then but rudimentary teeth in the ordinary place, but swallowing the eggs whole it fractures them with these oesophageal teeth, and thus loses none of the nutritive substance. 35. Structures which are quite like teeth—and indeed much resemble those of Orycteropus—project from either side of the very elongated rostrum which extends from the front of the head of the Saw-fish. These, then, are teeth quite external in position— enderonic dermal calcifications. This, however, is not the only in- stance in which tooth-like structures appear on the external surface of the body. The Sharks and Rays, for ex- ample, have dermal calcifications (springing from a bony base) which consist of a substance exceedingly resembling dentine, and moreover coated with a sort of enamel. These may be quite small and thickly dis- tributed all over the body. A skin so furnished is called shagreen. They may however be larger, fewer, and placed far apart, and as it were en- graved with elegant patterns on the exposed surface, often forming power- fully defensive spines, as in some Sharks. Other Fishes, as the Bony Pikes (Lepidosteus), have a close - fitting armour of solid, enamelled, bony scutes, which join together by means of a peg and socket articulation. Fishes more familiar to us, but belonging to the same Ganoid group, e.g. the Sturgeon, are also furnished with bony scutes arranged in rows along the body. The spines of some Teleostei present us with a peculiar kind of articulation—a shackle-joint (referred to in Lesson II.), the base of a spine forming a ring which passes through another ring developed from an ossicle supporting it (fig. 257). 36. The SCALES OF ordinary fishes (as the Perch) are hard structures embedded in the deep layer, or dermis, and Fig 256—Under Sur- face of Head of a Saw- fish (Pristis), showing the large lateral teeth on the prolonged rostrum.