436 ELEMENTAL Y ANA TOMY. [less. the single exception of the Crocodiles, in which a transverse fold, or soft palate, hangs down in front of the posterior nares. A distinct uvula is only found in certain members of man's own order. The soft palate, however, may attain a greater development than it does in man, as e.g. in the Cetacea, where it is changed into a muscular canal, which prolongs the posterior nares, downwards and backwards. We may find, as in the Camel, a second and very long transverse pro- cess hanging down from the palate, just in front of the true velum. It ordinarily hangs down the throat, but in males at the rutting season is protruded from the mouth in a singular and conspicuous manner. The soft palate may extend eight inches beyond the hard palate, and indeed half-way down the neck, as in the Ant- eater. The hard palate, instead of only having very slight trans- verse prominences, as in man, may have them produced into strongly projecting ridges, as in the Pig, or into transverse rows of conical horny spines, as in the Echidna, or into great depending and dentated ridges, as in the Giraffe—a greater extension of a similar structure constitutes the baleen-bearing ridges of the Whalebone Whales. The situation of the opening of the posterior nares has already been indicated in the Lesson on the Skull. The Eustachian tubes and teeth have also been already noticed. The cheeks may be distensible, so as to form pockets, or " cheek-pouch is," as in the Ornithorhynchus, some Rodents, and even in man's own order, as e.g. in the Baboons and the smaller and commoner Monkeys of Africa and Asia. That median opening of the windpipe which exists in man, exists also in all air-breathing Vertebrates—even those which, like Menobranchus, have at the same time permanent gills. No such structure exists, however, in Fishes,1 although in the Lamprey we meet with something analogous, as in that animal a canal conveying water to the gills opens at the back of the mouth, on the ventral aspect of the opening of the gullet. In the higher Fishes, instead of one such opening, several on each side serve (as we shall see in the Twelfth Lesson) to convey water from the alimentary tract to the respiratory organs. 4. The spittle, or salivary, glands of man are three in number :—(1) The parotid glands, one of which lies on each 1 As to the ductus pneumaticus of the swim-bladder, see Lesson XII. § 3, p.'465.