ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [LE3S. 4 The second, and much smaller cylinder, runs along the back, and consists of the backbone, expanding above into the skull (or brain-case). This cylinder contains the spinal marrow, while its upper expansion contains the brain. The trunk of the human body consists thus of two tubes, with a solid partition between them formed of the front part of the backbone. Neither of these cavities is prolonged into the limbs, which are made up of solid structures (flesh, nerves, and vessels) wrapped round bones. 6. The long alimentary tube has no communication with the body-cavity which surrounds it, but is (with its glandular ad- juncts) a continuous structure, except at its terminal openings. Thus it is not the inside of the alimentary tube which is the true body-cavity, but, on the contrary, the space which surrounds that tube and the other viscera. The tube itself is, as it were, but a reflexion inwards of the external surface, the skin which lines it being continuous at the lips with the skin of the outside of the body. At its. upper end this tube rather bends away from the brain or upper termination of the central part of the nervous system. The heart, which is a hollow muscular organ, is rhythmically contractible and propulsive, and contains red blood ; part of which, as it circulates, undergoes on its way back a subsidiary (portal) circulation through the liver, by means of a double set of vessels ramifying through that organ. The blood-vessels which arise from the heart {i.e. arteries) become successively smaller and smaller as they pass away from it, and end in most minute tubes (capillaries), whence the returning vessels (veins) take origin, growing larger as they approach the heart. The blood is thus constantly enclosed in distinct vessels of one kind or another. The brain and spinal marrow form the central parts of the nervous system. Cords or threads of nervous substance (the nerves) extend from the brain and spinal marrow into every part of the body. The lungs (as has been shown in "Elementary Physiology," Lesson IV.) respire air, but man has not any appliance by which to extract oxygen from air as it exists mixed up in water, whether fresh or salt. The sense organs, except touch, are all placed in the head, and the respiratory organs open at the same part of the body, namely, by the nose and mouth. Three special senses are fur- nished with pairs of organs—two eyes, two ears, two nostrils,