ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 94 veloped (one in front of the other) on each side of the chorda dorsalis, and which are the precursors of the vertebrae. A solid, flattened mass surrounds the anterior termination of the chorda dorsalis, and forms the cartilaginous foundation and precursor of the basilar part of the occipital bone, and may be called the basi-cranial plate. Continuous with this on each side is a rounded mass of cartilage which is the precursor of the petrous parts of the temporal bone and of the lateral parts of the exoccipital; and the latter cartilages, growing up to meet together above, enclose the foramen magnum with a cartilaginous ring. From the front of the basi-cranial plate two cartilaginous rods, called trabecules cranii,1 extend forwards and down- wards. These at first diverge, and then converge and meet, thus leaving a space in which the pituitary fossa comes to be placed. Fig. 93.—Diagram of the Formation of the Skull, seen laterally, n, the anterior termination of the notochord in the cartilaginous occipital mass ; eo, a lateral upward extension of that mass, forming the foundation of the future lateral part of the occipital bone ; att, the auditory capsule ; a and 0. the cartilaginous beginnings of the future " greater" and "orbital" wings of the sphenoid ; 1, one of the trabecular cranii running forwards to expand in the ethmo-vomerine plate or foundation of the future median (me) and lateral (le) ethmoids ; 2, the second (maxillary) arch running forwards to abut against the ethmo-vomerine cartilage ; 3, the mandibular arch ; 4, the hyoidean arch. This prolongation forwards, after sending up on each side two cartilaginous representatives of the sphenoidal wings, forms, as has been indicated, a median plate (termed Ethmo- vomerine), which sends downwards three other plates to form the median and lateral ethmoids. The rest of the walls and roof of the skull are completed by membrane only. Besides the trabecular, other cartilaginous rods extend 1 From trabecula, the diminutive of trades, a beam or rafter.