THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. 473 Finally, there are two more minute cartilages, called those of Wrisberg, each placed in the fold of mucous membrane proceeding, on each side, from the epiglottis to the top of the arytenoid cartilage. The true vocal cords are two bands of elastic tissue, one of which proceeds on each side from the middle of the thyroid to the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The false vocal cords are two folds of mucous membrane which similarly connect the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages. Both kinds of vocal cords have their free edges turned in- wards, and between them is the glottis (or upper opening of the windpipe), the exact form and size of which is regulated by delicate muscles which move the parts of the larynx one on the other—especially the arytenoid cartilages on the cricoid —as explained in the " Elementary Physiology." Between the true and false vocal cords there is (on each side) a depression termed a ventricle of the larynx, and a small prolongation of this - upwards on the inside of the thyroid is called a laryngeal pouch. 7. In so far as man has a larynx at all he agrees with all Vertebrates above Fishes, and in its general composition man's larynx agrees with that of other members of his class. Amongst Mammals, however, the laryngeal cartilages may be more or less ossified, as commonly in the Slow Lemurs. The larynx may be very much larger relatively than in man, as in the Howling Monkeys {Mycetes), where the thyroid cartilage may be three times the size of its human repre- sentative, while the os hyoides is almost gigantic, and exca- vated in such a way as to form a kind of thin bony bladder ; its excavation being an enormous exaggeration of the slight concavity on the hinder surface of the human hyoid. The lateral plates and lamellae of the thyroid may meet together in the middle line behind {i.e. dorsally), as in the Ornithorhyn- chus. In contrast with this, the cricoid may be incomplete in front {i.e. ventrally), as in the Porpoise. The arytenoid cartilages may be exceedingly prolonged upwards and united in the middle line, as in the last-men- tioned animal, where they become enclosed together with the epiglottis in a sheath of mucous membrane, the whole forming a conical projection which is received into the posterior nares and embraced by the muscular soft palate. In this way the Porpoise can breathe securely while the mouth is full of water, or while food is passing to the oesophagus on either side of the dorsally prolonged larynx.