THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] "5 The second element of the human maxillary bone—namely, that in which the incisor teeth are implanted—is termed in zootomy the pre-maxilla. Its existence in man, even at birth, is obscured (except on the surface of the palate) by anchylosis, and masked by the extension over it of a delicate plate, or lamina, of the first and far larger portion of the maxillary bone. This lamina is wanting in all other animals, and even in the Apes the maxillo-premaxillary suture is for a long time or permanently very evident on the face. A pre-maxilla is almost a constant element in an osseous skull; nevertheless, in some Bats and Shrews (e.g. Crocidura) it seems to abort. It may attain a vast size, as in Birds, where it forms the greater part of the upper half of the beak, and reduces the part representing the other element of the human maxillary to insignificance. Generally double in Ba- trachians, apparently always so in Fishes, a single median ossification may nevertheless, as in Serpents, represent the pre-maxillse of both right and left sides conjoined. In man's class the pre-maxilla varies greatly in size in dif- ferent animals, and this independently of the development both of the muzzle and of the teeth; for the Ant-eater and the Whale are both edentulous, and both have an enormously pro- duced muzzle, yet, while in the former the pre-maxilla is ex- tremely small, in the latter it is very largely developed. A nasal spine is very rare, but may exist below man, as in Pedetes and the Walrus. Generally the development of the pre-maxilla is related to that of the incisor teeth, which are defined by the fact of their being implanted in it, though when they are very large, as in Rodents, their roots may extend backwards into the parts which represent the first-described element of the maxillary bone of man. In some Bats (e.g. Vespertilio noctuld), and the Ornitho- rhynchus, we find the pre-maxilla separated by an interval from its fellow of the opposite side. On the contrary, these may be united not only below but also above the anterior nares, as in the Gavial and Echidna. Again, they may be united in the middle line, but altogether separated from the first-described element of the human maxillary bone, as in the Three-toed Sloth and in Serpents. In this latter case we have normally existing that occasional abnormal arrest of development in man, which we call " hare-lip." * 26. The MALAR bone is almost at its maximum of relative I 2