ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. duced into a sharp crest in front, on the internal side of which crest the bone is convex, and concave on its outer side. At the upper end of the front of the shaft is a prominence called the tuberosity, or tubercle. The lower end of the bone is much smaller than the upper. Its lower border has a single groove behind for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum muscles. Its outer surface is concave for the reception of the fibula. Its inner margin is produced downwards into a strongly marked triangular process, called the inte7'nal 7nalleolus. This forms the bony projection on the inside of the ankle, and articulates with the inner side of the tarsus. Another articular surface, concave and quadrilateral, is situated on the under-surface of the lower end of the tibia, and articulates with the summit of the tarsus. The hinder margin of this articular surface descends below its anterior border. 5. The fibula is the slenderest bone, in proportion to its length, in the body, and extends on the outer side of the leg from near the knee down to the ankle. Its upper extremity is slightly enlarged into what is called the head, which articulates with the outer side of the head of the tibia, and gives insertion to the external lateral ligament. It does not mount upwards so high as does the tibia. The shaft of the bone is irregularly triangular in section. Its lower end is expanded into what is called the external malleolus, which forms the bony projection on the outer side of the ankle and articulates with the outer side of the tarsus. This malleolus projects downwards considerably further than does the internal malleolus. On its inner side it articu- lates with the tibia. Thus we have in man a horizontal articular surface for the tarsus, formed by the lower end of the tibia, and two other articular surfaces, at right angles with it, formed by the sur- faces of the malleoli. 6. The tarsus consists of seven bones (none of which can be called " long bones"), namely, the astragalus, calca- neum, cuboides, naviculare, and three cuneiform bones. All these are so firmly connected by ligamentous fibres which en- velop them, that very little mobility is possible, though there may be a slight rotation of the distal tarsal bones upon the proximal ones, that is, upon the astragalus and calcaneum. The movement of the foot on the leg, however, takes place entirely by the hinge-like joint by which the tarsus articu- lates with the bones of the leg.