46; XII.] THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. from other tubes, which again spring at right angles from the bronchi or primary divisions of the windpipe. The lungs may be cellular throughout their extent, while yet the bronchi do not give off branches within them, as in Chelonia and Crocodilia. They may be cellular only near their root, the more post- axial part of the lung being a simple membranous air-bag, as in Serpents. Part of the arterial blood, carried by the pulmonary artery, instead of going to the lung may be conveyed by small branches to the oesophagus, as in Menopoma, Amphhima, and Siren. Part of the venous blood of the lungs, instead of returning direct to the heart, may enter the veins of the trunk, as in Proteus. When there is an air-sac which does not both receive blood directly from and return it directly to the heart— i.e., when there is no true pulmonary circulation—such an air-sac (whether single or double) is termed a swim- bladder, or air-bladder, and a struc- ture of the kind is found in most Teleostean and in all Ganoid Fishes. A swim-bladder, however, may closely approximate to a lung, as in Ceratodus, where, though blood is not brought to that bladder directly, as in Lepidosiren, yet blood is sent directly to the heart by a pulmonary vein which opens into the atrium of the heart, or chamber representing the (as yet undifferentiated) auricles. The swim-bladder may present a great variety of conditions. Thus, it may be double and connected with the ventral part of the oesophageal portion of the alimentary canal by a short tube, the ductus pneumaticus, as in Polypterus; or single and connected more with the side of the same part, as in Cera- todus and Erythrinus. It may be connected with the dorsal part of the oesophagus, as in Lepidosteus and the Carp ; or with the cardiac part of the stomach, as in the Herring. The ductus pneumaticus may be long, narrow, and bent, as in the Carp ; or short, straight, and wide, as in Lepidosteus. H H Fig. 393.—Diagram of a Lobule of the Lung of a Bird, greatly magnified. {After Thomas Williams.)