496 ELEMENTAR V ANA TO MY. [less. (30) That all four heads of the flexor brevis digitomm pedis arise from the os calci^. (31) That the fibular interosseous muscle of the second toe j of the foot arises from the middle metatarsal on the dorsal side of the tibial interosseous muscle of the middle toe. (32) The absolute size of the brain. (33) The greater complexity and less symmetrical disposi- tion of its convolutions. (34) The smallness of the canines and the absence of an interspace between them and the adjoining teeth. (35) That the permanent canine is cut before the second true molar teeth. 25. A perusal of the list of characters given in the nine preceding paragraphs must manifest to the beginner in anatomy how small and insignificant are the characters which separate man's structure from that of other members of his class, compared with those which distinguish him from Birds and other yet inferior groups. Viewed from the anatomical standpoint, man is but one species of the order Primates ; and he even differs far less from the higher Apes than do these latter from the inferior forms of the order. This work being purely anatomical, it is only needful here to remind the reader—of what common sense teaches us— that to estimate any object as a whole, its powers of action no less than its structure must be taken into consideration. The structure of the highest plants is more complex than is that of the lowest animals ; but for all that, powers are pos- sessed by jelly-fishes of which oaks and cedars are devoid. The self-conscious intelligence of man establishes between him and all other animals a distinction far wider than the mere superiority of his brain, in mass and complexity, or any other physical difference, would indicate. All, however, who admit the idea of man's moral responsi- bility are logically compelled to go much further, and to con- fess that in this respect he is separated from the rest of the visible creation by an abyss so vast that no chasm separating the other kingdoms of nature from one another can be com- pared with it. Evident, then, as it is from the teaching of anatomy that the various parts of the human body have a classificatory value indicating the zoological position of the whole struc-