ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. I42 Vertebrates, they may be largely developed, as in many Birds, e.g. the Ostrich; or absent, as in Serpents, e.g. the Python. The maxillary sinus in man is also in a medium state of development. In very many forms the maxillary bone is solid; though, in the Elephant, not only the maxilla has air- cells, but the pre-maxilla also. In the New World Rodent, the Paca, the maxillary bone contains a large cavity which communicates with that of the mouth even in the living animal. In the Hare the external surface of the bone is but imperfectly ossified. As has been said, other bones may become inflated with air which are not so in man. This, as we have seen, is the case with the median plate of the ethmoid, with the nasals, and with the pre-maxilla in the Elephant, and with the parie- tals and supra-occipitals in the Hog. The pterygoids may become adapted to form air-cavities, as in the Dolphins, the Mole, and some Sloths, and in old Gavials. The greater wings of the sphenoid may be similarly dilated, as in some Insectivora (e.g. Centetes) and Marsupials (e.g. Hypsiprymmis). The mastoidal cells of man are very commonly replaced by large inflations of the tympanic or inferior petrous portions of the temporal bone. The postero-external portion of the skull may be very largely inflated in this way, as in Macro- scelides, forming a great mastoidal bulla ; and even the angular part of the lower jaw may be inflated with air, its cells being placed in communication with those of the tympanic region by a special tube, as in the Crocodile. The lachrymal bone may also be inflated and form an orbital bulla, as in almost all Ruminants, especially the Giraffe. The upper jawbones may be extraordinarily expanded and filled with delicate osseous air-holding cells, as in the beak of the Toucan. The process of development of the human skull, which has been before noticed, is of very high zootomical interest, as its transitory stages present very interesting resemblances to the permanent cranial structures of very different animals. Inasmuch as we find in the first indication of the embryo an indication of the spinal system which is to be, but none of the skull, we are reminded of the headless condition of that lowest of Vertebrates, the Amphioxus or Lancelet. In that early cartilaginous condition of the cranium in which we have a cartilaginous mass enclosing the anterior termination of the notochord in the middle, and an auditory