429 THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. anastomosing branches with those which take the blood from the gills to the aorta. This we have seen to be the case in the Tadpole at a certain stage of its development. Indeed, the primitive condition in Fishes is that of a complete con- tinuity of each arch from the heart to the dorsal aorta, and it is only as embryonic development proceeds, that each arch becomes broken up into a network of capillaries. Examples are not wanting of the persistence of this primitive condition throughout life in some of the arches, as e.g. in Monopterus and Lepidosiren (Fig. 368). Thus we see that two different and divergent modes of respiratory circulation may be developed from the same starting-point : the primitive series of aortic arches in the one case sending out posteriorly extending branches for a lung-circulation ; in the other case, themselves breaking up to form a gill-circulation. A third mode of respiratory circulation, that by the skin, may supplement the others—as in Batrachians, where a large artery is given off from the heart to the cutis. As we shall see in Lesson XII., both pulmonary and gill respiration may co-exist, as in certain Tailed-Batrachians. In man the heart is placed at a considerable distance from the cornua of the os hyoides, but in Fishes in close proximity to their enlarged representatives—the branchial arches. At first, however, even in him, these parts are adjoined, and it is the subsequent displacement of the heart wh;ch causes certain diverging and obscuring structural conditions. Thus the great aortic arch of Mammals is the remnant of the vascular arches going to the fourth embryonic visceral skeletal1 arch, i.e. to the third behind the mandibular skeletal arch. Yet the thyroid artery is placed much in front of {i.e. preaxial to) the great aorta, though from the distribution of the thyroid artery it probably corresponds with an artery going to the fifth visceral skeletal arch, i.e. the third branchial arch of Fishes, and perhaps to the fourth and fifth also. A similar explanation may be given of the fact noticed in the last lesson—the bending back of a nerve to the larynx called the j'ecurrent laryngeal. This nerve originally passed behind the fourth aortic arch (one side of which persists as the great arch of the aorta), without any marked curvature. In the adult this nerve descends a long distance and then returns upwards at a sharp angle, passing on the left side round the arch of the aorta, and on the right side round the subclavian. For a description of these visceral skeletal arches see pages 95 and 143.