THE MUSCLES. VIII.] 323 ment, as in Emys, where it runs between the transverse and neural processes and the carapace. The cervicalis ascendens. This anterior continuation of the sacro-lumbalis is of great constancy, appearing even in Reptiles, e.g. Iguana and Chameleo. Transversalis cervicis. This muscle, which is the anterior prolongation of the longissimus dorsi, is less constant, as in at least some Reptiles, e.g. Iguana and Chameleo (Fig. 284), it does not seem to have any distinct existence. The complexus is a muscle of great constancy, as it is found in Reptiles, e.g. Iguana and Chameleo (Fig. 284), while even in Batrachians and Fishes it must be considered as included in that part of the dorsal extensor mass which adjoins the head. The rectus capitis posticus major is relatively much smaller i n man than in many Mammals, compared with the rectus capitis posticus minor; while man's obliqui capitis are also relatively smaller than in very many. Thus in the Horse the posterior oblique has ten times the bulk of the more normally developed rectus posticus minor. A whole series of muscles may be developed which in man are entirely absent. These are the numerous muscles which move the tail, and which may obtain a vast bulk, as in the Cetacea and in Fishes. To describe these muscles in detail would rather come within the scope of a treatise on the Comparative Anatomy of 4 3 Fig. 291.—Diagram of Caudal Muscles of Right Side of Tail of Iguana, showing how the ventral mass resembles the dorsal part, and how the ten- dinous intersections of the muscular fibres are drawn out into cones. N, neural spine ; H, hypapophysial spine: z, zygapophysis ; t, transverse process ; 1, dorsal series of cones ; 2, upper lateral series of cones; 3, lower series of cones ; 4, ventral series of cones. animals than within that of the present work. Here, however, it may be stated that the enormous coccyx of the Porpoise is provided not only with dorsal muscles which continue on backwards the erector spinas (with its main divisions) from