[less. 1-2 ELEMENT A R Y ANA TO MY. larger than it is in man, and it may, as in the Three-toed Sloth, coalesce with the os magnum. The os magnum may be much smaller relatively than in man (as e.g. in the Bear and Hare) ; or relatively larger (as in the Hyrax); or it may seem to abort altogether, as in Birds. Compared with the bones of the second row only, it may be, as in the Horse, a more predominant bone than it is in man. The undivided state in which the ttnciform bo7ie exists in man is universal in his class. It may, however, be represented by two distinct bones corresponding with and supporting the fourth and fifth meta- carpals, as in Chelonia, Chelydra, and Salamandra. There may be no bone whatever capable of identification with it, as in Birds. It may be much smaller or larger relatively than it is in man. An additional ossicle not found in man may be present in the ligament connecting the trapezium and unciform bones. This is the case in the Potto {Perodicticus). 20. The distinctness and development which the meta- carpus or middle segment of the hand attains in man are characters which are normal. The somewhat opposed posi- tion of the first metacarpal in him is only found in a few Mammals besides—in Monkeys and Lemurs. The metacarpals, however, may fuse with the distal carpals —the trapezium with the first metacarpal, as in the Three- toed Sloth, or all five with the corresponding carpals, as in the Chameleon. A more complete opposition may obtain, however, than that which exists between the first and the other metacarpals in man ; as is shown by the Chameleon, in which the three radial metacarpals are as strongly as possible opposed to the two ulnar ones. In the number of these bones and their sub-equality of development man agrees with many Vertebrates above Fishes. Nevertheless, the number may be much reduced, and the proportions of the several bones may vary in differ- ent modes. Thus there may be but a single metacarpal (the third), with rudiments of two others, as in the Horse; or there may be but a single bone, which consists of the third and fourth fused together, as in the Sheep, Deer, &c. Again there may be but two, the second and third, with another rudimentary metacarpal (which answers to man's