120 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. between the frontal and the lachrymal, as is the case in Dolichotis. It may or it may not take a share in the forma- tion of the pterygoid fossa. It appears even to form part of the margin of the optic foramen in the Echidna. 30. The vomer again is a bone of remarkable constancy. It is much less concealed by other bones in Vertebrates generally than in man, and may appear not only in the palate (where it is indeed normally visible), but also externally on the surface of the skull. In the fact that in the adult condition it is a median, azygos bone, the vomer of man agrees with that of all Mam- mals, where it is mostly large. In Birds it may be large, as in the Ostriches, or nearly absent, as in the Pigeons. It is almost always single in them, but may be double, as in the Woodpeckers. In Reptiles it is generally double, but may be single, as in the Chelonians. In Batrachians it is in- variably large and double. In Fishes it is large and single in nearly all, but may be double, as in Lepidosteus and Sudis. In Mammals the shape of this bone, as might be expected, varies generally with that of the face. Thus it is extremely elongated in the Dolphins. In all above Fishes it contributes to form the partition between the nasal passages, and (except where the facial bones develop palatal plates, as in Mammals and Croco- diles) borders internally their posterior openings. 31. The inferior maxillary bone, or MANDIBLE, of man is a very characteristic bone, though substantially agreeing with that of other Mammals. It bears, however, a double relation to parts we find in lower animals. For, while inasmuch as it forms the whole lower jaw it of course agrees with, and answers to, the whole lower jaw of each bird, reptile, and fish ; yet in development and essential nature, it corresponds with a certain portion only of the lower jaw of each of these animals. Thus it is possible for the part answering to the whole lower jaw of man {i.e. the bone called "dentary") not to articulate directly with the cranium, but to be connected with it by a whole series of intermediate parts, as is the case in all Vertebrates below Mammals, and especially in osseous Fishes. We may find, as in the Sauropsida, an actual lower jaw consisting of several distinct bones (dentary, angular, sur- angular, coronoid, splenial, and articular) suspended from the skull by a single bone—the os quadatrum ;—or we may find,