in.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 109 The basi-sphenoid itself, on the other hand, may be hyper- trophied, sending out a long rostrum in front and lateral processes, as is the case in Birds ; and in man's own class it may develop descending and diverging processes, as in the Hedgehog, Centetes, and the Porpoise. In the first two we find a hemispherical depression on the under surface of the sphenoid body, reminding us of the sella turcica on its cranial surface. The pre-sphenoid attains not only more distinctness, but a much greater length, in Mammals generally than in man. In all lower forms, however, it is more or less rudimentary or absent : absent, e.g., in Batrachians ; rudimentary in Birds and some Fishes, e.g. the Carp and Salmon. The basi-sphenoid may be directly perforated by the in- ternal carotid artery, as is the case in Marsupials; or the two carotid canals may unite in it, as in Birds. The posterior boundary of the sella turcica, with its clinoid processes, is more prominent in man than in almost any other animal, and the depression of the sella is very marked in him. It may be quite indistinct, as in Marsupials and Batrachians. The sella may, on the contrary, be a deep and sudden de- pression without any prominent margins directed upwards, as in many Fishes, e.g. the Pike. A singular and unexpected function may be performed by the cartilaginous body of the sphenoid, as in the Pike and in very many other Fishes, where it forms part of the roof of a large conical excavation of the basis cranii, in which ex- cavation the muscles of the eyeball take their origin. The greater wings of the sphenoid bear in zootomy the name alisphenoid. They form a part of the cranial side-wall which is very generally present in an osseous condition, though not so in Chelonians or Batrachians. Alisphenoids are in- variably developed in all the members of man's class (Mam- malia), and also in Birds and Crocodiles. Usually they take a relatively greater share in the formation of the cranium than in man, whose skull-roof bones are so enormously ex- panded. This is notably the case in Marsupials and some Insectivora, where they extend far back and form the anterior part of the auditory bullae, and in the Kangaroo even touch the paroccipital process. The orbital plate of this bone is not developed in Mammals below man's own order, but its homologue is developed in some Birds, e.g. Accipiter and Strix; and it is possible that