466 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. It may abort altogether in the adult (the swim-bladder thus becoming quite separate from the alimentary tube), as in the Cod, Perch, and very many others. In shape the swimming-bladder may bifurcate anteriorly as in Lucio-perca, or posteriorly as in Acanthiirusj or it may be constricted towards its middle, as in the Carp ; or it may send out two blind processes on each side, as in Corvinaj or a multitude on each side, as in Johnius. Finally, the swim-bladder may give out processes from each side, each process bifurcating dorsally and ventrally, and each dorsal and ventral bifurca- tion again dividing and anastomosing with processes of the opposite side, the whole complex structure being invested by folds of the peritoneum. This maximum of complexity is ex- hibited by Callichthys. It may be connected with the in- ternal ear, as in the Carp {Cyprinus) and Loach {Cobitis), by the interven- tion of small special ossicles analo- gous to, but not homologous with, the auditory ossicles of man. In the Loach the bladder seems chiefly related to some auditory function, as it only extends to the third vertebra. The cavity of the swim-bladder may be simple, as is usually the case ; it may be divided by septa, as in Fig. 394-Air-bladder of Bairns ; it may, finally, be so sub- THE TeLEOSTKAN I ISH, J • • l j • . n . i ri ,1 i Johnius lobatus. divided into cells as to be like the lung of a- Reptile, as is the case in Amia. Retia mirabilia may exist in the swim-bladder, as in the Cod. Every representative of a lung may be absent, as in the Sharks, Rays, Pleiironectidtz, Marsipobranchii, and Amphi- 0x21s, in all of which there is no swim-bladder. The mechanism of aerial, pulmonic respiration, which exists in man, exists also in all Mammals—the diaphragm being their main agent in filling and emptying the lungs. The lungs, however, may be filled and emptied by alternate movements of the sternum towards and away from the verte- bral column. This is the case in Birds (Fig. 76), where such movements are aided by the synovial articulations between the sternal and vertebral ribs.