III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 79 and which is called the temporal bone. Above the mastoid it articulates on each side with one of the two great plate- bones which roof the skull at the top and sides, and which are called the parietals. In a new-born child the occipital bone consists of four parts : (i), a median piece in front of the foramen magnum, and which, as contributing to form the base of the skull, is called "basilar;" (2 and 3), two "lateral" pieces, one on each side of the foramen magnum, each supporting a con- dyle, and pierced for the hypoglossal nerve ; (4), a large median plate placed above the foramen magnum, and there- fore called a " supra-occipital," and which shows traces of its origin from more than one centre of ossification. 3. The parietal bone is very large, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the sagittal suture, with the occipital behind by the lambdoidal suture, anteriorly with the frontal by the coronal suture, and below with the temporal bone by a suture which is called squa?nous, because the margins of the bones it joins are so bevelled off that the temporal lies on the parietal like a scale. The parietal arises from but one centre of ossification. 4. The remaining bone of the skull-roof is the FRONTAL, which, single in the adult, is at birth divided into two parts by a line of separation which continues onwards the median separation between the contiguous parietals. The anterior end of this bone is, as it were, bent sharply backwards on each side to form two plates which roof the bony orbits, while between these plates a space is left filled up naturally by the bone forming the summit of the nasal cavity, and called th@-ethmoid. Above the margins of each orbit are slight transverse curved prominences, called the superciliary and supra-orbital ridges, while each margin itself runs out into what is named the external angular process, at each outer inferior angle of the frontal bone, and joins the bone of the cheek, or malar. Besides the unions just mentioned, the frontal unites with bones to be hereafter described, namely the sphenoid, nasals, lachrymals, and maxillaries. 5. On each side of the skull we find an exceedingly com- plex bone called the temporal. (See Figs. 83, 89, 90, and 91.) Part of it, as already mentioned, articulates with the parietal by a squamous suture, and it is this part which forms the hinder part of the zygoma and the articular " glenoid " surface for the lower jaw. A portion of bone which bounds the external opening of the