[less. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. down to complete abortion. A pelvic pair of limbs may be developed without any thoracic ones, as in Bipes, Lialis, and Ophiodes, and rudiments of the pelvic limbs may be .the only" ones present, as in Python. 10. The innominate BONE of man is one of the most distinctive of his skeleton, distinguishable at a glance from that of every other animal, widely differing even from that of the Gorilla, which, however, much exceeds it in absolute size. This large complex ossification, consisting as it does in man of three primitive elements, presents three distinct bones in lower animals—the ilium, ischium, and pubis—which, as in man, meet to form the acetabulum. The fusion of these elements into this one bone is a character which man shares not only with his own class, but also with Birds. In Reptiles, however, we find three per- manently distinct bones, whether or not they exactly corre- spond with the three elements of the pelvis of man. The fusion of the two ossa innominata in a dorsal sym- physis is a condition which sometimes occurs—as in the Ostrich. In that his ossa innomi- nata are solidly attached to the vertebral column, man agrees with all Vertebrates above Fishes, with the exception of Cetaceans and some Lizards. In Fishes, however, such a union is invariably absent, and the ossa innominata are repre- sented in them by ventral hard parts only. The junction of the two ossa in- nominata at a ventral symphysis is a less constant character. Not only is this junction - entirely absent in the class of Birds, with two excep- tions (the Ostrich and the Rhea), but in many Mammals {e.g. many Bats, and Insectivora). The ventral union of the ossa innominata with a simultaneous de- tachment from the vertebral column exists in Fishes, but in no other Vertebrates, unless in some Reptiles with a rudi- mentary pelvic structure. A detachment both from the vertebral column dorsally and Fig. 160.—Pelvis of the small Tanrec {Hem icentetes), showing the very elongated ilia and the widely open pubic symphysis.