435 THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. XL] while the aperture of the windpipe is situated below—behind the tongue (Fig. 370, g). The teeth have been already noticed in the Seventh Lesson of this course. On each side, the mouth is bounded by a fleshy cheek, only slightly distensible. 3. In reviewing the mouth as it exists in Vertebrates gene- rally, we find that it may be entirely-destitute of lips, as in Birds and Reptiles. These structures are not, however, con- fined to man's class, as they exist in some Fishes, e.g. the Carp and Dory. Nevertheless, lips are mainly mammalian structures, and may attain a much greater development than in man. Thus, in the Right-Whales the lower lip is an enor- mous structure, rising up on each side and overlapping the slit-like fissures which separate the numerous baleen plates before described. The lips may be much more extensible than in man, as in even so nearly an allied form as the Orang. The upper lip may unite with the nose to form an elongated proboscis, as in the Elephant. It may be medianly divided by a vertical separation, as in the Rabbit, the Cat, or the Camel ; and each lip on each side may send a process inwards, behind the incisors, as in the Rat. Lips, by rare exceptions, may be absent even in man's own class, as e.g. in the Ornitho- rhynchus, and they are scarcely developed in the Dolphins. An exceptional condition is seen in the Sturgeon, where an exceedingly small mouth opens on the under surface of the head, its lips being protrusible less by their own structure than by the singularly elongated and relatively large sus- pensorial apparatus before noticed. In the Marsipobranchs we find a great circular lip, destined for. suction and supported by complex special cartilages ; and finally, in the Lancelet we meet with an altogether exceptional structure, namely, a mouth in the form of a vertical fissure, and provided on each side with a series of long, slender, jointed and ciliated1 tentacles. Sensitive tentacles, numerous and of small size, may border the lip, as in the Lamprey ; or the lip may send out six or eight long tentacles, as in the Myxinoids. Higher Fishes may—as in the Mullets and Siluroids—have fleshy and sensitive labial barbs, or cirri. A soft palate is a structure peculiar to man's own class, with 1 Ciliated structures are such as bear cilia, or minute filaments which keep up an incessant waving motion. (See " Elementary Physiology,"' Lesson VII. § 3.) F F 2