95 THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] downwards from the basi-cranial plate, or rather from the lateral cartilage contiguous with it: Thus a second rod, external to the trabecula, on each side, passes forwards (almost parallel with the trabecula adjacent to it) and fuses with the Ethmo-vomerine plate. A third rod descends and fuses with its fellow of the op- posite side, so forming the groundwork of the lower jaw, which is thus laid in what is often called the first visceral arch, but which is really the third. The next, or fourth cartilaginous rod, meets with its fellow below only by means of the interposition of soft structures, and lays the foundation of the styloid processes and corni- cula of the os hyoides, which thus are contained in what is really the fourth visceral arch, though often called the second. The fifth visceral arch develops on each side, at its ven- tral part, the precursor of the cornu and body of the hyoid bone. Ossification occurs, as has been stated, in more than one point of most of the bones which are reckoned as single bones in the adult man. Thus it occurs in the lateral and superior parts of the occipital as well as in the basilar part; in the wings and inner pterygoid processes of the sphenoid, as well as in those two parts of its body which may be distinguished as the basi-sphenoid and the fire-sphenoid-—the latter sup- porting the orbital wings. In the temporal bone, as has been pointed out, many very distinct ossifications occur. The ossification of the ethmoid and of all the turbinals and vomer takes place in, around, and from the ethmo- vomerine plate and the cartilages of the trabecular, or first visceral arches. The palatine bones, internal pterygoid processes, and maxillary bones, are ossifications connected with the second visceral arches. The mandible—which arises from one point of ossification on each side—invests the ventral end of the cartilage (called Meckel's) of the third visceral arch. 18. Turning now to OTHER VERTEBRATES, we find that in the possession of a cranium man agrees with all except the Lancelet. This animal can hardly be said to have a brain at all, so slight is the enlargement of the anterior end of its spinal marrow : consequently its brain-case is, as might be expected, similarly imperfect, and consists merely of the