THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 83 III.] base of each is perforated by the foramen, which transmits the optic nerve; behind the foramen projects backwards a small "anterior clinoidprocess." Each orbital wing forms the hindermost and innermost part of the roof of the orbit. The greater ala and the orbital wing of each side are separated by a long but narrow space, termed the sphenoidal fissure. This transmits the third, fourth, and sixth nerves and the first branch of the fifth nerve. In addition to the junc- tions already noted, each ala unites with the malar bone of its own side, and the body of the sphenoid is in contact with a bone, the vomer, hereafter to be noticed. At an early period the sphenoid bone may be said to be made up of ten parts: (1) the bulk of the body; (2) the anterior part of the body, or pre-sphenoidal part; (3 and 4) a pair of great wings and external pterygoid processes, or two alisphenoidal parts; (5 and 6) a pair of lesser wings, or orbito-sphenoidal parts; (7 and 8) the pair of internal ptery- goid processes, or proper pterygoid bones ; and (9 and 10) the lingular sphenoidales. 7. The ethmoid,1 or sieve-like bone, is of singular deli- cacy of structure and complexity of shape. It is placed between the skull proper and the face, hanging down between the orbits. It consists of a transverse cribriform plate and of three vertical portions. The cribriform plate is so called from its sievelike condition (being perforated with nu- merous small holes for the nerves of smell) ; it extends between the orbital plates of the frontal and the three vertical portions. The first of these three is median, and its summit, called crista galli, projects a little upwards into the cranial cavity, while the main part is below the cribriform plate, and forms the upper and front part of the partition between the nares, whence it is termed the " median ethmoid? The two other parts hang down from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and each is termed a " lateral ethmoid:' The outer surface of each of these is smooth, and appears 1 From hQn°Qi a sieve. G 2 Fig. 87.—Man's Ethmoid Bone. eg, Crista galli, rising verti- cally above the horizontal surface of the cribriform plate; le, lateral mass of the ethmoid ; me, median ethmoid.