ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. 25.8 [less. reputed lowest are larger and more equal to the teeth next in front of them than is the case with Europeans. When we descend to the creatures nearest to man in bodily structure (the Apes of the old world), though we find the number of teeth identical with that in him, yet a striking difference is produced by the large size, especially in the males, of the canines, which are true tusks for defence or for attack. The last molar, or wisdom tooth, is also generally larger relatively than in man, and in some forms is consider- ably the largest molar of the lower jaw. The large size of the canines causes a separation between the lower canine and the first lower pre-molar, and between the upper canine and the outer incisor, in order to provide space for their apices to pass. These interspaces are each called a diastema? and are wanting in man, where the teeth are all normally close and contiguous. This contiguity and absence of any diastema is a character which man shares only with the little Lemur Tarsius, and with a certain extinct hoofed quadruped, the Anoplotherium. Most Mammals have teeth of definite kinds—incisors, canines, or molars. This is not the case, however, with all, as, for example, the Dolphins have teeth which are all nearly alike. Below the class of Mammals, only rarely in certain Lizards {e.g. the Agamas) do teeth simulate canines with small teeth between them in the front of the mouth simulating incisors. 25. The INCISORS of man are closely resembled by those of the Apes, but in some Apes of the new world (Pithecia) the lower incisors, instead of being nearly vertical, are long, slender, approximated together, and inclined strongly forwards Fig. 225—Grinding Surface of the Teeth of the Right Half of the Lower Jaw of the Lemuroid Microcebus, showing the close apposition of the canine to the two elongated incisors, which are almost horizontal in position. as well as upwards—a condition still more decided in the Lemuroids. The most singular form of the Lemuroid group (the Aye-aye—Cheiromys) has but two incisors above and two below. These, however, are very large, and grow from permanent pulps during the whole of life, from deep 1 From diaffrti/jii, to separate.