ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. 8 &c, and all polyps, including many compound animals which "•row up in a tree-like manner, and the minute creatures which by their secular existence have formed not only such parts of the earth's surface as reefs and coral islands, but even the State of Florida itself, of which they were un- doubtedly the first founders. _ . Lastly, we have the sub-kingdom Protozoa,1 containing all the lowest forms of animal life, placed together rather owing to the absence in them of characters possessed by higher groups than from positive characters which they share in common. Such are the Infusoria,2 the sponges, and those wonderful Foraminifera3 which took (and are taking at the bottom of the Atlantic) so large a part in the formation of the chalk, and therefore built up much of Old England itself. Fig. 7.—A Foraminifer Fig. S.—One of the lowest Protozoa {Globigerina). {Protomceba), after Haeckel. In the lowest grade of the animal kingdom is a creature, Protogenesf at once structureless and devoid of any constant form, as its shape varies like that of Proteus himself. A mere morsel of semi-fluid jelly, floating in the ocean, it is destitute of any organ, even so much as a cell, and exhibits animality in the last degree of structureless simplicity. The last six sub-kingdoms may very conveniently be taken together, and spoken of as the hivertebrata, in contrast to the highest sub-kingdom, from which in so many points the other primary groups agree in differing. Thus we have the Verte- brata on the one hand, and on the other the Invertebrata, including the Mollusca, Annulosa, Molluscoida, Annuloida, Ccelenterata, and Protozoa. 11. Having made this rapid survey of the whole animal kingdom, it will be well to consider the general characters 1 Protozoa, from ttpwtoq, first ; £«ov, animal. 3 So called because found in infusions when left ex-posed to the air for a time. 3 Foramina andfero, having holes cr perforations. * ripS-rot;, first; yive<rt)at, to be born.