488 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [llss. skin placed one on each side between the eye and the nose, as in Crotalus. There may be a series of glands in each thigh, with a row of conspicuous openings, called femoral pores, on its inner surface, as in very many Lizards (Lacerta, Monitor, &c), or in the armpit, as in Iguana, or in front of the cloacal opening, as in Hysteropus. We may find [e.g. in the Chameleon) cutaneous structures termed chromatophores, which are little sacs containing pigment of various colours, and each with an aperture which, when open, allows the colour contained to appear, and when closed conceals it. It is by the various contractions of these sacs that the Chameleon effects those changes of colour for which it is celebrated. It is in the next lower class, Batrachia, that we find the cutaneous glands carried relatively to their maximum of development. They may be aggregated in a mass behind the eye and above the tympanum on each side, forming the so-called " parotoid " glands, as in the common Toad. There may be a similar structure on the arms, as in Pelo- bates, or on the upper side of the leg, as in Bufo Calamita. The whole skin of the back may be of this nature, as in Kalophrynus, or these glands may be localised in two longi- tudinal series, as in Salamandra, where they extend from the head to the end of the tail. Their secretion maybe more or less acrid, as in the last-named genus and in the Toad. It is not certain that true cutaneous glands, homologous with those of higher Vertebrates, exist in the class of Fishes. This is remarkable, seeing the very great development they attain in the Batrachian class of Ichthyopsidans. Nevertheless, a copious mucus exists on the skin in Fishes, and notably in the Eel. This escapes from the deeper structures through minute orifices, but is by some naturalists considered to be rather itself a modified epidermis than a true cutaneous secretion. In most Fishes there is a complex system of special canals, the nature of which has been commonly deemed excretory, but is now considered to be rather sensory in function. These canals are usually disposed symmetrically, and are filled with a clear gelatinous substance. They con- stitute the " lateral line," the passage of which modifies and marks the scales it traverses, and is thus useful in zoological classification—the lateral line forming a more or less con-