THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 367 IX.] the corpus callosum) which extends much nearer to the an- terior than to the posterior end of the longitudinal fissure. In front of the corpus callosum is seen nothing but the anterior fossa of the cranial cavity; but behind the corpus callosum (after removing that fold of the dura mater, the tentorium—so often ossified in brutes—which extends in from behind, below the cerebrum) we find the upper surface of another part of the cerebro-spinal axis, called the cerebellum, which is marked with numerous transverse, close, narrow grooves. To remove the entire brain from the skull it is necessary to cut through that part of the cerebro-spinal axis where the brain (at the foramen magnum) becomes con- tinuous with the spinal marrow. 5. Having done this, and inverted the organ, a variety of parts come into view, its inferior surface being very irregular and complex as compared with its superior surface. Proceeding from behind forwards, we find that the part in front of the section which we have just made is narrow and cylindrical. This is the medulla oblongata. It is marked by a median groove, on each side of which is what is called the anterior pyramid, and outside each such pyramid is a rounded, oblong prominence, termed the olivary body; and external to and behind each of these is a band named the restiform tract The cut surface of the medulla exhibits that double-crescentic arrangement of grey tissue described in the " Elementary Physiology," Lesson XI. § 5. On each side of the medulla oblongata is seen a large con- vex mass of tissue marked with many curved, transverse, narrow grooves. This is the cerebellum , and its two lateral parts meet together behind the medulla and form what is called the inferior vermis. This latter is the under part of that median portion of the cerebellum which we saw by divaricating the hinder parts of the cerebral hemispheres— and which is called the superior vermis (Fig. 328, sv\ The median part of the cerebellum is small compared with its two great lateral lobes. The cerebellum lies in that fossa of the cranial cavity which we have seen to be bounded in front by the petrous part of the temporal bones, and behind by the line of attach- ment of the tentorium to the occipital bone. On each side of the anterior part of the under surface of the cerebellum is a small process, or lobe, called Xhejlocculus. It does not occupy any-special fossa in the temporal bone. Continuing on in the middle line, we find in front of the