ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. [less. 128 the upper beak, being thin and elastic, are more or less mov- able on the rest of the skull, and in the Parrots even by a joint. In Lizards the anterior part of the skull is also more or less movable on the posterior part. In Fishes we meet with an extreme mobility of the jaws (the mandible being sus- pended by a chain of bones), as also in Serpents, in which not only is each side of the lower jaw separately movable and united at the symphysis by a very elastic ligament, but each part of the upper jaw can also be advanced singly ; and thus, by successively advancing one tooth-bearing part of the jaw after another, these animals rather drag themselves over their prey than swallow it. 34. The general conformation of the skull shows that almost always the proportion borne by the jaws to the cranium is greater than in man; and often, as in the Stork, the Whale, the Gavial, or the Sword-fish, it is the facial part which is enormously predominant. Thus the skull may be extraordi- narily elongated as compared with that of man, and tapering anteriorly, or it may be much broader in front than behind, as in the Hammer-headed Shark. It may also be very elon- gated but cylindrical, as in Centetes. It may be strangely flattened, as in the Matamata Tortoise (Chelys), or it may be singularly compressed from side to side, and high, as in the fish Arteriosus. Considering now the external SURFACE of the skull, the superior region of man's is very exceptional in its extent, its smoothness, and its rotundity. Generally in man's own class a prominent sagittal ridge runs from in front backwards in the line of the sagittal suture. This may be enormous, as in some Seals and Carnivora, and even in the very Anthropoid Gorilla. One of the most exceptional conditions which this region may present is that exhibited by the Sperm Whale, or Cacha- lot, where the cranium forms above, a great semicircular basin for holding the spermaceti. In this and certain other animals of the same order there is a want of symmetry in the skull when looked at from above ; the two nostrils and pre-maxillse being more or less unequally developed. This asymmetry is carried much further in some of the true Fishes (namely, the Pluronectidoe, e.g. the Sole, Turbot, Flounder, &c), where the anterior part of the skull is extraordinarily twisted so as to allow both the eyes to come to be on one side of the head. Generally when the upper surface of the skull is looked at, the anterior nares are more or less inconspicuous, and placed in front. In certain animals, however, as the Elephant, the