THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. 263 VII.] all Rodents, i.e. in all Rats. Squirrels, Hares, Marmots, and Porcupines. Canines may grow from a root essentially similar to that of man's canine, or from a double fang, as in Galeopithecus and the Mole. On the other hand, as has been said, they may grow from permanent pulps. Very rarely, e.g. in the Tanrec (Ceu fetes), the points of the lower canines are received into corresponding pits on the under surface of the upper jaw. 27. The MOLAR teeth of man present a medium character when compared with those of the other members of his class. Often we find molar teeth relatively larger, broader, more complex, and more suited for grinding hard or tough vege- table substances than in him. We see, on the contrary, that they may often become relatively smaller, narrower, and more trenchant, so as to serve better for cutting and dividing flesh. The maximum both of size and complexity is attained by the grinders of the Asiatic Elephant, where the worn surface presents a great number of narrow transverse ridges, the nature of which will be explained under the head of Structure. The greatest simplicity of form is seen in the Walrus, where each molar is perfectly simple and flat; and in the blood-sucking Bat Desmodus, where each molar forms a single wedge-shaped blade. The total number of molars reaches its maximum in the existing creation in the little Marsupial Myrmecobius, where they are thirty-four (f) in number. The smallest number is met with in the Australian Rat Hydromys, where we find f. 28. The distinction between pre-molars and true molars which exists in man, exists also in the great majority of animals belonging to his class. The number of PRE-MOLARS is often more numerous than in him, there being three even in the American Apes, and four in the Dog. In form the pre-molars are generally, as in man, smaller and less complex than are the true molars; but in some beasts, as for example in the Horse, there is no difference in this respect. The first pre-molars soon present a striking difference from those of man. Thus, even in the old-world Apes, the upper one has its external cusp more prolonged, and the lower one has its front edge elongated and blade-like. These teeth may assume the shape of canines, as in Hemice?itetes and in the Camel.