THE MUSCLES. 351 VIII.] second muscle (Fig. 314, ST), which, springing from the ischium, passes downwards and ends in a fascia outside the lower part of the flexor longus digitorum. The semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus may, as in the Seal, be represented by a muscle arising from the anterior coccygeal vertebrae and inserted into the tibia, some tendinous fibres going to the plantar surface of the hallux. 26. Of the MUSCLES OF the LEG. The tibialis anticus, even in Anthropoid Apes, may have the part going to the hallux so distinct as to be reckoned a distinct muscle— sometimes called the abductor longus hallucis. It may be unquestionably double, as in the Echidna. It may have a double origin and a single insertion, as in the Agouti. It may be inserted into the second metatarsal, as in Hyrax ; and may be altogether wanting, as in the Pig. It is inserted into the tarso-metatarsal bone in Birds, and is situate quite on the inner aspect of the leg in Chameleo (Fig. 310). It exists down to the Urodeles, being apparently double even in Menobranchus. It may arise from the femur, as in the Frog. Extensor proprius hallucis. This muscle may be altogether absent, as in the Hare and Rabbit. It may even in man's order {e.g. in Lemur) take origin from the tibia as well as from the fibula. The tendon of the muscle may be inserted into the second digit instead of into the hallux, which is the case in the Echidna. Often this muscle is blended with the extensor longus digitorum pedis. A muscle may exist in Reptiles (e.g. in Chameleo) arising from the lower two-thirds of the front of the fibula and inserted into the dorsum of the second metatarsal ; and even in Urodeles (e.g. Menopoma and Menobranchus) a small muscle arises from the lower part of the fibula and goes to the hallux, or, in the absence of this, to the second digit. The extensor longus digitorum pedis may spring from the femur, as in the Pig, Hare, Hyrax, and Horse. Apart from diminution in the number of the tendons resulting from the atrophy of certain digits, the subdivision and distribution of the ultimate tendons may vary even in the Primates. It may end in two tendons only, going respectively to the second and third metatarsal bones (as in the Iguana), or it may be inserted exclusively into the third, as in Chamceleo Parsonii. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis is subject to great varia- tions in extent and arrangement in different animals. It may be altogether wanting, as in the Hare and Rabbit. It may