ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 68 having many ribs indeed, Fishes few or many, and Che- lonians few, but all having no sternum, so that every rib must be reckoned to be a false rib in them—and this in spite of their fixity in Tortoises. In the proportion of true to false ribs man occupies an intermediate position. Thus the number of true ribs is more in excess in some other animals than in him, as e.g. in the Seals, and in Birds ; yet the number of false ribs is greatly in excess in some other animals, especially in the Whalebone Whales, in which there may be but one pair of true ribs. In the shape of the ribs man is normal, and their length always exceeds their breadth or thickness. They may, how- ever, be vastly thicker or more massive than in him, as is the case in the Manatee, or habitually form thickenings which but for their constancy would be deemed a diseased condition (pathological), as in the fishPlatax. They may also greatly exceed the breadth possessed by man's, as in the Two-toed Ant-eater, where they overlap one another ; they may, on the contrary, be less flattened than in him, as in the Carnivora. As to the number of pairs of ribs, this has already been generally indicated in speaking of the dorsal vertebras, though in Birds we may have ribs coming from vertebrae which are generally counted as " sacral." There may be as few as five or six pairs, as in Amphiuma, or the number may reach 320, as in some Pythons. In man's class there may be as many as twenty-four pairs, as in the Two-toed Sloth, or as few as nine, as in the Hyperoodon. In the fact that ribs (distinct and articulated) are confined to the dorsal region, man agrees with most Vertebrates. Such ribs, however (more or less free and more or less long), may exist in the cervical region, as we see in the Crocodile and in many Reptiles; in the so-called " sacral" region, as we see in Birds ; and even in the caudal regions, as we see in Meno- branchus. Of such ribs, however, enough has been said in treating of those regions of the spine. The function of aiding respiration is one which the ribs possess in the higher Vertebrata, but quite other purposes may be subserved by them in addition to, or instead of, respiratory action. Thus certain ribs, by excessive elonga- tion, may support a flying membrane, as in the Flying Dragon, or by their sudden erection expand the skin of the neck, as in the Cobra. Terrestrial locomotion may also be due to these parts, as in