[LESS. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. 426 as in the Monotremes. Instead of a single superior cava there may be two, the blood from the right and left sides of the head and pectoral limbs being gathered by two entirely distinct sets of vessels, each set ending respectively in a right and in a left vena cava, the two venae cavae each opening by a distinct aperture into the right auricle. This is the case in very many Mammals, e.g. in the Rabbit. The middle sacral vein of course increases in importance with the increase of the coccygeal region—being thus very large in the Cetacea. Below man's class, and that of Birds, the blood from the caudal region and the pelvic limbs may enter the kidneys and be therein re-distributed by ramifying branches, similar to the re-distribution of the blood by the portal circulation in the liver. This is the case, e.g., in Batrachians. Here, how- ever, part of the blood from these sources is carried on, by abdominal veins, directly to the liver. But these veins may go directly to the vena cava inferior, as in Birds. The great veins, before entering the heart, may dilate into a rhythmically contractile sinus venosus, as in most Batrachians and Reptiles. The blood of the body may be brought back by cardinal veins and hepatic veins exclusively, as is the case in Fishes. These cardinal veins consist, on each side of the body, of an anterior one receding from the head and a posterior one advancing from the tail—the anterior and posterior cardinal vein of each side uniting to form a venous trunk (the ductus Cuvieri) which descends from the point at which these join, to the sinus venosus of the heart; thus exactly reproducing the primitive condition of man's venous system. The portal vein itself may be rhythmically contractile, as in Myxine&wA Amphioxus; or the caudal vein may possess a pair of small contractile vesicles, as in the Eel. The root veins of the limbs may be contractile, as in many Batra- chians, or veins so remote from the centre of the circula- tion as those which traverse the wing membranes of Bats may be similarly contractile. Finally, as in Amphioxus, we may find many veins to be possessed of this property. The veins may be destitute of valves, even in man's own class, as e.g. in the Cetacea. ii. We see, then, that not only structurally, but also physiologically, the circulating system, even in man's own sub-kingdom, may present very important divergences from the conditions we find in him.