IX,] THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 375 The hind-brain sends out an outgrowth above, which is the cerebellum. Its upper wall becomes excessively thin, a mere delicate layer of epithelium, which roofs its cavity—the fourth ventricle. The anterior end of the first vesicle (or fore-brain) becomes the lamina terminalis. On each side of it another vesicle grows out, which is one of the cerebral hemispheres, and the aperture of communication is the future foramen of Munro. From the anterior part of the floor of each cerebral hemi- sphere yet another vesicle buds forth, which is the future olfactory lobe (or nerve), the cavity of which becomes ob- literated in the adult. The three original hollow vesicles and the olfactory lobes remain small, but the cerebral hemispheres grow out of all proportion to the other parts. They also become united together by an outgrowth of transverse connecting fibres (the corpus callosum), which outgrowth, by this mode of develop- ment, comes to enclose what was originally the deepest part of the great longitudinal fissure. The space thus enclosed is, of course, bounded on each side by part of the inner wall of one of the cerebral hemispheres. These parts of the inner cerebral walls become however excessively thin, and the two parts together form the septum lucidum, while the space enclosed between them becomes the fifth ventricle. Thus the fifth ventricle is quite different in its nature from all the other ventricles of the brain, it being taken in as it were from outside space, while all the others are either remnants of the primitive embryonic dorsal groove and canal, or (as the lateral and primitive olfactory ventricles) outgrowths from and extensions of such. 9. We may now better understand the nature of some of the parts before noticed. The fornix is the median part of what was originally the back of the hemispheres. It (together with the lyra which joins the two diverging and posterior portions of the fornix), really forms part of the outer wall or bag of the cerebrum, enclosing the lateral ventricles—each half of the fornix belonging to one of the hemispheres. As these grow back- wards, the fornix looks more and more downwards, following the course of the developing " temporal lobe." Beneath the fornix is the roof of the third ventricle, i.e. the velum interpositum, and the space between the upper sur- face of this velum and the under surface of the closely applied lyra is morphologically the outside of the brain, though in