401 IX.] THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. besides this each gives off a minute filament (or a pair) to what is called the sympathetic system. Of these two series of conspicuous branches, it is the ventral one which constitutes the nerves of the limbs. In the part of the body intervening between the pectoral and pelvic limbs, the ventral branches pass, in the thoracic region, between the ribs, as intercostal nerves ; and in the abdominal region they run along between the internal oblique and the transversalis muscles. It may be, by rare exception (as in the Ganoid Fishes), that the dorsal and ventral nerves, instead of being the bifurcating branches from a common root, are distinct nerves, each arising by its own root. 28. The nerves OF THE ARM of man result from the inter- mixture, in what is called the brachial plextis, of the ventral branches of the four lowest cervical and the first dorsal nerves. Issuing from the plexus, the most noteworthy nerves are the tdnar and median, which supply the pronator muscles and the flexors of the digits, and the musculo-spiral nerve, which supplies the supinator muscles and the extensors of the digits. The last-mentioned nerve comes round the back of the humerus to pass along towards the radial side of the front of the fore-arm. The median nerve, passing down the inner side of the upper arm, crosses to the front of the elbow and descends along the middle of the fore-arm. The ulnar nerve passes down between the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. The position and number of those spinal nerves which supply the limbs may be very different from what we find in man. Thus, in Birds (which often have so many cervical vertebras) the limb nerves are more remote from the head, while in Batrachians they are closer to it, and the brachial plexus may be formed but by two. Nevertheless a general resemblance exists with regard to the nerves of the arm in all Vertebrates above Fishes, ex- cepting, of course, those animals in which the pectoral limbs are absent or rudimentary. In Fishes, however, we find very different conditions. (1) We may have, as in many osseous Fishes, but the first two pairs of spinal nerves for the supply of the pectoral fin ; or (2) , as in the Rays, we may have an enormous number of spinal nerves (much more than half those of the entire body), which, though collected and connected in different bundles, D D