ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. 234 [less. The second digit of the foot never aborts (the other digits being well developed), as we have seen to be the case with the second digit of the hand in the Potto. Certain resemblances occur which might not be expected. Thus when, as in Birds, the distal part of the tarsus anchyloses with the metatarsus, the distal part of the carpus also anchyloses with the metacarpus, and this in spite of the greatly different use of the parts in the two limbs respectively. But the greatest degree of resemblance between the pectoral and pelvic limbs is shown in the existing Tortoises, and in the extinct Ichthyosauria and Plesiosauria, where we find a concomitant shortening of the long limb bones, and multi- plication of phalanges. Fig. 200.—Skeleton of Fig. 201.—Skeleton of Plesiosaurus. Ichthyosaurus. Certain discrepancies, however, should be noted. Thus the pelvic member is never elongated or concentrated to such excess, as is the pectoral member in the Bats and the Moles. Again, we may have, as in Chameleons, three pre-axial digits opposed to two post-axial ones in the hand, and two pre-axial digits opposed to three post-axial ones in the foot. Though in rare instances present alone, yet, when both are present, the pectoral limbs never show so persistent and considerable an inferiority of development in air-breathing- animals as do the pelvic limbs in Fishes. On the contrary, there is never a highly developed pelvic girdle without a rudiment of a pelvic limb; but we may, as we have seen in Anguis, have a well-developed pectoral girdle without any rudiment of a pectoral limb. Again, we may have (as in Lialis) leg-bones without a foot (fig. 168), but we never meet with arm-bones without a hand. 27. It is obvious that the importance of the axial skeleton —related as it is to the brain, the spinal marrow, and the nerves which pass out from these—is far greater than that of the appendicular skeleton. Accordingly we have found that the latter may be entirely absent (as in the Lamprey, the Ophiomorpha, and many Serpents), but that the former is constantly present in man's sub-kingdom.