THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] *37 portion immediately above the cribriform plate forms a more distinct chamber than exists in man. As we de- scend through the mammalian class we often find it much prolonged and of a large relative size, as in the Sheep, Pig, and others, especially Marsupials, e.g. the Thylacine. In some forms, however, e.g. the Dolphins, the olfactory fossa is quite wanting. Great difference in this respect may exist in nearly allied forms—e.g. in the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna, in the first of which the cribriform plate is very small and bird-like, while in the second it is enormously large. (2) The middle fossa is relatively larger in man than it is in very many lower forms, but not in all, as we see by the Dolphins. The foramina vary, as already noticed in de- scribing the several cranial bones. Very often the foramen rotundum and sphenoidal fissure may be blended in a single opening, as in the Squirrel; or the optic foramen may form but one aperture with the sphenoidal fissure, as in the Stag and Opossum ; or the two optic foramina may be united into a single median foramen, as in the Hare. The foramen ovale may be one with the foramen lacerum anterius, as in the Horse. The optic foramina and sphenoidal fissures may together be represented, on the inside of the skull, by a single opening, as in the Swan ; and sometimes the optic foramen, sphenoidal fissure, and foramen rotundum may be included in a common aperture, as in the Booby. The sella turcica may be as sharply limited in other forms as in man. On the other hand, the pituitary fossa may be altogether unmarked, as in Batrachians. This fossa may dip down into a large canal running for- wards and excavated in the basis cranii, as in many Fishes, e.g. the Pike. This singular cavity has the cartilaginous floor of the skull for its roof, while the para-sphenoid bone encloses it below. (3) The posterior fossa may be much more sharply defined than in man, as when a lamella of bone (consisting of an ossified tentorium) is attached to the projecting border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. The proportion borne by this fossa to the middle one varies with the size and develop- ment of the cerebellum which it shelters. Only in man and a few Apes (notably the Squirrel Monkey, CJuysothrix) can this fossa be said to form any considerable part of the floor of the skull. The internal auditory foramen in all man's class and In Birds is placed as in him, and there