[less. 244 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. A feather is formed by means of the peculiar structure of the dermal papilla which gives rise to it. That papilla (instead of being smooth, like the papilla of a hair) has on one side a deep vertical groove, broadest at the base and vanishing towards the apex of the papilla. Other less deep grooves go from each side of this vertical groove at right angles to it, and at very short distances from one another. They extend all but round the papilla, vanishing at the middle of the opposite side to that which bears the vertical groove. Grooves smaller still and much shorter are given off again at right angles to the second set of grooves, parallel therefore as far as they go to the main and vertical groove. Now, as horny matter is deposited on the papilla, it be- comes thickest where the grooves are deepest, and of course thinnest where there are no grooves at all, i.e. in the inter- spaces of the grooves. With the progress of growth, this whole horny investment splits up along these interspaces of thinnest deposit. The part which was in the main ver- tical groove is thickest of all, and becomes the shaft of the feather, the parts in the secondary grooves become the " barbs," and the still smaller portions at right angles to the latter the " barbules." When these last are long and hang freely, they form the sort of structure we see in an ostrich feather. Occasionally, as in the Cassowary, a feather will have two shafts ; this is due to the papilla having borne a vertical groove on each side. ii. The only form of epidermal appendage, besides hair, which is found in man is the NAIL. The structure of this organ is also explained in the Twelfth Lesson of " Elementary Physiology." It is not formed in a Fig. 210.— Transverse Section of a Natl. a, small lateral folds of the integument ; b, nail; c, bed of the nail, with its ridges. bag (like a hair is), but only in a fold of skin (the root of the nail), where horny matter is deposited upon a number of minute, parallel, raised ridges of the deep layer—or dermis.