ill.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 131 Essentially palatal structures, namely the pterygoid bones, in forms below the mammalian class, generally connect the palatine bones with the quadrate bone which suspends the lower jaw. The bony palate may be enriched by the addition of a bone not known in Mammals (the os transversum), as is the case in Reptiles; or of two extra bones (the ecto-pterygoid and the ento-pterygoid); besides a third peculiar ossification (the meta-pterygoid), as in bony Fishes. (2) The middle, or guttural part, is a noteworthy one, both on account of the physiological importance of the structures which modify its composition, and also on account of the value which its various modifications possess for the purposes of zoological classification. Its condition in man is exceptional, both as regards the large proportion it bears to the anterior part of the basis cranii, and also as regards its small elongation antero-pos- teriorly as compared with its breadth. The variations presented as regards the mastoid and sty- loid processes, the carotid foramina, alisphenoidal canals (for the external carotid arteries), &c, have been already noticed in speaking of the separate cranial bones, and need not here be repeated. Sometimes, as in the Crocodile and Great Ant-eater, this guttural part of the basis cranii is nearly concealed by the immense extension of the palate. At other times, as in the . Horse, it is much exposed by the smallness of the backward prolongation of the bony palate. The pterygoid fossae are found only in man's class, and by no means always in it. Generally, as in the Dog, the pterygoid bones are present, but the descending external pterygoid process is absent; so that the pterygoid fossae want seemingly their outer walls. The pterygoids may be swollen out into bullate expansions^ as in the Mole and Sloths. Very often, especially in the smaller Mammals, the part answering more or less to the petrous part of the temporal and to the meatus auditorius externus may be, as it were, blown up into vesicular air-containing prominences, termed* auditory bullae. The Eustachian tubes may unite to open into the mouth by a median foramen, as in Birds, or may be utterly absent, as in Fishes. (3) The posterior part of the inferior region of man's skull is very exceptionally developed, owing to the advanced situa- K 2