421 THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. X.] Very different proportions may exist between the external and internal carotids, compared with what exists in man ; and the course taken by each may vary in ways which characterize different groups of Mammals respectively. The brachial artery may also break up into a number of small branches running side by side, as in the Sloths and Slow Lemurs. The femoral arteries of the same animals are also simi- larly subdivided, and the same condition obtains in some other animals, e.g. the Echidna. Great convoluted retia mirabilia may also be formed by the intercostal arteries, as we see in the Cetacea, e.g. the Porpoise. A small rete mirabile (in what is called—as we shall see in Lesson XII.—a pseudobranchia) may be developed from the first (or hyoidean) aortic arch, as e.g. in Eepidosiren and osseous Fishes. The intercostal arteries may be less numerous than the intercostal spaces, as in many Fishes. The artery of the pectoral limb may be given off from the dorsal aorta, almost immediately after its formation, as in Fishes. The dorsal aorta may dilate beneath each vertebral cen- trum of the abdomen, as in the Carp. It may give off many small branches to the kidneys, as in Fishes. The internal iliac arteries may be given off distinctly from the external, as in the Kangaroo ; and, as in the same animal, the middle sacral artery may be continued on of large size. The internal iliacs may be larger than the external, as in Birds. The inferior mesenteric artery may abort in man's own class, as e.g. in the Kangaroo ; and the two cceliac arteries may ramify in a sort of rete mirabile, as in the Porbeagle Shark. 8. The structure of the veins, their coats, valves, and the primary facts as to their conditions, have been noted in the first two Lessons of " Elementary Physiology," but the re- capitulation of certain points is here necessary in order to avoid obscurity. The veins, like the arteries, may be divided into two very unequal categories. The first of these comprises all those which aid in bringing back blood from all parts of the body to the right side of the heart : this consists then of the systemic veins. The second category includes only those veins which bring back blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart (the left auricle)—the pulmonary veins.