THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 139 III.J as Birds and many Reptiles, they are only divided from each other by a thin interorbital septum, made up of bone or carti- lage or membrane. They may, on the contrary, be so widely separated (as in the Hammer-headed Shark) that the cranium is much broader between them than it is anywhere else. Although it is peculiar to man's order to have the orbit enclosed as in him, yet there are other creatures which have the orbit protected by a bony rim; as is the case in Ruminants {e.g. the Sheep), in the Crocodiles and Turtles, some Lizards, and some Frogs. This enclosure is effected by the junction of the malar with the true frontal bone (in Mammals, except in the Horse, where the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone intervenes) or with a post-frontal bone. In many fishes, however, the orbit is bounded inferiorly by a chain of skinbones (dermal ossicles), the suborbital bones, which seem to be serial repetitions of the lachrymal; and in some Birds {e.g. the Woodcock and the Macaw, Calyptorhyucus) there is an analogous formation, and the orbits are completely encircled by bone. In the immense majority of man's class, however, the orbit is not even encircled by bone, and its separation from the temporal fossa is not in many even marked by a post-orbital process of the frontal. The lachrymal foramen (which exists in most terrestrial forms) need not open within the orbit, but may be, as in Lemurs, upon the cheek. The orbits may be continued backwards (as in many osseous Fishes, e.g. the Pike) into a prolonged conical canal situate beneath the cerebral cavity, and protected inferiorly by the para-sphenoid. In the possession of nasal fossce limited and defined by osseous structures man agrees with the whole of the Vertebrata above Fishes, except the very lowest of the Batrachians. In the possession of two such fossae separated by a wide or narrow septum, and separated from the mouth by an osseous plate, so that they open posteriorly only into the pharynx,1 man agrees with all the members of his class, and with the Crocodiles also. The sheltering of spongy bones (or turbinals) is a character which the nasal fossae possess in almost all Mammals, though such parts may be entirely wanting, as in the Dolphins. These spongy bones may be represented only by cartilagi- nous structures, as we find in the classes Reptilia and Batrachia. 1 For the pharynx see Lesson XI.