118 E LEMENTA RY ANA TO MY. [less. Often it is of great size, as in the Hare, Ant-eaters, and Armadillos, or, as in the Deer, not only largely developed, both in the orbit and on the cheek, but also presenting a peculiar 'fossa destined to receive and shelter a special glandular structure. This bone may join the malar, as in the Squirrel and the Hog. Its junction with an os planum is a very exceptional condition, though found in Apes as in man. It may join the palatine bone in the orbit, as e.g. in the Rhinoceros. It may even complete the sub-orbital foramen superiorly, as in Dolichotis. The lachrymal may develop a small process, as in the Hare, or even a large osseous bulla, as in the Hippopotamus and most Ruminants, notably in the Giraffe. 29. The PALATINE bones of man are important and con- stant elements of the vertebrate skull, being not only repre- sented by ossified tracts in every osseous cranium, but being also clearly represented by cartilage in skulls which never become divided into separate bony elements. The condition, however, which each palatine presents in man is a very exceptional one when we compare it with that prevailing in Vertebrates generally, and its form and propor- tions are exceptional even amongst Mammals, its vertical extent in him so greatly exceeding its antero-posterior dimen- sion. Already, in Apes, its length is greater in proportion to us height than in man. This elongation may be enormously increased, as in the Great Ant-eater—though the prolongation of the muzzle does not necessarily carry with it a similar increase in length of the palatine, as we see in the Dolphin, Globicephalns, where it is comparatively short. That the posterior margin of the palate bones should form the antero-inferior border of the posterior nares is a character which man shares with most of his class, and with no other. In some Mammals, however (as we have seen), it is the ptery- goids which per/orm this function, as in the only Sauro- psidans (Crocodilia) having a palate with a solid bony roof like man's. It is the rule, however, that the anterior margin of the palate bones forms the postero-inferior margin of the posterior nares. as we find to be the case in Birds, non-crocodilian Reptiles, and Batrachians. This difference of position in the palate bones is owing to the fact that the horizontal, or palatine, plate, and the greater