469 XII.] THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. toed Sloth (Bradypus\ in which it is bent abruptly on itself in a single fold ; and with Reptiles, except some Crocodiles and Chelonians in which it is similarly bent. It may be still more bent, even coiled (as in many Birds), and the coils may lie beneath the skin, external to the pectoral muscles, as in Anas semi-palmata, or sheltered in an excavation in the keel of the sternum, as in the common Crane and male wild Swan. In that there are two bronchi and no more, man agrees with the great majority of Vertebrates that possess a trachea. One bronchus, however, may abort with its appended lung (as in many Serpents), or there may be a third bronchus, as in Ruminants, the Hog, and Cetaceans. The rings of the trachea may be ossified, as in most Birds. They may be as few as three, as in the Dugong ; or as many as no, as in the Camel; or even 300, as in the Flamingo and the Boa. They may completely encircle the tube, as in Birds generally, and in the Horse (though in most Mammals they are incomplete behind, especially in Rodents). Some of the rings of the trachea may be incomplete in front, as in the Emeu. The trachea may increase in size downwards, as in the Turkey ; or it may present a more sudden enlargement before bifurcating to form the bronchi, as in the Merganser ; or two such enlargements, as in the Goosander. It may be divided by a septum extending from above downwards, as in the Penguin and Sphargis. A special structure may be developed (as in most Birds) at the junction of the trachea and bronchi. This is the syirinx, and is the organ of song in singing birds. It is also called the lower larynx, and is quite a different part from the true or upper larynx, shortly to be described. The syrinx is generally formed by the coalescence or modi- fied shape of the lower rings of the trachea and the upper ones of the bronchi, the latter being incomplete internally, so that the sides of the bronchi which look towards each other are at their upper part merely membranous, forming the membrana tympaniformis. Internally the syrinx is generally divided by a bar of bone, from the upper margin of which a delicate membrane ascends into the trachea, ending in a free concave margin, whence it is termed the membrana semi- lunaris. This highly vibratile membrane, together with two elastic folds of mucous membrane, placed one on each outer side of the commencement of each bronchus, are the special