ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 192 of the Ostrich may possibly represent the mammalian mar- supial bone. In that man's pubis is a plainly distinct pelvic element, man agrees with all of his class except those which have an imperfectly developed innominate bone. In all Reptiles this bone appears (if the view above stated as to the ilio-pectineal eminence is correct) to be fused with the ischium. If this be so, then the obturator foramen has no existence in Reptilia except transitorily (as in the young Lizard) ; while that foramen which resembles and has been described as the obturator foramen in Reptiles really corresponds with the space between the brim of the pelvis and a line drawn from the marsupial bone, or else from the ilio-pectineal eminence, to the pubic symphysis. This false obturator foramen may be called the cordiform foramen. As has been already said, in some Insectivora and Bats the pubis does not meet its fellow of the opposite side in a ventral symphysis. In the Mole the pubis has so little extent that the pelvic viscera pass outside and in front of the pelvis. The pubes in Birds are very long, and bent post-axially. They never meet in a ventral symphysis except in the Ostrich. As the ischium in Mammals is the more constant and larger of the two ventral pelvic bones, it may be considered rather itself to have absorbed than to have been absorbed by the pubis, in those lower forms in which these two elements do not seem to be differentiated. The ischium of man is small compared with that of Mammals generally ; its proportional development is closely approached, however, in the slender Loris. The prominent development of the spine of the ischium is absolutely peculiar to man. The tuberosity of the ischium in the human species is very small and inconspicuous compared with its condition in most Mammals. Even in the very highest Apes it is much larger than in man, and in the Gibbons and other monkeys of the old world it is not only very large, but everted and flattened with a rough surface for the attachment of a thickened skin, or callosity. It is largely everted in Dogs and Ungulates. In all the Edentates, except the Cape Ant-eater, the ischium anchyloses with the vertebral column, and the same union occurs in some Bats. In the Cetacea the pelvis is represented by what is pro-