SKELETON OF LOWER LIMB. v] in man is the os cloaca. It is an azygos median structure which extends backwards behind the ischio-pubic symphysis, as e.g. in the Lizard Psammosaurus. Similarly a median azygos structure (pointed or forked) may be developed from the front of the ischio-pubic sym- physis, as in Menobranchus and Salamandra. The acetabulum of man is very well developed as compared with that of other animals. In its formation by the three pelvic bones it follows the universal mammalian rule. In that its cup is completely ossified it also resembles all Mammals except the lowest {i.e. the Monotremes), which agree with Birds in having the ace- tabula perforated. In Reptiles generally three separate ossifications also concur to form the acetabulum. In Crocodiles, however, the so-called pubis does not concur in its formation. 12. The supremacy in size of man's FEMUR over the other parts of his skeleton is not shared by the femur of most other Vertebrates, and this im- portant bone seems rarely, if ever, to have any representative whatever in the skeleton of Fishes. Nevertheless a single cartilage (as in Ceratodus) which articulates with the limb root may be the representative either of the thigh or leg bones. Confining Ourselves therefore, for Fig. 167.—Cartilaginous purposes of Comparison, tO Mammals, Skeleton of a Limb of Sauropsida,andBatrachians, we find Ceratodus. (After Gun- the femur under a certain aspect more The large „• p5ece articu constantly present than the humerus. lates with the limb root. For although it is often absent when the humerus is present (as in forms like Siren, which have pectoral limbs but no pelvic ones), yet it is sometimes present in a more or less rudimentary condition when no representa- tive of the foot coexists with it. Such is the case, e.g., in some Whales (as the Greenland Whale) amongst Mammals, and certain Snakes, e.g. Boa, and certain Lizards, e.g. Lialis, amongst the Reptiles. In absolute length the femur of man exceeds that of almost all other