87 III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. At birth the bone consists of two parts, which are separated at the symphysis, and at first the ascending ramus slants much backwards, but gradually rises till it is nearly vertical in the adult. 13. Another bone, often not reckoned as part of the skull, is the os hyoides (so named from its resemblance to the Greek letter v), which is placed beneath the root of the tongue.1 It consists of a " body " with a pair of processes on each side, one large (the great cornu) and one small (the lesser cornu, or corniculum). The body is transversely oblong, hollowed behind, convex in front, and narrow from before backwards. It is called the basi-hyal. The great cornua extend backwards from the lower outer angle of this " bodythey are rather long and nearly straight, and though at first distinct bones, become anchylosed to the basi-hyal. Each is also termed a thyro-hyal.2 The lesser cornua, or corniada, arise from the upper aspect of the " body " at its junction with the greater cornua, and each corniculum (or, as it is also called, cerato-hyal)3 is attached to this " body " by a synovial sac, though sometimes by bony union. Each corniculum is short and conical, and united by a ligament to the styloid process of the temporal bone. 14. Considering now the OUTSIDE OF THE SKULL as a whole, we find on its base in front the alveolar margin,— forming a graceful curve, and surrounding the bony palate (with its palatine foramina), which extends a little further back than the teeth, and ends in the posterior free margin of the palatine bones. Behind the palate are the posterior nares, on each outer side of which is a pterygoid fossa, bounded as before de- scribed. In the middle of the basis cranii is the basilar part of the occipital bone, behind it the foramen magnum, con- dyles, and condyloid foramina. On each side is the petrous part of the temporal bone, with its styloid and vaginal processes and its carotid and stylo- mastoid foramina. Between the front end of the petrous bone and the basi- occipital is, in the dry skull, an opening called the foramen lacerum anterius. Between the hinder part of the petrous bone and the lateral 1 For its more precise relations see Lesson XII. : the Larynx. 2 From its being placed close to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx. * Ktpag, a horn.