THE CRANIAL SKELETON, 77 III.] special bony sockets to which the name alveoli has been applied. When the skull is viewed in profile the sharp bony projec- tion of the nose is seen in front and the round prominence of the occiput behind, while from the malar prominence the zygoma extends backwards to above the mastoid process— enclosing a fossa (in which is placed a muscle called the " temporal") and having beneath its hinder end a noticeable aperture which is the external bony opening of the ear. A ridge also runs upwards from the malar prominence and forms the external margin of the bony orbit. The skull is said to be divided into certain regions. Thus we have the base or basilar region, and opposite to it the vertex, sinciput, or sincipital region ; we have the region of the forehead or frontal region, and opposite to it that of the back of the head or the occipital region. At the side of the head we have posteriorly and above, the parietal1- region ; beneath this and within the arch of the zygoma, the temporal region (to which is attached the tem- poral muscle before referred to), separated from the orbital region by the outer, hinder bony wall of the orbit. The skull is made up of different bones of very different sizes and shapes. When it is looked at from above, a trans- verse zigzag line of union is seen to run across behind the forehead. This is called the coronal suture.2 Running directly backward from this, for some distance along the middle line of the vertex, is another suture, termed sagittal, and it ends behind by joining a wide V-shaped suture with the apex upwards, which is called lambdoidal.3 Turning now to the lower jaw, this when attached to the skull is seen to fit, by a rounded head, into a shallow cavity placed on each side in front of the external auditory opening, and termed the glenoid4 surface. The number of bones forming the skull decreases, with age, by anchylosis. In its mature condition the skull of man consists of the following bones, which it will be well to notice separately :— 2. The OCCIPITAL bone is of course that of the occiput, and it surrounds the great occipital foramen (or foramen mag- num). Naturally (when the bones of the skull are separated 1 From paries, a wall. 2 Because it is somewhere near the part where a crown or garland would be placed. 3 From its being like the Greek letter A. 4 From y\fjvri, a socket.