THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 387 20. The two cords which have been spoken of as the optic tracts arise, one on each side, from the optic thalami, and run forwards obliquely across the under surface of the brain, to join together immediately in front of the infundi- bulum, whence they again diverge as the optic nerves. At the point of junction the two tracts partially exchange their fibres as follows :—The outer fibres of each tract con- tinue on to the optic nerve and eye of the same side. The inner fibres cross over to the optic nerve and eye of the opposite side. This decussation of fibres is called the optic commissure or c/iiasma. Beyond the chiasma each optic nerve passes through the corresponding optic foramen, in- vested in a sheath of the dura mater, and surrounded by the recti muscles. After piercing the outer coats of the eyebal!, it expands within that globe into what is called the retina. Posteriorly the optic nerves become connected with the corpora quadrigemina, or optic lobes, but this connexion does not exist at first. The structure of the EYE has been so amply described in the Ninth Lesson of the " Elementary Physiology" that here it is only necessary to notice its development and its more important relations with the conditions presented by the eye in Vertebrates generally. Fig. 340.-—Diagram representing the Development of the Eye in successive stages, from flg. i to flg. 3. u, outgrowth from fore-brain becoming cup-shaped, applied to the back of the vitreous humour and forming the retitia; i, the involution of the integument becoming posteriorly the lens (/) and anteriorly the aqueous humour ; v, the lateral ingrowth which intrudes between the lens and nervous outgrowth and becomes the vitreous humour ; op, the optic nerve; cc, the incipient skin-folds which become the eyelids ; they are connected by the conjunctiva. The eye is formed by the junction of an outgrowth from the brain with an ingrowth from the skin. The outgrowth is from the fore-brain, and is in the form of a hollow process containing a prolongation of the primitive ventricular cavity. This process becomes cup-shaped, and embraces the back of the part formed by the ingrowth of the skin. c c 2