ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 2l6 exceptional structure, the odontoid process of the axis verte- bra of man. 3. First, as to the question just suggested regarding man's cervical vertebrae. It is well known to anthropotomists that the ventral (anterior) root of the transverse process of the seventh cer- vical vertebra (if not also of vertebrae nearer the head) ossi- fies separately. At the same time the dorsal (posterior) root of the same transverse process plainly answers to the whole of the so-called transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, namely, to that part which articulates with the tubercle of the rib. As we have seen, this cervical trans- verse process may be, in the lowest Mammals and in Crocodiles, a distinct, more or less Y-shaped bone. Now, just such a condition of the proximal end of a rib is, as we have seen, well exemplified in many Batrachians (e.g. Menoftoma and Menobranchus), in which a dorsal (tubercular) and a ventral (capitular) transverse process articulate with a Y-shaped rib, one branch being applied to each process. Thus a Y-shaped bone attached to a cervical vertebra may be interpreted in two ways : (1) as a small rib which has united with it parts of both the " tubercular " and the " capitular" processes of the vertebra to which it is annexed ; or (2) as a rib with a " tubercle " so largely developed as to equal the "head and neck" in size. Plainly, then, the "perforated" transverse processes of man's cervical vertebrae consist, in part, of rudimentary ribs. Fig. 185.—Lateral View of Sixth Vertebra of Salamandra. This figure shows the rib bifurcating not only proximally to meet the super-imposed paraxial processes, t and c (diapophysis and parapophysis), but also distally. It was noted that the distal ends of the cervical transverse processes of man diverge as two small processes, termed Fig. 184.—Vertebrae of an Axolotl, showing the proximal bifurca- tion of the rib to meet the superimposed par- axial processes ; d, tu- bercular process ; p, capitular process; s, spinous process.