4o2 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. do not form a definite interlacement like the brachial plexus of man and the higher Vertebrates. 29. The NERVES OF THE LEG of man result from the inter- mixture, in what is called the lumbar and sacral plexuses, of the ventral branches of the four lowest lumbar nerves and of the four highest sacral nerves, five of these (the lowest lumbar and four sacral) contributing to form the sacral plexus. Issuing from the lumbar plexus is the crural nerve, which goes to the front of the thigh and to the pectineus and sartorius muscles ; while from the sacral plexus issues the largest nerve in man's body—the great sciatic, which divides into the anterior tibial, supplying the extensors of the foot, and the posterior tibial, supplying its flexors and thus ap- parently answering to both the median and ulnar nerves of the arm. The crural nerve passes out in front of the pelvis, but the sciatic passes out behind it, between the great trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium. Its flexor branch (the pos- terior tibial) passes on behind the knee-joint and under the internal malleolus, while its extensor branch runs between the gastrocnemius and biceps muscles round the head of the fibula, and descends in front of that bone. The lumbar plexus exists in almost all Vertebrates above Fishes, but it may be formed of only two nerves, as in Meno- poma and the Crocodile, and it may be more separated from the last nerve of the sacral plexus than in man, as is the case in Birds. The sacral plexus, similarly constant, may be formed by but three nerves, as in Menopoma, or but two, as in Proteus; or it may, on the contrary, as is the case in Birds, be formed by the concurrence of as many as six spinal nerves. As many as four or five of these issue from foramina of the sacrum pre- axial to those sacral vertebrae which are furnished with ex- panded transverse processes, or sacral ribs (see Less. 11, p. 56). In Lizards also the sacral plexus is mainly formed by nerves issuing from vertebrae pre-axial to those which articu- late with the iliac bones—two out of the three nerves which combine to form the sciatic nerve being thus conditioned. If therefore we take the nerves as our standard of comparison, the so-called sacrum of Lizards does not exactly answer to that of man and Mammals generally, but is relatively a somewhat more post-axial structure. A general agreement is again shown with regard to the nerves of the leg in all Vertebrates with developed hind