471 THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. XII.] angles, these again tertiary ones in a similar way, as in Birds (Fig. 393). Not only, however, may the bronchi be thus arranged (instead of dividing like the branches and twigs of a tree, as in man and Mammals), but they may open at the surface of the lungs into large air-sacs, as in Birds. In Reptiles (amongst the Chameleons and Geckos) the lung may be drawn out, towards its post-axial end, into narrow prolongations which penetrate between the viscera. In Birds, however, there may be nine well-defined air-sacs, or greatly enlarged prolongations of the membrane of the bronchi. Two of these take origin respectively from the end of each main bronchus, and are the posterior, or abdominal, air-sacs. Four others are the pair of anterior and the pair of posterior thoracic air-sacs. They lie in the thorax on the ventral surface of the lung, and spring from primary branches of the bronchi. The seventh and eighth air-sacs are the cervical ones, and lie outside the thorax ; the ninth air-sac—the i7iter- clavicular—is formed by the coalescence of what was at first a pair of sacs. Veiy generally some of these air-sacs are prolonged into or communicate with the air-cavities of the bones. This is es- pecially the case with the interclavicular, the cervical, and the abdominal air-sacs, but never with the thoracic ones. 6. The larynx of man has been already noticed in the Seventh Lesson of" Elementary Physiology," §§ 21-25. The Larynx is the expanded upper part of the trachea sus- tained by cartilages, more or less movable, of modified forms and special names, opening at the back of the floor of the mouth in front of the entrance to the oesophagus, and behind the tongue. The largest piece entering into the composition of the larynx is the thyroid cartilage? which produces that promi- nence in the middle of the front of the throat, popularly known as Adam's apple. It is formed of two plates, united along the middle line in front, at an acute angle, but widely open behind. The hinder margins of these two plates are vertical and prolonged into a process both above and below. Each of the two upper processes is connected by a ligament with the tip of the corresponding great cornu of the hyoid bone, the body of which bone lies over the front of the thyroid cartilage. The hyoid is connected with the thyroid by the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is situate at the root of the tongue, giving origin to the muscles forming that gustatory organ. 1 From #iyeo£, a shield, and eidog.