52 [less. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. serve to support the bony shell of those animals. In Prio- dorttes the metapophyses are enormous, and there are four articular surfaces on each side of each end of a lumbar vertebra. In addition to the complexity of articulation described as existing on the last dorsal vertebra of the Great Ant-eater, we find in this animal's lumbar region an additional articular surface on each side of each transverse process. A long hypapophysis may be developed, as in the Hare. Instead of being free, as in man, the lumbar vertebrae may be anchylosed together and with other parts, as in Birds, the Chelonians, and Glyptodon. c Fig. 66.—Pelvis of a Bird anchylosed to the Lumbar Vertebrae. </3, last free dorsal vertebra; c, coccygeal vertebrae; il, ilium. (For the other letters see Lesson V.) 26. Inasmuch as the first two vertebrae and no more are specially modified, man agrees with all birds and beasts, and differs from all below. The specialization may, however, be even greater than in him, as is the case with Chelonians, where each cervical has its own peculiarities. Thus in the common european Terrapin we find the fourth cervical with its centrum convex pre-axially, and concave post-axially ; the fifth is bi-convex ; the sixth is concave pre-axially, with a double post-axial convexity; the seventh has a double pre-axial concavity and a double convexity post-axially ; the eighth has a double concavity at each end ; the ninth has a double pre-axial convexity and a single one post-axially, and also curiously arched post-zygapophyses. The ATLAS of man, in having no true body, agrees with that of all Vertebrates above the Ichthyopsida. In the highest member of that group, the Frog, the first vertebra has the neural arch attached to a centrum just as the other vertebrae have, and at the same time the power of rotation on the second vertebra is lost. In having two articular surfaces for the skull, man's atlas differs from that of Birds and Reptiles, but agrees with that of Batrachians and some Fishes.