VIII.] THE MUSCLES. 339 Rectus abdominis. The greatest relative size of this muscle is exemplified in the class of Fishes, where it extends in the mid-abdomen from the tail to the pectoral arch, and thence, forwards, to the mandibular symphysis. A complica- tion of division may exist, as we find in the Salamander, where there is a superficial rectus lying, on each side, imme- diately upon a deeper one. Even in man's own class this muscle may be very much more developed than in him, as in the Slow Lemur, the Arma- dillo, and Ornithorhynchus, where it goes to the first rib. The linetz transverse? may be absent, as in the Hedgehog, the Dolphin, and the Hyrax ; or they maybe seven in number, as in the Racoon; or they may be replaced by regular abdominal ribs which subdivide the rectus into a longitudinal series of successive segments, as in the Chameleon. The pelvic origin of the muscle may be wanting, as in the Cetacea, where it arises (by a long and thin aponeurosis) between the dorsal and ventral muscles of the tail, from the ventral side of the transverse processes of some of the mid- coccygeal vertebrae. A slip from this muscle may be sent to the humerus, as in some Armadillos and insectivorous Bats. Pyramidalis. This may be more largely developed than in man, as in the Iguana and in Marsupials and Monotremes, where it arises from the marsupial bones. It becomes enor- mous in the Ornithorhynchus. The quadratics luntborum is a nearly constant muscle ; it may be distinctly developed in Reptiles, and is large in the Iguana. The development of the intercostal muscles is of course governed by the size and number of the ribs. Thus they may be more or less developed than in man, or they may be completely absent. 24. The diaphragm. In the possession of a complete partition, or diaphragm, man agrees with all the members of his own class, but differs from all those of every other class, though in some of the latter it may form an incomplete partition, at the least allowing the apex of the heart to pass into the abdominal cavity, as in the struthious Birds. In man's own class this muscle may vary as to the extent of the central tendon and as to the points of origin and insertion. Thus in the Manatee (which has so many ribs) the obliquity of the diaphragm is so extreme that the thorax extends back- wards above the whole length of the abdominal viscera. Very z 2