247 vii.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. Curiously modified thickenings of the epidermis, which take the form of rings, may surround the ends of the tail, as in the Rattlesnake. These being loosely attached, produce a singular sound, a sort of " hissing" rattle, when the tail is vibrated by the excited animal. Nail-like structures may also be developed from the side of the hand, as in certain Birds (e.g. Palameded), and in one of the lowest members of man's own class (the Duck-billed Platypus) a hollow horny spur grows upon each ankle. The epidermis of the outside of the muzzle and jaws may also be Converted into horn, as in the beak Fig. 215.— Ornithorhynchus, of Birds and in that of the Turtle. «R Duck-billed Platypus.1 As a remarkable exception, the same thing may take place in man's own class : this we see by the Duck-billed Platypus, which really has a horny beak very like that of a duck. 13. These being the principal modifications which investiga- tion shows us to be possible with regard to the epidermis and its appendages, yet other peculiarities may be present in parts belonging to the other ecteronic division, the EPITHELIUM. To begin with the mouth, its epithelial lining investing the gums becomes greatly thickened and hardened in persons who have lost their teeth, and who are so unfortunate, or so unwise, as to have failed to replace them by artificial ones. In certain beasts, as the Cow and the Sheep, the front part of the upper jaw is always devoid of teeth, and a horny epi- thelial pad is formed there against which the teeth of the front of the lower jaw bite. A much more developed structure, though essentially simi- lar, is met with in the Dugong—a creature superficially like a Porpoise, but really very different. In this creature the front of each jaw is furnished with a dense horny plate, formed (like the horn of the Rhinoceros) of a deposit of horny matter around long processes of the deeper skin layer—the dermis. Horny substances in the place of teeth are also developed inside the mouth of the Duck-billed Platypus, and there are horny teeth in the mouth of the Lamprey. The maximum of development of this kind of structure is, however, found in the Whalebone Whales. The upper jaw in these creatures is furnished with very nu- merous horny plates (termed baleeti), which hang down from the palate along each side of the mouth. They thus form