nr.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 97 here it may be stated that the division of it adopted in human anatomy, into cranium and face, is one which is natural. By the former we shall understand the brain-case proper, and no more. By the face we shall understand not only the bones usually included in-that category in anthropotomy, but the ethmoid and parts of the sphenoid also, namely the internal pterygoid processes, which, as we have seen, arise in man about the second visceral arch. The number of bones of which the skull is composed in man when adult is much less than in many animals ; on the other hand, it is more than in many, where, as in the class of Birds, the process of anchylosis is more rapid and extensive. Certain small bones of the ear, called auditory ossicles, are, in works on human anatomy, included in the description of the internal ear. For this reason the full notice of these ossicles will here also be similarly deferred ; though from the important part they are said to play in many lower, and all the lowest forms, and their relations to hyoidean structures, they must be somewhat noticed even in describing the true skeleton considered as the framework of the body. 19. The OCCIPITAL bone of man represents some of the most constant ossifications of the solid cranium. The con- dition of union its parts present in him is the one normal in his class, though the union of its elements is often longer delayed in some Mammals than in him. On the other hand, the occipital bone (or parts of it) may anchylose with more than it anchyloses with in man, as is the case in the Sauropsida, where, except in the Chelonians, two portions of the petrous bone (the epiotic and opisthotic) become intimately united with parts of the occipital. In the lower forms (or Ichthyopsida), where the skull is ossified, either the main parts of the human occipital are represented by distinct bones, or only a portion of them are I so represented. The basilar process (basi-occipital) is a constant ossification in all except Batrachians and some Fishes, and when present in the latter (as the Cod, Perch, Pike, &c), remains a distinct bone throughout life. It may, however, as in Batrachians 1 and in the Lepidosiren, be represented merely by cartilage ; and this in spite of other portions of the occipital being I ossified. The basi-occipital may give origin to a median I descending process like a hypapophysis, and may indeed (as I in the Carp) send one down so far as to penetrate the wall I of the alimentary canal and serve in mastication.