359 THE MUSCLES. The abductor digiti minimi may be absent, as in many forms, e.g. the Horse; or it may be very large and aided, as in Lemur, by another muscle (which is generally absent in man) called abductor ossis metatarsi quinti, and which, arising from the calcaneum, is inserted into the fifth metatarsal. Flexor accessories (Fig. 319). This may be altogether wanting, not only in such forms as the Horse, but even in members of man's order, e.g. Lemur. It may be inserted by muscular fibre into the perforating flexor tendons, or it may furnish most of the long flexor tendons, as in Hapale. It is a more constant muscle than might be expected, as it is to be found in the Iguana. It may be enormous, with three fleshy bellies, as in the Three-toed Sloth. Lumbricales (Fig. 317). These muscles may be quite absent, as in the Hedgehog, Seal, and Three-toed Sloth, and in Birds. They may be represented by tendons only, as in the Horse. They may be only two in number, as in the Agouti and Hyrax ; or they may be as many as six or seven in number, as in Bats. They are more constant structures than might have been expected, as they are found in Reptiles, e.g. in the Iguana and Chameleon, and in the Frog, though they do not seem to be developed in Tailed-Batrachians. Flexor brevis pollicis pedis. As need hardly be said, this muscle may be entirely absent. It may, however, reappear when wanted, low down in the scale, e.g. in Chamceleo Parsonii and the Frog. The adductor pollicis pedis may perhaps be represented in the Frog by a large muscle taking origin between the elongated tarsal bones ; but it is inserted into the naviculare and accessory tarsal ossicle. Transversuspedis. This may be larger relatively than in man, as in the Apes. It may be blended with the muscle last noticed, as in Lemur, and it may, as in many forms (e.g. the Horse) be absent altogether. Muscular fibres may be inserted into the metatarsal of the hallux, thus forming an opponens hallucis, as in the Orang ; and a similar structure may be still further developed in a singularly low form, i.e. the Frog, where an opponens muscle is supplied to each of the four inner digits, and this in addition to transversi muscles, which extend between the first and second, second and third, and third and fifth digits respectively. A flexor brevis digiti minimi pedis may be present, as in Apes, or it may be absent, as in many forms. It exists in the Iguana (Fig. 317) and Chameleon. In addition to this