392 EL E ME NT A R Y ANA TO MY. [less. distribution of its branches in man, with its condition in the lowest and in embryonic forms, it appears that the ophthal- mic nerve is the one which skirts, by its branches, externally the trabecula cranii of its own side, and internally the palato-quadrate arch; and similarly that the upper and lower maxillary branches may be considered as two branches of one whole, which divides to skirt the palato-quadrate arch inferiorly (or posteriorly) with one branch, and the mandi- bular arch superiorly (or anteriorly) with the other. 23. The next nerve, as ordinarily described in human anatomy, is a part of the seventh, which is said to be divided into a portio mollis and a portio dura. In this book the latter nerve (the portio dura) will be spoken of exclusively as the seventh nerve, and the portio mollis, or AUDITORY NERVE, may now be considered. This portio mollis is not, like the so-called optic and the olfactory nerves, a cerebral outgrowth, but still it is a peculiar nervous formation applied exclusively to minister to a special sense, namely that of hearing. The ear of man has been described with great care in the " Elementary Physiology," Lesson VIII. §§ 15—30, so that here it will be only necessary to notice the development of the parts of the human auditory organ. The ear, like the eye, is formed by an involution of the skin, but this is not supplemented by an outgrowth of the Fig. 345.—Diagram to illustrate the Development of the Ear in successive stages from flg. i to flg. 4. i, involution of integument forming a sac which afterwards becomes the mem- branous labyrinth ; c, inferior process of the sac (z) which detaches itself and becomes the cochlea ; /, upper part of sac which forms the semicircular canals ; n, auditory nerve ; fl, fenestra ovalis-,y2, fenestra rotunda; si, stapes, or columella auris; 3 and 4, summits of third and fourth (or mandibular and hyoidean) arches, against the upper part of which the stapes abuts, being an outgrowth from the region of the fenestra ovalis. brain, so that it is only the outer part of the eye which is parallel in development to the ear. The outer margin of the involution contracts, and so forms a closed sac placed beside the hind-brain, and above the end of that visceral cleft which separates the mandibular and hyoidean arches.