ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. 474 The cartilages of Santorini may be confluent in the middle line, as in the Hedgehog and Pteroftus. The cuneiform cartilages (of Wrisberg) may be more de- veloped than in man, as in the Bear and Dog. An extra, interarticular, cartilage may be developed be- tween the bases of the arytenoids and the cricoid, as in the Hedgehog. Vocal cords may be wanting, as in the Porpoise, or the upper cords alone may be obsolete, as in the Sloths and Armadillos. A median air-sac may be developed between the cricoid cartilage and the first ring of the trachea, as in Ateles. The ventricles of the larynx may be greatly dilated and prolonged upwards so as to come into contact above, and at the same time there may be a pair of extra sacculi opening between the arytenoid cartilages and the glottis, while with these may coexist a median sac, filling an enormously ex- panded os hyoides. Such is the case in the Howling Monkeys (Mycetes). A median air-sac may be developed from the thyro-hyoid membrane beneath the epiglottis, extending over the neck and to the armpits, as in some Semnopitheci and Cyno- cephali. There may be, as in the Siamang Gibbon, a globular air- sac communicating with the larynx by two apertures in the thyro-hyoid membrane. The ventricles of the larynx may be distended into enormous air-sacs, stretching over the chest, reaching to the armpits, and sometimes opening one into the other in the middle line of the body, as in the adult Gorilla, Chimpanzee, and Orang. When we descend below man's class we see that the larynx may be much more, or but little more, imperfect in structure than it is in any Mammal. Thus, in Birds we find thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid structures, bony or cartilaginous. There may also be in some cases, as e.g. in the Swan, an epiglottis, but this is very rare. More often an epiglottis-like process of the thyroid may be developed. The cricoid may be represented by three pieces. Vocal cords are always wanting. The thyroid has often transversely extended fissures, or defects of solidification or ossification, probably related to the formation of this structure by the coalescence of primitively distinct rings or arcs. Passing below Birds we find that both the thyroid and