THE MUSCLES. 309 VIII.] Palpebral muscles may be wanting, as in Serpents, and the orbicularis palpebrarum may be atrophied, as in Whales, or replaced by a complete sphincter, as in Tetraodon. The muscles of the nasal region, so important for expres- sion, do not in most animals attain the distinctness they do in man. Yet they may be distinct where little expression is to be detected, e.g. in the Great Ant-eater. They may all abort, as in the Crocodile, or they may receive certain addi- tions, as in the Pig, where two muscles arise, one on each side, from the zygoma and maxillary bone, and unite together above the end of the snout, which they elevate ; while two other muscles (which depress the snout) take origin, one on each side, from the zygoma, and are inserted into the median septum. In the Mole there are even four on each side, all arising above the ear and passing forwards between the tem- poral and masseter muscles, to be inserted into the extremity of the muzzle. The most exceptional modification of the nasal and labial muscles is, however, found to exist in the Elephant, where they form its remarkable trunk. For this purpose two muscles (elevators) take origin, one on each side, from pro- cesses above the nasals. Another pair (depressors) spring from the pre-maxillae, while a third pair (lateral, longitudinal muscles) take their origin from the frontal and maxillary bone on each side. Besides these there are intrinsic muscles of the proboscis, the fibres of which radiate from the nasal pas- sages to the inner surface of the skin, and tend to keep the former open. Another peculiar condition is that existing in Cetacea, which will be noticed in treating of the nose as a sense organ. Here, however, it may be mentioned that in the Porpoise a muscular layer spreads forwards from the frontal bone over the posterior nasal structures, and another layer spreads back- wards from the maxillary bone over the anterior nasal struc- tures. It is by the contraction of these muscles that the nasal passage is opened while the nasal sacs are compressed and their contents ejected. The masseter may attain a relative size and complexity which are very much greater (especially when compared with the simultaneous condition of the temporal) than in man. This great development is well seen in certain Rodents, e.g. Lagostomus and the Agouti, where the masseter is divided into three portions, and traverses the singularly enlarged infra-orbital foramen spoken of in describing the skeleton.