III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. The internal pterygoid processes of man represent very im- portant and constant parts of the cranium, which exist in all classes down to and including bony Fishes. The share which they take in man in bordering and bound- ing the posterior nares is by no means their normal office in Vertebrates generally. In Birds and in all lower Vertebrates (except the Crocodiles) they have no connexion with these apertures, but are quite posterior to them, serving to connect the hinder part of the palatine with the point of suspension ot the lower jaw, and, except in Fishes, have also a connexion with the sphenoidal region of the basis cranii. Sometimes, as in Serpents, these bones may be very- movable. In certain forms, i.e. in the Crocodiles, Ant-eaters (see Fig, 117), and in the Echidna, these bones may develop horizontal plates, which form the posterior part of the bony palate. So that, in these animals, the posterior nares are bounded by the pterygoids, both laterally and inferiorly. The pterygoid may be swollen and bullate, as in the Mole and in some Sloths. The internal (but not the external) pterygoid processes really belong, not to the cranial bones proper, but to those of the face. In Lizards, a peculiar dismemberment of the pterygoid, Fig. 105.—Diagrammatic Vertical, Transverse Section of the Skull of a Lizard, showing the columella ascending from the pterygoid bones to the parietals. />, parietal ; pt, pterygoid bone ; pf, columella, or dismemberment of pterygoid ; s, basi-sphenoid, diverg- ing processes of which join the two pterygoids. Fig. 106. —Diagrammatic Vertical, Transverse Section of the Skull of a Chelonian, showing the meeting on each side of upward processes of the pterygoids with downward processes of the parietals. p>, parietal ; pi, pterygoid ; s, basi- sphenoid. called the columella, may ascend and join the parietal. In Chelonians a corresponding process of the pterygoid may ascend and meet a corresponding downwardly directed pro- cess of the parietal. 24. The ethmoid is another complex aggregation of ele- ments which are distinct in lower animals. In man's class,