THE MUSCLES. VIII.] 297 The extensor carpi ulnaris springs from the external con- dyle and from the ulna, and ends in a tendon going to the fifth metacarpal. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. This great stretcher of the thumb arises from both the ulna and radius (on their hinder aspect), and is inserted by a long tendon into the first metacarpal. The extensor primi internodii pollicis is a small muscle which springs from the membrane between the radius and the ulna, and is inserted into the proximal phalanx of the thumb, as the extensor secundi internodii (springing from the back of the ulna) is inserted into its distal phalanx. The extensor indicis is a narrow muscle which takes origin from the middle of the ulna behind, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the second and third phalanges of the index. Supinator brevis. A deep muscle thus named comes from the outer condyle and upper part of the ulna, and is inserted into the radius wrapping it round somewhat from behind. 9. The muscles of the hand are numerous, but small. The thumb (which has no perforated flexor) is provided with a flexor brevis going from the carpus to the proximal pha- lanx ; also an abductor from the trapezium to the proximal phalanx, and an adductor (placed in the fold of skin between the thumb and index digit), going to the same phalanx from the middle metacarpal. Besides these there is an opponens, which goes from the trapezium to the outer border of the first metacarpal. The little finger has also an opponens, going from the unciforme to the fifth metacarpal ; an abductor, from the pisi- forme to the proximal phalanx; and a flexor brevis, from the unciforme to the same phalanx. Small muscles called interossei arise from the sides of the metacarpals and go to the sides of the proximal phalanges. When the back of the hand (the other muscles being dissected off) is looked at, four (dorsal) interossei are seen; one going to each side of the middle digit, one to the radial side of the index, and one to the ulnar side of the ring digit. When the palm of the hand is looked at, three (palmar) interossei are seen : one going to the ulnar side of the index digit, and two to the radial side of the fourth and fifth digits respectively. 10. The abdominal region of the body is invested by three great sheets of muscle and membrane. The first of these, the external oblique (Fig. 268, 6), springs from outside