53 ELEMENTA RY ANA TO MY. [less. others, and sometimes unite into a strong crest even in Pri- mates, but especially in the Rhinoceros, some Ruminants, and Insectivora, e.g. Sorex and Myogale. The lower end of the sacrum in man is devoid of processes, but in most forms there is a pair of strongly marked ones, which are most probably tubercular processes with annexed connate or developed ribs. Metapophyses and anapophyses are hardly to be detected on the sacrum of man; but they are distinctly visible in many Mammals, even Monkeys. The occasional open condition of the neural canal in man is very exceptional, being repeated only in the highest Apes. That the sacrum has a flat articular surface at one end for the last lumbar vertebra, and at the other for the coccyx, is the normal condition, but the vertebrae composing it may, as in Batrachians (e.g. Menopoma and Cryptobranchus), be con- vex in front and concave behind. It may, however, present a condition such that its two component vertebrae have the conjoined surfaces of their centra flat, and the other surfaces respectively concave, as in Crocodiles. 30. No better example of the inadequacy of the exclusive study of man for a full comprehension of his frame can pro- bably be given than the human os coccygis. The anthropotomist, though he would readily perceive that it was the rudimentary representative of a tail, would yet never suspect to what diverse and curious structures it corresponds. Indeed, the COCCYGEAL region of the vertebral column, instead of only varying as to the size and number of its parts, is the subject of very peculiar modifications of structure, and of unexpected modes of ossification and development. It may act as an extra hand ; it may be the main or exclu- sive locomotive organ; it may, together with the neck, contain the only free vertebrae of the body ; or it may be still more reduced and rudimentary than in man. It may in part consist of a solid bone formed by the fusion of primitively separate vertebrae, or it may be distinguished from the rest of the vertebral column as the only portion never made up of separate vertebrae at any time of life. The three, four, or five coccygeal vertebrae of man may be represented by as many as forty-six in his own class—namely, in the long-tailed Pangolin or Manis ; and in his own order it may reach the number thirty-three, as in the pre-eminently arboreal Spider Monkeys, which have the tail prehensile, serving as an additional hand. It may, on the contrary, in