4*4 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. The ulnar gives off the interosseous artery from the inter- space between the radius and ulna, and then passes along the inner side of the fore-arm to the hand, while the radial traverses the front of the fore-arm obliquely to the outer border of the wrist. These two arteries anastomose by a pair of palmar arches (one deeper than the other) which pass transversely between the ulnar and radial arteries. Of course, a variety of less important branches are given off at intervals, from the axillary artery and its subdivisions, along the whole extent from the axilla to the palm. The great descending aorta gives off many small branches to the air-tubes, the oesophagus, and the spaces between the ribs, the last being called intercostals. After passing through the diaphragm, the aorta gives off several important branches to the viscera in the abdomen. Such are (i) the coeliac axis, which divides into a branch to the stomach, one to the spleen, and one to the liver—called hepatic; (2), the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, which pass to the intestines by means of those folds of membrane (mesenteries), in which, as we shall see, the alimentary canal is slung ; (3), the renal arteries, short and large, which pass, one on each side, to the two kidneys respectively ; (4), the Iwnbar arteries, which repeat in the abdomen the intercostals of the thorax ; and lastly, the ?niddle sacral, which is a small median vessel running in front of the middle of the sacrum to the coccyx. The common iliac arteries into which, as has been said, the abdominal aorta divides, after a short course themselves subdivide, each into an internal and external iliac artery. The internal iliac is short, and distributes branches to the viscera and muscles of the pelvis, and also to muscles of the back. One small branch, called the superior vesical, passes to the side of the bladder, a fibrous cord connecting it with the back of the umbilicus or navel. The external iliac passes out into the thigh, over the brim of the pelvis, and takes the name of femoral. It descends the middle of the thigh, between the vastus internus and adductor muscles, then dips into the popliteal space, beneath the gastrocnemius, and divides there into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The posterior tibial passes down, as its name implies {i.e. behind the leg), and goes to the sole between the internal malleolus and the os calcis. It gives off, almost at its origin, a long branch, called the perofieal artery, which runs down behind the outer side of the leg.