[less. RLE MEN TA R Y ANA TO MY. 272 We see by this, that there may be teeth with no vertical pre- decessors in front of others which have such predecessors. Milk-teeth may be entirely absent in some Mammals, as is the case in the Porpoises and Dolphins and most Edentates. The canine teeth, as in the highest Apes, may appear after the true molars are in place. Generally the last deciduous molar resembles, not its vertical successor, but the first true molar, as has been stated with regard to man. A mode of succession may exist in man's class which renders it difficult to define the essential nature of the anterior molars. Such is the case in the Elephant, where six teeth are successively developed, the hindmost ones being much more complex than the anterior ones. Each rotates into its position in such a way that one portion of it is worn before the last part is in place, and ultimately the whole of the jaw is occupied by a single tooth. The Elephant has, however, undoubtedly two upper deciduous incisors on each side, and three molars ought in all probability to be reckoned as deciduous ones on each side of each jaw. Below Mammals we may find quite other conditions of replacement and succession ; but though of course there is never a "milk" set, yet even in some Fishes there is a vertical succession like that occurring in Mammals. This, for example, is the case in the teeth of the front of the mouth of the Fish Sargus—which teeth, moreover, bear a singular resemblance to the incisors of man. In the Crocodiles, as the teeth wear out or become lost, they are replaced by others, formed on the inner side of those which they are destined to succeed. Each new tooth causes, by its development, an absorption of the inner wall of an old tooth, and, entering at this aperture, it becomes enclosed within the central cavity of the latter, so that when the old tooth is removed the new one is found rising up in its place. This process appears to go on indefinitely through the whole of life in these creatures. A far more abundant supply of new teeth and ready re- placement of old ones are found in the Sharks. Whole rows of teeth, getting ready for use, lie folded back one behind the other all round the jaws. As the old teeth are lost, those immediately behind go forward, become erect, and take the vacant places. The most singular succession of all is found in the Parrot Fishes {Scams). Parrot Fishes browse upon those truly sensitive plants the arborescent polyps, and their jaws are