92 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. very obtuse angle, while with the cribriform plate it forms an obtuse one, open downwards and forwards. The extreme length of the cranial cavity is always more than 2\ times that of the basi-cranial axis, while it may be nearly 2| times the length of the latter. The half of the lower jaw forms an arc joining the skull above directly at the glenoid surface. The half of the hyoid bone forms a much smaller arc behind the former, and joined to the skull indirectly, namely by the ligament which suspends it by the corniculum from the styloid process. When the skull is divided vertically through the external auditory meati, i.e. transversely, or in the direction of the coronal suture, we see that the basilar part of the occipital forms as it were a centre. The anterior part of the section shows the great cranial arch rising above this centre and closed in front, while below it is the arch of the lower jaw, and further forward the arch of the upper jaw, enclosing the double tube of the nostrils which extends from the anterior to the posterior nares. The posterior part of the section shows us the hinder part of the great cranial arch rising above the centre and closed behind, while below it is the arch of the hyoid and its liga- ments, reaching up to the styloid processes. 16. As to the cavities OF the skull : the orbits in man are pyramidal cavities completely encircled by bone, and each so separated off* from the temporal fossa behind it, by the malar and alisphenoid, that the elongated spheno- maxillary fissure is the only opening left. At the back are the optic and round foramina, and between them the sphenoidal fissure, the vidian foramen being hidden from view. Within the anterior margin on the inner wall of each orbit is the lachrymal foramen. The two orbits are separated from each other in part by the cranial cavity (above the cribriform plate), and in part by the nasal cavity (below the cribriform plate). The nasal fossa?, extending backwards above the palate from the anterior to the posterior nares, and enclosed be- tween the maxillae, are separated from each other by the median, ethmoid, and vomer, and in front of these by carti- lage. The three turbinals project inwards from the outer wall of each fossa, and beneath the lowest the inferior ter- mination of the lachrymal canal opens.