481 XII.] THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. the Fifth Lesson of " Elementary Physiology," § 6. Here it may be added that the true kidneys are not the primitive urinary organs, but that the first-formed structures of this kind are what are called the Woolffian bodies—or primordial kidneys. These Woolffian bodies are formed one on each side of the line of attachment of the alimentary canal to the spine. They appear very early, each as a series of trans- versely extended tubuli, and on the outer side of each is a duct which extends post-axially and enters that primitive chamber at the hind end of the body (the cloaca) into which the termination of the alimentary canal also opens. The kidneys arise behind the Woolffian bodies, and inde- pendently of them; and the ducts which pass from the kidneys (the ureters) also terminate, independently of the termination of the Woolffian ducts, in the same primitive chamber common to the alimentary and urinary systems. The Woolffian bodies are gradually absorbed, and disap- pear as the kidneys become developed. The latter organs are at first smooth and oval, but soon become divided, each into about fifteen lobes. These subsequently coalesce, but even at birth the kidney shows signs on its surface of its previous lobulated condition. 10. In that man possesses distinct urinary or RENAL ORGANS, he agrees with all Vertebrates, with the single exception of the Lancelet, in which such parts have not been yet certainly determined. In that Woolffian bodies are formed, man agrees with all other Vertebrates with the exception just referred to. In that Woolffian bodies are subsequently replaced by true kidneys, man agrees with all Mammals and all Sauropsi- dans ; but it may be that Woolffian bodies persist, and by themselves alone constitute the renal organs through the whole of life, in Ichthyopsidans. The renal organ may exist as a very elongated body made up of a series of bodies analogous to Malpighian corpuscles,1 connected at short intervals, as in the Myxinoids. The urinary gland may extend on each side from the head to the opposite end of the abdominal cavity, as in the Stur- geon, and the ureters may join together before their termi- nation, as in the same last-mentioned animal. The two urinary glands may blend together behind the pharynx, as in many osseous Fishes ; or at their posterior 1 For a description of these corpuscles see the Fifth Lesson of "Elementary Physiology," § 9, Fig. 27. I I