THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. IX.] In the existence and main characters of his sympathetic system man agrees with the members of the Vertebrate sub- kingdom generally ; nevertheless, the sympathetic may be absent, as is alleged to be the case in the Marsipobranchs, and its place may be supplied (as in the Myxine) by an ex- tension of the pneumogastric. 31. The contraction of muscular fibre in man is said to be accompanied by more or less electrical disturbance. This leads us to observe that certain organs may exist for storing up electricity so as by its discharge to administer severe shocks to creatures in the vicinity of animals possessing and making use of such structures. These electric ORGANS are met with only in the class of Fishes, and are constructed of membranous chambers enclosing cellular plates, while special nerves end- ing in minute ramifications are distributed upon one and the same side of each of the plates. The arrangement of these plates may vary, as also the position of the organs and the source of their nervous supply. Thus, in the Torpedo there are two such organs, one on each side, near the head; while in the Electric Eel there are four, two on each side of the trunk and tail. In the Torpedo the nervous supply comes from the medulla oblongata, while in the Electric Eel it is furnished through the ventral branches of the spinal nerves. In the Torpedo the cellular plates are placed horizontally, in the Electric Eel vertically. 32. The most generalized Conception at present at- tainable of the nervous system of Vertebrates, and therefore of man, may perhaps be expressed as follows :— There is a cylindrical cerebro-spinal axis with a median cavity ending anteriorly at a lamina terminalis, from each side of which lamina a secondary prolongation is developed. Be- sides nerves of special sense and of parts surrounding such special sense organs, the axis gives off a series of bifurcating branches which skirt each side the cranial arches (splanchna- pophyses), from the trabecula to the last branchial inclusive. Behind these bifurcating branches, there is given off a series of spinal nerves, and each of these nerves splits into three branches : (1), dorsal; (2), abdominal; (3), sympathetic. Certain of the abdominal branches unite to supply limb nerves when limbs are developed. The abdominal sympa- thetic branches, constantly united by commissural filaments, pass down from the spine along the mesentery, and are dis- tributed to the viscera.