ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. I I 2 however, it remains, for the most part, pretty much as it is in him. The os planum, in that it is large and conspicuous and situated on the inner wall of the orbit, presents conditions which man shares with the Apes, but which are very rare in other forms. In some Cats, however, it appears in the orbital between the lachrymal, frontal, and palatine bones. The part corresponding to the os planum of man exists within, and hidden by, the maxillary plate in other mammals ; but it may be represented by a cartilage or cartilages, as in birds. The lateral masses of the ethmoid appear in the form of distinct bones (pre-frontals) in Crocodiles, Lizards, and osseous Fishes. They may, as in the Chameleon, extend on to the maxilla, so shutting out the nasals from the anterior nares ; and in some Chameleons they may be prolonged so as to help to form two great bony horns projecting forwards from the muzzle. The median ethmoid is constantly present in a cartilaginous or osseous condition as part of the internasal septum. Even in fishes it is generally more or less ossified. It is possible that it may appear on the external surface of the skull in Mammals, as in the Seal Monachus. It does so in Fishes {e.g. Carp and Tench), and at least in some Birds. A peculiar condition of the parts may exist, such as is found in the Frog, where the ethmoid forms (or is part of) a bone which has been likened to a dice-box with a vertical parti- tion at one end, and has been named by Cuvier os en ceinture, or girdle-bone. It consists probably of the lesser wings of the sphenoid united to the median and parts of the lateral ethmoid. The ethmoidal cells of the lateral ethmoid may attain a much greater size and complexity than in man, as we see in the Dog and very many Mammals. On the other hand, these parts may utterly and entirely abort, as in the Porpoises. A cribriform plate is common to, and generally large in man's class ; it may be wanting, as in the Porpoise, or enor- mous, as in the Echidna. The crista galli is more defined in man than generally in Mammals, but it may be very large, as in some Seals and Ungulates. In certain Seals again, as in Cystophora, and in the Tapir, the median ethmoid may extend forwards beyond the anterior end of the nasals.