14o [less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. The floor of these fossae may, instead of forming with the basi-cranial axis an angle opening downwards (as in man, the Hare, and Sheep), be parallel with it (as in the Dog), or form an obtuse angle opening upwards, as in the Elephant, or even a slightly acute angle, as in the Dolphins. The nares are exceptionally high in proportion to their length in man. Their length may be enormous, as in the Great Ant-eater and Crocodile, where pterygoid plates follow behind the palatine bones and so prolong the bony palate. The nares, on the contrary, are in most Vertebrates much shorter than in Mammals ; for there are no palatal plates to prolong the fossae backwards, and their posterior border is formed by the palate bones. Thus the posterior nares in such animals {e.g. Birds, Lizards, Frogs) answer rather to the middle portion of the human nasal fossae. The bones which form the anterior and posterior boun- daries of the nasal passage have been already described, as also the asymmetrical form of the anterior nares in the Cetacea. The median division of the fossae, or septum narium, need not be partly osseous and partly cartilaginous, as it is in man. It may be quite unossified, as in Chelonians and Serpents, or it may be ossified to the ends of the nasals, as in certain extinct species of Rhinoceros and in some Dolphins and Seals {e.g. the species Leonina), and in one species of Tapir, where ossification advances even in front of the nasals. The septum may be ossified continuously with the lesser wings of the sphenoid, as in the Frog, where it forms the middle part of the os en ceinture. As to the frontal, sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses, it is a general character of air-breathing Vertebrates to have some or other part of the cranial bones furnished with cavities containing air. In this respect, therefore, man is no excep- tion to the rule, and indeed he occupies an intermediate position, as cranial air-cells may be more restricted or much more developed than they are in him, and this not only as regards the relative size of the air-cavities, but also as regards the number of cranial bones so inflated. The frontal sinuses (which are not constant in man, being absent at least in some Australian skulls) may be much less or more developed than in him in members of his own order, e.g. in different Apes. In hollow-horned Ruminants they may extend into the substance of the horns, or backwards into the parietals and supra-occipital. The latter condition exists in