ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. 476 as is the case in the Lancelet. This, however, is a solitary- exception. In all other cases the water is mechanically propelled by muscular contractions, and so made to pass over delicate filaments or sheets (lamellae) of membrane attached to a greater or less number of the visceral arches. We may have (as in Myxine and in Bdellostomd) the gills in the form of a folded lining to six or seven pouches placed in a linear series on each side of the body, each pouch com- municating with the interior of the oesophagus by an aperture, and thence receiving water. Each sac may open on the surface of the body by a separate aperture (as in Bdellostoma and in the Lamprey), or each sac may open into a tube running along each side of the body external to the sacs, and terminating by an aperture placed far back on the ventral surface of the body (as in Myxine). In the latter case the water coming from the sacs passes out at one aperture on each side of the body. The sacs may open internally, not into the oesophagus but into a median canal placed ventrally to the oesophagus (as in the Lamprey). This canal ends blindly at its post-axial end, but pre-axially opens into the mouth by a valvular aperture. These gill-sacs are not supported by solid visceral (branchial) arches internally, but may be, as in the Lamprey, protected externally by a cartilaginous framework or basket, Fig. 401.—Skeleton of Head and Gills of Lamprey. hinder part of the external (paraxial) cartilaginous skeleton of the gills ; an, auditory capsule ; k, hyoid ; n, neural arches ; p, palato-quadrate arch. which, as we saw in Lesson VI., is a paraxial, skeletal structure. The several gill-sacs are separated from each other by partitions which are not solid, cartilaginous structures. The gills may be supported internally by solid (osseous or cartilaginous) " branchial arches," which, as we have seen in treating of the skeleton, are those visceral arches which suc- ceed the hyoidean and mandibular arches post-axially.