X.] THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. 4i3 stylo-mastoid foramen) to the tympanum. The external carotid then continues on, assuming the name of internal maxillary, and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. It gives off a number of branches, and amongst them a small one called the tympanic artery, which ascends through the fissura Glasseri to the tympanum, and there unites (or, as it is termed, anastomoses) with the posterior auricular ; also the vidian, which passes back through the root of the pterygoid, and some branches to muscles. It then ends by dividing into the descending palatine and the nasal arteries. Of these two, the former descends the posterior palatine canal along with the palatine nerve, runs along the palate and enters the anterior palatine foramen where it anastomoses with the nasal artery. The nasal artery enters the nose through the spheno- palatine foramen (in company with the nasal nerve), sends twigs to the ethmoid, and, skirting the nasal septum, descends the anterior palatine canal to anastomose with the descending palatine as just mentioned. The internal carotid transverses the petrous part of the temporal bone (as already noticed in the Lesson on the Skull), and, ascending beside the basi-sphenoid, anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side at the pituitary fossa. While ascending the carotid canal of the petrous bone it gives off a small branch which anastomoses with the tympanic, vidian, and posterior auricular arteries. It terminates as the oph- thalmic artery, which, entering the orbit by the optic foramen, skirts the inner wall of the orbit and distributes small branches in various directions. The artery of each pectoral limb is termed the subclavian, and springs on the left direct from the aortic arch, but on the right from the innominate artery. Each subclavian gives off an artery termed vertebral, which ascends through the perforations of the cervical trans- verse processes, and, entering the skull through the foramen magnum, unites with its fellow to form the basilar artery, which latter runs along the upper surface of the basi-occipital, gives off branches to the brain, divides, and anastomoses on each side with the internal carotid. The subclavian gives off certain other branches, and then passes out of the trunk at the arm-pit as the axillary artery. It descends the arm on its inner side, between the biceps and the triceps muscles, and is then called brachial. At the elbow it sinks between the pronator teres and supinator longus, and bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries.