THE SPINAL SKELETON. 25 other than those observed in the human body. Thus some spiny bones of Siluroid fishes have a perforation at their base, through which passes a bony ring attached to a plate below—a shackle-joint. This structure, however, belongs to the external skeleton. 5. The parts of the endoskeleton may obviously be grouped into two divisions :— (a) The skeleton of the head and trunk, which is called the axial1 skeleton. • (b) The skeleton of the limbs, which is called the appendicular skeleton, the limbs being regarded as appendages of the axial skeleton. First with regard to the axial skele- ton. The skeleton of the head {i.e. the skull) is supported on the very summit of what is familiarly known as the back- bone, while from each side of one region of the latter the ribs reach forwards to or towards the breastbone. The skull is of so complex a struc- ture as to require separate consideration. The skeleton of the trunk only (that is to say, the backbone with the ribs and breastbone) will afford material . enough for this lesson. 6. The backbone, or, as it is often called, the spine,2 consists of a number of small bones placed one on the top of the other like a pile of coins. Each of these small bones is termed a vertebra,3 and (with certain few excep- tions, to be noticed later) consists of a sort of irregular ring of bone, thickest in front, from which certain bony promi- nences stand out in various directions. By the superposition of their rings, they together form a long vertical canal (called the vertebral canal), which is destined to contain and protect the spinal marrow (or spinal cord). This series of vertebrae thus constitute the smaller, 1 From being the skeleton of what is, as it were, the axis of the body. 2 The word "spine" is also frequently employed to denote any slender and more or less pointed prolongation of a bone. 3 From veriere, to turn, though the mobility of most vertebrae is but slight. Fig. 38.—Axial skeleton of the trunk with the ribs of the right side removed to show the vertebrae more dis- tinctly.