*35 THE CRANIAL SKELETON. in.] be plainly visible, instead of being hidden, as it is in man. The five foramina of that fossa, viz. the rotundum, vidian, pterygo-palatine, posterior palatine, and spheno-palatine, are generally present in the Mammalian class, but with the open- ing out of the fossa become more or less, and in different degrees, separated from each other as compared with their common juxtaposition in man. The spheno-palatine and posterior palatine foramina may together be represented by a single small opening, as in the Ornithorhynchus. 35. Before considering the internal surface of the cranium as treated of in Anthropotomy, it may be well to note the relations and conditions presented by a vertical longitudinal section of the entire skull, which are exceedingly significant and instructive. The basi-cranial axis of man forms an angle which approxi- mates to a right angle with the basi-facial axis. In Birds the angle may be as marked as in man, and the human condition may be even much surpassed, as in the Wood- cock, where the facial part is so extremely bent down that its axis forms a very acute angle with the basi-cranial axis. Now, in all the lowest Vertebrates these two axes are in one straight line, as in Fishes, Batrachians, and most Reptiles ; and even in most Mammals the angle formed by them is an exceedingly open one, approximating to 1800. The importance, however, of this distinction is not really so great as at first appears, for there are great differences with regard to it between animals which are very nearly allied. Thus the adult Chacma Baboon differs from his ally the Mandrill in this respect almost as much as man differs from the Gorilla ; and while the Deer has the two axes almost on a line, in the Sheep and Ox they form a very marked angle. The shortness of the basi-cranial axis in man when com- pared with the extreme length of the true brain cavity, is a much more distinctive feature, as in all lower forms this axis is very much longer. Thus, in the Sheep, the basi-cranial axis is as long as the entire cerebral cavity, and in the lowest Verte- brates (where the cerebral hemispheres form but a small part of the brain) it very greatly exceeds it. Similarly the angle formed by it with the plane of the occi- pital foramen, which is so very open in man, contracts in lower Vertebrates till it becomes a right angle ; and the same may be said as to the olfactory angle, or that formed with the basi-cranial axis by the plane of the cribriform plate, or its morphological equivalent.