ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 362 In the arm, the extensor muscles cross each other; in the leg they do not. The triceps is the great extensor of the arm, the quad- riceps of the leg. The peroneus longus and flexor accessories are leg muscles which resemble nothing in the arm of any animal. An interlacing like that which takes place between the flexor tendons of man's foot, is absent in his hand, but is present in the hand of some animals, e.g. Nycticebus. An opponens present in the pollex is wanting in the hallux in man, but the hallux of the Orang is furnished with an opponens. 30. The muscular system is that in which the plastic power which co-adapts structure and function is pre-eminently con- spicuous, as is well shown in the Frog's foot and the wing- edge muscle of Bats and Birds. Thus homologies become difficult to determine, being disguised by such an abundance of adaptive modifications. Though there is a general correspondence between the development of the skeleton and of the muscles which clothe it, yet sometimes skeletal parts may be greatly increased in size, while at the same time there is a simultaneous decrease in the relative development of the muscles annexed, as in the hand of Bats and the thorax of Chelonians. The endo-skeletal muscles may be divided into (1) axial, and (2) appendicular. The axial muscles, like the skeleton (as we saw in the Sixth Lesson), may be subdivided into three groups : (1) ep- axial, (2), paraxial, and (3), hypaxial. They have a primitive relation to vertebral segments, but this relationship is lost, and the segments coalesce antero-posteriorly, in non-gill- bearing Vertebrates. The epaxial group includes the inner part of the erector spinae and its continuations, attaining perhaps its maximum of development in the Flat Fishes, e.g. the Sole, and its minimum in Fishes like Ostracion and in the Tortoises. The paraxial group includes the outer part of the erector spinas and its continuations, also the scaleni, levatores costarum, intercostals, abdominal muscles, rectus, and outer lower tail muscles of Tailed-Batrachians and at least many Fishes. This group is at its maximum of differentiation in Serpents. The hypaxial group includes the recti antici, longus colli, sub-vertebral muscles of Birds, Serpents, and Tailed-Batra-