379 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. IX.] cerebellum more than in man, as in the Saimiri, or they may fail to cover that organ even in an Anthropoid Ape, i.e. in the Siamang Gibbon. Generally it is widely uncovered, and even in Mammals {e.g. in the Insectivorous Bats) the cerebrum may leave the pineal gland and corpora quadri- gemina uncovered also, as generally is the case in forms below Mammals. The presence of lateral ventricles is characteristic of all Vertebrates above Fishes, though the possession of tri-radiate lateral ventricles is a character almost peculiar to Man and Apes—as only in the Seals besides is there a small posterior cornu. Thus the posterior cornu appears, late in zoological order as in chronological order, in man himself. Next to the occipital lobe, the temporal one dwindles as we proceed from man, the Sylvian fissure gradually opening outwards till (as e.g. in the Rabbit) there is but a faint indication of it. The cerebral hemispheres may be solid, as in Tele- ostean Fishes, e.g. the Perch. That transverse commissure, the corpus callosum, may be wanting, as in all below Mammals, and where it is absent no fifth ventricle is, of course, enclosed. Pari passu with the diminution of the corpus callosum we find generally in man's class an increase in the relative size of the anterior commis- sure, but below man's class the latter remains small in spite of the absence of the former. Sometimes, however (as in Cetacea), with only a fairly developed corpus callosum, the anterior commissure may be almost obsolete. 6' Fig. 331.—Right Side View of Brain of the Common Lizard (Lacerta agilis). 1, olfactory lobe ; 2, cerebral hemispheres ; 3, pineal gland ; 4, one of the optic lobes ; 5, cerebellum ; 6, pituitary body ; 7, spinal marrow. 12. The OLFACTORY lobes of man are mere rudimentary structures compared with their condition in many animals, as e.g. in the Rabbit, and very often the ventricular cavity which is but transitorily present in man, is permanent. They may be sessile prominences, close to the hemispheres, as in the Eels, or placed at the end of large diverging peduncles, as in the Rays (Fig. 336, 1). They may considerably exceed the cerebral hemispheres in size, as in the Lamprey.