235 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. The minute structure and more important characters of the dermis, epidermis, and epithelium have been described in the First and Twelfth Lessons of " Elementary Physiology." 5. As the skin (or integument) is thus divisible into two parts, so also the parts annexed to it are similarly divisible according as they have their place of origin in the substance of the ecteron or in that of the enderon. In the first case they are termed ecteronic, and may be called epidermal or epithelial structures according as they arise in the external surface of the body or in the internal passages. In the second case they are called enderonic or dermal structures. Thus our hair and nails are epidermal parts of the exo- skeleton, because they are modifications of the external layer of the skin. On the contrary, our teeth are dermal structures, because they are developed from the deeper layer or enderon. We will consider now more carefully the skin itself before proceeding to treat of its appendages. 6. In the soft nature of his skin man agrees with the great majority of warm-blooded Vertebrates {i.e. of Beasts and Birds), though exceptions are to be met with even in his own class. On the other hand, though the vast majority of cold- blooded Vertebrates {e.g. Reptiles and Fishes) have in one or both layers of the skin solid and dense structures, yet almost all Batrachians (Frogs, Toads, and Efts) agree with man in having an entirely soft and flexible integument. In order to estimate the condition which man presents, it will be well to consider what the examination of other creatures shows us to be amongst the possibilities of skin- structure. 7. First with regard to the epidermis. This, as we know, is shed in man in minute fragments constantly removed by friction and ablution, and constantly replaced. Only under abnormal conditions and after certain diseases does it come away in large and continuous patches. The case is very different in some of the lower animals. Thus the Snakes cast off the entire epidermal investment of the body—even that of the eyes—at once, and this process is repeated at intervals. The little Efts, so common in our pools, also shed the entire epidermis at once. Separating first at the lips, the skin is pushed back over the head by the action of the fore-limbs ;