[less. 336 ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. The muscle may be double and v£ry voluminous, as e.g. in the Chameleon. Even in very near allies of man (the Anthropoid Apes) it ends in two tendons, one going to the trapezium, the other to the metacarpal of the thumb. The extensor primi internodii pollicis appears to be exclu- sively human. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis is often wanting. It may coalesce with the extensor indicis, as in the Dog and Rabbit. Extensor indicis. This muscle may be absent as well as that last described, as e.g. in Hyrax. It may send tendons to other muscles besides the index, viz. to the third, fourth, or fifth digits, as in the Lemuroidea. Supinator brevis. This may even in Mammals be entirely- absent, as in the Horse. There may however be an acces- sory supinator, as in the Iguana. 22. The MUSCLES OF the hand of man of course possess an especial character in harmony with the special perfection of that organ in him. Its muscles, with the exception of the interossei, can hardly be compared with any profit with the muscles of creatures below the rank of Mammals. For though sometimes (as e.g. in Chameleo) we may meet with a so-called flexor brevis pollicis or flexor brevis mini7ni digiti, it is difficult to assert that these are really homologues of the muscles so named in man. Nevertheless, though the muscu- lar condition of the human hand is special, yet its essential type is that common to the class to which man belongs, and especially like that of his own order, Primates, the members of which possess all the manual muscles of man, only more or less different in form and proportion. It may be, how- ever, that these muscles are wanting altogether, as in the Horse and Whale, but they are generally present even where they might not be expected (at least all), as e.g. in the Dog. Opponens pollicis. This muscle in man attains its maxi- mum degree of relative size. It is not only present, though small, in the Primates generally, but it is present in forms quite destitute of an opposable thumb, as e.g. in the Dog. The adductor pollicis may be inserted into the index through atrophy of the pollex, as e.g. in the Dog. Palmaris brevis. This muscle is not peculiar to man. It not only exists in his order, as e.g. in Lemur, but is found even in Marsupials, e.g. the Tasmanian Devil. In the Echidna it has been said to take origin from the ulna. Opponens digiti minimi. This muscle exists not only in