EL EM EN TA R Y ANA TO MY. [less. 54 27. In its marked peculiarities the AXIS of man agrees with that of almost all Vertebrates above the Ichthyopsida, where it is indistinguishable. As we have seen, however, it may, as in many Cetaceans, not remain distinct; and even where it does remain distinct in them, the odontoid process is absent or very short. In the coalescence of that process with the centrum, man agrees with the immense majority of his class ; but in the Duck-billed Platypus it remains distinct as an odontoid bone, as it does also in many Reptiles {e.g. Crocodiles, Chelonians, and Lizards), where, however, it remains closely connected with the body of the axis. Fig. 68.—Atlas and Axis Vertebra of a Chelonian Reptile. hy, hypapophysis of atlas ; t, transverse process ; z, prezygapophysis ; z', post- zygapophysis ; s, neural spine ; hy', odontoid bone ; hy", hypapophysis of true centrum of axis. {From the College of Surgeons' Museum.) The odontoid process may present a semi-cylindrical shape, as in the Sheep. The slightly increased size of the neural spine of man's axis compared with those of his other cervical vertebras, is but a faint indication of the great predominance it attains in many Mammals—arching forwards and backwards over three or four vertebrae. Its apex may be trifid, as in Mycetes and the Potto. Single or double hypapophysial processes may be developed, and the transverse process may be long and large, as in the Monotremes, where it (as a short and wide rib) remains for a considerable time distinct, and is attached to two superimposed transverse processes. In its freedom the second vertebra varies in the way already indicated in describing the atlas. 28. The SIXTH cervical vertebra of man scarcely differs from the fifth, though the capitular root of the transverse pro- cess is slightly wider. This widening is a feeble indication of a marked and general mammalian condition, for (though not in the highest Apes) this root is usually much enlarged,