ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less. 386 in what is called the nervus impar or central liga?nent, which is a delicate filament passing down in the middle of the cauda equina to the bottom of the sacrum or to the coccyx. It is composed almost entirely of the pia mater which originally enveloped the primitively co-extended spinal marrow. Two enlargements are found in the spinal marrow : one (called the cervical) at about from the third cervical ver- tebra to the first dorsal; the other (called the lumbar) at about the last lumbar vertebras. These do not exist at first : they are related to the nerves of the limbs. A minute modification of tissue, the canalis centralis, con- tinues on downwards, from the fourth ventricle of the brain, along the middle of the spinal marrow. In the earliest stages of life this is a very conspicuous longitudinal cavity, being in fact the canal formed by the elevation and closing over of the walls of the embryonic primitive groove. 19. In that the spinal marrow of man is medianly grooved both on its ventral and on its dorsal surface, it follows the rule of the Vertebrate sub-kingdom ; and in that it is con- tinuous with the medulla oblongata, it agrees with all Vertebrates except the Lancelet. As to the extension of the spinal marrow in the neural canal, man's embryonic condition agrees with that which is permanent in lower forms such as Fishes. In that very class, however, e.g. in Diodon, the spinal marrow may be much more shortened, and the cauda equina very much longer relatively than in man, while in his own class (as e.g. in the Hedgehog) these characters may be more marked than they are in him, and a conspicuous cauda equi?ia is found in Frogs and Tortoises. The posterior end of the spinal marrow may present a slight enlargement, as e.g. in the Cod. The canalis centralis is much more conspicuous in lower forms, and in them persists plainly throughout life as a distinct longitudinal cavity. A singular enlargement of this canal may take place towards the lower end of the spinal marrow, as in Birds, where a sort of inferior repetition of the fourth ventricle (called the sinus rhomboidalis) exists in the situation of the lumbar spinal enlargement. The cervical enlargement may alone exist, as in Cetaceans ; while, on the contrary, the cervical and lumbar enlargements may be both so far more marked than in man that the intervening part of the spinal marrow is reduced to a very slender condition, as is the case in the Tortoises.