ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. 396 [less. separated, and secondarily connected with the upper part of the hyoidean visceral arch. Fig. 347.—Diagram illustrating the different developments in Sauro- psidans and ichthyopsidans of parts which in mammals become the Auditory Ossicles. {After Huxley.} No. t, the parts in Man ; No. 2, the parts in the Lizard Sphenodon; No. 3, the parts in the Cod. n, malleus, or quadratum ; a', the segment of it called os articulare ; a", the segment of it called meta-pterygoid ; b, incus—in the Lizard Sphenodon that part of the continuous cartilage which answers to man's incus—in the Cod, the hyo-mandibular; c, the stapes—columella auris in Sphenodon; d, tlie dentary piece of the lower jaw; s, stylo-hyoid, or, in Sphenodon, that part of the continuous cartilage which answers to it ; s , the stapedius muscle ; s", the stylo-hyoid muscle: oh, the basi-hyal, or body of the hyoid : h, the corniculum of the hyoid—in the Cod, called cerato-hyal ; y, symplectic. The external ear, or pinna, may be entirely wanting, as in the Whales and in all below the Crocodiles, in which latter animals it is represented by a slight fold of skin. On the other hand, its proportions may greatly exceed those of man, and, in the little Bat Plecolus, may equal in length the entire trunk. Moreover, the tragus may be (as in the Insectivo- rous Bats) so largely developed as to look like a second pointed ear standing up inside the normal one. A lobule is almost peculiar to man, though a rudiment of it is found in the Gorilla. 24. The portio dura of the seventh NERVE (the facial) arises from the pos- terior division of the hind-brain, appear- ing at the posterior margin of the pons Varolii. It enters the internal auditory meatus, and, piercing the petrous part of the tem- poral bone, bifurcates, and one part comes out at the stylo- mastoid foramen. This part is distributed to the ear-scalp and Fig. 348.—Head of the Common Long-eared Bat (Plecottis auritus). t, the tragus of each ear.