THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 457 XI.] 16. The peritoneum is, as was mentioned at the begin- ning of this lesson, a serous membrane lining the cavity of the abdomen, and reflected, from its posterior wall, over the viscera which the abdomen contains, and indeed more or less completely embracing them, but nevertheless really retaining them external to its proper cavity, as it is a com- pletely closed sac. To understand fully this complex structure it will be well to revert to what was said regarding embryonic development. It will be remembered that the laminae ventrales split, each lamina thus forming an outer and an inner lamella; that the two outer lamellae meet ventrally and form the abdominal wall of <-he body ; and that the two inner lamellae also meet ventrally and form the alimentary canal—the space included between the two pairs of lamellae {i.e. between the outer sur- face of the alimentary canal and the inner surface of the body-wall) constituting the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. Now, the whole of the surface of this cavity becomes modi- fied to form a continuous serous membrane, and this mem- Fig. 388.—Diagram of the deve- lopment of the Trunk and its Skeleton, as shown in a sectk n made at right angles to the trunk's long axis. nc, neural canal; ex, epaxial cartilages ascending to surround it ; fix, par- axial cartilages descending in the plate, or layer (Ive), external to pfi, the pleuro-peritoneal cavity; Ivi, in- ternal plate of the split ventral lamina. Fig. 389.—Diagram of the further Development of the Trunk, as shown in a section similar to the last. a, alimentary canal supported by a me- sentery2 formed of the dorsal portion of the inner parts of the split wall of the embryonic ventral laminae ; e, epaxial arch ; h, hypaxial arch de- scending in the median line in the root of the inner part of the split wall of the ventral laminae ; fi, rib, bi- furcating proximaliy and abutting ventrally against the sternum, which thus completes the paraxial arch ; m, peritoneum, bounding on all sides the pleuro-peritoneal space. brane is the peritoneum. But the root part of the inner pair of lamellae—i.e. that part which intervenes between the alimentary canal and the axial skeleton—diminishes and