IV.] 169 SKELETON OF UPPER LIMB. Very rarely, as in the Crocodile, the two proximal bones may be so much longer than the others as to take on some- what the character of " long bones," and to constitute by themselves another limb segment. 18. The bones OF THE first row of the carpus, except the pisiforme, may be represented by one single bone, as in Ptej'opus. Inasmuch as the scaphoides articulates with the radius, it has a character which is constant. The distinctness which it possesses in man is by no means universal. Thus the sca- phoid coalesces with the lunare in the Carnivora and many- other Mammals, and also probably in the Crocodiles. It unites with the cuneiforme in addition in Pteropus. It may coalesce with the trapezium, as in the Three-toed Sloth. It may become a considerably elongated bone, as in the Crocodile. On the outer (radial) side of the scaphoid we often find a small ossification of a tendon, or sesamoid ossicle, corre- sponding with that sesamoid ossicle of the ulnar side, which is counted as a carpal, and called the Pisiforme. This radial sesamoid ossicle is found even in Apes, but it attains its maximum in the Mole, where it strengthens and broadens the hand for digging. It is found even in some Reptiles, as e.g. in Emys europea. An extra bone which exists in many Vertebrates, but not in man (and which goes by the name of os centrale, or interme- dium), is most probably a dismemberment of the scaphoid. It is present and distinct in the Apes, except the very highest, and many other forms, including most Reptiles and Batra- chians. The form of the scaphoid in Emys europea seems to show that the centrale is a dismemberment of the scaphoid, as indeed does its position in the Orang. This conclusion is indicated by the occasional ossification of the scaphoid from two centres, in the class Mammalia. The centrale may form a very large and conspicuous part of the carpus, to the abortion of any representative of the trapezium. This, e.g., is the case in the Crocodile ; and if the centrale be a dismemberment of the scaphoid, then, con- sidering the length and size of the undoubted scaphoid or scapho-lunar bone in the Crocodile, the equivalent of man's scaphoid forms alone the larger half of the carpus in that reptile. Again, the centrale may form a singularly con- spicuous part, as in the Chameleon, where it is surrounded by the more distal bones of the carpus, which have re- spectively coalesced with their adjacent metacarpals.