THE MUSCLES. VIII. ] A muscle bends the toes, called the flexor longus digitorum pedis, arising behind the tibia below the popliteus. It ends in a tendon which passes behind the internal malleolus and beneath the calcaneal arch, and then divides into four ten- dons—one for each of the four outer digits at their distal phalanx, each perforating in its passage a tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum. The long flexor is connected with a small muscle called flexor accessorius, which passes to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum from the calcaneum. The flexor longus pollicis pedis springs from the posterior surface of the fibula and the interosseous membrane. It ends in a tendon which passes behind the internal malleolus, grooving the tibia, astragalus, and calcaneum. In the sole it gives off a tendinous slip which joins the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and then ends by being inserted into the distal phalanx of the hallux. The tibialis posticus arises from the hinder surface of the tibia (below the popliteus) and from the interosseous mem- brane. It ends in a tendon which first passes beneath the internal malleolus along a special groove, and then beneath the calcaneum, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the naviculare and the first metatarsal. 14. The muscles OF THE foot, besides the flexor acces- sorius already noticed, consist of the following :— The abductor pollicis pedis, which arises from the inner side of the calcaneum, and is inserted into the inner border of the first phalanx of the hallux. The flexor brevis digitorum (or perforatus) arises from the great tuberosity of the calcaneum and from membrane, and ends in four tendons corresponding with the four smaller toes. Each tendon is inserted into the second phalanx of a digit, but splits opposite the proximal phalanx of the same digit in order to allow a tendon of the long or perforating flexor to pass through. The abductor digiti minimi springs from the outer border and under surface of the calcaneum, and ends in a tendon inserted into the proximal phalanx of the fifth digit. The lumbricales, like those of the hand, arise from the tendons of the perforating flexor, and are respectively inserted into the base of the first phalanges of the four outer toes. The flexor brevis pollicis pedis springs from the cuboides and ecto-cuneiforme, and is inserted into the inner and outer borders of the first phalanx of the hallux.