391 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. These three nerves present a singular constancy (both as to origin and distribution) in Vertebrates generally, but where there are extra muscles of the orbit, such as have been already described in the Eighth Lesson, these muscles are supplied by the sixth pair of nerves. It may be, however, that the whole of these nerves are quite blended with one division (the ophthalmic) of the fifth nerve, as e.g. in the Lepidosiren ; or the sixth nerve alone may form one with the fifth, as in the Bull-frog and others ; or the third and fourth nerves may unite to form a com- mon trunk, as in the Lamprey, the external and inferior rectus, together with the inferior oblique, being furnished with nerves by the first (ophthalmic) branch of the fifth nerve. Finally, the whole of these three nerves may abort, as in the Myxine. 22. The FIFTH NERVE, a very large and important one, passes forth from the side of the mid-brain, and, after swell- ing out into what is called the Gasserian ganglion, divides into three nerves, called respectively the ophthalmic, the superior maxillary, and the inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic nerve passes through the spheno-orbital fissure. It subdivides into various branches, of which we may note—(1), the nasal branch, which skirts the ethmoid, and (2), the lachrymal branch, which passes along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. The superior maxillary nerve passes through the foramen rotundum and infra-orbital foramen, and goes to the nose, eyelid, upper lip, and teeth of the upper jaw. The inferior maxillary nerve passes out through the foramen ovale, and goes to the tongue, salivary glands, and adjacent parts,' and, traversing the canal of the mandible, supplies the teeth of the lower jaw with nerve filaments. The tongue, although an organ of special sense, will be more conveniently described amongst the other alimentary structures in the Eleventh Lesson. A remarkable constancy exists as to the fifth nerve in Vertebrates, except that in some lower forms it blends, as has been said, with the sixth nerve or with all the orbital nerves, and, as we shall find, also more or less with the seventh. The points of exit from the cranium may differ as to details even in man's own class, as has been indicated in describing the foramina of the skull in the Lesson on that part of the skeleton. Comparing the essential characters of this nerve and the