THE NER VO US S YS TEM. IX.] 395 The closed sac sends out four processes, three of which become the three semicircular canals, while the fourth de- taches itself, coils round, and becomes the cochlea. In the meantime tissue on the inner side of this "labyrinth" changes into the true auditory nerve, and thus places that structure in direct communication with the brain. This merely membranous labyrinth is afterwards enclosed in dense bone—as before mentioned in describing the petrous part of the temporal bone—the bony investment leaving two apertures (termed respectively the fenestra ovalis and the fenestra rotunda) besides those minute foramina (at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus) through which the filaments of the auditory nerve enter. The visceral cleft meanwhile becomes differentiated into (i) an outermost part (the meatus auditorius externus) in- vested beneath by the tympanic bone, and closed within by the tympanic membrane or drum of the ear ; (2), a median part (the tympanic cavity) bounded externally by the drum of the ear, and traversed by the auditory ossicles, the 7nalleus, incus, and stapes; (3), an innermost part (the Eustachian tube)—a straight, simple canal—opening internally at the side of the roof of the pharynx by a rather wide aperture. The upper ends of the mandibular and hyoidean arches become differentiated into the malleus and the incus respec- tively, the stapes being, as it were, an outgrowth going from the fenestra ovalis to the upper part of the hyoidean arch. From the posterior margin of the hyoidean visceral arch a membrane grows out which becomes the external ear, the concha or pinna, which presents various parts, amongst the smaller yet more noteworthy of which are the soft depending portion, or lobule, and the little conical prominence (called the tragus) which projects backwards over the external opening of the ear. Such being the condition and development of the ear in man, it remains to estimate its peculiarity and the nature of some of its component parts by a brief survey of the more remarkable conditions which the organ presents in other Vertebrates. In that he possesses an internal ear, he agrees with all Vertebrates except the anomalous Lancelet, nor (with this exception) does the organ of hearing ever become atrophied in the way which we have seen such atrophy to occur occa- sionally with the organ of sight. A labyrinth composed of three semicircular canals is also