THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] Besides the articulations mentioned, the maxilla joins with the ethmoid, the vomer, and the inferior turbinal. At birth there may be a suture on the palatine surface of the bone, separating off that small front part in which the incisor teeth are afterwards implanted. 9. The malar bone is irregularly triangular in shape. It forms the outer wall of the bony orbit, and connects the zygomatic process of the squamous part of the temporal bone with the maxilla. It joins above with the external angular process of the frontal, and posteriorly with the great ala of the sphenoid. The nasals are small bones placed side by side above the nares, joining the frontal above, and separating the nasal processes of the two maxillary bones one from the other. The lachrymals are small bones, one of which is placed at the anterior part of the inner wall of each orbit, having the frontal above, the os planum of the ethmoid behind, the nasal process of the maxilla in front, and the orbital plate of the same bone below. Each is marked with a vertical groove, which, by joining the similarly directed groove (before spoken of) on the posterior side of the maxillary nasal process, forms a canal leading from the orbit to the nasal cavity, and termed lachrymal because the tears pass down it. 10. The palate bones, or palatines, are very irregular in shape, and wedged in between the maxilla and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid. Each consists of a long vertical plate, from the bottom of which a smaller horizontal plate projects inwards, meeting its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line, and completing the palate behind the maxilla. The palatine contributes to separate the nasal fossa from the mouth, and extends up into the orbit, where it appears at the back part of its inner wall beneath the os planum, separating the sphenoid from the maxilla, and helping to bound the sphenopalatine foramen. Its outer side is grooved vertically, the groove forming, with the help of the maxilla, the posterior palatine canal. Its posterior surface is interposed between the external and internal pterygoid processes of either side, thus completing the pterygoid fossa in front. The palatine articulates also with the vomer and inferior turbinal. 11. The vomer 1 is a single median bone extending down from the sphenoid and median ethmoid to the upper surface of the bony palate, thus completing the median partition between the nostrils. Its hinder margin marks the partition 1 I.e. ploughshare, so called from its shape.