THE MUSCLES. VIII. J 363 chians, also the psoas and femoro-caudal and the muscular masses investing the chevron bones of Cetaceans, and the lower caudal muscles of some Fishes, e.g. the Sole. Fig. 321.—Superficial Muscles of the Perch. The fin-rays of all the fins are cut short off. 1, great lateral muscle, showing the numerous vertical tendinous intersections slightly but variously inflected; 2, small superficial muscles inserted into the fin-rays of the dorsal and ventral fins ; 4, slender longitudinal muscle running (in the interval of the summits of the two great lateral muscles) between the dorsal and caudal fins; 5, similar muscle on the ventral margin, which also appears between the anal and ventral fins ; 6, small radiating muscles of the caudal fin ; 7, part of the great lateral muscle inserted into the skull; 8 and 9, elevators of the operculum ; 10, elevator of the palato quadrate arch ; 11 and 12, muscular mass which by its contraction closes the jaws ; 13, superficial muscles of the pectoral fin ; 14 and 15, muscles of the ventral fin. The muscles which invest that special division of the hypaxial skeleton, the splanchnapophyses, also constitute a group by themselves, connecting together the hyo-branchial arches and the jaws, the stylo-hyoid, constrictors of the pharynx, buccinator, &c. The appendicular muscles may be divided into those of the limb-girdles and those of the appended limb. They may be at a maximum of size in relation to the axial system, but simple and without any special differentiations, as in the Rays. They may be at their maximum of dif- ferentiation, though less in relative or even in absolute size, as in the highest Mammals. This differentiation begins to be indicated directly weascend from the class of Fishes, as we have seen that even in the Tailed-Batrachians definite flexors, extensors, pro- and su- pinators already appear ; and these distinctions, once esta- blished, persist up to man himself, though with increasing complications. Special complications, especially of the muscles of the pelvic limb, have been found by us to be developed in Reptiles, such as we do not find in man's own class.