THE SPINAL SKELETON. 35 The bone is flat. Of nearly equal width for the greater part of its length, it broadens out above and narrows greatly at its lower end. The broad upper part to which the first rib is annexed is called the manubrium or pre-sterniim.1 The narrow lower end, which projects freely and remains cartilaginous till late in life, is called the xiphoid12 process. 17. The RIBS are long, slender, curved bones, which extend from the spine, and some of them join the breastbone or sternum. They are twelve in number on each side. The seven upper ribs on each side join the sternum by cartilages, and are termed " true ribs." The five lower ribs do not join the sternum, and are called " false ribs." The first rib is much stouter and shorter than the others. Each rib, or costa (except the last two on each side), has a double attachment to the backbone. At its hinder end is a rounded "head" which articulates with the capitular surface of the dorsal vertebrae. A little distance from this there is on the outer side a rounded articular prominence called the "tubercle" which joins the articular surface on the anterior side of each transverse process of the dorsal vertebrae. Between the head and tubercle is a narrower interval called the u neck." Each rib ends at its ventral termination in an elongated cartilage called " costal." Those costal cartilages which are attached to the true ribs, have somewhat pointed inner ends, and these join the sides of the sternum. Those of the false ribs either (as those of the upper three) blend with the lower border of the costal cartilage next above, or else end freely in a blunt point. The backbone and breastbone, with the ribs, form together a sort of bony cage, called the skeleton of the thorax? which is narrow above, broad and widely open below, and wider at its greatest breadth than it is deep at its greatest depth from before backwards. This variation in its dimension from above downwards is produced by the corresponding variation in the length of the ribs, which increases from the first to the eighth, and then gradually decreases. 18. The development of the skeleton of the trunk, or spinal endoskeleton, is briefly as follows :— From each side of the primitive groove, mentioned in the h First Lesson, a longitudinal fold extends tip on each side 1 A handle ; mantis, a hand. 2 From S-lrpoq, a sword ; eldoc, like. 3 From 6u>pa£, a breastplate. D 2