vii.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. 269 pared with those of the upper jaw. In the carnivorous type modification results in a " sectorial" tooth (here, i.e. in the lower jaw, a true molar), which may, as in the Badger, have, in addition to man's five cusps, an anterior one and three small posterior ones ; or only the extra one in front, as in the Dog; or finally, as in the Cat, this tooth may attain its typical perfection. It does so by becoming, as it were, a cutting blade, consisting of but two sharp cusps connected by trenchant ridges, and biting against those of the upper sectorial tooth like one of the blades of a pair of scissors against the other. The posterior cusp seems to answer to the front outer cusp of man, and the anterior cusp to the extra anterior one of the Dog. In the type of dentition culminating in the Horse, we start again from the transverse ridges of the Tapir ; we find double crescents, as in the upper jaw, but with the direction of their convexities reversed, in the Ox and Sheep tribe ; while in the Horse we find a similar reversal, and the extra processes springing from the concave aspect of the crescents. Other and different complexities of form, as in the Ele- phant, will come more conveniently under the head of " Structure." 31. Below Mammals we meet with great varieties of form. Thus, in certain Fishes {e.g. the Chetodons) the teeth are like slender bristles. In the Efts the slender denticles terminate in two points, and in three in the Fish Platax. In Lizards the teeth sometimes have serrated edges, as in the Iguana; sometimes they are rounded, blunt, and crushing. In Fishes we may meet with every variety of shape, and sometimes, amongst the Sharks and Rays, a very great variety in the same mouth. Teeth are sometimes excessively sharp and pointed, as in Lamna and Odontaspis; sometimes they are furnished with singular processes, as in Goniadus. Sometimes, as in the Australian Shark Cestracion, the teeth in the front of the mouth are sharp and pointed, while as we pass backwards they become flattened till they form a sort of pavement to the jaws. It is the Rays, however, which present us with the most wonderful pavement. In some of these Fishes {e.g. in Myliobatis) the teeth are placed in close contiguity, like the pieces of a mosaic, and, what is most remarkable, long and narrow teeth are placed in the middle line so as to cross