ill] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. Si which is at birth separate from a little cylindrical piece of bone which afterwards forms its root, and which is called the tympano-hyal.1 Besides these three elements, three other distinct ossifica- tions extend and coalesce to form the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone, and are distinguished by their diverse relations to parts of the internal organ of hearing. Continuing our enumeration, we have (4) an ossification which gives rise to the upper part of the petrous portion (that which is visible on the inside of the skull) and to part of the mastoid. It forms the upper margin of what will hereafter be noticed as the fenestra ovalis2 of the internal ear, and is especially related to the anterior vertical semicircular canal. It is called the pro-otic? (5) One which gives rise to the lower part of the petrous portion (that which is visible on the base of the skull) and forms the carotid canal. It also forms the lower part of the fenestra ovalis, and surrounds entirely what is termed the fenestra rotunda. It is called the opisthotic? (6) One which gives rise to the mastoid process, and which is developed upon the posterior part, and what we shall here- after know as the posterior vertical semicircular canal of the internal ear. It is called the epiotidf The mastoid process is not prominent at birth. 6. The sphenoid 6 is a very complex bone, and has been likened to a creature with a small body, two pairs of wings, and two legs. The central part, or body (which is anchylosed with the basilar part of the occipital), has on its upper surface a, deepish pit, called the sella turcica ox pituitary fossa, because it receives the pituitary body of the brain. It is bounded behind by a vertical plate, termed "clinoid,"7 from the summit of which projects on each side a " clinoid process." From each side of the body there projects upwards, out- wards, and forwards a large more or less triangular plate, called the greater ala, or wing of the sphenoid, which also sends a lamellar process downwards. At the root of the wing are three holes. The innermost and smallest—the . vidian—transmits the vidian nerve. Above and external to 1 Discovered and named by Professor Flower (" Osteology," p. 123;. Every bone connected with the tongue-bone, or hyoid, has the term hyal as a part of its name. 2 It has also been noticed in the Eighth Lesson of " Elementary Physiology. 3 ripo, before, and ovg, wiog, the ear. 4 "Ontatie, behind. . . 5 ' Ent, above. 6 So called from a-tprjv, a wedge, and eldoc, like. 7 From k\Ivv, a bed. G