47 II.] THE SPIXAL SKELETOX. though less developed, in the posterior cervicals of the Great Auk. The articular surfaces which support the ribs in man are normal in his class. Sometimes, however, each vertebra carries but one surface—that for the head of the rib (as in the Dolphin). The two articular surfaces ma}- coexist at different levels on one single process, as in the dorsal verte- brae of the Crocodile ; or they may be in close apposition, and, as it were, fused together, as in Serpents ; or they may be raised on two quite distinct processes—one dorsal, the other ventral—as in the Ichthyosaurus and in Menobranchus. We rind in some serpents peculiar processes (Fig. 59, t'^ extending ventrally and pre-axially from the base of the inner side of the transverse processes. The even surface of the anterior (ventral) aspect of the dorsal vertebrae of man is very different from what we rind in some animals, as e.g. the Penguin, Cormorant, and many serpents, where there are long hypapophyses equalling or exceeding the neural spines in length. 24. The cervical vertebr.e of man, in that they are seven in number, conform to a law which is singularly con- stant in his class, whatever the length of the neck, whether it be extremely long, like that of the Giraffe, or like that of the Porpoise, reduced to a minimum. Nevertheless, this law is not absolutely universal, as there are one or two singular exceptions amongst Mammals. Thus the Three-toed Sloth has nine cervical vertebrae, while one of the Two-toed kind {Chohvpus Hoffmannii) and the Manatee have but six. In Sauropsidans the number is greater, and sometimes there are as many as twenty-five, as in the Swan. In Batra- chians but a single vertebra can be called cervical, and none merit the name in the class of Fishes. Nevertheless, the first three or four vertebrae next the head ma}-, in some fishes, present a marked difference from those vertebrae which succeed, being much elongated and all united by suture, as in Fistularia and Bagrus^ and they may, as in the latter fish, develop a continuous hypapophysial canal. The second and third vertebrae may form a hollow bladder-like case of bone, as in Cobitis, or send outwards or downwards special processes, as in the Carp. In that the cervical vertebrae of man arc smaller than those in the other regions, he agrees with many animals and differs from many. They may be (as in Bats and in their extinct precursors, the Pterodactyles) absolute!}' larger in all