endoce: EndOCervicitiS.—Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri. See Uterus, Inflammation of {Chronic Cervical Caiarrli). EndOCOlpitiS. — Inflammation of the vaginal uiucdus nK'uilirane. See Vagina, Dis- orders OF {Iiifl(iminatory Affections, Vaijinitis). EndOCyine. — That form of monster (doulile) in wliich one fcetus is contained within tlie otiier ; iVrtus in fa^tu. EndOCySt.—The lining membrane of a hydatid cyst. See Hydatid Disease [Develop- ment). Endoderm.—The hypoblast layer of the blastodermic vesicle. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development (.)I". EndO - FerrnentS. See Enzymes {Nature). EndOgnathion.—The inner segment of the interuuixillary bone. See Palate, Con- genital Malformations of the Mouth {Hare- lip, Development). Endolymph. See Physiology, Nervous System {Semi-circulnr Canals). Endometritis. See Uterus, Inflam- MATi(_)Xs (II' {Enilometritls, ActUe and Chronic); Curettage ; Gynecology, Diagnosis ; Men- struation AND ITS Disorders {Menorrhagia, Dysmenorrhoea); Pregnancy, Ovum and De- ciDUA {Inflammation of Decichia); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Coud {Decidual En- dometritis) ; Pregnancy, HyEMORRHAGE {Detach- ment of Placenta, Etiology, Endometritis); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology {Puerperal Infection, En- dometritis) ; Sterility {Etiology, Endometritis). EndophlebitiS.—Inflammation of the inner coat of a vein. End Orgfan. See I'uvsiology, Senses {Tactile Sense, Eml-hidh, End-plate). Endosaiping^itis. — Inflammation of the mucous memliraue of the Fallopian tube. See Fallopian Tubes {P/flammatiou). Endoscope.—An instrument used for e.xaniiniug, by light, the interior of a hollow organ, such as the bladder, rectuni, and (rarely) the uterus. >SV(' Cystoscope. Endospores. See Micro - Organisms (Uyph om yc( tes). Endothelioma. — A form of sarco- inat(jus tumour in which the cells arise from the endothelium of lym])haties or blood-vessels; it may be met with in the ovarj^; angeiosarcoma or lymphangciosarcoma. See Peritoneum, Tumours of {MalignantDisease, Endotheliomata); iRVICITIS 117 Tum(jurs {Endoflielioma); Tumours op the Ski.n {Endothelioma Cutis). Endothelium. See Physiology, Tissues {Cdinii'di iw Tissues, Endothelium). EndotrypsinS.—Intra-cellular enzymes which dissoh'c albiuiiin. See Enzymes. End Plate.—The expansion at the end of a motor nerve where it terminates in a striated muscle. End Products.—The final results of met:ibolic processes in the liody, thus arginin and lysin are regarded as the end products of a pancreatic digestion. Endyma.—The epithelial lining of the cerebral ventricles. Enemata. Introductokv . . . . .117 Modes op Administration . . .117 Therapeutic Uses . . . . .118 Diagnostic Value . . . . .119 See cdso Constipation {Treatment) ; Cholera, Epidemic {Treatment); Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders OF Infancy {Constijxition); Invalid Feeding {Rectal or Nutrient Enemata). Introductory.—Enemata are licpiid prepara- tions used for injection into the rectum. They are usually classified into three groups—nutrient, purgative, and medicinal, according to their action. Nutrient and medicinal enemata beins intended for absorption, must be small in amount and non-irritating to the neuro-muscular mechanism of the intestine. Purgative enemata, on the other hand, being administered for the purpose of evacuating the bowel, must have the l)0wer of stimulating the intestinal muscle nervous mechanism, and also the glandular structures in the intestine. Hence the main feature of a purgative enema is its bulk, which is usually, for an adult, one, two, or more pints, while the bulk of a nutrient enema should not exceed four ounces. i\IoDES of Adjiinistration.—Enemas are best administered with the patient lying on the side with the knees drawn up. The process of in- jection must be carried on slowly, with occasional pauses, and after the injection a towel may be pressed against the anus, otherwise there is a risk of pi'emature contraction of tlie bowel, with expulsion of the enema. In children a certain amount of pressure exerted on the sides of the anus for a few minutes helps its retention. AVhen it is desirable to inject a large quantity the patient should lie first on the left side, then on the back, and lastly on the right side, so as to promote the filling of the intestine. Cautions.—(1) In all cases avoid injecting air. (2) Alwa^'s see that the end of the nozzle