ERYTHEMA 182 dromal symptoms lasting a day oi- two before the appearance of the eruption, loss of appetite, headache, ill-defined pains in the muscles and joints, and especially a feeling of extreme lassi- tude, with perhaps slight fever, the rash suddenly makes its appearance, and continues to appear in crops for one or two weeks. During this period the symptoms of the prodromal stage are usually continued, and to them is added a rather rapidly supervening anaemia. After this no fresh lesions come out, and convalescence progresses steadily. As regards the occurrence of fever, there does not seem to be any very definite relationship to the severity of the erup- tion, since Polotebnoff in his monograph quotes two cases, in one of which fever was severe with a slight eruption, and in the other a very profuse eruption was accompanied by only slight fever. Of symptoms occurring in other organs the commonest is the occurrence of erythemat- ous or bullous lesions on the mucous membrane and conjunctivitis. This is the case chiefly with the vesicular forms of the disease, but nodose erythema has also been observed on the lips and palate, in the latter of which situations the nodes burst and left crateriform ulcers. Gastric and intestinal symptoms, such as vomit- ing and diarrhoea, are not uncommon, and may be very severe, and it is of interest to note that in a fatal case of Hebra's E. gyratum was found post-mortem in the small intestine. Besides the fleeting pains in the muscles and joints so commonly seen, there may be organic changes in the joints, usually ending in complete re- covery, but occasionally leading to ankylosis. Affections of other serous membranes, such as pleurisy and pericarditis, have been frequently observed, and endocarditis may also occur. Bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia have also been reported as producing a fatal result in some cases. Swelling of the liver or spleen, or both, seems very common, and Polotebnoff quotes two cases of his own in which general enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands occurred. Diagnosis.—The papular and vesicular forms of erythema have to be distinguished from measles, eczema, syphilis, and Dermatitis her- petiformis. From measles the points of distinc- tion have already been given under roseola. Acute vesicular eczema may be generally separ- ated by the facts that the vesicles and papules are smaller and much more closely set, thus tending to run together, that they occur in large sheets, that each individual papule or vesicle is more pointed, that in most places the follicles are especially picked out, that the sub- jective symptoms are more restricted to severe itching, and lastly, that constitutional symp- toms are slight or absent. From syphilis the diagnosis may be so difficult that with all accom- panying symptoms it is still doubtful. The greater indolence of the syphilitic lesions and the shotty lymphadenitis are chiefly to be relied upon; the throat symptoms may, it is true, be of service, bat where marked affection of the throat occurs in E. multiforme the distinction will be very difficult. From a first attack of Dermatitis herpetiformis the diagnosis may well be impossible. The chief points are more itch- ing in D. herpetiformis, wider generalisation of the rash, less often a tendency to the concentric arrangement so typical of E. multiforme, and, as a rule, at first less marked constitutional symptoms. E. nodosum must be distinguished from gum- mata and from Erythema induratum. From the former the points of distinction are the more rapid formation, the greater symmetry, and usually the greater number of nodes, the much more marked tenderness, and, lastly, the less defined limits to the nodes. From the latter the points are the greater tenderness, the situation on the front rather than on the back of the leg, the more acute course, and the con- stitutional symptoms. In some severe cases the clinical features closely simulate acute osteo- myelitis {vide " Bone). Pathology and Etiology.—The collection and analysis of large numbers of cases of the various forms of E. multiforme have rendered the hypothesis that it is a specific disease un- tenable. Besnier has pointed out that it is im- portant to realise that there is no specificity of cause in the erythemata. It is conceivable that the determining cause of the eruption may act in one of at least three ways, namely, on the vascular centres, on the vaso-motor nerves, or upon the vessel walls. It is probable that the rash may be produced in any one of these ways, and, in view of the fact that some individuals are much more prone to the eruption than others, it is necessary to presuppose a greater delicacy of the neuro-vascular system in such persons. This is the individual disposition assumed by Besnier, who believes that it may be innate and permanent, or acquired and tran- sitory. Such being the case it is easy to see that irritants acting locally may produce—(1) An erythema co-extensive with the area of application, direct action on the vessel walls; (2) an erythema spreading beyond the area of application, but not generalised, action on the vaso-motor nerves and secondary ganglia; (3) a generalised erythema, due either to reflex action on the vaso-motor centre or to absorption and circulation of the irritant. The eruptions of the first and second class are usually roseolus or scarlatiniform in type, and may be produced by innumerable causes. Among others mercury and iodine employed locally are common causes, but it is to be remembered that mercury especi- ally may produce a generalised erythema either of the scarlatiniform type or of E. multiforme, when applied locally. Lewin also reported the