FINGERS 29S and the difficulty the surgeon often experiences in removing them. Fractures, vide article " Fractures." Simple Dislocations at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints are fairly common, the first phalanges being as a rule dislocated hackwards. The injury occurs from a fall or a blow, and is most frequently seen in the thumb. In this instance the articular surface of the first phalanx lies on the dorsal surface of the meta- carpal bone, and the head of the latter can be felt on the palmar surface. The first phalanx is over-extended, the second phalanx being some- what flexed. The dislocation is often exceedingly difficult to reduce owing to the head of the metacarpal bone being caught between the two divisions of the flexor brevis pollicis. Reduction is facilitated if the patient be anaesthetised, and is eftected by first extending the first phalanx, possibly with the aid of a clove hitch or an " Indian puzzle," to a right angle with the meta- carpal, then exerting traction in the same line, while simultaneous pressure is put on the head of the metacarpal bone from the dorsal aspect, and by finally flexing the first phalanx. If in spite of these manipulations the dislocation remains unreduced, the obstructing structures must be divided by the tenotomy knife, and reduction is then easy. To obviate a recurrence of the dislocation the thumb should be kej^t flexed into the palm for some time afterwards. Simple dislocations at the interphalangeal joints are not very common, partial dislocation of the middle phalanx being the most frequent. Reduction is as a rule easily performed, but there is often subsequent stiffness of the joint. Compound dislocations, whether at the inter- phalangeal or metacarpo-phalangeal joints, are also met with. Reduction is as a rule easy, and the treatment otherwise is to be carried out on general surgical principles. 5. Inflammatory Affections.—The fingers may be the seat of ulcers, chancres, bursitis, ganglia, etc., none of which require detailed description here. Whitloiv or paronychia is the term signifying inflannnation of a finger. It is almost invariably the result of trauma, which may, however, have been so trivial an abrasion, scratch, or pin-prick that it was disregarded, but which sufficed for the entrance of pathogenic micro-organisms into the tissues. The bacteria most commonly associated with these whitlows are the Staphylo- coccus aureus, S. albus, and streptococci. The state of the general health is an important etiological factor, whitlow occurring, ceteris jiiiribus, most frequently in debilitated siibjects and in delicate children. Apart fi'om acute periostitis, the inflammation mainly affects either the skin and cellular tissue, or the synovial slieaths and tendons. There are thus two chief \ aricties of whitlow ; (1) Superficial, (2) Deep. {I) The former, where chiefly the areolar tissue and skin are involved, is both the more frequent and also the simpler of the twa varieties. The inflammation commonly com- mences in one of the terminal phalanges, usually on the palmar surface, and varies greatly in intensity. If the skin alone be alTected there may be merely redness and slight pain, or there may also be serous or purulent effusion, manifested as a bulla on the surface of the digit. If the cellular tissues are involved, the signs are more marked. There is greater pain and throbbing, the finger is hot and swollen, and if suppuration has occurred fluctuation may be elicited. If the condition has been neglected the pus may have made its way through the cutis, the inflammation may have involved the tendon sheaths, or if the whitlow commenced at the finger-tip there is a special liability to necrosis of the long flexor tendon and of the terminal phalanx. This variety of whitlow is not usually, unless neglected, of a serious nature, although often accompanied by such general constitutional disturbance as occurs from in- flammatory processes elsewhere. One special form of these whitlows may be mentioned, viz. laerionychia. The suppuration here affects the matrix or the root of the nail and causes great pain; the nail becomes detached, or if not, it will usually require to be removed before a cure can be effected. (2) The second variety, in which the tendon sheaths are affected. Here the inflammation starts either in the sheaths themselves or extends to them from the cellular tissue or the bone. The condition is a more serious one, the pain and swelling are more intense, and the con- stitutional symptoms are more severe. The tendons are liable to necrose, and in this variety of whitlow, as well as in the former, the in- flammation may extend to the periosteum and bone and cause necrosis. The anatomical arrangement of the flexor sheaths of the thumb and little finger affords the explanation why this variety of whitlow is more dangerous in the thumb or little finger than in the other digits, and why the suppuration more often extends to the forearm. Treatment.—In the milder forms, where the skin is chiefly affected, simple wet dressings, preferably of a weak antiseptic nature, ma}' suffice to relieve the pain, and a cure may often result without further treatment. If suppura- tion has occurred with the formation of a bulla, this should be opened, the sero-purulent fluid evacuated, dead epithelium removed, and a wet dressing applied. When the areolar tissues are involved, and even though suppuration has not yet occiu-red, a free incision is indicated. This is of great benefit in checking any further extension of the suppui'ation, and in warding off necrosis of the bone and tendons. If there are signs of suppuration in the synovial sheath the incision must be carried down so as to open the