291 FINGERS Bee also Ainhum ; Amputations (Upper Ex- tremity, Hand) ; Artificial Limbs {Hand); Brain, Physiology {Functions in Cerebral Cortex, Centres for Finf/ers); Bronchi, Bronchi- ectasis {Clinical Phenomena, Clubbing of Fingers); Deformities {Hand and Fingers); Fractures {Fhcdanges); Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Nutritional Changes, "ClubbedFingers''); Heart, Congenital Malformations of {Physical Signs, Clubbing of Fingers); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Integumentary, Clubbing of Fingers); Nails, Affections of ; Raynaud's Disease {Local Syncope, Fingers); Sclbro- DERMIA. 1. Medical and Surgical Anatomy.—Tendons are found mainly in relation to the anterior and posterior aspects. Flexion is performed by the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor profundus digi- torum, and flexor brevis minimi digiti. Extension is produced by the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor indicis. The fingers are adducted by the palmar inter- ossei, and abducted by the dorsal intei'ossei, and in the case of the little finger by the abductor lainimi digiti. The dorsal interossei, too, to- gether with the lumbricales flex the first and extend the second and third phalanges. Lateral incisions into the fingers should if possible be made on the ulnar rather than on the radial aspect, so as to avoid the lumbricales (Kocher). The names of the muscles acting on the thumlj indicate the movements produced by them. As low down as the terminal phalanx in each finger, the flexor tendons are invested by fibrous slips from the palmar fascia, and enclosed too in a synovial sheath which commences ojDposite the head of the metacarpal bone and extends downwai'ds. In the case of the thumb this sheath is continued up into the forearm, and the tendon sheath of the little finger sometimes communicates with the common flexor sheath. Of the iransverse grooves in the skin on the anterior surface, the two distal ones are almost opposite the respective interphalangeal joints, while the most proximal one, which is on a level with the web of the fingers, is about three- quarters of an inch below the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Vessels. — The fingers are supplied by the four digital branches of the superficial palmar arch, which are situated laterally beneath the digital nerves, by the dorsalis indicis, radialis indicis, dorsalis poUicis, princeps pollicis, and the two dorsal digital branches of the meta- carpal branch of the radial artery. Nerves.—The flexor sublimis digitorum, the radial half of the flexor profundus digitorum, the abductor pollicis, opponens pollicis, the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two radial lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve. Sensory fibres from this nerve su]iply on the anterior aspect the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and radial half of the ring- finger ; filaments unite too with the dorsal digital branches of the radial nerve to supply the same fingers on the dorsal aspect. The ulnar half of the flexor profundus digi- torum, the muscles of the little finger, the inter- ossei, the two inner lumbricales, the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, are supplied by the ulnar nerve. This nerve gives sensory branches to the ulnar side of the little finger and the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers. It also sends a com- municating filament to the branch of the radial nerve supplying the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers on the dorsal aspect. The extensor communis digitorum, extensor indicis, extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor muscles of the thumb, are supplied by the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The radial branch of the same nerve supplies on the dorsal aspect the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and radial side of the ring- finger. 2. Appearances in certain General Dis- eases, etc. — Much valuable information is to be obtained from a careful study of the fingers. The pursuit of certain occupations may produce distinctive marks. Such are the callosities on the adjacent sides of the index finger and thumb, and between the third and fourtli fingers in coachmen, and the callosities on the radial sides of the thumb and forefinger in masons. Owing to the diversity in diflPerent individuals of the lines and whorls produced by the papillte in the skin of the distal phal- anges, the study ol finger-jmnts is said to furnisli most reliable aid towards the identification of persons. Indications of various morbid processes may be detected by an examination of the fingers. The pulsation of the digital vessels may be unduly forcible on palpation, or even visible, in cases of aortic incompetence, and in other conditions where the peripheral vessels are in a state of undue relaxation. Accompany- ing- this there is often visible capillary pulsation which will be most evident in the finger-nails. Cyanosis, whatever be its cause, is often notice- able in the fingers. It is specially pronounced in cases of cardiac disease, whether congenital or otherwise, and of pulmonary emphj'sema. The cyanosis may, however, be localised, and be a manifestation of Raynaud's disease. This is usually a symmetrical affection ; the cyanosis is preceded by local syncope, and is sometimes followed by sloughing and even gangrene of the aiTected parts. Clubbed fitigers, or Hippocratic fingers, are common. The terminal phalanges become broadened, the curvature of the nails is increased, and the digits are frequently cyanosed. Such fingers are most often seen in the course of some chronic pulmonary disease, such as phthisis, bronchiectasis, emphysema, or empyema^