GLOSSITIS 474 Glossitis.—Inflammation of the tongue. See Tongue {hiflamniatory Affections). GiOSSOCele.—Protrusion of the tongue, from disease or on account of congenital hyper- trophy (sometimes unilateral). GiOSSOdynia.—Pain in the tongue; giossalgia. Glosso-labio-iaryng^eal Para- lysis. — Bulbar paralysis. See Paralysis (Paralysis ivith Atrophy of Muscles, Chronic Nuclear Bulbar Paralysis). Glosso-Pharyngfeal Nerve. See also Brain, Physiology of (Ninth Cranial Nerve); Physiology, Nervous System (Cranial Nerves, Ninth Pair); Tabes Dorsalis (Sympto- matology, Affection of Cranial Nerves). This nerve comes out by five or six filaments from the upper part of the medulla, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, and the fibres can be traced to three nuclei, the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus proper, the funiculus solitarius, and some of the fibres, probably motor, pass into the upper part of the nucleus ambiguus, which mainly belongs to the vagus. (Some authorities consider it difficult accurately to difTerentiate the nuclei of origin of this nerve from those of the vagus, and further hold that this nerve ought to be described as a part of the vagus.) The nerve passes out through the middle division of the jugular foramen, along with the spinal accessory and vagus nerves, but separated from them by a special sheath of fibrous tissue. In the foramen it is external, and also in front of the other nerves, and has on it two ganglia, the jugular and the petrosal, which resemble the spinal ganglia as regards their constituent cells. Following Quain's description, the nerve appears below the internal carotid and jugular vein, and is directed downwards over the carotid artery, and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the hinder border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle; then curving forwards, it crosses over the outer surface of this muscle, and passing beneath the hyogiossus ends in branches for the posterior part of the tongue. The jugular ganglion is situated in the jugular foramen, and includes only the lower fibres of the nerve. The petrosal gan- glion is situated in a small depression in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and from it the nerve of JacoVjson and the branches to the vagus and sympathetic arise. The nerve supplies sensory branches to the back of the tongue, the phai'ynx. Eustachian tube and middle ear. Taste fibres for the posterior third of the tongue and neighbouring gustatory mucous membrane are carried by this nerve. The fibres probably in most cases leave the glosso - pharyngeal by way of Jacobson's nerve, the small superficial petrosal, and the otic ganglion, to reach the third division of the trigeminus. The nerve supplies motor fibres to the stylo- pharyngeus muscle, and possibly middle con- stricture of the pharynx, very probably along with the vagus. The nerve also supplies secretory and vaso-dilato^' fibres to the parotid gland through the otic ganglion and the auriculo- temporal nerve, and it is connected with the vagus, the third division of the fifth, the seventh, and the sympathetic. Etiology and Clinical Features.—The nuclei of the nerve might be injured in the medulla by haemorrhages, acute softening, sclerosis, or tumours, and at the point of exit of its con- stituent filaments, by syphilitic disease, aneurysm, or meningitis, and in the peripheral course of the nerve by thi-ombosis of the jugular vein, or inflammatory swellings, tumours, and so forth compressing the nerve. The nuclei suffer, but never as an isolated lesion, and in acute and chronic bulbar paralyses other nuclei are always included, and it is hardly conceivable that in a lesion affecting the nerve, whether intra- or extra-cranially, that the vagus at least could escape. The clinical features can hardly be stated with any degree of certainty, as isolated lesions of this nerve are not obtainable in sufficient numbers to supply data. If the nerve is injured beyond the ganglia then taste should be lost in the posterior third of the tongue. If the ordi- nary sensory and motor fibres are injured the pharynx will be insensitive, and food is swallowed with difficulty, partly due to this loss of sensa- tion, and partly to the muscles supplied by this nerve being paralysed. The prognosis and diagnosis call for no special remark, and the treatment must be upon general principles. GlOSSOplegfia.—Paralysis of the tongue. Glossy Skin. See Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis. Glottis. See Asphyxia (Causes, (Edema. Glottidis); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Morbid Anatomy, Pressure); Hiccough; Larynx,Laryn- gismus Stridulus ; Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations ((Edematmis Laryn- gitis); (Complications, (Edema Glottidis); Physiology, Respiration (Voice, Larynx, Anatomy and Physiology); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptomatology, Laryngeal Crises); Teeth (Alveolar Abscess, Sequelce, (Edema and Spasm of Glottis); Thymus Gland (Enlargement, Mechanical Effects). Gloves, Rubber.—Rubber gloves are much used in surgery for the carrying out of the principles of asepsis ; they interfere slightly with the sense of touch, and various substitutes