ERYSIPELAS 175. Erysipelas. Definition ..... . 175 Etiology and Morbid Anatomy . 175 Clinical Features .... . 175 Clintcai, Types of Erysipelas . 176 Complications of Erysipelas . . 177 Differential Diagnosis . . 177 Treatment ..... . 177 See also Alopecia {Etioloiiy); Bone, Diseases OF i^Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis^ Diagnosis); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis, Etio- logy) ; Diphtheria {Diagnosis from erysipelas faucium); Glanders {Symptoms in Man, Dia- gnosis) ; Herpes {Diagnosis); Immunity {Swine Erysipelas); Joints, Diseases op {Pyogenic); Leucocytosis {Causal Varieties); Meninges of the Cerebrum {Meningitis from E7ysipelas); Nephritis {Etiology) ; Nephritis {Chronic, Secondary Inflammations); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {General Etiology); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Etiology); Pericardium, Diseases op {Pericarditis as Com- plication of Erysipelas); Pneumonia, Clinical {Etiology, Erysipelas); Pregnancy, Affections AND Qo^ivuoA:noT^iii{Eevers,Erysipelas); Purpura {Infections) ; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {AntistreptocrjccusSerum); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment of (" Coley's Fluid," q.v.); Urine, Bacteria in {In Infective Diseases). Erysipelas is an acute, specific, spreading in- flammation of skin or mucous membrane. The disease shows a marked disposition to remain localised to the skin and immediately subjacent tissue, and there is no natural tendency to pus- formation, ulceration, or gangrene. The inflam- matory process usually ends in spontaneous resolution without leaving any permanent struc- tural change in the affected tissues. Etiology and Morbid Anatomy.—Fehleisen (1884) was the first to show that erysipelas is always associated with the growth in the minute lymph channels of a streptococcus, which he believed to be specific as regards this disease, and called the Streptococcus erysipelatis. For some years this view was current, but the majority of bacteriologists now hold that the disease is caused by the ordinary St7'eptococciis pyogenes "of a certain degree of virulence," although the conditions which so modify the organism as to produce this particular degree of virulence are as yet undetermined. The organisms always gain entrance through a wound or abrasion of the skin or mucous membrane, but the lesion may be so trivial as to be entirely overlooked. A slight scratch, an acne pustule, a crack on the nasal or buccal mucous membrane, or the open cavity of a carious tooth, may be the seat of infection, and so mnnerous are the possible avenues that the existence of an idiopathic form of erysipelas is more than doubtful. The streptococci are found in the lymph spaces of the skin, and may spread into the- more superficial layers of the subcutaneous tissue. They also occur in the serous blebs which sometimes form over the inflamed area, but they never invade the blood-vessels. They are most active in the zone just beyond the swollen margin of the inflamed area, but rapidly disajjpear as the inflammation subsides. On microscopic examination of a portion of erysipelatous skin four distinct zones are to be recognised :—(1) Towards the spreading mai'gin just beyond the reddened area is a zone in which all the lymphatics are found full of rapidly multiplying streptococci. (2) Behind this the tissues show all the evidences of acute inflam- mation with dilated vessels, exudation of serum and migrated leucocytes, many of which contain streptococci in their anterior. (3) Still farther- back the inflammatory reaction is passing oft', and the leucocytes are being destroyed by the fibroblasts or macrophages, no free cocci being- visible. And (4) behind this the skin has regained its normal appearances. The organisms may be stained hy Gram's method ; or cultivated on gelatine or agar {see " Micro-organisms "). When suppuration ensues on an attack of erysipelas it is in all probability the result of a mixed infection with one or other of the pyogenic cocci. The systemic syinjDtoms in erysipelas are due entirely to absorption of toxines, as the presence of the bacteria in the blood has not been de- monstrated. The immunity produced by one attack is very transient. In fatal cases the j^ost-mortem findings are those common to all forms of acute blood poisoning; a dark, tar-like state of the blood ; a swollen and softened condition of the spleen ; cloudy swelling of the heart-muscle, the liver, and the kidneys; multiple ecchymoses in the pleura, pericardium, and various mucous mem- branes ; and dropsical effusions into the lung tissue. Erysipelas has been inoculated as a therapeutic measure in various diseases, such as cancer, sarcoma, luj)us, syphilitic lesions, etc., but with- out such a degree of benefit as to justify the risk. Clinical Features.—The incubation of the disease was found to vary from 15 to 61 hours in a series of cases inoculated by Fehleisen for therapeutic purposes. The first clinical sign is a feeling of malaise, with headache and pains in the back and limbs. The appetite is lost and the patient usually becomes sick and vomits. A feeling of chilliness, seldom amounting to a distinct rigor, ensues, and concurrently the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or 105° F., and remains high with but slight remissions during the course of the disease. The pulse at first is full and bounding, and