GOUT 489 increase from day to day until the fit breaks out. A few days before this torpor comes on, and a feehng of flatus along the legs and thighs. Besides this there is a spasmodic affection, whilst the day before the fit the appetite is unnaturally hearty. The victim goes to bed in good health and sleeps. About two o'clock in the morning he is awakened by severe pain, generally in the great toe ; more rarely in the heel, ankle, or instep. This pain is like that of a dislocation of the bones of those parts, and is accompanied by a sensation as of chilly water poured over the veins of the suftering joint. Then follow chills and shivers and a little fever. The pain, which was at first moderate, becomes gradually more intense, and while it increases the chills and shivers die out. Every hour that passes finds it greater, until at length at night time it reaches its worst intensity, and insinuates itself with most exquisite cruelty among the numerous small bones of the tarsus and metatarsus, in the ligaments of which it is lurking. Now it is a violent stretching and tearing of the ligaments, now it is a gnawing pain, and now a pressure and tightening. So exquisite and lively mean- while is tiie feeling of the part affected that it cannot bear the weight of the bedclothes nor the jar of a person walking in the room. Hence the day is passed in torture, and a restless rolling, first to one side then to the other, of the suffering limb, with perpetual change in posture ; the tossing of the body being about as incessant as the pain of the tortured joint, and being at its worst as the fit is coming on. Hence the vain efforts, by change of posture both in the body and the limb affected, to obtain an abatement of the pain. This goes on towards the second or third hour of the morning (a whole day and night after the first outbreak of the fit), such time being necessary for the moderate digestion and dispersion of the peccant matter. The patient thus has a sudden respite which he falsely attributes to the last change of position. A gentle perspiration is succeeded by sleep. " He wakes fi'cer from pain, and finds the part recently affected swollen. Up to this time the only visible swelling had been that of the veins of the affected joint. Next day (perhaps for the next two or three days), if the generation of the gouty matter has been abundant, the part affected is painful, getting worse towards evening and better towards morning. A few days later the other foot swells and suffers the same pain. Tlie pain in the latter regulates the state of the one first attacked, for the more acutely it is tortured, the more perfect is the abatement of suffering and the return of strength in the other. Nevertheless there is a repetition in the second case of all the misery of the first, both as regards intensity and duration. Sometimes during the first days of the disease the peccant matter is so exuberant that one foot is insufficient for its discharge. It then attacks both and that with equal violence. Generally, however, it takes the feet in succession." AVith regard to 'premonitions there is a great diversity in the nature and frequency of their occurrence, and in a few cases none may have been observed. Those most frequently encountered have reference to the digestive system, the usual run of symptoms in a rolnist adult being as follows :— The patient does not feel well, but cannot clearly define his feelings. He feels "gouty" and thinks you should understand the feeling. On closer inquiry we find that there has lieen some slight irregularity in the intestinal action, a little undue peristaltic movement associated with slight discomfort not amounting to pain, slight constipation, a moderate degree of iiatu- lence, with fitful sleep the preceding night. The tongue is slightly furred posteriorly with a faintly yellowish white fur, the breath is a little foul, the appetite unimpaired or capricious, the conjunctivae a little muddy, and the pulse tension slightly raised. If he has had many previous attacks, there are other subjective sensations in the arms or legs. His facial expression reflects the coming trouble, and, as the mind is preoccupied with the analysis of these various distiirbances, some depression of spirits or irritability of temper is a not unnatural sequel. In other cases various nervous disorders ai'e the most prominent indications—shooting pains, cramp, neuralgia, headache, cardiac irregu- larity, and irritable temper. The constitutioiud disturbance is as a rule out of proportion to the amount of febrile move- ment. The temperature does not usually rise above 102°, but varies with the severity of the local inflamtnation, and to a less extent with the number of joints involved. The fever remains from three to five days, but may remit and recur. The acute attack may occur at any period of the day, and while the usual course of the disease is for the great toe joint to be the part first affected, in not a^ few cases the primary attack occurs in the knees, ankles, tarsus, or hands. This fact may be exijlained in some cases by the previous occurrence of an injury to the part affected, in virtue of which its vitality has been permanently weakened, and the part rendered more prone to the in- cidence of the existing poisons. In other cases, however, there is nothing discernible either in the previous history or occupation of the patient to explain this departure from the usual course of the disease. When the swelling increases the pain lessens ; later the parts pit on pressure, and the cuticle cracks and desquamates. At the height of the attack the pulse tension is usually high, the tongue heavily coated, the appetite gone, hiccough, eructations, sometimes vomiting, and also constipation present. In very severe cases, where the affection has ceased to be a purely articular one, I have observed