403 GASTRO INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY cardiac opening, is almost diffluent, and in the middle of the softened area there is generally a perforation with thin, frayed edges. The con- nective tissue of the posterior mediastinum has disappeared, and the nerves and vessels are cleanly dissected out by the action, of the digestive fluid which has escaped through the perforation. Usually the adjoining parietal pleura on one or both sides is also softened and perforated by digestion, and an ounce or more of opaipie reddish brown fluid, sometimes with parti.illy digested food, is found in the pleural cavity. The posterior and lower part of the lung also is softened, greenish brown, and friable. DlBEA.SES OF THE StOMACH AND InTESTIXE CorKjenital Hypertrophy of the Pylorus.—Since the year 1841, when this condition was first recorded, a considerable numl)er of cases have been observed in which obstruction of the pylorus existed in infants soon after birth, and it seems likely that this condition is less rare than was at first supposed. Boys seem to be rather more often affected than girls : out of nineteen cases twelve were males, seven females; but the numbers are at present too small to afford reliable information on this point. No family predisposition has been observed. Symptoms.—The infant is born healthy, and may be a fine child at birth. For the first week or two it takes food well, and there is no vomit- ing, or only such slight regurgitation as may be natural at this age. This latent period of apparent health varies, in very few cases vomiting lias begun on the day of birth, in about half the cases the onset of vomiting has occurred within the first fortnight, in several cases it has been delayed until the fourth, fifth, or even sixth week. Vomiting is the first symptom, and for a time gives rise to but little anxiety, for at this stage it may occur only once or twice in the day. At the same time the bowels are costive. A change of feeding is tried, and the vomiting perhaps diminishes, but after a few days increases again; other changes of diet are tried, but soon cease to have any influence on the vomiting, which becomes more and more frecjuent until almost every food is vomited. In some cases, especially in the early stage, and when small feeds are given, the food is retained for some hours, and then vomited in large quantity ; more often, however, the vomiting occurs a few minutes after a meal, and in the later stage immediately after swallowing. There is usually no retching, and when the condition is advanced the food seems to be pumped up forcibly by the liypertrophied stomach. The vomit consists of curdled milk or of what- ever food has been given, but soon some gastric catarrh occurs, and mucus is mixed with the vomit, and sometimes even streaks of blood. Where there is much dilatation of the stomach the vomit has a frothy appearance. The absence of bile from the vomit is j^articulaidy noticeable, as pointing to obstruction of the pylorus. Pain is often absent throughout, but in some cases there seems to be some pain accompanying the act of vomiting. A very characteristic sign of congenital hyper- trophy of the pylorus is visible peristalsis of the stomach ; in some cases it is so obvious that it has attracted the notice of the parents, in others it is only noticeable with care, and to elicit it gentle flicking of the abdominal wall may be required. A rounded prominence appears bulging- forward in the epigastrium, first just below the left costal margin, and then travelling with a slow vermicular movement across the epigastrium to disappear at the right costal margin. This movement from left to right serves to distinguish it from peristalsis of the colon, in which the movement is from right to left. An even more important sign of this condition is a palpable tumour in the position of the pylorus. This has been present in several of the cases, but has not been detected usually until several weeks after the onset of vomiting; the earliest date at which it has been felt is the twenty-seventh day after birth (J. Thomson), about three weeks after the onset of vomiting. Even in cases where the pylorus is easily palpable, it is not so at all times alike ; its palpability depends on the temporary condition of the muscle, and, like an intussusception, it may be felt only when there is some contraction of its muscular coat occurring. For this reason one examination is not sufficient to exclude the presence of a palpable enlargement of the pylorus. Associated with the vomiting there is almost always much constipation, and when the vomit- ing becomes severe there is marked diminution in the amount of urine passed. As less and less of the food is retained, wasting becomes extreme, the temperature becomes subnormal, and in most cases the child dies of exhaustion. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—The hyper- trophy of the pylorus is due to an increase in the thickness of its muscular coat, chiefly in the circular layer. In a few cases some increase also of the connective tissue has been found, but this is exceptional. The cause of the muscular hypertrophy or hyperplasia is still luidetermined ; it seems certain that it is partly an extra-uterine occurrence, although there can be little doubt that some congenital abnormality underlies it. Some would regard the excess of muscle tissue as a developmental erroi-, a con- o-enital malformation ; others consider that this excess is simply the manifestation of mcreased function from some cause, either extra- or intra- uterine. Perhaps the most probable theory is that put forward by Dr. John Thomson, \vho suggests that some functional disturbance of the