FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF 315 a cellular layer, and an ■hiiier layer of large, well-defined cells, Avith large oval nuclei. The former is called the 2^ln^'»^odial layer; it has received many other designations, of which tropliohlaU (Clarence Webster), and syncytium (German authors) are the most important. The latter is called the cellular layer, or the layer of Langhans. It is probable that botli these layers arise in the foetal epiblast, although many observers regard the plasmodial layer as maternal in origin, while others regard the cellular layer as derived from mesoblast. This histogenetic problem cannot, however, be dis- cussed in this article. During the early months of gestation the plasmodial layer shows great activity. From it spring numerous buds, elongated or club- shaped, conical or rounded, and having the same structure as tlie layer from which they arise. The plasmodial buds represent the first stage in the process of multiplication of the villi. Their protoplasm soon becomes freely vacuolated, and the stroma then grows into them, carrying with it vascular twigs from the allantoic vessels, thus completing the structure of the new villi. (2) The stroma is a delicate reticidum of connective tissue supporting the blood-vessels. In the larger chorionic divisions it is more compact, resembling loose fibrous tissue, and is especially well marked aroiuid the larger arteries. The interstices probably represent lymphatic spaces. (3) The blood-vessels are the terminal ramifi- cations of the allantoic or umbilical arteries and veins; they pass into every division of the chorion, and in an injected specimen a delicate thread may be often traced passing into a plasmodial bud which has just become vascu- larised. In the larger divisions the vessels lie in the axis; arteries and veins run side by side, the latter being distinguished by their thinner walls and larger calibre. In the terminal villi capillaries alone are found ; they are placed for the most part immediately beneath the epi- thelium, where they run a tortuous course and anastomose freely. They form wide channels in which five or six red corpuscles can lie abreast, and they occupy such a large extent of the stroma that the villus appears to be as full of blood as a soaked sponge. The capil- lary walls are formed of a single layer of delicate endothelium, and nothing intervenes between them and the maternal blood except the chorionic epithelium. 2'he Maternal Elements of the Place^ita.— The part played by the serotina in the develop- ment of the placenta is an important one. In the first place, it is the medium through which the maternal circulation, throtigh the inter- villous spaces, becomes established ; and in the second place, it serves to attach the foetal elements firmly to the uterine wall. The chorionic villi arc the principal agents in the production of the changes which result in the establishment of the intervillous circu- lation. It will be remem))ered that in the seven days' ovum described by Leopold some of the villi had penetrated the decidua. During Fig. 7.—Section throufjli a normal sevPii months' placenta, in situ. (After Minot.) Am., amnion; Cho., chorion; Vi., primary villus, vessels injected ; vi,, smaller villi; Vc, maternal vein opening into intervillous spaces; D, decidua serotina; Mc, muscular wall of uterus. (Playiair.) the second month this process goes on exten- sively in the serotina; the villi do not enter the glands, as was once supposed, but penetrate the tissues by literally eating their way through. Around the invading buds the decidual cells necrose and become absorbed, the foetal epiblast appearing to exert some potent intl\ience upon them. The jjlasmodial buds act as pioneers, and numbers of them may be seen embedded in the decidua in advance of the villi. In its new position each bud is vascularised in the manner already indicated, and the new villus in its turn