FRACTURES 344 The diagnosis of a fracture depends upon signs which can be verified by the surgeon, and symptoms which require the descriptive powers of the patient for their elucidation. The dia- gnosis of a fracture is often easy, but there are many cases in which it can only be made with the very greatest difficulty, and there are some in which the nature of the injury remains for ever undetermined, or is ascertained so late that the surgeon is held blameworthy. Methods of Examination.—A routine method of examination should therefore be adopted in every case in which there is a suspicion of fracture, and although the symptoms are less trustworthy guides than the signs, they should be determined first by questioning the patient, who will thus become accustomed to the sur- geon's examination. Pain and loss of power in the limb are the two chief symptoms of fracture of a long bone, although both may be fallacious. Pain is an important symptom if it can be shown to attain a maximum over a given spot directly after an injury, and if the same point of maxi- mum pain is indicated when the bone is fixed above and pressure is made upon the shaft at some distance below the seat of injury. But the sudden onset of localised pain is a character- istic feature of some forms of acute inflammation of bone. On the other hand, absence of pain in a case of undoubted fracture raises a suspicion of chronic alcoholism (when a surgeon is on his guard for the appearance of delirium tremens or traumatic delirium), or it points to locomotor ataxy or other disease of the central nervous system. The loss of power over the limb is often a well-marked symptom of fracture, but it is absent in cases of impacted fracture, or when only one of a pair of bones is broken in the arm or leg. A simple contusion, however, especially over the hip, often causes great loss of function, though the impairment is only temporary. The signs of fracture are much more im- portant than the symptoms. They should be elicited methodically, taking care to give the patient the least possible pain. The examina- tion should be made at the earliest opportunity before the swelling has obscured the landmarks, and the least painful part of the examination should be undertaken first. In every case the injured part should be exposed completely, that the surgeon may examine it thoroughly, and it should be compared carefully with the cor- responding part upon the opposite side. The examination should be continued until the surgeon has decided upon the diagnosis, for diagnosis in fractures is the key to successful treatment. In every case, too, care must be taken not to overlook other injuries when a fracture has been detected, especially in cases near a joint, where a dislocation may complicate the fracture. And even though a fracture is simple when it is first seen, the ends of the bone and the skin should be examined to ascertain whether it is likely to become compound. Every fracture is associated with some deformity of the broken bone, although the deformity may be masked by the thickness of the overlying tissues, as in the hip, or by the support obtained from neighbouring bones, as in the ribs, the ulna, the radius, and the fibula. In fissured fractures the deformity is so slight that it may pass unnoticed. Most fractures are associated with some alteration in the length of the injured bones, which become shortened, but the alteration may be so slight as to fall within the limits of error or of natural development. Every fracture of a long bone, therefore, must be compared care- fully with the sound side by means of a tape measure, taking care to measure from similar bony jjoints on the two sides. Abnormal mobility in the shaft of a bone is a certain sign of fracture, but it is wanting in greenstick, curved, and fissured fractures as well as in the great group of impacted fractures. Crepitus, or the sensation produced when the two ends of a recently broken bone rub against each other, is diagnostic of a fractiire; but it may be mistaken by the inexperienced for the creaking of a tendon moving in an inflamed sheath, as in tenosynovitis; for the rustling of melon-seed bodies in a bursa or ganglion; for the slight stickiness which accompanies eff'usion into joints; for collections of blood containing blood-clots; and for the crackling of emphysema. There is no crepitus when the ends of the bone are widely separated, as in fractured patella, when there is impaction, or when a mass of tissue intervenes between the two fragments. Although crepitus, felt by an experienced person, is a certain sign of fracture, it is always un- desirable to obtain it by rubbing the ends of the bone together. The aggregate of the other signs is usually sufficient to determine the nature of the injury, and the production of crepitus is very painful to the patient; besides, it may do harm to the surrounding tissues and even to the ends of the bones themselves. An extensive ecchymosis, first seen some days after the injury, and the appearance at a still later date of the lump due to callus, are valuable aids to diagnosis in some very obscure cases, as in fractures about the hip and shoulder, and in greenstick fractures. Process of Repair.—The pathology of the repair of fractures is difficult, because the details have not yet been completely investi- gated. The method differs somewhat in aseptic and in septic fractures. Aseptic or simple fractures are repaired by callus, a material produced by the fibrous tissues in the immediate neighbourhood of bone, and therefore derived from the bone itself, from periosteum, and from the surrounding connective tissues. The injury which produces the fracture tears all the soft