FAVUS 261 Wlien, on the other hand, a section of a sciitulum is examined, while the margin is found to con- sist mainly of the long filaments, in the centre the shorter elements or " spores" are more numerous. Pressing down of the cover-glass on the ordinai'y specimen leads to separation of the individual elements, and such preparations show a misleading number of spores. The affected hairs contain long tubes of fungus, which usually completely obliterate all the internal structure of the hair, and their out- sides are often sheathed with a felt-work of fungus, in which the joints are shorter than those inside. The fungus may be stained by a number of methods, the best of which is Morris's modifica- tion of Gram's method. If it is desired to stain it in the hair, the hair should first be well washed in ether to remove all grease. The ether should not be allowed to evaporate, but should be washed off by alcohol and spirit, as otherwise it leaves a thin coating of fat on the surface of the hair, through which the stains do not easily penetrate. The stain used is the oixlinary saturated solution of gentian violet in anilin water, and in this the hairs must remain at least half an hour. They are then placed into Gram's solution of iodine (iod. 1, pot. iod. 2, water 300 parts), in which they remain for three minutes. They should then be placed on a slide, firmly dried with blotting-paper, and a drop of pure anilin, containing enough iodine to give the solution a dark mahogany colour, placed over them. After washing in this for a few minutes the drop is washed off with pure anilin, which is in its turn washed off by xylol, and the specimen is then mounted in Canada balsam. Any fungus which is adherent to the outside of the hair is brilliantly stained, but the staining of the fungus within the hair is usually very irregular. The explanation of this probably is that the outside of the hair is so little diseased that it is only with difiiculty that any of the stain makes its way into the interior of the hair. Sections of scutula stain perfectly with this method. The amount of investigation to which the fungus of the disease has recently beeir sub- jected has led to the recognition of several varieties, for descriptions of which the works of (|)uincke and Neebe must be consulted. As yet their recognition has proved of little practical value. Diagnosis.—In a well-marked case this is very easy. In no other disease are regularly shaped structures like the scutula produced, and consequently if they are present the nature of the case admits of no doubt. When they are not present in this typical form, the dry crumbling character and the bright sulphur yellow colour of the scales are very character- istic. The mousy odour which is so familiar in connection witli the disease is due to the de- composition of dead fungus, and a somewhat similar odour is often noted in other diseases when the excretions are decomposing. Any doubt is set at rest by the examination of a portion of the crust under the microscope. If, as in any well-cared-for case, no crusts or scales are present, the diagnosis must be made from the examination of the hairs, when the long tubes of the fungus will be recognised in their interiors. Without this examination there might be some confusion with seborrha-a, but it will only be in very rare instances that the old plan of leaving a case untreated for a time to watch for the development of scutula is I'equired. Prognosis.—The prognosis of an untreated case is as bad as it is possible to be. There is absolutely no prospect, as there is in ringworm, of the disease dying out, and it will last until every hair on the scalp has been destroyed. In one case which came under the notice of the writer the disease had lasted no less than fifty years. In those countries where it is prevalent the disease thus becomes a matter deserving of the serious consideration of the civil authorities. Children with favus are rightly refused ad- mission to any school, and belonging as they usually do to the lowest classes, they grow up altogether without education, and undoubtedly tend to drift into the criminal ranks. It is clearly the duty of the authorities to take the matter in hand and to take steps to stamp out the disease. Though not dangerous to life it is more dangerous to society than many diseases which are. The presently existing hospitals and dispensaries are quite unable adetjuately to cope with the disease; any treatment requires either months of treatment or the use of an apparatus expensive in the first instance and requiring slvilled knowledge to work it. It is hardly too much to say that a case occurring in the lower classes, and only irregularly attending some institution, is to all intents and purposes incurable. Treatment.—The treatment of any disease where the cause is so definitely known as in favus is exceedingly easy in theory. All that has to be done is to destroy the parasite and the thing is done. Unfortunately we are unacquainted with any i-emedy which will cause the destruction of the fungus in the depths of the follicles without at the same time destroying- the skin. Antiseptics of various kinds are therefore of only limited value; they prevent the spread of the disease on the surface, but they do not ciu-e the disease. Of the many in general use jjerhaps the first place should be accoi'ded to the salts of copper and mercury. A good cheap ointment can be made by mixing together one drachm of sulphate of copper and one ounce of lard. The oleate of copper is rather more efficacioxis and much more ex- pensive. Of the mercury salts probably the