GLANDERS (FARCY) 460 fresh air, light, and good food will do more than any drug. Mallein has been claimed to be beneficial in the treatment of horses. XL Peevention.—As soon as it has been determined that glanders exists in a stable, all affected animals should be killed, and others which have been exposed should be isolated until they have been tested with mallein. The slaughtered animals should not be skinned, but put out of harm's way as soon as possible. Where the bodies cannot be rendered innocuous by boiling, destruction with chemicals, or fire, they should be buried at a spot some distance from the stable or house. The grave should be deep enough to allow of the cadaver being covered by a layer of soil at least 3 feet deep. As soon as a positive diagnosis has been arrived at it should, if possible, be determined how long the symptoms have existed, and if animals from other parts have been exposed to the infection. Where this is the case the animals should be inspected and watched. Persons who have to do with glandered or suspected animals should be thoroughly warned regarding the danger to which they are exposed. The infected stable should be closed to other horses and to every person outside of those directly concerned. Stablemen attending diseased animals should keep away from healthy ones. Suspicious animals should be examined every two weeks by a competent veterinarian, and though they may be worked as long as they show no symptoms, they should be kept apart from the unexposed, and watched for 3-6 months. The harness, etc., used by such animals should be reserved for their use alone. Where glanders has existed, the stables, harness, blankets, saddles, waggon-poles or shafts, buckets, drink- ing-troughs, mangers, etc., should be thoroughly disinfected. The stables should be cleaned out and aired, the walls and wood-work white- washed. Sulphur may be burned (20 grams per cubic meter space) or chlorine evolved (add 10 grams of hydrochloric acid to 5 grams fresh chloride of lime for each cubic meter), and allowed to act for 8 hours, all apertures in the stable being sealed. Sulphur should not be used when chloride of lime is applied. Where the floor is bad, and the ground under it liable to have become soiled with the discharges of sick animals, the floor should be removed, as also the surface soil beneath, lime being freely scattered upon the spot. Where floors are good they may be washed with milk of lime or carbolic acid solution. Bits, chains, and metal articles may be sterilised over a fire, or scrubbed with boiling water and carbolic acid solution; articles having no especial value should be burned. Harness and leather articles may be washed with hot soda solution (50 grams soda to 10 litres water) or with hot soap- suds, being afterwards dried and rubbed with carbolised oil. Saddles, etc., which will not bear such treatment may be exposed to sulphur or formalin vapours. From this and what has been said with regard to the mode of spread of the disease, other precautionary measures will suggest themselves in particular cases. Naturally personal measures are indicated for those who are exposed, the hands, shoes, or soiled clothing being disinfected with carbolic acid, etc., when soiled. The possibility of a glandered horse being used for the production of an anti-diphtheritic serum has been suggested as a source of danger to man, but BonhofF (1897) finds that the 0"5 per cent carbolic acid added to such serum kills off the bacilli in 2-4 hours. Glands. See Bronchi, Bronchial Glands; Lymphatic System ; Physiology, Blood {Hwmo- lytic Organs) ; etc. etc. Glandulae Concatenatas. Bee Syphilis {Secondary). Gland ulae Suprarenales. See Adrenal Glands. GiandulaeThyroideae. Thyroid Gland (Anatomy and Physiology). Glandular Fever. Clinical Features .... 460 Diagnosis ...... 461 Pati-iology ...... 461 Treatment ...... 461 Glandular fever is an acute infectious fever characterised by inflammation, apparently primary, of lymphatic glands, beginning in the deep cervical group and sometimes limited to it, and by constipation. The epidemic nature of the disease was first maintained by PfeifFer in 1889, and German writers frequently refer to it as Pfeiifer's " Driisenfieber." The disease attacks children especially, and when introduced into a household few between the ages of six months and thirteen years escape; adults, though not altogether immune, appear to contract the disease much less readily. The incubation period varies from five to ten days, but the most usual period is seven days. The onset is usually quite sudden, the first complaint being of pain in the neck and head- ache. The pain is aggravated by movement and the head is held stiflly. It will now be found that the temperature is raised (101° to 103° F.), that the face is flushed, the tongue furred, and that there is deep-seated tenderness in the neck, especially in the anterior triangle, though no enlargement of glands may be per- ceptible. In many cases abdominal pain is an early symptom, and there may be tenderness on deep pressure. Enlargement of the liver can be made out in most cases, and of the spleen in some. There is no jaundice. The child refuses food, and suffers from nausea or