GROIN, THE 525 femoral or crural canal — contains lymphatic vessels and a gland, and is the route wliich a femoral hernia takes in its journey from the abdomen to the thigh. The lymphatic glands in the region of the groin are numerous and important, for when they are enlarged, as they often are, as the result of conditions about to be mentioned, they increase the difficulties attending the diagnosis of tumours in this region. The following is Sir Fredericit Treves' lucid description of them :— " They are divided into a superficial and deep set. Tlie superficial set, averaging from ten to fifteen glands, is arranged in two clusters, one parallel and close to Poupart's ligament (the horizontal series), the other parallel and close to the long saphenous vein (the vertical series). The deep set, about four in number, is placed along the femoral vein, and occupies the crural canal. " The inguinal glands receive the following lymphatics :—• " Sitperficial vessels of lower limb = vertical set of superficial glands. " Sujxrjicial vessels of lower half of abdomen = middle glands of horizontal set. " Superficial vessels from outer surface of buttock = external glands of horizontal set. " From inner surface of buttock = internal glands of horizontal set (a few of these vessels go to the vertical glands). " Superficial vessels fi-om external (lenitals = horizontal glands, some few going to vertical set. ^^Superficial vessels of perineum = vertical set. " Z'ee/) lymphatics of lower limb = dee'p set of glands. " The lymphatics that accompany the obtur- ator, gluteal, and sciatic arteries, and the deep vessels of the penis, pass to the pelvis and have no concern with the inguinal glands." Scarpa's triangle, which forms the lower portion of the groin, has for its base Poupart's ligament; its outer side, the sartorius muscle ; its inner side, the inner border of the adductor longus; and its chief contents are the femoral artery and vein with tlieir branches, including the origin of the profunda femoris artery and vein, the anterior crural nerve, and the ter- mination of the internal saphenous vein. Flexion of the thigh is a common condition, which may be temporary or permanent, partial or complete. In some cases it may be I'egarded as being a symptom and in others the result of disease. Though it will be fully dealt with in the article on " Diseases of the Hip-Joint," it may be mentioned in this place that temporary flexion of the thigh is often a symptom of value in the diagnosis of some of the diseases of the groin. It may be regarded as being Nature's method of diminishing pain about the hip-joint. Flexion of the thigh, especially when combined with adduction and rotation inwards, relaxes the fascia lata, Poupart's ligament, and the abdo- minal muscles and fascia, and in consequence the pain of such conditions as synovites of tlie iiip-joint and strangulated inguinal or femoral hernia is relieved by reducing the pressure and allowing more room for the swelling. Extension of a flexed hip-joint should be carried out with caution, for cases are on record in which, during the opei'ation, the skin and subcutaneous tissues were ruptured. II. Diseases of the Groin Skin diseases, as they affect the groin, merit no special attention ; it may be noted, however, that pruritus genitalium not infrequently spreads from the scrotum or the labia to tiie groin, especially in very stout individuals. For further particulars about this and other afl'ections of the skin the articles dealing with those sub- jects may be consulted. Affections of the Lymphatic Glands.—Enlarge- ment of the inguinal lymphatic glands is of frequent occurrence, the commonest causes being sepsis, tuberculosis, and syphilis. In most people, especially in males, and even in infants, lymphatic glands of the horizontal series are often found to be enlarged, as the result of frequent and trivial attacks of balanitis, or in consequence of the irritation of smegma pre- putii. 1. Septic inflammation of the glands is due, in the first instance, to the presence of a septic area in one of the regions—noted above—from which lymphatic vessels pass to one of the sets of lymphatic glands in the groin. Lymphan- gitis, of necessity, precedes this condition; its symptoms are—when the superficial lymphatics are affected—the presence of tender and some- what cord-like, minute, red streaks in the situa- tion of the lymphatic vessels, accompanied by some cellulitis of the adjacent tissues, which have an appearance almost indistinguishable from erysipelas. " Phlebitis closely resembles lymphangitis in its symptoms ; a thrombosed vein forms a deeper-seated coarser cord than a similarly affected lymph vessel, the cutaneous redness is not so vivid, the pain is less acute, the general fever is not so intense, and the tendency to glandular involvement is less." Inflanunation of the deej) lymphatics is not easily differentiated from ordinary cellulitis. The septic area from which the lymphatic vessels pass should be carefully sought for—a point which is often overlooked—and treated on general principles. If this lesion is detected early and efficiently treated, suppuration in the lymphatic glands may be prevented. If, how- ever, suppuration has occurred, the glands should be laid freely open and stuffed with sterilised gauze. More harm than good may be done by making too small an incision in the gland, and the timid surgeon is apt to be over-cautious when operating upon glands in close proximity to large and important blood-vessels. The incision