37 ECZEMA (gr. ii. to the jj.) in distilled water. When the discharge has ceased the surface will have a red, glazed appearance. This is merely a tem- porary surface, and will be certainly thrown off. Begin gentle stimulating treatment. Mild sul- phur liniment is excellent, such as sulphur gr. X., ol. olivarum, aqufe calcis AVhen the surface becomes dry, pale, and rough, treat as in type 1. Type 3. The i? debilitated, iKrhaps alcoholic; the surface of the scalp is acutely suppurating in places, and hoggy and oedematous in others. Treatment.—Here astringent lotions or porous ointments are indicated, and not fatty oint- ments. As soon as the scabs have set and hardened, and the tissues are sufficiently con- tracted, the head must be washed with the spirit solution of soap, and stimulating ointment treatment begun. The ointments are all the better for being a little porous in these cases, and this is effected by the addition of 3j- or more of calamine or zinc oxide to the gj. If sulphur and salicylic acid in combination fail, pyrogallol (grs. v.-x. to %].) should be tried. Type 4. 2Vie eczema is associated ivith a scalp wound. Treatment.—Drying and astringent treatment is very important here. Lassar's paste (see p. 33) with 2 per cent salicylic acid is an ex- cellent thing to begin with, and should be continued till the surface is firm and dry, when soft fatty ointments may be employed as re- commended in type 1. Face (smooth parts).—Type 1. The patient is a teething child,; the surface of the frn-ehead and cheeks is thin, red, and moist, the cuticle having pjoor j>rotective qualities. Treatment.—The nerve irritation occasioned by the cutting of the teeth is apt to aggravate the eczema. Care must be taken to cut off all sources of reflex irritation, as far as possible. The food must be human or cow's milk, the latter suitably diluted according to the age of the child. Locally the skin must be screened from the air. Unna's zinc ichthyol salve muslin is of great value here. It has, however, very little astringent action. If the parts remain moist in spite of its use, astringent lotions must be applied in compress form. When the sur- face is dry a slightly stimulating ointment containing sulphur (grs. x.) and tar (ol. rusci m^x.) sliould be smeared many times a day over the whole face. Typje 2. The face of a child is covered, with ptis scabs, seated on a moist and inflamed s/cin. Treatment.—Purulent eczema is very common in children. Lassar's paste, with 1-2 per cent of salicylic acid, or some similar antiseptic porous ointment, is indicated. When the sur- face is dry employ more stimulating ointments or lotions. An excellent preparation for final treatment is tar-calamine lotion. Type 3. The 2Mtient is a highly neurotic adult person, generally of the male sex. The surface is dry, but hot, red, and much swollen, espjecially ahout the eyes, so as to prevent their being opened. The irritation is severe, in some cases intolerable, p)roducing great mental excitement. The symp)- toms are subject to sudden variations, either in the direction of amelioration or of exacerbation. Treatment.—This is a peculiar type of eczema, in which there exists an extraordinary sensitive- ness of the neuro - capillary apparatus. We know nothing as to the actual determining cause. In tlie treatment of this type all active local remedies are contra - indicated. Bland creamy ointments are all that are required locally in the early stage. A liniment of olive oil and lime water, with a little zinc oxide or calamine to thicken it, generally answers well. The patient must be confined to one room, and even kept in bed if the symptoms are very severe. The diet during the stormy period must be purely of milk. A 5-grain Plummer's pill may be administered at the outset, or, as Malcolm Morris prefers, the wine of antimony in 5-drop doses repeated half-hourly till the force of the pulse begins to abate. Such de- pressing remedies are only to be used at the height of the nerve storm. With the subsid- ence of the symptoms a more liberal diet may be allowed, but no red meat and no alcohol. Before the patient leaves his room, astringent lotions must take the place of the ointment for the purpose of hardening the surface so as to enable it to resist wind and sunshine. This form of eczema indicates nerve fatigue, and is apt to occiu- when the mental output is greater than the cerebral intake of nutriment. The ordinary diet of the patient should be rich in phosphates. If he is also gouty he should be encouraged to partake of such vegetables as spinach and Brussels sprouts. While nerve tonics are advisable, it must not be forgotten that the best of restoratives are change of air and scene. Dry exhilarating mountain air is much to be preferred to sea-level climates; maritime localities, in fact, are liable to prove injurious. Type 4. The piatient is a scrofulous child witli dry, well-defined jictches of eczema situated at the Junction of skin and mucous membrane. Treatment.—This is the variety which L^nna names " tubercular eczema." It tends to develop in skins of a scrofulous type (see p. 28), and is remarkably rebellious to treatment. The most satisfactory method in the writer's experience is hy means of the plaster muslins, of which the carbol-merciu-y and the tar salicylic plasters are to be highly recommended. Hairy Regions of the Face.—Eczema of those portions of the face covered hy the beard and whiskers has to be distinguished from sycosis, tinea barbaj, and impetigo. Sycosis is essentially a follicular and pcri-follicular inflammation of