63 ELECTRICITY each produces. The moistened electrode should be stroked over the skin of the affected part, or, if two limbs require treatment, each may be placed with one electrode in a separate pan of warm water, and the current reversed once or twice a second ; rapidly-interrupted galvanism pro- duces no contractions when U.D. is established. This is very conveniently done by an automatic current reverser attached to the battery, and the method is especially suitable for young- children with infantile paralysis, as, placed with their backs to the operator and the battery, they are much less frightened, the current being turned on cell by cell, with intermittent reversals. The strength of current required will vary from 5 to 15 milliamperes, and tjuite young children will bear reversals of 10 milliamperes if given by this method. In testing children satisfactory results are often difficult to get without using an anccsthetic. On the face much weaker currents must be used than on the limbs; 3 m.a. is usually all that can be borne at first, which may be increased to 5 later. On account of the sensitiveness of the skin of the face the anode may be used, as it causes less pain. Galvanism to the face and head are also objectionable on account of the flashes of light in the eyes and the unpleasant metallic taste produced in the mouth. The use of the anode is, however, useful in ti'igeminal neuralgia with jjainful, tender spots. Care should be taken in treating the face or head not to reverse or suddenly interrupt the current when cur- rents of more than 10 m.a. are being used, as the sudden shock might be dangerous. In treating sciatica the patient should sit on one moist pad, usually the anode, and the other electrode is best put in a pan of warm water, in which the foot is placed. The current is then gradually turned on to give at least 20 milliamperes for ten or fifteen minutes. Some patients can bear 30 to 40 milliamperes, or even more. The current must be gradually reduced at the end of the sitting to avoid a shock, and the patient should lift the foot out of the water slowly, leaving the heel last. The choice of pole makes little difference, but the anode should be placed on the more sensitive skin. Owing to the diffusion of current in all directions there is no special virtue in so-called ascending or de- scending currents. Sciatica is almost invariably relieved for some hours by this treatment, and cure is fairly common, even in cases which have resisted treatment by rest and drugs for months. In severe cases combined farad ism and galvanism may be used with advantage. Galvanism is best applied daily, and the current should be as strong as tlie patient can conveniently bear. Small batteries ai'e worse than useless. In the treatment of peripheral neuritis, on account of the inflamed nerves, galvanism should not be used until the tenderness has mostly disappeared. Prognosis cannot be attempted until there has been time for the development of R.D. in the nerve and nuiscle. Considei'able paralysis may be present, with only diminished reactions to faradism and galvanism in both nerve and muscle; such cases usually show, under treat- ment, commencing return of power by the tenth day, and almost complete recovery at the end of a month. If, at the end of the first week, there is no faradic or galvanic reaction in the nerve, with R.D. in the muscle, the case will be at least three months in recovering perfectly. If no faradic irritability appears in nerve or muscle Fig. tj. after three weeks the case is very severe, and will take six months or a year to recover. If, in spite of treatment, no faradic reaction appears after two months, recovery is hopeless. Marked improvement sometimes follows in severe cases of nerve iiijury or facial palsy which have been untreated and in statu quo for months, in which persistent treatment by galvanism has been started late. Indications of improvement will be seen in the contractions becoming stronger and brisker, and finally return of the faradic reactions. Such cases are, however, very liable to develop permanent contracture which will not yield to treatment. It is difficult to resist the belief that galvanism has some curative effect on the nerve as well as in maintaining muscular nutrition. Some of the severest cases of muscular wast- ing of the forearm are due to the too tight application of splints in fractui'es or sprains, causing severe diffuse neuritis, with muscular