511 GOUT dietetic treatment of contii-med <j,out. The following illustration may be given (Haig):— Breahfasi. 1 pint of milk. Bananas Apples Pears ^"d lihitum. Plums, fresli, dried or cooked Any other fresh fruit Lnnrli. Vegetable soup made with milk. Plate of potatoes (with butter, oil, or milk). 2 oz. cheese, eaten with potatoes and any other vegetables in season. Stewed fruit or tart. Fresh fruit. 1 pint of milk drunk during the meal. Dinner. Much as lunch. 1 pint of milk. 1 07,. cheese. A close analysis of this diet, which is recom- mended for a person in health, shows tliat it is not quite so simple as at first sight apparent, and while a diet for the gouty fi'amed on very similar lines is undoubtedly a very beneficial method of treatment in some cases, in others it is altogetlier misuitable. Popular belief, partly supported by medical opinion, condemns potatoes, but if used in moderation, and cooked and served with due precaution, there is no reason for prohibiting them, except in those special cases where they are definitely determined to be unsuited to the digestive capacity. When new and moist they are indigestible ; the best form is a well-boiled mealy potato in its skin, or tlie same put through a potato masher. A thoroughly well-baked potato is also good. When fried, or roasted in mutton dripping, or mashed with milk and butter, they are unsuitable in most cases. The other roots —turnips, carrots, parsnips, radislies, beetroots (also rich in sugar), artichokes, also cabbages, curly greens, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, and the green of cauliflower—should only be taken in small amount on account of their tendency to induce flatulence, etc. The following are more suitable: Spinach, flower of cauliflower, savoys, endive, lettuce, watercress, kale, leeks, onions, celery, cucumber, vegetable marrow, green peas, French beans. Asparagus has been condemned by some writers on accomit of the nucleins in the young shoots ; also tomatoes and sori-el on account of the acids present; but, as manj^ typically gouty subjects can partake of them freely, it is probable that these objections have only theoretical importance. The green vegetables above mentioned can be freely pai'taken of in the form of salads, pro- vided oily dressings and hard boiled eggs are avoided. Mushrooms and trufllcs and other fungi are quite permissible in small (quantities. The pulses (lentils, peas, beans, haricot beans) are not as a rule advisable, because it is not an easy matter to make the patient realise that their nutritive value is such that their use must influence markedly the amount and quality of the other articles consumed. With I'egard to jmddingK, the simpler the better. Milk puddings, such as rice, sago, semolina, ground rice, etc., should be made without eggs in many cases. Suet puddings of all kinds are as a class to be avoided, but if made with bread-crumbs in place of flour, well boiled and unaccompanied by a heavy sauce, they may be taken without prejudice. If custards and omelettes, sweet or savoury, are taken, the nutritive value of the eggs must be recognised. Jellies, blanc-manges, lemon sponge, and creams may be taken in very sparing amount, and, as with other foods, a wise discretion is necessary both by the physician and by the patient. Fruits of all kinds in themselves are permis- sible, but must Ije taken with caution, especially in later adult life, and it is well to bear in mind the old saying, " Fruit is golden in the morning, silver at midday, and lead at night." Much depends on the amount of sugar used in the cooking and the accessories used at table. Beverages To the confirmed gouty suljject the question of what he may drink is sometimes a more important one than that of wdiat he may eat. Alongside of this question there is another beai'ing on the time—I'elationship to meals—at which various liquids should or should not be taken. Thus, it is as a genei'al rule advisable to recommend alcoholic stimulants only to be taken with meals; in other cases the consump- tion of fluids, of a non-alcoholic nature, may be wisely restricted mainly to the intervals be- tween meals. Fluids may act prejudicially in two ways. In the first place, they may act injuriously in a mechanical way, i.e. by clogging the food elements, and at the same time dilut- ing the digestive fluids, favour abnormal de- composition of the proteids and also carbo- hydrates. And, secondly, they may, in virtue of a specific action, lead to faulty nitrogenous metabolism in the digestive tract, and second- arily, in the tissues. Like the question of diet it is impossible to lay down definite rules applicable to the disease. Everything depends on the age of the patient, his constitution, his previous history as to con- sumption of fluids of difterent kinds, the nature of the symptoms and the reaction of the tissues to various fluids. Specially is this so with the use of alcoholic stimulants. While there is no