199 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF tioii of the eyelids, the size and shape of the palpebral fissures, and any undue retraction (enophthalmos) or prominence (exophthalmos) of one or both eyes shonld be specially noticed. Abnormal movements of the eyes, such as nystagmus, or misdirection of one of the visual axes (sti'abismus), will, if marked, be evident at a glance. An inquiry into the symptoms complained of by the patient should now be made, and will often greatly aid tlie surgeon in diagnosis and treatment. 1. Defects in Vision.—The acuity of vision should be measured and recorded by the method given below. At the same time the range of accommodation and convergence should be noted. It should be ascertained if the iiro- longed use of the eyes upon near objects caused dimness, pain, or discomfort (asthenopia). In the case of any real lowering of the vision an attempt should be made to ascertain whether the defect is of recent origin, if its onset was sudden or gradual, and if at the time of the examination it is progressive or stationary. It must be borne in mind in this connection that a patient often suddenly, and by accident, discovers that one eye is defective, and usually dates the onset of the defect from that moment. 2. Dip/opiii.—xVlthougli this symptom is often referred by the patient to one eye it is always binocular, and due to deviation of one of the visual axes (squint) caused by partial or com- plete paralysis of an ocular muscle. In slight cases in which the deviation is not obvious the diplopia becomes a most valuable means of localising the lesion (see " Ocular Muscles"). Concomitant (non-paralytic) squint hardly ever leads to a complaint of diplopia. True mono- cular diplopia is so rare that it need not be considered. 3. Distortion of Objects {Jletamorphopsia).— This arises chiefly under three sets of conditions : —(1) Irregular astigmatism; (2) Exudation into the retina and choroid, especially in the macular region, interfering with the regular arrangement of the percipient elements ; (.3) Anomalies of accommodation causing errors of judgment as to the distance and size of objects. 4. Siihjective Sensations o f Light; Spots be fore the Eyes; Anomalies of Colour Vision.—A con- stant sensation of dazzling is sometimes associated with inHammatory lesions of the optic nerve or ri'tina due to morbid stimulation of the con- ducting or percipient apparatus. Similarly in the early stages of retinal detachment sudden flashes of light are often complained of. Sensa- tions of light (phosphenes) are readily produced by pressure on the eyeball behind the ora serrata, and are due to the same cause. They are referred to the part of the visual field corre- sponding to the area of retina stimulated ; thus pressure below will give a phosphene above, and so on. The peculiar subjective visual pheno- mena accompanying migraine depend probably on stimulation of the higher centres connected with vision. In opacities of the media the appearance of a dark object or objects may be complained of. If the object is described as moving or floating the opacity is in all likelihood situated in the vitreous. Real opacities visible with the ophthalmoscope must not be confused with the floating specks (muscai voJitantes) so often noticed by patients, especially if an evenly illuminated surface as the sky be looked at. These have no pathological significance. Blind areas on the visual field occur in many forms of eye diseases, constituting scotomata. If the blind area is noticed by the patient the scotoma is said to be positive, and is caused by a lesion situated in front of the percipient layer of the retina. A negative scotoma can only be dis- covered by the perimeter, and is due to loss of function in the percipient layer. The presence of rings of colour round lights is a well-known premonitory symptom of glaucoma. The occupation and habits of the patient have often an important relation to symptoms com- plained of or to actual diseases observed. Thus miners are liable to nystagmus, which has lieen attributed to strain of the ocular muscles pro- duced by their working in cramped attitudes and also to the defective illumination. Asthen- opia is much more frequently complained of by those who have to use the eyes for near work, as in reading, writing, sewing, etc. Poor and dirty surroundings predispose to all affections of the lids and conj unctivte, abuse of tobacco and alcohol frequently gives rise to impaired vision, the so-called toxic amblyopia, and workers ex- posed to the action of lead, carbon-bisulphide, and other substances may present ocular symp- toms as a manifestation of the poisoning of the system. A detailed Examination ejf each Eye should noiv he made.—The appendages of the eye—the lids and lachrymal apparatus—should first be examined. Secretion forming crusts on the edges of the eyelids indicates blepharitis, the only condition that can be mistaken for it being pediculi (ptheiriasis palpebrarum). Examination with the pocket lens would at once show the nits adhering to the lashes. The shape and position of the eyelids should then be noted. The margins maybe everted, "ectropion,"—or inverted, " entropion." The former may result from old blepharitis, chronic conjunctivitis in old people, or it may result from the traction of cicatrices on the face. Paralysis of the facial nerve causes a slight ectropion of the lower lid, and lachrymation owing to the pimetum falling away from the ej'e. Without any entropion being present a few lashes may be displaced so as to turn in and brush against the cornea. As such hairs are often very fine they are easily overlooked, unless a lens is used to examine the lid margin. Occa-