FRACTURES 361 and in a position to carry out the operation without any chance of suppuration, he had better not undertake it even in the most favourable case. Fracture of the Middle of the Shaft of the Femur.—Fracture of the middle of the shaft of the femur is a common accident both in adults and in children, either as a result of indirect violence or less frequently from blows upon the thigh or the passage of a wheel over it. The line of fracture is usually oblique from before backwards, so that the lower fragment passes behind the upper, which may be so sharp as to perforate the muscle and skin, thus rendering the injury compound. The obliquity may be so great as to make the line of fracture almost vertical, or it may become spiral by following the arrangement of the fibres of the osseous the world to get union without shortening when the fracture is very oblique or comminuted, and that a passive synovitis of the knee takes place in nearly every fractured thigh, even though the bone is broken in the upper or middle third. Treatment.—There are very many different methods of treating a simple fracture of the thigh, but here, as always, the simplest is the best, and the application of a long external splint with a weight extension will usually answer every purpose. In the first place, care must be taken in moving a person who has fractured his femur to prevent the simple frac- ture becoming compound, and this accident is the more likely to happen the nearer the injury is to the knee. The limb should therefore be immol)iliscd by securing a long external splint Fin. 10.—A iluiibli'-iiicliiiecl plane lor use in certiiin I'ractiues of tlie Iriiiur. tissue at this part of the femur. The union of various lines of fracture may detach large splinters of bone, though the fracture is not truly comminuted. On the other hand, green- stick, subperiosteal, and transverse fractures are by no means rare in children, and true comminuted fractures may occur in them, as a result of scurvy, without any appreciable violence. The signs of a fractured thigh are generally sufficiently distinct. There are pain, loss of power over the limb, abnormal movement at the painful spot, and crepitus, whilst the injured leg- is materially shorter than the sound one, and is very completely everted. In making compara- tive measurements of the length of the two limbs care must be taken that the patient is lying with his two iliac bones upon the same level, for inaccurate results will be obtained if the pelvis be tilted. The measurements are made from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the tip of the external malleolus. The diagnosis is often extremely difficult in children w ith incomplete fracture, and the nature of the injury is often entirely overlooked. The prog- nosis is good in simple fractures of the middle of the shaft of the femur, but the surgeon should remember that delayed and non-union are not uncommon, that it is the most difficult thing in and a shorter internal one to the injured limb. A lath or broom handle reaching from the arm- pit to the sole, with an umbrella or walking-stick along the inner side of the thigh, will answer this pm-pose temporarily, if they be secured with handkerchiefs tied round the groin, above the knee, below the knee, and at the ankle, the patient's legs being afterwards bound together for additional security. The patient will have to be kept in bed and nursed for several weeks, and he should therefore be placed at once upon a low and narrow iron bedstead provided with a good hair mattress, which is not likely to become uneven, and sand-bags should be placed ujDon either side of the leg until the surgeon is ready to reduce the fracture. The leg and thigh should now be carefully washed, dried, and dusted over with oxide of zinc. A piece of stout moleskin strapping, 2^- inches wide and about 5 feet in length, is doubled upon itself, and a square piece of wood, wliosc diameter is e(jual to the width of the ankle at the malleoli, is secured in the centre of the strapping by four drawing-pins. The strapping- is warmed and applied to either side of the leg, care being taken that it reaches two or three inches above the knee, and that it does not stick to the malleoli, for which purpose the lower six inches of strapping upon either side of the leg