222 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF rence in young mothers, are sufficient to render the diagnosis easy. CEdema.—ffidema of the lids is usually de- pendent upon some ascertainable local or general cause; occasionally, more especially in children, it occurs, ajjparently as a primary affection which disappears quickly without treatment. CEdema due to a distension of the lymphatic vessels of the lids and neighbouring parts may come and go, or remain and resist all treatment. Excision of portions of the hypertrophied subcutaneous tissue, or its destruction with the actual cautery, to allow the lids to be opened, may be tried. Chromidrosis is a rare condition in which the sweat glands at the lid margin secrete a blue pigment. This appearance can be readily simul- ated by hysterical patients. {See Skin, Dis- orders OF Glands.) Parasites. — Filaria Loa, a parasitic worm, has been removed from the lids of people who have lived in Old Calabar. The associated clinical features are described under Filariasis {Filaria loa). Affections of the Glands of the Lids Blepharitis Marginales, or Sycosis Tarsi.—■ The essential change in sycosis is an inflamma- tion of the follicles and glands of the lashes. In mild cases this causes an excess of secretion from the sebaceous and Meibomian glands, and leads to an exfoliation of the epithelium, which collects in dry scales on the skin between the lashes. When this secretion is removed the lids appear normal except for the congestion of their edges. In severe cases pustules form round the roots of the lashes; these discharge and leave small ulcers, each with a lash in its centre. The dis- charge collects and forms a crust on the lid margin, which mats the lashes together. When the lash is shed the ulcer heals, but as soon as a new lash appears the same process is repeated. If the disease is not arrested by treatment the follicles gradually atrophy and the lashes eventu- ally cease to grow, after passing through suc- cessive stages of degeneration. During the progress of the disease the skin around the lashes contracts, and the conjunctiva along the lid margin, which is now congested and thickened, becomes everted until it forms the lid border ; the lashes and lid border are then found on the outer surface of the lid at some distance from its apparent margin. As the jjuncta lacrimali are involved in the ectro- pion, epiphora occurs and keeps up the eversion by producing excoriation and contraction of the skin where the tears flow. In other cases, owing to atrophy of the glands, the lid margins con- tract, with the result that some of the stunted and distorted lashes are turned in towards the globe and irritate the cornea. Sycosis may follow any inflammation in which the conjunctiva is involved; often it dates from some febrile attack such as measles. Treatment.— In all cases the object of the routine treatment is to remove the discharge by washing it away with warm 2 per cent borax lotion, applied with absorbent cotton wool, and when the lids are absolutely clean, some form of mercurial ointment is rubbed into their margins, and this is repeated as often as the discharge collects. The strength of the oint- ment has to be varied according to the severity of the case; the indication being to employ as strong an ointment as the eye will bear without undue irritation. Ordinarily from half a grain to eight grains of the yellow or of the red oxide of mercury to an ounce of yellow vaseline is pre- scribed ; but in severe cases the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment may be tried. When the disease is slight the treatment may be entrusted to the patient or to his friends, but when the case is very bad the surgeon should attend to it himself at least once a day. After removing the crust, the lashes in the centre of the pustules and ulcers are pulled out, and the remaining ones are cut off and should be kept short until the healing is completed. The ulcers are then touched with a 1 or 2 per cent solution of nitrate of silver before the ointment is rubbed into the lid margin. A more rapid improvement will take place if the home attendant removes the crusts as often as they collect, and then applies the ointment. When the conjunctiva on the lid margin is thickened sufficiently to produce eversion of the puncta, it will be necessary to cauterise it on the ocular side of the punctiim with the galvanic cautery. The contraction produced by the scar will suffice to reinvert the puncta. Until this is effected the cure will never be complete. If the ectropion is more pronounced it will be necessary to apply Snellen's sutures to restore the border of the lid to its normal position. {See Ectropion, p. 226.) When the disease has caused many of the stunted lashes to be inverted, some form of entropion operation will have to be performed, either a Burow, if the lid is thin, or a Jaesche Arlt, if it is thickened. {See Entropion, p. 225.) In all cases constant attention will either diminish or cure the affection, but if this care is not continued for some time after the cure appears to be completed a relapse is likely to occur; also if the glasses, which correct the error of refraction that almost invariably is present, are not worn, either constantly or at least during near work, the sycosis will recur. Hordeolum, or Stye.—An acute suppurative inflammation of the sebaceous glands in con- nection with the roots of the lashes or of a Meibomian gland constitutes, respectively, an external and an internal stye. They may occur after a general febrile attack, such as measles or chicken-pox, or after a muco-purulent ophthal- mia or other conjunctival affection, or without any obvious cause. The heat and discomfort