212 EYEBALL, INJURIES OF although clinically such cases are very often, but, as pointed out by Schdbl, quite erroneously termed irido-choroiditis. On excision for corneal stab wound I have found the coats of the eye transfixed in the posterior segment. Explora- tion of the wound by means of a probe is here of course quite inadmissible, and we must judge of its depth by the state of the vision, the opacity of the lens, the presence or absence of vitreous in the wound, and of blood or exudation in the vitreous. Corneal wounds are usually linear and radial, but may be flap-like or triangular, T-shaped, Y-shaped, or irregular; the edges may lie in perfect apposition or overlap, or be kept apart by prolapsed iris, and there may be greyish infiltration for a little distance around. A two- pronged fork will often give rise to a double puncture. The capsule of the lens is very often injured in corneal wounds, and this is always followed by traumatic cataract, which if the capsular wound is large undergoes spontaneous absorption. When the wound in the capsule is a mere puncture it may become sealed up, and the progress of the cataract is arrested. Scleral wounds are particularly serious when situated in the ciliary region, which corresponds to the sclerotic for one-quarter of an inch from the clear cornea, and has well been termed the " dangerous zone." Such wounds often lead to shrinking of the injured eye and sympathetic disease of the other. Unfortunately this is the region of the sclerotic most exjDosed to injury, and wounds farther back are comparatively uncommon. One or more eyelashes not infrequently get drawn into the anterior chamber in penetrating wounds of the cornea, and a great many cases are on record. See paper by Landmann (Graefe's Archives, xxviii. 2) with full references. They usually lie flat on the iris, but may have one end fast in the iris and the other free in the aqueous; they are rarely seen till the eye has recovered from the accident, and even then are i-eadily overlooked. If some of the cells of the root sheath accompany the lash, these proliferate and form an epithelial pearl growth; see Rock- liflPe, and Cross and Treacher Collins, the latter with full list of cases. These pearl growths take nearly twelve months to attain the size of a split pea, they resemble a little mass of camphor with the lash protruding fi-om it, and should be removed. Apart from the occasional occurrence of these growths, little if any harm results to the eye from intrusion of a cilium; the writer had a case where a lash had remained in the anterior chamber for twenty years, the lens was absorbed, and the finest type could be read with a suitable glass. Schwartz describes cases in which lashes had given rise to the occurrence of giant cells. Penetrating corneal wounds also in some cases give rise to the formation of serous cysts in the angle of the anterior chamber, and according to Eversbusch these are due to inversion of the ligamentum pectinatum and endothelial lining of the iris angle, with accumulation of aqueous in the pouch thus produced. They are of very slow growth, but if not removed will certainly lead to destruction of the eye from increased tension. Treatment of direct Penetrating Wounds.— Wounds in the ciliary region with loss of vitre- ous, and with or without injury of the lens, require excision of the eyeball, and this should be done before the onset of panophthalmitis, as fatal purulent meningitis sometimes attends the operation in this condition. Wounds of the sclerotic behind the dangerous zone may be treated by conjunctival sutures as noted on page 211, and a good result as far as appear- ance is often obtained, but detachment of the retina and total loss of sight is very common in all scleral wounds, and unless there is a prospect of saving some useful amount of sight, primary enucleation is to be preferred. Generally speak- ing, if the eye has not quietened down after a month, or at latest six weeks after the injury, further delay is unjustifiable, and excision is called for, as sympathetic disease is apt to come on at this time. Clean cut wounds of the cornea without prolapse of the iris heal up quickly and satisfactorily by the use of a compress wrung out of the perchloride lotion, and kept in position by a roller bandage. When in the course of a few days the anterior has reformed, atropine is used thrice a day till all injection of the eye has disappeai'ed. When prolapse of the iris has taken place no attempt should be made to reduce it, as it is difficult to do, and may introduce septic matter into the eye. In recent cases there is no diificuity in seizing the pro- lapsed iris with curved iris forceps, laid with the blades parallel to the corneal wound, drawing- it well forward and snipping it off with scissors. This will have the effect of freeing the iris at both lips of the wound, and leaving a coloboma almost as regular as after an ordinary iridectomy. If some days have elapsed we must endeavour by the use of a fine silver probe or spatula to break down and separate the adhesions of the iris along the whole extent of the corneal wound and at both lips, and then draw out and excise the iris. The recovery largely depends upon the successful accomplishment of this procedure. If the lens has been wounded it is best left alone, to be spontaneously absorbed or dealt with as mentioned on page 211. If purulent hyalitis supervene, indicated by the ominous yellow reflex behind the lens, the eye is doomed and should be excised, but if panophthalmitis is present it is safer to perform the operation of evisceration, i.e. removal of the cornea and sur- rounding ring of sclerotic, and clearing out all the contents of the eyeball with a Volkmann's spoon.