FEACTURES 364 A certain amount of risk attends the immediate treatment of even a simple fracture by this method, and many surgeons therefore prefer to keep the patient in bed until the swelling has subsided before applying a plaster splint. The foot and leg must be kept steady and in a proper position for a week or more, and this is best effected by a back splint and suspension of the leg. For this purpose a well-padded metal back splint with a rectangular foot-piece is selected (Fig. 21). It should be sufficiently long to reach as high as the middle of the thigh, and broad enough to prevent any compression of the Fio. 21.—Fractured leg treated by a back splint with side splints, the limb being swung in a cradle. leg by the side splints and bandage. The splint must be bent to an obtuse angle opposite the knee to keep the joint in slight flexion, and thus to relax the muscles of the calf. The splint should be provided with two cross-pieces with perforations of sufficient width to allow an ordinary leather rug-strap to pass tlirough the hole on each side, one cross-piece being situated just above the foot-piece, the other immediately below the knee. Two well-padded, straight wooden splints are also obtained, long enough to reach from the foot-piece to the knee, and about four inches in width. Provided with this apparatus, some small pads, a roll of strapping, bandages, safety-pins, a pair of rug straps, a "cradle," webbing straps with buckles, and a teacupful of starch paste, the surgeon proceeds to set the broken leg. The whole limb is shaved if necessary, and is thoroughly but gently washed with warm soap and water; it is dried and is dusted over with oxide of zinc. It is then raised from the bed by the surgeon, who takes a firm hold of the foot and of the calf, whilst an assistant slips the splint beneath it. The leg is then lowered on to the splint, the assistant putting a small pad beneath the tendo Achillis to prevent any pressure upon the heel. The foot is secured to the foot-piece by a roller bandage, one end of which is pinned into the padding on the inner side of the splint. The bandage is then carried between the padded foot-piece and the sole of the foot to the outer side, thence across the foot, round the back of the foot-piece, and again round the foot with a reverse. The surgeon now takes the foot-piece to which the foot is attached in his hands, whilst the assistant steadies the leg. Gentle traction is then made upon the foot until the displacement is reduced at the seat of fracture, and until the two fragments of the tibia are brought into good apposition. The foot and the lower fragment are also moved until the inner edge of the patella, the inner ankle, and the inner side of the great toe are in the same vertical plane when the patella looks, directly upwards. A strip of adhesive plaster two inches wide is then carried spirally round the leg and splint just above the malleoli, a similar piece just below the knee, and a third piece round the thigh. A few turns of bandage with re- verses are then put on at each of these places, leaving the fracture and the knee unbandaged, and a little starch paste is brushed over the bandage's to keep them in posi- tion. The two lateral splints are applied to the leg and are kept in place by webbing straps, the cradle is put over the limb, and the splint is slung to it by the straps, so that it swings just clear of the bed. Professor Chiene gives the following directions for making an improvised box splint when the more elaborate form here described is not avail- able :—" Take two flat pieces of wood about half an inch thick, and between four and five inches broad, and long enough to reach from a little above the knee-joint to beyond the heel. A large sheet folded so that its breadth may be equal to the length of the splint is then pre- pared, and the splints are rolled up in it towards, one another, beginning with one at either end of the sheet. Go on folding until the distance between the two splints, when vertical, may, along with a little padding, be just sufficient to enclose the limb. Pad well, and fix in position with three slip knots. Keep the foot at right angles to the long axis of the limb by means of elastic or a bandage, and place the leg upon a pillow. In oblique fractures of the tibia exten- sion may be required to prevent shortening. In compound fractures it may be necessary to mould a splint to the leg, and rabbit wire netting folded into layers, to give it sufficient stability^ with an old blanket as padding, can be fashioned into an excellent splint accurately fitting the injured limb." When a box splint is used the surgeon must carefully watch the limb to see that the heel as