456 GLANDERS (FARCY) dogs with the more virulent bacilli. Sacharow (1893) raised the virulence for cats by repeated passage (eight) through this species, but found then that the bacilli had lost their virulence for horses, a fact which has been observed in other germs. Straus (1889) claimed that they be- came attenuated by passage through the wolf. It is certain that the bacilli vary greatly in virulence even when taken directly from the horse (Kitt, 1896), and tested upon horses and guinea-pigs. Experience in Russia, as also observations reported by Semmer (1894) in Germany, prove the existence of a mild form of glanders. This milder form is often referred to as " southern glanders," because of its greater freqviency in France, Italy, and Southern Russia. It seems to be unknown in Northern Russia, Germany, and Scandinavia. Whether this depends upon a virus of lessened virulence or upon an inherited I'esistance of certain southern and eastern races of horses is not determined. VI. Immunity.—We have noted above the immunity or susceptibility shown by certain species of animals towards this disease. There exists also an individual immmiity or suscepti- bility. It has, for instance, been repeatedly observed that certain horses could be exposed with impunity for months or even years by being kept in stables with glandered animals. This natural resistance may, however, be over- come through overwork, bad food, neglect, poor stabling, exposure to cold or the debilitating effects of intercurrent disease. This explains the greater prevalence of glanders amongst horses in times of war. One attack of glanders seems to convey a certain degree of immunity, but the evidence can scarcely be termed satisfactory. Experiments at producing im- munity through inoculation with dead or attenuated cultures, as also with the serum of naturally immune animals, or such as have recovered from an attack, or been rendered resistant to increasing doses of the virus, as also inoculations with mallein, have not given fully satisfactory results. Some investigators report positive results, others negative ones, others again that they have obtained inconstant results. (Straus 1888, Charrin 1885, Finger 1889, Sadowsky 1891, Chenot and Pick, Semmer 1892, Sacharow 1893, Semmer 1894, Hiippe, Schindelka, Bonome, Schattenfroh 1894, Preusse, Nocard, Comeny, v. Babes, Rigler, and Podaska 1897.) Since masked glanders has been more often detected through the use of mallein in diagnosis, it has been made quite clear that glanders is by no means the fatal disease it used to be thought. Faverot and Humbert (1893) state that as long as the nodules are grey and transparent it is possible for the animal to overcome the bacilli; when the nodules undergo cheesy degeneration the bacilli usually overcome the animal. Ani- mals kept under good hygienic conditions stand a much better chance of recovery. As this was determined upon animals but slightly affected, mallein being used for diagnosis, it does not alter the prevailing opinion based upon well- marked clinical appearances, for the more de- veloped disease is practically incurable. Nocard (1896, 1897) holds strongly to the opinion that recovery may result in qiiite fresh cases, for the reason that he has frequently observed spon- taneous recovery under ordinary conditions as also in experimentally infected animals. Remj^ (1897), who has gone over the literature, cites twenty-three recorded cases of recovery from glanders in man between the years 1812-92. Whilst acute glanders or farcy may lead to a fatal termination in 8-15 days, the chi'onic form may last for months or even years. In chronic cases death may be caused by pytemia or acute glanders. Hallipeau and Jeanselme report the case of a man who suffered six years. The disease was characterised during the first three years by recurring phlegmons and abscesses, but no general symptoms, the lesions healing spon- taneously, or as the result of treatment with caustics. A latent period of three years now followed, when the disease broke out again in the acute form, the man dying. Bollinger observed a case of eleven years' standing. M'Fadyean (1896), and subsequently Fouler- ton, WladimirofF, Bourges and Mery (1897-98), observed that the serum of a glandered animal agglutinated bouillon cultures of the glanders bacillus. Semmer (1892) was unable to pro- duce immunity in cats and guinea-pigs through the serum of naturally innnune animals such as the horse and cattle, whilst Chenot and Pick (1892) claimed they had been able to save seven-tenths of infected guinea-pigs by the use of cattle serum. When guinea-pigs had been inoculated with very virulent cultures (which killed in five days) the serum retarded death until the 21-42 day. V. Babes, Riglor, and Podaska (1897) state that donkeys treated with increasing doses of mallein, and finally with injections of dead bacilli, yield a preventive and curative serum. Semmer treated horses with mallein and found their serum only con- ferred a transitory immunity. VII. Symptoms.—In the horse acute glanders has a period of incubation varying from 3-8 days or longer. At the onset febrile symptoms manifest themselves, the horse loses its appetite and is sluggish. In a day or two a serous nasal discharge appears, which at first may be from one nostril only ; by the fifth or sixth day this discharge is purulent, yellow, and viscid. The margins of the nostrils are swollen and the lymphatics of the face inflamed. The nasal mucous membrane, at first hypersemic, inflamed, and studded with small nodules, later shows large irregular ulcerating patches, which tend to become confliient and form large serpiginous ulcers with raised edges. These ulcers may eat