390 GALTON'S VENTILATING FIREPLACE eating with the smoke flue) to open into the room near the ceihng. tiee Ventilation and Warming {Extraction System). Galton'S Whistle. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {General Diagnosis, Localisation of Seat of Lesion); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Suppurativb Disease {Diagnosis of Middle Ear from Internal Ear Disease). Galvanic Cautery. SeeaisoCxvT-Enx. —The galvanic cautery is an instrument for burning tissues, the heat being produced by a current of electricity. Principle of Construction. — A piece of metal of relatively high resistance—platinum being most commonly used—is placed in a circuit of ordinary copper wire. The copper wires are carefully insulated and bound together, being prolonged into the handle of the instru- ment. When the current is allowed to pass, the platinum, offering resistance, becomes heated, and thus forms the cautery. The handle is provided with a key by which the current may be easily closed and opened. Source op Current.—The current may be obtained from (1) a battery; (2) an accumu- lator ; or (3) a lighting main. 1. Battery. — If a battery be employed for this purpose it must be different from that used for galvanisation or for electrolysis. In the latter cases high electromotive force, that is, high voltage, is required to overcome the high resistance of the human body, whereas a strong current cannot be borne. On the other hand, a strong current is required to render incan- descent a piece of platinum of the thickness necessary for a cautery, and to produce such a current and maintain it constant, even for a short time, large cells are necessary; but as the resistance of platinum wii'e is very small relatively to that of the human body, a small electromotive force is required, therefore few cells. A battery to be used for the sole purpose of providing current for a galvanic cautery should consist of from two to six bichromate cells of large size, the square shape being preferable to the bottle shape because it admits of the plates being farther apart, which secures greater con- stancy of the current. These cells should be connected " parallel," t'.e. zinc to zinc and carbon to carbon, for by this arrangement the internal resistance is diminished and a stronger current is yielded. For the ordinary small cautery the battery must be able to produce a current of at least eight amperes. 2. Accimiulator. — Generally the most con- venient and the most reliable and constant source of current is the accumulator. It does not easily get out of order, and may be simply adapted for use either with the cautery or for a small electric lamp. Two or three secondary cells, each giving two volts, enclosed in a strong oak case, will be found most convenient for general purposes. 3. Lighting Main.—Both continuous and alternating sources of electrical supply may be employed for cautery work. With a continuous current a suitable resist- ance, consisting of spirals of thick wire, must be provided. As the pressure in these mains varies from 100 to 250 volts a large amount of energy is lost, seeing that only two to four volts are required in the cautery. With a properly constructed resistance all dangers from accident are avoided, and, as the current is usually required for a very short time, the cost is not serious. An alterjiating current affords a very simple and economical means of heating a cautery. All that is necessary is to insert in the circuit the primary of a small transformer, the secondary of which is wound so as to produce a large current at a small pressure. The strength of the current in the cautery is regulated by the position of the two coils I'elatively to each other. An excellent transformer, suitable for this pur- pose, is that devised by Woakes. Forms of Instrument in Use.—In work on the nose and throat and in dental work are found the commonest applications of the gal- vanic cautery. The handle devised by Dr. Schech is the one most commonly used. To this any of the platinum points, or "burners," of which there are many forms—probe-pointed, flat, spear-shaped, etc.^—differing in size and shape, may be fitted ; or a wire, arranged as a snare or ecraseur. For the latter purpose the ordinary steel wire, of various thicknesses, which is used for pianos, is quite suitable. When a larger heated surface is required a piece of porcelain may be employed, introduced within a loop or spiral of platinum wire, which with the wire becomes heated when the circuit is closed. Disease in which the Galvanic Cautery is Employed.—Throat.—In hypertrophic pharyn- gitis, for the destruction of hypertrophied tissue. It may sometimes be applied to hyperti'ophied tonsils. In the larynx it has been employed for the destruction of small neoplasms ; or, as a snare, for the removal of larger pediculated tumours. Nose.—Again, for the destruction of hyper- trophied tissue causing obstruction of the nares. Here the flat burner is employed ; but the snare may also be used to remove large masses, especially when they are attached by broad bases, because the hot wire makes for itself a furrow, and obtains thus a hold which the cold wire may fail to do. It is also useful for cauterising pedicles of polypi removed by the cold snare or by forceps. And in cases of epistaxis due to an unhealthy condition of the mucosa its application, at a dull red heat, is very valuable.