183 ERYTHEMA artificial production of E. multiforme by irritat- ing the female urethra with a sound and savine ointment. These cases are, however, not free from all doubt, since the patient in each case had l)een suffering from gonorrhoea, and the irritation may have easily caused a recrudescence of the disease and an accomjaanying toxtemia. The causes acting by internal absorption are :— (1) Drugs, inchiding antitoxins and tubercuhn (see " Di'ug Eruptions "). (2) Foods, generally in a state of decomposi- tion ; the commonest being sliell-fish, especially unissels, game, cheese, and canned meats. Also grain poisoning (see " Pellagra "). (3) Toxins from organisms existing in the body. («) P^rom acute specific fevers, especially enteric, cholera, diphtheria, variola (prodromal eruption), vaccinia, gonorrhoea, saprfemia, septic- leniia, and pyremia (this is the so-called surgical and puerjaeral scarlatina; for further details see under tlie headings of these diseases). (/>) From chronic infective diseases, especially tuber- cidosis and syphilis, in which latter disease E. multiforme has several times been observed, either immediately before or after the earliest syphilitic rash. (4) From absorption of poisons, usually shut off from the cii'culation, e.g. hydatid eruption and erythemata after enemata. (5) From poisons generated in the body from altered metabolism, albuminuria, and urasmia, diabetes, cholremia, etc. (6) l^'rom seasonal and atmospheric condi- tions, including rheumatism. This class of cause needs a few words of explanation. In the first place, although it is not difficidt to draw up elaborate etiological schemes, it will be found in the majority of cases the cause cannot be found. The disease is undoubtedly very nmch more prevalent at certain seasons of the year, notably spring and autumn, and in damp weather, and it may therefore be considered probable that it is due to infection of unknown origin, occurring when the bodily resistance is lowered by cooling. As regards the relation- ship to rheumatism the question still remains open. Owing to the frequent presence of pains in the muscles and joints, together with the occasional occurrence of endo- and pericarditis, many authors have considered the disease to be merely a symptom of rheumatism. It has been, however, pointed out that such a train of symp- toms is common to many acute infective dis- eases, and that therefore it does not afford sufficient evidence of the presence of rheuma- tism. Other observers have taken the opposite standpoint, and denied all relationship between E. multiforme and rheiimatism. This view can, however', only be maintained by neglecting to take into consideration the undoiibted fact that there is a special liability to be attacked hj E. midtiforme in patients who have either been sufferers from acute rheumatism themselves, or in whose family history rheumatism is notice- ably frequent. This association of rheumatism and E. multiforme is perhaps strongest in the case of E. nodosum. (7) Fi-om specific organisms. This as a cause is probably extremely I'are, but its occurrence can scai'cely be denied in the light of five cases reported by Professor Denmie. In these cases, all of them children, varying in age from three to eleven, the symptoms were the same in all, namely, severe bullous and nodose erythema ending in gangrene, and associated with pains in the muscles, bones, and joints. Recovery took place, but one child died eleven months later of tuberculous meningitis. Bacteriological examination showed the constant presence of a bacillus, which proved pathogenic to guinea-pigs on inocidation by scarification or subcutaneous injection, producing nodes and bullfe with gan- grene. Other cases have also been reported, in wliich cocci have been found in the lesions, blood, etc, but they are not so convincing. Apart from their general pathological interest, these cases have a special bearing in proving that in some cases, at all events, the jjroduction of symmetrical erythemata may be brought about by the local action of microbes. The pathological anatomy of the erythemata is comparatively simple. On section it is found that the lesion is formed liy a more or less haimorrhagic exudation into the corium, the vessels being all siu-rounded by a dense infiltra- tion of cells. In bullous cases there is necrosis of almost the whole depth of the epidermis. The blood of patients suffering from E. multiforme and the serum of the h\\\hc generally show a con- dition of marked eosinophilia, but as this is also found in many other skin diseases its diagnostic significance is not great. (See " Leucocytosis.") Treatment.—From what has been already said of the etiology it will be seen that in many cases the treatment resolves itself into that of the disease in the course of which the erythema arises. In those cases in which no cause can be ascertained treatment is apt to leave one quite in the lurch. The acute cases run their course so rapidly that it is often impossible to judge of the effects of the drugs administered. In those cases in which there is a history of the ingestion of unsuitable foods or of acute dis- turbance of the digestive organs, a single dose of calomel should be given, followed by a morning saline draught, which should be repeated for two or three days. In the more chronic cases quinine in full doses (at least 15 grs. daily) is generally of the greatest use, while in some cases sodium salicylate has been found of ser- vice. In Erythema nodosum rest in bed is an important part of the treatment, while one or two authors have claimed that potassium iodide acts as a specific. Locally bland powders and cooling lotions are