EXPECTORATION 194 anatomy of this disease, the naked-eye appear- ances of the sputum vary so greatly as to be of little diagnostic value. The amount and nature are, however, a rough guide to the activity of the disease and the condition of the patient. In acute miliary tuberculosis the sputum is scanty, and resembles that of the earlier stage of acute bronchitis; it may, indeed, be absent. In ordinary chronic phthisis we usually find a muco-purulent sputum with occasional liEemo- ptysis. Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the sputum is its heterogeneity. Some parts are but slightly purulent and consist chiefly of mucus, others are more densely yellow and may form nummules, while here and there little cheesy masses, or, more rarely, calcareoiis granules are seen. Though suggestive of ex- cavation, nummules are not pathognomonic of it, since they may arise in the bronchi. Haemoptysis may be so slight as only to tinge one or two spits, it may occur as a continuous oozing, or may be severe and rapidly fatal. The microscopic constituents whose importance causes them to overshadow all others are yellow elastic tissue and tubercle bacilli. Gangrene of the Lung.—The foetor is extreme, but less pungent than in bronchiectasis. The sputum is abundant, dark-coloured, and on standing tends to separate into layers. Micro- scopically, we find debris of lung substance, various organisms, crystals of fatty acids, hsema- toidin, leucin and tyrosin, etc., but, on account of the presence of ferments, no elastic tissue. It must be remembered that the sputum may suggest gangrene, without that actually being present, and that the converse of this may also occur. Abscess of the Lung.—As a rule the abscess empties itself periodically, and the patient, after bringing up a large quantity of pus, has relief for a time. An empyema or abscess perforating the lung from without gives rise to the same symptoms, and multiple dilatation of the smaller bronchi may have a similar result. The pre- sence of elastic tissue of alveolar form may assist in the diagnosis of abscess from perforating em- pyema and bronchiectasis. Besides the elastic tissue organisms may be found. One of the pyogenic cocci is commonly present, or, in rarer instances, some other microbe. In amoebic hepato-pulmonary abscess the sputum (according to Davidson) is rather mucoid than purulent, being partly watery, partly viscid and frothy; in the earlier stages red corpuscles predominate over leucocytes, giving a bright red to a dull brick-red or brownish colour. The expectoration contains numerous small, friable, cheesy masses, while microscopically various crystals, elastic fibres, and, in particular, the amoeba coli can be seen. (Edema of the Lungs.—The sputum is frothy, watery, copious, and poor in formed constituents. It is often blood-stained, but contains few red corpuscles, the coloration being due mainly to blood-pigment. Unlike most other sputa it is rich in serum albumin, and has a high specific gravity. III. Microscopical Examination of the Sputum. — Although for the recognition of organisms staining is necessary, the examination of fresh specimens of sputum, by jDlacing a small portion under a cover-glass, with or without the addition of a drop of acetic acid, should not be omitted. The cells may be further studied by fixing thiia films for five minutes in formalin 1, alcohol 10, and staining with eosin-hfematoxylin or eosin-methylene blue. (1) Cellular Elements.—Leucocytes are usually abundant; they may be highly granular, or contain in their interior carbon particles or altered blood-pigment. Eosinophile cells may be found in gi-eat numbers in the sputum of asthma and of so-called eosinophilic bronchitis. Red corpuscles retain their form for a con- siderable time after extrusion from the vessels, the principal change to which they are liable being loss of pigment, which passes into the ground substance of the sputum. In course of time, however, they shrink, and become other- wise altered, leaving behind pigment granules or hfematoidin crystals. Blood corpuscles are, of course, present in all cases of heemoptysis, but it is important to remember that a few may be found in almost every sputum. Epithelium.—Squamous epithelium is derived from the mouth, pharynx, or larynx, especially about the true cords. Ciliated e2)ithelium is rare; if abundant, it has probably come from the nares, since most of the ciliated epithelium of the trachea and bronchi loses its cilia when shed, and appears in the sputum in the cubical form. The most important epithelial cells, however, are the so-called alveolar cells, although their source and significance are still doubtful. These are very common ; they are round or oval cells, several times as large as a leucocyte, with one or more nuclei situated in a granular or fatty protoplasmic body. Semi-translucent, rounded myelin droplets with sharp outlines may be found in some of these cells, as well as free in the substance of the sputum. It is said that when alveolar epithelium is found in abundance it indicates a catarrhal condition of the alveoli rather than of the finer bronchi. Alveolar epithelium often contains blood-pigment, parti- cularly in chronic venous congestion of the lung. Such " Heart cells," as they are called, are most commonly found in cases of mitral stenosis. (2) Lung Tissue.—Comparatively large pieces of lung tissue are occasionally expectorated in cases of gangrene of the lung. The most im- portant substance coming under this head is, however, yellow elastic tissue, which is patho- gnomonic of destructive change in some part of the respiratory tract. It may be found wherever