ENTEROPTOSIS 122 recent writings on the subject, that the most probable causes of enteroptosis, or of the dis- placement of individual abdominal viscera, are loss of abdominal fat, artificial compression of the waist, pregnancy, weakened support by visceral tension, a slackened state of the nuiscles of the anterior and lateral abdominal parietes from various causes, and perhaps in a few cases congenital weakness of the supporting liga- ments. Dilatation of the stomach can often be traced to long-continued habits of overloading that organ with food and drinks; but such can hardly cause gastroptosis. The organ dilates because of a too frequent physical distension, which in itself tends to keep the upper part of the stomach in place by reason of the conse- quent increased intra-abdominal tension. Unless the tension common to all the abdominal con- tents be irregularly or inefficiently maintained no change in the positions of the contained organs can take place, unless weakness of attachments and deficient resisting power of the diaphragm permit of sinkage of organs, with occupation of their former places by other parts. Etiological Factors L Glenard. 2. Stiller. 3. Obrastow. 4. Schwerdt. Symons Eccles. Factors. Weakness of peritoneal ligaments; sinking of bowel at ends of its transverse coils; a "ptosical diathesis." Weakness of peritoneal folds ; inherited predis- position ; weak nerve systems, central and digestive. Heredity ; loss of tone of abdominal muscles ; loss of peritoneal fat; neurasthenia. Atony of nervous sys- tem ; corsets, leading to loss of tone in walls and impaired digestion. Loss of abdominal ten- sion. Organs. Stomach. Trans- verse colon, right kid- ney. (Neurosis and dyspepsia.) Stomach, small in- testine, right or both kidneys, the liver, and the spleen rarely; movabletenth rib. Any two abdominal organs. General entero- ptosis. "All viscera apparently hanging down in a pendulous belly." Position of the Abdominal Organs.—No exact statements are possible as to the normal positions and limits of abdominal organs in the majority of persons. They vary markedly with the form of the chest, the state of nutrition generally, the fulness or emptiness of the stomach or bowels, in both sexes: in the female their relations depend also upon the extent to which com- pression of the waist has been carried, through the use of corsets, and upon former pregnancies. The question is complicated by the fact that the hollow viscera displaced may also be dilated; indeed, a stomach may be displaced downwards while so dilated that its misplace- ment is obscured by the physical signs afforded by it. The normal stomach should not extend below an inch above the umbilicus when dis- tended, or, at most, below the umbilicus; above. it should yield evidence by its resonant note of its lesser curvature being opposed to the left lobe of the liver; the fundus corresponding to the level of the sixth or seventh costal cartilage. No stomach can be ptosed if the fundus reaches as high as this. Statistics.—Glenard diagnosed the presence of some degree of enteroptosis in 404 out of 1310 patients examined for dyspeptic troubles, or a proportion of 30'8 per cent. Of the 404, 306 were females. Einhorn gives the following figures:— Percentage with Patients Examined. Enteroptosis. Males 6-2 Females .... 34-8 Both sexes . . . . 17-6 Huber found displacements of abdominal organs at 90 per cent of 50 female patients observed. Examination of the position of the stomach in 100 men, and the same number of both women and children, by Klittner and Dyer, afforded evidence of the presence of gastroptosis in 39 adult females, in 3 girls, and in only 4 males. Ten of the females were nulliparae, 12 had borne one, and 17 more than one child. Hertz could only satisfy himself that in 5 out of 50 women examined the abdominal organs were in normal position, while Kellogg among 250 female patients in a lock ward, detected prolapse of the stomach and bowel in 232, or 92'8 per cent. Meinert examined 29 girls before puberty, and recognised the symptoms of gastroptosis in 28. Eccles, out of 468 dyspeptics personally ex- amined, found 27 only with simple gastroptosis —-8 in males (set. 32-61), 19 in females (£et. 9-45). Habel's figures as to the fi-equency of float- ing kidney in patients suffering from various diseases are interesting in this connection. Among 68 cases of locomotor ataxia—44 males, 24 females—he detected a movable kidney in 6, all females, or 25 per cent of their number. Of 5393 female patients examined, 53 presented signs of this lesion, or about 1 per cent, while of 16,518 males, in only 8 could such a diagnosis be established, or 0"048 per cent; the totals yielding 21,911 patients and 61 examples of the lesion, or 0-27 per cent. Habel's figures con- trast markedly with those of Glenard and Einhorn, even although they include other than dyspeptic cases; and also with Hertz's and Huber's more analogous series. The interpreta- tion of enteroptosis by the first two observers implies the presence of movable kidney in their positive cases, and in the cases of the other two, the percentage arrived at for displacements generally implies a considerable proportion of renal dislocations. Symptoms. — Objective. — Mathieu describes two forms of enteroptosis; the first, or " entero- ptosis from outward" causes, showing charac- teristic alterations in the external shape of the