GOUT 500 observed have been in the leucocytes. The writer has recorded {Brit. Med. Journ. Jan. 6, 1900) the appearance of a pecuhar type of white cell, large in size (15 /a), with a large oval or horseshoe - shaped nucleus, poor in chromatin, tlie protoplasm vacuolated and im- perfectly stained.1 These cells could be readily differentiated from the ordinary finely granular oxyphile leucocyte, and also from tlie lympho- cyte ; in form and general appearance they resemble degenei'ated myelocytes. During the acute attack these cells were considerably increased in number, and their presence sug- gested the possibility of their having an im- portant relationship to the alterations in the uric acid and phosphoric acid excretion observed in the same case. The results of a more recent investigation, in course of publication, showed the presence of somewhat similar cells, and their increase in number during the paroxysm was even more striking than in the former instance. This case is possibly of even greater interest, as it is more than possible that the acute attack was in great part induced by the artificial administi'a- tion of nucleic acid, which was tried as a therapeutic agent. Much further investigation is necessary before we can speak definitely as to the significance of these cells, and in the meantime we may refrain from theorising regarding them. Their presence in the two cases, and the great increase in number during the acute attack, are, however, suggestive of their possessing considerable etiological signifi- cance. The Urine in Gout As we may look to the acute paroxysm to furnish us with the clue to the etiology of the disease, we will in the first place consider the condition of the urine during the acute attack. It is usually said that the urine then exhibits all the characters of a febrile urine, bat this is by no means always the case. Transient albuminuria is present in a number of cases, especially in recurring paroxysms. The greatest interest, however, centres in the excretion of uric acid and other nitrogen-holding substances. There is now abundant evidence to show that during the attack there is not only no diminu- tion in the amount of uric acid excreted, but there is frequently an actual increase, sometimes considerable. As already mentioned, Kolisch's view that during the paroxysm the alloxur bases are diminished has not been confii'med by other observers. We must also bear in mind that the laboratory difficulties in the investigation of the 1 In some cases the films were fixed with heat (120° for fifteen minutes), and in others with alcohol and ether for an hour. Some were stained with eosin (2 per cent watery solution for two minutes) and hajmatoxylin (lianseii's solution, three minutes) ; others with eosin and methylene blue. In tliose fixed with heat special attention was paid to the granular leucocytes.' alloxur bases make their records less valuable than those of other substances. Of greater importance is the excretion of total nitrogen. This is considerable during the attack, but this is doubtless in part due to the general febrile reaction. From the numerous detailed records available there is some evidence to show that for some time preceding the attack tliere is an actual retention of nitrogen in the tissues. The uric acid-urea ratio may be very little different from the normal, either during the attack or in the interval. With regard to the reaction of the urine very little can be said, except that we cannot lay stress on any apparent slight daily variations in its acidity. 1 have personally examined cases where the reaction was alkaline or neutral one day, and distinctly acid the next, and yet the amount of ^u-ic acid in the former was much less than that in the latter. Another point may be referred to. Attempts have lately been made to prove that the excretion of uric acid and phosphoric acid (two end products of nuclear disintegration) go hand in hand. It is very doubtful if this is the case. My own observations are strongly opposed to this view, and on other groimds one is inclined against it. It is true that uric acid and phosphoric acid are two end products of metabolism of the nucleins, but we must re- member that the uric acid formed in the body is probably capable of further and ready trans- formation into urea, while there is nothing to indicate that phosphoric acid can undergo any further change in the economy. As regards the urine in chronic gout, it is generally believed that the uric acid excretion is small in amount in the intervals. This may be so in some cases, but it is by no means invariably so. There is considerable individuality in each urine, and some of the worst cases show a very large amount of uric acid in the free interval. The occasional occurrence of glyco- suria, phosphaturia, and oxaluria has already been referred to. Conclusions Do these findings in the blood and urine lead to any conclusions as to the etiology of the disease? We must unhesitatingly answer in the negative. At the same time, we will act wisely by refraining to formulate theoretical deductions. The generally accepted belief that the primary development in gout is the heaping up and deposit of uric acid in the tissues must be regarded as quite inadequate in view of the points referred to under the state of the blood. The relationship which the increase of uric acid in the blood bears to the local deposit is entirely unknown. Is there any actual increased formation of uric acid in gout 1 This query at once raises another. Where is uric acid normally produced ? As the latter question has not yet received a final answer, we must speak with