522 GOUT turbot, halibut, or skate. No more than two vegetables are to be allowed, and then in sparing amount—a sauce to be reckoned as a vegetable. (Half an ounce of whisky in not more than half a tumblerful of water the only safe beverage for constant use.) Claret, champagne, and whisky are the only drinks for which patient has any regard. The puddings recommended are milk puddings of various kinds, stewed fruits made with small quantity of sugar. Suet puddings only to be taken in sparing amount, and then only when the other courses are of the lighter nature. Jellies and creams can be taken sparingly, merangues (a special weakness) to be avoided. Bananas and straw- berries are best avoided. Small cup of cafe noir prepared without sugar. Are any medicinal remedies called for'? As the patient is a sensible woman and fully ap- preciates the very small influence which drugs have exerted in her disease, none should be recommended with the exception of the constant use of a vegetable pill, and frequent use of the saline already referred to. This case is a fair illustration of a not un- common type in which the purely vegetarian diet, so eloquently advocated by Haig, is not applicable in treatment, and even if it were advisable there is not the remotest possibility of its being carried out. With regard to exer- cise, as the patient is of an active temperament, and has a considerable amount of muscular exercise in connection with her household duties and numerous outdoor interests, no further re- commendations are called for. Further, it would be well for her to arrange to have her annual holiday occasionally at a health resort, where a full course of hydropathic treatment under medical directions will be useful in work- ing oS the effects of the occasional or frequent deviations from the paths of physiological righteousness, which may be regarded as a part of the clinical history of the disease ; and in the intervals, and for the same purpose, an occasional course of diuretic remedies will be found of the greatest service. Summary. It may be well now to tabulate the principal points which should be kept in view in the general management of all cases. 1. When a hereditary tendency exists in children, habits of extreme sobriety in eating and drinking should be cultivated, and the diet should be mainly a milk, vegetarian, and light meat one. 2. When the disease is established there is no routine treatment, and the details will not be the same in any two cases. Attention should, however, be directed in turn to the following :— (a) The diet and state of the digestive tract. (6) The amount and nature of the exercise indulged in. (c) The functional activity of the skin and kidneys. (d) The state of the central nervous system. 3. The quantity of food should be determined by the amount of active exercise. Three meals per day only to be taken, and those to be of a simple character. 4. When in doubt as to which set of food constituents to cut off, begin with the carbo- hydi'ates, and especially the saccharine sub- stances. In not a few cases the latter may require to he completely cut off, and in every instance special care must be exercised in the admixture of carbohydrates with the fats and nitrogenous foodstuffs. 5. Thorough mastication of the food is all important, and strict attention to the evacuation of the bowels a necessity (with, in addition, an occasional saline). 6. Fluids and leverages.—(a) Alcohol in any form is better avoided, except in subjects who are more or less habituated to its use, in which case the liquor taken should be the one which is known by the patient to be least detrimental to him. On no account should drinks be mixed. All sweet wines and malt liquors should be avoided, unless the patient is satisfied from careful observation that these are not preju- dicial to him. The stimulant should be taken in a measured quantity and with meals. {h) The free use of the alkaline table waters is to be commended, care being taken that an ex- cessive amount of fluid is not taken with the meals. (c) A tumblerful of hot water at night and an occasional course of mineral waters taken on an empty stomach are useful eliminants. 7. Exercisie.—This should be adapted to the age and sex of the individual. Various forms of home gymnastics are useful in supplementing the course ; in all cases care must be taken to avoid excessive muscular fatigue. 8. Attention to the excretory functions of the skin is of the first importance. This can be well done in the first instance at home by the daily morning bath, and the aid of a hot bath once a week or more frequently, followed by the stimulating effects of a cold spray. Flannels appropriate to the time of the year are to be worn. An occasional special course of hydro- therapeutics at a suitable health resort is desirable in all cases where such treatment is possible. 9. Medicinal remedies form the least import- ant part of the treatment, but are beneficial in certain cases, more especially in those with a naturally weak digestive tract. 10. Owing to the profound influence of the mind upon the body, all the steps necessary to secure a state of mental rest (cessation of worry, change of air to a more bracing climate) must be advocated, and if these are not given effect to, the various other remedial measures may be of less avail.