EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 94 nerves arise from the alar lamina of the hind- brain. The acoustic ganglion is adherent to the auditory vesicle, which is pear-shaped, and has a prolongation from its dorsal side, which indicates the beginning of the aqueductus vesti- buli. Between the auditory vesicle and the myelencephalon or after-brain lies the upper ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal or ninth and ventral walls. In Mall's 26 day embryo (upon which this description is largely based) there was no trace of the rudimentary ganglion of the accessory, which has been found by His in the human subject; this is perhaps to be explained by the fact that it is an organ in process of degeneration, and so may be expected to be occasionally absent. The hypoglossal or Tig. 16.—Deeper view of reconstruction of Mall's 26 day embryo. Enlarged about 18 times. H., hypophysis ; M., mouth, mesentery ; 1, 2, 3, and 4, branchial pockets ; B., bronchus ; P., pancreas ; i., liver; ]V.B., Wolffian body; W.D., Wolffian duct; A"., kidney ; C, cloaca ; 0., openings by which the pleuro-peritoneal cavities communicate ; P., papilliform projection into the lower opening. (Vide Mall's article In Journal of Morphology, vol. v., 1891.) nerve, which arises from cells in the alar lamina; on the ventral side is a second ganglion, the ganglion petrosum. The vagus nerve is re- presented by two large ganglia, the future ganglion nodosum and ganglion jugulare; these are united by a band of cells, and from the ganglion nodosum a branch passes to the fourth branchial arch. The spinal accessory arises in a row of bundles which lies between the vagus and the first cervical nerve, and emerges from the myelencephalon midway between its dorsal twelfth nerve arises from a group of fibres parallel to but more ventral than those of the spinal accessory. It is evident, therefore, that already at the fourth week very considerable progress has been made with the ontogenesis of the complicated part of the mechanism of the nervous .system known as the cranial nerves. It may be noted in passing that the trigeminus may be regarded as the nerve of the first or mandibular branchial arch and groove ; the facial as that of the second or hyoid arch and of the