ECZEMA 41 benzoated lard with 12 pei' cent calamine or zinc oxide. Under this salve the surface soon l)econies reformed and hardens, and then re- quires the addition of a little tar to the oint- ment. Treatment must be continued long after the surface has become fairly pale and intact, since vaso-motor weakness and softness of the surface remain for several months. Tar- calamine lotion is to be recommended in this final stage. Type 3. Tlie 'palms and fingers are the seat of a roiKjh, corneous, thickened state of the epi- denuis; one or more of the lines of flexion are fissured and exude plasma; in S07ne cases the eczema involves the cutis, jji-od^icinr/ more or less induration. The disease is usually symmetrical. —Only two other conditions are likely to be confounded with this form of eczema, namely, psoriasis and late symmetrical syphilides. As regards psoriasis, a knowledge of the differ- ential diagnosis is of no importance so far as concerns treatment, but it is useful for purposes of prognosis. If the condition of the palms is part of a dry cutaneous cataiTh which is worse in autumn and spring, if it has lasted off and on for years, and tends to involve specially the tips of the elbows and the fronts of the knees, the right diagnosis is psoriasis. The psoriatic in- Hammation of the palm is a dry process which produces red discs surrounded by a free collar of ragged epidermis, imparting to the lesion a worm-eaten appearance. To distinguish from syphilides note the history and course of the disease. If there is no appearance of a serous exudation endeavouring to escape through the thickened stratified epithelium, if there are no moist or dry fissures, if the lesion is conspicu- ously circumscribed and suiTounded by pale skin, and at the same time passes deeply into the cutis with niarked infiltration, the diagnosis is in favour of syphilis. A point of jarime im- portance, which Mauriac of Paris has pointed out, is that a genuine sypliilidc of the palm may in course of time lose all its syphilitic taint, and degenerate into a simple eczema, which is un- aftected by merciu-y or iodide of jjotassium, but yields completely to suitable local treatment. Treatment.—The natural indication is the removal of the injured horny tissues, and this is best effected by covering the parts with salicylic plaster muslin containing from 5 to 10 per cent of salicylic acid. Fresh plaster must be applied once daily, and continued till the horny tissue is removed, when zinc oxide or tar plaster may be substituted for the former, and continued till the surface is once more reformed. A stimulating ointment shoidd now take the place of the plaster, such, for example, as salicylic acid (2 per cent), oleum rusci (2 to 5 per cent), zinc oxide (10 per cent in lard or vaseline). Cheiropompjholyx. — It is still a question whether the disease known as dysidrosis or cheiropompholyx should be included among the eczemas. The vesicles of cheiropompholyx are more deeply seated at their origin than those of eczema, and bear a superficial re- semblance to boiled sago grains. The most prominent feature is the intense irritation which accompanies their development. The disease is symmetrical, and may attack the feet at the same time. It occurs most commonly in young neurotic women, and is apt to relapse after apparent cure. A mistake in diagnosis is of no importance so far as concerns treatment. (jENrrAL Uegion.—Scrotum. — AVhen eczema thoroughly attacks the genital region it is not easily cured, for it is a region specially liable to injury, to unrest, and to disturbances of circulation, owing to the numerous flexures, its dependent position, and to the fact that it is one of the hottest and most glandular parts of the cutaneous surface. The worse forms of sci'otal eczema occur in persons whose muscular scrotal fibres are completely relaxed. A flabby scrotum in a man over fifty years of age, and addicted to the pleasures of the table, will retain more or less of its eczema indefinitely. Owing to the relaxed condition of the fibrous meshwork of the scrotum, the exudation extends laterally and deeply, so that, in acute cases, the organ may be enormously swollen. No form of eczema is more harassing than that affecting the genital region. It commonly spreads to the groins, reddening and cracking the skin at the bottom of the grooves, and may involve the penis, or spi'ead over the abdomen and down the thighs. The anus in long-standing cases is usiially involved. Type 1. The scrotum is relaxed, swollen, and red, and covered v)ith foul-smelling secretion.— Treatment may be started by a single warm bran, boi'acic bath of ten minutes' duration to remove secretion and putrid products; and this should be followed by the application of compresses of mild astringent lotions (silver nitrate, alum, acetate of lead), to be kept in position by means of a pair of wdiite cotton bathing-drawers. The astringent treatment must be continued till the scrotum is well liraced up. Later the addition of tar solution to the lotion is to be rcconnnended. Ointments should be avoided. Type 2. TJie scrotum is flahhy and slightly swollen; dry ivith no obvious .secretion, hut hypercemic, hot, and probably scaly. The groins are red and fissured.—Here there is no need for the bath. Astringent lotions should be used as in type 1. Ointments must be avoided. Bathing-drawers nnist be worn constantly, and the lotion applied on soft flannel or butter-cloth, a separate piece being placed in each groin, and another over the scrotum. Anus.—Two forms of the inflamed anus are commonly met with — (1) the leathery anus, and (2) the pink anus; both require different