203 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF glaucoma. The anterior chamber is of course absent when the aqueous is evacuated by injury or operation, and the iris is then seen to lie in contact with the cornea till the aqueous accumu- lates. When the lens is absent or dislocated Ijackwai'ds, the iris, deprived of its support, will recede from the cornea, and the anterior chamber will appear deepened. At the same time the iris will generally be seen to quiver when any quick movement of the eye is made (irido-donesis). Occasionally, in severe blows or injuries of the eyeball, the iris is partly torn from its attachment (irido-dialysis). In iritis there is often considerable turbidity of the aqueous, and in many cases of septic corneal ulcer a fibrino - purulent exudation accumulates at the lower part of the anterior chamber (hypopyon). Occasionally blood is present in a similar situation (hyphcema). The surface of the iris should be bright, and the details of its structure clearly visible. Tur- bidity of the aqueous, of eifusion of lymph into the substance of the iris, renders its surface dull, and blurs the details. Tlie actual size of the pupil varies in difterent individuals, it usually becomes small in old age. An extremely small pupil—" myosis "—is often an indication of locomotor ataxy. The pupil should be circular and its outline regular. Increased intraocular tension often causes the pupil to assume an oval form with the long diameter transverse. Irregularities of outline point to the presence of adhesions between the iris and the lens capsule—"posterior synechiiie." These will be rendered more evident by the use of a mydriatic. The pupil should dilate slowly on being shaded from the light, and on exposure to light it should contract quickly, and oscillate slightly before coming to rest. This is called the " direct action." The pupils should also contract in association with convergence of the visual axes—"associated action"; and the centres being connected, the two pupils should act together—" consensual action." The reaction to light may be lost while the associated action is present. This is known as the " Argyll-Robertson pupil." It is usually but not always associated with myosis, and is an indication of locomotor ataxy. Contraction of the pupil is governed by the third nerve, dilatation by the sympathetic. I'aralysis or irritation of either nerve will there- fore produce corresponding variations in its size or mobility. Its action is also mechanically interfered with by posterior synechia3. The sympathetic nerve also supplies the involuntary muscular fibres that widen the palbebral fissure, lience differences in the size of the pupil pro- duced by the aftections of the sympathetic are accompanied by corresponding alterations of the palpebral fissiu'e. For the light-reflex to be present it is neces- sary that the reflex chain should be complete. This consists of the optic nerve which conveys the stimulus to the nerve-centre, the centre itself, and the fibres of the third nerve which go to the iris. Consciousness forms no essential factor in the act, so that it is possible for vision to be absent while the reflex action persists. This is sometimes seen in ui'temic poisoning. In cases of hemianopsia, if the pupils react when light falls upon the blind part of the retina—"Wernicke's sign"—the lesion is on the proximal side of the primary optic ganglia. Crystalline Lens.—Opacities in the lens, and, under favourable conditions, those in the anterior part of the vitreous, can be seen by focal illumination. Opacities in the lens viewed in this way appear white. Opacities on the anterior cap- sule, which are caused by deposits of lymph from former iritis, may be rust-coloured. Any opacity on lens or capsule, when viewed with the ophthalmoscope, appears black against the bright red background of the fundus-refiex. AVhen there is advanced cataract it is some- times of importance to ascertain if the cataract is "ripe," i.e. if the opacity comes right up to the level of the iris. When there is a layer of transparent lens between the opacity and the iris, light thrown obliquely into the pupil does not illuminate the whole area, but the iris throws a crescentic shadow on the lens on the side from which the light comes. The reflections fi'oni the posterior and anterior surfaces of the lens are sometimes used as tests to determine its presence or absence. A candle is held at arm's length in front of the patient, and at about an angle of 30° with the middle line. The observer looking into the eye from the side opposite to the light, and at about the same angle, sees the corneal and the two lenti- cular reflexes. The one from the anterior sur- face is dim and large, and moves in the same direction as the light, while that from the posterior surface is smaller, bright, and moves in the opposite direction to the light. The pre- sence of these images j^roves, of course, the presence of the lens. The depth of any opacity in the media, anterior to the posterior pole of the lens, may be readily judged by the displacement it appears to undergo relatively to the pupillary margin when it is viewed by the observer, first directly from the front, and then from the side. An object situated in front of the plane of the pupil, e.g. on the cornea, will appear to move towards the yjuj^illary margin in a direction opposite to that in which the observer moves his head ; an object situated in the plane at the pupil will not alter its position, while an object lying behind the pupil will appear to approach the margin of the pupil moving in the same direction as the observer's head. The amount