273 FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF of the fifth nerve, but other nerves or nuclei are generally involved in addition. Clonic spasms of the masticatory muscles occur in most conditions where other muscles are similai'ly affected, as in convulsive seizures of all sorts, and they also occur in rigors, when the teeth are said to "chatter," in excessive demonstrations of fear, under the effect of ex- treme cold, and sometimes in paralysis agitans and kindred conditions. Isolated spasms are met with in chorea, where the teeth may be snapped together, sometimes biting the tongue, and that without any warning to the patient. The 2^1'ognosis depends on the nature of the spasm, and would include that of many different diseases, such as tetanus, epilepsy, etc. The diagnosis is easy. It is only necessary to remember that tumours and inflammatory or other swellings near the articulation of the lower jaw may prevent movement, and that there arc cases of rlieumatoid arthritis in which the joint may participate in the changes generally better marked elsewhere, and may eventually become more or less fixed. Ty-eatment.—If possible we must aim at the removal of the cause of the spasm, whether tonic or clonic. Local blisters are often efficacious in hysterical cases, and bromides and other seda- tive remedies are worthy of trial in all cases in which hysteria can be excluded. Hot baths are generally most serviceable, and the galvanic current may be employed, with benefit in some cases, one pole on the back of the neck and the other over the affected muscles. Feeding may have to be carried on in severe tonic cases by means of a tube introduced through any gap in the teeth, or a tooth may have to be extracted or cut over, so as to permit of such feeding. Fig's. See Ficus. ' Figures. See Physiology, Cell {Mitotic Division, Chromatin Figures); Physiology, Senses, Vision {Field of Visio7i, Purkinje's Images or FigHres). Filariasis. Introductiox 273 FiLARLE—General Characters . . 276 FiLARLE affecting MaN OR MaN AND Animals— Filaria Bancrofti : — Where found, Morphology, Examination of Blood for Embryos, Geographical Dis- tribution, Development, Perio- dicity 276 Pathogenic effects:—Chyluria, Ha'ma- tochyluria,Lymph-scrotum, Lymph- angitis, Varicose Inguinal Glands, Chylocele, Elephantiasis Arabiun, Elephantoid Fever . . . 279 Prophylaxis and Treatment . . 281 Filaria Ozzardi . . . .281 VOL. Ill Filaria j^erstans (including its rela- tion to Craw - Craw and Sleeping-Sickness) . . 282 ,, Demarquaii.... 282 diurna . . . .282 ,, medinensis (Guinea-worm) . 283 „ loa 284 le7itis 285 ,, inermis .... 285 ,, volvulus .... 285 ,, Magalhaesi . . . .285 ,, lahialis .... 285 ,, hominis oris . . . 286 „ lym'phatica .... 286 ,, restiformis .... 286 FiLARIxE AFFECTING AnIMALS Filaria equina . . . .286 hemorrhagica . . .286 ,, immitis .... 287 ,, recondita . . . .288 „ i^Titans . . . .288 ,, jmlpehralis . . . .289 Fva7isi . . . .289 ,, labiato-papillosa . . . 289 ,, lachrymalis . . . .289 „ capjra; ..... 289 ,, a.ciitiuscula .... 289 Osleri 289 ,, ocidi canini .... 289 ,, hepatica .... 289 ,, rytipleiirites . . . 289 ,, strumosa .... 289 ,, iincinata .... 289 Mazzantii . . . .290 clava 290 „ Mansoni . . . .290 „ anatis 290 Bibliographical Note .... 290 See also Ascites {Causation, Chylous Ascites) ; H/EMATURiA ; Parasites {Filaricke) ; Sleeping- Sickness ; Trypanosomiasis. Introductory.—Tliough the term " filariasis " has been usually applied in medical works only to diseases due to Filaria Jiancrofti, it appears advisable so to extend the term that it may include all diseases, both of man and animals, which are due to the presence and action of filariaj. Recently the term " malaria" has been similarly extended so as to include a number of diseases of animals caused by para- sites more or less similar to those of human malaria, and in both cases the adoption of such a collective term seems advantageous. There is certainly no valid reason why one disease due to tilarite should be called filariasis to the exclusion of others. In the following article most attention has naturally been given to the filarial parasites affecting man, but it also seemed desirable to include some of the more important filarise affecting animals. The latter are not included merely because of their scien- tific interest, but on the ground that the 18