FIRST AID 295 (iv.) Unconsciousness, epilepsy, apoplexy, hysteria, fainting, various poisons. (v.) Burns, frost - bite, bites of animals, haemorrhage, foreign bodies. (i.) Shock, etc., and its Treatment.—Shock results from injury to large surfaces or from the implication of important organs in crushes or buffer accidents; sometimes there is marked shock, mental in character, following mild assaults. In railway accidents and in intoxi- cated persons the onset of shock may be delayed some hours. The chief symptom of marked cases is great depression of all the vital powers, and constant attention is needed to produce reaction; rest and warmth are to be combined with vigorous chafing of the limbs with hot cloths, raw brandy sponged round the mouth, and tcaspoonfuls of hot stinuilants given witli caution lest sickness be produced. In concihssion unconsciousness is, as a rule, of short duration, and continuance of it longer than some minutes would suggest the possibility of more serious injury to the substance of the brain. A blow on the chin, falls on the buttocks or feet when the spine is straight and rigid, are the common indirect causes of concussion. However slight the concussion may be, care should be taken in the treatment; the body warmth is to be maintained, and absolute rest to all the senses; alcohol, except in very severe cases, should be avoided, and later when re- action sets in a dose of opening medicine is advisable. This condition of concussion may pass into compression; frequently, however, there is re- covery from unconsciousness, and then a gradual relapse with motor paralysis, the bladder re- quiring to be emptied. When doubt exists as to the diagnosis from sunsti'oke, exposure to cold, apoplexy, or neurotic poisoning, the patient should be carefully watched before active inter- ference is undertaken, the treatment in the meantime being the same as for concussion. AsjJi/jxia, due to mechanical interference with the o.xj'genation of the blood, occurs in strangulation or hanging, foreign bodies in the air - passages, oedema following scalds, wasp stings, and corrosive poisons; in addition it is seen in drowning, and where there has been exposure to gases either incompatible with life or poisonous in their nature, as carbonic oxide. The treatment in all such cases is to remove the cause as far as possible, and adopt artificial respiration, which should be continued as long as there is a suspicion of the heart beating. It does not always follow that recovery takes place after the re-establishment of I'espiration ; all such cases should then be carefully watched. Foreign bodies about the air-passages re(iuire prompt treatment, the finger should be swept over the back of the throat, and this failing, the trachea must be opened with whatever sharp knife comes to hand, a hairpin will keep the lips of the wound apart while artificial respira- tion, if needed, is carried out. If blood be entering the trachea the head should be turned well to the side. The oedema which follows scalds, wasp stings, aird corrosive poison comes on very rapidly. If there is time the inhalation of steam should be tried, and failing this, together with indrawing of the chest with inspiration, the trachea must be opened. The treatment of the apparently drowned is to remove weeds or other foreign bodies from the throat, then to empty the air-passages of water by squeezing the chest and inversion, finally carrying out artificial respiration. When poisonous gases overcome an individual, as is seen in coal mines, sewers, near limekilns, etc., removal to fresh air is the first treatment, and then the carrying out of artificial respira- tion. In all cases marked cyanosis not tending to disappear should be treated by the opening of a vein and the withdrawal of blood which is embarrassing the right side of the heart. (tSee " Asphyxia.") (ii.) Improvised Dressings and Splints.—All wounds should be washed with some emergency antiseptic, the most readily obtained being tur- pentine and alcohol, the latter used diluted with an equal quantity of water; cinders and other foreign bodies should be removed as far as possible and a dressing applied. Such dressing- should consist of a piece of clean linen dipped in one of the emergency antiseptics, or when the wound is an incised one a piece of tinfoil or waterproof may be apjjlied and kept in place by means of some improvised bandage, the tri- angular bandage being more easily obtained and applied than the roller. It is made as follows : —A piece of cloth, some two to three feet square, is divided diagonally to form two triangles; the chief jioints in each triangle are the base AB, and the a^^ex C. As a triangle it is used to cover in large areas and to make slings, but when smaller surfaces are to be bandaged the triangle must be folded, the apex C to the base line AB, and the area left once again folded towards the base line; the result is known as the broad bandage ; folding this broad bandage once again towards the base line makes the narroiv bandage. In band;iging the liead for large scalp wounds the open triangle is used; its apex placed over the root of the nose, laterally, or even the occiput, and the base line AB, which lies on the opposite side, is then carried round the head, keeping well below the occiput and just above the eyebrows; it is then knotted and the apex pinned over or included in the knot. Wounds in the region of the eye are covered by the narrow bandage, wliich encircles and passes obliquely round the head. When the