493 GOUT Alimentary System The gastro-intestinal tract is in the closest sympathy with the cutaneous system, and there is every reason to believe that the various nervous and vascular disturbances in the latter are represented by analogous changes in the in- ternal continuation of the epithelial covering. There is no doubt that some of the most trouble- some cases of irregular gout are those whose symptoms are referred to the digestive tract, and nowhere more than in this system do we find good illustrations of the docti'ine of metastasis. Tlio nature of the symptoms varies considerably in different cases. In one case they are sudden in onset, sharp and fugitive in nature, and give place to definite articular or other manifesta- tions. For example, a sudden gastralgia with associated derangement of the digestive functions develops, persists, it may be, for a few days, and suddenly disappears, coincidently with the de- velojjment of an eczema, an arthritic attack, or an urticaria, and vice versa. Acute attacks of abdominal pains {entera/f/i((), with a varying amount of constitiitional disturbance, are also seen in undoubtedly gouty subjects, and the clinical appearances and course under treatment may leave no room for doubt as to tlie accuracy of the diagnosis. Apai't from these more purely nervous mani- festations, catarrhal states of the mucous mem- brane are prone to occur. Pharyngitis, acute or chronic, is the most common, but gastro-enteritis is also met with. The very acute congestion and swelling of the pillars of the fauces, uvula, and tonsils, often with distension of the super- ficial veins, form a quite characteristic picture. Parotitis is a rare incident in the gouty, and when present seriously interferes with mastica- tion and deglutition. It usually develops sud- denly, persists for a few hours, and disappears. In the more asthenic type of the disease the dysjxptic symptoms are more those of chronic enfeeblement of the digestive powers, the more important signs being epigastric pain or discom- fort, attended by waterbrash and slight flatu- lence (" acidity "), some depression in spirits, and other evidences of deranged metabolism. This class of case is specially liable to show some obvious urinary aV)normality, e.fi. lithajmia or phospliaturia, which conditions may alternate. In other cases we find slight attacks of gastric catarrh, usually termed l;)iliousness, character- ised by loss of appetite, furred tongue, foul breath, and constipation. While we must admit tliat all these symptoms are commonly seen independently of gout, this should in no way interfere with our recognition of their gouty origin in many cases. A few authentic cases have been recorded which re- vealed unmistakable post-mortem evidences of uratic deposit in the alimentary tract, and such are probably present, though in very small amount, to a greater extent than has been described. And further, we must bear in mind that the uratic deposit is a late sequel and an inconstant feature of the disease. Its presence is con- clusive proof of its existence, but its absence in no way negatives it. We must remember the incessant nature and also the rapidity of the chemical changes occurring in the digestive tract, the liver, and tissues generally. If the views put forward under etiology are correct (p. 501), the relationship between various foods, liquids, etc., and gouty symptoms becomes a little more clearly defined and understood. A careful study of the general and hereditary history and clinical features of each case will usually suffice to determine its exact nature, and the more thoroughly various minor dis- orders are studied, the more evidence will they frequently afford of their origin from a common stock. To what extent are the so-called functional diseases of tlie liver associated with gout ? Alike from the important action of the liver on the carbohydrates of the food, and in the formation of urea {vide " Liver, Physiology of"), we have ample evidence in support of the view that in gout, and perhaps even more particularly in iiTegular gout, liver derangement plays an im- portant part. But the exact nature of the dei-angements in function induced by temporary vascular and other alterations is qtiite unknown. It is complicated and probably also inconstant, and with our present knowledge, we must be satisfied with a few general reflections gained from empirical treatment (vide " Liver, Dis- eases OF, Functional "). This will be further referred to under " Uric Acid." Tlie last point that calls for reference is con- stipation. Gouty subjects are much moi'e prone to the injurious effects of constipation of even a slight degree than non-gouty individuals. Renal System The hereditary influences of gout frecjucntly show their earliest indication in connection with the urinary system. Gibbons, in an interesting paper, 1 has drawn attention to the frequent occurrence of renal colic in infants of gouty stock. This is further emphasised by the follow- ing cases lately recorded to the writer by a medical friend, liimself a martyr to gout. His personal history is as follows : Acute gout, twice, in ball of right great toe, gouty dyspepsia, dry eczema on skin, grooved and fissured nails, and one joint of right hand deformed and ankylosed. Three of his children have exhibited symptoms. The youngest, when an infant, was severely troubled with disordered micturition, and bladder irritation, with passage of much free uric acid; another was troubled when a boy with hajmaturia due to the passage of large 1 Med.-Chir. TraiisactwHS,\6\, Ixxix. 1896.