EMBEYOLOGY, HUMAN 100 or epiphysis. The rest of the roof-plate in front of the pineal elevation represents the velum interpositnm of adult anatomy ; it forms a ridge at first, but soon becomes a thin membrane upon which at a later date blood-vessels arrange them- selves, and the whole structure is invaginated into the third ventricle, as the choroid plexus. The dorsal zones of the lateral walls thicken, and towards the end of the fifth week begin to project inwards into the cavity of the ventricle as the optic thalami. Behind the optic thalami are other thickenings giving rise to the pulvinares and the external geniculate bodies. The ventral zones become the subthalamic regions, and in them or perhaps in the floor-plate are developed the corpora albicantia (raammillary tubercles). In front of the diencephalon is the telencephalon or hemisphere-brain. It has, as we have already seen in the end of the fourth week, a median portion which contains the anterior part of the third ventricle, and two lateral outgrowths, the cerebral hemispheres. The roof of the median portion is converted into the anterior part of the velum interpositnm. From its dorsal zones arise the optic evaginations, as has already been pointed out; while the ventral zones form the anterior part of the subthalamic regions. In the floor-plate is the evagination of the hypo- physis which during this week comes into contact with the invagination of the roof of the oral cavity to form with it the pituitary body. The cerebral hemispheres arise from the sides of the dorsal zones, and also get a prolongation of the roof-plate or velum interpositnm. In the ventral part of the wall of each a thickening is to be noted, the futui'e corpus striatum, and in the more dorsal pai-t is the mantle or pallial portion of the hemisphere. The cavities of the hemi- spheres ai-e, of course, the lateral ventricles, and into them project the choroidal folds which do not at this date possess blood-vessels. In this relation are to be observed the arcuate and choroidal fissures. In the floor of the telen- cephalon the tuber cinereum appears. The first indication of the falx cerebri is found lying in the longitudinal fissure between the two cerebral hemispheres. There are as yet no traces of the corpus callosum or fornix. The olfactory lobes can now be recognised as areas on the ventral surface of the cerebral hemispheres ; they are at first hollow and later become solid, and finally (third month) give rise to the olfactory bulbs and stalks and to the olfactory tracts, trigone, and anterior perforated spaces. The origins of the cranial nerves as they exist in the fourth week have been already sketched ; but some further developments may here be noted. During the fifth week the olfactory nerves are much more distinctly indicated than in the preceding week ; the olfactory ganglion is produced, its cells assume the bipolar form, and by the elongation of their poles on the one side they come into relation with the brain, while on the other side they join the olfactory epithelium. In His' embryo Ko (a fifth week specimen), the ganglia and trunks of the third (oculo-motor), fourth (trochlear), fifth (trige- minus), seventh (facial), eighth (acoustic), ninth (glosso - pharyngeal), tenth (vagus), eleventh (spinal - accessory), and twelfth (hypoglossal) nerves can all be much more clearly traced than in fourth week embryos. The sixth (abducens) nerve is composed entirely of fibres arising in the ventral or basal zone of the hind-brain ; it has no ganglion. The eighth nerve has a vestibular and a cochlear branch; at this time the ear has advanced in development, the semicircular canals have commenced to form, and the twisting of the cochlea has begun. The eleventh nerve and its branches have practically their adult relations in this week of embryonic life, and the twelfth (hypoglossal) nerve passes round the sinus cervi- calis and then curves forward into the tongue. The alimentary system, in the fifth week, shows some increase in complexity. The oral cavity is not yet shut off from the nasal. The front of the tongue is mai'ked off from the back by two oblique lines which begin at the foramen C£ecum and form an open V ; the anterior part is developed from the tuberculum impar, and the posterior from the region of the second and third branchial arches (ventral ends). At the opening (the future foramen cEecum) is the orifice of the duct of the median part of the thyroid gland (thyroglossal duct); it loses its lumen and begins to atrophy at the fifth week. Towards the end of the week a longitudinal ridge appears on each side in the floor of the mouth in the part known as the alveolo-lingual groove; this is the anlage of the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct. The pharynx is still relatively large, being equal to about half the length of the alimentary canal. The pharyngeal pouches are beginning to imdergo the series of changes which transform them into permanent structures; for example, the first pouch, on each side, is being shut oft' to form the tympanic cavity at one end and the future Eustachian tube at the other, the " closing membrane" persisting as the tympanum; the median lobe of the thyroid gland is related to the anterior ends of the second pair of pouches; and from each of the two fourth pouches arises a ventral prolongation or diverticulum, which becomes the anlage of one of the two lateral lobes of the thyroid gland. At a later date (sixth week) evaginations from the third pair of pockets give origin to the epithelial parts of the thymus gland. The opening of the trachea into the pharynx is slit-like; in front is the anlage of the epi- glottis, and at the sides are the arytenoid ridges whose thickened epithelium almost closes the opening; in the ridges, on each side, are two pro- jections, the cuneiform and cornicular tubercles. There are as yet no traces of the cartilages of the larynx; these appear at the seventh week.