GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DLSEASES OF 373 the condition of the bile, which may or may not be pathologicaL Practically invariably in cholelithiasis, or in any inflammatory condition affecting the bile channels, the contents of the gall-bladder and ducts contain pyogenic microbes, and if, in the presence of these, the ducts or gall-bladder are so injured as to lead to extrava- sation, an acute septic peritonitis is set up, which, unless promptly treated, is very apt to end fatally. Adequate siu'gical treatment carried out shortly after rupture, has on several occa- sions yielded good results. Where, however, the bile is normal, no micro-organisms are present, and, even if extravasation takes place, there is less risk of immediate septic peritonitis ; though, if the extravasated fluid be not removed, pei'itonitis will certainly supervene sooner or later. Many of the recorded cases of rupture of the gall-bladder have occurred from comparatively slight sudden pressure, induced by straining at stool, by vomiting, by sneezing, or by blows over the hepatic region ; but in these cases, in all probability, there has been predisposition to rupture in the shape of thinning from idcera- tion or long-continued distension. The course and symptoms in such a case will be those of perforation of the gall-bladder, a subject which will be considered below. In non-pathological conditions of the gall- bladder and bile ducts the injiu'ies, in the reported cases, have taken the shape of gun- shot wounds, of perforating abdominal wounds by sharp instruments, or of the passage of a heavy conveyance over the hepatic area. In cases where a perforating abdominal wound is present operation would probably be done as soon as possible, and before any symptoms pointing directly to injury to the bile channels had arisen. On the true nature of the con- dition being determined the extravasated bile should be mopped out by sponges, the rent in the viscus closed by Lembert sutures, and drainage of the right kidney pouch established. If the patient does not die from the shock of the injury, and operation is undertaken suf- ficiently early, the chances of recovery from such a condition should be very good. Where the injury has resulted from the passage of a heavy body over the abdomen, there has not in uncomplicated cases been much evidence at first of any serious visceral lesion. In a few days after the accident, jaundice will appear along with symptoms of peritonitis, which may become general, and though not at the outset very acute, it ultimately becomes so. Examination of the abdomen will give evidence of the presence of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity, and the stools will ho clay-coloured or paler than normal. Whenever it is clear that there has been escape of bile into the peritoneal cavity the abdomen should be opened, the free fluid mopped out by sponges if localised, or flushed out by sterile normal salt solution if free in the general cavity of the peritoneum, and the wound closed if possible, and drainage of the abdomen established. If this course is pursued the prognosis is not hopeless. In one case recovery took place, although the operation was not undertaken until thirty days after the injury to the bile channels. Cholelithiasis Though gall-stones are extremely frequent, various estimates giving them as occurring in from 4 to 12 per cent of all autopsies, yet it is only in a minority that any distinct clinical evidence of their presence is afforded. In number and size the gall-stones found vary greatly in different cases. Occasionally a single stone is found, while as many as 7802 have been obtained in one case; they may be so small as just to be percej^tible, while, on the other hand, one has been described 5 inches by 1-1 in. As a rule a single stone is rounded or pyriform, but when many are present they are more usually small and faceted. In colour they vary from almost pure white to dark olive green, according to the relative amount of bile pigment present. As might be supposed from their being composed almost entirely of choles- terin, they are at times sufficiently soft to be readily crushed between the finger and thumb, V)ut on the other hand they may be firm and hard. Their specific gravity is just above that of water. The cholesterin, which is the main constituent in a biliary calculus, is derived, not as used to be thought, from the bile, but from the epithelial lining of the gall-bladder or bile ducts; indeed, the excretion from mucous membranes generally, especially if inflamed, contains quite as large a proportion of cholesterin as does the bile. It seems probable, therefore, that the origin of gall-stones is to be sought, not in any altera- tion in the characters or rate of flow of the bile, but rather in a local condition of the mucous membrane of the bile passages. During the last twenty years from all sides evidence has been accumulating which tends to show that this preliminary condition consists of a bacterial infection of the liile channels from the intestine. Normally bile is sterile, but in practically all cases of cholelithiasis micro-organisms can be obtained if carefully searched for*. As a rule the liacillus coli communis is the microbe found, but the typhoid bacillus, staphylococci, and streptococci have also been found, and it is probaV)le that other bacteria may induce a cholangitis sufficient to give rise to a hyper- secretion of cholesterin. More recently gall-stones have actually been experimentally produced by inserting into the