ERYTHEMA 179 mostly of unknown pathology, to whicli the name erythema has been given, and which have no known relationship to the preceding forms. I. Erythema due to Local Irritation and OF Limited Extent.—(a) From heat {E. mlori- cmn); (b) from light (jE. solare).—Neither of these two forms requires any further discussion here, as both ai'e merely tlie first stages of acute dermatitis, {c) From friction {E. paratrininia). —Tliis term, though if it were used correctly it would be limited to erythema from friction, is more generally applied to the hyperjemia occur- ring in parts which have been subject to pres- sure when that pressure is removed, e.g. the sacrum and trochanters of a bedridden patient. If the affected skin is not carefully looked after in such cases by relieving the pressure with suitable pads, water-bed, etc., the process will rapidly pass on into local gangrene and bedsore, (c/) From friction combined with chemical irri- tation {E. intertrigo).—In this form the skin is irritated partly by the rubbing of one surface against another, partly by the decomposition of the secretions which are locked up between warm cutaneous folds and px'evented from evaporating. If left luiattended to the j^arts soon become acutely inflamed, and a condition indistinguish- able from eczema is set up {Eczema intertrigo). All that is necessary in the early stage is to carefully cleanse the parts and dry them, after- wards keeping them separated by means of suit- able powders and lint, or by interposing one of Unna's powder bags between the contiguous surfaces. The disease occurs most commonly between the thighs and nates of children, or beneath the breasts and abdomen of fat adults. Closely allied to this form is the Erythema gluteals of infants, which is produced not so much by friction of opposing surfaces of skin as by the constant maceration of the skin by the decomposing urine on the diapers. This form has some importance, first, because of its liability to go on to troublesome inflammation and even ulceration if neglected; secondly, because of the extreme difliculty which is often found in dis- tinguishing it from congenital syphilis. The points to be attended to are the following :— Diaper rash seldom extends below the knees, while syphilis is very likely to be found on the soles of the feet; diaper rash begins as minute papules with little or no induration, while syphilis usually shows itself as rather larger papules with very definite induration. Lastly, if no other indications of syphilis are present the child should be treated with some non-mer- curial local application, such as Lassar's zinc paste, ^ and the further evolution of the rash watched for a day or two. (e) From the effects of locally applied drugs and other irritants {E. venenatmn).—See "Dermatitis venenata." (/) ' B Acid, salicyl. gr. x., Pulv. aniyli. Zinci oxidi fiaoij-, Vaseline 5ss. From cold.—This may be localised or generalised, and is usually seen as a passive hypencmia due to the contraction of the cutaneous arterioles and consequent stagnation of the blood in the capillaries from diminution of the vis a tergo. After the arterial spasm has passed off, a strong, active hyperfcmia usually sets in, causing the original cyanotic mottling {Livedo annulare) to disappear and to be replaced by a general hot redness of the whole body or the part affected. The same train of symptoms is said to be occa- sionally seen from exposure to heat, {g) From circulatory obstruction {E. leve).—This form is often seen in patients suffering from cardiac weakness and oedema of the legs. Its signifi- cance is ominous, since, if the legs are not quickly relieved by draining the fluid away under the strictest antiseptic precautions, cellu- litis and gangrene are almost certain to occur. n. Generalised Erythemata.—(A) Roseo- lous and .icarlatiniform erythemata. — Some authors have attempted to separate these two forms, placing the former under the heading of congestive, and the latter under exudative erythemata. There seems, however, to be no reason for this either in their clinical appearance or in their pathology, so far as it is known. Roseola is the name applied when the rash appears as rather large macules, thus simulating measles. It is commoner in children than in adults, probably owing to the greater excitability of the central nervous system. There is generally some malaise preceding the eruption, and often some slight elevation of the tempera- ture. The rash may come out on any part of the body or limbs, having no site of predilection such as is usually found in measles. In some cases the rash never completely generalises, remaining more or less limited to the site where it first appears. The macules are usually from the size of a lentil to that of the thumb-nail, and are arranged either irregularly or in crescentic form. The diagnosis has to be made from measles and from rotheln, and is by no means always easy. From the former the points of distinction are :—The constitutional distui'bance is not usually so severe in roseola as in measles, and the other symptoms of measles, coryza and conjunctivitis, are absent. Further, if the case be seen early, or the history be very clear, it may be possible to find out the site first attacked by the eruption ; or again, should the eruption never become generalised this would be of assistance. From rotheln the diagnosis is apt to present still more difficulty, and must be often impossible ; but the enlargement of the occipital and mastoid glands, especially if any history of exposure to infection were forth- coming, would help in the diagnosis. Erythema scarlatiniforme occui's more fre- quently in adults. The prodromal symptoms, when present, are similar to those of the