EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 88 dorsal parietal recesses becomes the pleuro- peritoneal cavity. By the end of the third week the liver diverticulum, now enlarged and branching, is found embedded in the septum transversum. Through the descent of the septum all these associated parts greatly change their relations to the framework of the body. At this date, also; traces of the Wolffian bodies can be recognised as little canals in the Wolffian ridges; the latter are longitudinal ridges, one on each side of the dorsal surface of the coelom of the abdomen. The tubules of the Wolffian body (mesonephros) are evidently de- veloped from the nephrotomes or intermediate cell masses of the primitive segments of the neigh- bourhood. The blood from these bodies passes to the cardinal veins. Thirty or more primitive segments or protovertebrte can be recognised (His' Embryos BB and Lr), and the dorsal flexure has now disappeared, a convexity taking the place of the concavity which was present at the beginning of the third week. A tendency is present for the embryo to bend forwards, the cephalic and caudal extremities approximating, and this tendency becomes more evident in the fourth week. The curving forward of the caudal end of the body brings the insertion of the Bauchstiel still more to the front, and so it and the umbilical vesicle lie nearer to each other than formerly. Recapitulation Thus, in these two weeks, we see the embryo de- veloping from a mere disc of tissue resting upon a relatively large umbilical vesicle into an organism with a circulatory apparatus, a series of vesicles constituting a nervous system, an intestinal canal, a body cavity with a commencing septum dividing it into a thoracic and an abdominal portion, a mouth consisting of a five-sided fossa, a pharynx with branchial arches and clefts, a series of mesodermic somites or primitive seg- ments, and rudiments of eyes, ears, and Wolffian bodies. tThis organism no longer rests, in- significant in size, upon its umbilical vesicle, but is of relatively considerable size, and has its umbilical vesicle appended to it by a recognis- able vitelline stalk. All these structures have appeared dui-ing these eventful weeks ; and they have come into being by a series of changes of which we know very little from the direct ex- amination of human embryos, but about which embryologists have formed many theories from the observation of the early stages of develop- ment in the lower animals. We cannot, in con- sequence, be at all sure of the manner in which many of the transformations and alterations have been produced. We know nothing, for instance, of the way in which the neurenteric canal is closed, and but little of the relation of the allantoic stalk to the Bauchstiel. In which- ever direction we attempt to follow out the problems of the subject, we immediately feel the pressure of the limitations of our knowledge. At the same time the feeling of restriction thus produced must not be suftered to engender in us the idea that we are disqualified from idti- mately searching out the secrets of organo- genesis. When we think of the progress that has been made in the last twenty years, when we reflect how much the finding of such a specimen as Peters' early ovum may mean for the elucidation of our problems, and when we remember the hundreds of skilled workers en- gaged in this field of research, we take corn-age again and press forward. Every advance, it is true, but adds to our perception of the regions yet unknown; but this was to be expected, for the domain of Embryology is of vast extent. We are not, therefore, to be hindered but stimulated by the prospect ever opening up before us; the wider view is in itself a gain. Let us then go on carefully preserving early embryos, cutting them in serial sections, and reconstructing them again, so as to obtain an intimate knowledge of their inmost constitution. Scarcely any two will be found perfectly alike, and we may at any time make a discovery rivalling that of the detection of the neurenteric canal in the human embryo. Let us also examine all uteri and appendages removed by hysterectomy, vaginal or abdominal; such operations are common nowadays; we may thus add to the number of the known specimens of early ova in situ in the uterus, we may even find an impregnated ovum in the tube on its way thither. The Embryo in the Fourth Week In the previous section an attempt was made to place in graphic fashion before the reader's mind a picture of the conditions found inside the uterus during the second and third weeks after impregnation. The picture was confessedly an imperfect one: many details were dimly represented because imperfectly known ; others were only, so to say, outlined in the rough ; while others were altogether wanting. Yet, after all, some idea was gained of the nature of the processes of organogenesis going on at this period of antenatal life. Let us now, in this section, try to do at least as much for the fourth week of embryonic existence. The attempt is likely to be more successful, for the luimber of known and examined specimens of embryos of this period is much larger than at the earlier dates. Let us pursue the same plan and consider first the extra-embryonic parts of the gestation sac and then the embryo itself. Extra-embryonic Parts in the Fourth Week Regarding the decidual membranes at this period of intra-uterine life we gain some informa- tion from the description given by E. Fraenkel (Arch. f. Gynoclc, xlvii. 139, 1894) of an aborted ovum, three and a half weeks old, and containing