FILARIASIS 288 liver, in vomited matter, etc. Even where the females lie encysted outside the vessels the embryos make their way into the circulation. The parasites inhabiting a single host may number from one to fifty, the males usually being present as one to two or three females, whilst at other times only males or only females can be found. The mass of tangled worms may at times olastruct the circulation within the cavities of the heart, i The lesions produced by the worms vary very much according to the part occupied. When situated in the heart, they usually produce hypertrophy, and more or less endocarditis, whilst in the vessels they may produce endarteritis, thrombi, etc. According to Galeb and Pourquier the embryos may pass into the fcetal circidation, but it appears as if they did not develop there. The symptoms naturally vary greatly; weakness, anaemia, cough, icterus ascites, and lameness may be observed, and a fatal result is frequent. No effective treatment is known. XIX. Filaria recondita,'^ Grassi, 1890.—The embryos of this parasite are known as the " Hsematozoa of Lewis" (Grassi). Only a female of this parasite is known, having been found by Grassi, after much difficulty, lying (not encysted) in the adipose tissue near the hilum of a dog's kidney. The female was not quite mature. The embryos had been observed by Gruby and Delafond, who estimated that 11,000 to 224,000 might be present in a single dog. The embryos live about ten days in blood kept at 15° C. If injected into the circulation of dogs they disappear after from eight to forty days, or may persist in the blood for years. Injected into rabbits, they dis- appeared in about a month. In Paris 4-5 per cent of the dogs were found to harbour the parasite, whilst in China, Calcutta, and Pisa about 30 per cent of all dogs are affected (Gruby and Delafond, Manson, Lewis, Sonsino). The parasite produces usually no pathogenetic effects, but the two authors named above noted epileptiform seizures in three dogs, two of which died. No effectual treatment is known. The female worm is 3 cm. long by 0-178 mm. wide. It is transparent, tapers (more posterioi'ly) toward the extremities, which are blunt, whilst anteriorly four small papillae are seen close to the mouth. The posterior extremity exhibits one terminal and two lateral papillae, as also small lateral projections. The mouth is succeeded by a very short cylindrical pharynx. The anus is 228 /a distant from the tip of the tail. The uterus is double (it contained neither ^ A. B. Shipley (Proc. Gamhridrje Phil. Soc. viii. pt. iii. 1894) reports an interesting case in this connection, and gives a figure of the heart of a dog from Fiji. - Sonsino (personal communication, Dec. 1899) con- siders it doubtful that this is a "good species," the determination having been made upon a single female specimen. eggs nor embryos), whilst the vulva is about 840 /X behind the mouth. Integument smooth. In 1888 Grassi observed that a great resem- blance existed between the embryos of this worm, as found in fleas, and those described by Manson as occuriing in the mosquito (CideK pipiens), which the latter regarded as stages in the development of Filaria Bancrofti. Grassi saw thirty to fifty embryos in a single flea, and found them in various stages of development, both in the intestine and body-cavity of the insect. The parasites also exhibited the sausage shape and the form with three caudal papillae, such as Manson observed in F. Bancrofti embryos developing in mosquitoes. As Grassi (1890) was able to determine, the " Haematozoon of Lewis" undergoes a metamorphosis in the dog-flea {Pulex serraticeps), in the cat-flea (which some consider to be but a variety of the former), in Pulex irritans, which is often found on dogs, as also in a tick (Phijncephahis siculus, Koch). The embryos of this filaria, which were first accin-ately described by Lewis (1875), were found by Grassi to perforate the intestinal wall of the flea, which had ingested blood containing the parasites. The latter then made their way into the fatty tissue, where they are almost always to be found lying singly in the fat-cells. These cells increase in size with the growth of the parasites, which lie curled up within the cell, its nucleus remaining uninjured. Grassi believes the worms may also undergo develop- ment outside of cells, and he observed them' lying within the eggs of gravid fleas, as also in the cysticercoid of Dipylidium caninum. The worm-embryos undergo four stages of develop- ment, within the flea, in which insect Grassi and Calandruccio especially studied their de- velopment until almost completed. Infection experiments with fleas gave no positive residt, which may have been due to the parasites not^ being fully developed. Grassi dwells on the resemblance between these observations and those made by Manson on F. Bancrofti, and figures the •^developmental changes above de- scribed. XX. Filaria irritans, Rivolta. Syn.: Dermo- filaria irr-itans, Riv., 1884; F. irritans, Railliet, "1885.—Found by Rivolta (1868) in the "summer sores " or " granular dermatitis " of a horse, and subsequently by Laulanie (1884). The worm also affects donkeys. The disease, which is observed in summer and in hot countries, was described by Bouley in 1850. It is character- ised by the presence ("au milieu de bourgeons charnus ") in the centre of fleshy protuberances of granulations the size of a millet-seed or pea, which are composed of a cheesy or calcareous substance. These granulations contain the worm, its remains, or the remains of its former habitat. The sores spread rapidly, persist a long time, and are the seat of continued pruritus.