GOUT 519 beverage is a more active poison to her than to many others of apparently equal gouty pro- clivity. The diagnosis is quite assured in this case, and the earlier manifestations of neuralgic pains, etc., may be compared with case 1, where the earlier symptoms were more vascular in origin, it has long been recognised that a proneness to inflanmiatory conditions of the pei'ipheral nerves, and to a weakness in the vascular system (which may, of course, be partly of nervous origin) are characteristic of inherited gout. This relation- ship has been emphasised by Hutchinson. Care must, of course, bo taken in these nervous cases to differentiate rheumatism, and while this may be difficult and often impossible, in not a few cases an honest and accurate diagnosis of gout may be arrived at. What is the appropriate treatment? We have here an adult woman in comfortable cir- cumstances, living a town life, with a husband and two children to look after, accustomed to good living, and not in the habit of always taking exercise proportionate to the full diet enjoyed. In view of these special circumstances we must not be surprised if good results are less readily obtained, nor will it be surprising if more attention requires to be devoted to pro- moting the functions of the excretory organs and getting rid of the accumulated products of deficient combustion in the body. These can be judiciously influenced by exercise as illustrated by the following :—Some years ago a fi'iend of the writer, a typical example of plethoric gout, sought advice from her consulting physician for various acute gouty manifestations to which she was a victim. She was I'ecommended a very strict diet, and one which could not easily be given effect to even in a large, well-regulated household ; she declined the recommendations, stating that she would rather die, a statement which those who knew her appetite and mode of living could quite believe. She then dis- cussed the matter with an intimate lay friend, who suggested that she should not over-eat, and should buy a bicycle and ride it. She accepted the recommendations, regarding the former as in the light of a compromise with the advice of her medical adviser, and from that time until now she has been remarkably, although not entirely, free from all active manifestations. The special treatment may then be sum- marised as follows :— (i.) A slight all round restriction in the quantity of food consumed. The lunch to be mainly if not always a vegetable one, and I'ed meats to be replaced by chicken or fish for dinner, at least one day in the week. Sweets of all kinds only to be partaken of sparingly. The principal meal to be taken dry, one small glass of claret to be taken at dinner if desired. (This is the only wine for which she has a liking.) Beer is better avoided in this case. Water to be drunk freely between meals, and a tumbler of hot water taken at night. (ii.) More systematic exercise. Sharp walk- ing or cycling in place of driving, supplemented by ten minutes' physical exercise daily, prefer- ably after morning bath. (iii.) Attention to the bowels. As the bowels move daily without an aperient, all that is required is the use of a mild yet active saline every week or ten days. Further measures will probably be necessary at the monthly periods, as the patient, like many others of a like habit of body, is prone to undue states of depression in the premenstrual period. (iv.) Hydropathic Measures. If the foregoing measures are duly carried out, the only hydro- pathic measures called for will be fulfilled in the daily morning bath followed by active friction, supplemented by a hot bath once a week. But as a matter of experience, the first three measures are only imperfectly carried out, with the result that more active eliminative treatment becomes a necessity. The choice of a spa is in the main immaterial so long as the important elements of cure are secured. These are, a complete cliange of air and sin-roundings in a climate where temperatiu'e and other atmo- spheric influences will conduce to a reasonable amount of nmscidar activity, a simple diet, judiciously flushing out the system by a quan- tity of one to three pints or more fluid daily at intervals on an empty stomach, and a course of baths two to three times a week, adapted to promote vigour and tone in the skin. Special care has to be exercised in the amount of water to be drunk, and the number and form of the bath to be recommended in stout flabby subjects. While this jDatient is not flabby, she reacts xui- favourably to even a mild Turkish bath, and has also always reacted badly to cold sea bathing. 4. Mr. D.,1 38, tailor. Chronic tophaceous gout. Surgical interference. I have selected this case because it illustrates so well some other points in the management of gouty subjects. It is additionally interesting owing to its severity, such a case being almost unique in a Scottish hospital. My attention was first drawn to it by Mr. Alexis Thomson, under w-hose surgical care he was, and to him I am indebted for the record. During the past year I have taken an opportunity to see the patient frequently, and obtain from time to time an accurate record of the results of treat- ment. The successful results derived from the limited therapeutic measures employed cleai'ly indicate than any line of treatment found 1 The surgical aspects of this case are recorded in the Edinburgh Hospital BepoHs, vol. vi. "Gouty Formations in Tendon Sheaths, Bursas and Skin (with Photographs)." By Alexis Thomson.