FOOD 329 is rapid, and the flesh becomes pale, flaccid, and dropsical, and of a peculiar and unwholesome odour. Tlie intestines, especially the large in- testine, exhibit lesions which bear a resemblance to those of typhoid fever in man. Flesh from Animals which have died, or which have been damaged or killed by Accident.—The carcases of animals drowned or smothered or naturally dead are unbled and dark, abdominal parietes are stained, and signs of decomposition usually evident; such carcases should be con- demned. In cases of fractures, wounds, and bruises, if the animal be promptly slaughtered and bled, the damaged portions only should be condemned ; much depends on the extent of the injuries. Parasitic diseases by which the human lieing may be attacked are of great importance. Two at least may be received through the medium of pork, viz. the Taniada' and the Trichina spiralis. The encysted state of the Ttenia solium of man constitutes the Cysticercus cellulosce which commonly affects the pig, in which it gives rise to the disease known as "measles." The " measly " pork contains the scolex in its cyst; the cysts average the size of a small pea, and are found chiefly in the muscular tissues em- bedded between the fibres, voluntary or involun- tary, as well as in various organs; they arc not met with in the fat. The parasite is ditticult or impossible to detect during life, but is readily visible when the animal is killed and opened. Tlie carcase should be condemned and destroyed. Hams and bacon containing the remains of the parasite should be similarly dealt with. Tricldna spiralis is a small thread-like worm coiled in minute ovoid cysts within the mviscular fibres, and is found usually in the pig. Each cyst contains one immature trichina which is liberated when the capsule is dissolved by the processes of digestion. The liberated trichinfe develop rapidly, and give rise to the disease known as trichinosis. Careful examination is necessary for the detection of the trichinai; the pork appears speckled, and if a thin section be inuuersed in liquor potasste for a few minutes, and the translucent section examined with a lens, the coiled-up worm will be seen. All the flesh of an infected animal should be destroyed. Distoma hepaticum or fluke is commonly found in the liver of the sheep ; a few of these parasites, which are sole-shaped, and from half an inch to one inch in lengtli, are usually found in the liver of otherwise perfectly sound sheep, and exercise no prejudicial effect whatever upon tlie flesh, but as their numbers increase the results of pressure and obstruction to the flow of bile ensue ; jaundice, dropsy, diarrhoea, loss of hair, and emaciation set in rapidly, and "rot" results. The disease is met with in all parts of tiie country, but more especially in damp and Wet localities, and during the long-continued prevalence of wet weather; the eggs and the embryo are developed in water, and hence wet seasons encourage the spread of the disease. The carcase should be destroyed if it is deteriorated, and the liver should also be destroyed. Blown Veal and Lamb. — In many towns the practice still exists among the lower class of butchers, of blowing up, with the breath, the connective tissue of veal and lamb, and thereby giving an appearance of plumpness to poor meat; this disgusting fraud is completed by taking- melted fat into the mouth and blowing it over the freshly-dressed carcase. The practice is an offence against ordinary by-laws, and may be recognised by the emphysematous condition of meat which has been subjected to it. II. Fish Fish, either fresh or preserved, and shell-fish form an important share of the ordinary food- supply of families, some varieties being as nutri- tious as flesh foods and more easily digested. Immense quantities of fish are preserved in various ways and imported from distant places. The chief points to be noted in determining the wholesomcness of edible fresh fish are : (a) the freshness; {(i) the season in which they are on the market, as this is associated with tlieir condition as to spawning; (y) the places from wdiich they are taken, as the nature of their food is involved. With regard to (a) the fresh- ness, fish should be firm to the touch; the duration of the stiffiiess of recently caught fish depends upon the weather and passes off' in from six to twelve hours ; the eyes and skin should be bright and glistening, the gills bright red, unless dulled by ice ; no trace of offensive smell. Fish keep best if killed and gutted immediately they are caught; if dealt with in this way they remain fresh from two to three days longer; they deteriorate most quickly when caught by the gills in nets and allowed to die slowly in the water. Trawling boats going very long dis- tances to the fisheries are provided with chilling apparatus or ice, by means of which the fish can be brought in good condition from distant fishing grounds. In regard to the influence of season, most varieties of fish are decidedly out of condition during spawning, some also during the time preceding and following it; they be- come thin and lose their flavour. The time of spawning varies considerably; in the case of salmon, rivers are closed under statutory regula- tions from five to six months, usually from September to February, with a view as much to " preserve " the fish as to ensure wholesomcness; this close season varies in different districts, and smuggled salmon may be perfectly whole- some. The following table indicates the spawning- periods of the principal edible fishes; the black lines indicate the limits of the spawning period.