328 FOOD Frozen rabbits and frozen poultry have recently been imported in very large quantities, cargoes of many tons arriving in perfectly sound condition, in the case of rabbits from Australia and New Zealand, and in the case of poultry, chiefly from Canada. Characteeistics of Unsoundness In chronic disease the carcase is usually more or less emaciated, sometimes to an extreme degree. The flesh of diseased animals is pallid in appearance, and together with the connective tissue may be infiltrated with serum ; the fat and visceral connective tissue are also wet and flabby, and the fat will not set; occasionally the pleura is found to have been stripped off from the ribs to remove evidence of pulmonary disease. In acute inflammatory diseases the affected organ will present the ordinary signs of inflammation, but if the animal be slaughtered at an early stage of the disease, and is properly bled and dressed, the flesh is usually normal and sound ; if, however, the animal has not been killed until neai-ly moribund, or if the disease has made progress, the cai'case will be found to be red and congested from imperfect bleeding ; it does not set properly, the flesh is dark, dry, and sticky, and frequently giving off' an un- wholesome odour of drugs, which can be best detected by plunging a skewer deeply into the flesh and noting the smell upon withdrawal. Some important conditions affect the whole- someness of the flesh of animals used for food and have to be considered. Tuberculosis. — Cattle, pigs, poultry, and rarely sheep suffer from this disease. Cattle, more especially milch cows confined in dairies, are most prone to contract it. In early stages of the disease the flesh of the affected animal is normal and fit for food ; as the malady pro- gresses emaciation sets in, the carcase after slaughter is soft, skinny, and dropsical, the fat wet and flabby and presenting all the appear- ances of unsoundness. The Local Government Board in England have adopted the following recommendations of the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis as a guide to meat inspectors in the inspection of tuberculous carcases of cattle:— (a) When there is miliary tuber-^ culosis of both lungs (^) When tuberculous lesions are present on the pleura and peritoneum When tuberculous lesions are The entire carcase and present in the muscular sys- f all the or tern or in the lymphatic glands embedded in or be- tween the muscles {d) When tuberculous lesions exist in any part of an ema- ciated carcase gans may be seized. The carcase, if otherwise healthy, shall not be condemned, but every part of it containing tuberculous lesions shall be seized. (a) When the lesions are confined' to the lungs and the thor- acic lymphatic glands (6) When the lesions are con- fined to the liver (c) When the lesions are confined to the pharyngeal lymphatic glands {d) When the lesions are confined to any combination of the foregoing, but are collec- tively small in extent ) In view of the greater tendency to generalisa- tion of tuberculosis in the pig, we consider that the presence of tubercular deposit in any degree should involve seizure of the whole carcase and of the organs. In respect of foreign dead meat, seizure shall ensue in every case where the pleura have been •' stripped." Amongst acute diseases, pleurcj-pneumonia of the acute character is one of the most important. The usual pathological signs are met with in the lungs, and the extent to which the carcase is pre- judiced in respect to its fitness for human food will depend upon the degree to which the disease has advanced before the animal is slaughtered. Anthrax and anthracic diseases affect cattle, sheep, and sometimes pigs. The disease is rapidly fatal, and the local lesions in the glands, liver, and spleen develop rapidly, the flesh assuming a peculiar odour, and decomposing much sooner than usual. The carcase in every instance is unfit for human food and should be destroyed. " Braxy" is a term applied to a variety of conditions widely divergent. Wet braxy appears to include dropsical conditions in the sheep, red braxy is a term sometimes given in inflammatory and abnormal parturient conditions. The term also appears sometimes to be used as a synonym for anthrax. Under no circumstances should the flesh of an animal dying from anthrax or any allied disease be allowed to pass into the market. Foot and mouth disease is common amongst cattle, sheep, and pigs, and is associated with ulceration of the tongue and mucous membrane of the mouth, and with the formation of blisters around the hoofs. The disease is very infectious, but unless aggravated to an extent which has prevented the animal feeding, the flesh is not aifected, and presents the appearance of normal flesh, and may be safely used for food. Swine fever, known also as "purples," "swine typhoid, " soldier," etc., is a very acute and fatal contagious disease, which renders the flesh of the affected animal unfit for food. Red patches or blotches appear on the skin, the red- ness extending in a marked degree through the subcutaneous fat down to the flesh ; emaciation