149 EPIDEMIOLOGY countries. It is possible that in one country their seasonal prevalence may be determined by circumstances favouring their contagion, in anotlier by those favouring their infection. No doubt these two factors—contagion and infection —are not of equal importance in respect to their spread in all countries, nor in the same country at all times. Diphtheria in most countries is at its minimum in the third quarter and at its maximum in the fourth or first quarter. In London, Baltimore, Alexandria, and some other places the minimum falls on the second and the maximum on the third quarter. In England the more prevalent the disease is, the more pronounced is the autumn rise, a circumstance which seems to indicate that in epidemic years infection plays a greater part in its spread than in ordinary years. Scarlet fever differs entirely as regards the season of its maximum and minimum prevalence in different countries. In London it begins to increase in May, and its maximiun falls with great regularity on October; and it is note- worthy that its season has remained unchanged from the days of Sydenham. In Berlin, Ham- burg, Copenhagen, and the Netherlands the seasonal incidence of scaidet fever is similar to that of London, i.e. it is least prevalent in the second, and most prevalent in the fourth quarter. In Paris and in the United States its maximum and minimum are just reversed. The only ex- planation we can offer of this strange pheno- menon is that in some coimtries infection, in others contagion, plays the most important part in its spread. Small-pox and measles differ from all other epidemic diseases in respect to their seasonal fluctuations, and these practically correspond all over the world, and have remained unchanged from the earliest times. They were winter or spring diseases in the time of Rhazes; they are so now. They break out now in winter, now in spring. In one place winter outbreaks are more frequent; at another place spring epi- demics are more common; and, as we shall presently see,-the relative frequency of winter and spring explosions varies in the same place in different series of years. Chart III. repre- sents the monthly distribution of cases of measles in Edinburgh for ten years. It conveys the impression that the disease occurs con- tinuously all through the year, with two maxima, in April and December respectively, and two minima, falling the one in Decembex', the other in January. But if we look at Chart IV., re- presenting five of the ten years, it will be seen that distinct ei)idcmics occur either in spring or in the late autunm or winter. This seasonal incidence of the disease (and it is the same in small-pox) is observed all over the world, in North America as in Europe, and at correspond- ing seasons in the southern hemispheres. The explanation of the epidemic prevalence of measles and small-pox in winter and spring is not to be sought for in the action of meteoro- logical influences on their contagia, but in the effect of season on the susceptibility of the body generally, or on the vulnerability of the upper air-passages. The winter increase of small-pox all over the world coincides with the first notable fall in the temperature. It occurs in October in London and New York, in November and December in India, and at cor- responding sea- sons in the south- ern hemisphere. In London small- pox and measles begin to increase in the fortieth, and bronchitis in the forty-first week. From this we infer that the same climatic con- ditions which de- termine respira- tory affections also favour the in- fection of measles and small - pox. The change from winter to spring- once more upsets the physiological balance, and the great vicissitudes of temperature peculiar to this season render the system more susceptible to the infection. This explanation is in harmony with what we know of the action of climate in determining the seasonal prevalence of diseases due to non-obligatory parasites. Climate in this case acts by preparing the soil for their growth. It is the same in the case of the obligatory parasites. The soil of the obligatory parasite is the human body, and climatic conditions which render the body more suited for its reception and growth at one season than another deter- mine its seasonal prevalence. An important peculiarity in the seasonal fluctuations of small-pox and measles is that the mildness or severity of an epidemy has the efi'ect of changing its seasonal incidence. It will be seen from Chart V. that mild epidemies of measles fall on the fourth quarter, and severe ones on the second quarter. A somewhat similar change takes place in the seasonal prevalence of small-pox, as will l)e seen from Chart VI., the maximum in epidemic years being transferred from the first to the second quarter. It would appear that virulent waves both of measles and small-pox occur most frequently in Chart III. Me (Ediiiljuryli).