422 GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY lines down the whole length of the mucous membrane on the exposed surface of the pro- lapsed portion. The application of acid nitrate of mercury has also been recommended (Jacobson). Quite as important as the local treatment is the treatment of the constipation or diarrha3a or other cause to which the prolapse is due ; in many cases, indeed, this is all that is required. GastrO-jej Un ostomy.—An operation by which an artificial communication is estab- lished between the stomach and the jejunum; gastronesteostomy. Ga-StrolysiS. — An operation in which the abdomen is opened for the purpose of separating perigastric adhesions. See Stomach, Surgical Affections {Gastric Ulcer, Complica- tions, Treatment). Gastromalacia. — A post - mortem softeijing or digestion of the gastric mucous membrane, once regarded as an ante-mortem change. See Gastro-Intbstinal Disorders of Infancy {Diseases of the Stomach and Intestine, Softening of the St07iiach). GastromelUS.—A teratological type in which a supernumerary limb is found attached to the abdomen. See Teratology. Gastro - parasitus. - A group of double monsters (disomata) of the asymmetrical type in which theone twin (usually very imperfect) is attached as a parasite to the abdomen of the other, or lies within its peritoneal cavity {foetus infoetu). See Teratology. Gastropexy.—An operation in which the abdomen is opened for the purpose of shortening the superior attachments of the stomach, as in gastroptosis. See Stomach, Surgical Affections {Operations). Gastroplasty.—An operation performed for the relief of hour-glass stomach. See Stomach, Surgical Affections {Hcnir - Glass Stomach, Operations). Gastroplication. — An operation by which artificial folds are made in the walls of the stomach to diminish the size of the cavity of the viscus; it is performed in cases of dilated stomach, with or without gastroptosis. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Gastroec- tasis. Treatment); Stomach, Surgical Affections {Gastroectasis, Operations). Gastroptosis. — Downward displace- ment of the stomach, often associated with enteroptosis. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Morbid Anatomy, Gastroptosis) ; Stomach, Surgical Affections {GastrojJtosis, Operations) ; Enteroptosis {Diagnosis) ; In- digestion {Symptoms, Sensory). Gastrorrhag^ia. — Htemorrhage from the stomach. See HjEmatemesis ; Stomach, Sur- gical Affections of {Gastric Ulcer, Complica- tions, Hmnorrhage, Opieration). Gastrorrhaphy. — The closure of wounds of the abdomen or of the stomach, or (more recently) of a perforated gastric ulcer. See Stomach, Surgical Affections {Operations). GastrorrhexiS. — Rupture of the stomach. GastrOSChisiS.—Defect of the abdomi- nal walls with protrusion of the viscera. See Teratology. GastrOSpasm US. — Cramp of the stomach. Gastrostomy.—The establishment of a gastric fistula, as in cases of malignant or inno- cent stricture of the oesophagus, and in some instances of recent injuries to the oesophagus. See Stomach, Surgical Affections op {Opera- tions) ; CEsophagus, Injuries and Diseases of {Growths, Malignant, Treatment). Gastrotomy.—The operation of opening into the stomach by abdominal section and incision of the gastric wall, e.g. for the removal of a foreign body; the term was formerly em- ployed in the general sense of opening into the abdominal cavity, e.g. for ruptured uterus. GastroxynSis. — Periodical supersecre- tion of gastric juice, occurring in nervous dyspepsia, especially in cases of neurasthenia and locomotor ataxia {Bossbach). Gastrula.—When the single-walled blas- tula of germinal life becomes a double-walled sac (consisting of ectoderm and endoderm), it is named a gastrula; its cavity is the archen- teron, and the opening by which this cavity communicates with the exterior is the blasto- pore. Gauitheria.—The oil of wintergreen (Gaultherife Oleum) contains a large quantity of methyl salicylate, which gives it its medicinal properties ; it is given in doses of from 3 to 10 m. for the same purposes as the salicylates ; and it is included in the Indian and Colonial Addendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898. Gauze. See Bandages. Gavag^e.—The artificial feeding of infants {e.g. those with cleft palate or inability to swallow) by means of a stomach tube; milk is the liquid usually given, and may be that of the mother of the child or that of the cow. GeiasmuS.—Spasmodic laughter, usually hysterical in nature. See Hysteria.