EPILEPSY 160 disease, in both instances the fit having a local commencement. Loss of consciousness, how- ever, marks tlie attack as an epileptic, as dis- tinguished from a Jacksonian fit. Should un- consciousness be present in fits arising from cortical irritative disease, other evidence of intracranial new growth will probably be found. Most cases of infantile hemiplegia develop epileptic fits at some period of their existence. These attacks differ in no way from those of idiopathic epilepsy except in their local com- mencement, and in the fact that of the two sides the paralysed is the more extensively convulsed. A form of epileptic seizure characterised chiefly by vertigo may be difficult to recognise as of this nature. If evidence of gross intra- cranial disease is wanting, or if there is no labyrinthine condition likely to give rise to it, the following points would indicate its epileptic character: — There is a periodicity about its onset, it is rarely accompanied by vomiting, such as characterises auditory vertigo ; there is some, though slight, obscuration of consciousness, and it is amenable to treatment by the bromides. An epileptic fit characteristic in all its features occurring in an otherwise healthy adult person is highly suggestive of intracranial tumour. Prognosis.—Death during a fit, and as the direct sequence of the convulsion, is rare. Even when the fit is at its worst, and asphyxia seems imminent, recovery takes place. The epileptic may, however, be killed as an indirect result; thus he may fall and fracture the base of the skull, or he may tumble into water or into the fire. On the other hand, he may be suffocated by turning on to his face as a result of the con- vulsion. The question is often asked. Is there a cure of epilepsy ? There is no doubt that the pro- longed and judicious use of the bromides may keep down the seizures, and in several cases arrest them completely ; but it would be hazard- ous to say that in the latter instance the disease was cured. A good rule to apply in all cases in which bromide is well borne and of benefit is to continue its use for two years after the last attack, and even then it should not be suddenly stopped. It is also clear to those who had observed epileptics under the favourable circum- stances of an epileptic colony {vide " Colonies," p. 161), that change of environment may prove of the greatest possible service and even arrest the fits; but it is by no means certain that on the discharge of the patient from the colony after two or more years' freedom from attacks there may not be a recurrence under the less favourable conditions of daily work and making a living. The majority of epileptics show in process of time some mental deterioration {see " Epileptic Insanity"). The most favourable cases are those arising from scarlet fever without renal complications. Night fits are less influenced by treatment than those occurring only by day, and attacks of le petit mal are less susceptible to drugs than the severer forms. Medicinal Treatment. — Since Locock, in 18.57, introduced bromide of potassium in the treatment of epilepsy, this remedy and the salts of bromine with the other alkaline earths have been universally used to diminish the frequency and severity of the attacks as well as prevent their recurrence. Bromide of potassium is the remedy most commonly employed, but a com- bination of the bromides of potassium, sodium, and ammonium is of value in many cases. By far the largest number of cases do well under these salts, only in quite a minority they have 110 obvious influence upon the disease. The administration of the bromides should be con- tinued over a long period of time. In the cases in which the drug is of value, there is nothing more common than to see a recrudescence of the fits at any break in its administration. In addition to the effect of bromide upon the fits, it is also of influence in clearing up the asso- ciated mental condition. Bromide may be administered in several ways, either in doses of 10 to 20 grains three times a day, or half-drachm doses night and morning; a large dose, 40 to 60 grains, given at bed-time is especially recom- mended in the case of nocturnal and matutinal fits. Bromide is best administered about one hour after a meal. Children bear the drug well. If the onset of the fits is definitely periodic, or if a warning is given some time before its actual occurrence, a dose of bromide may often arrest or postpone the attack. " Bromism" may arise from the prolonged administration of bromides. This is a condition in which the patient becomes dull and lethargic, the sensibility blunted, the memory and intelli- gence impaired, his extremities cold, the speech slow and saliva often runs from the mouth. The use of bromide of potassium sometimes leads to an eruption of acne, a condition which is benefited by the salts of arsenic {see " Bromism "). Bi'omide is partly eliminated through the milk secretion, as "bromism" has been observed in children suckled by epileptic mothers under treatment by this drug. Bromide exhibited during pregnancy has no deleterious influence upon the foetus. Even in the most favourable cases it is not wise to stop its use until two years have elapsed after the last fit: it may then be diminished to a dose once or twice a week, the interval between the doses being gradually prolonged. Bromide may be satisfactorily combined with some other drug in special cases. In those with weak cardiac action the combination with tincture of digitalis is of service, while aconite or chloral may be judiciously given in those associated with a full and bounding pulse. In the young and anaemic it should be given along