363 FRACTURES Fractures of the shaft of the tibia and fibula are the result of direct violence, when the fractures are either transverse or comminuted, and the two bones are broken at the same level; or they are caused by indirect violence, when the tibia is broken first, the fibula yielding afterwards and at a higher point. A forcible muscular contraction is occasionally sufficient to fracture the tibia, the fibula breaking subsequently when an attempt is made by the patient to bear his •weight upon the injui'ed limb. The tibia is especially liable to be broken by torsion, and in these cases the line of fracture is often spiral, or the lower fragment is comminuted whilst the upper fragment terminates in a sharp V-shaped end which often penetrates the skin, making the fracture compound. The signs are usually so well marked that there is no difficulty in recognising the injury, though it is sometimes difficult to discover whether the fibula is bi-oken as well as the tibia. The prognosis varies with the severity of the injury, except in children. Good bony union nearly always takes place in a simple transverse fracture where there is little or no displacement. But when the fracture is com- minuted or oblique the repair is much less satis- factory, for it takes considerably longer, there is often impaired movement at the knee or ankle, and the patient may complain of rheu- matic pains for many years afterwards. The course taken by a compound fracture which has become septic is still more tedious, and in un- healthy people is often dangerous. In children ■of two or three years old the simplest fracture requires as much care in its treatment as the most severe, for I have several times seen so intractable a form of non-union as a result of of simple fracture that amputation has been required. Care during the first few minutes after a patient lias broken his leg will often save months of trouble, for thoughtless liystanders often try to set a man upon his legs when he has fallen, ov lift him so roughly or carelessly as to force the upper end of the broken tibia through the skin, thus converting a simple into a compound fracture. A doubtful injury to the leg should always be treated as a fracture, and the jiaticnt should be moved out of harm's way as gently as possible, some one supporting the injured limb and doing nothing else. An improvised splint should always be applied to the injured limb to steady it whilst the patient is being i-emoved to his home or a hospital. The two parts of the broken leg are to be kept in tlie same straight line, and the injured limb is on no account to be allowed to hang down, nor should any attempt be made to di-ag oft" the boot or stocking. It is best to lay the leg on a pillow or on a folded ■coat, a handkerchief being tied round the leg and its support above and below the seat of fracture, or two lateral splints may be impro- vised out of a couple of walking-sticks, umbrellas, or even newspapers folded lengthwise. The subsequent treatment varies with the severity of the injury and, perhaps more than any other fracture, with the school in which the surgeon was educated. Many surgeons content themselves in the simplest form of fracture with applying a plaster of Paris case at once ; others keep the patient in bed a week to allow the swelling to subside and then employ a plaster case ; whilst yet others, and I confess that my sympathies ai'e with them, keep the patient in bed for a longer time and sling the leg in a back splint. The plaster case consists of layers of house flannel shaped to fit the foot and leg (Fig. 20), and soaked in plaster of Paris in the manner described at p. 362, _ vol. i. An antero-pos- ^' teriorsplint gives better support than the lateral ones usually recom- mended. The anterior splint is a narrow one reaching from the top B J j} of the patella to the end of the metatarsal bones; the posterior one is broad enough to sup- port the leg both on Fio. 20.-Diasi;uu of a ijattern its inner andouter sides, pi-ister of Paris spiMit ' for the leg. The side AB cor- and it extends from the responds to the length of the tnn nf tlic Ivim tr. flip limb, AC to its circumference top Ot tne nam to tne at the tliigh and ankle respect- web of the toes. Care ively,thepiecet.elowBD being , i , , 1 ■^ j_ for the foot, and the indenta- mUSt be taken whilst tions being for the ankle. the splint is hardening to maintain the full length of the leg, to keep the foot exactl}' at right angles with the leg, especi- ally to avoid eversion of the foot, and to see that the lower fragment is neither twisted nor tilted upon the upper fragment. The two parts of the plaster of Paris case are bound on to the leg with a figure-of-eight bandage applied before the plaster has set. If the plaster case is to be used at once it must be put on before the swelling has commenced, and the surgeon in charge of the case should himself hold the leg in proper position until the plaster has become thoroughly hard. He should remember that bulla; often form under the skin when the leg is broken, and that a case which fits accurately at first l)ecomes sufficiently loose in the course of a week to allow of the fragments becoming displaced. He must therefore keep the patient under daily observa- tion, and be prepared to apply a fresh case as soon as may be necessary. Massage may be commenced from the seventh day in simple cases, and should be particularly directed to the knee and ankle. The patient should be kept at rest for three weeks when both bones are broken, and he may then be allowed to walk upon crutches, the injured leg being kept in the plaster case for at least six weeks.