450 GERHARDT'S REACTION Gerhardt's Reaction.—The claret coloration of urine when a solution of perchlo- ride of iron is added to it, indicating the presence of diacetic acid. See Diabetes Mellitus {Synijyto- mafolo<iy, Urine). Gerlier's Disease.—A form of vertigo, accompanied by paresis of the limbs, ptosis palpebrarum, and depression; it is endemic in Switzerland, France, and Northern Japan ; endemic paralytic vertigo. Germ.—A term somewhat widely used to express a microbe or micro-organism (especially one believed to cause a disease), or the rudiment from which an organism develops. The name may be given, in Human Embryology, to the new organism before the first traces of the embryo have appeared in the embryonic area. It is also applied to the rudiment from which any part of an organism develops, e.g. a dental germ. German iVIeasleS. *S'ee Rubella ; ai.so Fourth Disease ; Measles ; etc. Germany. See Balneology {Germany, Waters). Germicide. — A substance or influence capable of destroying germs, especially the germs of disease. Germinal Pathoiogfy. — Germinal life ends with the appearance of the rudiments of the embryo in the blastocyst, and it begins (in one sense) with the fertilising union of the spermatozoon and ovum, or (in another sense) with the specialisation of the reproductive cells in the genital ridge. Morbid processes may develop during germinal life as thus defined, and these changes and processes collectively constitute germinal pathology. It is believed that germinal pathology includes, therefore, anomalies in the formation of the blastocyst and of its contained parts, including the earliest rudiments of the embryo, unusual modes of segmentation of the impregnated ovum, errors in the details of impregnation {e.g. polyspermy), imperfect maturation of the ovum, imperfect formation of spermatoblasts and spermatozoa, and morbid heredity. If polyspermy be the cause of double monsters, then the large part of Teratology, which deals with double terata, really belongs to germinal pathology also. See Ballan- tyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. pp. 607-659. GerO-.—In compound words gero- (from the Greek yrjpas, old age) means relating to the aged or senile, such as gerocomia, the care of the aged; geromorphism, the appearance of old age; and gerontophthalmia, or senile ophthalmia. Gestation. — Pregnancy. See Ectopic Gestation ; Pregnancy ; etc. Ghee I.— A town in Belgium (Antwerp) where the family treatment of insanity has long been in operation (" Colony of_^Gheel"). Giant. — An individual markedly larger than the average individual of that species, type, and age; one showing a "monstrous largeness" of all his parts. See Giantism. Giant Cells. See Physiology, Blood {Erythrocytes). Giant Colon.—Megacolon ; enlargement, sometimes congenital, of the colon with hyper- trophy of its walls. Giantism.—A state of " monstrous large- ness " of all or of some of the parts of an indi- vidual ; general, unilateral, or partial macrosomia; it may be antenatal (foetal macrosomia or giant foetus) or postnatal, coming on early in child- hood or at an advanced period of adolescence. See Acromegaly ; Hypertrophy {Giantism); Teratology ; etc. Gibbosity.—A swelling or protuberance,, especially the hump on the back due to spinal kyphosis. Gid.—A disease in sheep, due to the presence in the brain of the Coenurus ce7-ebralis, and characterised by vertigo. See Hydatid Disease. Giddiness. ^S'^e Vertigo ; see a^so Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms); Brain, Cysts, etc.. {Progressive Softening, Clinical Features); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Hemorrhage); Chlorosis {Symptoms) ; Ear, Examination of {Symptomatology, Vertigo); Nephritis {Chronic Nephritis, Rerud Cirrhosis, Symptoms); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases op {General Sympto- matology). Gig'li'sSaw.—The wire saw recommended by Gigli of Florence, and used for the section of bone as in such an operation as pubiotomy or (more correctly) hebotomy. <S'ee Labour, Opera- tions (Sympihys iotomy). Gilles de la Tourette's Disease. —A disease resembling chorea, in which there are involuntary muscular movements (especially of the face and arms), barking sounds, inarticu- late cries, obscene expressions, and mental symptoms resembling those of a monomania; it usually is met with in children, often in those that have a neurotic family history, and it is allied to hysteria; it is also called " impulsive tic." , Gi Island. See Balneology {Great Britain, Sulpjhur); Mineral Waters {Sulphur, Simple). Gimbernat's Ligrament. See Hernia {Femoral, Anatomy).