191 EXPECTORANTS Expectorants. See also Acids ; Anti- mony ; Benzoic AciI.) ; Cough; Expectoration; Ipecacuanha ; Jaborandi ; Pharmacology ; Senega ; Squills ; Sulphur ; Turpentine ; etc. These are remedies which promote the removal ■of abnormal secretion from the respiratory ti'act. As there is no class of remedy more abused in practice owing to defective appreciation of the exact pathological condition in different diseases, and at different stages of the same disease, it is advisable to specially indicate the important pathological and clinical points that call for consideration. An expectorant may act prim- arily by stimulating the pulmonary circulation, thus promoting an increased secretion; at the same time this action may be assisted, as in the case of ammonia, by its general stimulating- effect on the heart, the central nervous system, and the nerve-endings in the respiratory tract. The preparations of ammonia and especially ammonia carbonate may be taken to represent the group of so-called stimulating expectorants. The alkalies, and very specially iodide of potassium, ipecacvianha, antimony and anti- monial salts, and lobelia, are examples of ex- pectorants whose action is associated with a depression of the general circulation and a cor- responding tendency to diminish bronchial secre- tion, whereas the former are specially useful in the later stages of catarrh associated with diminished expulsive power in the bronchi, the latter are more serviceable in the earlier stages wiien there is congestion of the respiratory passages and scanty expectoration. In another class of case so-called sedative expectorant treat- ment is adopted, for example, where coughing is persistent and severe, and out of all propor- tion to the amount of secretion, hydrocyanic acid, compound tincture of camphor, codeine, or morphine may be indicated, the two latter, however, only under exceptional circumstances. The volatile antiseptics, especially eucalyptus, terebene, olei pini sylvestris, turpentine, and the like, are of most service in those cases where purulent expectoration is very pro- nounced. These volatile substances are, how- ever, of greater service in acute catarrh when used as inhalations in appropriate strengths, e.g. 01. pini sylvestris 5ss.-j. to a pint of boiling water, although it must be admitted that the iiot moist air alone may suffice to give marked relief in those cases where the inhalation plan of treatment is advisable. General tonic remedies are of great import- ance. These include particularly cod-liver oil, arsenic, nux vomica, and iron, and a judicious use of one or other of these remedies, either in very young or in old subjects, frequently proves successful when ordinary expectorant remedies have ceased to be beneficial. The severe early morning coughing in chronic bronchitis is favourably influenced by the use of hot fluids at night, e.g. hot toddy, gruel, or milk and water, assisted by administration of pot. iodide (gr. x.) in very dilute form twice or thrice daily. Occasionally a persistent cough, the result of previous local respiratory trouble, may be got rid of by mild stomachic treatment, e.g. small doses of rhubarb and soda. Before recommending any remedy for the cure of a cough or removal of expectoration in chronic conditions, very careful consideration should be called to the following points :— (ft) To gauge the condition of the bronchial mucous membrane from the history of the patient, the amount of secretion, and the nature, time, and severity of the coughing. ih) To corroborate this information obtained by careful physical examination, and specially the amount of moist and Avj sounds, emphy- sema, etc. In this examination the bases of the lungs should be specially examined. (c) The condition of the heart and circulation, and notably the right heart. {d) The 2)ersonnel of each individual patient. Careful consideration of these points will usually suffice to indicate the special line of treatment to be followed. It will sometimes be found that the use of an expectorant remedy or combination of remedies is the least important point in treatment. Too much attention cannot be paid to the beneficial influence of a change of air, to the thorough and constant invigora- tion of the functions of the skin and other excretory organs, by the use of suitable clothing, baths, exercises, and the like. Expectoration. General Characters . 191 Sputum in— Bronchitis . 193 Bronchiectasis . . 193 Asthma . . . . . . 193 Pneumonia . . . . . 193 Tuberculous . 193 Gangrene—Abscess . . 194 (Edema . . . . . . 194 Microscopical Examination . . 194 See also Fluids, Examination op Pathologi- cal ; Lung, Tuberculosis of {Clinical Features, Expectoration); LuNGS, Gangrene {Symptoms); Micro-organisms. Under the term sputum or expectoration we include all substances expelled by coughing from the respiratory tract below and including the larynx. The sputum is, of course, almost invariably contaminated by nasal secretion and saliva; these, however, will not be considered here. 1. General Characters. — (1) Amount.—This varies greatly according to the nature and ex- tent of the disease ; in some cases there may be