GNATHION 479 Gnathion.—A projecting point on the anterior inferior margin of the lower jaw in the middle line. GnathOCephaluS. — A teratological type in wliich the head consists almost solely of the jaws. GnathOSChisiS.—Cleft palate. GnathOSpasmUS. —Trismus on tonic contraction of the muscles wliich clench the jaws. See Tetanus. Gnats. See Myiasis {Insect Stings and ]>ites); Stinging Insects (Gnats). Goa Powder. See Chrysarobinum. Goats. See Anthrax {In Aninuils, Goats); Infant Feeding {Milk of Animals other than the Goto); Milk {Physiological, Goafs Milk). "Godfrey's Cordial." See Toxico LOGY {Oj'iluii and Morphine). Goitre. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Goitre and Exophthalmic Goitre) ; Thyroid (iIland, Surgery of {Goitre awl ExophtJialmic Goitre). See also Anaesthesia {Chloroform m Goitrous Subjects, Attitude); Cornea {Ulceration from exposure. Exophthalmic Goitre); H/EMATO- porphyrinuria (mi Exophthalmic Goitre); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Cause of Symptoms of Goitre); Water {Diseases produced by). Gold Cure.—A secret method of treating alcoholism ; Keeley cure ; the medicine used is said to contain gold. Gold-Filling'. See Teeth {Mechanical Dentistry). Golgi, Organs of. See Physiology, Senses {Muscle Seme, Structu7-e of Mtiscle). Golgi, Staining Method of. See PHYSiOLO(iY, Nervous System {Cerehruin, Arrangement of Neurons). Gonagra.—(Jout in the knee-joint. See (iOUT. Gonalgia. — Pain in the knee, often ncvu'algic in type. GonarthritiS.—Inflammation or gout hi the knee. GonecystitiS. — Inflammation of the seminal vesicles. Gonion.—The angle of the lower jaw and the region round it. GonococCUS. See GoNORRHCEAL Infec- tion ; Micro-organisms ; Urethra, Diseases of (Gonorrhoea, Fathology). Gonorrhoea. See Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea). See also Ankle-Joint, Region of. Diseases {Gonorrheal Affections); BuRSJi, Injuries and Diseases of {Gonorrhoeal Bursitis); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Purulent Oph- tJmlmia); GoNORRHOiAL Infection ; Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Inflammatory Conditions, Gonorrhoeal Iritis) ; Joints, Diseases of {Gonorrhoeal Aff'ections) ; Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Pyogenic, Gonorrhoeal Affections); Meninges of the Cere- brum {Purulent Jleningitis, Etiology) ; Micro- organisms (Gonococci) ; Myositis {Secondary, Gonorrhoeal); Nails, Affections of {Intoxica- tions,Gonorrhoea); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {General Etiology); Nose, Examina- tion OF {Character of Secretion, Bacteriology); Peritoneum {Pathology, Bacteriology); Post- mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investiga- tions, Gonorrh<ea) ; Purpura {Symptomatic, Infections) ; Pyuria ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Eruptirms on Scrotum, Gonorrhoeal Warts) ; Spermatorrhcea ; Suppuration {Etio- logy); Urine, Bacteria in (G^o?iococcms); Uterus, Inflammations {Metritis, Endometritis, etc.); Vagina, Disorders of {Inflammations, Gonor- rhoeal Vaginitis) ; Vulva, Diseases of {Inflam- mation, Condylomata) ; Wrist-Joint, Diseases op {Gonorrhoeal Arthritis). Gonorrhceal Infection.—Although the special inflaiiiinations resulting from an attack of gonorrhoea have been considered under their appropriate headings, it will be con- venient to summarise the effects produced by gonorrhceal infection in the female. In the acute form the vulva, vulvo-vaginal glands, and iirethra are involved, accompanied by swelling of the inguinal glands and even abscess formation. The vagina is stated by some authorities to be rarely affected, but this depends entirely on the character of the epi- thelial lining. In children the vagina is affected. In adults where connection has occurred fre- quently, the vaginal walls offer more resistance to the action of the poison. A secondary vagi- nitis is not infrequently produced through the discharge from the cervix uteri, causing des- quamation of the superficial layers of the vaginal epithelium. G^^dema of the labia is a most imjjortant sign, and is frequently accom- panied by superficial ulceration. The urethral oi'ifice is inflamed, and on j^i'essure on the urethra with the finger introduced into the vagina a purulent discharge exudes. When the vagina is involved there is marked congestion, and may be hasmorrhages, and the surface is bathed with a thin purulent discharge. The distinction between a gonorrheal attack and one due to other causes is chiefly the degree of inflammation, and previous to the discovery of the gonococcus the severity alone was relied upon to settle the diagnosis. Now,