GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 384 the gall-bladder, or by larger bands resulting from localised peritonitis so pressing on the bowel as to interfere with the circulation of its contents. As might be expected, the middle part of the transverse colon is the usual seat of obstruction, but I have seen the hepatic flexure blocked, and in one case recently treated for acute obstruction there were two marked bands, one situated almost at the hepatic flexure, the other within a couple of inches of the cfecum. Where the colon is involved the symptoms are as a rule less severe than when the stomach is affected, but, when bands have formed, acute intestinal obstruction may rapidly develop. As a rule, however, there are only evidences of chronic intestinal obstruction, showing itself by attacks of paroxysmal colicky pains in the abdomen, occurring at irregular intervals and associated with constipation, or constipation alternating with diarrhoea. Vomiting is not commonly present, but, when the kinking is acute or the bowel is constricted by bands, this may be a prominent feature. In many of these cases during the attacks of pain careful examina- tion will reveal the ctecum contracting in its efforts to force the contents of the colon through the stricture or past the kink; and at times large ftecal concretions can be felt on the proximal side of the obstruction. In all these respects the case may closely simulate cancer of the large intestine but in the latter there is more rapid deterioration of the general health, and since the stricture in malignant disease is most often in the sigmoid flexure or rectum, the motions tend to be flattened, and there is straining and the presence of mucus and blood in the stools. When gall-stones give rise to local peritonitis so marked as to lead to obstructive symptoms, there are always long-continued and repeated attacks of colic, so that the past history is of great importance in arriving at a correct con- clusion in any individual case, though it should be remembered that cholelithiasis and cancer may of course be present at the same time. In most cases of adhesions there is more localised tenderness than when the obstruction is due to new growth, but the attacks of paroxysmal pain may be as severe in one case as in the other. Where adhesions are diagiiosed, or where, after a history of repeated attacks of gall-stone colic, symptoms arise which might be referable to adhesions, and which do not subside under medical treatment sufficiently long continued, operation should be undertaken, and the adhei'ent viscera separated. As a rule there will be gall-stones present, but, in any case, it will probably be advisable to perform cholecys- totomy and drain the gall-bladder to get rid of the catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane, which is almost invariably present. In order to prevent the recontraction of the adhesions the omentum should be tucked up between the gall-bladder and the contiguous viscera. After recovery from operation the patient should be advised to continue medical remedies directed to prevent catarrh of the duodenum and bile duct, as has been advised after cholecystotomy for gall-stones. Ulceration and its SEQUELiE Ulceration of the gall-bladder and ducts is probably fairly frequent, but if uncomplicated does not usually give rise to symptoms of nmch importance. Although cholelithiasis is the most frequent, typhoid fever and cancer are quite common causes, and tubercular disease and cholera also produce ulceration. As has already been pointed out, pyrexia when present in empyema of the gall-bladder is probably always associated with ulceration, and due to absorption iof septic products through the ulcerated surface. The importance of ulceration, however, de- pends more on its sequelae, the most important of which are adhesions (already considered), perforation, fistula, peritonitis, haemorrhage, and stricture. As the ulceration extends through the wall of the cyst or its ducts, there is set up local j^eritonitis, which usually induces adhesions to the neighbouring viscera, and thus shuts off the general peritoneal cavity, but occasionally no adhesions are formed, and perforation takes place. On account of the fact that the bile in cases of cholelithiasis is invariably infected, this event is always veiy serious, since general septic jjeritonitis is almost certain to ensue, and unless quickly treated will end fatally. Rarely the perforation is followed by a localised peritonitis, which shuts off the general peritoneal cavity, and allows of the formation of an abscess which runs a course similar to that of an abscess due to appendicitis. The symptoms of perforation of the bile passages are those of perforative peritonitis from any cause, with, as a rule, a history pointing to the presence of gall-stones. A sudden pain beneath the right costal margin followed by collapse and succeeded by vomiting, general distension, and a rapid pulse, form the chief features of the disease. If the extravasation is extensive there will be signs of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity, and jaundice, if not present before, usually appears within twenty-four or forty-eight hours from absorption of biliary pigment by the peritoneum. Death takes place usually within a few days, but cases have been reported where life was prolonged into the second or third week. As a rule the condition of the patient does not warrant more than that the abdomen should be opened, the extravasated material removed by sponges, and satisfactory drainage estab- lished ; but, if his condition be sufficiently good,