FRACTURES 348 the ankle must be commenced very gently, as some slight pain may be caused by ' the internal massage' resulting from the working of the tendons and muscles in immediate relation with the fracture itself. At the end of another week the union is generally sufficiently firm to allow of all the manipulations of ordinary massage, and the patient may be encouraged to move the ankle spontaneously as freely as possible, the fracture being fixed with some form of short splint. The complete massage should be con- tinued imtil the union has firmly consolidated ; the period necessarily varies in diff'erent cases, but in a simple, uncomplicated case of fracture of both bones of the leg a month is the approxi- mate time. For the first fortnight the patient is better confined to bed; after that he may lie on the sofa, and generally be allowed to get about on crutches, in which case a moulded poro-plastic or leather splint, made so that it is easily removable for the massage sittings, may be desirable." In the early part of the treat- ment of fracture by massage it is essential to success that the broken ends of the bone should be kept absolutely at rest, and unless the sur- geon shampoos the part himself, or entrusts it to an experienced person in whom he has implicit confidence, it is better not to adopt the method at all, but to leave the massage until the ends have united. Massage is not necessarily contra-indicated in compound frac- tures. Especial care must be taken in such cases to prevent the infection of the wound. Shampooing is unsuitable when the skin is extensively injured, when there has been so great an eff'usion of blood just beneath it as to form a large haematoma, and where from the seat of the injury it is difficult to keep the fragments in apposition, as in fractures in the upper third of the humerus and the lower third of the femur. Ambulatory. — The judicious application of various forms of splint, plaster case, or plaster bandage, is often of service in allowing a patient with a broken leg to go about his business before the fracture is firmly united, and this is particularly useful in a fractured fibula, or when a portion of the internal malleolus of the tibia has been torn off. Such ambulatory treatment of a fracture requires that the patient should be kept strictly under observation, as the de- pendent position of the limb or the imprudence of the patient may easily cause a disaster. The foot and leg must be separated from the plaster of Paris case by a padding of cotton wool at least an inch thick, and this padding must be further increased at the heel, so that in walking the patient puts his heel to the ground before the toes on the injured side. Wiring.—Even simple fractures are now often treated by cutting down upon the ends of the bone, wiring, pegging, or screwing them together, and afterwards closing the wound. This treat- ment is most frequently used in transverse fractures of the patella, where a tedious and incomplete convalescence extending over many months is thus replaced by a rapid recovery within a few weeks. Every patient with a broken knee-cap must not be treated in this manner, nor every fracture. A healthy person in the prime of life with a fracture across the middle of the patella gives the best results, but even then the svirgeon must be certain of his own ability to carry his methods to an aseptic issue, for an operation which fails often costs the patient his limb and may seriously endanger his life. But the operation of wiring is by no means confined to fractures of the patella. It is often serviceable in very oblique ununited and badly-united fractures, though so far as my experience goes it is most unsatisfactory in the treatment of ununited fractures occurring in children. Simple or aseptic fractures may be wired when injuries to the nerves or blood- vessels require an incision at the seat of injury, whilst many cases of compound fractures likely to become septic can be wired at the time the wound is enlarged to disinfect the injured parts. Sequelae.—The consequences or sequelae of fractures are many. Stiffness is the commonest, due either to the existence of adhesions between the muscular and tendinous sheaths and the injured bone, to degeneration and contraction of the muscles, or to the formation of adhesions in a joint which is not perfectly healthy, or which has been injured at the time of the fracture. Massage or the hot air treatment is often of the greatest service in these cases. If the hot air treatment be adopted the limb should be well covered with flannel, and the moisture should be reduced to a minimum by occasionally ventilating the apparatus. Each sitting, after the first, should last an hour, with the temperature beginning at 300° F. and rising rapidly to 380°-400° F. The impairment of movement may be caused by the overlapping of the united ends of the broken bone, by venous troubles associated with injury to the veins, or to thrombosis starting in the medullary veins. These, however, are comparatively trivial con- sequences of fracture, and appropriate treat- ment will usually cure them in a longer or shorter time. Delayed union, fibrous union, and non-union are more serious, but fortunately much less common sequelae. An ununited fracture is sometimes the result of such constitutional causes as scurvy and chronic nephritis, which weaken the patient, but it is much more often the result of causes acting locally. Any mechanical impediment to the apposition of the ends of the bone may lead to non-union, and of these the intervention of a piece of torn muscle, part of the aponeurosis, or the synovial mem- brane of a joint, are the most common. But want of rest is the most frequent cause of an