GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 406 ing or diarrhoea and marasmvis; sometimes the sour smell of the eructations points to fermenta- tion in the stomach; often the relation to meals is obvious, each attack occurring soon after the infant has been fed. It is always wise to examine the abdomen in these cases ; the flatulent distension of the stomach or the bowel may be distinctly seen and felt, or scybala may be detected in the intestine. The possibility of intussusception must also be remembered. Treatment.—In a breast-fed infant the fre- quency and quantity of the feeds must be regulated, and any defect in the mother's health must be treated. It is hardly ever necessary to wean altogether, but if the milk seem to be poor it may be advisable to substitute hand- feeding two or three times a day, continuing suckling at other times. In hand-fed infants the diet must be carefully revised (see " Infant Feeding"). Usually the casein must be di- minished or the curd made more digestible by dilution with lime water, oatmeal water, or barley water. Some of these infants are suffer- ing from the results of a diet which contains much starch, especially some of the patent " Foods" ] starch, in general, is to be avoided. Where there is evidence of fermentation in the stomach, stomach-washing may be useful; and if the stools are offensive, grey powder with soda is likely to be effectual. The presence of scybala requires the use of an aperient enema and subseipient laxative treatment. A tea- spoonful of dill water given just before a feed or mixed with it, or some carminative mixture, such as Tr. card. co. or Spir. ammon. aromat., with bicarbonate of soda and some ai'omatic water, sometimes prevents the attacks. When the flatulence appears to be chiefly intestinal, creasote (lll^^-J) or resorcin (gr. ij.-iv.) may be given three or four times a day. In all cases it is important that the abdomen and thighs should be warmly covered. During the attack hot flannels should be applied to the abdomen, the feet should be warmed by putting them in hot water if neces- sary, and the child's position should be shifted frequently to encourage the passage of flatus. This may be assisted by friction or pressure over the abdomen, and the relief afforded in many cases by the prone position as the child lies over the nurse's knee or shoulder, is no doubt due partly to the pressure thus applied. A teaspoonful of hot water with a few drops of brandy or a little aqua chloroformi may give relief, and sometimes a small teaspoonful of salad oil will stop the pain. An enema of soap and water should be given at once if scybala are present, and in any case an enema of plain warm water may do good. If necessary a drop or two of laudanum may be added to the enema, but the use of opiates, particularly in the form of patent " soothing powders" or " syrups," is, as a rule, strongly to be dis- couraged, although under medical supervision minute doses of Pulv. ipecac, co. (gr. \-\ for an infant of four to nine months) are sometimes advisable for a few days, especially where the attacks are followed by much prostration. Hiccough is frequently troublesome in in- fants, especially during the first few months of life. It is associated usually with some diges- tive disturbance, particularly with the condition of flatulence described above. Often, however, no such cause can be found, and there is nothing to account for the onset of this spasmodic action of the diaphragm. The attacks of hiccough in some cases occur almost daily, and although not serious, are sufficiently distressing both to the infant and to its parents to require treatment. When the attack is prolonged a weakly infant is sometimes quite exhausted by it, and even in milder degrees the discomfort it causes to the child is often shown by a fretful cry as each spasm occurs. Treatment.—When the attacks are frequent the diet should be carefully considered; it may be that some slight alteration, such as has been recommended in the cases of flatulence, may prevent the hiccough. The attack may be shortened sometimes by very simple methods such as changing the baby's position at short intervals, gentle patting on the back, or friction over the upper part of the abdomen. In other cases a teaspoonful of hot water, either alone or with one or two drops of sal volatile, or five or ten drops of brandy, may be successful. The administration of a weak acid, such as lemon juice, or one or two drops of,.dilute sulphuric acid in a teaspoonful of cold water, is some- times very effectual. Vomiting.—Under this head must be men- tioned first the regurgitation of food, which is so common during the first two or three months of infancy as to be almost physiological; it might perhaps be distinguished as repletion- vomiting. This is seen in infants who take their food greedily whether at the breast or from the bottle. A few minutes after, some- times even before the meal is finished, they regurgitate without effort and without dis- comfort a small part of the contents of the stomach. This vomiting seems to be really a protective arrangement to prevent over distension of the small infantile stomach. As a rule it has no ill effect, and the child gains weight steadily in spite of the vomiting. Never- theless it is wise to check this regurgitation by reducing the quantity of each meal, for the continual over-feeding is apt to lead to actual gastric catarrh, and sometimes certainly, as Dr. Goodhart suggests, it seems as if a habit of vomiting were established which it is difficult to break. Apart from such repletion-vomiting, the