F(ETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF 317 the end of the third month this hne of reflection moves with the growth of the placenta, passing farther and farther outwards to enclose a grad- ually increasing area. During this period, therefore, the reflex grows with the ovum; afterwards it is muiecessary, and becomes thinned and atrophied from pressure. The placenta, however, continues to increase in size propor- tionately with the uterus, while in thickness it undergoes progressive increase within the area mapped out for it. The atrophy of the extra-placental chorionic villi, which is complete by the end of the third month, is chiefly due to the withdrawal of their blood-supply consequent upon the development of the placenta. Somewhat later, when the o\aim fills the Titerus, the extra-placental chorio- decidual space is obliterated l)y pressure, and the atrophied villi liecome surrounded hj rings of fibrin de])()sited by clotting from the maternal blood. In this form they may always be found in the membranes of a young ovum, where they appear to be embedded in atrophied f decidual tissue. Near the placental margin traces of them may be found at term. The Placenta at Term.—When shed from its uterine attachments the placenta is a flat, circular, or oval mass measuring from six to eight inches in diameter, three-quarters to one inch in depth at the thickest part, which cor- responds to the insertion of the cord, and weighing about 16 ounces. The margin is thinner and firmer than the centre, and passes somewhat abruptly into the chorion lajve. The foetal surface contrasts strongly with the maternal. It is covered with a smooth, shining- membrane, the amnion, which can be readily stripped off up to the insertion of the cord. Beneath it lie the surface branches of the umbilical vessels. The arteries divide at once upon reaching the placenta, and continue to branch irregularly as they approach the margin, but the terminal divisions never quite reach the edge. The veins accompany and often cross the arterial branches. The latter plunge verti- cally into the placental tissue, then run for a short distance horizontally^, and then dip down- wards again, thus forming a series of steps in their course. Thus they pass into the ramifi- cations of the villi in company with the veins. The surface of the chorion exposed after re- moval of the aumion is smooth and polished ; on incising it a membrane of the thickness of about one line is seen to form the surface, and from its deep aspect springs the mass of spongy tissue representing the chorionic villi. Attached to the deep surface of the membrane are large numbers of small greyish or yellowish nodules, seldom larger than half a pea. These are masses of fibrin the origin of which will be referred to under "Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta." The uterine surface is dai-k red in colour, dull in appearance, and divided by sulci into a variable number of more or less quadrangular areas called cotyledons. On close inspection a thin, greyish, mottled membrane may be ob- served upon the surface; in parts it is incom- plete, leaving the deep red, spongy tissue exposed. It usually feels rough and gritty, and often little calcareous plates may be seen with the naked eye. It represents the shed portion of the serotina; it passes into all the inter-cotyledonary sulci, and is continuous with the decidua at the placental margin. It cannot be stripped off like the amnion. If the placenta be floated under water the torn ends of the coiling serotinal arteries may sometimes be seen. Around the margin runs a large venous channel, the cirndar sinus; this returns a part of the blood from the intervillous spaces; it is usuallj' interrupted in several places. When incised the cut surface of the placenta is seen to be of a dark mottled purplish colour, and traversed by numerous thin, greyish Ijands. representing the larger chorionic branches. A great deal of blood slowly exudes from an incision into the placenta, which is mostly maternal blood from the intervillous spaces. If a stream of water be turned upon the cut surface the spaces are washed out, and the arborescent villi then become evident, appearing as delicate, greyish branching threads. Degeneration in the Placenta at Term. — To' understand the structure of the ripe placenta, we must remember that we are dealing with an organ which is intended to serve only a temporary purpose. It is, in short, a caducous oi'gan, and when its purpose is fulfilled it is shed like a withered leaf. Now all caducous organs degen- erate before they are cast oft', the immediate cause of their shedding being that they are degenerated. So the ripe placenta is a senile structure no longer fitted to Jjlay its physio- logical part, and is therefore repudiated by the organism. This failure of vitality commences long before the approach of the term of gestation,, and results in marked structural alterations in the placenta. The importance of a right estimation of these changes is of great import- ance, for it is obviously impossible to make any progress with the study of its diseases until the normal structure of the organ has been fully worked out. It is convenient to consider- separately the changes in the foetal and maternal elements. Changes in the Foetal Structures.—The initial change affects the allantoic (umbilical) vessels; all others are secondary to, and dependent upon, this one. Stated briefly, they result in the obliteration of extensive arterial tracts, and consequent arrest of the circulation in large tracts of villi. The terminal and medium-sized arterioles are first affected ; the largest arteries suffer later, while the veins and capillaries remain unaffected until the circulation through.