215 EYEBALL, INJURIES OF from the aqueous chambers is not to be Hghtly undertaken by any one who has not had some operative experience on the eye, for a delay of a few days will probably do less hann than the attempt at removal by a novice. Children must be deeply ancesthetised, but cocaine is preferable in adults. The instruments required must be at hand, and should comprise speculum, fixation forceps, and scissors, Graefe's knife and keratome, ciu-ved iris forceps, also small curved forceps with broadish ribbed blades, a curette, and a Daviel's spf)on. Very good daylight is necessary, or, failing this, an electric focus lamp. The pupil should not be dilated with atropine ; it is often advantageous to contract it with eserine, which permits of a much better view of any substance in the anterior chamber and renders injury of the lens less liable. The corneal section should be made with a Graefe's knife rather than with a kei'atome, so as to produce a flap, and this should not be too small. If the foreign body is free in the anterior chamber it may, by a piece of luck, at once escape with the rush of aqueous, but in most cases it requires to be laid hold of and removed. Small shot and other round bodies are best dealt with by the Daviel's spoon, scales and chips of metal or glass or other hard, smooth substances should be seized with the ribbed forceps, while fragments of wood and other softish material are readily removed hj means of the iris forceps. Foreign bodies on the iris, if not deeply embedded, may, as recommended by Knapp, be removed by a small blunt hook or a curette without excising iris, but if buried in the iris it is best to seize the foreign body and iris together, draw them out of the eye, and cut off with scissors. Forelijn hodieH in the hnis are better tolerated than in any other part of the eye, and may be left till complete cataract is produced, which is then extracted together with the foreign bod^'. A foreign body behind the iris may sometimes be seen protruding in the J^upil, but at other times its presence is shown only by a bidging of the iris. Its removal from this position always necessitates an iridectomy. The lens is usually wounded at the time of the accident and must be dealt with later. Foreiijn Bodies in the Vitreous Chamber.— These not infrequently penetrate the coats of the eye and lodge in the vitreous, reaching this locality by going (1) through the cornea and lens ; (2) through the cornea, iris, and lens ; (3) through the cornea, iris, and zonule; or (4) through tiie sclerotic and underlying coats of the eye. In some cases the lid, usually the upper, is also perforated. The diagnosis of such an occurrence is often a matter of con- siderable dithcultj', and frequently we can only arrive at a probability that a foreign bodj- has entered the eye. The first thing we do is to search for an opening or scar in the anterior part of the eye. If this lies in the cornea there is seldom any difficulty in detecting it, but if very small and in the sclerotic it is moi'e likely to be overlooked from the presence of blood in, or thickening of, the conjunctiva. A good light and the use of a magnifying lens may here be necessary. The patient's testimony, further than that he has received an injury, is seldom to be trusted. Associating as he does the idea of "something in the eye" with the occurrence of constant pain, he usxially assures us that there is nothing iti the eye, and even goes the length of declaring that he saw the piece of metal or other substance that struck the eye, when we have undoubted evidence that it is actually in the eye. Having made out the point of entrance, let us assume that this is in the cornea and about its centre—we find a mark on the anterior and on the posterior capsule, with a connecting streak running through the lens. If more eccentric a hole in the iris will indicate the course of the foreign body, which in this case may reach the vitreous by going through the suspensory ligament in the circumlental space. By the alxjve signs we may be quite sure that a foreign Ijody has penetrated into the deep parts of the eye, but we must bear in mind that this may have gone through the globe to be lodged in the orbit. I have seen this on several occasions with small, sharp pieces of steel and lead pellets, but have never (l)efore the use of Rdntgen rays) diagnosed the condition before enucleation of the eye. I had a case in which a sharp, sword-like piece of steel over an inch in length penetrated the cornea and went clear through the eye, one end becoming firmly fixed in the bony wall of the orbit, the eye being impaled on the other end. The foreign body may reach the vitreous directly by going through the sclerotic, in which case careful probing may be required to ascertain if the whole thickness of the sclerotic has been perforated. An opaque streak in the vitreous, one end corresponding to the w^ound in the sclerotic, is often visible and indicates the track taken. When the foreign body has taken this route we are much more likely to have hicmorrhage in the vitreous than when it has gone through the lens, rendering its detection more dilficult; but in the latter case opacity of the lens takes place and, if advanced, may prevent our making out the foi'cign body. The foreign body may get entangled in the coats of the eye at the point of entrance ; it may be free in the vitreous, or be suspended there in a blood-clot or string of lymph. It may traverse the vitreous and become embedded in the retina; it may rebound from the back of the eye and come to rest on the posterior part I of the ciliary body below, as in Fig. 6; or