FRACTURES 355 fracture of the humerus just above the coudyles is not a very rare accident after a fall upon tlie outstretched hand, or, less often, from a blow upon the bent elbow. The line of fracture is oblique from behind forwards and downwards when the arm has been broken from indirect violence with the elbow straight; whilst the line of fracture runs obliquely from in front downwards and backwards when the accident has happened with the elbow bent. In eitlier case there is well-marked shortening of the arm, the shortening disappearing when the arm is pulled upon, though it reappears as soon as the extension is relaxed. It is often impossible to bend the arm beyond a certain point, because the ends of the two fragments interlock. The injury is soon followed by swelling, which makes a differential diagnosis difficult; but if the patient is seen directly, it is easy to distinguish a supracondylar fracture of the humerus from' a dislocation backwards of the radius and ulna, by the fact that the internal and external condyles of the humerus and the tip of the olecranon maintain their normal relation to each other, that is to say, the point of the olecranon lies vertically below a line joining the condyles when the elbow is bent to a right angle, so that a ruler placed on the back of the humerus does not touch the tip of the olecranon when the arm is bent to this angle. In children this accident has to be distinguished from a separated epiphysis. " The crepitus," says Mr. Poland, " in separation of the epiphysis is more ' mulHed'; the lower end of the upper fragment has a greater breadth than in frac- ture : the line of separation is nearer the end of the bone, and the anterior projection of the shaft of the humerus is on a level with the fold of the elbow, whilst in fracture it is usuallj' above it: the anterior projection, too, in a separated epiphysis has a rounded extremity unlike the projection of the sharp end of a fracture." Many accidents attend a supra- condylar fracture of the humerus in addition to impaired movement at the elbow. The pressure of the one end of the broken fragments may obstruct the circulation through the brachial artery, and may even cause gangrene, an ex- amination of the radial pulse must therefore be made from time to time. The median nerve may be injured by the same pressure, or the ulnar and musculo-spiral nerves may, at a later time, be involved in the callus produced dui-ing the process of repair, whilst there is often pei-- uianent deformity of the elbow, which is most obvious in full extension of the arm known as cubitus varus. Every variety of position, fron\ extreme flexion to complete extension of the arm, has been advocated in the treatment of supra- condylar fracture of the humerus. Prof. Chiene, than whom we could have no higher authority, recommends that the arm be placed vertically upon the chest wall, whilst the forearm is fully flexed. A figure - of - eight bandage is then applied to the elbow and the arm is bandaged to the side. The French surgeons maintain the arm in full extension, saying that by this means the fragments are kept in the best apposition. For my own part I prefer an inter- mediate course, and after reducing the fracture, Fio. 11.—The position in which the arm is to be maintained in a case of fracture of tlie lower end of the humerus. (Chiene and Dobie.) under an antesthetic if necessary, I bend the elbow, put the arm midway between pronation and supination with the thumb uppermost, and place a well-padded rectangular splint of plaster of Paris along the inner side of the arm. The splint reaches from the axilla to the tips of the fingers and is kept in position by a roller bandage of linen, the arm being slung across the chest by a large arm-sling. Details of making and applying such a plaster of Paris case are given at vol. i. p. 362. Passive movement should be commenced early, a point emphasised by Mr. Josejjh Bell, who teaches that fractures near the elbow in young people should be kept quiet for a period corresponding to the age of the child, a day for each year, e.g., a child of five years for five days, of ten years for ten days. Slight move- ments of flexion and extension are carried out at the elbow joint, care being taken that no movement is allowed at the fracture, and that no pain is caused. Voluntary movements may be allowed at the end of a month, but if there is much swelling or stiflhess the arm should be shampooed daily from the twentieth day. Intra-articular fractures of the condyles have already been considered (p. 45), but a portion of the inner condyle may be broken oft' without injury to the elbow joint. Such an epitrochlear fracture, or fracture of the internal epicondyle, may be the result of a direct injury to the inner side of the humerus, or, less commonly, to muscular action or a fall upon the hand. It occurs chiefly in young adults, and is often of the nature of a separated epiphysis. I have recently had two cases under my care, both oceurrinu' as the results of accidents in the foot-