501 GOUT diffidence on the former. The older views, which regarded uric acid as an intermediate product in the combustion of nitrogenous sub- stances into urea, have long been aliandoned. The observations of Kossel, Mares, Horbaczewski, and others, referred to imdcr " Uric Acid," have in the last ten years thrown much additional light on the subject. As a result of their investigations, the theory was advanced that uric acid was derived from nudeins m the cell nudein, and that the excretion of uric acid bore a close relationship to the number of leucocytes in the blood. This theory has not been borne out by further recent investigations. The view was then advanced that the uric acid arose from decomposition of the nudeins of the food, and much discussion still rages on this point. Others consider that it is exclusively derived from the organised nuclein of nuclear dis- integration, and attribute to the nuclein of the food an indirect action only, thi'ough an accelera- tion of metabolism and cell disintegration. There is no doubt that the administration of a diet rich in nucleins, e.<y. thynuis gland (sweet- bread), leads to a very considerable increase in the excretion of uric acid, but the manner of interpreting this result is by no means clear. Many things have to be carefully considered. To illustrate : it is well known that in addition to uric acid other nitrogen-holding substances— so-called alloxur or purin bases—are excreted as the result of nuclear disintegration, but as our methods of determining these substances can hardly yet be said to be thoroughly trust- worthy, conclusions arrived at from these in- vestigations are not wholly reliable. Further, there is sufficient evidence to indicate that the organism of man can further transpose in-ic acid into urea, a fact of some importance in connection with views recently adv;mced as to the excretion of uric acid and |)hosphoric acid running a parallel course. These two sub- stances are two end products of nuclear dis- integration, and as there is no reason to believe that phosphoric acid undergoes any further change in the orgimism, while there is good reason to believe that uric acid can do so, it would be surprising if the excretion of the two substances went strictly hand in hand. Apart from this theoretical reasoning, my own investigations have convinced me that no such parallel exists. There is also no doubt that the nudeins present in cell nuclein fjenerally are a soiu-ce of uric acid production, but the con- ditions which influence the formation and de- composition of these nucleins in the body arc quite imknown. Other writers maintain that individual dispositions var\' considerably with regard to tlie amount of uric acid produced under apparently similar conditions. The whole subject of lu'ic acid formation is still obscure, and it may well be, as Minkowski suggests, that the significance of nuclein-iiolding articles of diet Tuay ultimately fall quite into the back- ground. We must remember that the experi- ments recorded with thymus feeding cannot be regai'ded as comparable to the ordinary dietetic measures in daily use. We are not in a position to make precise statements as to the conditions which influence the formation and excretion of uric acid in health, and still less are we qualified to speak of the state of afi'airs in gout. This being so, it is not surprising to find that the fundamental questions in the problem of gout are variously answered. One such question pertains to the kidneys. Are the kidneys primarily or mainly at fault in gout ? This may be so; but if so, this has not to do with uric acid. Not only is the actual output of uric acid not diminished (often actually increased) during the acute paroxysm, but I have lately shown that the tissues of a gouty subject react like the normal tissues to the influence of jjure nucleic acid [Journ. of PatJi. 1900), and Knoll had previously shown that they react like normal tissues to the influence of thymtis feeding. In gout it is yet impossible to state whether we are dealing with an increased formation of uric acid, a diminislied excretion, a diminished oxidation, an alteration in the solubility, or other uidiuown factors. Much further investigation is necessary Itefore these points can be determined. Finally, I will merely tln-ow out a few suggestions wdiich occur to me as having some importance in comicction with the etiology. These remarks or queries will be based mainly on the following two points : (a) There is ample evidence to prove that the luic acid in the blood is not the primary factor in gout; and {b) uric acid can be deposited in cartilages and other tissues, even in considerable amount, with- out the association of any inflanmiatory phenomena. (i.) The last-mentioned point clearly proves that tlie in-ic acid is not the factor which causes the inflammatoi'y phenomena characteristic of the acute attack. (ii.) What, then, are the toxic principles in the blood which possess tlie power of inducing the characteristic inflammation ? and (iii.) What are the factors which determine the incidence of these toxic substances from the blood into the tissues ? In connection with these queries we have to consider the all-important part played by the alimentary canal. Here we have, doubtless, one of the important keys to the solution of the prolilem. (iv.) What effect has the absorption of the products of abnormal digestion of proteids on the blood? This abnormal digestion may arise from quite a number of circumstances, e.g. excess of proteid, faulty admixture of food stuffs, the effects of alcoholic stimulants, the result of fatigue from excessive nmscular exercise, etc.