EUSTACHIAN Eustachian Tube. See Ear, Exami- nation OF {^Anatomy, J<Jj:(viiiination hy Catheter, etc.); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-Suppurative Disease (Chronic Eustachian Catarrh); Glosso- pharyngeal Nerve ; Nose, Examination op (Posterior Rhinoscopy); Physiology, Senses, Hearing {Middle Ear). Eustrorsg'yIuS. See Parasites (Nema- todts, StroiKjyliiJa'). Euthanasia. — A painless death, or, more particularly, the result of the measures which can ,be adopted to prevent the suffering (mental and bodily) which often precedes death; such suft'ering may be due to pain (as in cancer), or bi'cathlessness (as in various forms of asthma and pulmonary and cardiac troubles), or cough (as in phthisis), or abdominal distension (as in ascites). Euthermic Stove. — A means of warming and ventilation combined, in which pipes containing the fresh air jjass into the room through a gas stove. EutOCia.—Easy and uncomplicated labour (see Labour, Physiology of), in contrast with dystorin, or painful and difficult parturition. Eutrophia.—A well-nourished condition of body ; opposed to dystrophia. EvacuantS.—Purgative medicines, or, more generally, all drugs which cause the evacuation of any secretion or excretion from the body (e.;/. emetics, diuretics, diaphoretics, and expectorants). Eventration. — Protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through a .space (e.c/. between the recti muscles) in the abdominal parictes ; ventral hernia. Evian. See Mineral Waters {Alkaline, Simple). Evian - Ses - Bains. See Balneology {Friinct, All^nlllie). Evidence. See Medicine, Forensic {Examinations, Circumsfantial Evidence). Evil.—A disease ; now almost obsolete in this sense; the " falling evil" was epilepsy, the "king's evil" was scrofula, the "yellow evil" was jaundice, the " foul evil " was the pox, and the "Aleppo evil" was the furunculus oricn- talis. Evisceration. — The removal of any organ {e.g. the eyeball) or organs (e.f/. the abdominal viscera) from the cavity in which they normally lie ; a form of embryotomy in difficult labour. See Labour, Operations {Eni- hryotomy). TUBE 189 Evolution.—A form of spontaneous de- livery which sometimes occurs in cases of transverse presentation in labour. See Lalour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Transverse Lies, Spontaneous Delivery). The gradual develop- ment of an organ or organism {see Embryology), or of a species from a simpler to a more compli- cated state {see Heredity ; Darwinianism). Ewald's Test Meal. —A slice of bread and two cu|>s of weak tea without milk or sugar are taken on a fasting stomach, and withdrawn through a tube after the lapse of an hour. The digestive power of the stomach is determined by chemical examination of the material so obtained. Exalgrin. See also Analgesics and Ano- dynes.—Mvtliyl - acetanilide ; soluble freely in alcohol, and sparingly in water. Dose—-i-3 grs. It is a very useful analgesic, but must be given with caution, as it possesses a toxic action resembling that of acetanilide when too large doses ai'e employed. It is indicated in all forms of neuralgia, in the pains of locomotor ataxia, in painful skin diseases, and in some forms of cardiac pain. It has proved especially helpful as a substitute for opium in relieving pain due to inoperable malignant disease. Althougii certainly not so popular now as it was a few years ago, exalgin is well worthy of a trial when other analgesic remedies fail. Exaltation. — That stage or type of mental disease in which the patient is possessed by ideas of his well-being, wealth, grandeur, power, and importance; it is met with in many forms of insanity, but is specially prominent and often referred to in general paralysis. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Delusional Insanity, Monomania of Exaltation). Examination. See Gynecology, Dia- gnosis IN ; P(.)ST - Mortem Methods ; Skin, Parasites {Method of Exatnination); Food (Inspection) ; School Children ; etc. Exanthemata.—The eruptive fevers, such as scarlet fever, small-pox, measles, varicella, " fourth disease," etc. /SVe under these^ maladies. Excerebration.—The removal of the brain in order to diminish the size of the fcetal head in labour and so to expedite delivery. See Labour, Operations (Emhryotomy). Excision. See Aneurysm {Treatment, Local, Excision) ; Ankle - Joint, Regions of. Operations (Excision); Elbow-Joint, Injuries AND Diseases (Operations, Excision); Hip-Joint, Diseases of (Operative Treatment, Excision) ; Knee-Joint, Diseases of (Treatment, Excision); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Carcinomata, Treatment); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries.