GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 449 which the normal anus is al>.sent, and the rectum opens into tiie vagina or vnlva (or rather into the urogenital sinus, for the anomaly is really a persistence of the early cloacal state). The chief symptom is the passage of faeces, with or without sphiricteric control, in the neighbour- hood of the posterior commissnre of the vulva. Operative interference, which is most likely to be successful if undertaken when the patient is about fifteen years old, consists in passing a probe in through the vulvar anal opening, and bringing it out at a spot corresponding to the normal position of the anus, and then dividing the parts lying between and bringing the rectum down and suturing it in position. Recently it has been suggested to split the fibres of the levator ani in order to gain a good sphincter. Vulva infantilis is of importance only as indicat- ing that in all probability the internal genitals likewise arc in an undeveloped or infantile state. Atresia hymenalis is a malformation which is presumably often met with, for many cases are on record, but there is reason for believing that many of these cases have really been instances of imperforation of the lower end of the vagina. At any rate the symptoms, diagnosis, and treat- ment of the anomaly are the same as those of the minor degree of vaginal atresia. The clitoris may be absent, less rarely it is split; both these malformations occur in association with epis- padias in women or with ectopia vesicse. Hyper- trophy of the clitoris and labia may be met with as a congenital anomaly, and may give rise to local irritation and to more distant reflex pheno- mena ; excision of the enlarged parts will then be indicated. Adhesion of the clitoris to its l^repuce and to the nymphaj has much the same symptoms as phimosis in the male, and may be cured by the separation of the adhesions. Finally, it may be noted that the hymen may be uimsually fl.eslty or touyli, or that it has an iibnormal shape {labiate, denticulate, fimbriated, or circular). When it is tough it may cause ilyspareunia or prevent coitus altogether, and when it is abnormally vascular it may lead to the occurrence of serious haemorrhage from rupture in coition. Sometimes there are two apertures in the hymeneal membrane {hymen septus, biforis), rarely there are several {hyr/ieii cribriforrnis). GenetOUS Idiocy.—Congenital mental defect in wiiich the pathology cannot be pro- perly diagnosed till after death (Ireland), such as that due to antenatal inflammation of the brain. See Mental Deficiency {Primarily Neiu'otic Type). Geneva Lens Measure. See Re- FRACi'ioN {Measureintnt of Cylinders). Genial.—-Relating to the chin, e.g. genio- hyoid, genio-glossus, genio-pharyngeus. vol.. Ill Geniculate Bodies. .See Physiology, Nervous System, CEiiKBuu.M {Visual Centre). Genital. — Relating to reproduction, e.i/. the genital canal and the genital organs. Genito - Urinary. — Relating to the genital ami tlio ui'iiiary organs in association ; these organs are closely related developmentally and anatomically, and in pathology disease of the one set is often associated with disease of the other. See Bladder ; Generation, Female Organs of; Kidney; Lung; Tuberculosis {Complications, Genito - Urinary Tuberculosis) ; Penis ; Prostate Gland ; Scrotum and Tes- ticle ; Urethra ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Venereal Disease. Genobiast.—A sexual or reproductive cell, ovum (ir spcnnatozoon. Gentianse Radix.—The dried roots of Gentiance lutea, containing an active bitter principle Gentio-picrin. Preparations—(1) Ex- tractum Gentianaj. Dose—2-8 grs.; (2) Infusum Gentiante Compositum. Dose—^--Is ; (3) Tinc- tura (j!entiana3 Composita. Dose—J--15- Gentian is a typical bitter, and is prescribed as a stomachic and general tonic, usually in com- bination with other drugs. It is widely used because it has a pleasant taste and is not so disagreeably bitter as Calumba and other mem- bers of this class. Genu.—The knee. The term is specially used in the description of certain malformations which may aftect the joint, e.g. genu recurvatuni, g. valgum, and g. varum. See Deformities {Lower Extremity); Knee-Joint, Diseases and Surgical Affections. Genu - pectoral Position. — The genu-pectoral or genu-facial jiosition is that in which a patient is placed wdien he (or she) takes up a kneeling attitude, and rests the weight of the upper part of the body on the chest or face and shoulder; the modified genu - pectoral or Sims' position is that commonly used in Gynecology. Geographical Tongue.—A peculiar form of eczema C?) of the tongue in which there are circinate patches of desquamation, which may run into each other and produce outlines resembling those of the continents and islands of a map. Geophagfia. —The practice of earth-eat- ing. See Pica ok Dirt-Eating. Georg-e's Calorigen. See Calo- rigen. Gerber's Process.—The estimation of the amount of fat in milk by collecting it on filter 23aper (free of fat) and extracting by ether. 29