264 FERRO-HiEMOL FerTO-haemol.—See Chlorosis {Treat- ment, Special).—A form of iron in organic com- bination. Ferroineter. — An instrument devised by Jolles for estimating the amount of iron in the blood. An oxide of iron is obtained by re- ducing a measured quantity of blood (0-05 c.c.) to ashes in a platinum dish, adding acid sulphate of potash, and evaporating the combination to dryness. The residue is then dissolved in hot water, and dilute hydrochloric acid and am- monium sulphocyanide solution are added to give a red solution of sulphocyanide of iron. This solution is compared colorimetrically with a standard solution containing a known quan- tity of iron. The result does not, as was for- merly supposed, give an accurate indication of the amount of haemoglobin in the blood. FerrO-ProteidS.—Proteids linked to an iron-containing molecule, as in the pigment of the blood. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Proteids). Ferropyrine. — A compound of per- chloride of iron and antipyrine, which acts as a haemostatic. Ferrum. See also An/emia; Children, Clinical Examination {Examination of Fceces) ; Chlorosis ; Diet {Mineral Constituents of Food); Drug Eruptions {Papular); Pharmacology ; Pigments op the Body and Excreta {Melanins); Toxicology {P er chloride of Iron); Urine, Patho- IjOGICAl Changes in {Inorganic Constituents, Metals). Metallic Iron has but one official py'eparation —Vinum Ferri—made by dissolving iron wire in sherry. It is acid in reaction, and can be prescribed along with arsenical preparations. Dose—1-4 5- Ferrum Redactum is a powder con- taining about 75 per cent of metallic iron, along with some iron oxide. Dose—1-5 grs. Prejxxra- tion—Trochiscus Ferri Redacti, 1 gr. in each. The salts of iron may be arranged in two groups, according as they are derived from the lower oxide, FeO, or from the higher oxide Fe.^Og. The former, the ferrous salts, are milder in action and generally more suitable for internal administration. The latter, the ferric salts, have more powerful local actions, and, although more stable outside the body, are, when taken internally, converted into the ferrous form be- fore being absorbed. The official Ferroiis Salts are the following :—1. Ferri Sulphas, translu- cent pale green rods, soluble 1 in 1| of water. Dose—-1-5 grs. Preparation — Mistura Ferri Composita, " Griffith's Mixture," the iron being in the form of the carbonate. Dose—^-Ig. 2. Ferri Sulpihas Exsiccatus, a white powder made from the sulphate by driving off most of the water of crystallisation by heat. Dose—1-3 grs. Preparations—(1) Pilula Ferri. Blaud's Pill. Made with sodium carbonate, which combines with the iron sulphate to form carbonate of iron. Each pill contains 1 gr. of ferrous car- bonate. Dose—5-15 grs. (2) Pilula Aloes et Ferri. Dose—4 - 8 grs. 3. Ferri Carhonas Saccharatus, a mild preparation with no astrin- gent action, well tolerated in large doses. Dose —10-30 grs., preferably in cachet. 4. Ferri Arsenas, a pale green powder when fresh, becom- ing blackened with time. It contains so little iron that its action is almost entirely that of arsenic. Dose—gr. 5. Ferri Phosphas, a pale blue powder. A mild drug, useful in rickets, scrofula, etc. Dose—5-10 grs. Pre- 2mrations—(1) Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis, each fl. dr. containing 1 gr. of iron phosphate. Dose —^-1 5- (2) Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis cum Quinina et Strychnina. Easton's Syrup. Each fl. dr. contains 1 gr. ferrous phosphate, -I gr. (juinine sulphate, -^^ gr. strychnine. Dose— i-l 3- 6. Syrupus Ferri lodidi. The iodide of iron is made by heating together iron wire and iodine. Dose—30-60 m. Besides the above official forms, many other ferrous preparations, proprietary and otherwise, are in common use, among which may be mentioned Syrupus Ferri Phosphatis Compositus (Chemical Food, Parrish's Syrup); mixtures analogous to Easton's Syrup, made up in glycerin or malt; Easton's Syrup equivalents in tabloid and pill; and numerous Blaud's Pill substitutes in capsule and cachet. The official Ferric Salts are the following:— 1. Liquor Ferri Perchloridi Fortis, a thick, dark, syrupy liquid, with strong localastringent action; not given internally. Preparations—(1) Liquor Ferri Perchloridi, 1 part of the strong solution to 3 of water, "Steel Drops." Dose—5-15 m. (2) Tinctura Ferri Perchloridi, same strength as the liquor. Dose—5-15 m. 2. Liquor Ferri Persulphatis, a dark red strongly astringent liquid. 3. Liquor Ferri Pemitratis, a clear brownish liquid, also astringent. Dose—5-15 m. 4. Liquor Ferri Acetatis, a deep red fluid. Dose —5-15 m. From Ferri Peroxidum Ilydratum the following scale preparations are made :—1. Ferrum Tartaratum, dark red in colour and soluble in water. Dose—5-10 grs. 2. Ferri et Quinince Citras, greenish scales, soluble 2 in 1 of water. 3. Ferri et Ammonii Citras, red scales, very soluble in water. Dose—5-10 grs. Pre- paration—Vinum Ferri Citratis. Dose—1-4 3- Attempts have been made to procure a satisfac- tory organic compound of iron, but without much success; nor is there any soimd reason why such a preparation should supersede the ordinary iron salts, suitably administered. " Carniferrin " and " Ferratin " are mixtures of meat and iron, given in doses of 8-15 grs. Liquor Ferri Albuminati and Liquor Ferri Pep- tonati are made with egg albumin. Dose—1-4 3- The latter is a suitable preparation for adminis- tration to premature infants. Liquor Ferri Dialysatus (B.P. 1885) has now to a large extent dropped out of use.