158 EPILEPSY First, there is the onset and frequency of epileptic attacks. The time of onset having been referred to under the etiological heading of age, the manner of onset may be now mentioned. In some cases attacks of le petit mal, often un- recognised as epileptic, may precede for years the onset of a severe fit; in others, one attack may be seen without any recun-ence for periods varying from a few months to as many years ; or the onset may be in the form of a series of severe seizures to be followed after an interval by single fits. The common method of onset is for the initial seizure to be followed at periods of a week or two, or a month or two, by similar attacks. As already pointed out, intermittent " wetting of the bed " is highly suggestive of fits occurring during sleep. Fits vary much in frequency, from one seizure once or twice a year or less, up to several dozen in one day. They occur both during waking and during sleep. A common time for their appearance is the period just before or just after rising in the morning. Some epileptics only have fits during sleep, which if slight may go luirecognised for a long time. Epileptic fits occur both singly and in batches. Usually during the interval the patient is free both from sensations and subjective symptoms, and in many instances is perfectly capable of carrying on his work or profession. At times, however, the fits follow each other with sixch rapidity that the condition known as the status epilepticus occurs. Here the patient passes rapidly out of one attack into another; and this recurrence may be so prolonged as to reduce him to a condition of danger, and death not infre- quently ensues. The study of the periodicity of epileptic fits is of scarcely more than academic interest. At the epileptic colony it has been found that they are most frequent in the first hour after getting up in the morning ; while fits were rare on going to bed. There were considerably more fits during waking than during sleeping hours, and more also in the house than outside. Secondly, epilepsy has an important relation with the sexual history in women. It is well known that they are often more frequent about the time of the menstrual periods; and the on- set of the disease in girls is usually associated with defect or delay in the starting of the cata- menia. Its relation to pregnancy is variable. This condition has been found to increase their frequency on the one hand, on the other to diminish or entirely arrest their occurrence during the period of carrying. Fits have been known to occur for the first time at quickening. Epilepsy occurring during lactation, or the fre- quency of the fits being augmented during that period, are well-known facts. In one case fits were only seen during lactation following succes- sive pregnancies, the weaning of the child invari- ably curing the disease. Thirdly, the mental condition of epileptics requires special reference. It is an important feature of the disease. In this connection there have to be considered the effects produced upon the mind by the recurrence of epileptic seizures over a number of years, as well as the attacks of acute insanity which replace or follow fits in some persons. This is to be studied along with epileptic insanity described in another article, (p. 164). {a) Either directly as the result of fits arising during infancy, or as the result of an inherited neurotic condition, epilepsy is closely associated with idiocy and imbecility. The cases are among the most difficult with which the physician has to deal. They are invariably dirty in habits, usually destructive, and always irritable. They can only be treated satisfactorily in the idiot asylums. {h) The general mental features of epileptics. There seems to be no doubt that the constant recurrence of epileptic fits over many years leads, in the majority of cases, to mental impair- ment and deterioration. In some cases it is so slight as to be scarcely perceptible, the only indications being a blunting of the memory and a dulling of the finer feelings and emotions. In others a more pronounced state of dementia exists, characterised by loss of memory, a slow- ness of perception and of appreciation of ordinary circumstances ; a want of initiatory power and inability to effectually carry out work, unless under direction; in others, hypochondriasis merging at times into actual delusional insanity of a temporary character; in others, irritability and impulsiveness to an abnormal extent; while nearly all epileptics show a morbid religious enthusiasm. Attention has already been called to the fact that the onset of epilepsy, or of individual fits or batches of fits, is observed to be preceded for some days or longer by variovis mental aberra- tions, such as unwonted dulness, hypochon- driasis, and loss of memory; an unusual sense of well-being and even at times distinct delu- sions, all of which may disappear under the influence of treatment. It has been already stated that an epileptic fit is not uncommonly followed by symptoms of an hysterical nature. This is the common con- dition, and is not necessarily confined to the female sex. In other cases acute mental symp- toms may follow an epileptic seizure, of which the most difficult to deal with, except in asylums, is acute epileptic mania,—a condition in which the person may become homicidal or suicidal, or subject to paroxysms of extraordinary fury and violence requiring restraint. " Masked " epilepsy is the name given to out- bursts of this nature when there is reason to suppose they replace epileptic seizures. At the opposite extreme is the acute epileptic dementia, sometimes seen after a batch of severe