ERYTHEMA 185 liero and there. Tlic nodules vary in size and may be raised as much as an eighth of an inch al)ove the surrounding surface, while coalescence of several nodules may lead to the formation of large patches. The affected parts are hotter to tlie touch than the normal skin, and the surface is generally smooth, though slight scaling may be present. Induration is very marked. Crocker has separated the cases which he has collected into two classes, in one of which the disease affected only young females with a rheumatic or gouty personal or family history, the other occurring in elderly males with a gouty personal history. In the former type the lesions were ei'ythematous at fii'st, then becoming purple, some involuting while others were developing, and the lesions were A^ery firm and not oedematous. In the latter the lesions began as purple nodules, persisted through life, and were softer to the touch, the elevation being largely due to (Bdema. The histology of the former type was simply a fibro-cellular structure inore or less like cheloid. Some cases appeared to derive benefit from arsenic, but Crocker himself points out that the improvement may have been spontaneous, since some of the lesions were undergoing involution before the com- mencement of the treatment. The lesions on the hands seemed far more resistant than those elsewhere. VI. Erythema serpens (Morrant Baker) (synonym. Erysipeloid Rosenbach). — This is a disease chiefly seen in those who handle animal food, especially game. It nearly always com- mences as an inflammation round a trifling injury which has been received from a few days to a fortnight before. There is an inflammatory pinkish blush surrounding the site of the previous trauma, which is itself often already healed. The erythema spreads centrifugally as a ring from this point, and later on breaks up into irregular curves and blotches. The sites are usually the finger-joints and knuckles. Although there is but little swelling and the objective symptoms are very slight, lymphan- gitis being practically absent, there is marked burning and shooting pain, often radiating up the arm, and the patient bends the finger gingerly. The disease lasts, perpetiuilly ex- tending centrifugally, for from two to six weeks, "when it dies away, leaving no after-eftects. The treatment recommended is salines internally and fomentations locally. Rosenbach found in his cases an organism which he first believed to 1)6 a coccus, but later classified as a cladothrix. From pure cultures of this organism he succeeded in reproducing the disease after an incubation period of forty-eight hours. Erythema Infectiosum. See Fourth I>iskasic. Erythraea. — Various species of Ery- thnua (such as the Centaury) belonging to the order of the Gentianefe have been used medicin- ally as tonics, as fel.irifuges, and in dyspepsia. ErythraStTia.—A contagious skin disease due to a fungus, the microsporon niimitissininm. See Skin ; Parasites {Tinea Erythramna). Erythrite. — A tetrahydric alcohol, C^H,.(OH)j, found in Roccella tinctoria, etc. ; Lichen sugar. ErythrobiastS. — Rudimentary (nucle- ated) red blood corpuscles. Hee Blood {Cor- puscular Elements aiul Granvles). ErythrOChloropsy. — Blue-blindness, only red and green being distinguished. See Colour Vision {Colour Blindness, Blue-Blind- ness). Erythrocytes.—The red corpuscles of the blooil. See V>\jOO\) {Corpjuscular Elements) ; Physiology, Blood {Cells of the Blood). Erythrocythsemla.—An increase in the numlier of red Ijlood corpuscles, such as is supposed to occur in lKem()])liilia. ErythrOCytorrheXBS.—The breaking up of red corpuscles and the escape from them of round granules ; plasmorrliexis. ErythrOCytOSChisiS.—The degenera- tion of the red blood corpuscles and the for- mation from them of cells like the blood- platelets ; plasmoschisis. ErythrOCytoSiS.—The occurrence of red cells of the fu'tal type {e.g. nucleated) in the blood. ErythrodextrirJ. — A dextrin, formed by the action of the saliva on starch, and giving a brown colour with iodine (hence its name). See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Salivary Digestion). ErythroS Nstras.—A non-ofiicial drug, given in doses of ,', to 1 grain, and having the same action as the nitrites {e.g. nitrite of amyl). ErythromelaBg^ia. — A morbid con- dition, resembling Raynaud's disease, in which paroxysmal pain, redness, and swelling occur, more particularly in the feet. See Raynaud's Disease {Erythromelalgiei); Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata {Eruption due to metol); Hysteria {Syinptoms, Disorders of Circidatinn) : Nails, Affections of {Diseases of the Nervous System) ; Ner\-es, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Arsenical Neuritis, Sympfotnatology). E ry t hrophlceum.— A non-ofti cial d rug, known also as Casca or Sassy Ijark, containing an alkaloid {Erythrophlocina), and given in the form of a Tinetura Erythrophlan (dose, 5 to 10 m.) as a cardiac tonic. See Alkaloids ( Vegetable).