EMBEYOLOGY, HUMAN 75 weeks as beginning with the impregnation of the ovum by tlio spermatozoon, then true embryonic hfe must manifestly begin at a date later than that. How much latei', however, we are not in a posi- tion to state. If we allow a week, we are pro- bably giving too nnich ; if we decide upon less than a week, we may not be giving enough. In the absence of exact information, shall we say a week ? Shall we let it be understood that pi'o- visionally we regard the beginning of truly embryonic life as coinciding with the beginning of the second week of antenatal life, reckoning from the date of impregnation of the ovum ? I am reminded that we do not know at what time subsequent to coitus imjjregnation occurs. That I know well, and I have, therefore, in my scheme of the divisions of antenatal life (Fig. 1), set apart a period of half a week during which the delegated spermatozoon is presumably travelling towards the destined ovimi. I make the sup- position that three and a half days after coitus impregnation occurs and antenatal life in its unified form {i.e. within the walls of one cell) begins; a week later I presume that embryonic existence commences with the appearance of the first rudiments of the embryo in the embryonic area ; and in five weeks after that I assume that typically embryonic life is over and neofoetal existence has begun. This conception is shown in schematic form in Fig 2. These exact periods of time are not, of course, insisted upon. They ai'e advanced only as possi- bilities, which may turn out to be pi'obabilities, but which may also prove to he quite otherwise. I do not indeed think it likely that it will be found that the whole period of antenatal life in the ordinary sense of the term (say, forty weeks or two hundred and eighty days) is an exact multiple of embryonic existence. Our knowledge of Nature's operations and mode of working out her results does not lead us to exjject that she deals with exact multiples, as we understand them. Nature, we can well believe, in her cal- culations is not limited to the simpler exercises of arithmetic ; she can deal with fractions ! Let us commence our study of the chronology of embryonic life by realising how important it is that we should form in our mind a visual image of the hiunan embryo in the various weeks of its kaleidoscopic existence. It is a most dithcult task ; nevertheless, however diffi- cult it is, it must be attempted, else all efforts to form rational ideas regarding the pathological phenomena of these embryonic times must end resultless or in error. In the later weeks {e.g. the fifth and sixth) of embryonic life, the diffi- culties are not so overpowering, for observations of human embryos of these ages ai-e not want- ing, and conclusions may fairly be drawn from them. But in the early weeks ! We know almost nothing of human blastoderms of less than seven days' age, we know but little of embryos of the second week, and even up to the end of the first month embryological facts are scanty. The (lucesita, indeed, are many, but the (htta are few. So the embryologist has been driven to study the early stages in the lower animals, and has not always been careful to diistinguish between the occurrences which are met with in them, and those which there is good evidence to show take place in the hu:nan embryo. In the text-books the details of Com- parative Embryology are often interpolated among those of Human Embryology; and writers, in transcribing from original sources of information, are oftentimes careless about distinguishing between wliat has been found, for instance, in the embryo chick, ralibit, or pig, and what in the human subject. All this is very discouraging, and, in order to correct many misapprehensions, it would be well worth some embryologist's time and trouble to edit a text- book in which all the facts known certainly regarding the human embryo were printed in red letters. I do not depreciate the value of Comparative Embryology, but I deny that its data can be unquestioningly transferred to fill up gaps in our knowledge of Human Embryology. Human Embryology so constructed is simply a series of scanty facts laced together by a series of assumptions. The Blastocyst in the Second Week aftek Impregnation A. At the Beginning of the Second Week What mental picture can we form of the human blastocyst as it exists during the second week after impregnation 1 Two things, at least, we may rest well assured of: (1) the appear- ances of the blastocyst at the beginning and end of this week will be very diff'erent, and (2) the embryo will, in size and apparent importance, seem almost insignificant in comparison with its annexa and the decidual membranes. Develop- ment is very rapid in these early days, and a week is a long time in respect of the changes which are effected in it. At a later date than the second week, the truly embryonic part of the new organism is little more than an appendage of its own vesicles and membranes, and it may be concluded that this character is still more emphasised at the time with which we have here to do. Of these two things we feel sure within measiire, but of what else 'i Let us try to picture to ourselves what has taken place towards the close of the first week after impregnation. The impregnated ovum, now doubtless a blastodermic vesicle or blasto- cyst, has found its way into the uterine cavity. In so doing it has not dropped into an open space, as diagrams deceitfull}' suggest to the mind's eye, but has insinuated itself between uterine walls in complete contact, and possibly may have had some difficulty in thus making its way. It passes some distance from the uterine orifice of the Fallopian tube down which it has