GENERAL PARALYSIS 421 form an early symptom, later there may be optic neiiritis, atrophy, and blindncKS. The pupils are general)}' unequal, often irregular in outline and defective in their reaction. In- equality, though common, is not pathognomonic of general paralysis. The reaction of the rctino- iridal apparatus to stimuli is, however, of great importance. The rhythmic oscillations of the iris corresponding to the respiratory rhythm may be abolished ; the normal dilatation of the pupil associated with bodily muscular movements may also be absent. Of more importance, how- ever, is the failure to produce dilatation by acoustic, tactile, painfid, ;md electrical stimuli. This " reflex dilatation " (Erb) may exist in spite of anaesthesia of the surface stimulated, and the failure of this reaction in cases of general paralysis is unaccounted for. It is difficult to obtain this reflex when the pupils are contracted. Sometimes, however, though no response can be obtained to stimulation of the skin, dilatation may result from emotional disturliance througli the agency of the sympathetic. The so-called " hippus," or wide rhythmic oscillations occurring independently of respiration, is a symptom also seen in general paralysis. Consensual dilatation or contraction to light stimuli is sometimes impaired. Failure of one eye to react both to indirect and direct light stimuli indicates that eye to be the one afi'ected, and the lesion to be a paralysing lesion affecting the symjjathetic fibres of the defective side. When there is no marked contrast on shading both eyes, failure on one side to contract or dilate on direct light stimulation, failure on the same side to excite its fellow consensually, and its own consensual reaction, following excitation of the sound eye, then the lesion is probably in front of the chiasma, either retinal or affecting one optic nerve. Bevan Lewis has indicated that in certain cases of general paralysis the initial contraction to concentrated light may be succeeded by a secondary dilatation—the pupil expanding widely in spite of the concentrated illumination, and he regards this as one of the earliest signs of a failing motor oculi nucleus—the centric expan- sions of the third nerve being readily exhausted. There seems to be no definite relationship Ijotween pupillary inequality and the efficiency of the iridal reactions. Paralytic mydriasis is usually associated with exaggerated knee-jerks, and sometimes ankle clonus. Tongue tremors, marked att'ections of articulation, tremors of the lips and muscles of the lower facial group and of the hands. Tremors and twitching movements of the muscles of the brow are said to indicate alcohol as a probable factor of causation. Tabetic cases with iridoplegia have also altered reflexes. Romberg's sign may be present. Sometimes this sign cannot he obtained upon closing the eyes and approximating the feet, but if the body is bent forward swaying movements occur. Where the pupils are small or myotic the symptoms are usually tabetic. Accommodative reaction may be retained, but the Argyll- Robertson symptom is present. Usually the oculo-motor symptoms appear first—the loss of knee-jerk appearing later on. Bevan Lewis tabulates the following five groups of symptoms as occurring in progi'cssive paralysis of the insane :— 1. Paralytic mydriasis; a partial reflex irido- plegia (light). Increased myotatic irritability. Excessive facial tremor and speech ti'oubles. Gi'eat optimism with profound dementia. 2. Mydriasis with associative iridoplegia rapidly passing into the cycloplegic form—an early symptom. Frequent myotatic excess, but no contractures. Late speech trouble. Acute excitement with frequent convulsions. Very rapidly fatal course. (Preponderance of syphi- litic history.) 3. Spastic myosis; a complete reflex irido- plegia. Absent or greatly impaired knee-jerk. Failure of equilibration; locomotor ataxy, de- fective sensibility. Very defective articidation. Much optimism and excitement. 4. Late eye symptoms: pai-alytic mydriasis, a partial reflex iridoplegia (for light only). Ataxic pai'aplegia confined to lower extremities. (Arms do not participate.) Great facial ataxy with extreme troubles of speech. Epileptiform seizures ushering in pronounced mental en- feeblement. 5. No oculo-motor symptoms beyond occasional inequality. No contractures, but notable myo- tatic excess. No disturbance of equilibration, locomotion, or sensation. Speech troubles not pronounced. Epileptiform seizures very rare, but from the first progressive deepening dementia. The handwriting is almost characteristic. Letters are often shaky, incomplete, detached, or illegible. In the early stages general para- lytics also often write voluminously and quickly. Seizures of various kinds occur either as early symptoms or as marked features of the later stages of the disease. They vary in severity from simple congestive to epileptiform or apo- plectiform attacks. Some have merely slight attacks of giddiness, temporary loss of conscious- ness {petit mal), or transient loss of function of one of the special senses. In the stadium acutum congestive seizures are common and may resemble those of epilepsy or apoplexy. These attacks sometimes come on without warning, or they may be heralded by slight rise of temperature, confusion of ideas, or by some gastric disorder. They are irregular in their recurrence. Sometimes the epileptiform fits follow a definite line of development, and they usually leave behind them more physical and mental weakness than do ordinary epileptic fits. Apoplectiform seizures, on the other hand, are followed by less serious physical and mental troubles than in the case of true apoplexy. The