91 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN now receded from tlie surface of the epilihist or ectoderm; it l>ecomes pear-shaped ratlier tlian spherical, and forms a labyrinth in which vesti- bular and cochlear portions and a recessus vestibuli can be dimly recognised. Such are the more striking and evident external features of the embryo of the fourth week. We must now try to form a picture in our mind of the internal ari-angemcnts found at elements can lie made out in the neural tube wall: spongioV)lasts or sustentacular elements and neiu'oblasts or young nerve-cells (the future neurons). To l)egin with, the wall consists of a single layer of columnar cells or spongioblasts, hut soon at the point wdiere these cells border the lumen of the canal otiier elements appear between them called germinating or germinal cells, and from these arise the neuroblasts. The this epuch, and it will be convenient to study in order the nervous, alimentary, cii'culatory, urinary, and supporting systems of the em- bryonic body. The spinal cord is the less differentiated part of the nervous system at this age, so it will be convenient to study it first. It consists of a tuVie with a central cavity which is still relatively large and has an elongated oval form, the long- diameter of the oval being antero-postcrior. The lateral walls are thick ; the anterior and posterior are thin, and are called the roof- and floor-plates or mid-dorsal and mid-ventral lamina'. At the beginning of the fourth week two kinds of tissue- spongiolilasts multiply and form the sustentative or sustentacular part of the spinal cord, and more particularly what is called the neuroglia. The inner ends of the spongioblasts iniite to form a close network next the canal cavity, the inner limiting membrane or ependj'mal layer. There is an outer layer formed by the branched prolongations of the ependyma cells, which forms the marginal velum or liandschleier of His. Between these two layers is a very delicate net- work, which becomes the mantle laj'er, and into its meshes tiie neui'oblasts wander. Tliis wandering would seem to take place by an accumulation of the protoplasm on the distal