FACIAL NERVE, PARALYSIS OF 233 view. Minkowski examined a case of " rheu- matic " facial palsy and foinid a true degenera- tive neuritis with destruction of the myelin sheaths, and without any interstitial change ; and Dejerine and Theohari have had a similar experience. So too a case of facial palsy consequent on middle - ear disease examined by Darkschewitch and Tichonow revealed a parenchymatous neuritis witliout interstitial change; while similar observations have been made by Bikeles and by Flatau. Symptoms.—When there is complete paralysis of the muscles supplied by one facial nerve there is an inability to perform any facial movements on the affected side. Not only are vohmtary movements impossible, but emotions such as crying and laughing equally fail to evoke any movement in the aftected side of the face; the difference in the behaviour of the facial muscles on the two sides under such circumstances is very striking and incongruous. In attempts to raise the eyebrows, as in tlie expression of surprise, or to frown, the wrink- ling of the skin of the forehead is limited to the unaffected side, that on the aflfected side remaining smooth and motionless, except in so far as it may be pulled on from the healthy side. When the patient attempts to close the eyes the lids do not meet, and the eyeball is at the same time rolled upwards, so that the cornea is concealed under the upper lid, while sclerotic is' alone visible between the unclosed lids. There is inability to raise the upper lip, as in showing the teeth, and the lip also hangs motionless when the patient smiles, except that the whole mouth is drawn to the unaffected side owing to the unopposed action of the healthy zygomatic muscles. Although the want of tone in the affected iiuiscles makes the difference on the two sides of the face obvious during repose even in young- people, the diflerence is much more striking in the old, in whom the skin has lost much of its elasticity, and in whom wrinkles and furrows are very pronounced. The loss of elasticity of the skin allows the lower lid to fall away from the globe, and the tears, which are much increased by the irritation of the exposed eye, escape on to the cheek instead of finding their way down the nasal duct, and cause the patient much annoyance. Furrows and wrinkles are smoothed away oti the affected side, while those on the unaffected side cease at the middle line. Tiie naso-labial groove is much more shallow or practically obliterated, while the skin of the lower part of the cheek hangs jjouch-like, and there is marked drooping of the angle of the mouth on the affected side. During sleep the eye is only partly closed. Attempts to make a puff, as in blowing out a candle, result in failure, in that there is inability to press the lips together on the affected side, while whistling is equally impossible. On drinking, the lic|uid tends to escape at the corner of the mouth on the paralysed side, while the mastication of food on this side is much hampered, owing to the paralysed buc- cinator allowing the food to become lodged between the cheek and jaw. The character of the patient's speech may be a little changed in consequence of the difficulty of articulating labial consonants. The less obvious defects that are present consist in inability to dilate the nostril on the affected side in sniffing; so, too, persons pre- viously able to move the external ear voluntarily find that they are no longer able to do so, and there is inability to bring the platysma into action, as may be done normally by making the patient depress the lower lip. The paralysis of the stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digas- tric cause no detectable defect. In consequence of certain fallacious state- ments that have been made to the contrary, it is necessary to insist on the fact that the palate is not paralysed in an uncomplicated case of paralysis due to a lesion of the facial nerve. Moreover, it must be remembered that mere asymmetry of palate or deflection of the uvula from its mesial position is not proof of unilateral paralysis of the palate, but that only when defect of movement is detected in the absence of cicatricial adhesion consequent on past inflammatory conditions is the diagnosis of paralysis warranted. The existence of paralysis of the palate in conjunction with that of the face indicates that the facial nei've is not the only one affected. So, too, the tongue, when protruded, may appear to deviate to the side of the facial paralysis, an erroneous impression caused by the asymmetry about the mouth, for there is no paralysis of the tongue in an uncomplicated case of facial paralysis. Patients commonly complain of pain on the affected side of the face, and notably in the eye on that side, but there is no blunting of cutaneous sensibility in uncomplicated cases of facial paralysis. None of the special senses are blunted with the exception of taste, which may lie defective in certain cases ; but smell may appear to be defective on the side of paralysis in consequence of the defective action of the dilator naris in sniffing. Hearing, on the other hand, may become more acute on the affected side, owing to the unopposed action of the tensor tympani consequent on paralysis of the stapedius, so that there is increased sensitiveness especially to musical notes of low tone. Taste is only affected in those cases in which the lesion of the facial nerve is somewhere between the origin of the chorda tympani and the geniculate ganglion, and the loss of taste is then detected on the anterior two-thirds of the tongue on the side of the facial paralysis. Some observers account for the loss of taste by