306 FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL grow, and even inoculation of the rabbit may fail to induce the characteristic septicsemia. In fact, the writer has found that inoculation of the rabbit usually does fail, even when a consider- able quantity of pleural pus is injected, whereas inoculation even of a small quantity of an emulsion prepared from pneumonic lung tissue usually succeeds. Yet, where other means have proved futile, the organisms may with certainty be identified by microscopic examination of films specially stained to show the capsules of the degenerating cocci. The method which has given the writer most satisfaction is that recently devised by Richard Muir and hitherto unpublished. The essential part of the process consists in the use of a special mordant prepared by mixing two parts of a 20 per cent watery solution of tannic acid, two parts of a saturated watery solution of mercuric chloride, and five parts of a saturated watery solution of potash alum. A thin film of the suspected material is spread out on a clean cover-glass, and gently dried over a flame. A few drops of the mordant are filtered on to the film, allowed to remain for about two minutes, and thoroughly washed in water, then in methy- lated spirit, and in water again. The film is now stained in Ziehl-Neelsen's carbol-fuchsin for two or three minutes, while very gentle heat is applied till the steam begins to rise. After washing in water, the mordant is again applied for about two minutes, and washed off as before. Finally the film is stained for about two minutes in a saturated watery solution of methylene blue, washed in water, differentiated in methy- lated spirit, dehydrated in absolute alcohol, cleared in xylol, and mounted in balsam. By this means the bodies of the pneumococci take on a bright red colour, while their capsules are stained blue. When degenerated forms are present, it is found that the capsules persist and are recognisable long after the cocci within have lost all semblance of their normal form, and even after the cocci have disappeared. It is not uncommon to find that several cocci retain their characteristic structure, but that the great majority are in all stages of degeneration, some being represented by minute streaks or dots within the capsule, others by the presence of the capsule alone. Of the other organisms which may cause empyema the streptococcus has already been mentioned as by far the most common. It usually occurs in a pure condition, and may be recognised and isolated with comparative ease, even when there has occurred a secondary in- fection by other organisms. Bacteria less commonly present are the staphylococci, the micrococcus tetragenus, and the bacillus coli communis, the last named occurring especially in suppurative pleurisy associated with or follow- ing a septic condition of the peritoneum or abdominal organs. Among those still more rarely found in pleural eifusion should be mentioned the typhoid bacillus after enteric fever, and the influenza bacillus (Pfeiffer). Pericardial Effusions. — Much less is known of the bacteriology of pericardial eff"usions. For obvious reasons the fluid is seldom examined during life unless excessive in amount — an event of infrequent occurrence—or unless sup- puration is suspected. Most cases of simple acute pericarditis are, therefore, not investi- gated. The frequent association of pericarditis with rheumatism and chronic nephritis would appear to indicate that most simple inflamma- tory exudations in the sac are not etiologically related to any known organism. The tubercle bacillus must, however, be noted as the causal agent in some cases. Suppurative conditions of the pericardium are much more commonly the result of secondary infection from other foci of suppuration in the body, and it is here necessary only to state that any of the pyogenic organisms, including the pneumococcus, may be found in the pericardial pus. As in the pleura, however, a pneumo- coccal pericarditis may occur as a primary infection. Peritoneal Effusions. — Peritoneal inflamma- tory effusions can almost without exception be correlated with some known microbe. In the common form of acute peritonitis secondary to some lesion of the alimentary tract, whereby infection of the peritoneum occurs from the contents of the bowel, whether actual perfora- tion exists or merely local damage to the wall, the factor of greatest significance is the organism or closely related group of organisms, denoted by the term bacillus coli communis. Sometimes these are the only organisms present, but more often there is a multiple infection by the numerous intestinal bacteria, among which the bacillus coli may or may not predominate. In some cases after perforation the infection may be so mixed, and the organisms all so vigorous in their growth, that it is hard to say which is the causal agent even after experimental inocula- tion. It has been suggested that an indication may be obtained by examining the blood also, as presumably it would be infected, if at all, by the organism or organisms of highest patho- genicity. In many cases of septic peritonitis, more or less localised to the pelvis, and occurring especi- ally in women, the gonococcus may be found. It is noteworthy that microscopic examination alone can never afford a satisfactory proof of the presence of gonococci, as their reactions, morpho- logy, and relations to leucocytes may be simu- lated by other diplococci found in urethral and vesical diseases and in some associated pelvic conditions. It is essential to complete diagnosis that a culture should be prepared on Wert- heim's media, or, if none is available, on blood agar. When, however, the staining reactions