FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF 313 ■enclosed entirely within its bag of membranes, •and is connected with the outer one (chorion) by a vascular stalk. The zona pellucida has disappeared, leaving the chorion exposed upon the wall of the ovum, and the latter has thrown out numerous branching processes containing vascular twigs from the allantoic vessels ; these processes are the chorionic villi, and at the end ■of the first week they are found upon almost the whole surface of the chorion. The next important step is the formation of attachments to the maternal structures, by which the de- veloping ovum is retained in position and preserved from disruption. These at- tachments are provided by the develop- ment of the decidua and the union of the chorionic villi with this membrane. The Decidua.—The time-honoured view that menstruation in some way prepares the uterus for the rece^ition ■of a fertilised ovum lias much in its favour; but tliat its influence is not essential is proved by the fact tliat pregnancy not infrequently occurs quite independently of it. The structure of the endometrium in the quiescent stage ■and during tlie menstrual process has been described elsewhere. The decidua •differs from the endometriiun in tlie following points :—1st, The connective tissue corpuscles become converted into large cells of epitheloid type with one ■or two globular nuclei; these are called the " decidual cells," and are rarely if •ever found in the endometrium except in connection with pregnancy. 2nd, The glands proliferate and become -dilated, especially in their deeper parts. 3rd, In consequence, the decidua be- •comes rouglily divided into two layers, a super- ficial compact layer and a deep ampuUary layer. 4th, The vascularity of the membrane is greatly increased, and numerous small interstitial hfcmorrhages are formed. It is usual to distinguish three divisions of the 'decidua; the decidua serotiiui is tlie poi'tion which corresponds to the site of attachment of the ovum and partakes in the formation of the placenta; the decidua reflexa is the portion which at a very early period grows over the •ovum so as to enclose it; the decidua vera is the remaining portion, covering the greater part ■of the uterine surface, which at first has no ■dix-ect relation to the ovum at all. All parts of the decidua are essentially alike in structiu'e as well as in origin. No decidua is formed in the •cervix. Leopold lias described with great care a seven •days' liuman ovum which he discovered by ■accident in a uterus removed for cancer of the •cervix (Fig. 5). He found the uterine mucosa much thickened in the body, but unaltered in i ■'the cervix. The ovum was completely enclosed in a fold of the membrane, so that we know that even at this early jseriod the reflexa is fully formed. Folds of the decidua grow up around the ovum and meet over its free pole so as to completely invest it. From Leopold's illustra- tion (Fig. 6) it is apparent that the decidua and the chorion are separated by a considerable space, except at the two poles of the ovum; at the pole of attachment a serotinal process is in direct contact with the chorion, and at the free pole, where there are no villi, chorion and reflexa are united over a considerable area. The space thus resulting (chorio<lecidiwl space) is occupied by the chorionic villi, which ai'e seen in longitudinal, transverse, or oblique section in the drawing. Most of the villi are free ; some are attached to the decidua by their tips (Fig. 6, h); others have penetrated it deeply, and are seen in cross-section embedded in decidual tissue (Fig. 6, /'). Around the villi are masses of red and white blood corpuscles, and one or two delicate capillaries are seen opening through the serotina into the chorio - decidual space (Fig. 6, e). At a somewhat later period (end of second week), as Leopold has' shown in a second case, the whole chorionic surface is beset with villi, and the chorio-decidual space is continuous around the entire ovum. These points are of great interest and import- ance. They indicate that at this early period chorionic villi are attached to the highly vascular decidual membrane which entirely surrounds the ovum, while maternal blood is poured into the chorio-decidual space, thus bringing the foetal tissues into direct contact with the maternal blood. A simple form of placentation is thus established, which by the end of the