507 GOUT two forms — pota«siii)ii iiitratu or aiiurioiiiuni sulphate. Now it is by no iiioaus immaterial to liim ill which of these forms the land is fed. His choice depends on many things, one of the most iinpoitaiit from onr present point of view being their relative !<(jlnbility. If the land is badly drained, and especially if Lhe rainfall be considerable, he uses the less soluble ammonium sulphate in order to minimise the risk of the nitrogen being washed away and so rendered unavailable for tiie growth and maintenance of his grain. So it is with the human subject, but only in a more elaborate way. The indi- vidual (pialities of the tissues, their drainage system and the relative solnl)ilities (^f the differ- ent food ingredients as commonly prepared, constantly demand careful consideration. The question of diet is certainly the j^^iramount one. Its influence is profound, not only on the in- dividual, but on the race, and its importance was well defined by Sir William Roberts when he wrote that one geiiei'ation of scientific dietetics would produce an influence upon humanity second only to a new creation of the i-ace. Meats, etc.—From the earliest times some writers have regarded all or at any rate most kinds of muscle food as injurious to the gouty, and as in other debated points in the subject history of the disease many experimental obser- vations have been Virought forward to prove this point, but, as a rule, these observations have been made in the much too narrow field of uric acid excretions. The most recent observa- tions (Taylor) indicate that the commonly accepted view that a meat diet is associated with an increase in the uric acid excretion is an erroneous one, and on the whole we may take it as definitely shown, both by practical experi- ence and theoretical experiments, that a gouty subject may take a measured quantity of meats in an easily digested form. In the use of meats it is not only important that these should be taken in an easily assimil- able form, but that they siiould not be accom- panied by an undue admixture of other food- stuffs. It is held by some that in such cases the fact of the carbohydrates and fats being more readily oxidised in the tissues, leads to defective combustion of the albuminous foods. This subject has been previously discussed, but whatever the scientific truth may be, the fact remains that we must look for the cause of any injurious effects of meat more in its ipiality and in the form in which it is administered. If tu(j little nitrogenous food be taken an increased decomposition of nuclear-holding tissues may result, as has been proved in a case of complete starvation, when typical acute gout developed in the course of the ol)servatioii. W^e must, however, bear in mind that a strong meat diet, that is, meat twice (.>r thrice daily, is an acid food owing to the imperfect neutralising of the sidphurir and plmsphoric acid previously referred to. This may be in part rectified b}' the consumption of the alkaline talile waters i-efei'red to later. We have also to consider that the tastes and inclinations of the greater number of gouty subjects demand a certain supply of meat, and, by taking it in moderate amount, the supply of nitrogenous food necessary for tiie maintenance of the albumin in the body is more readily obtained. With regard to the different kinds of animal food, white meats, e.j/. fish and chicken, are more suitable than red meats owing to their more ready digestil)ilit3', and also in the case of fish to the smaller proportion of nitrogen present in equal bulk. The conhrnicd gouty suliject is wise to limit his consumption of red meat to one meal in the day or even less, and further, to make as a routine a selection of the red and white meats similar to that indicated in case Mrs. E., p. ")20. The whole question of a meat diet is summed up in its digestibility, which in turn bears a definite ratio to the simplicity of the meal in which the meat is a component part. The temporary diet of meat and hot water which is of such value in suit- able cases, is a simple one, and to its simplicity we must largely look for an explanation of its beneficial effects. What has been said of meat holds also good for other animal foods. The various kinds of fishes and game can all be taken V)y a gouty subject, but what we must have regard to is the amount of admixture with other foods and drinks. Not iiifrequentlj' inno- cent substances taken at the end of a iiighly niti'Ogenous mixed meal are regarded as the noxious agents when in reality they have played a quite subordinate role. High game and very fatty meats should be avoided. Under this heading a few practical points may l>e mentioned about the culinary aspects of sou])s, meats, and fish. It is impossible to over-estimate the importance of this subject; the want of recognition of its importance is, 1 think, one of the causes of the very diverse difftreiices of opinion entertained as to the beneficial or noxious infiueiice of various dietetic substances. iSoiips.—Wliat sdups ma}- a gouty person par- take of'? The answer to this (piestion will dejjend on the digestive capacity, but in coming to a decision we must take into consideration some elementai-y points in the preparation of the various soups. It has been stated that tliere are perhaps not less than 500 soups, but regarded analytically, there are onlj' a few leading sjiecies from which the different varieties are produced by additions and combinations of flavours. (<■() A clear decoction of meat or bones which, when weak, forms a broth or a " tea," and when