421 GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY bowels have been allowed to remain constipated for a long pei'iod. The likelihood of ulceration at such times must be remembered, and im- mediate steps must be taken to reduce the distension. Sometimes a turpentine enemata (01. terebinth ]\x., with soap and water gvj., for a child of six months) will give temporary relief. Sometimes mere digital examination of the rectum will allow gas and ilnid faBces to escape. The passage of a long soft catheter up the rectum may be tried, and, combined with very gentle pressure on the colon, this may evacuate some of the gas. If gas or liquid fa3ces continue to come away through the tube in occasional gushes it is sometimes well to leave the tube in the rectum for an hour or more to prevent reaccumulation of flatus. Creasote every three hours) sliould be given by mouth, as it certainly gives some relief to acute distension. The question of surgical interference is one of some difficulty. In the early stage the general health is often quite good, and one has to balance the possibility of the child living for several years, perhaps even to adult life, with the use of simple medicinal remedies, against a possible cure by an operation which experience shows to be one of great risk. On the other hand, if surgical interference be deferred until the distension is extreme, the child is in far worse condition to stand the operation, and the difficulties of operation are considerably in- creased. Some of the cases in which stu-gical treatment has been tried were in the exti'eme stage, and the fatal results are perhaps to be attriljuted in part to this fact. It must be mentioned, however, that in two cases operation appears to have been successful, one in which colotomy was performed (Osier), the other in which the descending colon and rectinn were reserted (Treves). Prolapsus Recti This is a frequent result of straining from any cause. It is more common in children of two to six years than in actual infancy. In infants it is often associated with a marasmic condition, the tissues of the ischio-rectal fosste are so wasted that they afford insufficient support to the rectum, which therefore tends to prolapse. Constipation, diarrhaa, the irrita- tion of thread-worms, a polypus in the rectum, a tight foreskin, calculus in the bladder—any of these conditions may be the exciting cause of [jrolapse of the rectum. Symptoms. — In the mildest cases only a narrow rim of mucous membrane projects through the anus, and the projection may be so slight that at the end of defecation it is pulled in by muscular contraction without artificial aid. Such a degree is of importance only as the precursor of the more troublesome condition, where the prolapsed mucous mem- brane remains down until returned artificially. In more severe cases two or three inches of ex- troverted rectum may project from the anus, and in this condition the whole wall of the bowel descends, and even the peritoneal pouch may be dragged down. The prolapsed portion j is seen as a cylindrical tumour projecting from j the anus, and showing on its outside the bright ' red, often congested, mucous membrane, and at its apex the lumen of the bowel. Where the prolapse has been allowed to remain down for several hours or days the exposed mucous mem- brane may become dry and cracked, bleeding on the least manipulation, and sometimes deeply ulcerated. Prognosis.—As a rule, treatment of the cause j produces rapid improvement, the prolapse be- 1 comes less frequent, and then ceases altogether. So long as it can be reduced easily, and is never allowed to remain down more than a few minutes, the prolapse is not dangerous; but where it has been allowed to remain unreduced for several days, and reduction has been accomplished with great difficulty, the writer has twice known the condition to prove fatal. Treatment.—The reduction of the prolapse can usually be accomplished by gentle pressure with the fingers covered by a soft oiled rag, the child meanwhile lying on its side. Application of cold, in the form of iced water, to the pro- lapsed mucous membrane may assist reduction in difficidt cases. Where there is great difficulty, owing to continual straining, or to swelling or inflammation of a neglected prolapse, it may be necessary to administer chloroform. After the prolapse has been returned a starch and opium enema should be given, and for some days astringent injections, or injections of cold water, may be used once or twice a day. The application of a broad strap of plaster across the buttocks, so as to pull the buttocks together and suj^jsort the rectum, is often eftectual, and with this a pad over the anus may be combined. Merely lying on the back seems to do good in some cases. A very efficient method for bad cases is to susjjend the legs by stirrups, as is done some- times for fractured thigh, the child lying on its back with the hips supported on a jjillow. In a troublesome case the child should defecate, lying either on its back or on its side, and the buttocks may be supported during defecation by the pressure of a hand placed on either side of the anus. It has been recommended that a chamber-pot with a wooden lid, in which there is the smallest practicable opening, should lie used, the lid pressing on the buttocks and so supporting the rectum. Operative measures ai'e hardly ever necessary for prolapse in childhood. In some cases, how- ever, where it has persistently recurred, the laxity of mucous membrane which predisposes to recurrence has been treated by tlie actual cautery ; this is drawn in three or four vertical