387 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF they were ovarian tumours, and in one case the fundus of the gall-bladder was discovered in a femoral hernial sac. Except in those cases where the obstruction is in the cystic duct, the contents are probably in all cases at first bile with a small percentage of mucus, but later the bile becomes absorbed, and only mucus is pre- sent unless acute inflammation supervenes, when muco-piis will 1)6 formed. A distended gall-bladder is to l.te made out as a pear-shaped body passing downward and for- ward from the ninth costal cartilage towards the middle line just below the mnbilicus and moving with respiration. Where there has been little local peritonitis it will be felt quite distinctly as a smooth, rounded, and tense tumour, the lower extremity freely movable from side to side, but becoming more fixed and less defined as the liver is reached. In such a case in a thin patient the mass can usually also be seen to move up and down with expiration and inspiration, but if there has been local inflammation this will not be so, and the tumour will be found much less defined and probaltly more fixed. If the gall- bladder is inflamed there will also be a greater or less degree of tenderness, whereas in simple enlargement the mass will be painless on manipulation. Partly on account of its tenseness, but mainly by reason of its mobility, fluctuation cannot usually be obtained, while absence of dulness on percussion is not uncommon from the presence of coils of intestine overlying the tumour. In some cases I have found it easier to be sure of the presence of a distended gall-bladder by making the patient assume the genu-pectoral position, when it can be readily felt lying on the flat hand placed on the right side of the abdomen. The detection of variations in size from time to time is of great importance, as it practically invariably denotes that the cause of the obstruc- tion is simple, whereas in malignant disease once distension has occurred it persists. Jaundice may or may not be present along with the palpable gall-bladder, according to the site of the obstruction, but when present it is a grave sign by reason of the consequent inter- ference with nutrition, and from the fact that the two conditions are more usually associated with malignant disease than with cholelithiasis. Pain is not commonl}' marked after tlie onset; but the beginning of the condition, when due to biliary calculi, is usually ushered in by an attack of gall-stone colic, while when arising from malignant disease there is for the most part no severe pain. The commonest error in diagnosis is to assume that a distended gall - bladder is a floating- kidney, or a renal or supi'a-renal tumour, and the mistake is moi'e readily made than might be expected. With cai-e, however, this can usually be easily enough avoided. Where the obsti-uc- tion is in the common duct there should be no ditticulty, since the presence of jaundice will readily localise the site of the disease. When the obstruction is in the cystic duct the case is not so easy, but the fact that the tumoTir is continuous above with the liver, that its lower extremity only is movable, and its range of movement small, that it is pear-shaped and not kidney-shaped, that though movable from side to side it cannot be displaced downwards at all f)ther than by the patient taking a deep inspira- tion, and that when left alone it does not tend to fall towai'ds the lumbar region, should render the diagnosis clear. Shoulcl there have been attacks of severe pain at any time the diff'erent characters of renal and gall-bladder pain, both as regards site of origin and distribution, will help to define the case. In case of difficulty, which will occur mostly in very stout persons, or in those who are unable to relax their alxlominal muscles, examination with the patient under an aufesthetic may be necessary. Only rarelj' will it be necessary to apply Ziemssen's test, which consists in dis- tending the colon with gas, and so displacing a kidney tumour into the loin, or a distended gall - bladder toward the liver at the junction of the right hypochondrium with the epi- gastrium. Where the kidney or supra-renal tumour has become adherent to the colon this test if relied on may give a false impression, as the mass may be raised very much into the position usually assumed by a distended gall-bladder. Primary malignant disease of the liver in its early stages may closely simulate distension of the gall-bladder in its physical charactei's, but tlie greater irregularity of the surface, the history of the illness, the rapid loss of weight and strength before the formation of a per- ceptible tumour, and the subsequent onset of jaundice, will assist an accurate diagnosis. Hydatid disease is more likely to give rise to difficulty, but it is not so well defined, is not pear-shaped, and is as a rule painless through- out its history, while generally fluctuation or the characteristic thrill can be detected. Tumours of the intestine and of the pylorus should be kept in mind when examining a case of suspected gall-bladder tmuour, but the asso- ciated symptoms will usually enable one to make the diagnosis. In this connection it should be remembered, however, that dilatation of the stomach is veiy frequently a result of the pylorus becoming adherent to the cystic duct in cholelithiasis. The possibility of the tumour being a Riedel's lobe should be remembered, but when this abnormal projection is present it is usuallj' farther to the right, its shape diff"ers from that of a gall-bladder, being broadest at its upper extremity and tapering oft' downwards, while it