470 GLAUCOMA may, under predisposing conditions, induce or aggravate glaucoma. It has, however, the power of contracting the ciliary blood-vessels and diminishing the sensibility of the ciliary nerves—effects which tend to lower the intra- ocular pressure. It is often useful, therefore, to combine cocaine with eserine or pilocarpine in such proportions that, while the cocaine helps to subdue the vascular congestion, the myotic keeps the pupil contracted. Morphine given subcutaneously, or by the mouth, will sometimes rapidly cut short an acute attack, and is useful in many cases. It eases pain, promotes sleep and contraction of the pupil, lowers the blood-pressure, and probably diminishes for a time the secretion from the ciliary processes. Antipyrin and some other drugs of the same class are useful in the same way; they can be repeated with more freedom than morphine, but have a less positive influence over the tension of the eye. Sleep, even though of very short duration, and occurring without the aid of any drug, often dispels the mild premonitory attacks by which primary glaucoma is ushered in. During sleep the pressure in the cerebral vessels falls and the pupil contracts. Warmth, food, and rest relieve, just as cold, hunger, and fatigue induce these early and slight attacks. Aperients are often needed, and sometimes have a well-marked effect in lessening the fulness of the cerebral vessels and the pressure in the eye. The habit of straining at stool should be expressly forbidden; it congests the head and tends to aggi'avate the glaucomatous condition. Ice applied over the closed lids, in the foi-m of ice compresses or in a thin rubber balloon, is sometimes useful in conjunction with other measures in presence of acute congestion. By a judicious combination of these palliative measures, especially by contracting the pupil, relieving pain, and inducing sleep, we can frequently, especially in early acute cases, obtain great improvement for a time, and thereby postpone the time at which an opera- tion is imperative; we can then operate under more favourable conditions ; but the temporary benefit obtained in this way is likely to do more harm than good if it leads to undue delay of operative treatment. Operative Treatment.—The object with which we operate is to obtain a permanent and sufficient outlet for the intra-ocular fluid. The most trust- worthy operation in the large majority of cases is iridectomy. The improvement of vision ob- tainable by iridectomy varies with the type of the disease : it is greatest in the acute form, smallest in the chronic. An acute attack may in the course of a few days reduce vision from its normal condition to a bare perception of light; in such a case an iridectomy promptly performed may restore it nearly, if not quite, to its former condition. A chronic glaucoma, on the other hand, may advance slowly and insidiously for a year or more, excavating the disc and contracting the visual fluid, but causing little change in the acuteness of central vision as indicated by test types. An iridectomy in such a case may enlarge the visual field a little; it may arrest the progress of the malady; it may preserve the vision which still remains but cannot greatly improve it. The urgency for operation varies, of course, with the acuteness of the disease. In acute glaucoma, unless im- provement is rapidly obtained by the measures already discussed, iridectomy should be per- formed without delay. The prostration of the patient, though severe, is no reason for delay, for an iridectomy is the surest means of giving ease and sleep as well as of saving the eyesight. If light-perception be already completely lost we cannot hope for restoration of good vision, but if it has not been lost many days, it is still right to operate at once, for there is still the chance of recovering some amount of vision. In subacute glaucoma also it is important to operate early, for each recurrence of the acute symptoms is likely to render a perfect operation more difficult of attainment, and a perfect re- covery of vision less probable. In such cases it is best to cut short the acuter symptoms if possible by palliative treatment and to operate during a quiescent period. In chronic non-con- gestive glaucoma the benefit obtainable by iri- dectomy is less obvious and less certain ; positive improvement of vision is seldom to be hoped for; the object of the operation is to prevent further loss. Even this is not always achieved. The operation sometimes fails to arrest the course of the disease, and occasionally accelerates it. When repeated examinations of the eye at intervals of a week or two, or longer, have shown that the visual field continues to con- tract, and that the tension remains in excess, in spite of a careful trial of myotics, then it is usually our duty to advise operation. It is the only means by which the eye can be saved from certain blindness, but is not a certain means, and this should be carefully explained to the patient, or in some cases to his friends, before it is undertaken. If both eyes are affected, but both still retain some sight, the worse should be operated on first. The result may decide the treatment of the other. Some surgeons advise their patients, especially if there be already great contraction of the field, to accept the gradual approach of blindness rather than the risk of operation, and in some cases, where the probable duration of life is short, this is certainly the right course, but as a general rule our duty is to advise operation so long as the eye retains sight worth saving. Cases of definite arrest of chronic glaucoma, with reten- tion of useful vision over many years, are known to all experienced operators. The benefit ob-