267 FIBROID Fibroid. Srr Curettage, Uterine (Uses, H'j^morrhage from Uterine Fibroids); Elec- tricity (Galvanism, Gynecology, Electrolysis of Fibroids); Heart, Myocardium and Endo- cardium (Hi^ecial Pathology, Affections of Myo- cardium, Fibroid Disease); Labour, Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Uterine Fihroids); Lungs, Pulmonary Fibrosis (Fibroid Phthisis); Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Differential, Uterine Fibroids) ; Skin, Tuberculosis of (Lupus, Fibroid); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF (Fibrosis); Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours OF (Fibroids or Fibro-niyomata). Fibroma.. See Bone, Diseases of {Taiiinurs, Fi/iroma) ; Brain, Tumours of (Morbid Ariatomy, Fibromata.); Neck, Region OF (Solid Tumours, Fibromata); Orbit, Diseases OF (Solid Tumours, Fibromata) ; Ovaries, Diseases op (Fibroma); Peritoneum, Tumours 'OF (Innocent, Fibromata). Fibromatosis. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of (IJy/icrtrophy. Diffuse Fibromatosis). Fibro-myoma. &e Fibroid; Uterus, Non-Malignant Tumours of. Fibrosis. — Arterio-capillary fibroid de- geiKTai-ion. See Arteries, Diseases of (Ar- teriosclerosis) Fibula. See Ankle-Joint, Region of, Injuhucs (Pott's Fracture); Deformities (Boiv- Legs, Curved Fibula) ; Fractures (Bones of Leg, Fibula); Knee-Joint, Injuries of (Fracture of Upper End of Fibida, Sejmration of Epiphysis). FiCUS.—The dried receptacles of the urti- ■caceous plant, Ficns carica ; figs are used, some- times in combination with stewed rhubarb, as a mild purgative in chronic constipation ; they are used in making the oflicial preparation Confectio Sennas FicUS Ung^uium.—A disease of the nails in wliich there is recession of the skin at the root of the nail with exposure of the root. See Nails, Affections of. Fidgets.—Marked recklessness and irrita- bility, due to fatigue, dyspepsia, rheumatism, •etc.; dysphoria.; Field of Vision. See Vision, Field of. Fievre de Croissance. See Bone, Diseases oi' ((irowth-Fever, Osteomyelitis). Fifth Nerve, Affections of. Ana'I'omical ...... 267 Paralysis of— Motor Fibres 268 Sensory Fibres. . . . .269 Trophic influences . . . .270 Diagnosis ...... 270 Treatment . . . . . .271 Affections of Taste . . . .271 Spasm of Muscles of Mastication . .272 See also Brain, Physiology op (Cranial Nerves, Fifth) ; Brain, Tumours op (Localising Symptoms, Cranial Nerves); Brain, Cere- bellum, Affections of (Tumours, Symptoms, Cranial Nerves); Cornea (Ulceixitive Keratitis, Causes, Fifth Nerve Paralysis); Nerves, Neuralgia (Trigeminal); Tabes Dorsalis (Symptoms, Affections of Cranial Nerves). The central connections of the fifth nerve are referred to vol. i. p. 469. But it is necessary to describe briefly the course and functions of the three bi-anches arising from the Gasscrian ganglion. The nerve contains motor and sensory fibres, and as the nuclei and the roots are distinct, lesions may be limited to sensory or motor nuclei, roots, or divisions, and may if sensory be limited to a part only of these fibres. Anatomy (see Diagram on p. 269).—The sen- sory and larger root passes into the Gasserian ganglion which is formed on it, and which lies in the cavum Meckelii on the summit of the petrous part of the temporal bone; the smaller root which contains all the motor fibres passes downwards from the inner side of the large sensory root, and runs outwards below the ganglion to join the lowest of the three branches into which the larger root divides upon leaving the ganglion. The first or 02}hthalmic brancit is the highest of the three, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure in close relationship to the third and fourth nerves, and supplies branches to the dura mater, the eyeball and lachrymal gland, the mucous membrane of the nose and eyelids; to the skin of the nose, upper eyelid, the forehead and the upper part of the scalp, besides having many communications with the third and fourth nerves. The second or supjerior maxillary brancii passes through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheno-maxillary fissure, and reaches the face by the infraorbital foi'amen. Its branches pass to the upper lip, lower eyelid, and side of the nose, cheek, and arterior part of the temple; the teeth in the upper jaw ; the mucous mem- brane of the nose, of the upper part of the pharynx, of the antrum of Highmore, and the posterior ethmoidal cells; the soft palate, tonsils, and uvula ; and with Meckel's ganglion supplies the glands and mucous structures in the roof of the mouth. The third or inferior juaxillary brancli is the lai'gcst of the three, and is made up of a large sensory division from the Gasserian ganglion, together with the small motor root which is distinct from the ganglion. The two join after passing through the foramen ovale. The nerve