382 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF The symptom which specially characterises infective cholangitis is the occurrence of ague- like seizures, occurring at irregular intervals, and associated with remittent jaundice. The icterus in the interval between the attacks rarely completely disappears, though it may diminish so much as to be evident only on careful examination of the conjunctivse in good light. In a typical case there will be a more or less definite history of attacks of gall-stone colic, extending over, it may be, many years, and often without any marked degree of jaiuidice. Then comes a more severe attack, lasting longer, and followed by definite jaundice, probably de- noting that the calculus has passed from the cystic into the common duct. After a short interval, during M'hich the jaundice may have quite cleared, this is followed by another chole- lithic seizure, accompanied by a rigor and all the symptoms of an attack of ague. Following on this there is jaundice which persists, though less in degree. This sequence of events recurs at irregular intervals, but in the majority of cases tends to return gradually more frequently, while the attacks become more severe. Even in the milder cases the strength of the patient progressively declines, and in the graver cases he may lose weight as quickly as if he were suffering from malignant disease of the stomach. As a rule, this condition is not recovered from spontaneously, but occasionally the stone passes or ulcerates its way into the duodenum, and the patient gets well. It is, however, much more common for the course to be downward, the patient either succumbing to the i-epeated attacks of pain and poisoning, or to some complication of the disease, such as suppurative hepatitis, perforation of the ducts and peritonitis, endo- carditis, or some pulmonary inflammation. The diagnosis of this condition will not usually give much difficulty, at least in this country where ague is rare. The history of the cholelithic colic extending over some time, the pain specially localised in the neighbourhood of the gall- bladder and ducts, and the tenderness most marked midway between the xiphoid and the umbilicus, together with the progressive de- terioration of health and the remittent character of the icterus, all help one to an accurate opinion. It is not common to find the gall-bladder dis- tended, as it has usually become thickened from previous chronic inflammation, nor is it the rule for the liver to be enlarged, though if the sup- purative condition extend into the finer ducts, or if the obstruction to the flow of bile is more or less complete, there will soon be some degree of hepatic enlargement. From the beginning, however, tenderness in the right hypochondrium and epigastrium is present. Treatment should not be put off when once the diagnosis is at all established, as in the great majority of cases palliative treatment is of no avail, and valuable time will be lost since the patient will progressively lose strength. If possible the cause should be removed by choledochotomy, but should this prove im- possible, or the condition of the patient be such as to render it undesirable, the ducts should be drained and the cause removed by a further ojjeration. There can, however, be no doubt in the minds of those who have observed many cases that it is better to anticipate the complication, and as soon as medical measures, after a fair trial, have failed, to remove the gall-stones by surgical means. Sup'pu7-ative cholangitis, though in the great majority of cases caused by the presence of gall- stones, occurs also in association with cancer of the ducts, hydatid disease of the liver, and typhoid fever, and a number of cases have recently been reported in which the condition seems to have taken origin from the presence of ascarides in the common duct. Associated with the causation in some obstruc- tion in the ducts there comes dilatation to a greater or less degree of the lesser ducts in the livei', which also become very much inflamed. The whole liver enlarges rapidly, and may assume enormous proportions. Post-mortem the liver is large, and the ducts dilated and containing pus, while distributed through the liver there are usually found small abscesses of irregular shape. Symptoms.—In the greater number of cases there will be a well-marked history of gall-stone colic, extending over a more or less lengthened period before the onset of acute symptoms, and it may be that there has been infective cholangitis; but where the disease is due to cancer, hydatid disease, typhoid, or any of the less common causes, the onset of the suppuration in the bile channels may be preceded by no local hepatic symptoms. From whatever cause arising, the onset of suppuration is usually announced by a rise in temperature, with or without rigors or sweating, and this is followed by hectic temperatures, with rigors and profuse respiration. Unless the attack has begun with a gall-stone colic, there may not be much pain at the beginning, but it is rare for some pain not to be present in the later stages. As with pain, so with tenderness ; at first there may be little or none, but when the inflammation extends to the peritoneal covering of the liver the right hypo- chondrium becomes progressively more painful to the touch. Jaundice is present from the onset, and may become intense, but death as a rule takes place before this occurs. The Hver enlarges uniformly, and may so increase in bulk that the lower margin descends below the umbilicus. The gall-bladder may enlarge, but as a rule it has become thickened and shrunken before the onset of the acute symptoms.