FILAKIASIS 287 130-140 //. respectively. The female measures 40-56-70 mm. l)y 0-420-0-440 nim. The tail is blunt and rounded; the vulva is near the mouth. The eggs measure 52-58 by 24-33 fx, and contain an embryo. The development is unknown. Fertilisation doubtless takes place in the connective tissue of the host. The female lives two to three days in serum, under which conditions some eggs are seen to hatch, the free embryos measuring 220-230 by 9-11 /x. The embryos are killed by drying, and live but a short time in water. Inoculation of a horse with such embryos gave no result. Railliet and Moussu think that the female expels the ■embryos at the time when she produces the hemorrhages, the embryos being taken up by some insect or crustacean. Kailliet believes that the worms penetrate into the deeper tissues during cold weather. Geographical Distribution. — F. hmnor- rhagica occurs in Asia and Eastern and Southern Europe. It would seem as if the affection ■caused by the worm has been known a long- time in China. Sibald says it is common in Tartary. Spinola considers it a disease of the Steppes, and Leblanc observed it in Russian horses. In France it has only been known since horses have been imported from Bohemia, and it has been noted that the disease disappears in these animals after a sojourn of three or four years in France. Bernard and Liautard claim that they have seen the disease in Spanish horses in Algeria. Pathogenetic Effects.—The disease is only noticeable in spring and summer, and is marked by the appearance of hemispherical protuber- ances about the size of a nut beneath the skin. These protuberances burst within one or two hours after they are formed, and allow blood to escape, after which they usually subside and appear again in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours at another place a few centimetres ■distant. Suppuration is rare. The donkey in which Railliet and Moussu found these parasites had come from Ijohemia, and had to be killed in consequence of its developing paralysis of the lower portions of the body. At the post- mortem examination the tracks made by the worm coTild bo seen in the donkey's cord. XVIII. Filnria immitis, Leidy, 1856. Syn. : canis cordis, Leidy, 1850; F. 2^opiUosa, Jirematica canis domestici, Gruby and Delafond, 1852.—This parasite is found in the dog, in which host it was first seen by Panthot in 1679, and afterwards by Peyronnie (1778), and many others since. It has also been found in the fox (Sauzade), the wolf by Janson (1892) in Japan, and in man (?) by Bowlby. The adult worm is found chiefly in the right heart of the <log. Thousands of embrj'os are given off by the female and circulate in the blood. The embryos exhibit to a certain extent the periodicity observed Ijy Manson in the case of F. Bancrofti embryos, the parasites being most numerous in the blood at night. Manson found that the embryos accumulate in the large vessels of the abdomen and thorax during the daytime. Both Gi-assi and Sonsino observed nematodes in the intestine and body-cavity of dog-fleas, which they thought were embryos derived either from Filaria immitis or Spiroptera sanguinolejita. It was subsequently determined that the latter parasite does not give off hfematozoal larvte, whilst Grassi (1888) con- clusively proved that neither Pidex serraticeps, lla'inato'pi'rms, nor ticks {Rhipicephahis sicvlus, Koch) served as hosts for the embryos of immitis. Sonsino was led astray, Grassi claimed, by the coincidence that F. recondita, (Grassi) was present in the dogs he examined, and he took the embryos of the latter for those of F. immitis. Consequently the evolution of /'". immitis remains to be determined. Grassi thinks the intermediary host may be a crustacean or mollusc. Morphology.—F. immitis is a filiform, whitish worm, tapering at the extremities, especially at the tail, and rounded anteriorly. The mouth is terminal, small, and simple, being surrounded by six small, indistinct j^apillse. Anus near end of tail. Male worm (.see Plate) 12-18 cm. long by 0-7-0-9 mm. wide, with spirally wound tail bearing two small lateral ridges supported liy papillfe, four of which appear larger, whilst three of them are pre- and one post-anal. According to Schneider there are eleven papilho, of which six are post-anal. Two spicules of un- equal length. The female {see Plate) is 25-30 cm. long by 1-1-3 mm. wide. The tail is short and blunt, the vulva is near the origin of the intestine, and is situated at a distance of about 7 mm. from the mouth. The eggs hatch in the uterus, liberating embryos about 285-295 // long by 5 /x wide, their anterior extremity being- somewhat tapered, whilst posteriorly the body tapers oft" into a long and delicate tail. (Railliet figures the male, female, embryos, and the posterior extremity of the male.) Geographical Distribution.—The parasite is very common in China, where almost all the dogs are affected (Somerville), whilst over 50 per cent of the dogs in Japan harbour the worm. It is also frequent in Italy, especially in marshy districts about Pisa and Milan. It is also found in England, France, Denmark, Germany, Australia, Fiji, the United States, and Brazil. Pathogenetic Effects. — Dogs are most affected in the period from April to August. House dogs rarely exhibit the worm, it being most common in hunting-dogs, or such as roam about the country. Though usually situated in the right heart, the worm may be foinid in various parts of the venous and arterial sj'stem, in the thoracic cavity, bronchi, oesophagus,