268 FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF divides into two branches, of which the smaller anterior division contains the motor fibres which go to supply the masticatory muscles, and also the buccal laranch which is sensory, and which supplies the outer and inner aspects of the cheek as far forward as the angle of the mouth. The larger posterior division is mainly sensory, and supplies part of the skin on the side of the head and the region of the ear, including the external auditory meatus, the lower lip and lower part of the face, the greater part of the tongue and the lower teeth and gums, part of the mucous membrane of the mouth, the salivary glands, the articulation of the lower jaw, part of the dura mater and skull, and the lining membrane of the mastoid cells. Motor fibres also pass in this division to the mylohyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, the tensor palati, and tensor tympani muscles. As already indicated, the sensory fibres of the three branches of the trigeminus have a defined field of action, but also a wide area of skin, which may be supplied by one branch, or possibly several branches. The region of the ear described as being supplied by the third branch may be mainly supplied by cervical nerves, and Zander has definitely proved that in the middle line of the face the skin is supplied from the nerves of both sides. The course of the taste fibres will be referred to later. Physiology.—The physiology of the fifth nerve has already been indicated in the preced- ing paragraphs. The motor fibres supply the muscles of mas- tication, the mylohyoid, the posterior belly of the digastric, and almost certainly the tensor palati and the tensor tympani muscles. The sensory fibres supply the skin of the face, the eyeball, and eyelids, the nose, the forehead, part of the scalp, and the region of the ear. The mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, and gums, and the teeth in both jaws are also in- cluded in the domain of this nerve. The trophic functions of the nerve are re- ferred to in some detail imder " Paralysis of Sensory Fibres," and it is only necessary to state here that while the healthy nutrition of skin, etc., depends on the integrity of the sensory and motor nerve-fibres, the cornea ulcerates and trophic ulcers occur in skin and mucous mem- brane as the result of an irritative and not a destructive lesion. The teeth certainly tend to loosen and decay when their nerve-supply is cut off, and therefore the fifth nerve is essential for their healthy existence ; so that a destructive lesion of the superior maxillary or inferior dental nerves would, as far as they are con- cerned, be followed by quite as serious conse- quences as an irritative. The tongue is supplied with common sen- sibility by the fifth nerve, while taste is supplied to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue by fibres reaching the lingual nerve by the chorda tympani and to the posterior one-third by the glosso-pharyngeal. It should be noted, however, that clinical evidence strongly supports the belief that all these taste fibres eventually enter the pons by the sensory root of the fifth nerve. The nasal mucous membrane, the lachrymal apparatus, and the glandular structures in nose and mouth, are supplied by the fifth, therefore in lesions of the nerve the eyes may suffer from lack of tears, while smell and taste may be con- siderably interfered with, although the olfactory and gustatory nerve-fibres are unaffected. Paralysis of the Nerve or its Branches Etiology.—Paralysis of the fifth may be of central origin. Hsemorrhage, softening, and tumours of various kinds may damage the cortical centres, with regard to which we can say that we can at present locate the motor only, the fibres between cortex and nuclei, the nuclei, the ascending root; and the motor nuclei may be affected in chronic bulbar paralysis. If the lesion is confined to the pons, then the sensory and motor fibres of the nerve may be involved ; while in diseases of the cord, in which the nerve may be affected, such as locomotor ataxia and syringomyelia, the sensory fibres alone suffer. The nerve as a whole may be involved by meningeal inflammation, by tuberculous, syphi- litic, or other tumours, and by caries of the temporal bone. A primary neuritis is seldom met with affect- ing this nerve, and it has only occurred in a few isolated cases, which have been described as of rheumatic or gouty origin. The nerve very rarely suffers in alcoholic or other form of peripheral neuritis. But neuritis of the fifth may be secondary to many conditions, injuries, tumours, local inflammation, and the like, and may affect the nerve as a whole, or one or other of its branches. While all the three branches may suffer from meningeal inflammation, tumours, or injuries in the middle fossa, and perhaps specially fracture of the base of the skull, the first branch is liable to damage from intraorbital tumours and so forth, and may be involved by an aneurysm springing from the internal carotid in the neigh- bourhood of the nerve, or from tumours of the pituitary body. All the branches may be injured by cuts or superficial lesions. Clinical Features. — Paralysis of Motor Fibres.—If there is unilateral paralysis then mastication is weak on the affected side, and when the fingers are placed over the muscles, and the attempt is made to close the jaws, then the weak, flabby temporal and masseter muscles contrast sharply with the firmly-con- tracted muscles on the healthy side. The pterygoid muscles act on one side alone, and when the mouth is opened the lower jaw is