153 EPIDEMIOLOGY percentage of deaths to cases in thirteen four- weekly periods, based on the Hamburg returns for the sixteen years 1879-94. The deaths in one period are credited to the cases in the pre- ceding period :— Four- JVcckly Pcriodn I. 2. 3. 4. 0. C. 7. Cases . . 4017 35iis; 3525 3564 68SS 10,7-'l 9284 Deaths . . Itia 13t) 180 205 444 50S 256 Percentages . 4-1 3-!) 5-1 7-2 6-4 47 2-S S. S. 10. 11. 12. 13. Cases . . 41)1)5 2382 2637 4004 5638 5359 Deaths . . 166 101 156 205 213 167 Peieeiitages . 3-5 4-2 5-S) S'O 3-8 3-1 The case-mortality will be seen to rise in the third period, when the cases are at their mini- nium. A further rise occurs in the fourth period, when the increase in prevalence has begun, but is still insignificant. With the first epidemic hound, in the fifth period, tlie case-mortality begins to fall, and continues falling rapidly as the epidemy attains and passes its fastigium in the sixth and seventh periods. A reverse move- ment then sets in, and the case-mortality rises until the minimum prevalence is reached in the ninth period. As the winter epidemic extension begins in the tenth period, the case-mortality shows a further rise, but no sooner does the disease become widely jjrevalent than the case- mortality again begins to fall. In short, the virulence of tlie disease, measured by the case- mortality, appears to bear throughout pretty much an inverse relation to its dift'usion. Now the question arises, is the increase and decrease of the virulence of the contagium a cause or a consequence of the increase and de- crease of prevalence in the varying phases of an epidemy ? It must be remembered that virulence and spreading-power are not necessarily related, for the case-mortality is often low in rapidly and widely-spreading epidemics. Besides, a diminished case-mortality may mean either an increased killing power of the virus, or an in- creased resistance on the part of those attacked, so that fewer succumb to the disease. Upon the whole, it appears probable that the case- mortality becomes lower as a consequence of the wider diffusion of the disease. The question how this occurs cannot be fully discussed here. There is a tendency at the present day to refer the evolution and involution of epidemics exclusively to changes in the virulence of the contagium. It is assumed that at the outset of an epidemy only the more susceptible arc attacked, and that in passing through these the virus gains in intensity and sprcading-power. The turn of the less susceptible then comes, in passing through whom the virus becomes attenuated. The virulence of a germ is un- doubtedly exalted or attenuated according as it is cultivated in susceptible or resistant bodies, but it is not so obvious why the virus at the early stage of an epidemy, when it is by no means deficient in potency, should select only the more susceptible for attack. It is more probable that the wide diffusion of the virus in a community increases the resistance of the susceptible, and thus brings about an attenuation of the microbe. The decrease in the virulence of the con- tagium (granting that the decreased case-mor- tality indicates a decreased virulence) may be brought about in other ways than by merely passing through more resistant subjects. When the contagium, for example, is widely diffused, it is reasonable to suppose that the infection is, in many cases, propagated by fomites. The virus, subjected for a varying time to the in- fluence of light and air, will become attenuated, and thus give rise to a milder type of the disease. The course of an epidemy of one of the in- fectious diseases is much more uncertain and irregular than that of a contagious disease. Its outbreak, extent, fluctuations, and duration are largely dependent on circumstances that are variable and contingent, such as the sanitary state of a town into which the infection is intro- duced, the water-supply, and such like. An accidental contamination of milk or water by the virus of cholera, scarlet fever, or enteric fever often gives rise to a sudden outburst, which rapidly subsides if the contamination is not renewed. No distinct periods of rise, fas- tigium, and decline are to be looked for in explosions of this kind. They present the char- acters of a wholesale poisoning rather than those of an epidemy. Further, when an infectious disease assumes an epidemic character, its course may be modified or arrested at any stage by a change in the weather unfavourable to the sapro- phytic growth of the virus, as in the case of yellow fever, or from the virus being deprived of its vehicle of dift'usion, as when, during an outbi'eak of cholera, an infected water-supply is closed. Another circumstance which contributes to make the evolution of epidemies of infectious diseases irregular is the great variability in the virulence of their contagia. A cholera outbreak may run the whole or a part of its course as a severe diarrhoea. Enteric fever may present itself under the guise of a febrile gastro-intestinal catarrh. Plague in the course of a single epidemy may assume different forms with varying diffusive powers. All these circumstances cause the greatest differences in the course of an epidemy of an infectious disease at a particular time and in a given locality. But if we take tlie course of an outbreak in a whole country for a limited period, or in a given locality, over a number of years, these irregularities disappear, and the epidemic evolution of an infectious disease will be found, on the large scale and in the long run, to be governed by the conditions which promote or hinder the saprophytic growth of the contagium.