EYEBALL, INJURIES OF 214 Corneal wounds whicli reach a short distance into the sclerotic are quite as liable to produce sympathetic disease as wounds confined to the sclerotic, but detachment of the retina and other changes in the eye are not so apt to occur, and good results are sometimes obtained by careful treatment. Snellen detaches the conjunctiva freely at each lip of the wound, scrapes the ejjithelium from the adjacent parts of the cornea, and then by sutures endeavours to render the entire wound subconjunctival. All lost, shrunken, and tender eyes should be excised; Fig. 4 is an example of a mere stump of an eye which caused sympathetic disease. Enucleation of the eyeball, also called excision and extirpation, should always, when possible, be done under a general aniesthetic, and is per- formed in the following manner :— The eyelids are kept apart by a spring speculum, the conjunctiva is seized with fixation forceps quite close to the upper edge of the cornea and freely separated with curved, blunt-pointed scissors as far back as the insertion of the rectus tendon. The rest of the conjunctiva all round the cornea is then dealt with in a similar manner. A squint hook is inserted under the tendon of the superior rectus muscle, which is then divided with the scissors as close to the sclerotic as possible; the tendons of the internal inferior and external recti are divided in the same way. The speculum having been luiscrewed, but still in position, is pressed back firmly into the orbit, when the eye will spring forward, and is lightly held between the forefinger and thumb of the left hand. A strong, curved, blunt - pointed pair of scissors, with the blades closed and their concavity looking forward, are then pushed from the temporal side of the eye back into the orbit till the optic nerve is felt, which is then divided by one snip. The tendons of the superior and inferior oblique muscle are now divided and the eyeball is removed. The cavity is well flushed with perchloride lotion, and when the bleeding has stopped the edges of the conjunctiva may be brought together by two or three sutures, but these are often dispensed with. I much prefer the plan used more than forty years ago by Bowman and Critchett, of running a single thread out and in along the margins of the conjunctival gap and drawing together but not tying the ends. On the third day the thread is easily withdrawn by pulling on one end. The eyelids are inverted by a thick pad of lint placed on their outer surface, which is kept in position by a roller bandage. An artificial eye may be woi'n in a month after the operation; it is a thin shell of glass made to resemble as closely as possible the front part of the sound eye. Snellen has recently had glass eyes made by Messrs. Mtiller of Wiesbaden ^ in the shape of hollow 1 Can be obtained from Krohne and Sesemann, 37 Duke Street, Manchester Square, London, W. globes, more or less flattened at the posterior pole; they are said to be mOre comfortable on account of the rounded edge, and also look better, as they do not have the sunken appear- ance so often noticeable with the old form. The old form is still the most suitable when worn over a shrunken globe, or where eviscera- tion or Mules' operation of the artificial vitreous has been done in place of enucleation. Injuries by Penetration, with Retention OF A Foreign Body in the Eye.—Small particles of iron or copper, splinters of glass, porcelain, or wood, small shot, and other small, hard bodies striking the eye with great velocity, penetrate the cornea or sclerotic, and come to rest in any part of the eye, giving rise to a very serious condition. The wound of entrance being small and the fragment being as a rule aseptic, the gravity of the case depends upon the presence of the foreign body, and generally speaking the eye is doomed from repeated attacks of inflammation unless we succeed in removing this. The evil effects of the foreign body are due to the mechanical and chemical irritation which it sets up, and vary in intensity with its material size and position in the eye. Large, irregular, sharp-angled bodies do more harm than small, smooth ones; copper is much more obnoxious than iron or steel, and lead is certainly better tolerated than either of the latter. Foreign bodies in the aqueous chambers are much less dangerous and more easy of removal than those in the vitreous chamber, and we shall consider the two classes of cases separately. Foreign bodies in the aqueous chambers almost invariably gain entrance by perforating the cornea; in the few exceptions, usually in gun- shot accidents and explosions, the foreign body goes through the lid and outer part of the sclerotic, and reaches the lens or iris or anterior chamber from behind. The corneal wound being very small and rapidly produced there is no prolapse of the iris, the aqueous is often completely retained, and even if it escapes and the anterior chamber is abolished, it is quickly restored. By careful focal illumination the foreign body can be detected in the iris, lens, or more rarely, free in the anterior chamber, but in the latter case, if it be very small it can be quite hidden in the sulcus between the base of the iris and the opaque limbus, or if it lies behind the iris in the posterior aqueous chamber, its presence may only be suspected by a bulging of the iris, with or without a tear in that structure. Blood may be present in small quantity, either as a layer on the floor of the anterior chamber or more frequently as a clot on the anterior surface of the iris. The pain is often very slight, and persists only for a very brief time. The vision at first is but slightly if at all diminished unless the lens has been wounded. Treatment.—The removal of a foreign body