GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DLSEASES OF 377 rectus is that which I prefer, hnt some surgeons habitually use an incision through the right semilunar line, while Kochcr has advised, and many surgeons employ, an oblique incision parallel to the right costal margin. If, on opening the abdomen, the gall-bladder be foiuid distended, it should be aspirated, and then opened, after the parts have been isolated by sterilised gauze. A pair of forceps or a small scoop should then be introduced, and any gall- stones present in the gall-bladder removed. After the gall-bladder has been cleared, the fingers are passed along the outside of the ducts (any adhesions ■which may have been present having previously been broken down), and the cystic duct is searched for calculi. If any be found they should be manipulated'backward into the gall-bladder and thence removed. Sometimes it is necessary to crush a stone in the duct before it is possible to return it into the gall- bladder ; at other times the calculus is so large or so hard that this manamvre is impossible, and then it becomes necessary to incise the duct in order to remove the concretion. Should this latter course be adopted, the incision in the duct should be carefully stitched up, a continuous catgut suture being used for the mucous mem- brane, and a continuoiis silk sutiu-e for the peritoneal investment. The gall-bladder and cystic duct having thus been cleared, a non-perforated thick walled rubber tube should be inserted into the opening in the gall-liladder, and the edges of the incision in the gall-bladder should be caught up by a purse-string sutiu'c, wliich when tightened ai'ound the tube jirevents any leakage ; the drain is also fi.xed in position by a fine seven-day catgut stitch, which dissolves when the tube is ready to come away. One or tw'o similar sutures fix the gall- bladder to the abdominal aponeurosis. If there has been much cholecj-stitis, drainage shovdd be maintained for a longer period. Even when it is not possible to bring the gall-bladder up to the anterior abdominal wall the tube should be inserted into it, and the purse-string suture applied round the margin of the incision in the gall-bladder, so that when tightened it will draw the edges of the incision closely round tlie tube and prevent any escape of bile into the peritoneal cavity. This plan is, 1 consider, much better than that of stitching up the incision in the gall-bladder, since it is of tlie utmost importance that, if recurrence of cholelithiasis is to be prevented, the catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane should be removed by the employment of free drainage. The results of cholecystotomy in uncomplicated cases has been in my practice less than 1 per cent, and the after-histories of the cases have been most satisfactory and free from recurrence (11). (('>) In certain cases cholecystectomy or com- ]ilete removal of the gall-bladder is advisable, as for instance when the gall-bladder is atrophied and useless, when the cystic duct is ulcerated or strictured, when the gall-bladder is thickened by chronic inflammation, or is the seat of piileg- monous inflanunation, or gangrene, or if there is a suspicion of malignant disease. The ojjera- tion is rendered more easy l)y placing a sand-bag under the region of the liver or by the use of a special table. The mortality is only a little more than that of cholecystotomy, barely 2 per cent (9). (c) When the gall-stones are in the common duct, operation is imperative. Choledochotomi/.—The operation of election is choledochotomy, which is rendered comparatively easy by the position just mentioned and by an upward extension of the incision (10). The duct may be opened and the stone extracted, either by direct incision through the wall of the canal at the site of the calculus, or by incising the second part of the duodenum and stretching the papilla, or slitting up tliat part of the duct which runs in the posterior wall of the duodenum. The duct, or bowel, should then be carefully sutured, and the gall-bladder or duct drained in the manner already described. Separate drainage of the peritoneal cavity may be advisable if the parts have been soiled, but not otherwise. Cholecysfenterostomy.—In a few cases after choledochotomy, especially if there be interstitial pancreatitis, it may be advisable to perform cholecystenterostomy, i.e. to make a direct artificial communication between the gall-bladder and duodenum. When the gall-bladder is dis- tended, this is a very simple matter ; but as a rule, in these cases, the gall-liladder is contracted, and the operation then is one of some difficulty. In my experience the junction has been most expeditiously eftected by the aid of a Murphy liutton orl)y suture over a decalcified bone bobbin. In all cases of cholelithiasis, after recovery from operation, the patient should be instructed to attend to certain details of after-treatment. The bowels should be kept I'egular, preferably hy the use of mild salines, of which probably the natural Carlsbad water is the best. The diet should be so regulated as to obviate the likeli- hood of dyspepsia, and, for this reason, the patient should be advised to avoid over-indulg- ence in sweet or starchy foods, or highly seasoned dishes. A sufficiency of albuminous food should be taken, either in the shape of meat or fish, or of vegetable food-stuffs which contain a large pi'oportion of nitrogen. Alcohol should be avoided except at meals, and then should be well diluted. A sufficient amount of exercise should be taken daily, as thereby the general nutrition will be improved, and the likelihood of fermentative changes taking place in the contents of the stomach and duodenum diminished. Cholecystitis Simple catarrh of the gall-bladder, like that of