463 GLAUCOMA cesses much swollen and sometimes greatly altered in shape by pressure aijainst the lens; and the base of the iris firmly pressed against the perijihcry of the cornea by the forward pressure of the processes. If the eye have been already blind for some months, as a result of acute glaucoma, the base of the iris will be Fig. 2.—Primaiy glaucoma, acute, reci'iil. Ciliary processes swollen and artvanccd iris-base pressed against cornea, but not adherent to it. found firmly adherent to the periphery of the cornea. At a later stage still the ciliary pro- cesses, instead of being enlarged and pressing forwards, will be found atrophied and retracted (see Figs. 1, 2, and 3). Swelling of the ciliary processes through venous congestion is probably in many cases the starting-point of the attack. In others there is probably some initial change in the zonula or hyaloid membrane, in the sub- stance of the vitreous, or in the vitreous fluid itself, which prevents the overflow of this fluid from the vitreous into the aqueous chamber, and thereby leads to overfilling of the vitreous chamber. In other cases, again, it is probable that a forward displacement of the lens arises through loss of tension in the zonula. However it may be brought about, the compression of the filtration angle raises the pressure in the whole eyeball; this impedes the flow of blood througli the choroidal veins and adds to the congestion and swelling of the processes ; and this in turn aggravates the compression of the filtration angle. Acute glaucoma, like strangulated hernia, pre- sents an obstruction of the cir- culation which intensifies itself, and which can only be relieved by removing the injurious pres- sure. In the slow chronic form of primary glaucoma there is little sign of vascular congestion, and there is no sudden or com- plete closure of the filtration angle ; in the early stages the . _ liindrance to the escape of the aqueous fluid is comparatively slight. The predisposition to primary glaucoma appears to depend largely on certain structural changes or peculiarities in the eye which bring the lens into closer relations than usual with the parts around it. The crj'stalline lens, so long as it remains healthy, continues to increase in size throughout the whole of life, whereas the globe is fully grown at the beginning of adult life, if not earlier. Hence, as age advances, the lens encroaches more and more on the space in which it lies, its margin coming into closer rela- tion with the ciliary processes, and its anterior surface appi-oaching the cornea. In some eyes these changes pass the limit of safety ; the ciliaiy processes, having insufficient free space at their disposal, are apt, especially during periods of turgcscence, to press against the iris-base, and thus compress the filtration angle, and the iris being already very near to the cornea, tends, when the pupil is dilated, to block the out- let. In accordance with these natural changes in the eye, the liability to primary glaucoma steadily increases throughout life ; it is extremely slight in childhood and early adult life ; it increases in each decade ; it is manifest chiefly in elderly people ; at sixty-five years of age, for example, the liability to the disease is at least twice as great as at forty-five. The liability of women is greater than that of men in a ratio probably of about six to five, and in women the disease more often occurs in the acute congestive form. Ag;ain, in eyes of small size the relations of the lens are often faulty. The growth of the lens appears to be little influenced by variations in the size of the parts around it, and in eyes in which the cornea and sclera have failed to reach their full development the lens is apt to be relatively too large. This is very obvious in certain cases of microphthalmos. A small eye may usually be recognised during life by small- ness of the cornea. The horizontal diameter of the cornea measures normally from 11 to 12 nun. ; among eyes in which it measures less than 11 mm. we find a higher percentage of glaucoma, and tliose in which it measui'es as little as 10 mm. seem seldom to escape the disease. Pia. 3. Primary t;laucoin:i ; chronic; duration about 12 month: cornea ; ciliary processes atrophied. bas The predisposition to glaucoma is sometimes distinctly hereditary. In one such case observed by the writer both parent and child had excep- tionally small eyes. Certain races—Jewa, Egyptians, negroes—are said to be specially liable to the disease, but on this point more precise evidence is wanting. Among Egyptians the average cornea is said to be smaller than among Europeans, and smaller