EPIDEMIOLOGY 143 may be referred to one or more of the following circumstances :—(a) Variations in the preval- ence and virulence of the contagiurti,, brought about by altered conditions under wliich the micro-organism is grown, or the association of pathogenic microbes with non-pathogenic or- ganisms which exalt or attenuate their virulence. [h) Changes in the circumstances and habits of peoples as regards food, dwellings, occupations, modes of life, and whatever affects the sus- ceptibility to disease, (c) Changes in the facilities for the spread of certain diseases by social and political upheavals and movements of population, [d) The assumption of parasitic characters by niicrol)es formerly purely sapro- phytic. II. MULTIANNUAL FLUCTUATIONS OR NUTA- TIONS.—In following the course of a contagious disease, such as small-pox, measles, whooping- cough, scarlet fever, or diphtheria during a long series of years in a community in which it is constantly more or less present, it will be remarked that it has periods of slowly increas- ing and decreasing mortality, quite distinct from the epidemic explosions recurring at shorter intervals. These long-period fluctua- tions appear on a chart as alternate ebbs and flows, or swells and depressions, on which the short-period outbursts appear as waves. Or rather a diagrammatic representation of the course of one of these diseases through a series of years presents something of tlie appearance of an undulating mountain range, studded with numei'ous abruptly projecting peaks, arising alike from height and hollow—those shooting up from the depressions being often the highest. These inidulations or long - pei'iod swells are frequently spoken of as epidemic cycles, but if carefully examined they are found not to be strictly cyclical, as they are neitiier of equal height nor do they recur at regular intervals. In diagram I, Chart I., showing tlie ratio of deaths from small-pox per 1000 of the deaths from all causes in London from 1700 to 1800, we observe a distinct increase in the mortality during tiie first decennium, the swell attaining a maximum from 1715 to 1720. It then sub- sides slowly and irregularly to 1733. Then follows an ebb up to 1745, when another long swell begins, which seems to end about 1783. Anotiier upward movement is in progress when the epidemic force of the disease was arrested by the introduction of vaccination. In diagram 3, Chart I., representing small-pox in Sweden from 1749 to 1800, it will be seen that there is a marked swell from 1749 to 1773, correspond- ing with that observed in the London chart for the same period. Unfortunately, we do not have the material for deciding how far these swells coincide in ditt'erent countries, but the curves of small-pox in London and Sweden in the second half of the eighteenth century suggest that these swells are not entirely local. In diagrams 1 and "2, Chart II., similar swells and ebbs are to be oljserved in the mortality from measles. The first swell in the London chart seems to have been about its height in 1838. There is a distinct fall from 1846 to 1852, when the ebb is at its lowest. So far as can be gathered from the statistics of the pre- registration period, the increase began in 1834. It thus covered a period of about 18 years. Another more indefinite swell extends from 1853 to somewhere about 1871, forming another period of 18 years. Then follows a steady rise from 1872, which is beginning to subside when the record closes. The very marked rise in the measles mortality in New York (Chart II., diagram 2) coincides with the latter part of the London period. Whooping-cough (diagram 3, Chart II.) shows a very slight rise from 1841 to 1850 ; it then remains pretty much at the same level from 1851 to 1870, after which the fall has been steadily jjrogrcssivc. We are not, however, to conclude that this is a permanent downward movement, for an examination of the charts for Sweden, published by Pamsome {Epidem. Soc. IVaiis. vol. i. N.S.), shows that this disease has what he calls a nutation period (jf al)oiit 50 years. Scarlet fever and diphtheria are eminently mobile diseases. They vary much more in pre- valence, and especially in virulence, fi'om time to time than do diseases of the purely' contagious class. The scarlet fever seen by Sydenliam was so mild tiiat when it proved fatal " the sick died of his doctor." Graves observes that scarlet fever assumed a very benign type in Dublin soon after the year 1804, and continued mild up to 1831. "It then increased in severity, and in 1834 the disease assumed the form of a de- structive epidemic." There would thus seem to have been a period of three or four years during which the pathogenic agent of the disease was slowly gaining in virulence before the epidemy attained its maxinuim intensity. The fluctuations in tlie mortality from this disease from 1859 to 1892 are depicted in diagram 4, Chart II. During the twenty years 1871-90 scarlet fever has been gradually losing ground in London and elsewhere, but tiiose acquainted with its history will hesitate in ascribing this decrease, as is often done, exclusively or mainly, to the influence of isolation hospitals. Diphtheria presents the same variations in prevalence and vindence which we observe in scarlet fever. Its virulence may, indeed, be often observed to increase during the progress of an outbreak, tlic early cases presenting the characters of a siniple sore throat, developing later into the most malignant type of the disease. From this mobility of type, diphtheria appears for a series of years in widespread and fatal epidemics, then subsides, to recur in local outbreaks only at irregular intervals. We have no exact statistics to guide us, but according to Hirsch there was