372 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF The cystic duct normally admits a No. 5, the common duct a No. 7 catheter; but at different parts they both vary iu size, the cystic being- narrowest at its termination, while the common duct shows two dilatations, one just at its begin- ning and another near its termination. At its entrance into the duodenum it is so narrow that it only admits a fine probe. The ducts have each three coats,—serous, muscular, and mucous,—the last being studded with mucus-secreting glands. In the cystic duct the miicous membrane is thrown into folds, which, especially at its termination, act some- what as a valve. The gall-bladder, except where in contact with the liver, has the same three coats, and its mucous membrane also is abundantly supplied with glands which secrete mucus. Its normal capacity is about six drachms, but imder vary- ing pathological conditions its size undergoes great alterations. The gall-bladder gets a free supply of blood from a branch of the hepatic artery—the cystic artery—which in turn sends a branch along the cystic duct to anastomose with an oifset from the gastro-duodenal artery. The veins empty themselves into the portal vein, and the lym- phatics drain into glands which lie in the free border of the lesser omentum. Accompanying the arteries are branches from the coeliac plexus of the sympathetic. The lower surface of the gall-bladder is in relation with the hepatic flexure of the colon, and, toward its neck, with the first part of the duodenum and occasionally the pylorus. The tip of the fundus just touches the anterior ab- dominal wall, and occasionally the right border of the great omentum lies in contact with it. In pathological conditions, however, there may be great alterations in the relations of the parts. Congenital Malformations. — The gall- bladder is sometimes partly bifid, or by a central constriction it may assume an hour- glass shape. Occasionally it and even the larger bile ducts are absent or represented merely by fibrous cords. A malformation of the liver not infrequently met with is of great importance in gall-bladder work. It consists of a tongue-shaped prolonga- tion of the right lobe, which may project below the costal margin for several inches and carrj' the gall-bladder down with it, though it is more common for the cyst to be situated just to the left of the abnormal (Riedel's) lobe. Congenital Obliteration of the Bile Ducts is sufficiently common to merit special attention. The exact cause of this condition has not been definitely determined, but it apparently consists of an inflammatory process affecting the bile ducts during intra-uterine life, tending to be followed by complete obliteration of their lumen and associated with some degree of cirrhosis of the liver. It is probable that the cases which have been reported from time to time under the title "ab- sence of the gall-bladder and bile ducts " should really be relegated to this category, as it is not unusual for some part of the extra-hepatic biliary apparatus to be absent in this disease. Where the patient has lived some time it is usual to find more or less marked biliary cirrhosis, and the liver occasionally, and the spleen usually, are somewhat enlarged. In a few cases there has been reason to sus- pect the presence of congenital syphilis; but in the majority the parents have apparently been in pei'fect health. The male sex suff'ers more frequently than the female, and in several recorded instances several members of a family have been affected by the disease. That the process is a local inflammatory dis turbance is evident from the fact that at birth the patient has usually been of normal weight, and seemed normal in all respects. As a rule the first symptom pointing to any serious condition is the progressive deepening of the jaundice which is either present at birth or soon supervenes. An early symptom in the disease is the occurrence of haemorrhages from various parts—from the umbilicus after separa- tion of the cord, from the nose, stomach, or intestine, or into the subcutaneous tissues. Where the affection has started early in intra- uterine life the fseces will from birth be pale, but if toward the end of the period of gestation, normal meconium will fii'st be extruded, and this will be followed by clay-coloured stools. Unless death results from hsemorrhage, the general nutrition suffers considerably after a time; but, if not carried off' by some inter- current disease, the patient may live on for months before succumbing to the effects of the continued malnutrition. The only condition with which this disease is likely to be confounded is icterus neonatorum, and in the early stages it is impossible to dis- tinguish between them ; but the continuance of the jaundice and the supervention of serious sequelae soon render a diagnosis easy. The prognosis is uniformly bad; even in those cases where there is merely narrowing of the ducts and inspissation of the bile, life has never been prolonged more than eight months. So far no treatment has seemed to do any good; but since the disease is apparently a local inflammation, the duodenum should be rendered as aseptic as possible by the adminis- tration of grey powder, and the bile be kept as thin as possible by giving as much fluid as can comfortably be ingested, in the hope that if the disease has not progressed to obliteration of the ducts the process may stop. Injuries of the Gall-Bladder or Bile Ducts are not common, but several have been reported. The symptoms vary considerably, according to