GOUT 486 colour is exhibited — purpurate of ammonia. This constitutes the well - known mnrexide reaction. When present in the subcutaneous tissue in a diffused form the uratic deposit may not be readily observable to the naked eye, but its presence may be suspected from the associated thickening and contraction of the tissues, and by coincident ulceration. A correct diagnosis may only be determined by a microscopic or chemical examination, the former revealing- characteristic needle-shaped crystals of urate of soda, the latter being readily determined by the murexide test. The Joints.—When a gouty joint is examined in the earlier stages of the disease the articular cartilages show scattered or isolated points, streaks or patches of a "chalk-like" material— urate of soda. A closer examination may reveal the fact that this deposit is not really on the surface of the cartilage, but is situated inter- stitially in its substance, the superficial layer of epithelium being intact. Later this superficial layer is involved, and the articular surface becomes roughened, irregular, and eroded. As the primary deposits take place in the areas where circulation and nutrition are at their lowest level, we accordingly find that it is the central portion of the articular cartilage that shows the earliest manifestations. As the disease progresses the ligamentous structures become the seat of interstitial deposit, and in inveterate cases they may become extensively desti'oyed. Before this has taken place, how- ever, the synovial membranes and their fringe- like processes are involved, the surface of the synovial membrane appearing as if dusted over with powdered plaster of Paris. The rest of the synovial membrane is usually congested, thickened, and thrown into irregular folds. The synovial fluid may be in excessive amount, and may be turbid from the presence of specks of urate. An acid reaction has been observed in one instance. In very rare instances the con- tents of the joints have been found hsemorrhagic or purulent. The ends of the bones frequently become enlarged, and true bony ankylosis occa- sionally occurs. Changes also take place outside the joints, the connective tissues, aponeurosis, and tendon sheaths becoming the seat of a varying amount of uratic infiltration. The bursse in the neighbourhood of a joint may be extensively involved independently of any joint aff'ection. Secondaiy changes are induced in the joint structures by its occurrence. Inflam- matory changes occur in the cartilage leading to proliferation and necrosis, the proliferative changes being most manifest along the borders of the cartilage where the deposits are smaller and the tissues more highly vascularised. As a result we have outgrowths at the margin of the articulation, best seen in the larger joints. Some degree of osteitis also occurs with de- generative changes in the bone and marrow, and a varying degree of uratic infiltration. Wynne, quoted by Duckworth, holds that the hyper- trophic outgrowths (lipping) present in gout must be regarded as true exostosis, and not ecchondroses as in rheumatoid arthritis. The microscopic appearances of the cartilages are fully described by Duckworth, who is of opinion that there is no microscopic appearance of cartilage characteristic of gout. Before leaving the consideration of the joint changes attention may be drawn to an important contribution by Moore on the subject of uratic deposits in joints. Moore {St. Bartholomew's Hospital Ite2')orts, 1888) made an extended series of observations into the condition of the joints, small and large, in over seventy post-mortems. In some of the cases recoi'ded no gouty history had been obtained during life. Two of his con- clusions have a very special bearing on the points under consideration :— {a) It is common to find urate of soda in the joints of those persons whose aortic valves show chronic degenerative changes with calcification, and who therefore belong to the class of patients likely to have had angina pectoris. (5) Urate of soda is present in the joints of a large proportion of those persons over forty years of age who die of cerebral hasmorrhage. The importance of these observations is not perhaps sufiiciently recognised in this country, where they serve to justify a diagnosis of gout in not a few cases where joint changes are entirely latent. But they are of still greater importance from the point of view of the opinions held by various foreign writers on the too frequent diagnosis of gout by British phy- sicians. While admitting that a diagnosis of gout is frequently arrived at on insufficient grounds, these observations prove that it is not advisable always to withhold a diagnosis of gout (and substitute rheumatism) except in cases where there has been a previous acute attack, or where there is distinct clinical evidence of uratic deposits. Visceral Changes in Gout.—The only vis- ceral disease which is intimately related to gout is contracted granular kidney, and the relation- ship is a complicated one. In some cases the renal disease precedes the articular manifesta- tions ; in others it seems to appear as a sequel, and in a few the conditions appear and develop simultaneously. Moore found that chronic intez'stitial nephritis was not invariably accom- panied by deposits in the articular cartilages. Ord and Greenfield found that in a series of cases of gouty affection of the great toe joint, in two-thirds of them there was a definite co- existence of contracted granular kidney, and in the remaining third there was an affection of the kidney closely allied to it. The question is a difficult one, the difficulty being partly due to the fact that whereas a diagnosis of chronic