108 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN process and its derivatives (lower jaw, and Meckel's cartilage with the malleus and incus); 2. From the second, the stapes, the styloid process, the stylohyoid ligament (which may ossify), the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and probably part of the body of that bone ; 3. From the thii-d arch, the greater cornu and the rest of the body of the hyoid; 4. From the fourth, probably the thyroid cartilage of the larynx ; and 5. From the fifth, possibly a part of the thyroid cartilage. The nerves of the arches are : 1. Of the first, the second and third divisions of the fifth; 2. Of the second, the seventh and eighth ; 3. Of the third, the ninth or giosso-pharyn- geal; 4. Of the fourth, the superior laryngeal branch of the tenth nerve or vagus; and 5. Of the fifth, the inferior laryngeal branch of the vagus. The arteries of the branchial arches, consist- ing of five 1 aortic arches on each side, arising from a ventral stem and joining a dorsal one, are transformed into the following permanent arteries:— 1. The first aortic arch disappears, unless the internal maxillary artery represents it, and the ventral stem becomes part of the external carotid, while the dorsal stem becomes part of the internal carotid; 2. The second aortic arch also degenerates, to be indicated possibly by the future lingual artery ; 3. The third arch along with its dorsal stem and that of the second and first arches becomes the internal carotid artery ; 4. The fourth arch on the right side becomes the first and second parts of the subclavian artery and its lower part disappears, while on the left side it forms the permanent aortic arch; 5. The fifth arch on the right side in great part disappears, while that of the left side remains as the ductus arteriosus. The Cerebral Vesicles.—Each of the five cerebi'al vesicles consists primarily of five parts, —a roof-plate, a floor-plate, an alar lamina or dorsal zone of the lateral wall on each side, a basal lamina or ventral zone of the lateral wall on each side, and a cavity. Each of these five parts may have a representative or representa- tives in later development. 1. The Myelencejihalon.-—From the myelen- cephalon, which, as a whole, becomes the medulla oblongata, the following are derived :— (a) From the roof - plate, the posterior velum. (6) From the floor-plate, the median raphe, (c) From the alar laminae, the nuclei of the sensory i-oots of some of the cranial * Some enibryologists maintain that there are six. nerves, the nuclei of Goll and Bur- dach, and the olivai-y bodies. {d) From the basal laminte, the nuclei of the motor roots of some of the cranial nerves, and the formatio reticularis. (e) From the cavity, the- posterior part of the fourth ventricle. 2. The Metencephalon, as a whole, becomes the cerebellum and pons. Its comiection with the mesencephalon constitutes the isthmus rhomb- encephali. Both these parts are represented by certain structures; therefore those arising from the isthmus are placed separately— (ffl) From the roof-plate, part of the posterior velum and the vermis of the cere- bellum. (5) From the floor-plate, the median raphe (?). (c) From the alar lamina), the lobes of the cerebellum, the flocculi, the nuclei of the sensory roots of some of the cranial nerves, and the nuclei of the pons (?). ((/) From the basal laminfe, the nuclei of the motor roots of some of the cranial nerves and the formatio reticularis {1). (e) From the cavity, part of the fourth ventricle. 2a. The Isthmus Rhomhencephali gives origin, in all probability, to the following structures :— (a) From the roof-plate, the anterior velum and the valve of Vieussens. {h) From the floor-plate, the median raphe, (c) From the alar luminae, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum or brachia conjunctiva. ((7) From the basal laminae, the posterior part of the crura cerebri and the posterior part of the tegmentum (?). (e) From the cavity, part of the fourth ventricle. 3. The Mesencephalon, as a whole, gives rise to part of the crura cerebri and to the corpora quadrigemina, but it is not exactly known in what manner. The following is an incomplete and tentative arrangement:— {a) From the roof-plate, some part not identified. (Jj) From the floor-plate, the median raphe. (c) From the alar laminae, the corpora quadrigemina. id) From the basal laminae, the nuclei of the third and fourth cranial nerves, the anterior part of the tegmentum, and the anterior part of the crura cerebri. {e) From the cavity, the iter or aqueduct of Sylvius. 4. The Diencephalon or TJialamencephalon, which, as a whole, constitutes the optic thalami, the corpora albicantia, and the pineal body, gives rise in detail to the following parts :— {a) From the roof-plate, the velum inter- positum and the pineal gland or epiphysis.