388 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF is harder and firmer. At times, too, the gall- bladder can be felt to its inner side. The treatment of distended gall-bladder will depend on the cause, but as a rule, when due to non-malignant disease it will be necessary to perform cholecystotomy, and at the same time remove the obstruction whether that be situated in the cystic or common duct. When due to stricture of the cystic duct the gall-bladder should either be removed, or connected to the duodenum by the operation of cholecystenteros- tomy. New growth affecting the bile passages is almost always of the nature of columnar-celled epithelioma, but simple tumours have been found from time to time, and some believe that adenomata precede all primary carcinomas affecting the gall-bladder or ducts. Primary cancer of the gall-bladder is not very common ; but it does supervene on chronic chole- lithiasis more often than is usually believed, as when the disease occurs it is quite commonly assumed to be primary malignant disease of the liver. More frequently the gall-bladder becomes affected with cancer by extension from neigh- bouring organs, and then the tumour differs in its histological characters according to the site of origin. When the gall - bladder alone is affected as a rule the wall is uniformly infil- trated before the disease is sufficiently marked to give rise to symptoms. Dissemination, other- wise than by local extension, is rare, but the glands in the lesser omentum usually are involved in the later stages. Mostly the liver is the organ first invaded, but where cholelithic symptoms have been marked it is not unusual for the pylorus, duodenum, or colon to be involved early on account of their having become previously adherent to the gall-bladder. The diagnosis of cancer of the gall-bladder is always difficult in the early stages, and often impossible before exploration of the abdomen. Almost invariably there is a history of attacks of gall-stone colic extending over a lengthened period, then comes progressive deterioration of health without much local manifestation other than a sense of discomfort in the gall-bladder region scarcely amounting to pain. As the disease progresses the pain becomes more marked and more diffuse, often extending toward the right scapular region. In the early stages no tumour can be made out on palpation, but with the growth of the local disease a hard rounded mass comes to be readily felt below the costal margin, at first freely movable during respiration, but later becoming more fixed and nodular. Unless gall-stones are present there is throughout an absence of anything like marked tenderness. Early in the disease there is no jaundice, but later jaundice is frequent, and may be due to extension of the disease along the cystic duct, to catarrh of the ducts, to invasion of the liver, or to pressure on the common duct by the enlarged lymphatic glands. Associated with these symptoms may be others arising from the extension of the growth to the surrounding organs. As the disease progresses, the general condi- tion of the patient rapidly deteriorates until he succumbs to the malady. Malignant disease may be closely simulated by inflammatory adhesions in the neighbour- hood of the gall-bladder, but in the latter case there is not the same deterioration of health vmless suppuration supervenes, when the eleva- tion of temperature and marked local tenderness will afford a clue to the state of affairs. Where the disease is limited to the gall- bladder, treatment by cholecystectomy affords a very fair hope of cure ; and even if the liver be involved, in certain cases it will be found pos- sible to remove the disease with a possibility of cure, and the certainty of amelioration of symp- toms. In the majority of cases, at the present time, however, when the patient comes to the surgeon nothing but the alleviation of symptoms by the exhibition of sedatives can be hoped for. Tumours of the Bile Ducts When the gall-bladder is much shrunken from old-standing inflammation it occasionally happens that the common duct distends so markedly, as a result of obstruction low down, that it can be made out as a distinct tumour. As a rule these cases have been diagnosed either as distended gall-bladders or as hydatid disease of the liver, and the true state of affairs has only been made out when the abdomen was opened. If such a case be due to an impacted gall-stone this should be removed, and the opening in the duct through which it is extracted stitched up, since the cases which have been treated by drainage of the duct have nearly always up to the present done badly. Where it is not possible to remove the cause, choledochenterostomy should be performed rather than choledochostomy, since a per- manent biliary fistula will follow the latter procedure, while the chance of recovery from operation, judging from published results, is distinctly less than when the bile stream is short circuited. Simple new grcnvths of the bile ducts occur, but are very rare; malignant disease, though not at all a frequent condition, is much more common. Any part of the larger ducts may be involved, but tlie tumour is most frequently situated in the lower part of the common duct. Practically in all cases cancer of the ducts is preceded by cholelithiasis, and this renders the diagnosis difficult, as the symptoms of both conditions are usually present. The growth is iisually annular, and histo- logically is a columnar-celled carcinoma. The