EQUILIBRIUM 172 dog that has previously recovered from the incoordination consequent on removal of the vestibule on both sides, the disturbances of co- ordination once more become manifest. So too it is found that the loss of ampullar influ- ences is compensated for in a pigeon whose cerebral hemispheres are intact, but not in one in which they have been removed before the operation on the semicircular canals. Disorders of Equilibration. — In clinical work we meet with a large number of affections, notably of the nervous system, in which dis- orders of equilibration occur as one of the manifestations that make up the symptom— complex, labelled as this or that disease. More- over, as may be supposed from what has been said in connection with the anatomical and physiological parts of this article, diseases affecting very widely different parts of the nervous system may be attended by disturb- ance of equilibrium. Under such circumstances there may only be a subjective sensation of giddiness, or there may be objective staggering, while in a small number of cases forced move- ments occur in which the patient may, for instance, rotate about his longitudinal axis. In multiple peripheral neuritis it sometimes happens that the chief motor disturbance is ataxy or incoordination, and so striking is this in some cases that the condition has been spoken of as pseudo-tabes or neuro-tabes, owing to the resemblance which cases of the kind bear to the disease tabes dorsalis, or locomotor ataxy, whose chief seat is the spinal cord, the posterior columns of which are sclerosed. In this latter affection, as one of its names implies, a pro- minent feature in the symptomatology of the majority of the cases is incoordination or ataxy, which may be manifested by an utter inability on the part of the patient to stand or walk. When the disturbance is less marked progression is possible, though the gait is ataxic; so too the patient may be able to stand, though on attempt- ing to do so with the feet together and the eyes closed he sways, and if unsupported, tends to fall (Romberg's sign). In other words, what he is able to accomplish by the aid of sight is no longer possible when this afferent channel is closed, as well as those which transmit impulses from the skin, muscles, and joints of the lower extremities. In other diseases of the spinal cord in which the posterior columns are affected incoordination is a common feature. Friedreich's ataxy is an instance of this, as is cerebellar heredo-ataxy, although in these diseases the sclerosis of the cerebellar tracts may play a part in the causation of the disturbance of equilibration, while in the latter atrophy of the cerebellum may further contribute to this end. In the affection known as ataxic paraplegia, which is said to be due to a combined sclerosis of the postei'ior and lateral columns of the spinal cord, disturbances of equilibration are present to a variable degree, and unsteadiness may be one of the earliest symptoms of the important group of cases of acute combined degenerations of the spinal cord for which there has as yet been no very satisfactory name proposed. Disseminate sclerosis supplies an example of a disease in which disturbances of co-ordination may be due to interruption of afferent or efferent channels by the sclerotic patches, or of implication of some part of the central machinery which is. concerned in maintaining equilibrium. Tumours, htemorrhagic extravasations, and softening from vascular occlusion, may each of them be responsible for disorders of equilibra- tion if the lesion be situated in the medulla oblongata, pons, or corpora quadrigemina; but in none of these situations is the morbid process so liable to be attended by this symptom as when the cerebellum is affected, and, moreover, when the lesion is in the pons the most pro- nounced disturbance of equilibration results when the middle peduncle of the cerebellum is involved. Incoordination, the result of cere- bellar disease, is commonly manifested by a reeling or staggering gait, which resembles that of an inebriated person ; but sometimes there is a forced movement in some direction, e.g. rota- tion of the individual around the longitudinal axis of his body, or there may be a strong subjective sensation of such rotation even where no actual movement occurs. Forced movements of the kind have usually been associated with lesions of one or other of the peduncles of the cerebellum rather than of the organ itself. Various affections of the brain are attended by disturbance of equilibrium, but here the subjective sensation of giddiness is more com- monly met with than any objective evidence as manifested by disorders of station or locomotion. Thus it is that giddiness is one of the commonest aurse in epilepsy; so too in old people with degenerate arteries, whose brains are presumably ill-nourished, attacks of giddiness with, it may be, outward manifestations of this frequently result, or the giddiness may usher in an attack of cerebral haemorrhage or thrombosis. Of tumours in the cerebral hemispheres those in the frontal lobes are especially liable to be attended by giddiness, and in some cases there is actual unsteadiness resembling that which may occur in cerebellar disease. Erroneous visual perceptions consequent on paralytic defect of an ocular muscle cause disorders of equilibration, which may be re- covered from, in spite of the ocular defect persisting, in that the centres concerned Avith the maintenance of equilibrium learn to dis- regard the erroneous impressions received. More striking and important are the disturb- ances of equilibration consequent on interference with the auditory nerve in so far as its vestibular portion is concerned. Tumours and the like, involving this nerve at the base of the brain„