10 ECLAMPSIA, NEW THEORIES OF ORIGIN AND METHODS OF TREATMENT is some difference of opinion as to the part played by the thyroid gland and the para- thyroids in the production of the convulsions, this does not materially alfect the treatment of eclampsia by thyroid extract, for it would seem that thyroid medication remedies troubles due to parathyi'oid inadequacy. Theory of Placental or Chorionic Origin. —Much has been said of late in favour of the theory that the toxines tliat cause eclampsia have their origin in the placenta, but the evidence is not conclusive, for cases of eclampsia occur in the puerperium when there is no longer any placenta in which toxines can be formed, or from which pieces of syncytium can be detached. Leepman {Aliinch. med. Wochenschr. Hi. 2484, 1905), apparently, has no doubt regarding the toxic character of a solution made from the placentas of eclamjatic patients ; he believes that the toxine, which is very labile, is fixed in the protoplasm of the cells of the placenta, and that it is absent from the normal placenta; he is of opinion, also, that the fewer the fits which occur the greater is the amount of toxine in the placenta, while the more numerous are the fits the less toxine is found in the placenta. He thinks that the toxine has a special affinity for the cells of the brain which fix it, neutralise it, and are paralysed by it; that it acts deleteri- ously on the renal and hepatic parenchyma, and that the lesions in these organs are, therefore, secondary to the toxaemia, and that the epithe- lium of the chorionic portion of the placenta appears to play an important part in forming the toxine. Leepman surmounts the difficulty of the puerperal cases by supposing that the liver may temporarily store up the toxine during pregnancy and labour to liberate it later. His reason for not accepting the theory that the foetus is the source of the toxine is the fact that the child itself is so seldom injured by it. The deportation of villi or of parts of villi from the placenta into the mother's Vjlood is a closely allied theory to that stated above, but it is very lai'gely theoretical. Labhardt {Zeitschr. f. Geburtsh. u. Gyncik. liv. 264, 1905) discusses this view and the modifications of it, and groups them into three classes—(1) Schmorl thought that placental cells passed into the maternal circulation ; Elirlich had shown that the entrance of foreign cells into an organism caused chemical changes; and Veit believed that the placental cells produced a poison in the mother which caused eclampsia. Since only a few cells usually passed over very little poison was produced, and so eclampsia rarely followed. (2) Ascoti ex- panded this view, and stated that the foreign cells brought about the formation of new sub- stances which dissolved them and neutralised their poisonous effects; these new substances were lysins (syncytiolysins); if they are formed in excess they cause eclampsia. (3) Weichardt, again, thought that by the solution of the placental cells a new poison was formed (syn- cytiotoxin), which is usually neutralised by an antitoxine, and that if the antitoxine fail to be formed in sufficient amount the syncytiotoxine causes the eclamptic seizures. Labhardt criti- cises these views, pointing out that deportation of villi is frequent, while eclampsia is rare, that the placental cells are hardly " foreign " to the maternal organism, that eclampsia is very rare in animals which possess placentas, and that the frequency of eclampsia in primiparse, in cases of flat pelvis and hydramnios, and in certain places and at certain times, is not accounted for by this theory. Its non - occurrence in cases of tubal abortion is also a mystery. It must be admitted that the proof of the placental theory of origin of eclampsia is defec- tive. In the meantime, however, in Bumm's clinique, obstetric practice proceeds along the lines which are obviously indicated by such a theory if it be correct, viz. the immediate empty- ing of the uterus. Up to 1895 the treatment there was purely symptomatic by means of nar- cotics, etc., and the mortality was 30 per cent; from 1895 to 1900 narcotics were still used, with hot packs, venesection, and the use of saline infusions, and the mortality was 30 per cent; since 1901 immediate delivery (by hystero- tomia anterior if the os were undilated, by for- ceps or version or perforation in other cases) has been practised, narcotics and chloroform being sparingly used, and venesection and the use of saline infusions and hot packs being employed as subsidiary agents. Out of 104 cases so dealt with the mortality has been 2'8 per cent (three deaths having occurred); but it is noteworthy that some fatal cases were excluded from the lists. Elsewhere than in Berlin and Halle the treatment of eclampsia by rapid delivery seems to be in favour. De Lee (Internat. Clinics, s. xvi. vol. i. p. 145, 1906), for instance, believes in emptying the uterus as rapidly as is con- sistent with the safety of the mother. Zweifel also {Miinchen. med. Wchnschr. liii. 297, 1906), believing as he does that the cause of eclampsia is foetal (deficient oxygenation), empties the uterus as soon as he can. Dienst {Zentrlhl. f. Gyndk. xxix. 353, 1905) regards the causal factor in eclampsia as the mixing of the fcEtal and the maternal blood, for he found the placenta in such cases to be more permeable, and he thinks that blood from the foetus acts upon that of the mother like the blood of a distinct species. In support of his views, Dienst discovered that blood obtained by venesection from two cases of albuminuria, when tested upon normal blood, caused agglutination and hsemolysis; after delivery, the maternal blood was tested on that of the infants for agglutination, with a positive result. It must, therefore, from these and many other observations, be admitted that the theory of the foetal or placental origin of the toxaemia of eclampsia, although not established,