21 ECTOPIC GESTATION thus controlled, the remainmg blood, both fluid and coagulated, is removed, all being carefully examined for traces of an embryo or a mole. If the pregnancy be an early one, say at the second month, the operation then consists of a simple salpingo-oophorectomy ; but if later, when the placenta has been formed, the procedure becomes more complicated. The difficulty is the treat- ment of the placenta. If it be still firmly attached to the interior of the tube it is best to endeavour to control its blood-supply, to cut the cord close to its placental attachment, and to close the abdomen without drainage, which simply increases the danger of sepsis. In favourable cases the placenta atrophies and gives rise to no furtlier trouble. If, owing to a previous rupture, the placenta has escaped and has become adherent to the intestines, it is still more dangerous to attempt its removal, whicli only sets up further and often incon- troUable luemorrhage. Sometimes the placenta becomes easily de- tached during the course of the operation, and may be safely removed along with the foetus. When it is impossible to completely stop the oozing in the pelvis, it may be necessary to pack the cavity with iodoform gauze after washing out the cavity of the abdomen with a sterilised solution. If the other tube is healthy it may be left intact, but if diseased it should certainly be removed. 3. After Rupture.—As a rule the surgeon is called only some time after rupture has taken place. If this be extra-peritoneal and has occurred during the first two months of preg- nancy, no operation should be undertaken unless there is evidence that the fa^tus is still alive, and that the gestation sac is developing, when the operation must be performed at once. The operation in the early months may not be much more difficult than that for the removal of a dilated tube, but there is a tendency for much greater hicmorrhage to occur, and many vessels have to be secured. In the later months the operation becomes extremely difficult. Adhe- sions are numerous, and unist be dissected cai'efully apart, or must be ligatured and divided. The hicmorrhage is profuse, and the gestation sac must be completely enucleated. In many cases, however, this is impossible, and the oozing is so persistent that packing the cavity and drainage by iodoform gauze is the only means of satisfactorily dealing with the condition, the sac, if possible, being stitched to the abdominal wound. In many cases, however, after opening the abdomen it is found, owing to the mnnerous adhesions and the excessive vascularity of the sac, it is better to deal with it extra-peritoneally. The peritoneal cavity is closed, and then if the sac be situated low in the pelvis, and can be easily reached jicr vaginam, it should be opened through the vaginal roof, the cavity cleared out and packed and drained by iodoform gauze. If, on the other hand, the sac is situated higher up and comes into contact with the abdominal wall, it is better to make an extra-peritoneal opening into it, just above Poupart's ligament, and to wash it out and drain as before. Vaginal Section.—There is no doubt that in cases undertaken at the time of inti'a-peritoneal rupture, when the hfemorrhage is excessive and diffuse, the best and most rapid method of reaching the bleeding vessels is by the abdominal route. But, in other cases when the haemorrhage is localised, and in many cases of early extra- uterine pregnancy which have not ruptured, vaginal section is preferred by some operators. In cases where the pouch of Douglas is occupied by a limited hccmatocele, the operation of opening into it through the posterior vaginal fornix is extremely simple. An incision is made into the bulging tumour, the clots are gently cleared out, and the cavity ii-rigated. The limiting membrane of the hsematocele is not in any way interfered with, and the cavity is drained by a tube or by iodoform gauze. It becomes less and less, till ultimately it is im- possible to introduce a drain, and the opening into the vagina closes up. In some cases, on passing the fingers through the vaginal incision into the abdominal cavity, not only can the swelling pi'oduced by the hfematocele be felt, but also the rupture in the tul)e from which the blood has escaped can be detected. In such instances it is sometimes possible to bring the tube down to the vaginal opening, to ligature its uterine end, and so remove it. In other cases, however, one has to be contented with simply removing as much as possible of the ovum, and irrigating and drain- ing tlie sac as before. Under these circum- stances the hfemorrhage is often very trouble- some and persistent, but by ligature, thorough douching, and packing, it can generally be con- trolled. If not, the abdomen must be opened suprapubically, and the bleeding points, which have been out of reach per vaginam, secured. The cases in which an extra-uterine pregnancy after ruptxu-e may be dealt with by vaginal coeliotomy must be carefully selected ; they are those in which the vagina is roomy, where tlie haemorrhage is limited, and where the swelling is situated mainly behind the uterus. Of recent years some operators have advocated anterior vaginal coeliotomy, opening into tlie al)dominal cavity between the uterus and the bladder. The fundus of the uterus is drawn througli the incision by means of volsella, and so the uterine end of the tube comes within reach and can be controlled, and no doubt an early unruptured tubal pregnancy can by this method be easily ligatured and removed. But, if rupture or hfemorrhage from tlie abdominal ostium has taken place, it is not so easy to satisfactorily deal with the hematocele by the