FOOD 330 the crosses (x) indicate the maximum of spawning; the dotted lines include the months when the fish is " out of season"; this is to some extent a matter of individual opinion, and there are many degrees of being out of condition. All of the periods are liable to some slight amount of local or annual variation, but the table may be taken as a fair average :— Professors Herdman and Boyce have recently published the results of their investigations into oysters and disease, and as an outcome of their experiments in regard to the typhoid bacilli they found by washing infected oysters in a stream of clean sea-water that there was a great diminution or total disappearance of the typhoid bacilli in from one to seven days. Their experi- Salmon Plaice . Dab . Lemon Sole Sole . Cod . Haddock Whiting Gurnard Turbot Brill . Flounder Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. June. July. Sopt. Oct. Nov. Dec. The locality (y) is chiefly of importance in the case of stationary shell-fish, such as oysters, mussels, etc., taken from sewage-contaminated waters, the noxious matter being sometimes taken in by the fish with its food, or the body of the fish being merely soiled with the filth. An exceedingly important inquiry was recently made by Dr. Bulstrode into the conditions under which oysters and certain other shell-fish are cultivated and stored along the coast of England and Wales. His investigation is given in detail in the 24th Annual Report to the Local Govern- ment Board. Oysters are perhaps better known than other shell-fish to be possible agents in disseminating typhoid fever and forms of choleraic disease, probably because that class being a more im- portant article of food than other shell-fish, greater attention has been paid to it, but there can be no doubt at all that what applies to oysters also applies to other shell-fish used for food. Dr. Bulstrode's report makes it abimdantly plain that many of the beds in which natives are grown, or foreign oysters are deposited for fattening purposes, are so situated as to be almost necessarily bathed with the effluent of sewers, and the shell-fish are in consequence liable to be fouled with the excreta of persons suffering from diseases of the type of cholera and typhoid fever. The transmission of typhoid by this means is now generally acknowledged. ments showed that sea-water was inimical to the growth of the typhoid bacilli, and although their presence was demonstrated in one case on the twenty-first day after addition of the water, still there appears to be no initial or subsequent multiplication of the bacilli. They also found that the colon group of bacilli is frequently found in shell-fish as sold in towns, and especially in the oyster, b\it they found no evidence that it occurs in moUusca living in pure sea-water. They also found the frequent presence in various shell-fish of anaerobic spore-bearing bacilli, showing the characteristics of the bacillus enteritidis sporogenes. They remark that " it is evident, from these experiments and a consideration of all the facts brought to light in recent years in regard to the bacteriology of shell-fish and its influence on public health, that we must regard oysters, mussels, cockles, etc., as nutritious food matters, which, from their nature and circumstances of their cultivation and sale, are liable to become contaminated with organisms, pathogenic or otherwise, and their deleterious products." It is unnecessary to insist upon the absolute importance of steps being taken to remove any possible suspicion of sewage contamination from the beds and layings from which oysters are supplied to the market. With regard to the green oysters which are largely imported from America and laid down