GLANDERS (FARCY) 453 degenerative. These bodies show no greater resistance to heat and chemical agents than do the ordinary bacilli, and nobody has claimed to see bacilli issue from them. The long thread- like forms may measure 10'26 fj. or more. The bacillus is non-motile. Staining Reactions. — Smear preparations should be made as thin as possible. The bacillus stains readily with basic aniline dyes, presenting usually irregularities, i.e. alternate deeply staining or clear and faintly staining parts. Bacilli are best looked for in young nodules. Owing to the fact that they readily decolorise and are often hidden by the nuclear chromatin contained in the necrotic tissue in which they lie (Unna) it is at times very difficult to demonstrate them in sections. They may be demonstrated in smear- preparations by means of Lofiler's alkaline methylene-blue (methylene-blue cone, alcoholic sol. 30 ccm., aqueous solution of caustic potash (^QQoo) 100 ccm.), the stain acting for 5 minutes, after which the preparation is dipped for 1 second in 1 per cent aqueous solution of acetic acid to which a few drops of an aqueous solution of tropaolin 00 have been added, after which they are quickly washed ott' with distilled water, dried, and mounted in balsam. Tropaolin decolorises the protoplasm of the cells and their nuclei (partially), but not the bacilli (Loffier). Kiihue (1888) advises to transfer sections from alcohol to water, staining with carbolic methylene-blue for 3-4 minutes, decolorising a few seconds with acidulated (HCl) watei", washing thoroughly with water, and drying by pressing down iipon the section with blotting-paper. The section is then treated 8-10 minutes with aniline oil, to which 20 per cent oil of turpentine has been added, this being followed by oil of turpentine, xylol, and mounting in balsam. Sections thus prepared do not show histological details, and are not durable. Unna (1893) directs to dry the sections upon the slide, stain h hour with methylene-blue (according to Loffler, Kiihne, Unna); place the slide in water, thus liberating the section, which is then put for some seconds in glycerine-ether mixture, and thence l)ack- wards and forwards to water, finally through watei', absolute alcohol, oil of turpentine, and mounted in balsam. For double staining he recommends placing the sections in 1 per cent acid fuchsin overnight, washing with water, drying, staining \ hour in methylene-blue, followed by treatment with 1 per cent arsenious acid for 5-10 seconds, water, alcohol, oil of Bergamot, and mounting in balsam. Abbott (1899) finds the following simpler method useful:—Transfer the sections from alcohol to distilled water, thence to dilute fuchsin kept 15-20 minutes at about 50° C. Transfer to a slide, absorb superfluous stain with Vilotting- l)aper, treat minute with 1 per cent acetic acid, remove the acid with distilled water, dry the sections with blotting-paper, wash it 15 seconds with absolute alcohol, clear with xylol, and mount in xylol balsam. Muir and Ritchie (1899) especially recommend carbol-thionin-blue. Add one part of stock-solution, 1 gramme thionin-blue dissolved in 100 ccm. carbolic acid solution (1 : 40) to three parts water, and filter. Stain for 5 minutes or longer, wash thoroughly with water, decolorise with weak acetic acid, wash with water, dehydrate with aniline-oil. The bacilli do not stain by Gram's method. Rosenthal (1888) was able to stain bodies resembling spores in bacilli obtained from old cultures when using Neisser's method for staining endogenous spores. But this is no proof that spores actually occur. Babes (1891) finds that the so-called chromatic portions of the bacilli take on a violet colour with Lofifler's stain. Stained with aniline-fuchsin, followed by methylene-blue, the bacilli often show bluish red oval granules within their substance. Marx (1889) finds that the clear spaces observed when staining with carbol-fuchsin may be stained brown by Neisser's stain for B. diphtheric^ (methylene-blue and vesuvin), this stain also demonstrating 3-5-9 round dark blue bodies (Babes-Ernst bodies) situated at regular intervals witliin the bacillus. Cultivation.—Though piu'e cultures have been obtained from abscesses they are best made from fresh nodules, as these contain most bacilli. It is best to make the first culture upon potato or blood-serum, as negative results are at times obtained if they are immediately transferred to agar. There are differences observable in the initial cultures which might lead one to suppose that there are difterent varieties of the bacillus. On potato some rapidly assume their character- istic colour, others do so slowly, whilst some grow well and othei's badly upon gelatin. Passage thi'ough the guinea-pig renders the germ easier to cultivate (v. Babes, 1891). Bacteriologists all agree that the bacillus shows its most characteristic growth upon potato, and, as it grows excellently upon this medium, it is well for purposes of diagnosis to cultivate initial cultures thereon. The bacillus grows best in the presence of oxygen, and at a temperatvu'e of 35°-37° C. It grows fairly well at 25°, vei-y slowly at 21°, which may be considered the minimum temperature at which it will multiply. It still grows at 42°, but not at 43° C. It grows better upon slightly acid or neutral media, and preserves its virulence longest upon acid potato. Potatoes are best prepared, according to Kresling (1892), by washing the slices with 0'5-0'7 per cent sodium carbonate solution xmtil the wash-water remains clear. The potatoes are sterilised 80 minutes at 110° C. They should have a degree of acidity corresponding I to 0-1-0-3 ccm. of -^^ normal soda solution.