472 GLAUCOMA is advanced degeneration of the blood-vessels; it may be induced by violent coughing, sneezing, or straining of any kind; it may depend on direct injury of the ciliary processes by a deeply placed incision. Its avoidance depends largely on careful regulation of the patient's condition with regard to the action of bowel and kidneys, sleep, and absence of cough ; on gentleness in operating, and on rest and tranquillity during the following few days. The worst form of hcfimorrhage is the retro-choroidal; it causes extrusion of the lens and vitreous through the incision, and calls for prompt removal of the eye. It is very rare. Failures of any kind through haemorrhage are quite exceptional. More frequently an iridectomy fails by effecting neither a reopening of the filtration angle nor the formation of a vicarious channel. Thus an incision which lies entirely in the cornea, or nearly so, closes too quickly and firmly, giving an inextensible cicatrix which affords no drain- age. Again, a very shallow chamber with high tension involves danger to the lens. As the aqueous escapes the lens is driven forward by pressure from behind, and may be ruptured against the back of the knife through the inter- vening iris; or without being actually injured, it may be driven forwards so forcibly after the operation as to block the wound and prevent the drainage of the eye ; it may even be extruded through the wound during the following twenty- four hours. When, after an apparently perfect operation, we find on the following day that the iris is in contact or nearly so with the cornea, the wound not leaking, and the eye hard, we have the formidable condition known as malig- nant glaucoma. The displaced lens is blocking the wound, and the best chance of saving the eye lies in making a scleral puncture as described below, and following it at once by steady pressure on the centre of the cornea by means of a curette or other smooth instrument, continued until the anterior chamber is re-established by the entrance of fluid between iris and cornea. For this a general anaesthetic is likely to be reijuired. If this manoeuvre fail, or if the lens be injured as well as displaced, extraction of the lens affords a last chance of saving the eye, the posterior capsule being divided at the same time, so as to establish free communication with the vitreous chamber. A shallow chamber after iridectomy need excite no apprehension so long as the tension of the eye remains low. Sclerotomy.—This operation opens the anterior chamber by an incision more or less resembling the first act of an iridectomy, and leaves the iris intact. Experience has shown that every form of primary glaucoma will yield in some cases to sclerotomy, but it has shown also that sclero- tomy is on the whole less trustworthy than the older operation, for the reason that the iris is apt to occlude the wound during the healing- process, and that in any case the filtration angle remains more liable to occlusion than after the removal of the iris-segment. The chief use of sclerotomy is as a supplement to iridectomy when the latter fails to permanently reduce the tension. In the absence of the iris-segment it is a simple operation, and is generally preferable to a second iridectomy at the opposite side of the circle. Sclerotomy, like iridectomy, may sometimes be advantageously preceded by a scleral puncture. For glaucoma with deep antei-ior chamber, as in serous cyclitis and con- genital buphthalmos, jMracentesis of the cornea is usually preferable to iridectomy. In such cases the incision must be of small extent, and repeated if necessary several times, each time at a different part of the cornea. For secondary glaucoma after cataract extraction, sclerotomy combined with division of any membrane which is stretched across the pupil is usually the best remedy. Scleral runcfure or Posterior Sclerotomy.— The eye is turned inwards so as to expose the outer part of the sclera. The surgeon, taking a Graefe knife in one hand and forceps in the other, seizes the conjunctiva a little below the horizontal meridian, and slides it downwards a little over the sclera. Keeping the back of the knife towards the cornea, and the point directed towards the centre of the globe, he punctures the sclera at a jioint about six millimetres from the corneal margin and a little below the horizontal meridian. After entering about ten millimetres the knife is rotated on its axis, so as to give a gaping wound through which fluid escapes, and slowly withdrawn. The conjunctiva is then allowed to slide back into its place so that the conjunctival and scleral wounds are not directly continuous. This operation is useful chiefly as a preliminary or adjunct to iridectomy or sclerotomy. Used alone, although it gives immediate relief of tension and corresponding improvement of vision, it rarely if ever effects a permanent cure. A scleral puncture made immediately before a glaucoma iridectomy, especially where the chamber is shallow and the eye very hard, facilitates the making of a good incision, and thereby diminishes the risks and the causes of possible failure which attend an iridectomy under these circumstances. It occasionally, however, reduces the tension of the eye to such an extent as to hinder rather than help the performance of the iridectomy. In such cases, which in the writer's experience are extremely rare, the scleral puncture will suffice for temporary relief, and the ii'idectomy must be postponed mitil a more normal tension is restored. In very advanced and doubtful cases, where the possibility of recovering useful sight is uncertain, it is well to make a scleral puncture as a test operation in the first instance, and if the result i^e encouraging, to make an iridectomy a few days later. Other Substitutes for Iridectomy.—In cases of