EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 81 B. At the End of the Second Week. In order to picture to oui'selves the state of affairs in utero towards the end of the second week after impregnation, we have the specimens of Graf Spec (12 days), Mertteus (8 days (?) but pi'obably more), F. Burgio (12 to 13 days), Reichert (12 to 13 days), Breus (12 to 14 days), F. P. Mall (13 days), Keibel (13 to 14 days?), Mertteus (14 days). His (13 to 15 days), Leopold (14 to 15 days), Eternod, and some others.^ Of course it must be remembered that these ages are only approximate, for it is extremely difficult from the history of the case to fix the -proh- able age of the conception. Further, the appearances and measurements of the embryos cannot be used as definite guides, for there is some reason to believe that all embryos do not progress towards a given stage in their develoj)- raent with the same degree of rapidity. AVith these considerations in full view we may now proceed to form an idea of the condition of the new organism at the end of tlie second week. At this date there exists, as all the specimens show, a distinct and recognisal)lc Embryo; no longer have we to do with a pro-embryon or embryonic indication. At the same time, the embryonic part of the ovular mass is still insig- nificant in jioint of size when compared with the embryonic vesicles and the decidual membranes. We shall, therefore, first consider the decidual membranes, the chorion, the amnion, and the umbilical vesicle. The decidua reflexa (capsularis) now forms a complete fold over the ovular mass, but the outer polar portion is mainly, if not entirely, fibrinous in nature, showing neither surface epithelium nor decidual cells, nor glands. The decidua serotina (basalis) exhibits clearly the division into a compact and a spongy layer. The outer parts of some of the glands are obliterated. Large decidual cells (many of them spindle-shaped) arc seen in the compact layer, as are also many sinuses containing blood. Nucleated plasmodial masses are to be discovered lying among the decidual cells. In the spongy layer the gland spaces are large, and are lined with columnar or cubical epithelium. Decidual cells and Plasmodium are also found in the spongy part. On the surface of the compact layer of the serotina next to the ovular mass is i^lasmodiTira or syncytium continuous with that covering the villi (for there are now distinct villi). Tiie general opinion held at the present time is that this Plasmodium is not formed fi'om the orginal surface epithelium of the decidua or from that of the gland ducts, but in the way which has been already indicated. Inside the decidual membranes (reflexa and The references of the contributions in wliich these embryos are described will be found in Hertwig's 7/(vn(/6»c/i. clcr i-rri/leiclirndoi iind cxpcrimentellni Entwickdungf:hhrc der M'irhehhicre, Jena, 1901-1903. and in other recent text-books of Embryology, e.g. that of M'Murrich. VOL. Ill serotina) lies the ovular mass or chorionic vesicle (as we may now call it). It has a diameter varying from 3 to 5 mms., and it is furnished at this date with recognisable villi, no longer with simi^le strands of trophoblast. These villi are mostly simple, Imt a few are branched, and they may cover the whole chorionic vesicle or 1)0 defective at the poles ; they measure about ■5 mm. in length; and they are attached to the decidua reflexa and serotina. They are covered with a coating of syncytium, and below that lies a layer of distinct cubical cells, Langhans' layer. Nearly all the villi have now a mesol )lastic core of connective tissue. The syncytial covering of the A'illi is, as has been already stated, continuous witli that on the surface of the Fig. 6.—DiaKiaiimiatic section of one-half of Mall's early ovum. Enlarged 10 times. The villi are only sliown in part. Ec.', ectoderm; cn., entoderm; mes., mesoderm; h.j'., umbilical vesicle; coc, ccelom; all., allantois; a., amnion. (After Mall.) serotina and reflexa. There are distinct inter- villous spaces containing maternal blood, and into these spaces masses of syncytium here and there project. About this date (end of second week) capillaries are found in the mesoblastic core of the villi. At the point of attachment of a villus to the decidua there is usually a great proliferation of the cells of Langhans' layer, forming a distinct knob. What now are the contents of the choiionie vesicle at this age ? Attached to the inner aspect of the chorionic vesicle by a stalk (Haftstiel, Bauchstiel, anlage of the umbilical cord) is a mass which consists of the amniotic sac, the umbilical vesicle, and the embryo (Figs. 6, 7, and 8). The amniotic sac is closed, and it covers the dorsal surface of the embryo lying close to it; on the ventral surface is a wide opening leading from the hypoblastic or ento- dermal interior into the umliilical vesicle. Both the amniotic sac and the innbilical vesicle are 6