GLANDULAR P^EVER 461 vomiting. There is usually some pain on swallowing, but there is either no acute pharyngitis, and this is the rule, or only some slight catarrh which is insufficient to account for the dysphagia and pain in the neck. Con- stipation is nearly always present at this stage, but in very mild cases small mucous stools may be passed at frequent intervals. After these symptoms have persisted for two or at most three days, attention is drawn to an oval swel- ling beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and presenting at its anterior border. In almost all cases this swelling is situated on the left side, and is perceived on palpation to be due to two, three, or more glands. Medical aid is often first sought at this stage. The enlargement of the glands continues to increase for two or three days more. At the end of this period the pain in them ceases, and they decrease in size. Meanwhile adenitis has probably begun in other groups of glands, and runs a similar course. The glands most usually affected second in order are tiie corresponding group on the right side, but the posterior cervical, the axillary, the inguinal, and the mesenteric may become en- larged and tender, and some observers believe that the last-named are involved in at least half the cases. The temperature commonly attains its maximum, it may be as high as 104° v., on the third day, when the adenitis of the first group of glands to be involved is in its most acute stage. Its later course is uncertain, and depends apparently on the number of groups of glands attacked. There is no distinct defervescence so long as fresh groups are being attacked. Convalescence usually begins at the end of a fortnight. The commencement of defervescence is frequently marked in severe cases by the passage of numerous copious green stools containing much mucus. The pulse continues rapid for a day or two after the temperature falls. The enlargement of the glands diminishes slowly, but eventually it disappears completely. Suppuration seldom or never occurs. The severity of the disease varies very much in different cases. As a rule it is a mild affection, but occasionally the symptoms are severe, and suggest the onset of typhoid fever. Such cases may be complicated by nephritis, and there may be blood in the urine. Convalescence even after mild attacks is gener- ally prolonged. The child is left in a condition of pronounced auiemia, it is languid and dis- inclined to exertion, appetite is poor, and even under favourable circumstances it may be several months before the health is thoroughly restored. The i/ia;/nosis, as will have been gathered from the above description of the symptoms, nnist be made mainl^^ by exclusion. The symptoms are such as will call attention to the probability of acute disease of the tonsils or pharynx. The sudden onset, after a day or two of fever, of stiffness of the neck, followed in a couple of days or so by enlargement of lym- phatic glands on one side of the neck, is, especially if accompanied by abdominal pain and constipation, very suggestive of glandular fever. Suspicion will be confirmed by tlie occurrence of other similar cases among chil- dren resident in the same house, and it should be remembered that in the same family some cases may be so mild as easily to escape atten- tion, while others may be so severe as to raise a suspicion of typhoid fever. 77te jxxthology of the disease is obscure, and will probably not be cleared up until opportunity has been found for a thorough bacteriological study of an epidemic. It is possil^le, if not probable, that the primary departure from health is some infection of the intestine; the enlargement of the mesenteric glands observed in a large proportion of cases is held to be secondary to this, and it has been sought to account for the fact that the cervical glands are affected first on the left side by the assump- tion that the infection is conveyed by the thoracic duct. The resemblance which tlie disease presents to the mildest form of bubonic plague (pestis minor) and to the " non-venereal liubo " of military writers will not escape atten- tion. Treatment must be directed to the relief of symptoms, for there appears to be no means of modifying the course of the disease. Thus hot fomentations or belladonna applications will relieve the pain attending tlie enlargement of the glands which usually commences on the left side of the neck, but will not prevent the subsequent enlargement of those on the right side. Constipation may be relieved by laxatives, or by a dose of calomel, but it soon becomes re- established, and repeated purgation is inadvis- able. Some advantage may perhaps be derived from the continuous exhibition of small doses of calomel (gr. -^^J to I or \) three or four times in the twenty-four hours, and antipyrin is of use to relieve the headache. Sodium salicylate is probably the most useful drug in the early stage when the temperature is high and the pain and stiffness in the neck severe. While the tempera- ture is raised, the child should be kept in bed and receive only fluid noui-ishment. After con- valescence has connnenced, the patient should have as much fresh air as possible, but should lie warmly clad, especially about the abdomen. Iron and tonics are indicated, and change of air is often necessary to obtain complete restoration to health. Glans ClitoridiS. See Generation, Female Oi;(.:ans of (External). Glans Penis. See Penis, Suugical Affections of. Glass-Blowers. See Lungs, Emphysema OF {Ituhicinij Caii^ex).