GASTRO-INTESTINAL DLSORDERS OF INFANCY 413 and apathetic. If he be at the age of learning to talk, he ceases to make progi'ess, and may lose eutii'ely the few words he has acquired, and a child who has just learnt to walk with the aid of a chair may even be unable to stand. Nutri- tion is impaired veiy quickly. The infant rapidly wastes, the skin is dry and inelastic, and can be pinched up in loose folds. After a few weeks of chronic diarrha^a the emaciation is often extreme, tlie face is shrunken, and looks aged and wrinkled, there is a deep furrow jiass- ing downwards from just above the ala nasi on each side, and forming a crescent round the angle of the mouth, so that the lips and mouth seem to be prominent, and the general appear- ance is not unlike that of a monkey. The skin, both of the face and trunk, is sometimes of a uuiddy brownish colour, sometimes very white, the edges of the eyelids look red and soi-e, and there is frequently some eczema behind the ears. The fontanclle is depressed, the cry is a feeble whine, the extremities are often cold and blue. The tongue is quite clean in many cases, but may be slightly furred. The abdomen is usually retracted, and through its wasted wall the coils of intestine can be seen ; slight peri- stalsis may also be visible. Sometimes the abdomen is full from the presence of gas in the intestine, and at the end of the illness an acute alxlominal distension may occur and hasten the fatal result. Flatulent eructations are often present, and sometimes have an extremely dis- agreeable sour odour. As in other forms of diarrhoea, especially wlion there is any neglect in changing the diapers and in keeping the parts clean and dry, the buttocks and perineum are apt to become red and excoriated. In this condition, perhaps, more commonly than in acute diarrhea, oedema first of the ex- tremities and then of the whole body is likely to occur, and is usually a symptom of the gravest significance ; purpura also in spots or larger patches is very common towards the end of the illness, beginning often on the abdomen, or on the upper part of the chest or neck. After these symptoms have appeared the end is not usually long delayed. Sooner or later the diarrhoea becomes more seveiT, the bowels are open ten or eleven times a day, and the evacuations are more liquid ; vomiting, whicli in many cases has only been occasional and slight, or may have been absent throughout the illness, now becomes frequent, and the tempei'ature which has hitherto been normal may rise, or may drop to subnormal. In some cases there is irregular pyrexia for several days before death; in others the tempera- ture remains normal until a few hours before the fatal issue, when it rises to 107° or 108°. With the onset of these symptoms the child falls into the state of collapse which has already been described, and death results as a rule from exhaustion. But although chronic diarrha^a in an infant is always a serious condition, and always calls for a very guarded prognosis, it is not always fatal. With careful treatment tlie bowel may be coaxed back to a healthier action, and the child slowly recover, but in such cases, even more than in those which recover from inflam- matory diarrhoea, the child is likely to be deli- cate for a long time after the attack, and relapses are extremelj' common. Complications.—In many cases of diarrlicea, whether acute or chronic, but especially in the more severe cases of acute inflammatory diar- rhoea, bronchitis and broncho-pneumonia are very liable to occur. The association is always a dangerous one, and in some cases the fatal result appears to be directly due to the broncho- pneumonia. In chronic diarrhoea the infant is often so feeble and the broncho-pneumonia comes on so insidiously, that it jaroduces but little alteration in the symptoms, and may only be discovered post-mortem. Collapse of the lung, although very commonly found after death in fatal cases of diarrluea, can seldom be detected clinically. Thrush is frequently associated with diarrhoea, especially in the more chronic cases; it is of less serious import than mothers usually imagine, but where the soreness of the mouth interferes with the taking of nourishment it may add to the seriousness of the condition. Otitis media is liable to occur with diarrhoea as with any other severe illness in childhood, no doubt owing to the prostration favouring the accumulation of micro-organisms in the pliarynx and their extension up the Eustachian tubes. The complication is worth beai'ing in mind, as it may simulate cerebral symptoms and cause much distress, which is easily relieved by hot applications, or, if necessary, by puncture of the membrana tympani. Nervous comjslications are not rai'e in severe diarrhoea. The commonest are convulsions. These sometimes occur at the onset of the disease, l)ut much more often during the last few days of life. In many cases the child falls into a sort of continuous convulsive state, rather than an actual convulsion ; it lies apparently unconscious, with its eyes turned upwards or to one side, its hands and legs twitching slightly, and an occasional twitch of the facial muscles, and in this condition it may remain for some lioui\s before death occurs. The occurrence of convulsions in the course of a severe diarrliaa is alwaj's a very serious symptom. Sometimes, both in severe cases of inflam- matory dian'hrea and in choleraic diarrhoea, where collapse and exhaustion are extreme, the child falls into a condition which reseml)les in some respects meningitis. It has been called " spurious hydrocephalus." The child becomes almost completely unconscious, the head may be retracted and the limbs rigid, there may lie