FRACTURES 354 rule for the prognosis of repair that the more mariied the crepitus the more likely is there to be bony union, whilst great mobility at the seat of fracture, with only a little muffled crepitus, points to a complete separation of the two ends of the broken bone and to the intervention of a piece of the surrounding muscle or fibrous tissue. These conditions are likely to lead to the formation of a false joint unless the ends of the bones are exposed, the intervening tissue is removed, and the fragments are secured to each other by mechanical means. The musculo- spiral nerve is so closely attached to the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove, that it may be injured either at the time of the accident by the violence causing the fracture or by the spicules of broken bone, or, as is more often the case, by the nerve becoming involved in callus splint, also made of Gooch, as in Fig. 10, which reaches as far as the back of the wrist. The rectangular splint can be made easily by boring four holes and threading strong string, as in the Diagram." The bandage must be applied over the splint and to the forearm first with the elbow bent at a right angle. The actual seat of fracture should not be covered with the bandage. This bandage should end above the elbow. A second bandage should then be applied round the splint and humerus above the fracture, and whilst it is being applied the limb should be gently extended until it is of the same length as its fellow. The measurements are made from the lower and back pai't of the acromion, where a sharp edge of bone can be felt to the point of the olecranon. As soon as tlie splints have been applied, the hand and Figs. 8, 9, 10.—Simple splints for fractures of the sliaft of tlie Immerus made out of Goocli's " kettle-liolder " splinting. (Chiene and Dobie.) during the process of repair. As a rule the paralysis remains unnoticed until the splint is removed, when the patient complains of wrist- drop with impaired power of supination, accom- panied by atrophy of the extensor muscles and loss of sensation in the skin supplied by the radial nerve. The application of electricity may be serviceable in some of the slighter cases, but unless improvement is marked and rapid it is advisable to cut down upon the humerus at the seat of fracture and free the nerve from its bony sheath. The indications for treatment of a fracture near the middle of the shaft of the humerus are to fix the arm—whilst slight extension is kept up—in such a manner that the forearm may be flexed and slung without obstruction to the circulation at the elbow. This is best effected by applying a well-padded rectangular wooden splint along the inner side of the arm from the axilla to the finger-tips, with a Gooch's kettle- holder splint upon the outer side. Chiene recommends the following simple and satis- factory method :—" Take two Gooch splints, shaped as in Figs. 8 and 9, pad them well, and bind them on with a roller bandage. The notch at A (Fig. 9) is to avoid pressure upon the internal condyle, and the one at B (Fig. 8) fits the forearm, which is held at a right angle to the upper arm by means of a rectangular wrist are to be slung in a small arm-sling, that the weight of the forearm may help to maintain extension, and so diminish the tendency to shortening. There is so real a danger of delayed union going on to the formation of a false joint after fracture of the shaft of the humerus, that it is best to keep the arm in splints until complete repair has taken place, that is to say, for three weeks in children, and a month or five weeks in adults. In cases of delayed union the arm must be again secured for a further period of five weeks, complete immobility being main- tained by means of a poroplastic or plaster of Paris dressing, fixing the shoulder as well as the elbow. Some further operation is necessary when it is clear that the humerus is not going to unite in spite of prolonged rest. Many methods have been employed with success, but perhaps the most usual one is to expose the ends of the bone, to refresh them by removing the fibrous tissue which covers them, and by then uniting them in the best possible position either with stout silver wire or by means of steel screws. Bony union takes place in rather more than half the cases treated by operation. Supracondylar Fracture. — Fractures of the lower end of the humerus are very numerous, but the majority involve the elbow joint and are discussed already (p. 45). A transverse