86 EMBKYOLOGY, HUMAN features presented by embryos of the beginning of the third week is the presence of what has been called the dorsal flexure (seen well in Minot's Embryo, No. 195, and in His' Embryo Lg). By this term is meant the bending of the column of primitive segments in such a way as to form a deep dorsal concavity, possibly in order to accommodate the long back of the embryo. Minot says about this {Human Em- hryology, p. 313, 1892): "the facts indicate that the back is too long for the somatopleure at the side of the body, and that it finds room ... by becoming concave; later it springs into a new position of equilibrium by becoming- convex ; it is possible that the change from the concave to the convex position is very abrupt, and it is probable that the time of its occurrence is very variable." This flexure may sometimes owe its existence to accident, but I agree with Minot that His' observations prove it to be normal in certain instances at least. From the teratologist's point of view, its presence is particularly interesting, as it is apparently maintained permanently in some monstrosities {e.g. in iniencephaly and exomphalos). In order to complete our survey of the state of the embryo at this epoch, we must now glance at its caudal extremity. The prolonga- tion of the body of the embryo by which it is attached to the chorion has now become a distinct stalk (Bauchstiel, body-stalk, allantoic stalk, later the umbilical cord). On account of the bending forwards of the caudal extremity of the embryo, the origin of the Bauchstiel likewise comes to be situated more on the ventral aspect. The stalk contains at this date the allantoic arteries and veins, and the allantoic diverticulum from the archenteron. It is appreciably nearer to the wide stalk of the umbilical vesicle, but it has not yet come into contact with it. Embryo at the End of the Third Week We form our visual image of the human embryo at the end of the third week after impregnation from the study of the specimens of (;hiarugi. His (Embryos, Rf, M, BB, and Lr), Allen Thomson, Ecker, Hecker, von Baer, J. Miiller, and R. Wagner. Organogenesis is still proceeding at a very rapid rate, for the embryo at the end of the third week differs in many particulars from the embryo at the beginning thereof; and we have not nearly enough obser- vations of human embryos of these ages to enable us to fill up the gaps in our knowledge of the means by which one stage passes on into the next. It is undoubtedly a wonderful week {hebdomada mirabilis) in the history of the embryo; all the story of embryological develop- ment is wonderful, but the third week is so essentially a week of beginnings that it arrests our attention, fascinates us, and finally amazes us by the variety and complexity and rapidity of the changes which supervene upon these beginnings. When the first rudiment of an organ or part has appeared, it is not so difficult or so surprising to follow it in its progress into its mature form ; but to see it emerging in the first instance out of a sort of pre-embryonic chaos, that it is which startles, astounds, and almost stupefies us. Had not one of the writers of old time a dim adumbration of all this when he wrote these words ? Thine eyes did see mine unperfect substance, And in thy book were all my members written, Which day by day were fashioned, When as yet there was none of them. To return to the description of the embryo at the end of the third week, it may be stated generally that all the systems and parts which were found indicated at the beginning of the week are now much further advanced in de- velopment, while some new parts have for the first time become evident. The umbilical vesicle is now attached by a relatively much smaller base to the ventral aspect of the body than formerly, so that we may reasonably begin to speak of the pedicle of the umbilical vesicle or yolk-stalk; the vesicle itself has become pear-shaped. It is still growing, indeed it con- tinues to increase till the end of the fourth week, but its rate of growth is slackening. The embryo measures at this age from 2"66 mm. (His' Embryo M) to 3-2 mm. (His' Embryo BB), or even to 4'2 mm. (His' Embryo Lr). The measurements of the whole chorionic vesicle may be 7'5 mm. x 8'0 mm. (His' Embryo M), or 11 mm. x 14 mm. (His' Embryo BB), or 12 mm. X 9 mm. (Ecker's Specimen), or 12 mm. x 12 mm. X 9 mm. (Chiarugi's Specimen). The head projects well beyond the umbilical vesicle, and shows a slight twist to left or to right; this twist is part of the spiral form which the whole embryonic body has assumed, the caudal end exhibiting a twist to the opposite side as compai-ed with the head. There are now three (or four) branchial grooves. The mouth is relatively large; it is deeper than at the beginning of the week on account of the rupture of the oral plate; it communicates, therefore, with the fore-gut (Fig. 12). On each side of the mouth at its upper corner can be seen the maxillary process from the first branchial arch or mandibular process, Avhich is also very evident. The pharynx is still wide, and four pouches can be easily recognised ; each pouch lies between two branchial arches. A new development is the presence of a small pro- jection on the ventral floor of the pharynx in the middle line ; this is the tuberculum impar of His; and from it arises part of the tongue. With regard to the nervous system, it must be noted that the medullary or neural canal is now closed in its whole extent. The fore-brain, which has become quite distinct from the mid- brain, is divided into two parts, the secondary fore-brain (prosencephalon or telencephalon)