399 Frost-bite.—Prevent, by wurm clothes and absence of moisture. I^atient should eat much fat and avoid alcohol. When actually frozen, the part should be most carefully thawed with cold or snow water and gentle friction. Gradu- ally raise temperature around patient. Elevate if oedema. Render, if ganfi'renous, aseptic witli dry appli- cations. Amputate early. For the milder forms, as in chill)lain, the same treatment must be adopted, and painting with fairly strong solutions of car])olic acid, or belladonna and collodion, or the old-fashioned brandy and salt mixture, are amongst the best remedies. Acute spreadiiu/ Gam/rene.—The point in this disease is to remember not to wait for a line of demarcation, but to amjjutate as soon as possible. The siioulder or hip operation must be chosen, and care must be taken not to soil the flaps. Stimulants, incisions, and baths will be necessary. It is a most fatal disease ; about 5 per cent recover. Noma. — If in mouth, antiseptic washes, sanitas, and boro-glycerine. Then scrape with Volkmann's spoon, or destroy with actual cautery or pure carbolic acid, remove dead bone. If recovery take place, Thiersch-Grafting or plastic oj^erations will be required. Iron, quinine, and stimulants will be necessary. If in genitals, then baths of sanitas or boracic acid, ;«id powder with iodoform. Gannister Disease.—A morbid con- dition of the lungs due to the inhalation of particles of dust, common in stone masons, especially " gannister" workers ; silicosis or pneumonoconiosis. Ganser's Syndrome.—A symptom complex or combination of symptoms, including disturbance of consciousness, amnesia, hallucina- tions, senseless answers to questions, and physical disturbances, described by Ganser ; it is gener- ally associated with hysteria. It is fully described in Julius Hey's book, Dus Ganfierschc Symptom, Berlin, 1904. Gaol Fever. See Typhus Fever {Etio- logij). Garden Cities.—(Jarden cities are pro- posed in the hope of ameliorating the conditions of the working class, who, in towns, are under certain disadvantages; they are to be con- structed in the country and are to have the best liygienic arrangements possible. The first Garden City, that at Letchworth, near Hitchin, is now (1906) in progress of construction, and has a population of over IGOO. The great difficulty to be anticipated will doubtless be the disinclination of the working man to leave his urban siu-roundings for such Garden Cities. Gardiner Browne's Test. See Ear, Examination of [llearinij Tests, Tuning-Forh) ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non - Suppurative Disease {Diagnrjsis of Middle front In ternal Ear Disease). Gardone Riviera. >SVr Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian Lakes). Garfield's Filter.—A method for the disposal of sewage, consisting of a tilter bed of coal, well washed, and 4 or .5 feet deep. Gargarismus.—The act of gargling. Garg'et.—A specific mammitis in the cow. See Milk {rathrjloe/ical. Diseases of Cows). Garg^le.—The application of a liquid (con- taining an astringent, demulcent, or cleansing medicine) to the back of the throat, by taking it into the mouth, throwing the head well l)ack, and forcing air through it by expiration. See Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis {Treatment) : PRESCRIBIN(i. Garlic, Oil of. See Allyl; Asafcetida. Garrod's Thread Test.—The excess of uric acid (in gout) as revealed by the incrus- tation of a thi'ead suspended in blood serum (obtained from a blister), to which a few drops of acetic acid have been added; the value of the test has been weakened by recent investi- gations. GarrulitaS Vaginae.—A disagreeable condition in which gas, often bad - smelling, passes from the vagina; it may be due to relaxation of the vulvar structures, and then atmospheric air is first sucked into the canal and then expelled again, sometimes witli an audible sound; in other cases it may be due to fistulous communications with the intestine by which flatus gains access to the vaginal canal ; in the former cases a plastic operation on the perineum is required, in the latter the fistula must be closed (if jjossible). Gartner, Duct of. See Generation, Female Organs of {Urethral Canal). The name is often spelt eiToneously (rdrtner. Gas. /See Asphyxia (Caewes); Suppuration {Gas-prodlieiiKj Micro-oir/aiiisms i7i Ft/s); Urine, Bacteria in {Fneumaturia, Gasformim/ Organ- isms). Gases. See ^Medicine, Forensic {Irrespir- able Gases); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OF {General Symptomatology, Local SympAoms, Flatulence). GaSSerectomy.—Excision of the Gas- serian ganglion, a somewhat serious operation recommended in the worst cases of trigeminal neuralgia.