56 ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF seventy-five good joints, twelve and a half stiff, and twelve and a half flail, in one hundred cases. Erasion of the Joint.—In tuberculous disease of the elbow-joint in children it is often possible, and whenever possible better, simply to excise the diseased tissue than to perform a classical excision. The joint is approached by a posterior median incision, or by a transverse incision, and the steps of the operation are similar to those of excision, stopping short at removal of the articular bony ends. The implicated synovial membrane is better cut away than scraped away. The operation may also be done by two lateral incisions (Watson Cheyne) which are carried down to the capsule of the joint on each side, avoiding the ulnar nerve on the inner and the posterior interosseous nerve at the lower part of the outer incision. The muscles are to be detached from the condyles, the lateral ligaments divided, and the capsule, freed from its surroundings, cut from its attachments to the bones. The ends of the bones can now be protruded, examined for any focus of disease, and replaced ; the wound then sutured, drained if necessary, and dressed. Passive movement should be begiui when the wounds have healed, as it has been noted that good results as regards movement have been obtained without early movement being practised. The results of erasion as compared with ex- cision are more satisfactory in respect to subse- quent shortening. After erasion there is little or no shortening, and the development of the limb is very slightly if at all impaired. The same cannot be said after excision when there is necessarily always some shortening varying from two to four inches, with a corre- sponding want of development in the whole limb. Ankylosis is more frequent after erasion than after excision. Elder Flowers.—The water of Elder flowers {Aqua Samhuci; dose—1 to 2 fl. oz.) is used to flavour medicines; the flowers come from the Sambucus Niger, and they contain a resin, a volatile oil, and valerianic acid. See Sambuci Flores ; Prescribing. Elecampane. •— A composite plant {Inula Helenium), known also as the Horse-heal, having bitter aromatic properties, and once used as a tonic; also, a sweetmeat flavoured with the above; the root, by distillation with water, yields helenin (CgHgO), inulol (C^jHjgO), lactone or inulic anhydride (Cj^HgoOg), alantic acid (CjjHgjOg), and alantol (C20H32O). Electrical Chorea. See Chorea {Electrical); Dubini's Disease ; Hysteria {Motor Disorders); Spasm (Varieties, Paramyoclonus Multiplex, Diagnosis). Electricity. General Introductory .... 56 Forms of Electricity in use— Static Electricity .... 57 High Frequency Currents ... 58 Faradism . . . . .58 Treatment . . . .59 Galvanism ..... 60 Reaction of Degeneration . . 62 Treatment . . . .62 Use in Gynaecology . . . .64 Sinusoidal Ctirrent . . . .64 The Electric Bath .... 64 Dangers of High Tension Currents . 65 See also Balneology {Radiation Baths); Burns and Scalds {Causes); Constipation {Treatment, Massage, and Electricity); Diabetes Insipidus {Treatment) ; Electrolysis ; Eyeball, Injuries OF {Injuries by Strong Light); Facial Nerve, Paralysis of {Electrical Reactions of Muscles); Hydropathy {Electric Baths in Rheumatoid Arthritis, etc.); Hysteria {Treatment, Electric); Indigestion {Treatment by Electricity) ; Medi- cine, Forensic {Death from Lightning and Elec- tric Currents); Muscles, Diseases of {Myotonia Congenita {Electrical Reactions); Myasthenia Gravis {Myasthenic Reaction to Electricity); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Symp- toms, Motor, Electrical); Paralysis {Family Periodic, Symptoms, Electrical) ; Paralysis {Landry's Paralysis, Symptoms, Electrical Re- actions) ; Paralysis {Anterior Poliomyelitis, Symptoms, Reflexes) ; Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Nerve); Skin, Pigmentary Affections {Bron7Ang); Spinal Cord, Medical {General Symptomatology, Electrical Reactions); Tabes DoRSALis {IVeatment, Electrical) ; Tetany {Symptoms, Motor, Electrical Reactions); Tum- ours, Inoperable, Treatment {Electricity) ; Uterus, Non - Malignant Tumours {Fibroids, Electrolysis); X-JiAYs{Iligh Frequency Currents). The value of electricity as an adjunct to the practice of medicine is variously estimated according as it is used for diagnosis and prognosis on the one hand, or for treatment on the other. Most physicians will easily allow the immense aid it may give in the accurate diagnosis and prognosis of certain nervous diseases, while it is comparatively few who are at all enthusiastic as to its beneficial effects in treatment. The fault lies partly in the method of its administration, which is too often placed in incompetent or careless hands, and in no attempt being made to accurately measure the dosage, as would be considered a sine qua non were any drug being- used. Weak batteries and currents of homoeo- pathic strength are often iiaed, and when no good result accrues "electricity" is said after- wards to have been tried and found wanting. It is, then, of the utmost importance that the greatest care should be exercised in its adminis- tration, if an opinion is to be expressed as to its