178 ERYSIPELAS erysipelatous area a ring of linimentum iodi, about half an inch wide. This ring is applied about one inch from the margin of the affected skin, the limit of the disease being reclconed by the tenderness on slight pressure which is usually found to be well in front of the red area. Several coats of the iodine are painted on one after the other dries. When any doubt exists as to whether the limit of the disease has been reached a second ring is applied about an inch beyond the first. The painting should be repeated for two or three days, even although it has never been crossed by the erysipelas. Scarification of the skin in front of the spread- ing margin doubtless acts in the same way, but is painful and necessitates a general anaesthetic. The injection of carbolic acid under the skin has not been satisfactory. 2. Systematic antiseptic precautions in deal- ing with wounds, blebs, etc., will tend to pre- vent infection with pyogenic bacteria. 3. The most soothing local applications are ichthyol ointment (1 in 6) applied on lint and renewed daily ; thiol in 20 to 40 per cent acque- ous solution painted over the whole of the reddened area and for some inches beyond it several times a day; or simple lead and opium fomentations. After the inflammation has ceased, and while the desquamation of the epidermis is going on, the part should be smeared daily with a mildly antiseptic and soothing ointment, such as ichthyol, eucalyptus, or weak boracic acid to allay the itching which is often troublesome, and to pi'event the dissemination of germ-laden scales. 4. General treatment consists in administering a sharp mercurial or saline purge at the outset, and attending to all the other emunctories. Quinine in two-grain doses eveiy four hours is useful; but the value of perchloride of iron is doubtful. It frequently deranges digestion and often produces constipation. A full fluid dietary is necessary. The antistrej^tococcic serum of Mar- morek promises to be useful in counteracting the toxiues in this as in other diseases due to the streptococcus. In this country the experi- ence of its action has as yet been small and not altogether encouraging as to results, but those who have used it most abroad speak favourably of it. An initial dose of 20 c.c. of the serum should be injected under the skin of the abdo- men, and further doses of 10 c.c. may be given every 12 hours till the temperature comes down. 5. Special symptoms, such as delirium, sleep- lessness, nephritis, or other complications, will be treated on general principles. Suppurative complications must be met by early and free incisions, with drainage and the use of antiseptic dressings frequently renewed. Erythema. Localised Erythemata . . . .179 Erythema multiforme . . . .180 Types of Eruption 180 Duration ..... 181 General Symptoms and Complica- tions ..... 181 J--' 1 jLi vjri.'iwojo • • • » • 182 Pathology and Etiology 182 Treatment ..... 183 Erythema pernio {Chilblain) 184 Erythema induratum .... 184 Erythema elevatum diutinum 184 Erythema serpens .... 185 See also Bromism {Cutaneous System); Chorea {Complications, Erythema Nodosum); Derma- titis Herpetiformis {Types, Diagnosis); Dia- betes Mbllitus {Symptoms, Complications, The Skin); Dressings {Salicylic Acid, Iodoform, etc.); Drug Eruptions {Erythematous); Gout {h-re- gidar. Cutaneous System); Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Initial Lesions); Influenza {Effects on Different Systems, The Skin); Iueprosy {Clinical Features, Lepra Tuherosa); Lupus Erythematosus ; Mal- ingering (Varieties, Cutaneous); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Etiology, Erythema Nodosum) ; Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal {Symjj- toms. Skin Lesions); Muscles, Diseases of {Polymyositis Ila^morrhagica) ; Nerves, Mul- tiple Peripheral Neuritis {Symp)tomatology); Pellagra {Symptoms, Shin ErujAions); Pem- phigus (Pem^^Ai^ws Vegetans,Diagnosis); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Erythema of Fauces); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Erythema Nodosum); Rheumatism in Children {Sympdoms, Skin Affections) ; Rheu- matism, Chronic {Clinical Features, Erythema) ; Sclerodermia {Diffuse); Scrotum, Diseases of {Elephantiasis Scroti); Skin, Tuberculosis of {Erythema Indurat%i,m); Skin, Bacteriology {Erythema); Small-Pox {Symptoms, Prodromal Bashes) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases {General Symptomatology, Remote Sym2)tojns); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Antidijyhtheritic Serum, Results); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Cutaneous System). The term Erythema should properly indicate merely a redness or hypera3mia of the skin. Since, however, the name has been given to a variety of eruptions, most of which also show either serous exudation or cellular infiltration of the skin, it is now used in a manner which is completely arbitrary and justified only by custom. All attempts at a natural classification must be at present unsatisfactory, on the one hand because there are still such formidable gaps in our knowledge of the I'elationship be- tween allied forms, and on the other because a number of completely independent diseases are also collected under this name. The method adopted here, therefore, will be to give, first, a short description of those forms which are the result of local irritation and are of limited ex- tent; secondly, to discuss the generalised erythe- mata ; and, thirdly, to describe those diseases,