ENTEROPTOSIS 124 Treatment. — The treatment of enteroptosis can merely be rational. The displaced organs must as far as possible be supported from with- out ; best done through the ajjplication of a belt round the abdomen in such a way that the pressure exerted is greater below than above. The nature of the material used dej^ends on the subjects treated ; some find one kind irritating, some are rendered uncomfortable by others. The material used is immaterial, provided it be not of india-rubber (for this soon loses its elasticity), if it suffices to maintain the requisite pressure without inconvenience. Massage of the abdomen, fractional dieting, rest in a re- cumbent posture, or with the legs and pelvis raised, as Eccles has shown, and irrigation of the rectum and sigmoid, are all measures which may prove efficacious. Gimzburg has recommended the administra- tion of fresh yeast equal to either a pea or a bean in size, thrice daily, so as to generate gas in the stomach, inflate that organ, thereby fixing its position, and, by its increase in size, helping to support the other viscera, until what time they have acquired a lessened proclivity towards change of position. This method of treatment is not applicable if the stomach be dilated as well as ptosed. Symons Eccles has found the use of apj^aratus designed to keep the patient at rest in an in- clined position, with the head low, the feet high, of service. Surgical Treatment.—Stengel and Bej'ea have obtained good results by so suturing the gastro- hepatic omental attachments and the gastro- phrenic ligament that they wei'e shortened. Enterorrhaphy. — The closure (by sutures) of an intestinal wound, or the fixation of the intestine to another structure. EnterorrhexiS. — Intestinal laceration or rupture. EnterOSpa-Sm.—A purposeless tetanic contraction of the intestine whereby it is con- verted into a hard cord, affecting the colon more often than the small intestine, and apt to be confounded with appendicitis. See H. P. Hawkins' paper on the " Reality of Entero- spasm and its Mimicry of Appendicitis " {Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i. for 1906, p. 65). Enterostomy.—The making of a per- manent opening into the intestine {e.g. in cases of stricture). The word enterotomy is sometimes restricted to the cases in which the opening is temporary. Entoderm. See Endoderm. Entomere. — In embryology entomere signifies one of the cells which go to make up the endoderm or hypoblast layer of the blasto- dermic vesicle. Entomozoaria. See Nose, Foreign BoDiES, Parasites {Leeches, Centij^edes, Earwigs, and Ascarides in the JS^ose). Entoparasite.— A parasite (intestinal worm) living in the interior of the body of its host. Entophyte. — A plant parasitic in the body and causing a disease, such as Madura-foot or Mycetoma, and (perhaps) cancer. EntOZOa.—Animals living parasitically within other animals. See Parasites {Ectozoa and Entozoa). Entropion.—An inversion of a cutaneous margin, such as the eyelid with the eyelashes, as opposed to ectropion {q.v.). See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Trachoma, Com2)licatio7is; Pem- phigus. Sequel) : Eyelids, Affections of {De- fects in Position, Entropdon). Enucleation.— The separation and re- moval of a tumour without much cutting (rather by shelling it out); also the excision of an organ, such as the eyeball. See Eyeball, Injuries of {Penetration, Treatment). Enumeration.—In vital statistics eww- meration refers to the decennial coiniting of the population. See Census ; Vital Statistics {Population). Enuresis.— Incontinence of urine, noc- turnal or diurnal. See Urination, Disorders of {Incontinence); see also Belladonna ; Hypnotism {Treatment of Enuresis). Enzymes. General Nature, Composition, and Actions of Enzymes . . . . . .125 External Factors influencing their Action . . . . . .126 Purity 126 Dry V. Moist Medium . . . 126 Temperature . . . . .127 Oxygen and other Gases . . .127 Acids and Alkalies . . . .127 Special Hydrolysing Enzymes acting on Carbo- hydrates . . . . . .127 Diastatic Enzymes . . . .127 Inverting Enzymes . . . .129 Acting on Glucosides . . .129 Dissolving Albumin . . . .130 Pepsin . . . . . .130 Trypsin . . . . . .131 Papaiin . . . . . .131 Other Enzymes .... 131 Coagulating Albumin . . . .132 Rennin, etc. . . . . .132 Fibrin Ferment . . . .132