EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 72 First, it may be stated with a large degree of confidence that the main progress of events and changes in Embryology is from the simple towards the complex and from the general towards the special; there is a trend towards elaboration, and from a homogeneity which is at any rate apparent even if it be not real there arises a heterogeneity which is both evident and real. From the comparatively simple-looking impregnated ovum comes the superlatively com- plicated embryo. From the successive divisions of that wonderful unicellular organism come all the tissues and organs of the still more wonder- ful multicellular organism. To the series of changes which are thus induced and in which we see the constant trend towards an increasing complexity the name ontogenesis has been given. It has, it is true, been employed in a somewhat wider sense ("the origin and development of the individual living being"), but it will be convenient to use it here as indicating the changes in the impregnated ovum by which it becomes a fully formed embryo. As this progressive differentiation is going on, genera- tion after generation of cells comes forward and plays its part, being always represented by a yet more numerous progeny of cells, and so ontogenesis may be regarded as a great genealogical tree (Delage, Les Theories stir rheredite, 1895). In this genealogical tree, however, the successive generations do not coexist, but one gives place to the next and is indeed represented by it, for its cells have divided to form it. Second, the heterogeneity which is produced in the pi'ocess of ontogenesis is of two kinds. In one of these the differences are seen in the cells themselves; they grow unlike one another; there is a histological differentiation. In the other the differences are visible in the arrange- ment of the cells into organs; they are built together in different ways into organs; there is an organogenetic differentiation. There are different sorts of cells, and they are arranged in diffei'ent sorts of ways. Third, the startlingly divergent results found in the oi'gans of the fully formed embryo may probably all be ascribed to differences in the rate of growth of the tissues composing the various organs and parts. In this way the manifold twistings and overlappings and separations and approximations which are seen in all embryos before their parts settle down into their permanent relationships are to be accounted for. A greater rapidity of growth of one part will cause a projection outwards or inwards at that part; a slowly growing part will find itself surrounded, built in, so to say, by the more active neighbouring areas; two organs at first far from each other may come into contact if both grow at a quicker rate than the body as a whole, they may even do so if one only grows faster, but then the meeting- place will not be the same. We speak in a loose fashion of the movement of various parts of the embryo in development, but the idea conveyed is erroneous if we mean by it that one organ without altering its rate of growth approaches another or passes away from it. Fourth, there is a specificness in the onto- genesis of different types of animals. The embryos of different animals do not travel by the same route to reach their later stages ; there is a wide diversity between their ontogenetic processes, how wide we do not probably fully realise as yet. Even when the fully formed organ or part in two species of embryo seems to be exactly similar, it does not apparently follow that it has reached this state by the same series of alterations. The embryo of the chick differs from that of the mammal in the details of its development; further, each has an amnion, but there is good reason to believe that it is not formed in the same manner in each. This prin- ciple cannot be too clearly kept in mind; for in the past it has been neglected, and what was observed in the chick embryo was regarded as proven also for the human embryo, with results which were disastrous so far as accuracy was concerned. Fifth, as a general rule, the higher an animal is in the zoological series the more complex is its ontogenesis. At the same time the progress towards complexity need neither be uniform nor constant. The highest of one group of animals may have an ontogenesis much more complex than the lowest of the group next in order above it. There is a specificness even in this matter, and there is no complete chain of types, repre- senting a regular sequence of ascents. Sixth, there is a general principle which may be stated in several different ways, and which has given rise to an immense amount of dis- cussion. It has also been called the "great law of biogenesis." It may be enunciated in this way — that ontogenesis never follows a simple and direct route, but reaches its end by detours (" ces detours de revolution," Delage). In the forming of the completed embryo there are stages passed through which apparently serve no useful pvirpose ; there are organs which appear and disappear again leaving sometimes rudiments which confessedly are dangers to the organism ; some of these transitory organs have a temporary use, but others seem to have none at all. The higher vertebrate embryo, for instance, has three sets of urinary organs—the pronephros and its duct, the mesonephros and its duct, and the metanephros and its duct; and yet the necessity for some of them is not apparent. Further, it has for long been noted that many of these "detours" or temporary organs and parts distinctly recall the stages or appearances seen in animals lower down in the zoological scale; and so it came to be thought that in ontogenesis there is a sort of recapitula-