69 EMACIATION Leucocyth^mia {Symptoms); Lung, Tubercu- losis OP {Constitutional Symptoms, Enmcia- tion); Neurasthenia {Sym,ptoms); Oesophagus {Groivths, M(iUgnant) ; Pancreas, Diseases {Cancer, Symj)toms) ; Rectum, Diseases of {Cancer); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases OP {Cancer of the Stomach, Symptomatolofiy) ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours op the. Embalming'.—The prevention of decay in (lead l)()dics ; nowadays it is carried out by injecting various fluids into them, such as solu- tions of sodium chloride, alum, arsenious acid, glycerine, methyl alcohol, or boiling water. Embelia.. — The berries of Embelia rihes and Kiiihilia robusta are used in dozes of 1 to 4 dr., to provoke the expulsion of tapeworm ; they are official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the IJritish Pharmacopoeia of 1898. Embolism. See also Air-Embolism; AlcohoIjIsm {Acute, Diagnosis from Embolism); Brain, Affections op Blood-vessels {Cerebral Embolism); Haemorrhage ; Heart, Myocardiuji AND Endocardium {The Embolic Process); Hemi- plegia; Infarction; Lungs, VascularDisorders {Pulmonary Embolism) ; Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications (Varicose Veins, Thrombosis and Embolism) ; Puerferium, Pathology {Sudden Death, Embolism) ; Spinal Cord, Medical {Morbid Anatomy, Vascular Lesions). —By embolism is meant the carriage and im- paction of a foreign body in some part of the vascular system, the impacted substance being- called an embolus. Almost any organ in the body may be the site of its arrest. Embolism may also occur in the lymphatic vessels. The clinical features and points of practical import- ance in connection with embolism in the brain, heart, lungs, retina, kidneys, intestines, liver, and spleen will be referred to under their respective headings. The object of the j^resent article is to give a short general summary of the subject. Varieties of Emboli.—The most usual com- position is a small part of a thrombus or a fragment from an endocarditic vegetation. In rarer cases it is composed of a spicule from an atheromatous plate, air, fat, cells, wdiich may be parenchymatous, as liver or marrow cells, or tumour cells, bits of tissue, pigment granules, bacteria, and animal or vegetable parasites. Air emboli will be separately discussed under injuries of the neck, and fat emboli will be described under that heading. Site.—Emboli are carried along by the general blood-stream until they liecome impacted in a vessel too narrow to permit of their further passage. This usually takes place in the general arterial system, the pulmonary arterial system, or in the branches of the portal vein. Occasion- ally it is met with in the systemic veins, and is then called a retrograde venous embolism. An example of this form is the arrest of an em- bolus in the pulmonary vein, resulting from the presence of vegetations on the mitral valve or a thrombus in the left auricle. Reference must also be made to a form of atypical embolism, of which several examples have been described which have been found to be due to a patent foramen ovale. This allows of the development of embolisms somewhere in the arterial system, the embolus being derived fx'om the right side of the heart or venous system, and getting into the arterial system without passing through the pulmonary circulation. The fact that this can occur serves to explain certain cases where the size of an embolus has excluded the possibility of its having passed through the pulmonary capillaries. Results. — Tiie results vary according to whether the embolus be aseptic or septic. If it be aseptic, the pathological changes and clinical features are simpler in comparison with the results following one of a septic nature. In the case of a simpAe embolism the blocking of the vessel is followed by necrosis of the tissue whose blood-supply is arrested. The necrosed area is known as an infarction, the size and shape of which vary with the particular organ and size of vessel affected. The colour is opaque, white, or yellowish, unless hfemorrhage is added to the necrosis, wdien it is described as hfemor- rhagic. In the kidney and the retina the infarct is nearly always pale, while it is as constantly hasmorrhagic in the lungs and intestines. In the spleen and the heart it may be either red or white. When pale the periphery of the infarction is congested. The engorge- ment, whether peripheral or general, depends on a re-establishment of the collateral circulation and not on a venous reflux. The proper tissue elements of the organ undergo necrosis, the rapidity varying with the sensitiveness and vitality of the tissue. Later, the degenerated parts undergo absorption, with the formation of a cicatrix resulting from the inflammatory change which develops ;dl round the infarct. In the case of infarction in the brain and spinal cord there is not a sufficient quantity of coagul- able substance to make the area hard, and the parts undergo collitiuative necrosis. The results of a septic embolus are the forma- tion of a small pyasmic abscess. In cases of acute infective endocarditis an eml>olic aneurysm is sometimes produced, most commonly in the cerebral or mesenteric arteries, this aneurysm being due to the action of the bactei'ia on the inner wall of the vessel. Clinical Features. — These necessarily vaiy widely; embolism of the coronary arteries may produce almost instantaneous death, while on the other hand an embolism of the spleen may produce hardly any symptoms, and may have no clinical significance whatever. Some cases have been recorded in the thoracic and abdominal aorta: in the former cases, sudden death usually resulted ; in the latter,