255 FALLOPIAN TUBES when the uterine end remains open, the secretion may escape in great quantities from the vagina (Doleris's case), a form of " hydrops tubse profluens." A large papilloma of the tube may prove absolutely innocent; on the other hand, recurrence, when the primary growth was histologically innocent, has been reported (Kaltenbach). Primary cancer of the tube seems to be, at least as a rule, a malignant degeneration of a papilloma. About thirty genuine cases have been collected. A hydro- salpinx invaded by a cancer developed in the ovary must not be mistaken for a primary tubal cancer. Papilloma usually develops in the prime of sexual life, cancer towards the meno- pause. Beyond the development of a pelvic tumour the symptoms of papilloma are very indefinite. In cancer a watery or sanious discharge has frequently been observed. The only treatment for papilloma or cancer of the tube is removal. When a suspicious tubal tumour is bilateral it is safest to remove the uterus as well as the tubes. Sarcoma of the tube is extremely rare; two reported cases bear the authority of Sanger. A case of Deciduoma maligimm has been published. Falmouth. See Therapeutics, Health Resohts {Eii(ili^h). False Corpus Luteum.—The corjDus luteum of menstruation, or the yellow body which forms in the ovary when ovulation is not followed by pregnancy. See Menstruation ; Generation, Female Organs op {Ovaries). False Membrane. See Diphtheria. Falsetto. See Physiology, Respiration (Voice, Singing). Falx Cerebri. See Brain, Physiology of {Anatoi/iica!); Meninges op the Cerebrum (Andtoijit/). Fames.—Hunger, especially in such ex- pressions as fames canina or bovina, which signify unnatural or voracious appetite or bulimia. See Appetite {Increase) ; Bulimia. Family Spastic Paraplegria. See Paralysis {S/iitf^tlr Paraplegia, Familial). Famine Fever. See Relapsing Fever {Si/nom/ms). FangfO.—An application applied locally at a temperature of 98° to 120° F. in rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, muscular paralysis, etc.; it is said to be a mud, containing iron, sulphur, magnesium, and lime, and is obtained from some of the Italian lakes ; fangotherapy is the treatment of disease by means of it. Farad ism. See Electricity {Magneto- Electricity). Farcy. See Glanders. Fareol.—A proprietary preparation, which acts as an antipyretic and analgesic. Farre's Tubercles.—The superficial nodules of secondary cancer of the liver. See Liver, Diseases op {Secondary Malignant Disease). Fascia. Anatomical and Physiological . . 255 Fascia in various Regions . . . 255- Injuries ...... 256 Diseases ...... 256. D'tipuytren's Contraction . . . 256. Cont. of Plantar Fascia . . . 258 See also Deformities {Plands and Fingers, Congenital Contractio7i); etc. Definition.—A fascia is a fibrous envelope binding down muscles or enveloping them in different regions. Superficial and Deep FasciyE.—Immediately beneath the skin is a more or less closely-woven layer of areolar tissue containing a varying amount of fat, and known as the superficial fascia. It is in parts capable of division by the dissector's knife into two layers. The external of these layers is practically continuous over the surface of the body. The internal layer some- times dips down and becomes attached to deeper structures, e.g. the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia is attached to the inferior border of the triangular ligament. The deep fascia immediately covers the muscles, and sends processes which invest them and enclose them in partitions. The tendons of muscles assume the expanded form of "aponeu- roses," as in the case of the abdominal muscles, where the aponeurosis of the external oblique constitutes the deep fascia of the abdomen. Structure.—Both superficial and deep fascije are composed of areolar tissue. In the former the bundles of fibrous tissue are closely and irregularly interwoven, and it contains numer- ous fat lobules. In the deep fascia the fine bundles of connective tissue are disposed for the most part in one or two direction.s, and form sheets of fibrous tissue. Functions.—The fibrous tissue of the deep fascia is exceedingly strong and tough, and yet perfectly flexible, but it is almost entirely in- extensile ; and it therefore maintains the parts which it connects in apposition against any severing force short of that sufiicient to rupture it, while its flexibility permits of easy motion. Surgically the deep fascia limits or bounds in- flammatory changes and pus until the process becomes so acute that the fascia softens and sloughs, and then sudden extension takes place. Fasci.e in various Regions.—In the head and neck numerous fascite are described,—the