258 FASCIA and the fingers strengthened as much as possible without force. Hfemorrhage, often free on account of the vascularity of the part, is then arrested and the wound in the palm closed by horse-hair sutures. In fourteen days the palm is completely healed and the fingers are mobile. The writer prefers the open method. Contraction of the Plantar Fascia.—Any cause which tends to unduly approximate the heel and heads of the metatarsal bones results in this contraction and gives rise to the so- called pes cavus. The conditions in which this form of fascial contraction are met with are talipes equinus, talipes equino-varus, talipes calcaneus, and some cases of Friedreich's disease. In all but the last it is permissible and often needful to divide the fascia subcutaneously in one or more places, and after fourteen days to stretch the sole. Fasciola Hepatica. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Parasitic Disease) ; Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes, FascioUdo}). Fasciotomy. See Deformities {Para- lytic, Treatment); Fascia. Fastlg^ium. — The stage of acme in fevers. See Temperature {Fever, Stage of Acme). Fasting'. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Metabolism during Fasting). Fat. 'See Arteries, Diseases of {Fatty Degeneration of Intima); Blood {Examination, Methods, Micro-chemical for Fat); Bone, Dis- eases of {Acute Osteomyelitis, Local Symptoms, Fat in Pus); Contusions {Clinical Features, Fat Embolism); Diabetes Mellitus {Treatments, Fats in Diabetic Diet); Diarrhcea {Character of Stools, Fat); Diet {Fats); Digestion and Metabolism {Absorption of Fats); Enzymes {Fat- splitting Ferments); Fat Embolism ; FiECES {Chemical Examination); Fractures {Compli- cations, Fat Embolism); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Morbid Processes, Fatty Infiltration); Hernia {Femoral, Fatty); Infant Feeding {Milk, Quality, Fat); Liver, Diseases OF {Lardaceous Liver); Liver, Physiology of {Functions, Regulation of Supply of Fat); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Pulmonary Embolism, Causes); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {J^eo- plasms. Fatty); Micro - Organisms {Bacteria, Fat-splitting Ferments); Milk {Examination, Estimation of Fat); Muscles, Diseases op the {Muscular Degenerations, Fatty); Pancreas, Diseases of ; Peritoneum, Tumours of {Fatty); Physiology, Tissues {Fat); Physiology, Blood {Fats); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Energy-Value of Fat, etc.); Pregnancy, Phy- siology {Nutrition); Sclerema Neonatorum {Fat Sclerema) ; Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Origin of the Skin-Fat, Excretion of Sebmn); Stomach and Duodenum {Digestion, Fats). Fat EmboBism means the impaction of minutely subdivided oil globules in the smallest arteries and capillaries of the lungs and other organs, with consequent embolic obstruction and its effects. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.—In the tissues each fat cell represents liquid matter eirclosed in a membrane. These membranes may be ruptured by any injury producing laceration of adipose tissue, the oil escaping in the form of minute globules. These enter the circulation by means of the torn veins, and also by the lymphatic vessels, whether they be ruptured or not. After fractures the absorption of oil globules from the bone marrow is favoured by the increased tension and by the fact that in the bone the torn ends of the veins remain open. Fatal fat embolism, though rare, is almost always due to extensive fracturing of long bones. But the condition probably occurs to a greater or lesser degree after all fractures, and may be seen after amputations, joint resections, crushes, and other injuries of bones. In rare cases it may occur after forcible straightening of deformed joints, abscesses, especially acute osteomyelitis, widespread subcutaneous injuries, and injuries to fattily degenerated tissues, e.g. the liver, as in Zenker's case. The condition may also be found in some cases of diabetic coma (Hamilton Starr), but in these cases the fat embolism may be stimulated by post-mortem changes in the liptemic blood. In the blood, and especially in that of the pulmonary artery, small clear shining drops of fat may be visible to the naked eye, and the blood has often a peculiar oily appearance. [It is stated that in diabetes the oil globules are combined with granular matter, and more minutely subdivided than when they are de- rived from bone marrow.] The oil globules, whatever their source, are carried to the right ventricle, and then become impacted as emboli in the finest arteries and capillaries of the pulmonary system. Venous congestion of the lungs occurs in consequence, and there may be hcsmorrhages on the surface and in the sub- stance of the lungs, which are usually very (edematous and may be atelectic in parts. In some cases the bronchi are filled with frothy fluid, and the pleurae contain bloody serous fluid. The other organs are in some cases quite healthy, but owing to fat embolism in them may show venous congestion and capillary haemorrhages. The brain and kidneys are more often affected than the liver. Fatty degeneration of the myocardium has been ob- served and ascribed to plugging of vessels and scanty capillary anastomosis, while congestion in the right ventricle is due to obstructed pulmonary circulation.