ELECTROLYSIS 67 Tlio former is a dilatation of the lirancliew of an artery, most commonly the temporal, has nothing to do with capillaries, and is singularly amen- able to electrolysis. The latter is a cavernous metamorphosis of capillaries, in which great caverns communicate backwards with enlarged arteries, forward with dilated veins, and which more than any other angioma resists cure l iy elec- trolysis. An artery if occluded remains so, and its occlusion often involves the atrophy of a considerable extent of the tumour. In short, I have never failed to cure V)y electrolysis any cirsoid aneurysm, and several have required only one operation. On the other hand, a vein easily reproduces its lumen, and great caverns and dilated veins are not readily obliterated whether by action on their walls or on the con- tained blood. I have given up several aneur- ysms by anastomosis in despair during my early experience. Other forms of angioma may all with patience be cured by electrolysis. 2. Aneurysm.—There is a class of aneurysm, viz. the arterio-venous, which has in some re- spects an affinity to the aneurysm by anasto- mosis of which we have been speaking. The murmur, the close association of arteries and veins, and the singular changes in the latter, are very similar in them both. But there is this important distinction, that the arterio-venous aneurysm being usually traumatic, has a com- paratively small arterial orifice, and that whether it lie an aneurysmal varix or a varicose aneurysm. Tills renders it likely that arterio-venous aneur- ysm may lie satisfactorily treated by electrolysis. My experience is limited to those on the smaller vessels, but all were successful. The proper course is to work about with a stout negative needle until you have found a place where by transfixion or lateral pressure you can more or less completely control the pulsation, and there maintain it till the electrolysis of the vessel is complete. It appears to me the best form of treatment in these difficult cases. Other forms of aneurysm in which electrolysis is worthy of consideration arc those which some surgc(.)ns have treated by injection of coagulants. Here we must take into accoimt the effect of elec- trolysis upon blood. At the positive pole there is produced a small, lilack, firm coagulum, at the negative a consideraV)le quantity of a loose, pinkish, white froth, and in addition to these a certain amount of thin, dark fluid consisting of serum and altered corpuscles. Comparing elec- trolysis with other coagulants it is evident that the fluid and frothy products will be prone, the first to disappear, the other to contract, but on the other hand there is no risk of deleterious substances being carried into the circulation, while by bringing the needles for short periods in contact with the walls that inflanmiatory action may be set up which Mr. M'Ewan aims at in his mode of treatment by needling. Of surgical aneurysms the gluteal and sciatic are those which most naturally lem.l themselves to treatment by coagulants, and in which I should prefer electrolysis as safest and l)est. But the aneurysms which liave been most frequently subjected to electrolysis are those like the aortic or innominate in which no liga- ture or other operation is practicable. More than thirty years ago, in studying this question, I came to the conclusion that the dangers of electrolysis lay in haemorrhage which came from cauterisation of the needle-track, and in inflam- mation of the sac which was caused by cauterisa- tion of the wall. The introduction of the vulcanite coating abolished these dangers. Elec- trolysis of aortic aneurysm at once became free from risk. But it was found that a large part of its beneficial effect had also disappeared, that as a coagulant pure and simple the electric current was not very efficient, and that a large part of the old cures and improvements had really been due to the inflammation produced hy uninsulated needles, which was also the source of danger. The problem, therefore, now is to attain that amount of irritation of the sac which will cause coagulation, but not severe inflamma- tion. Short opei'ations with very fine uncoated needles may attain our object in some cases, in others longer operations with insiilated needles, whose exposed points shall for short periods and at different parts bo made to touch the wall. The comparison in aortic aneurysm lies not with coagulants which are altogether out of court, nor I think with the introduction of foreign material like wire which must remain permanently, but with the plan of prolonged scratching with fine needles. Which is safer and more certain is not yet determined. When in other aneurysms electrolysis comes into competition with ligatiu'e, incision, excision, and compression, the relative certainty and safety must be determined for each case. If I were asked to put the matter generally, I should say that where practicable compression is our first resource, and that for such cases as the pop- liteal aneurysm ligature comes next, but tliat the safety of electrolysis brings it in after these notwithstanding its uncertainty. ?>. The other applications of electrolysis, as a depilatory (where it is very useful), in the treatment of stricture (where its advantage is very doubtful), and in the destruction of tumours, may be referred to their respective headings. Under the last head, however, I would mention one or two points which may probably otherwise escape consideration. I assume in the first place that, like all escharotics, it may be abandoned in malignant disease. In innocent tumours gener- ally its value may be determined not only '( priori, but also from experience in uterine filiro- myoma. I suppose one may say that electi'olysis tends to arrest but rarely succeeds in curing fibroids of the uterus, and that its action is slow and necessitates frequent repetition. It is