EPILEPSY 156 epilepsy. The acquired form of this disease occasions convulsions of a Jacksonian type, from cliaracteristic vascular and gummatous lesions; though the resulting brain injury may in some cases give rise to fits indistinguishable from true epilepsy. Epilepsy arising in the subjects of inherited syphilis is more probably due to a lowered nervous vitality than to a direct effect of the syphilitic poison. Masturbation is a symptom of the disordered cerebral state associated with some graver forms of epilepsy, and should not be regarded as a causal agent. Alcohol is one of the commonest factors in the development of epilepsy in later life. Fiirstner found that 31 per cent of his cases of delirium tremens were epileptic ; and Moeli obtained a larger percentage, viz. 36"4 per cent, though in the alcoholic insane only 10 per cent were epileptic. The alcoholic tendency and epilepsy are probably both the result of an inherited neurosis, and do not stand to each other in the relation of cause and effect. Symptoms.—The epileptic seizure may be studied under three headings :— 1. Le grand mal.—This is the common or typical form of epilepsy, from which the disease originally took its name—the "falling sickness." It is characterised by a sudden and complete loss of consciousness, in which the patient falls down, and universal convulsions. 2. Le petit nial, consisting of a momentary loss or obscuration of consciousness without evident muscular spasm. It is usually in con- nection with this form that the extraordinary acts known as epileptic automatism are per- formed. 3. Le petit mal with slight convulsion, the " epilepsia mitior with evident spasm" of Reynolds, an important group standing midway between the big and the little seizure, important chiefly owing to the localised character of the spasm, in which respect it resembles the con- vulsions of organic cerebral disease. (1) Le grand mal. — In considering the symptoms which precede an epileptic seizure, it is necessary to distinguish those which occur some days or hours before the attack—the prodromal symptoms—from those which im- mediately usher it in, the warning or "aura." There is great variation amongst the pre- monitory sympAoms. In those cases which present them they are usually of a mental character. Those who live with epileptics are able to tell precisely when the individual is likely to have a fit. On the one hand, some epileptics show abnormal moroseness, and a morbid irritability leading to frequent quarrels with their fellows, or a tendency to wander about in a depressed manner. Again, others show a liveliness which is quite unnatural to them; while in others distinct delusions may give indication of the approach of the fit. Headache, giddiness, and loss of appetite may take the place of the mental phenomena just described. The "warnings" or "aurse" of epileptics are numerous, and their clinical value is often great, in that they point to the particular area of the brain in which the discharge commences. They may be described according as they belong to the sphere of motion, common and special sensations. Amongst motor aurse are many curious, co-ordinated actions, such as running forwards, or backwards, or turning round ; one patient ran rapidly round the table and then fell down in a fit; another would stoop down and peep under the sofa (Reynolds); another would rapidly retrace his steps and then fall down (Gowers). Local motor phenomena, such as a definite muscular spasm in face, leg, or arm, though usually characteristic of organic cortical disease, is found in the variety of epilepsy designated "epilepsia mitior" with slight convulsion. In the region of common sensibility numerous abnormal sensations are described : tingling or numbness in the extremities; headache; a sensation as of something rising from the stomach (epigastric aura) ; giddiness, and feel- ings referable to the head are also frequent. Aurse involving the special senses are of great importance, as they indicate the commencement of the discharge in a special sense cortical area. There are a few rare cases on record in which a cerebral tumour occasioned a special sense aura associated with a " dreamy state." The fit is, for purposes of description, com- monly divided into three stages, which, however, fuse imperceptibly into one another. First, there is the stage of tonic contractio7i of the whole muscular system associated with loss of consciousness and the "fall" of the patient. The tonic convulsion is usually more marked on one side, so that the head and eyes are turned to one side; the body may be actually rotated upon its long axis, and the limbs of one side are frequently more convulsed than the other; there is fixation of the chest from spasm of the intercostal muscles and diaphragm, this being accompanied by a groaning sound of character- istic nature, the " epileptic cry " ; pallor of the face, followed by a congested appearance, with dilatation of the pupil and diminution in the force of the pulse, the whole period lasting about half a minute. This stage quickly passes into the second or stage of clonic convulsion. Here the muscles are jerked violently; the tongue may be protruded between the teeth and bitten, the bladder and rectum evacuated, and the eye- balls rotated in all directions; respiration is impeded by the irregular action of the respira- tory muscles; the patient foams at the mouth, and the face becomes livid, and the veins of the neck engorged. In a severe fit death seems imminent from asphyxia, but when events appear