(JLOVES, RUBBER 475 have been suggested, .such as a 4 per cent sohi- tion of gutta-percha in benzene or in acetone apphed as a thin coating to the hands of the operator and the skin of the patient (in the area of operation). Glucanth.—An excipient used in the making of pills; it contains tragacanth, glycerine, water, and syrup of glucose. GIUCOSa.mine.—A sugar-like substance containing nitrogen (Cj.HjjNHoOj); it occurs iu mucin and chondroitin. See Physiology, Tissues {Mucin, Cartilafje). Glucose.—The glucoses are sugars con- taining 6 atoms of carbon (C|;Hj.,0|;) and they are divided into the aldoses and ketoses ; ordi- nary glucose or dextrose or grape-sugar is an aldose, and fructose or la3vulose or fruit-sugar is a ketose. See also Blood {Si^ecial Methods of Examination, for Glucose); Physioloc4y, Tissues {Carbohydrates); Physiology, Blood {Plasma and Serum, Contents); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Food Stuffs yielding Energy); Post- MoRTEiM Methods {Media, Bacteriological, Glu- cose Agar). GluCOSideS.—Vegetable substances which break up into glucose and other things {e.g. alcohols and aldehydes) when acted on by fer- ments or acids; examples of glucosides are found in chinovin (in cinchona bark), in salicin (in salix bark), and in scillitoxin (in squill bulbs). Glue-Making^. — (ilue is made from hides, hoofs, horns, bones, etc., the residue of the process, which is called "scutch," gives off a very bad smell; glue-making is therefore regarded as an " offensive trade," and the " scutch" must not be allowed to accumulate but be removed at once (48 hours is the limit by law in England and Wales, 1875). GlUSidum. See Saccharin. Gluteal Artery. See K^wrxhu {Lower Limb, Gluteal Artery); Arteries, Ligature of (Wounds, Operation of Ligature). Gluteal Nerve. See Spine, Surgical Ai''FECTiuNS {Injuries of Sacral Plexus). Gluten. — A tenacious matter obtained from flour after the separation of the starch ; it is said to be a mixture of vegetable fibrin, casein, and glutin (an albuminous substance). Gluten Bread. /See Diabetes Mellitus {Treatment, Diet) ; Invalid Feeding {Cooliery ill. Diabetes, Gluten Bread, Flour or Farina). Glutol.—An antiseptic made of gelatin and formic aldehyde, used as a dusting powder; glutoform. GlyCSemia.—The presence of sugar hi the blood. Glycerin. See also Labour, Operations {Induction of Premature Labour).—A trihydric alcohol (C.,H.(OH).,) manufactured by decom- posing fats with alkalies or superheated steam. It is miscible with water and alcohol in all pro- portions, but not with ether and chloroform. Dose—1-2 Preparations — (1) Glycerinum Acidi Borici, known as Boroglyceride; (2) G. Acidi ('arbolici, 1 of phenol to 5 of glycerin ; (3) G. Acidi Tannici, 1 to 5; (4) G. Aluminis, 1 to 6 ; (5) G. Amyli, 1 to 8 ; (6) G. Bor;icis, 1 to 6 ; (7) (t. Pepsini, 5 grs. of pepsin in each 3- Dose~~\-1 3 ; (8) G. Plumbi Subacetatis ; (9) (i. Tragacanthse ; (10) Suppositoria Glycerini. On account of its excellent solvent properties and its demulcent action glycerine is largely employed as a medium for the application of drugs to the mouth, throat, and skin. It is used alone for chapped hands and slight excoria- tions in any part of the body. It is absorbed when rubbed into the skin, and is thus a con- venient vehicle to bring about the local action of anodynes and other remedies. By the mouth it is very frequently prescribed as a vehicle and flavouring agent. It also has a slightly laxative effect. Administered per rectum, either as a suppository or simply by injection of 1-2 3, it induces a prompt and satisfactory action of the bowels, and it is therefore used in the treatment of some forms of constipation. Glycerophosphates.—The glycero- phosphate of iron (dose, 1 to 5 grains) and the glycerophosphate of lime (dose, 3 to 10 grains) are non-ofticial preparations which are often used in the treatment of nerve-tire ; the}' may be combined with formates. Glyceryl.—The radicle (C.^H.) of glycerin; it is sometimes written Gl, but is thus rendered likely to be confounded with Gl the symbol for Glucinum or Beryllium. See Glonoin Oiij. GlyCOCholiC Acid. See Physiology, Food and Digestiun {Intestinal Digestion, Bile Acids). GlyCOCOl I.—Amido-acetic acid. See Physi- (.)L0gy, I^xchetion {Ilippuric Acid, Formation). GlyCOformal.—A disinfectant consist- ing of glycerine and a solution of formic aldehyde. GlyCOg^elatin.—A substance (consisting of gelatin, glycerin, and orange-flower water, coloured with carmine) used as a basis for throat lozenges. See Gelatin ; Prescribing ; etc. Glycogen.—A carbohydrate, a; (C^Hj^Oj), fomid ill the liver, in the muscles, and other tissues, in the embryo, the placenta, etc., which