GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DLSEASES OF 375 Aasociated witli this seizure there is a gi'cater or less degree of local peritonitis giving rise to rigidity of the upper segment of the right rectus muscle and tenderness over the gall- bladder region, particularly at a point about midway between the ninth costal cartilage and the umbilicus. During such an attack there is frequently some distension of the gall-bladder, but this can rarely be made out on account of the muscular rigidity and the excessive tenderness. Jaundice is not usually an accompaniment of gall-stone colic in these cases, though it may appear at tlie end of twenty-four hoiu's and persist as slight icterus for two or three days, [n such a case it is due to catarrh spreading to tlie common or hepatic duct, and interfering with the flow of bile. It is not commoir to find a stone in the motions after such an attack as that described above, but one or more may be found. It is important to remember that neither the absence of calculi nor a failure in tiie appearance of jaundice negatives the diagnosis of chole- lithiasis. While the description given above applies to a typical cholelithic attack, it must not be sujjposed that in every case the symptoms will be so definite or so severe; but even the milder seizvu'es, so-called " spasms," will be found to conform moi'e or less, and to differ only in the intensity of the individual symptoms. They may be repeated at intervals of a few days, or months may intervene between one attack of colic and another. In the intervals the patient may be (juite comfortable, but local examination will usually detect a point between the costal margin and the umbilicus where deep pressure will elicit tenderness, and if a gall- stone be impacted in the cystic duct a tumour may, be felt, due to the gall-bladder being distended with mucus. (c) Gall-stone m the Common Duct.—The symptoms of gall-stone colic, when the calculus is in the common duct, resemble in many ways those following on the impaction of a stone in the cystic duct, but diff'er in respect to the seat and distribution of pain and to the occurrence of jaundice. The pain in siich a case begins in the epi- gastrium, and though usually extending to the right scapula may radiate to the left side of the abdomen and through to the inter-scapular space. The tenderness will also be found most marked in tile middle line about midway between the umbilicus and ensiform cartilage. Jaimdice is usually present, but varies in intensity according as the stone does or does not completely block the duct, or become impacted at its entrance into the duodenum. AVhere the stone is too small quite to fill the lumen of the tube the jaundice will resemble that found in the last class, but its onset will be earlier, and it will last longer. Here, the immediate cause of the icterus is the obstruction due to the calculus, as well as that due to the inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane. Should the stone quite fill the duct, or should it become impacted at the entrance to the bowel, the jaundice will be persistent, and may become extreme. In that event there will be much greater chance of rapid deterioration of health, and greater difficulty in diagnosing the condition from malignant disease. There will also bo the usiuxl signs and symptoms of deep jaundice, and if long persisting especially, what from a surgical point of view is of great importance, a marked tendency to hfcmorrhage. As was found to be the case when a stone was present in the cystic duct, so here, between the seizures, if the jaundice is not persistent, the patient may be faii-ly well, though inter- ference with the general health is much more frequent than in the former case. Tenderness will always, or nearly always, be elicited if deep pressure be made midway between the umbilicus and the tip of the sternum, and the riglit rectus will usually be found rigid. In many cases infective cholangitis supervenes, a condition which will be described later, and not infrequently the infective condition spreads to the pancreas, producing a pancreatic catarrh or a chronic, subacute, or even an acute pancrea- titis (7) and (8). Diagnosis. — In uncomplicated cholelithiasis the diagnosis will not as a rule present much difiiculty. The situation, character, and dis- tribution of the pain and tenderness along with the accompanying symptoms will usually be sufiicient to render the case clear. The locality in which the stone is situated can, for the most part, he determined by noting the point of greatest tenderness. When tiiis is in tlie middle line the calculus will prolmbly be in the common duct, and the pain in the back will be more central; whereas if the stone is in the cystic duct the point of greatest tenderness will be somewhere along a line between the mnbilicus and the ninth right costal cartilage, and the pain will be felt to radiate to the right subscapular region. Should the pylorus, how- ever, be adherent to the cystic duct at the site of the stone, the pain and tenderness may radiate also to the left scapular region, and in such a case there will usually be some degree of dilatation of the stomach or other gastric symptoms pointing to this complication. If the common duct is quite blocked, jaundice will l)ecome intense, and there may be great difficulty in eliminating malignant disease as a probable cause of the illness. The previous history of attacks of "spasms," and particularly the account of severe pain at the onset of the illness, together with local tenderness, will be important indications tending to show that the disease is simple. On the other hand, in malignant disease of the head of the pancreas