FLEXILE COLLODION 300 Flexile Collodion.—A mixture of collodion (48 parts), Canada balsam (2 parts), and castor oil (1 part). See Collodion, Flexion. See Uterus, Displacements of. Flexor Response. See Babinski's Sign. Flexure.—A bending or curving of parts or organs of the body, either in the fully-formed state {e.g. hepatic flexure of the colon) or in antenatal life {e.g. cephalic flexure, neck flexure). See Embryology {Third Week, Dorsal Flexiire). Flies. /S'ee Myiasis. Flint's Murmur.—A murmur heard at the cardiac apex, corresponding to the latter part of diastole, occurring occasionally in cases of aortic incompetence, and probably produced at the mitral orifice. Flitwick. See Balneology {Great Britain, Chalybeate); Mineral Waters {Chaly- beate). Floating^ Kidney, Liver, Spleen, etc. See Enteroptosis ; Kidney, Surgical Affections {Movable and Floating); Liver, Diseases of {Hepatoptosis) ; Spleen, Surgery of {Movable); Stomach, Surgical Affections OF {Gastroptosis). Floccitation or Floccillation.— Picking at the bed-clothes, seen in low forms of fever and in delirium tremens; carphology {q.v.). Flocculus. See Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebellum). Flooding'.—Excessive bleeding, usually from the uterus in connection with labour or in menorrhagia and metrorrhagia from tumours (cancerous or fibroid). See Haemorrhage ; Labour ; etc. Florida. See Therapeutics {Health Resorts, American). Florida Fever.—A fever often regarded as typhoid or malaria, but possibly distinct from either; also known as "continued thermic fever," " country fever," and " inflammatory fever." See Sunstroke. Flower-Flies. See Myiasis. Flower Rash. See'Kv^mA^K {Diagnosis). Flowers of Sulphur. See Sulphur {Subliri latum). Fluctuation. See Suppuration; also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; etc. Fluids, Examination of Patho- logical. A. Physical and Chemical Introduction— Normal Lymph .... 30O A Transudate ..... 301 An Exudate ..... 301 Methods of Investigation— Chemical Analysis .... 301 Composition of Transudates and Exu- dates 302' Pericardial Fluid .... 302 Pleural Fluid 302 Peritoneal ..... 303 Cerebrospinal . . . .303 Cystic and other Fluids— Ovarian ...... 303 Hydatid 304 Hydrocele . . . .304 Spermatocele ..... 304 Blister Fluids, etc 304 Synovial ...... 304 Pus ■ 304 B. Bacteriological General Procedure .... 305 Intrathoracic Effusions . . . 305 Pleural 305 Pericardial ..... 306 Peritoneal ...... 30& Cerebro-spinal ..... 307 See also Ascites {Characters of Ascitic Fluid); Aspirator, Uses op ; Cryoscopy ; Cytodia- GNOSis ; Expectoration ; Ovaries, Diseases op {Ovarian Cysts, Fluid); etc. As most of the important pathological fluids are of the nature of transudates and exudates, it is necessary to compare with them the normal lymph transudations that exist in the body. The fluid which percolates through the tissues during life is necessary for their existence. It surrounds the individual cells and is collected in fissures, canals, and sacs of various forms. Of the latter the most important are the large serous sacs, the pleurae, peritoneum, and those surrounding the central nervous system. These are in communication with lymph-vessels, and these in their turn with blood-vessels. The tissue fluids are derived from the blood, and are used as media not only for the carriage of food constituents from the blood for the different groups of cells, but also for the transmission of substances formed in the tissues to other organs either for the nutrition of the latter or, if the bodies be effete products of metabolism, for ex- cretion. They naturally vary much in composi- tion in different situations. The lymph, as it occurs in the lymphatics, is however charac- terised by the very high percentage of water, saline taste, and capability of slow coagulation. It is much poorer in proteids than the blood plasma, contains very few white blood corpuscles,