FILARIASIS 285 The attacks may recur durinjj; the course of years, until for some unknown reason the parasite disappears. Blot has observed that the filaria may wander from one eye to another, and it has even been observed in the fingers. Plehn (1898) considers that certain sharply defined inflamma- tory cutaneous affections observed in Cameroon and German East Africa may be caused by this worm. The affected areas alter their position, and are accompanied by a peculiar creepy feeling, the absolute diagnosis being impossible unless the worm shows itself. The spots affected are 1^- or more inches across, and painful on pressure. They advance 2-3 cm. a day at the margin, the affection passing away spontaneously or after three to four days' vigorous use of mercurial ointment. MoKPHOLOGY.—The anatomy and life-history of the worm are imperfectly known. It usually measures 30-40 mm., and is about as thick as a fine fiddle-string. The cephalic extremity is blunt, the tail pointed, the mouth prominent and simple. The ripe eggs measure 35 by 25 /x, and contain embryos 210 /a long. Manson thinks F. loa may be the parental form of F. diuma. He describes and figures a male {see Plate) which measured 25 by 0'3 mm., had a simple mouth, and an incurvated tail bearing two rather short unequal spicules, and at least five pairs of papillae, four of these being very large. The chitinous integument is sprinkled over with numerous hemispherical bosses, as in the female. {See also Ludwig and Saemisch, 1895.) (iEOGRAPHiCAL DISTRIBUTION.—F. loa is indi- genous to the west coast of Africa (Guinea, Angola, Gaboon, Congo), its specific name " Loa " being that given to the worm by the Congo natives. It was transported by negroes to the West Indies and Guiana, in whose persons it reappeared during five to ten years after they had landed. It does not seem to have gained a foothold there. Treatment.—Excision. Manson states that some tribes of negroes drive the worm from the eye by placing some grains of salt in the con- junctival sac, whilst others remove it by means of a sharp thorn. Roth (1896) reports that the natives on the Niger apply a raw onion to the eye to drive away the worm. Plehn (1898), who observed the worm in Cameroon, used cocaine to lessen the pain in the eye, and, after excision, applied compresses, followed l)y lead- lotion. The local symptoms subsided in from three to four days. VIII. Filarla lentis, Dies., 1851. Syn. : F. oculihumani, von Nordmann, 1832.—Under this name are included nematodes, probably belong- ing to different species, and varying in size from 1-72 to 12-6 mm. Railliet considers that they may represent worms which have gained access to tlie wrong host, or such as have been arrested in their development. IX. Filaria inermis, Grassi, 1887. >5yn. : (?) F. palpebraUs, Pace, 1867, nec Wilson, 1844; peritoncei hominis, Babes, 1880; F. conjunctiva, Addario, 1885.—This worm, of which only the female is known, has been found in man, the horse and donkey. In the horse it has doubtless often been taken for F. eq^dna, according to Grassi. It was first observed by Dubini in the human eye, and has been found only three times. Babes found it encysted in the gastro-splenic omentum, and Addario encysted in the ocular conjunctiva. F. lentis (Dies.) may only be a young form of this worm. The latter measures 160 mm. by 0-475 mm. It is of a whitish or brownish colour, slightly flattened, threadlike,, and tapers somewhat toward both extremities, especially at the posterior end, the tail being incurvated at its extremity. The integument is traversed by longitudinal and transverse strife, which are, however, absent at the cephalic extremity. The mouth is very small, unarmed, and terminal. The anal aperture is 300 /x distant from the tip of the tail, the vulva 50-104 yii from the mouth. The eggs are hatched in the uterus; the free embryos measure 350 /x by 5'5 /X, and are slightly tapering in front, whilst posteriorly they end in a very fine tail. X. Filaria volvulus, (?) Leuckart.—Found in two tumours, the size of a pigeon's egg, removed from the scalp and chest of a Gold Coast negro. The tumours contained tangled masses of male and female filarite, measuring 60-70 and 30-35 cm. respectively, which are bathed in fluid containing sheathless embryos resembling F. nocturna and dinrna. The tumours seemed to communicate with the outside, not with the circulatory system. XI. Filaria Maf/alhaesi, Manson, 1897.— Foimd by Magalhaes of Rio de Janeiro, who described two adult worms, but not the embryos. The worms were included in a clot of blood said to have come from the left ventricle of a child's heart. They were white, opalescent, and tra- versed by delicate stria). The head was club- shaped, the mouth terminal, round, simple, without papilhe. The male measures 83 by 0-4 mm. (greatest breadth), has two spicules project- ing from the cloaca, distant O'll mm. from the tip of the rounded tail, which bears four pre- and three post-anal papilhe. The female measures 155 by 0'71 mm. (greatest breadth), has its vulva situated at a point distant 2*56 mm. from the mouth, whilst the anal aperture is found 0'13 mm. from the tip of the rounded tail. XII. Fi/aria lal>i<dis, Pane, 1864.—0]ily the female is known : it was fovnid but once, at Naples, in a small pustule on the inner side of the lip. The worm measured 30 mm., and had tapered ends, but slightly swollen quite at the posterior extremity. Mouth surrounded by four papilla;, anus distant 0'5 mm. from caudal end. Vulval aperture 2-5 mm. higher up. Uterus double.