EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF 221 be opened for the efficient examination of the cornea and iris ; when this occurs vesicles should be looked for upon the side of the nose, over the terminal branch of the nasal nerve (which gives off in the orbit the sensory root to the ciliary ganglion and the long ciliary nerves), to ascertain if it is probable that the cornea, iris, and ciliary body are involved. The vesicles soon begin to dry up and form scabs, which separate and leave depressed, characteristic scars as a permanent evidence of the attack. When the ciliary bi'anches are involved a keratitis or a kerato-irido-cyclitis ensues, which lasts for months, and may end, in sjjite of all treatment, in the partial or complete destruction of sight. The neuralgia which accompanies an attack usually subsides before the end of two years, but instances occur where tic-douloiireux is established, for the relief of which removal of the Gasserian ganglion has been prescribed. The cause of the inflammation of the Gasserian ganglion, the primary seat of the affection, is doubtful. Treatment.—The indication is to relieve pain, when the skin only is attected. In the in- flammatory stage, lint kept constantly wet with evaporating lead lotion is applied over the head and face, and narcotics are given. For the neuralgia, gelsemin, bromides, phenacetin, and allied drugs, as also quinine, iron, cod-liver oil, etc., are prescribed. For the treatment of the affections of the globe produced by herpes, see " Cornea," "Iris and Ciliary Bodies." Eczema.—When the lids are affected in an attack of eczema, due to some general cause, the treatment does not differ from that for the other parts of the body, except that liquid applications, which would irritate the conjunctiva, must be avoided, and be replaced by emollient ointments such as zinci cremor, acidi borici, etc. Eczema of the lids which is secondary to some affection of the eyes, such as is produced by the use of atropine or some of its derivatives, can be recognised by its occurrence during the use of the drug, and, usually, by the inflammation being confined to the face ; occasionally, however, the dermatitis may become general, and be followed by exfoliation of the whole of the epidermis, including the nails. The treatment consists in stopping the use of the drug and in changing it for another mydriatic, either duboisine or homatropine, and otherwise treating the case as one of general eczema. If at any future time atropine is again used, however long the interval may be, it is likely to produce a similar attack. Eczema, which is associated with, or secondarj' to, phlyctenular or catarrhal oijhthalmia, and is accompanied by a nasal discharge, is best treated by the application of a 1 per cent solution of nitrate of silver to the conjunctiva, skin, and anterior nai'es. After the discharge has been removed, the patient being ana;sthetised, the silver solution is ap^^lied vigorously to the whole of the raw surface, which is then covered with dilute nitrate of mercury ointment (1 part to 4 or 8 of yellow vaseline). The subsequent treat- ment consists in keeping the parts clean with a solution of borax and anointing them with the ointment. Abscess. — Abscess in the lid or eyebrow caused by the inflammation of a hair follicle, or associated with suppuration of the cellular tissue of the lid, does not re(iuire any special treatment, except that the incision to let out the pus. cannot lie made too soon, to prevent burrowing in the loose cellular tissue, which may lead to. destruction of the delicate skin of the lid. When periostitis of the margin of the orbit is. the cause of the inflammation, the abcess cavity must be scraped out with a sharp spoon and disinfected with perchloride of mercury lotion, 1 in 1000, to endeavour to prevent loss of bone and the formation of a sinus, which would lead to the displacement of the lids. {See Ectropion, p. 226.) Furuncle, carbuncle, and malignant pustule do not require special treatment on account of their being situated on the lids. Ulcers.—Tuberculous ulcer and lupus of the lids are recognised by the same characteristics which these diseases pi-esent elsewhere. They frequently extend from the palpebral conjunctiva and desti'oy a portion of the lid margin before reaching the skin, though they may be secondary to lupus of the lachrymal sac which has spread upwards from the nasal mucous membrane. The enlargement of the pre-auricular gland usually subsides when the disease is cured. Treatment.—The infiltrated area is scraped with a sharp spoon until the whole of the diseased tissue is removed. The parts are washed with perchloride of mercury, 0-1 per cent, or a chloride of zinc lotion, 4 per cent, and covered with an antiseptic dressing, which is renewed until healing is complete. When the ulcer is finally healed, any displacement of the lid may be remedied by a plastic operation. Syphilitic and vaccine ulcers of the lids do not require any special treatment on account of their situation. The differential diagnosis between hqjus, hard chancre, and vaccinia of the lids does not give rise to any serious difficulty when an accurate history of the case can be obtained. The slow progress, absence of hardness, and characteristic infiltration around the margin of the ulcer in lupus, render it difficult to confuse the condition with primary chancre of the lid, though the pre- auricular gland may be enlarged in both cases. If the diagnosis is doubtful for a time, the stationary character of the chancre at length followed by secondary symptoms will soon make it clear. The acute symptoms produced by vaccinia on the lids, its rapid subsidence, and its usual occur-