3G5 FRACTURES well as the toes touch the rectangular foot-piece, as even a little equinus is very troublesome to the patient when he begins to walk again. He must also make sure that the lieel pad is effective in keeping pressure off the heel, which easily gets sore. A well-applied splint, too, is comfort- able, and will prevent the spasmodic starting which is often a very painful accompaniment of fracture. The surgeon should have no hesita- tion in taking down the whole splint and re- adjusting the fracture, if tliore is the least real ground for complaint, within the first few days of the injury, and he must always be ready to readjust the bandages to accommodate any unusual amount of swelling. The splint may be abandoned on the twenty-first day in favour of the plaster of Paris case before described, but massage of the leg and ankle may be commenced a week earlier. The process of shampooing is particularly valuable in these cases, because the skin is apt to get dry and scurfy. It is better not to interfere with the l)uilie, which are often large and numerous. There are many cases in which it is impossible to get the fragments of bone into good apposi- tion, and it is then justifiable to undertake a formal operation, exposing the ends, wiring them, and imiting the wound so that it heals by first intention. Treatment of Compound Fractures of the Leg. —Compound fractures of the more simple variety should always be treated in the hope that they may heal aseptically, or at any rate with a minimum of constitutional disturbance. The surgeon shall first wash and disinfect his hands, and when a sharp fragment of bone protrudes through the skin it must be thoroughly cleansed with hot soap and water. It is then bathed in a solution of biniodide of mercury, which is first of a strength of 1 in 500, and afterwards of 1 in 1000, the Ijiniodide being somewhat more satis- factory than the perchloride of mercury. The fragment of bone is afterwards replaced—and the skin covering the shin is so thin and elastic that a comparatively large piece of bone leaves bxit a small hole when it lias been retui'ned to its normal position. The skin, both in the neighbourhood of the wound and for some dis- tance round it, must be cleaned and thoroughly disinfected by scrubbing it with a nail-brush, after lathering with soap and water. It is then washed with turpentine or methylated spirit, soaked for two minutes in a solution of biniodide of mercury in methylated spirits (1 in 500), and afterwards dressed with a piece of cyanide gauze wetted with a solution of 1 in 2000 biniodide of mercury. A layer of cotton wool is placed over the gauze, and the whole is kept in place by a bandage. The limb is then treated in the same way as a simple fracture, and, in a healthy person, it often heals without further trouble. It is better to enlai'ge the wound if there is any difficulty in reducing the fragment rather than bruise the skin and soft tissues by using violence. The fragment may be sawn off in extreme cases, and if thei'e is much bleeding and laceration the patient should be placed under an anassthetic and the parts thoroughly disinfected, the de- tached fragments of bone being removed, and the limb dressed in the manner just described. Severe compound comminuted Fractures with extensive destruction of the soft parts and injury to the vessels and nerves require amputa- tion. Fractured Fibula.—The upper end of the fibula may be fractured by direct violence, as by the passage of a wheel over the leg, the tibia escaping injury ; by indirect violence when the leg is so powerfully adducted as to put an extra strain upon the external lateral ligament, or by a sudden contraction of the biceps femoris muscle. The signs of fracture are the altered position of the head of the fibula owing to the upward displacement caused by the biceps, and the im- pairment of function due to pressure upon, or injury to, the peroneal nerve at the point where it winds round the head of the bone. The prognosis depends in great part upon the nerve lesions, which are either immediate or remote. Severe pain in the course of the nerve, with a burning pain referred to the foot, after an injury to the top of the fibula, is evidence that the nerve has been injured, whilst herpetic eruptions, ulceration, glossy skin, and the appearance of talipes equino-varus at a much later time, due to paralysis of the peronei and extensor muscles, would indicate that the nerve was seriously implicated, and would justify an incision in its coui'se to ascertain the cause. Inasmuch as the synovial membrane of the tibio-fibular articulation sometimes comminii- cates with the knee-joint, fracture of the upper end of the filiula is occasionally associated with some swelling and inflammation of the larger synovial membrane. The treatment consists in relaxing the biceps to keep the two fragments in good apposition, and the leg should therefore be kept with the knee bent to a right angle for a fortnight or three weeks, though if an incision has to be made to explore the nerve there is no reason why the two fragments should not at the same time be united with silver wire. At the end of three weeks the patient may be allowed to walk with his leg and knee enclosed in a plaster case. Fractures of the middle of tiie shaft of the fibula are generally caused by direct violence. They are either oblique, transverse, comminuted, multiple, or much more rarely incomplete. Simple fractures of the middle of the shaft of the fibula are sometimes very difficult to re- cognise, for the bone is well surrounded by muscle and the displacement is not great. Pain can be elicited locally by pressure, as well as by " springing " the fibula, that is to say, by hold-