478 GLYCOSURIA between small quantities of sugar and other substances occasionally found in the urine, a few words on the clinical tests may be of service. There are numerous tests for grape sugar in the urine, but the three most valuable are Fehling's solution, phenyl-hydrazin, and fermentation. By the employment of these three tests in the following manner and order, as a rule, grape sugar can be easily detected with certainty, even when only a trace is present. Fehlin<fs solution is the most convenient test. It is important to boil the test solution first: if reddish yellow oxide of copper be thrown down, or if a greenish turbidity be produced, the Fehling's solution has decomposed and a new specimen is necessary. If no change occur the solution is good, and a little urine may now be added, and the mixture boiled. It is important not to add too much urine (never more than the quantity of Fehling's solution employed). Also, the mixture should not be boiled too long. (If these precautions be not taken, a slight turbidity may occur when the urine contains a great excess of uric acid or urates.) If on testing with Fehling's solution no reaction be obtained, we may safely conclude that the urine is free from sugar in the clinical sense, and no further testing is necessary. If an abundant reddish or yellowish precipitate (copper oxide) occur on boiling the urine with Fehling's solution, the presence of grape sugar may be assumed, providing the precautions mentioned have been taken, and providing other signs of diabetes mellitus be present, such as increased quantity and specific gravity of the urine, diuresis, thirst, etc. But the difficulty arises chiefly when diabetic symptoms are absent, and when the only evidence of disease is the presence of a substance in the urine which reduces Fehling's solution. Often the reduction is slight: it may consist only of a greenish turbidity, occurring when the test-tube cools. Sometimes this islight change is due to sugar, sometimes to other substances which occasionally occur in the urine, and which reduce Fehling's solution, such as glycuronic acid, alkapton, uric acid and urates in great excess, lactose, pentose, etc. Hence some confirmatory test must be employed before a definite opinion can be given. The best two confirmatory tests are phenyl- hydrazin and fermentation. The following simple method of performing the phenyl-hydrazin test is of great service, and if a negative result be obtained we can safely state that the substance which caused the reduction of Fehling's solution was not grape sugar. A test-tube of ordinary size is filled for half an inch with hydrochlorate of phenyl- hydrazin (in powder) ; then acetate of soda (in powder or fine crystals) is added for another half- inch. The test-tube is half-filled with urine and heated directly over a spirit lamp (ivithout the use of a water bath). For two minutes the urine is kept boiling. The tube is then placed in the test stand, and twenty or thirty minutes later, if grape sugar be present, the deposit at the bottom of the test-tube is found, on micro- scopical examination, to contain needle-shaped crystals of a bright yellow colour. Often the crystals are arranged in sheaves or rosettes. If these crystals cannot be detected, the urine is free from grape sugar in the clinical sense, and no further testing is necessary. An abundant deposit of the crystals in the test-tube is in all probability due to gi-ape sugar. But lactose produces yellow globules with short spines, and glycuronic acid small yellow crystals. Hence when a positive result is obtained with the phenyl-hydrazin test it is always best to employ the fermentation test, which is the most reliable method. The fermentation test may be conveniently cai'ried out in the following manner:—Two ordinary test-tubes of equal size are employed. The same quantity of German yeast (weighed) is placed in the bottom of each (about of the tube is filled with the yeast). One test-tube is filled with normal urine, the other with the suspected urine. The mouth of each test-tube is closed with an india-rubber stopper, perforated with a short piece of glass tubing bent twice at right angles. The two test-tubes are inverted and kept side by side in a warm place, being- supported in a glass tumbler. In twenty-four hours, at the top of the test-tube containing the normal urine with yeast, a small bubble of gas will have collected. (This gas is given off by the yeast itself.) At the top of the tube con- taining the suspected urine with yeast, if grape sugar be present, a greater quantity of gas will have collected. The gas may occupy one-quarter, or one-half, or the whole of the tube, according to the quantity of sugar present. Any excess of gas in the tube containing the suspected urine, beyond the small bubble of gas in the tube containing the normal urine, will indicate grape sugar or other fermentable sugar with certainty. GiycOXyliC Acid. See Liver, Physio- logy OF {Allantoin). GiyCOZOne.—A proprietary preparation, believed to act as an antiseptic by reason of the ozone which it develops. Glycuronic Acid. See Phy'siology, Tissues (Car'<t7a(/e, Decompositionof Chondroitin); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Aromatic Substances, Glycuronates). Giycyrrhizae Radix. See Liquorice. Gmeiin'S Test. See Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Bile Pigment). Gnat Fever. See Malaria (Synonyms). Gnatiiaig^ia.—Pain in the jaw, usually of a neuralgic type.