102 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN later acquired one. They are probably derived from the Wolffian bodies ; but a part (medulla) has origin in the sympathetic nervous system. The heart and circulatory system are now well advanced in development. The auricles and ventricles are not yet fully separated into right and left chambers. The opening of the sinus venosus into the right auricle is guarded by right and left lateral valves, which prevent regurgitation of blood when the auricle con- tracts. At a later date the right valve becomes the Eustachian and Thebesian valves ; probably the left forms part of the auricular septum (primary). Even as early as the fifth week a trace of the secondary septum (or septum spurium) of the auricles can be made out lying to the right of the primary one. The auriculo- ventricular canal is divided into right and left auriculo-ventricular orifices by two structures known as the anterior and posterior endocardial cushions. The bulbus arteriosus is divided into an anterior or pulmonary and a posterior or aortic part by anterior and posterior ridges (anterior and posterior aortic septa), which fuse together while their lower ends unite with the interventricular septum. The resulting aortic part retains its coimection with the fourth left aoi'tic arch, which becomes the ascending part of the arch of the aorta; the pulmonary or anterior part is continuous with the fifth arch of the left side and constitutes the ductus arteriosus (or ductus Botalli), with branches to the two lungs. It is not known how this change in the relations of the pulmonary arteries, so that both arise from the fifth left arch, is brought about (Minot). The fifth arch on the right side atrophies ; the right fourth arch per- sists as the right subclavian and innominate arteries; the third arch on each side remains as the internal carotid. Now, therefore, the third and fourth arches and the vessels repi'esenting the first and second arches are all connected with the left side of the heart through the aorta, while the left fifth arch is brought into relation with the right ventricle through the pulmonary trunk. The segmental arteries and the vessels for the limbs doubtless undergo im- portant modifications during this week, hxit these are not yet clearly known. The arrange- ment of the veins is probably similar to that described for the fourth week; the origin of the vena cava inferior has not yet been clearly ascertained for the human embryo. The blood at this age contains only nucleated red blood corpuscles or erythrocytes. The sustentacular parts of the embryo show further developments at the fifth week. For instance, in the limbs the fibrous basis of some of the future bones can be recognised, and here and there chondrification has begun. In the pelvis, also, the three parts of the anlac/e of the OS innominatum (ilium, ischium, pubes) are present; so are the membranous ribs and clavicle, etc. According to Arthur Thomson (Cunningham's Text Book of Anatoviy, p. 180, 1902), ossification may be seen in the clavicle as early as the fifth Aveek. Meckel's cartilage is present in the mandibular arch. It must be admitted that there is much that is uncertain about human ontogenesis in the fifth week after impregnation. In this period take place several complicated rearrangements of parts; and just how these rearrangements are effected we do not clearly understand. This remark applies specially to the changes which occur in the branchial arches and clefts, in the pharyngeal poiiches, in the great veins of the abdomen and liver, and in the pleuro-peritoneal relations. We do not know how these changes take place, neither do we know with any degree of certainty when they occur. Consequently any attempt to place before the reader a chrono- logical account of the embryology of this period has to face the double difficulty of uncertainty as to the facts and ignorance regarding the dates. There is also the constant problem of the recognition of parts; for when one, so to say, loses sight of a structure in the embryo for a day or two it is not easy to recognise it again at a later stage in a new form and with new relations. The whole problem, therefore, becomes a very complex, involved, intricate, and perplexing one ; yet, in order to preserve unbroken the chronological account of human embyronic life, I felt myself constrained to put before my readers such facts as I could gather together from reliable authorities. They are few in number and obscure, but they must serve till further light has been thrown upon this feebly illumined part of ontogenesis. It may be said, in parenthesis, that the nomen- clature of embryology does nothing to render this obscure portion of the subject less dark ; in fact, the giving of two, three, or even four different names to the same structure is irritat- ingly confusing. Although there is much that is obscure about organogenesis in the fifth week, there is also not a little that is well known. The embryo begins to lose something of the exaggerated C shape that it had in the preceding week, and attains to the length of 1 cm., being now about one- fiftieth of the length of the mature foetus. Much has yet to be accomplished before the 1 cm. embryo is converted into the 51 cm. foetus, but it may be doubted whether any of the superadded centimetres are accompanied by such a marvellous exhibition of developmental activity as is this first one. Among the many phenomena of the week we must note the assumption by the Bauchstiel and yolk-stalk of a truly cord-like character, the transformation of the bud-like extremities into evident and segmented limbs, and the presence of a decided and indisputable tail. The face is now more face-like, having a lower jaw united in the