24 ECZEMA certain defensive structures. This protective mechanism, which plays a part of prime import- ance in the processes of eczema, consists of a fibrous meshwork covered externally by stratified epithelium. Whether this fibrous meshwork be dense or lax, and whether the epithelium is well formed or incoherent, are matters intimately connected with the liability of the individual to eczema. Daily observation teaches that any surface irritation is followed by a physiological thickening of the vascular net at the point of irritation. In other words, the irritation is followed in some cases immediately, in others after a short period of local antemia, by blood fluxion to the menaced part. All eczemas are in the main serous inflammations. We have not only blood fluxion, but exudation of plasma into the injured epithelium ; the process finally ending in the exfoliation, or throwing off, of the injured tissue. The skin exhibits a marked tendency to the production of localised inflam- mation, due to its fibrous stratified structure, which ofi'ers resistance on all sides to the escape of the exudation. It is the resistance offered by the layers of flattened horn cells to the free exit of the plasma which leads to the formation of vesicles and bullae. As we shall see later, this external resistance disappears under certain cir- cumstances. In such cases there is a free exit for the plasma, and vesicles are no longer formed. The manifestations of eczema at any parti- cular spot, at any particular time, or in any individual case, vary according to the following circumstances: (1) the pressure of the plasma exudate, and the degree of resistance offered to its escape to the free surface; (2) the position or region affected; (3) on the nature and extent of the injury to the epithelium; (4) the resis- tive power with which the skin can oppose the irritant. Each of these circumstances must be carefully considered. The Pressure of the Plasma Exudate and the Degree of Resistance offered to its Escape to the Free Surface.-—The pressure of the plasma is proportionate to its bulk. The quantity of exudate is closely connected with the nature of the irritant and the resistive state of the cutaneous tissues. From the clinical point of view it determines the so-called lesions of eczema. The low-pressure eczemas are dry, red patches with a strong tendency to localisation and delimitation. If the pressure rises a few degrees the exudate is sucked up by the epithelial cells, forming a thickening known as the papule. A still higher rise manifests itself as a droplet of plasma under the homy layer (technically known as a vesicle). In people of middle or later life the resistance of the hom cells below the knees is often so defective that the exudate, instead of being temporarily con- fined in the form of vesicles, oozes directly on to the free surface (eczema rubrum). In regions where the dermal mesh is loose and open, as in the near neighbourhood of the eyes or in the scrotum or vulva, the exudate finds readier access to the lymphatics than to the free surface, and thus produces the general swelling which is so characteristic of eczema in these regions. Special resistance is offered to the escape of the plasma in the palms and soles owing to the density of the horny epithelium. In these regions the exudate is apt to be re- tained for lengthy periods in the form of vesicles. ■ The accumulation and effort to escape may be accompanied by a sensation of burning and intense itching, in some cases even by a certain amount of constitutional disturbance. The Position or Region affected.—The skin in the extended relations which it is called upon to meet varies appreciably in structure and function in different regions. In some localities the sebaceous function is predominant (face, scalp, chest, back, prepuce, ears, meati), in others the formation of hair, while certain regions are characterised by the size, quantitj', and activity of the sudoriferous glands (palms, soles, axillse, bends of elbows, and knees). These anatomical factors are certainly capable of modifying the processes of eczema. The presence of large quantities of fat tends, as Unna has pointed out, to restrain the serous discharge in response to injuries in these regions. The excessive outpouring of sweat, by diminishing the inertia of the surface, in- creases the liability of the skin to injury and inflammatory reaction. The presence of hair in large quantity, while a security up to a certain point against injury, and therefore against serous inflammations, greatly retards recovery on account of the hindrances which it offers to the dispersion of the plasma. From the readiness of access which inflamed hair- follicles present to pyogenic organisms, the exudate in such regions is liable to become bacteriologically infected. Hence the purulent nature of the plasma so commonly found in eczema in hairy regions. On the Extent and Nature of Injury to the Epithelium.—The full discussion of this will be taken under the head of Etiology. Here I would simply point out the broad generalisation that the injury is the resultant between the irritant force on the one hand and the resistive force of the skin on the other. In some persons the skin is capable of resisting gross insults, while in others, with weak resistive power, comparatively slight irritants may result in severe injury. The Resistive Power of the Skin.—There is no more important cause in the development of eczema and in the modification of its manifesta- tions than the total resistive power which it pre- sents to irritants. This resistive power is the sum of many forces which we may conveniently con-