FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL 307 md microscopic characters coincide with those )f gonococci, the very fact that attempted cultures were misucceasful mny be regarded IS further presumption in favour of their dentity. In other peritoneal exudations there may )ccur streptococco, staphylococci, and even jneumococci, esjiecially when there has been an !xtension from an intratlioracic focus. Bacilli ^loselj' allied to Friedliinder's pneTmio-bacillus lave also been found, and the typhoid bacillus nay, though rarely, infect the peritoneum luring or after enteric fever. Mention should dso be made of actinomycosis and higher 'ungoid growths as occasionally productive of ibdominal inflammations and suppurations. In chronic peritoneal conditions the tubercle «\cillus plays an important part, but here the iiagnosis is made from the clinical phenomena )r from the morbid anatomy with greater certainty than coiild be afforded by a search for ;he bacilli themselves. Cerehro-sjnnal Effusions.—An acute or sub- vcute inflammatory effusion from the meninges jf the brain or spinal cord is almost invariably iue to the invasion of micro-organisms. An jxaniination in life is rarely attempted directly 'rom the intracranial exudate, but valuable in- 'ormation may bo obtained by means of lumbar □uncture, as in many forms of meningitis the ^pinal membranes are also affected. It has been suggested that, in cases where permission to examine the head has been refused after death, iumbar puncture may be allowed and the iiagnosis thus confirmed. First in importance and frequency is the tubercle bacillus, but, in the common form of tuberculous cerebro-spinal meningitis in children, the difficulty of finding the bacilli is often very great, even when after death all the cerebro- s)iinal fluid is collected. In lumliar puncture during life a considerable quantity of fluid is often obtained, but the diagnostic value of this operation is not very great. For in the first place the bacilli are scanty and hard to find, and in the second place, if the microscopic examina- tion of stained films does not reveal the bacilli, the diagnosis is usually completed by the post- mortem report before cultures can grow, or in- oculation of animals yield any result. Next in frequency and importance is the pneumococcus (Fraenkel), which produces, as a rule, a suppiu'ative exudation most commonly over the vertex of the brain, and may or may not be associated with an acute pneumonia. It is important to observe that the pneumococcus must be very carefully identified, not only by its morjjhological characters and staining reac- tion (including retention of stain by Gram's method), but also by cultural and experimental data. For other diplococci may occur in the cerebro-spinal exudate, notably the diplococcus intracellularis meningitidis of Weichselbanm, found especially in cases of epidemic cerebro- spinal meningitis, and a diplococcus described by Still in the condition which he designates "simple posterior basic meningitis of infants." In all pi'obability the latter is only an attenu- ated variety of the former, and the biological points of difference between them are such as would be indicated by corresponding differences in virulence. Morphologically they are indis- tinguishable, and each in its microscopic charac- ters, in its staining reactions (including loss of stain by Gram's method), and in its relation to leucocytes, closely resembles the gonococcus. Other organisms which may be found alone or in combination include the pyogenic bacteria, especially in the streptococcus, and also Fried- lander's bacilhis, the influenza bacillus (Pfeift'er), and other microbes of infrequent occurrence. The possibility of infection from the naso- pharynx by the ethmoidal air cells and cribri- form plate on the one hand, or by the Eustachian tube and middle ear on the other, must always be kept in view, and more particularly when the exudation is distributed over the vertex of the cerebral hemispheres. Of great importance also is the fact that bacteria may reach the cerebral by way of the spinal meninges, and that the latter are especially liable to infection, either from the pleurte and mediastinal glands, or from the peritoneum and abdominal glands, along the lymphatics that accompany the spinal nerve- roots. The frequency of infection by this channel has for long been pointed out by Greenfield in the ordinary form of tuberculous cerebro-spinal meningitis, and, in all probability, other forms of basal-meningitis arise in a similar way. FlukeS. See Parasites {Helminths, Trema- todes). Fluorescine. See Cornea {Bullous Affections, Deinlritie Ulcer, Staining ivith fluores- cine) ; Eye, Clinical Examination of {Cornea, Diagnosis of abrasion by staining with fluores- cine). "Flush Area."—The facial area which exhibits acne rosacea in cases of hepatic cir- rhosis ; it corresponds roughly to that involved in lupus erythematosus. See Liver, Diseases of {Portal Cirrhosis, Signs). Flushing's. See Climacteric Insanity; Menopause {Disorders); Menstruation and it3 Disorders {Menopause). "Fluttering." See Heart, Myocar- dium AND Enmiocardium {Si/mptomafolog?/). Flux.—A discharge, e.g. "bloody flux" or dysentery, menstrual flux or menstruation. Focus. See Physiology, Senses {Vision); Accom.modation ; etc.