FACIAL SPASM 237 and subsequently spreads to those under the control of the facial nerve, in the same way that, as I shall have occasion to jjoint out later, spasm beginning in the distribution of the facial nerve may subsequently overfiow to muscles presided over by some other nerve. Apart from the cases in which paralysis has ])receded the spasm of the muscles organic disease may be responsible for the atlection in several ways. In this category may be iiicluded cases in which there is pressure on the facial nerve by a tumour or aneurysm at the liasc of the brain, so too tiunours whicli cause a degree of pressure on the facial nucleus or tlie emer- gent fibres of the nerve, insufficient to cause paralysis, may nevertheless evoke spasm in the muscles supplied by the nerve, and a like result may come about in the case of a tumour or softening in the neighbourhood of the facial centre in the cerebral cortex. Trauma to the head during delivery or subsequent to birth ap})ears to liave been operative in some cases. Symptoms.—The subjects of the aftection are attacked from time to time by spasm of the facial muscles which causes much distortion of tiie features. The intensity and range of the spasm vary in different cases, but a typical attack consists in a succession of clonic contrac- tions which follow each other, at first it may be slowly, and then more and more rapidly, until they culminate in what looks like a tonic stage, which in its turn is followed by a series of clonic jerks whicli are usually separated from each other by longer intervals than those which con- stitute the first part of the attack, and the ter- minal contractions are also commonly of greater excursion. With tlic increasing interval be- tween the contractions there may be a pro- gressive diminution in the range of movement, but, on the other hand, the last excursion may be as great as any that has occurred at all during the attack. Instead of the clonic ele- ment being so definite, in some cases the attack is characterised by a sudden tonus, or if there be clonus it is so rapid as to escape detection, a quivering of the contracted muscles being alone seen, and, moreover, an attack of this kind may terminate as abruptly as it begins without any definite clonus being detected. Instead of the spasm taking eitlier of the forms already de- scribed, tliere is sometimes a single momentary contraction of the muscles which resembles the response to excitation of the facial nerve by a single induction shock, and this phenomenon is repeated at short, either more or less regular, or sometimes in-egular intervals. As has already been said, the whole or only some of the muscles supplied by the facial nerve are affected; when the latter obtains, the orbicularis palpebrarum and zygomatic! are those usually in action, and they are nearly always chiefl^^ involved, except that the levator labii superioris may usurp the place of the zygomatici in some cases. The explosion of nerve energy may appear to make its influence felt on all the facial muscles on one side simul- taneously, or the first manifestations may be definitely seen in one muscle from wiiich tlie spasm may spread to others, until the whole of the muscles supplied by one facial nerve are in a state of activity. Not only may the spasm begin in one muscle and subsequently spread to others, but it may be limited to certain of the muscles throughout the attack. The orbicularis palpebrarum is both tlie muscle in which the spasm most frequently begins, and that which is most commonly affected in the partial forms of facial spasm, the condition being then spoken of as blepharospasm, but other of the facial muscles may be similarly affected alone. Like the more generalised form of facial spasm, blepharospasm may be either clonic or tonic; the former variety is known as nictitat- ing spasm, and consists in a series of winking movements of the eyelids. When the spasm is tonic in character it may persist for only a few minutes, or there may be no relaxation of the lids for hours, days, or even weeks and months. Some reflex source of irritation is commonly oijerative in these cases, notably in connection with the ocular branches of the fifth cranial nerve. Trigeminal neuralgia sometimes appears responsible, in which cases pressure on the points which may be tender in trigeminal neur- algia may arrest the spasm. The clonic variety known as nictitating spasm may be only a symptom of simple tic (habit spasm), or it may be hysterical, while in other cases no causal in- fluence can be determined. The ordinary attacks of facial spasm, in whicli all the muscles supplied by the facial nerve are affected, are repeated from time to time at varying intervals of .from a few minutes to several hours, while the attack lasts a few seconds or some minutes. When fully developed the spasm causes partial or complete closure of the eye, wrinkling of the forehead, with eleva- tion or depression of the eyebrow, exaggeration of the naso-labial groove, drawing of the angle of the mouth outward and it may be also down- ward, with puckering and drawing up of the skin of the chin on the affected side. The spasm is usually unilateral, and when bilateral it as a rule begins on one side, and is commonly limited to the side on which it com- mences for some time before it spreads to the opposite side; moreover, it may only become bilateral in so far as the orbiculares, corrugators, or frontales are concerned,—muscles which may also be involved on both sides without any im- plication of the muscles of the lower half of the face. The latter muscles are rarely affected equally on the two sides except as part of a general bilateral spasm of the face. LTsually, though not invariably, the spasm when bilateral is most pronounced on the side on wdiicli it is