GOUT 521 on the whole been a very healthy woman; .she has had ten children. When thirty years old, and after the birth of her second child, she was the subject of periodic attacks of very severe pain in the sole of one foot. This pain would last from two to four hours, and completely incapacitated her. During the paroxysms the foot looked bloodless, and felt cold, and was usually treated by being- placed in very hot water, followed by elevation of the foot above the rest of the body. Tlie onset of these attacks could not be accounted for, but occasionally one developed after over- fatigue. Pains of a somewhat similar, although much less severe nature, are occasionally com- plained of now, but patient believes that these are prevented, or very much relieved, by the continuous wearing of a tight foot bandage, which she has worn for more than twenty years. The conditions resembled that now described as metatarsalgia (see vol. ii. p. 292). She has had several severe attacks of lumbago, which have usually occurred towards the end of the summer months, and have been associated in the mind of the patient as the penalty of indulgence in fruits of various kinds. This association has been present sufficiently often to attract her own attention, ljut it has not influenced her habits very much, and for the last five years she has quite expected the annual visitation, wliich, however, has been of a mild character. Her vaso-motor system has long been in an unstable condition. When fatigued, or more readily on dining, especially if the meal commence with a hot soup, a red flush (one or more) develops on the cheek, nose, or chin, and remains for some time. Of late years she has been siibject to very severe headaches, and about a year ago, patient came under my observation owing to the development of a small tophus over the sixth rib on the right side, which had burst quietly, and was exuding crystals of urate of soda. An examination of urinary and cardio- vascidar systems reveals no evidence of chronic kidney disease (sp. gr. 1016), but a careful con- sideration of her history and constitution led me not to lay much stress on the absence of external evidence of renal weakness. Her men- strual life had been characterised by frequent excesses, but never such as to call for special treatment, as she was fully aware of her plethoric habit of body. One thing that has probably saved her from a much more active manifesta- tion of the disease is that strict attention which she has all along paid to the function of the bowels. The constant use of an appropriate aloin pill and frequent reference to salines never allowed any important dci-angement in this respect. Patient is one of those gouty people who value medical advice only in a theoretical way, and keeps in the wake of knowledge gained by self-instruction, but her experience has led her within recent years to give up taking soup and meat to lunch, and to lessen the amount of sweets and fruits. Various aches, pains, and tender feet are readily induced by any indiscre- tion, and such is by no means an infrequent occurrence. What is the appropriate treatment? Owing to the long-standing nature of the disease, with the associated greater instability of tissue meta- Ijolism, and lessened power of resistance in the intestinal tract, the treatment will obviously differ in detail from any of those previously re- corded. It may be well, in the first place, to give in full the diet which she has taken and finds well adapted to keep her free from gouty manifestations. Breakfast.—Avoiding kidneys, steak, liver, and all made-up dishes, and only taking one solid, e.g. fish, of any kind (except salmon and fatty fishes which do not agree with her), one or two eggs, or bacon and egg; one breakfast cupful of freshly-made tea with not more than one piece of sugar. Toasted bread, Vienna rolls, or other bread (not too new or doughy), with butter. Marmalade or jam to be taken only in very small quantity, and even then not to be taken every day. Lunch, to be mainly vegetables.—Selections from the following: tomatoes cooked or plain, macaroni dressed in various ways, salads, celery, cauliflower au gratin. Bread, brown bread, Vienna rolls, or any form of un- sweetened biscuit; small piece of mild cheese, if desired. Small quantity of fruit, one of the following: an orange, raisins, apples, figs, dates, walnuts. Half an ounce of whisky in half a tumblerful of soda water. Afternoon Tea.—One or two small cups of tea, Avith a very thin slice of bread and butter, or a piece of very light cake. Very little solid be taken, and especially no rich cakes. Dinner.—The dinner to consist of three courses, to which fruit can be added, if not taken to lunch. The diet to be arranged on the following plan— 1 2 3 4 5 Soup Fish Soup Fish Soup Meat Meat Entree ^ Meat Fish Pudding Savom-y Pudding Pudding Savoury Fruit Fruit Care has to be taken that on the nights when meat is taken the soup should be of a lighter character, e.g. clear bi'own, rice, or fish soup. Simihu-ly on nights 2 and 4, the fish should be of the lighter kind, e.g. whiting, haddock, or sole. On the 5th night the soup can be richei-, e.g. oxtail or kidney with a light fish, or the soup may be light and the fish more rich, e.g. ' Sweetbreail. trijie, chickens, rabbit.