GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 4i0 ring; and each is in its course enveloped in a fold (the anterior) of the broad ligament. They prevent downward and backward displace- ment of the uterus, a circumstance which explains the rationale of the Alexander-Adams operation of shortening these ligaments in cases of inveterate prolapsus uteri. The broad liga- ments (ligamenta lata) are two double layers of peritoneum which pass outwards from the xiterus to the latei'al pelvic wall; perhaps it would be more correct to describe them as the mesentery of the uterus, for that organ really lies between the folds of peritoneum of which the ligaments are composed ; at any rate a part of each ligamentum latum forms a mesentery for the Fallopian tube (mesosalpinx). The base of the ligament may be represented as a wavy line passing outwards to the lateral pelvic wall at a point just in front of the sacro-iliac synchrondrosis; the upper (free) margin passes from the upper angle of the uterus outwards to a point in the ilio-pectineal line midway between the sacro-iliac joint and the pectineal eminence; the inner attachment is along the lateral border of the uterus from the upper angle almost to the lateral part of the roof of the vagina; and the outer edge is attached to the pelvic wall as low down as the level of the ischial spine. Three folds of the broad ligament have been recog- nised : an anterior, in which lies the round ligament (ligamentum teres); a middle, the mesosalpinx, in which are situated the Fallopian tube and the parovarium and vessels and nerves ; and a posterior, to which is attached the anterior margin of the ovary. The utero-sacral ligaments are two muscular bands which pass backwards from the upper part of the cervix uteri to the sacrum, and enclose the rectum on the way; in the anterior part of their extent they raise up the peritoneum of the pouch of Douglas into two folds, the recto-uterine liga- ments, which serve to subdivide the pouch into compartments. The utero-vesical ligaments are simply peritoneal folds which pass from the cervix to the posterior surface of the bladder and mark off a slight depression, the utero- vesical pouch. The ovarian ligament and the infundibulo-pelvic have already been described. Intermediate Organ : the Vagina. — By means of the musculo-membranous canal, the vagina, the internal genital organs are put in communication with the exterior; it may there- fore be termed the intermediate organ. It forms a slit in the pelvic floor, lined with mucous membrane, extending from the hymen to the cervix uteri, and lying between the urethra and bladder in front, and the rectum and perineum behind. AVith the woman in the erect posture the vagina makes an angle of about 60° with the horizon, and is therefore nearly parallel to the plane of the pelvic brim. When the bladder is empty the normal axis of the vagina forms with the long axis of the uterus a right angle ; but when the bladder is distended the angle becomes more or less obtuse. When the rectum is full the vaginal axis becomes almost perpendicular. Normally the vaginal walls are in contact, and a sagittal section of the pelvis shows it as a linear slit, while a transverse section reveals an H-shape ; it is correct to describe the vagina as a tube only when the finger or instruments are being passed up it, or when the foetus is being pro- pelled down it. A cast of the distended vagina has the form of a truncated cone, base upper- most. It has two walls, a lower or vulvar end, and an upper end, roof, or fornix. The anterior wall is the shorter, measuring 5 cm. ; the posterior has a length of 7'5 cm. The anterior wall has a somewhat triangular shape with the base above and the apex at the vaginal orifice ; and its surface is thrown into numerous folds, there being one median longitudinal ridge, the anterior column, and many transverse and oblique rugae rvmning off from it; these rugse are continued on the inner aspect of the hymen ; and they disappear to a large extent after parturition. On the posterior wall the rugae show a similar but less marked arrangement; this wall also has a triangular shape, but instead of being straight, as is the anterior, it has a sigmoid curve; like the anterior wall it is reflected upon the cervix forming part of the vaginal roof or fornix. The lower end of the vagina opens at the vulva between the labia, situated laterally, the hymen behind, and the vestibule in front; it is an antero-posterior slit. The roof of the vagina through the projection of the cervix uteri into it is divided in imagina- tion into four parts, called the anterior, posterior, and lateral fornices or fossae. These fornices, of course, only exist when the vagina is dis- tended ; the posterior is much the deepest. The relations of the vagina to surrounding parts are of considerable importance. Anteriorly it is coimected in its upper half with the bas- fond of the bladder, and with its neck by dense areolar tissue which forms the vesico-vaginal septum ; in its lower half it is intimately united to the urethra, which is indeed embedded in it, the two together forming the urethro- vaginal septum. Posteriorly the vagina in its upper one-fourth is separated from the rectum by the pouch of Douglas; in its middle two- fourths it is connected by loose connective tissue with the rectum; while in its lower fourth the perineal body lies between it and the rectum and anus. It is important to remember the relation of the posterior fornix to the peritoneal cavity, and it is noteworthy that sometimes the pouch of Douglas is deeper than normal, and may descend between the vagina and rectum almost to the perineum. Laterally the vagina is related to the leva tores ani muscles, and to the large venous plexuses. The lateral fornices are related to the bases of