107 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN heart the interventricuhir septum, the endo- cardial cushions, and the aortic ridges meet and are united by a thin membrane, the jmrs mem- branacea septi; thus the ventricles are separated. The sustentacular system shows marked pro- gress ; if the clavicle has not yet began to ossify, it niay show signs of doing so now ; ossification begins also in the lower jaw around ISleckel's cartilage ; the ribs and basis cranii are under- going chondrification; and cai'tilage is evident in the bodies of the vertebrae. According to some authorities the anlage of the spleen may be seen even at the fifth week as a thickening of the mesoderm (mesenchyma) on the dorsal surface of the mesogastrium ; according to others it is not recognisable till the eighth week. Tlie sixth week is, as has been stated already, tlie closing period of purely embryonic life. We expect, tlierefore, to find in it some slacken- ing in the rate of development, and some diminu- tion in the variety of organogenetic processes. There are fewer surprises of evolution; and there is a greater tendency for the constructive procedures to follow in their progression the lines that have been already indicated. The period of rapid transformations and of bewilder- ing rearrangements and alterations is past. In the extra-embryonic parts it is evident that the typically decidual environment has reached the culminating point of its functional importance and usefulness; ah'eady there are abundant signs that in future it is to be one part only of the caducal membranes (the decidua serotina) that is to pursue the path of elabora- tion and structural difTerentiation, while the others follow retrogressive ways. The prepon- derating impoi'tance of the chorionic villi of the chorion frondosum is becoming more and more evident, while the dwindling of the umbilical vesicle, its attachments, and its circulation is clearly recognisable. The ■placenta looms big in the immediate future of antenatal affairs. There has also been so marked an expansion of the amniotic sac and its contents (liquor anniii and embryo) that its walls are now close to those of the chorionic vesicle, and the extra- embrj'onic ccelom has disappeared. The embryo has lost a little more of its exaggerated C shape ; its abdomen has become more prominent and its tail less so; it has re- cognisably separate fingers, although its toes are not so far advanced ; the mouth and nose are shut off from each other externally, and so there is a face ; the eyes are coming round more to the front; the tubercles which go to form the external ear or pinna are grouping them- selves so as to shadow forth that structure ; and, at the otiicr end of the body, the genital tubercle, which is later to give origin to the penis or the clitoris, is recognisable. By an iirganogenetic rearrangement, the details of which are unknown to us, the entodermal cloaca has become transformed into the bladder and otlier parts, and an ectodermal cloaca open to the exterior has appeared. In the embryonic interior some further difler- entiations are in progress. The anlagen of the salivary glands, the thymus, the larynx, the kidneys, and perhaps the spleen have appeared; the complicated changes (possibly including ossification) which lead to the disappearance of Meckel's cartilage and the formation of the auditory ossicles have begini, and ossification has commenced in the clavicle. The intestinal coils have made their great rotation with result- ing complexity of arrangement of themselves and of their mesentery. The spinal cord begins to show traces of its mature division into grey and white matter, or at least into the anlages of the grey horns and of the white columns ; and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are forming. In the brain the signs of the great hemispherical expansion are still moi'e evident than in the preceding week ; the fossa of Sylvius with its adumbration of innumerable fissures and convolutions yet to be evolved is to be re- cognised ; and the pineal body and the anlage of the corpus callosum are present. Organogenetic Rearrangements Before I pass from this bi'ief sketch of de- velopment during the embryonic period to describe very shortly the neofoetal state, it may be well if I recapitulate shortly some of the more com2:)licated oi'ganogenetic rearrangements. The chronological method does not lend itself to the description of intricate phenomena of ontogenesis extending over prolonged periods, hence the necessity of recapitulation and group- ing. The embryological changes described in the following paragraphs are not all completed in the embryonic period of antenatal life, some of them indeed are in progress late in the foetal epoch, but they are placed in association for the sake of clearness and fulness. The Branchial Grooves and Pharyngeal Pouches.—The structures derived from these parts are : 1. From the first, the salivary glands, the external auditory meatus, the tympanic cavity, and the Eustachian tube ; 2. From the second and the neighbouring parts, the tonsils, the middle lobe of the thyroid gland, and the posterior third of the tongue ; 3. From the third, the thymus gland and a parathyroid ; 4. From the fourth, the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, and another jwrathyroid ; and 5. From the fifth, the little known j)0st- brancliial bodies. The Branchial Arches.—The osseoin^ and cartilaginous structures derived from them are : 1. From the first, the maxillary jjrocess and its derivatives (superior maxilla, zygoma of temporal, malar, internal pterygoid process of sphenoid, and palate), and the mandibular