177 ERYSIPELAS the swelling passing to the air-passages and in- ducing oedema glottidis. Sloughs of the mucous membrane leaving putrid ulcers, and causing enlargement of adjacent lymphatic glands, are common. (e) Erysipelas in Wounds.— The healing of an aseptic wound is not necessarily interrupted by a mild attack of true erysipelas. In most cases, however, the inflammatory eflusions separate the edges, and pus subsequently forms in the wound. A granulating wound becomes drj' and ceases for the time being to secrete pus, or it may become covered over with a greyish false mem- brane. .3. (a) By metastntic erysipelas is meant a variety in which the disease appeal's at seats far removed from the primary point of infection. (6) Erysipelas migrans is a form of the disease, which, though mild in degree, tends to wander over very wide areas of the body. {<;) The term liabitual erysipelas is applied to cases where the patient is liable to have repeated attacks, usually occurring about the same time of year, and in the same situation on the body. Complications op Erysipelas. — The most important local complication of erysipelas is the occurrence of a diffuse supjjnirative cellulitis, which may spi'ead into the connective tissue planes and lead to gangrene of various soft tissues, especially fascia; and tendons. This condition is due to the entrance of pyogenic bacteria, and supervenes most frequently on erysipelas oi'iginating in a surgical wound. Its onset completely changes the clinical picture, and the signs and symptoms of the cellulitis completely overshadow those of the erysipelas. {See "Suppuration.") It is not uncommon to find many small localised: snperficial abscesses develop during the convalescent stage of erysipelas after all the acute inflammatory symptoms have subsided. These are in all probability due to the action of pyogenic organisms which have been present in the deeper layers of the skin, and have found in the devitalised tissiies suitable conditions for their development. The rapidity with which such abscesses heal after being incised is re- markable. In the female, erysipelas in the region of the pudenda may spread to the uterus and its adnexa. This is especially liable to occur during the puerperal state, and to give rise to one of the most serious forms of pmerpteral sepsis. In a few rare cases a peculiarly persistent form of oedema, almost like an elephantiasis, of the afl'ected part may result. The occurrence of intracranial comjilications and of implications of the organs of special sense have already been referred to. Differential Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of true and uncomplicated erysipelas is as a rule vol. Ill easy. The conditions with which it is liable to be confused are— (1) Sijnpjle Erythema, Acute Ec::ema, or Acute Dermatitis.—These inflammatory skin aflections are mainly local in their manifestations, and only . in severe cases give rise to a marked degree of constitutional disturbance. (2) Erythema nodosum is usually in patches, bilateral, and associated with rheumatism in young women. (3) Severe Iteypes may at first simulate ery- sipelas. (4) Lymphangitis occurs in streaks along the lines of the main lymphatic trunks, which may be felt as firm cords. (5) Thrombo-pililehitis also manifests red lines with hard cords along the course of the affected tissue, and is often associated with a septic ulcer. (6) Acute supijnirative cellulitis, and (7) acute sjyreading gangrene, or even (8) acute osteo- myelitis, may at first sight lie mistaken for erysipelas, but careful clinical investigation should prevent serious errors in diagnosis. The Prognosis of uncomplicated erysipelas is on the whole hopeful, and is based upon the usual considerations as to the site, severity, ex- tent, and duration of the disease, and the age and general condition of the patient. The pro- gnostic significance of comjjlications is ol)vious after what has already been said. Treatment.—That erysipelas has become so much less frequent since the introduction of antiseptics is sufficient ground for demanding the systematic use of these agents with a view to preventing its occurrence. The hidications for treatment in an active case of the disease are — (1) to prevent its further spread; (2) to guard against mixed infection; (3) to allay local symptoms; (4) to counteract genei'al constitutional disturbance ; (5) to treat sjaecial synjptoms. 1. The spread of the disease being due to the growth and multiplication of the causal organisms, it is evident that it can only be arrested by attacking and destroying these, and many attempts have been made to this end. The local application of strong antisejDtic lotions, especially such as have the power of penetrating the skin, like cai-bolic acid (1 in 20) or cor- rosive sublimate (1 in 1000) ; the inunction of mercurial ointment; the tight application of bands of adhesive plaster with a view to occlud- ing the lymphatics, have all been tried with more or less success. Believing that by the phagocytic action of the leucocytes the spread of the organism is arrested in the natural cure of the disease, the writer some years ago employed a method of treatment with considerable success, the object of which is to produce a zone of increased leuco- cytosis in front of the advancing streptococci. The method consists in painting round the 12