74 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN that part of the primarj- venti-al blood-vessel where the greatest resistance has to be over- come ; but in the organogenesis of the human subject the heart appears before the associated main vessels. The mammary glands, also, make their appearance in the individual before the sebaceous glands from which they are sup- posed to have been , differentiated; and the paired eyes in vertebrates arise long before the much older pineal eye. It would seem, to revert for a moment to a non-scientific way of speaking, as if Nature in telling in the indivi- dual the story of his descent (or ascent) made occasional slips and put incidents in a wrong order of occurrence. Doubtless the mistakes are only seeming mistakes, and an explanation is hidden away somewhere if it could but be found. Possibly, as Mehnert suggests, when an organ rises in physiological importance and structural differentiation it acquires a propor- tionate inci-ease in its rate of development. Progressive organs are accelerated in their rate of development, and retrogressive ones tend to be belated; and their state of acceleration or belatedness (or retardation) is due to the inten- sity of developmental energy in them. It is not yet clear what exactly it is that exalts or depresses developmental energy. It must ap- parently be conceded, therefore, that ontogeny is laot in point of the sequence of events a recapitulation of phylogeny; but it does not necessarily follow that there is no tendency for it to be so. It would seem that there is a constant inclination towards a chronological parallelism between ontogeny and phylogeny, along with frequently occurring interruptions and disturbances due to circumstances possibly of an enviromnental or hereditary character. It is not true then that " every creature climbs up its own genealogical tree," but it would seem to be true that it tries to do so; perhaps it sometimes swings from branch to branch! At the same time, even if the recapitulation prin- ciple be accepted in this partial form, it must not be forgotten into how marvellously short a story has been condensed so inconceivably long a history. In the first six weeks of the antenatal life of the human embrj^o are repre- sented in epitome all the ages that have gone to the making of man ! And each life adds on something to the ever-lengthening tale ! Further than these seven principles it does not seem wise in the present state of our know- ledge to go. It would be easy, extremely easy, to add to the number, but the additions would be hypothetical generalisations, and they would also be hypotheses about which embryologists are far from being in agreement. There is, for instance, the question whether the various parts of the embryo exist already in the ovum and need only to be rearranged during organogenesis, whether each organ, each tissue, and each cell is represented by a distinct rudiment {anisotropy of the ovum); or whether the substance of the ovum is homogeneous and contains no parts specially set aside to form definite structures in the embryo, whether it is isotropic. The weight of evidence is apparently in favour of the iso- tropic character of the ovum ; but it would seem as if in certain animals it were sometimes, and in others always, anisotropic. The evidence is chiefly of an exjDerimental kind, and is not free from fallacy. At any rate, it is obvious that under the circumstances it would be unwise to attempt to formulate a general principle on the data at command. The same remark applies to the problem of the causes and manner of the differentiation of parts in the embryo, to that of morphogenesis, to that of regeneration, and to many other biological questions. Enough has been said to show that there are general principles in Embryology, general laws, the appreciation of which will facilitate the understanding of the architectonic phase of antenatal life. The outstanding peculiarity of Embryology is still its complexity, for the state- ment of general principles does not lessen that —it rather throws it into bolder relief; but surely behind this complexity there is a real simplicity if we could find out the great deter- mining factor in embryo-formation. The results of the action of gravity are complex enough, but behind their perplexing manifestations is the simple law of gravitation. There may be some such simple and imiversally applicable pi'inciple of ontogenesis, if it could only be dis- covered. We need for Embryology an Isaac Newton "of an extraordinary genius and pro- ficiency in these things." Chronology of Embryonic Life In this section and in those that follow it an attempt is made to give a chronological sketch of the phenomena of embryonic life. The period of aiitenatal existence from the appearance of the first rudiments of the embryo in the embry- onic area up to the transformation of that embryo into the neofcetus is dealt with. The neofoetal period is the transition time inter- vening between embryonic and foetal life. Its leading character—gradual assumption by the embryo of a recognisably human appearance— will be described later. It is with the embryo, then, before the neo foetal epoch that we have to do in these sections. The terminus of embryonic life we fix at the end of the sixth week of intra-uterine existence. But at what time may it be said that the typi- cally embryonic life of the new organism begins? We have announced the terminus ad qiieni, but what declaration have we to make regarding the terminus a quo 1 It may be admitted at once that it is not yet possible to fix exactly the date when human embryonic life begins and germinal existence ceases. If we regard the antenatal life of forty