ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 53 in the old or even in young adults, and may indeed be so slight even in old-standing cases as to lead the surgeon astray as to the existence of tubercle in the affection ; such cases usually present marked features of bone involvement. Fain.—In the early stages there may be little or no pain even on gentle movement. Gener- ally it may be elicited by palpation, and, in any case, is complained of after the use of the limb for some time, and is of course always a marked feature when early ulceration of cartilage takes place. As a symptom of tuberculous disease of tlie elbow, pain is of uncertain value. Htiffnens.—As the disease progresses gradual flexion to an angle of 140" or thereby takes place. Extension is early interfered with, though other movements may persist for a con- siderable time. Ultimately the joint gets more and more fixed, and if left alone osseous or fibrous ankylosis ensues, generally at an angle of 140°-14.5°, and with the hand in extreme pronation. Wastin;/ of Muscles. ■—■ This is especially marked in the upper arm, is very constantly met with, and accentuates the swelling in the ell)ow. if the case be allowed to run its course, abscesses or intra-articular suppuration lead to the formation of sinuses usually most marked on tlie outer side of the joint. The constitutional manifestations are those of localised tubercle. (See " Bones " and "Joints.") The treatment of tuberculous disease of the elbow-joint differs not only according to the age of the patient, the type of the disease, and its stage, but according to the social position of the patient, and the possibility of subsequent good hj'giene and dietary. In healthy subjects, when the disease is seen early, and especially in the young, even although the disease may be severe, it may be arrested by appropriate local remedies and constitutional treatment, and the joint l:)e left in a useful condition. The local remedies applicable to the elbow are those used in joints elsewhere. In the stage of eftusion a 10 per cent sterilised iodoform emulsion (glycerine or oil), repeated every four- teen days or so, will be found most useful. The injection is best made by the side of the ole- cranon, and the joint ought to be freely moved after the mixture is injected that it may be diffused over the whole joint surface. Twenty to sixty grains of iodoform may be injected at one time. The limb must be fixed in a suitable splint and gentle massage of the joint practised daily. Good results have also been obtained by the hypersemic engorgement method of Bier. Tuberculous abscesses must bo treated as they form with the usual antiseptic precautions. These measures, with constitutional treatment, may result in the recovery of the joint with its functions but little impaii'ed. In the majority of cases, however, operation will be called for, and the aim of this, as in operation for the other manifestations of tubercle, is to remove as much of the disease as possible, and yet to leave a functionally useful joint. When the disease is primarily synovial, erasion of the joint rather than excision is to be pre- ferred, especially in the young, even in those cases where deposits of tubercle exist in the bone, as these may be scooped out. If asepsis has been secured, complete recovery may ensue with a useful joint. Should the disease have been primarily osseous, or have involved the bones deeply by extension from the synovial membrane, then it is better to perform the classical excision. Whether erasion or excision be performed, it is absolutely essential that as much of the disease as possible should be removed, the syn- ovial membrane entirely dissected away, impli- cated bui'sal extensions cleared out, secondary nodules without the capsule searched for and evacuated, and foci in the bone cleared out by the gouge or spoon. Syphilitic Arthritis is not uncommon, especially in the case of hereditary syphilis in children. The disease simulates closely tuber- culous arthritis, and it is extremely probable that much of the good accounted to Scott's dressing (Ung. hydrarg.) in that affection is due to mistaken diagnosis. In the early forms of the disease there is well- marked serous eftiision into the joint, while later there appears localised thickening of the syn- ovial membrane from the formation of gummata, or a general thickening from interstitial inflam- mation. In doubtful cases the use of mercury and iodide of potassium will clear up the diagnosis. Chronic Rhbumatis.m, Gout, Osteo-Arthritis, Charcot's Disease, are all met with in the elbow. A detailed description of each will be found under their respective headings; the pathological and clinical features are similar to those of a like afl'ection of other joints, treatment in the case of the elbow differs in no respect. Haemophilia. — Cases have been reported where in this disease ha3morrhage has suddenly taken place into the joint with swelling and pain. The swelling gradually subsided, leaving the joint stiff' and to some extent disorganised. Bursitis.—The following bursa? are found in the region of the elbow-joint:—(1) Over the olecranon; (2) beneath the tendon of the triceps muscle ; (3) over the epicondyles; (4) upon the tuberosity of the radius beneath the insertion of the biceps tendon ; (.5) between the radius and ulna below the articulation. Acute inflammation usually follows a septic wound of the bursa, that over the olecranon being most frequently affected. Occasionally a h£eiuatom;i of the bursa may