250 FALLOPIAN TUBES same class, as it seems to imply inflammatory change even if only affecting the tube. This condition has been reported ; not only more than one glandular cystoma (Olshausen, etc.), but also a papillomatous cystoma (Terrillon), have been seen communicating with a hydrosalpinx. Such specimens are rare, firstly, because in ovarian cystic disease the tube and mesosalpinx usually escape inflammation; and, secondly, because when a hydrosalpinx comes to lie on the surface of an ovarian cystic tumour, the walls of the latter are usually thick, and the chances of perforation at the point of contact small. The author has observed several specimens of this condition in his own practice, and in all there was no trace of thinning of either the tubal or the ovarian walls where they adhered. When the tube and the ovarian cyst actually com- municate, the latter may discharge externally through the tube and uterus [Hydrops ovarii profluens, Hildebrand and others). (3) Ovarian Hydrocele.—Bland - Sutton dis- tinguishes a sjjecial variety of tubo-ovarian cyst which is congenital and in no way due to previous inflammation. He goes so far as to make his variety into a separate class, saying that " ovarian hydroceles must not be con- founded with tubo-ovarian cysts." In ovarian hydrocele the tube, it is asserted, opens into a recess on the posterior surface of the mesosalpinx known as the " ovarian sac." This recess is a mere pit in the normal mesosalpinx in women, but in " ovarian hydrocele " it is a perfect pouch as in some rodents, and Sutton supports his theory, which is fully demonstrated in his work on Surgical Diseases of the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes, by showing that intermediate degrees of development of the ovarian sac are to be found in other mammals. The ovary projects into the sac. Ovarian hydrocele is certainly a rare con- dition, many alleged specimens being, in the author's opinion, pseudo-tubo-ovarian cysts; the observer falling into a natural error, explained above, about the fimbriated extremity. Hydrops tuha pi-ojluens. — Free discharge from the uterus and coincident disappearance of a swelling on one side of the uterus have been observed by authorities of a past genera- tion. The disappearance of a pelvic swelling is a necessary factor as proof of this condition, for in pure uterine catarrh a steady discharge of watery serous fluid is sometimes observed, and at times it may suddenly escape in con- siderable abundance. The swelling which dis- appears may, again, be in part a cystic ovary (Hydrops ovarii profluens: see paragraphs on Tubo-ovarian Cysts) communicating with the tube. In Doleris's case of papilloma of the tube, where the ostium was closed and the uterine end open and dilated, as proved at the operation, great quantities of fluid came away ; in short, this is one of the best-attested instances of Hydrops tubse profluens. A pyosalpinx may undoubtedly discharge into the uterus. The author knows of a case where there was a swelling on each side of the uterus, with occasional fever. Operation was declined, and ultimately much pus escaped for weeks from the uterus, the swelling vanishing. Symptoms and Diagnosis of the Different Forms of Salpingitis and allied Tubal Affections. —Salpingitis comes within the range of the class of disorder known generally as " peri- metritis" and "diseases of the uterine appen- dages," and is closely associated with inflam- mation of the ovary. The general pelvic symptoms will be found described under pelvic inflammation (see " Pelvis"). An inflamed, unobstructed tube can be felt on bimanual palpation, unless the patient be very fat, but the localising to the tube of any pain that may be present is not possible, nor is it probable that the tube is very tender. The pain probably signifies inflammation or sympathetic irritation of the ovary. In chronic salpingitis, where a history of long-standing pelvic disorder is rarely absent, the tough, tortuous tube is often easy to detect on palpation. Inflamed tubes may certainly discharge into the uterus, but the source of the discharge can rarely be determined in any particular case. Hydrosalpinx and pyosalpinx are clinically far moi'e definite disorders. When there is evidence of past or present acute or chronic pelvic inflammation, the presence of a fluctuating swelling in the posterior or in one lateral fornix usually signifies the presence of an obstructed and dilated tube. The tube is alwaj's tender and fixed, or but little movable. As under both circumstances there is a history of pelvic inflammation, it is not possible to decide whether a hydrosalpinx has developed from salpingitis or from pelvic peritonitis sealing up a healthy tube. The author finds that the latter form, detected at operation, is often exceedingly painful, causing more suffering than is seen in bad cases of bilateral pyosalpinx. Indeed, clinical evidence is not always sufficient to distinguish hydrosalpinx from pyosalpinx. High temperature may exist with hydrosaljDinx owing to inflammation in the neighbourhood, and, on the other hand, a chronic pyosalpinx is fre- quently all bvit painless, and not accompanied by fever. One feature in all forms of dilated tube is a tendency to empty some of the fluid contents into the uterus, so that the swelling becomes smaller and less tense and painful for a time. But conspicuous hydrops profluens is rare and fluid discharges may be uterine. Hydi-osalpinx and pyosalpinx cannot always be distinguished from a small ovarian tumour bound down by adhesions in Douglas's pouch. A careful use of the sound will distinguish the fundus of a retroflexed uterus from a dilated tube in Douglas's pouch. The diagnosis I of a dilated tube from tubal gestation is not