130 ENZYMES glucosides (esterlike combinations of monosac- charides, such as d-glucose or 1-fructose, with bodies of a phenol or of an aldehyde nature) ai-e broken up by a number of enzymes. According to E. Fischer the disaccharides which are split up by the inverting enzymes are to be considered as glucosides of sugar, hence it is not to be wondered at that other glucosides are also liable to be split up by ferments. Thus the inverting ferments of Penicillium glaucum and Aspergillus niger act upon amygdalin. The best-known ferment of those which split up glucosides is emulsin, which was discovered by Liebig and Wohler. By hydration it splits up amygdalin (obtained from bitter and sweet almonds by precipitation of a watery extract with alcohol) into sugar, hydrocyanic acid, and oil of bitter almonds. There are other glucosides, such as salicin, chlorsalicin, helicin, arbutin, phloridzin, aesculin, daphnin, and coniferin, which are decomposed by emulsin. The opt'mum temperature appears to be from 20'" to 30° C. Hydrochloric acid, even in a dilution of 0'135 per mille, abolishes its activity. Another glucoside-splitting ferment, viyronn, occurs in watery extracts of white and black mustard seeds. It breaks up the myronate of potassium—myronic acid is a compound of a glucoside nature—contained in black mustard seeds into mustard oil, sugar, potassium sul- phate, and some free sulphur. 2. Enzymes tvhich dissolve Albuviin. These ferments have also a wide distribution throughout the vegetable and animal kingdoms, and are of great importance for metabolism. The true colloidal albumin is hydrolysed by the action of this enzyme, and then broken up into compounds which are capable of being absorlied and are fit for nourishment. Various observa- tions point to the fact that in general almost all vegetable and animal cells are provided with some such enzymes as split up albumin. One important difference in regard to excretion must, however, be emphasised. There are but few forms of cells, in proportion to the total, which excrete these enzymes ; many seem to give them off only if the death of the protoplasma occur in a certain sudden fashion. The majority of cells contain merely a zymogen which, in accordance with the constitution of the protoplasma, is con- verted inside the cell into enzyme. The subse- quent splitting up of albuminous substances by this enzyme is usually an intra-cellular process too. In this fashion one can probably explain why it is that after animal organs have been minutely subdivided and digested with chloro- form water peptic metabolic products have been seen to appear, whereas mere traces of these bodies exist in fresh organs, and especially in the liver (Salkowski). By pulverising and crushing the cellular substance of yeast a fer- ment of marked activity in splitting up albumin can be obtained, a ferment which is otherwise detectable only in old cultures by liquefaction of the gelatine (Hahn and Geret). A few other schizomycetes, such as typhoid and tubercle bacilli, have also, after similar treatment, yielded enzymes, the existence of which was formerly unknown. While there seem to be numerous intra-cellular enzymes or " endotrypsins" (Hahn, Geret) which split up albumin, the ferments as yet known which are secreted by cells, i.e. extra- cellular proteolytic ferments, are considerably fewer in number. On reflection the statement is explained by the fact that the proteolytic enzymes in contrast to the inverting ones, so far as is known, dialyse with difficulty or else not at all, and thus can only escape out through the cell wall under special circumstances. The ferments which split up albumin may be regarded from two different standpoints :— 1. According to the form of digestive pro- ducts which they produce.—Here again three types may be distinguished—(a) Ferments of the peptic type, which yield only peptone and albumose as products of digestion ; (/») Ferments of the tryptic type, which produce albumose and peptone, but also amido acids and hexon bases as the products of splitting ; (c) Those of the type of " yeast endotrypsin," which form merely traces of albumose, no peptone, but principally amido acids, and probably hexon bases. All of these decompositions can only be accomplished by the entrance of water into the albumin molecule. 2. The proteolytic ferments may also be classiffed according to the reaction which favours their working or which rendei's their action possible. — Thus we recognise — (a) Enzymes which split up albumin, but whose action occurs, or at any rate is aided, only if the reactitm be acid, e.ff. pepsin and yeast endotrypsin; (6) Those which require an alkaline reaction, e.g. trypsin and papayotin ; (c) Those where the digestive process proceeds whether the reaction be faintly acid, alkaline, or neutral, for instance the enzyme in the juice of Ficus carica. Pepsin.—For the formatit)n, secretion, char- acteristics, mode of action, and digestive pro- ducts of this enzyme see the article " Digestion." It is noteworthy that, while the optimum tem- perature for the pepsin of warm-blooded animals is 37', that for the pepsin of cold-blooded animals seems to be 15°. Even though pepsin is destroyed to a slight extent during digestion, yet thei'e is in practical circumstances very sel- dom any real deficiency of pepsin, but rather a want of acid. The presence of free hydrochloric acid is the fundamental factor in peptonisation, which can almost always be stimulated by the addition of fresh acid. Pepsin digests collagen, gelatine, and elastin, as well as the true albumin- ous bodies, while keratin, nuclein, and amyloid are not altered. Other ferments, such as emulsin