381 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF while the more advanced age of the patient and the previous history of alcoholism will help to prevent a mistake iu diagnosis. Generally little treatment is necessary in order to get rid of simple catarrhal jaundice. Since the infection originates in the duodenum, and is kept up by the condition there, it will be well to give some mild purgative such as calomel or a saline. The food should be of such a character as to be readily digested and not subject to early fermentative changes; no alcohol should be given. Large rectal injections of hot water at a temperature of from 70° to 90° F. have been recommended, and are supposed to act by induc- ing active contractions of the gall-bladder, which expel the mucus blocking the common duct. Chronic Catarrh of the larr/er Bile Ducts.— Though simple acute catarrh may assume a chronic phase, this is unusual, and chronic cholangitis, giving rise to symptoms, is usually due to some other cause. Of these the most common is probably the presence of gall-stones, but in many cases of cancer of the liver the jaundice is, in the earlier stages, due in the main to the catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane of the bile ducts, which is invariably present at all stages. Similarly, when jaundice is present in cases of hydatid of the liver, or of hepatic abscess, it is more frequently due to an inflammatory swelling of the ducts than to pressure on them by the tumour. Where the process is merely a continu;ition of an acute catarrh the symptoms will be slight, consisting mainly of more or less icterus and some gastro-intestinal disturbance. The persistence of the jaundice may lead to a sus- picion of sei'ious organic disease, especially cancer, but as a rule there is not much loss of flesh or strength, and the jaundice does not progi'essively deepen as it does in malignant disease. Moreover, the symptoms will, more or less readily, yield to ajapropriate treatment in the simple cases, whereas in malignant disease there will be at the best only temporary amelioration. Many cases of chronic catarrhal jaundice are undoubtedly due to interstitial pancreatitis, which when extreme may simulate cancer of the head of the pancreas, but which, unlike cancer, can be cured by a cholecystenterostomy, as I have proved on many occasions. A chemical examination of the urine and fieces enaliles a differential diagnosis to be made (7). Where the catarrh has been caused by gall-stones and persists after these have been passed, there is apt to be present in the ducts thick ropy mucus which has difficulty in passing along the narrowed ducts, and often gives rise to sliti'ht attacks of pain. Occasionally, as in cholecystitis, the mucus becomes m\ich inspissated, and then when pass- ing gives rise to pain resembling in almost all particulars that due to the passage of a gall-stone. So marked may be the resemblance, that in some cases it is not possible to differentiate between the two classes, but as a rule in cholelithiasis there is more marked tenderness, and for the most part some evidences of adhesions of neigh- bouring organs. Chronic catarrh with or witliout jaundice should be treated, along the same lines as the acute affection, by salines (the best being the natural Carlsbad water), light diet, and regular exercise. With great care massage may be em- ployed, and in the absence of gall-stones will probably be beneficial, but if there be any suspicion that the condition is directly due to cholelithiasis this treatment should be avoided. In the event of pain being present, topical remedies in the shape of hot fomentation, or the ingestion of a tumblerful of water as hot as it can be borne, will probably be sufficient; but it may be necessary occasionally to use sedatives. I have found half a drachm of spirit of ether in chloroform water, repeated every quarter of an hour if necessary, most effectual; but it may be necessary to give morphine hypodermically. Unless cure or very marked relief follows this treatment within a month, the best treatment is to drain the gall-bladder and ducts by per- forming cholecystotomy or cholecystenterostomy, when if any gall-stones are present they may be removed at the same time. AVhether any calculi are found or not, the tube should be retained in the gall-bladder for some time ; indeed, in the absence of stones it will probably be necessary to drain for a longer period, or to permanently short circuit the ob- struction in the head of the pancreas by chole- cystenterostomy. The best index to the time for withdrawal of the tube is sterility of the discharge ; but roughly, it should be retained until the exudate is thin and contains little or no bile, as it is then clear that the normal secretion has been reached and tlie conimon duct is jjatent. After removal of the tube general treatment like that outlined above should be continued for some considerable time. Infective Cholaoigitis.—In all forms of catarrh of the l)ile ducts there is probably some degree of microV)ic infection, and the jjeculiar symptoms which differentiate so-called " infective cholan- gitis" from ordinary catarrh are probably to be attributed to the occurrence of intermittent com- plete stojjpage of the evacuation of the inflamma- tory products into the duodenum. In the great majority of cases this will be found to be caused by gall-stones in the common duct either in the shape of a single stone " float- ing " in the duct and acting as a ball valve, or of multiple stones becoming impacted probably from some tempoi'ary swelling of the walls of the channels. Occasionally, however, malignant disease, either of the head of the pancreas and involving the orifice of the common duct or of the liver, is associated with infective cholangitis.