115 EMPHYSEMA, SURGICAL other causes being for the most part rare. The appearances prochiced are those of a swelling with ill-defined limits, and over which the skin appears healthy. The part is soft to the touch, and on slight pressure fine crepitation can be elicited, which is liiglily characteristic. The region where the air first makes its appearance subcutaneously is of importance in determining the cause. Thus the emphysema appears first in the chest-wall when due to a wound of the lung, but first in the flanks, and tlien on the front of the abdomen wlien due to rupture of the intestine. In sulipleural rupture the air escapes into the interalvcolar tissue (interstitial emphysema), and thence into the mediastinum, and appears first at the neck. The extent of the emphysema is very variable. In the majority of cases it is localised to the site of its initial appearance, in others it may thence spread. The infiltration of air is often limited by the attachments of fascire, and although general emphysema is of rare occurrence, the trunk, neck, and limbs may all be involved. Treatment.—Pressure is useful in limiting the emphysema. Other measures must be adopted if indicated l)y the causal process, and the pos- sibility of suppuration should be remembered especially if there be an external wound. Emphysema must be clearly distinguished from the condition where gases in the tissues are due to the action of bacteria. Apart from the gangrenous emphysema due to the bacillus of malignant oedema, somewhat similar cases have been recorded by Fraenkel (B. phlegmones emphysematosse), Wicklein (B. emphysematis nialigni), etc., where the process was due to other anaerobic bacilli which are probably not all identical. Gas may also be found, associated with anaerobic bacilli, in the tissues post- mortem, usually, however, in the internal organs (German, Schaumorganen), and especially in the liver. The gas-forming bacillus found by Welch and Nuttal has been termed " Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus." Empirica.!. — l>ased on experience and observation (Cir. e/xTre/pos, experienced), and not on scientific theory ; empirical treatment may be successful, although the reason of its efficac}' be unknown or inexplicable by philosophical or scientific methods of reasoning. ElTipla.Stra,.—Plasters, for external appli- cation ; EinjilaMrum pilmnbi, or lead plaster, is the basis of nearly all the other official emplastra (e.g. Emplastrxmi hydrargyri, E. saponis, E. resinte, E. belladonnee, etc.). Employment, Hours of.—Accord- ing to Sanitary Law the employment of young persons (14 to 18 years) and women in textile factories must not exceed 12 hours a day, 5 days a week, and 6 hours on Saturdays; children must not be employed for more than half days, unless these be alternate days, and not on two successive Saturdays. In non-textile factories and workshops, women and young persons must not be employed longer than 12 hours on 5 days a week nor 8 hours on Saturdays. In both cases regular times are to be set apart for meals, and work must not be continuous for more than 4| hours (in textile factories) or 5 hours (in non-textile factories) without at least half an hour for meals. " An occupier may not know- ingly employ any woman or child in any factory or workshop within four weeks after she has given birth to a child." EmproSthotonOS.—The condition in which the wIkiIc body is curved, with the con- cavity anterior. See Hysteria (Coihvulsions, First Period) ; Tetanus {Clinical Features, in Pa7-ox//s»is). EmprOSthOZy^OSiS.—Conjoined or united twins, in which the union is face to face, above the umbilicus (Gr. ijxTvpoa-Oio-i, in front, and ^vyim, I join together); the twins may be equally or unequally developed ; under this term (introduced by Thompson Lowne) are in- cluded the xiphopagous and thoracopagous monsters and some parasitic types {e.g. that in which an acephalous twin is attached to the lower end of the sternima of its autosite). See Teratology. Empyema. See Aspirator, Uses of; BuAix, Akfectiuxs of Bloou-Vessels {Cerebral Embolism, Causes); BRONcni, Bronchiectasis {Diagnosis, Prognosis); Diaphragm, Surgical Affections of {Sub-phrenic Abscess); Joints, Diseases of {Fm^ji/ettia or Pus in the Joint); Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Cold Abscess or Em- pyemayj ; LiVER {Tropical Abscess, Prognosis, Rupture); Lungs, Gangrene {Etiology); Nose, Chronic Inflammation {At)-02}hic Rhinitis, Diag- nosis, Empyema of Antrum) ; Nose Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Chronic Suppuration or " Latent Empyema "); Osteo-Arthropathies ; Pleura, Diseases of {Empyema) ; Pleura, Affections of. Surgical {Exploration of the Pleura, Empyema ; Pneumonia, Clinical {Com- pilications). Ems. See Mineral Waters {Muriated Alkaline). Emulsification. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic Secretion, Pialyn). Emulsin.—A ferment existing in bitter and sweet almonds ; it is like casein; and it causes amygdalin (C.,„Ho-NOj-i) to break up into benzaldehyde (CgH^COH), hydrocyanic acid (HCN), and glucose (ZCgH^.^Oj ; synaptase. Emulsion.—"A milky liquid, consisting of water holding in suspension minute particles