105 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN length during this and the preceding week is in part due to the straightening of the body and the raising of the head. The changes in the external appearances of the embryo ai"e also largely caused by this alteration in attitude. The neck bend becomes in consequence more rectangular, and the concavity at the back of the neck {Nackengrvhe) less marked. The mid- brain comes to lie more directly above the hind- l)rain. The abdomen is still more prominent than it was in the fifth week, with the result that the limbs do not in profile views reach to the outline of it. Other external features at this age are : the presence of a distinct tail, which, however, is relatively smaller than before; the indication towards the end of the week of slight folds surrounding the conjunctival -area, the anlages of the future eyelids; the appearance of the fingers as separate outgrowths; tlie existence of a recognisable external ear or concha; the completion of the upper part of the face by the union of the two maxillary processes ; and the direction of the long axes of the limbs at right angles to that of the body. The um- bilical cord is now quite distinct in its whole length, and still evidently contains a loop of intestine. If we look more closely at the face at this period of embryonic life, we shall see that thnjugh the union of the maxillary processes with the lateral nasal and fronto-nasal processes the external boundaries of the nostrils have been marked out and the mouth cavity shut oft' from the nasal pits. There is consequently a recog- nisable but very broad nose, the nasal pits being the anterior nares. It is noteworthy, also, that through the downward growth of the fronto- nasal process the mouth receives a new upper boundary. Posterior to this process the oral and nasal cavities freely communicate, for the two lateral halves of the palate do not begin to unite till the eighth week. The oral surface of the upper jaw already (towards the end of the sixth week) shows two parallel ridges, which afterwards become the upper lip and the gum. At the posterior end of the embryo the genital tubercle is now clearly recognisable ; behind it is the cloacal fossa, and encircling the fossa is a ridge (genital ridge of the external genitals) ; no groove has yet appeared on the under surface of the genital tubercle. The histological exami- nation of the skin shows the same two laj^ers as in the fifth week with an indication of the dermis or cutis beneath them. There are no very radical changes to be noted in the internal conditions of the embryo in this week. As has been already stated, most of the ■embryonic rearrangements have been initiated and many of them have been almost carried through. Such changes as there are affect •specially the brain and spinal cord, the ear and eye, the genito-urinary organs, and the susten- tacular framework of the bodj'. The alterations in the spinal cord are evident. The central canal has changed from an oval running antero - jjosteriorly into a somewhat rhomboidal form. The lateral angles of the lozenge-shaped space thus produced divide the latei'al walls very distinctly into two zones or laminas, an alar or dorsal and a basal or ventral. The roof- and floor-plates (mid-dorsal and mid- ventral laminie) show no changes ; but the alar and basal laminte of the lateral walls do so. The posterior nerve-roots, of which there were indications at the fourth and fifth weeks, can now be recognised passing into the alar lamina ; while the anterior or ventral roots take origin in the ventral lamina. At present the cells of the ventral zone are much more numerous than those of the dorsal, so that the rudiment of the anterior horn of grey matter is much larger than that of the posterior horn. There is also some sign of the developing white columns of the cord : the grey matter of the anterior horn is separated from the ventral surface of the cord by a zone in which longitudinal nerve fibres are found, the commencing anterior white column ; in a less marked fashion the posterior white columns have begun to be evident between the posterior horn and the surface. There is, as yet, little or no trace of lateral columns, and there are no signs of an anterior or a posterior fissure. About this time the two ventral arteries unite into a single median vessel (arteria sulci). The whole of the complicated arrangement of bundles of fibres in the cord comes into Iteing later than the sixth week, that is to say in the fa>tal and not in the emliryonic pei'iod of ante- natal life. The changes in the brain are of the nature of continuations of those initiated in the fifth week, and the reader may refer to the preceding chapter for the account of them. There are some slight indications of further structural elaborations to which an allusion may be made. In the hind-brain or rhombenccphalnn and in that part of it (niyelencephalon) which becomes the medulla oblongata, there is a broadening out of both roof-plate and dorsal part of the brain cavity so that the margins of the doi'sal zone or alar lamina have a lateral position and are bent towards the ventral aspect to form a reflected lip (Jianten/ijyjye). In the sixth week this lip continues to grow towards the ventral aspect of the niyelencephalon to which it is united, and it thus buries parts (e.g. tractus solitarius) which primarily lay on the surface. Through this bending, the surfaces of the dorsal zone come to be dorsal and ventral instead of internal and external; from it the future resti- form body is formed. The ventral zones show- marked thickening, and so the floor of the cavity of the niyelencephalon (fourth ventricle) is flattened. The grey matter of the ventral zones forms the formatio reticularis ; it is surrounded by great numbers of neuroblasts (futm-e olivaiy