GROIN, THE above increases its size. Resonance on per- cussion would suggest an enterocole. The presence of fluctuation would eliminate a large class of swellings, e.g. the tumours proper, etc., but would indicate glandular and simple abscess and rarely aneurysm. Impulse on coughing is present in reducible and irreducible hei'nia, psoas abscess, and varix, and occasionally in cysts. A pulsating tumour is probably an aneurysm, or a vascular malignant growth, possibly a swelling, fluid or even solid, with pulsation communicated from the femoral artery. The presence of a thrill is ciiaracter- istic of an aneurysm, or more rarely of a fluid tumour lying on the femoral artery. Pain is a prominent symptom in inflammatory conditions, in neuroma, and in tumours which press upon sensory nerves. 4. Signs of inflammation should also be noted. The swelling may be primarily an inflammatory one, e.g. abscess; or a i^re-existing tumour, e.g. an aneurysm may become inflamed. 5. It is important to ascertain the existence of morbid conditions in any other part of the body which may have an important bearing on the lesion in the groin. Abdominal symptoms are, of course, a prominent feature in strangii- lated hernia and perityphlitic abscess, and their occurrence should be carefully noted. Thus, enlarged lymphatic glands in the neck and axilla, as well as in the groin, associated with antcmia, would confirm a diagnosis of Hodgkin's disease, and similarly a diagnosis of tuberculosis or syphilis might be made. 6. In the examination of the tvmiour it should be carefully ascertained if the tumour in the groin is confined to the groin, or if it extends into another region. Attention to this point might confirm a diagnosis of, e.g. psoas abscess. III. Injuries of the Groin Dislocations of the femur and fractures of the femur and of the pelvis are described in articles devoted to these subjects, and the possibility of suppuration following separation of the upper epiphysis of the femur should be Ijorne in mind. Gunshot wounds are, especially during warfare, very common, and the nature and extent of the injury depends upon the size and shape of the projectile—an expanding bullet inflicting a very much more serious injury both upon the tissues and the bones than a non-expanding bullet; upon the velocity of the projectile—the greater the velocity the less serious the injury ; and upon the distance which the pi'ojectile has to travel. Full details on these points will be found in the articles on " Gunshot Wounds." {See Ankle-Joint, Region of, In.iuries ; Knee- JoiNT, Injuries of ; (Esophagus, Wounds of.) When the artery is injured a traumatic aneurysm may result. Damage to the vein may cause an arterio-venous aneurysm, and if nerves, such as the anterior crural, are divided paralysis will I'esult when the motor filaments are implicated, anfcsthesia when the sensory filaments are im- plicated. The bone may escape injury, or it may be shattered. Every attempt must be made to save the limb, for few operations are attended with a higher mortality than amputation at the hip-joint, which such an injury would necessi- tate. Stabs and other punctured wounds may produce injuries similar to those just described, with the reservation that the subjacent bones can be, and usually are, damaged to only a slight extent. Burns of the groin, more especially if deep, should be carefully treated, for unless the thigh is maintained extended by splints or extension during the healing process a cicatrix may result, causing almost incurable flexion of tiie thigh. Great care should be taken to prevent the suppuration of wounds in the groin, for owing to the superficial position of the main vessels deep ulceration may result in secoudarj' haemorrhage. Ground Air. See Meteorology {Baro- meter, Ati/iospkeric Pressure). Ground Itch. See Skin-Diseases of THE Tropics {Due to Animal Parasites, Pani Ghao). Ground Water. See Diphtheria {Etio- logij, Lei'i'l (if <iroiii((l Water). Growing^ Pains. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Etiology, Rhe^ima- tism); Hip - Joint, Injuries op {Coxa Vara, Groiving Pains). Growth. See Children, Development AND Clinical Examination of {Groivth in Weight and Length). Growth-Fever. See Bones, Diseases {Pyogenic Diseases, Growth-Fever). Gruber-Wldai Reaction. See Im- munity {Typhoid, Griilier-WidaJ Reaction). Griibler'S Peptone. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Absorption of Food, Mode). Gruebier's Tumour.— A swelling over tlie wrist in cases of lead-poisoning, in which there is paralysis of the ante-brachial type (paralysis of the extensors of the fingers and wrist); the swelling is due to slight displace- ment backward of the bones of the carpus. Gruel. See Invalid Feeding {Prepmred Foods, Diet daring Convalescence). Guagfno. See Balneology {France, Corsica, Sulphur). Guaiaci Lignum.—Lignum vitte ; the heart wood of Gnaiacam officinale, or of Guaiacum sanctum, found in the West Indies. Its chief constituent is Guaiac resin. It is contained in Liquor Sarsct Compositus Concentratus.