FRACTURES 351 step. -Sayre's methoci of treat- ; a broken collar-bone ; Hrst collar-bones at thu same time. The patient is then rendered particularly helpless as the use of both arms is impaired. Dyspncca is a fre- quent and important symptom. Simultan- eous fracture of both clavicles is not necessary or even \isually fatal, but it is often complicated by other injuries. The patient must be kept in bed and in the position best cal- culated to relieve his difficulty in breath- ing, and it should be remembered that there is a marked tendency for the frag- ments to override. The proijnous is good in uncomplicated fractures, but the patient should be warned that there will always be some deformity at the seat of fracture, and that it may be a long time before he regains the power of swinging his arm round his head. In exceptional cases there will be shortening, and in a few cases I have seen non-union, though the ai'm has been useful. A broken collar-bone may be only a part of more severe injuries, and in such cases the surgeon should satisfy himself that there is no paralysis due to pressure upon the underlying- nerves, that the axillary artery and vein are intact, and that the pleura and lung remain uninjured. The formation of exuberant callus is sometimes a very troublesome complication of fractured collar-bone, and it may be neces- sary to perform an extensive surgical operation to remove it. The fracture — esiaecially in children—is often incomplete, and it is then very likely to be overlooked until the formation of callus makes the injury conspicu- ous, when the medical man is blamed because he has not applied a bandage. These incomplete or " greenstick " frac- tures are often seen in babies who have fallen out of bed, or wlio have been dropped by careless nurses, so that the history of the accident may be designedly mis- leading. For this reason I have long taught my pupils that when a baby or young child is brought with the complaint that it has pain and Flo. 2.—Sayre's method of treating fractured collar-bone ; second step. impaired movement at the point of the shoulder, it should always be treated as though tiie clavicle wei'e fractured, even thoiigh no other signs of such an injury can be detected. Treatment.—Any method which keeps the shoulders well back and tlie injured arm at rest is sufficient treatment for a broken collar-bone. Sayre's method (Figs. 1 and 2) is the one usually adopted in this coiuitry. Two pieces of stout strapping are taken, measuring 3 inciies in width Ijy 5 feet in length. One piece of strapping is loosely stitched with the sticky side outwards, round the injured arm opposite the insertion of the deltoid. An assistant is directed to draw the shouldei' downwards and backwards to stretch the clavi- cular fibres of the pectoralis major, and to reduce the displacement of tlie outer fragment of the clavicle. As soon as this is done the F-Ki. 3.—Dia>,'ram to illustrate the vertical position of the upper arm necessary to obtain the best results when there is a ilownward rtisplarement of the outer end of a broken collar- bone. (Chiene and Dobie.) surgeon carries the strapping backwards round the body so that the sticky side adheres to tlie skin (Fig. 1). He then stitches the end, which passes between the side and the arm to the encircling band in the middle of the back. The elbow of the patient is then brought forwards so that the hand lies flat upon the opposite shoulder, and the second piece of strapi^ing (Fig. 2) is carried obliquely across the sound shoulder in such a manner that the point of the elbow on the injui-ed side is re- ceived into a slit made in the strapping, whilst the hand and arm are also covered. A flan- nelette bandage is applied over the strapping to keep everything in place. The position of the arm is an important factor in correcting the displacement, and the more the outer frag- ment is displaced downwards, the more neces- sary is it to keep the upper arm vertical (Fig. 3) ; if the displacement is inwards the upper arm must be placed well across the chest (Fig. 4) , wliilst if the forward displacement is the most marked, the upper arm must be placed as horizoTital as possible (Fig. 5). Sayre's method is unsuited to men wlio liave