GOUT 499 various undoubted indications of a gouty tendency may be exhibited ahnost from infancy onwards ; in other cases the first manifestation of the disease may develop in old age. With regard to bodily conformation it is usually supposed that persons of large frame and vigorous appetite, with a tendency to corpul- ence, are specially predisposed to gout. This is in the main true (such persons eat largely and often take little exercise), but at the same time many of the most typical gouty subjects are thin, pale, and dyspeptic-looking individuals. Climate and Season.—Trousseau stated that one of his patients told him his joints were " barometers," and general clinical appearances at the present day affoixl not a few corroborative examples. The influence of meteorological con- ditions on general well-being (intra-cellular metabolism) is profound, but the nature of that influence is quite unknown. It has long been considei'ed that gouty subjects fare better in an inland and hilly country than at the seaside, and there is a good deal of evidence in support. With regard to seasons, it is generally held that acute attacks of the disease occur with greatest frequency in the spring and autumn, but it is doubtful if this is really so to any noteworthy extent. Drinkmg- Wafer.— It is probable that the drinking-water exercises a greater influence on gout than we know of at present. There is sufficient evidence to indicate that waters rich in lime are unsuitable, and there is little doubt that a combination of a clay soil and lime rich water are particularly injurious. The Blood in Gout Uric Acid.—The blood in gout contains an excess of uric acid. In well-marked cases, and especially during the paroxysm, this can readily be determined by Garrod's thread test, whicli is performed as follows:—To two drachms of serum obtained from a blister (applied at a site other than the inflamed spot) add ten to twelve drops of strong acetic acid. Mix the two fluids, and immerse one or two linen threads, and set aside for twenty-four hours. Then examine with a low power of the microscope, and if a positive result is attained, numerous minute rhombic crystals of lu'ic acid will be found on the submerged part of the thread. But the exact relationship between this increase of uric acid in the blood and the clinical features of the disease is by no means determined. One difficulty in determining this lies in the fact that uric acid is fre([uently present in considerable amount in the blood in conditions which have no known relationship to gout. Specially is this so in leucocythfjemia, when there may be an amount of uric acid present in the blood far in excess of that seen in cases of gout, and yet there are present in these cases none of the clinical features either of acute, chronic, or irregular gout. Similarly with other morbid conditions, e.cf. lead poisoning, although to a much less degree. The writer has recorded {B7-it. Med. Journ. Jan. 28, 1899) the results of an investigation of the blood in cases of pneumonia, malignant disease, chronic Bright's disease, ulcerative endocarditis, and acute aneurysm, in all of which the presence of uric acid could be determined in the limited quantity of blood examined. Similar results have been found by other observers. Petren {Archiv f. exp. Path. ic. Fharm. Bd. xli. 1898) fomid it present in a case of hysterical hfema- temesis and in one of gonorrhosal rheumatism, and he furtlier emphasises its presence in anfcmia as well as other diseases above men- tioned. Weintraud also found that even in the healthy, uric acid can be demonstrated in the blood after the administration in very large amount of articles of diet rich in nucleins. These various points alone prove how inadequate the one factor of lu'ic acid is in the etiology of the disease. Variations in the amount of uric acid in the blood clearly do not constitute the root evil, a fact emphasised by the point already noted, that Magnus Levy has shown that there is no appreciable difterence in the amount of uric acid present in the blood during the acute attack compared to the free interval. 21ie Form in viliich. the Uric Acid circulates.— This is in reality quite unknown. Sir W. Roberts' view has been already referred to, l)Ut as we know so little of the behaviour of the proteids, and also of the acid and alkaline salts of the blood in their relation to uric acid, we must regard his view as a hypothesis and not as a known fact. Alkalinity of the Blood.—Much has been said and written about variations in the alkalinity of the blood being an important factor in the genesis of gouty symptoms. As with some other aspects of the disease, a good deal more is written on the subject than is warranted by facts. Reference has already been made to the importance of Magnus Levy's observations, as indicating that there is no appreciable difterence in the reaction of the blood during the paroxysm compared to the free interval. Notwithstanding the writings of Haig and others, it may safely be asserted that thei-e is no authoritative instance on record in which a diminution in the alkalinity of the blood has l)een clearly estalilished (v. Noorden). The Cellular Cowitituents.—The red blood corpuscles show no material change. The blood - plates exhibit no increase nor other definite abnormality, a point of some interest in connection with the undoubted liability to thrombosis in gouty cases. Balfour has indeed suggested that the phenomena of the acute attack may best be explained on the view of a local thrombosis. The only striking changes