236 FACIAL NERVE, PARALYSIS OF be given in full doses, while measures are at the same time adopted for keeping up the nutrition of the muscles until recovery of the nerve has been established. When ear disease is the cause, it is of primary importance to treat that con- dition, as until it is remedied little good can be expected to result from treatment of the facial paralysis. The cases due to exposure to cold offer the best opportunities for successful treat- ment. In every case of the kind fresh exposure to cold should be avoided, and when it is not possible for the patient t6 remain in the house the affected side of the face should be protected on going out of doors. Counter - irritation behind the ear, in the shape of a blister, or mustai'd leaves several times repeated, is of service. When there is much pain, and the patient is able to remain indoors, hot fomenta- tions to the affected side of the face will give comfort. Little can be expected from drugs administered internally. The view that the condition depended on an interstitial neuritis with swelling of the nerve-sheath and com- pression of the nerve, made it likely that good would result from the use of mercury and iodide of potassium, but the ascertained facts which have revealed a primary degeneration of the nei've elements without interstitial change do not warrant this belief, nor does it seem reason- able to expect that anti-i'heumatic treatment can have any effect on such a state of the nerve. The most potent agent that we can employ in the treatment of the local condition is elec- tricity. The milder cases do not call for such treatment, but when the affection is more pro- nounced the use of galvanism, of such strength as to evoke a moderate contraction of the muscles, is a useful measure for preserving their nutrition until recovery of the nerve results. When there is response to faradism this form of current may be substituted for galvanism, but my own practice is to use galvanism so long as I deem it necessary to continue electrical treatment. Though it is difficult to prove the contention, I am inclined to the belief that too prolonged use of electricity, in any form, is apt to favour the occurrence of subsequent contracture, and that the use of faradism is especially liable to lead to this un- favourable result. However this may be, elec- ti'ical treatment should not be employed when there is any evidence of contractui-e ; but under such circumstances facial massage, combined with warm douching, may prove of service. Facial Spasm. Etiology ...... 236 Symptoms ...... 237 Pathology ...... 238 Diagnosis ...... 239 Prognosis ...... 239 Treatment ...... 240 The facial muscles may be in a state of spasm, clonic or tonic, as a result of many morbid con- ditions of the nervous system, this phenomenon being but one of a number of different manifes- tations which together make up the clinical picture of some disease. The term facial spasm is, however, used in designation of a distinct clinical entity, and when so employed it relates to an affection of the nervous system character- ised by spasm limited to the muscles supplied by one or both facial nerves, or in which, while certain other abnormal phenomena may be present, this is the dominant feature in the case. The spasm is, as a rule, clonic, but it is sometimes tonic; it may involve all or only some of the muscles supplied by the facial nerve, and it may occur in muscles which have either previously manifested no abnormality, or been paralysed. Etiology.—Direct heredity is very excep- tional, but a family history of allied neuroses such as epilepsy and insanity in other members of the family is more common. When more than one member of a family has been affected it is possible that diagnosis has been at fault, the real condition present being simple tic or habit spasm. Females are more prone to attack than males, and the idiopathic form of the affection usually occurs in the later periods of life, as between the ages of forty-five and sixty years. A neurotic temperament, previous manifestations of some other neurosis, and a lowered state of nerve tone consequent on some debilitating influence, may all be precursors of facial spasm, and, according to some observers, dominant among the latter conditions is mental emotion. It is interesting to note in this con- nection that the muscles concerned with emotional movements of the face are those that are most often involved in facial spasm. Another potent factor in causation is some peripheral source of irritation especially occur- ring somewhere in the distribution of the fifth cranial nerve, notably in the orbital region, which some writers consider a more important cause than emotion. Migraine has been the precursor of facial spasm, as has facial neuralgia, but the latter has been a singularly infrequent antecedent considering that an attack of tic douloureux is commonly attended with contrac- tion of the facial muscles. Exposure of the head and face to cold is sometimes a cause, in which case the spasm may be preceded by facial neuralgia. The source of reflex irritation may be situated at a distance, in which category are to be numbered the cases in which uterine or intestinal irritation has appeared to be opera- tive. Many cases in women commence about the climacterium. The repeated performance of some facial movement appears capable of generating the spasm. Then there are cases in which the spasm commences in the muscles supplied by some other nerve, cranial or spinal,