187 ETHNOLOGY science which deals with the races of mankind, more especially in their relations to each other, and ethnography may be simply defined as de- scriptive ethnology. It is now generally admitted that the four fundamental groups into which the various races can be classified were marked off and established as early as the Neolithic or New Stone Age. These four groups are the Negro, the Mongolian, the American, and the Caucasic. Some of the ethnical criteria or features and characters which distinguish the primary groups from each other are of special interest to medical men; such are the anatomical pecu- liarities of the skull, the face, the jaws, the skin, the hair, the nose, and the eyes. The negro race, for instance, in its two subdivisions (African and Oceanic) is characterised by the possession of black woolly hair which appears flat in transverse section, of a dolichocephalic skull, of a prognathous lower jaw, of a broad, flat nose, of a black or dark brown skin which emits a peculiar odour, of large, black, round eyes with a yellowish cornea, and of a stature which is above the average {e.g. 5 ft. 10 in.). With regard, however, to the last-named character, it has to be noted that negro dwarf races, such as the Akkas of Central Africa, the Bushmen, the Batwas, and the Andamanese, are well known; in all these races the average height is less than -5 feet. The Mongoiic rave includes the Mongols, Tartars, Finns, Laps, Magyars, Koreans, Japanese, Tibetans, Burmese, Chinese, Malays, Forniosans, and othei's. These are nearly all of markedly short stature {e.g. 5 ft. 4 in.); they have a yellowish or yellowish- brown skin; their hair is coarse and lank, usually black, and romid in transverse section; they have brachycephalic skulls and meso- gnathous or orthognathous jaws ; the nose is small and often snub; and the eyes are small, black, and oblique, and possess an epicanthic fold {q.v.). To the American group belong the Eskimos, the various tribes of North American Indians, the Aztecs and other Mexican tribes, the Incas and South American tribes, and the Patagonians and Fuegians. The skin in these American races is yellowish brown or coppery; the hair is long and coarse, and almost round in transverse section ; the skull may be dolicho- cephalic or brachycephalic; the stature is above the mean (5 ft. 8 in. or more) ; the jaw is meso- gnathous, and the nose large and arched ; and the eyes are small, round, and straight. The Caucasic, or fourth group of races, includes a large number of varieties. There is first the Hamito-Semitic, containing the Hamitic section (Egyptians, Somalis, Berbers, Basques, Early Greeks, Etrurians, etc.), and the Semitic (Arabs, Assyrians, Syrians, Israelites, Moabites, Phoe- nicians, etc.). Thei-e is, second, the Indo- European, with its Hindu, Dravidic, Iranian (Persian, Afghan, Armenian, Kurdic), Hellenic, Italic, Celtic, Lettic, SlaA'onic (Russian, Bo- hemian, Polish, Bulgarian, Servian, Mon- tenegrin), and Teutonic peoples. There is, third, the Caucasian group properly so called, including Georgians, Circassians, and Avars. There is, fourth, the Indonesian, including chiefly the natives of certain islands in the Pacific (Samoan, Tongan, Maori, Hawaian); and, finally, in a fifth subdivision, are the Ainus. The Caucasic peoples have, as a rule, a white skin ; the hair is long, straight or wavy, flaxen, red, brown, or black, and oval in transverse section ; the skull may be dolichocephalic or brachycephalic ; the jaw is orthognathous ; the nose is large, straight or arched ; the stature is medium (5 ft. 4 in. to 6 ft.); and the eyes are moderately large, straight, and of various shades of colour (blue, black, brown, grey). Some attempts have been made towards a study of Comparative Nosology, and it has been thought that certain races are more susceptible to certain diseases and immune against others. It would appear, for instance, that htemophilia is rare in the negro and pulmonary diseases in the Arab; the Jews also seem to have special tendencies. Ethnological pathology is still, however, largely an miworked subject. Ethyl. —The hypothetical radicle (C,H,,), which enters into the composition of ethyl alcohol (C.,H,P), cthylamine (NC,H^), etc. Ethyl Chloride. See Anaesthetics, Ethyl Chloride. Ethylene.—defiant gas (C.,H^), derived from ethane (CoHg) by the loss of two hydrogen atoms; it is usually got from ethyl alcohol (C.,HyO) by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid at a high temperature; it combines with chlorine, bromine, and iodine to form ethylene chloride (CgH^Cl,), bromide (CoH^Br,), and iodide (C.3H4I.,); the chloride has been used as an anfesthetic and the bromide in epilepsy. Ethyl Nitrite.—There is an official solution of ethyl nitrite (the liqitor ethyl nitritis), a yellow, inflammable liquid, with an odour of apples; it is given, in doses of 20 to 60 m., in the same kind of cases (angina pectoris, dyspncea due to heart disease, etc.) as amyl nitrite and nitro-glycerin. Euca.ine. See Anaesthetics {Local Anasthesia) ; Cocaine {Eucaine) ; Nose, Local Anaesthetics {Eucaine); Teeth {Tooth Ex- traction, Encaine). Eucalyptus Gum.— Red gum or eucalyptus gum is obtained from the bark of various Australian species of eucalyptus ;^ it contains kino-tannic acid, catechin or catechinic acid, and pyrocatechin or catechol; it is an astringent, and is used in diarrhoea and dysentery (dose, 2 to 5 grains), and, as the Trochiscus