520 GOUT beneficial in a given case of chronic gout should be considered applicable only to the individual in question, and no generalisations whatever should be made from it applicable to the disease. There is no single line of attack on the disease. Every case of gout has to be considered on its own merits. The patient is a small, thin, rather pale, but not cachectic subject. There is no hereditary history of any importance, but the patient knows very little about his family. As a young- man he was a keen football player, and partook freely of port wine and whisky. His diet has been the ordinary mixed diet of his class, the only noteworthy point being his strong aversion to fats. His occupation conduces to a very sedentary life. About the age of 28, shortly after the end of his football career, he had his first experience of acute gout, which involved the ankles. About eight or ten months later he had a second attack, involving the wrists and back of hands, and thereafter he had an attack about three times a year, each one in- capacitating him for about two or three weeks. During these attacks he was kept on a light febrile diet, but in the intervals his food was an ordinary mixed diet, with occasional indulgences in liquor. Two years ago he was off work for seventeen out of the fifty-two weeks of the year, this period representing at least three severe attacks. At this time, even in the intervals, he was much troubled with pains and discomfort in connection with the numerous gouty deposits that were now developed, the position and size of the swellings interfering with the sitting position adopted by tailors, and also with his sewing powers. About eighteen months ago his medical adviser suggested surgical interference, and he was admitted to hospital for this purpose. He then presented all the typical features of a very pronounced case of chronic tophaceous gout. The ears were the seat of numerous character- istic gouty deposits. The extensor aspects of several fingers, especially those of the right hand, most used at his work, showed the presence of nodular swellings, varying in size from a small bean to a small marble. It was not easy to determine whether these were truly subcutaneous or connected with the tendon sheaths. The second joint of the right middle finger was enlarged, swollen, and tender. The subcutaneous tissue of the feet and ankles was the seat of several large swell- ings, varying in size from a marble to that of a small orange, one of which had burst and exuded crystals of urate of soda. A similar swelling was present over the left olecranon process. The joint structures as a whole were remarkably free. Five of these tumours were removed, two from the neighbourhood of each ankle, and one from the elbow. They consisted of masses of urate of soda crystals, embedded in thickened and degenerated connective tissue. Patient has enjoyed very much better health since the operation, and he has not been a day off work for more than a year. His regular diet has not been materially changed, but both he and his wife agree that he is now almost a total abstainer. His diet is now as follows— Breakfast.—Porridge and milk. One and a half breakfast cups of tea, with moderate amount of sugar. Bread and butter, and usually an egg or fish. Dinner.—This may be either soup (broth, rice, or potato) and meat (boiled, stewed, or steak), or meat and a pudding (suet pud- dings of all kinds and rice puddings). Green vegetables are taken probably two days a week ; potatoes are taken sparingly, and bread in fair amount. Tea.—An egg or fish ; bread, toast; one and a half breakfast cups of tea, and frequently jam. Supper.—Glass of milk, often with a little bread and butter. In addition to the foregoing he drinks large quantities of water between his meals, and under this regime he now enjoys practically perfect health, although the right middle finger may occasionally give him a little discomfort, otherwise the tophi originally present have re- mained unaltered. No hydro therapeutic or other special remedial measures have been employed, for obvious reasons, and yet the results of treatment must be regarded as highly satisfactory. Such a result must, however, on no account be interpreted as minimising the great value of hydro therapeutic and other measures calculated to stimulate the eliminative powers of nature and promote a more healthy tone and general metabolism. It is probably more wisely interpreted as indicating that when nature is relieved from the injurious effects of even one noxious agent (in this case the alcohol), she may find herself competent to restore a fair nitrogenous equilibrium on a rational mixed diet. In this case surgical measures certainly assisted to give him a fresh start in the path of normal metabolism. 5. Mrs. E., 55. i. Peripheral neuritis and vascular disturbances. ii. Lumbago. iii. Headaches. iv. Tophi. Mrs. E. is a stout, typically gouty-looking subject, of plethoric habit, who has lived an active town life and has lived well. Of late years she has restricted her diet slightly, more, however, in accord with the teachings of her own experience, than as a result of medical advice which she seeks, but does not readily follow. There is a distinct hereditary history, a brother and two uncles being afflicted with well-defined gouty manifestations. Patient has