(iENERAL PARALYSIS 429 atrophy or fatty degeneration, or exhibit hccma- tomata or extensive ecchymoscs as the result of slight injury, etc. The hones tend to become more brittle and more easily fractured. Special arthropathies also sometimes occur. Remissions of the symptoms may occur during the earlier stages of the disease. These remis- sions are most frequent in cases with maniacal excitement, and in which alcohol has been a factor in the causation. The remission may be complete, so that the patient may resume work for a time. Seldom is there more than one complete remission. The stadium dementict is the third and final stage, and extends over a period of an avei'age duration of one year. The dementia becomes more marked. There is loss of sj^ecial and common sensation; objects, persons, and places are no longer recognised; the condition is almost purely negative, and the patient is incapable of self-care; occasionally there may be traces of former hallucinations or delusions, or brief attacks of excitement occiu'. AVith the mental heV)etude there is neglect of the daily wants of nature ; vesical and rectal troubles appear; ataxia gives way to paresis, and the patient becomes helpless and bed-i'idden. The circulatory and respiratory functions are affected, and dyspnoea and syncope from heart failure are common. Tremors, spasms, atrophies, contrac- tures, teeth-grinding, decubitus, and dysphagia become more pronounced, and death occurs through intestinal, renal, or vesical inflamma- tions, bed-sores, septic infection, congestive seizures, or by oedema of lungs, pneumonia, embolism, or cerebral effusions. The duration of a typical case is therefore about three years. In galloping cases, however, death may ensue within a few months of the onset. In some tabetic cases the duration is of great length, and may extend over six or seven years. Some of the syphilitic and parasyphilitic cases also run through a protracted course. The Diagnosis is often extremely difficult in the earlier stages. When we remember that the progressive paralysis may start with almost any form of mental or physical disorder the difficulty can be readily appreciated. Careful attention to any history of syphilis or alcohol in the case, and the presence of any of the physical symptoms already enumerated, will aid in coming to a decision. A differential diagnosis will have to be made from alcoholic disorders, which may simulate general paralysis in almost every par- ticular, but from which the patient may recover; syphilitic cerebral affections, already considered; lead poisoning ; convulsions of kidney disease; cerebral tumours; tabes; various systemic spinal lesions, with associated mental symptoms; disseminated sclerosis ; paralysis agitans ; sun- stroke ; epilepsy; apoplexy; various pseudo- general paralyses, which form sequela; to fevers, malaria, traumatisms, etc. Forms of General Faralysis.—The following clinical types are recognised :—(1) Acute or galloping general paralysis. The disease nms ;i very rapid course, and may terminate fatally in from two to three months from the onset. When the disease is ushered in by acute delirium there may be rise of temperature ; physical and mental dissolution proceeds rapidly, and death ensues from exhaustion. Fits are not conauon. (2) Ordinary general paralysis, with mania and exaltation of ideas. Usually ])receded by a period of depression, or hypochondriasis. Mani- acal symptoms, with expansive benevolence and a feeling of well-being, supervene. The later stages show nothing characteristic to this group. (3) Melancholic, hypochondriacal, or stuperose general paralysis. Sometimes difficult to detect, but careful attention to the history of the case, syphilis as a factor of causation, and the presence of physical symptoms indicative of paralysis, render a diagnosis possible. Sometimes the depression passes off and mania supervenes. Remissions are not so common as in the mani- acal forms. Fits of various kinds may occur. (4) General paralysis of the double form, or circular general paralysis. The first symptoms may be maniacal, followed by remission; next they may be melancholic and again followed by remission. These attacks may alternate and recur several times before a definite diagnosis can be arrived at; but sooner or later the physical symptoms show themselves and the disease progresses to a fatal end. (5) Progres- sive dementia with general paralysis. The mental symptoms are those of dementia from the outset. There is progressive enfeeblement of all the mental faculties. Fits are common. From being dull and heavy they become fat and fatuous, and in some cases without any maniacal or melancholic symptoms during the course of the disease. (6) Spinal general paralysis, that is, beginning with symptoms of systemic spinal disease. Tabes dorsalis, spastic paraplegia, or disseminated sclerosis may precede general paralysis by several years. Sometimes also general paralysis may be preceded by peri- pheral neuritis. (7) Developmental or adoles- cent general jDaralysis. Sometimes difficult to distinguish from disseminated sclerosis. Parental syphilis is almost invariable. These have already been referred to as cases of congenital para- syphilitic progressive paralysis. (8) Senile general paralysis. Often difficult to distinguish from senile dementia, with brain decay. The physical symptoms are seldom so character- istic of general paralysis as are the mental symptoms. The physical signs are those most relied upon. The presence of excitement, exaltation, euphoria, and expansive benevolence, together with the characteristic affections of speech, fibrillary trembling of tlie muscles of the lips, tongue, face and limbs, spasmodic, convulsive, paralytic