ENZYMES 128 able supar. These enzymes have a widespread distribution throughout the whole of the veget- able and animal kingdoms. They are of great importance for the nutrition of the vegetable and animal organisms, for they dissolve out from the reservoirs of reserve material the various forms of starch and convert them into the combustible forms of sugar. The most important of the diastatic ferments is the diastatic ferment of harley malt, which is employed in brewing. Even while the barley is germinating, a portion of the starch is being converted into maltose and dextrin by the activity of the ferment. The ferment is not killed by the drying process, but it is only on the introduction of the ground malt into warm water that the diastatic action commences pro- perly on the grain. The conversion of starch into dextrin continues until the ferment is killed on boiling the grain. Many people assume that barley really contains two enzymes, one which forms maltose from starcli (maltase), and another which turns starch into dextrin (dextrinase). According to Beyerinck, dextrinase is not prefoi'med in barley, but is artificially produced on drying the malt from an antecedent granulase, by this granulase losing its power of forming maltase, but retaining that of pro- ducing dextrin. The diastatic activity of malt is greatest at 54°-63° C. It rapidly diminishes on raising the temperature higher, and is entirely lost at a temperature above 75° C. Below 60° C. more maltose is formed, above 60° C. more dextrin. A faintly acid reaction of the fluid favours the activity of the malt diastase. Osborne and Wroblewski have lately succeeded in preparing diastase in a relatively pure condition. In particular it has been separated from a carbohydrate and its proteid nature confirmed. (According to W. it resembles an albumose.) Closely resembling malt diastase, which was observed by Dubrunfaut in 1823, are other diastatic ferments which are widely distributed throughout the vegetable kingdom. They have been found in leaves, in seeds, and in the tubercles on the roots of many plants. Similar diastatic ferments are also formed and excreted by the lower fungi, and it is more especially the moulds (Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzte, Penicillium glaucum) which elaborate such fer- ments. The ferment of Aspergillus oryzje is an article of commerce known as takadiastase, and it is also employed as a therapeutic agent. Further, not only the torulse but also some forms of bacteria contain diastatic enzj^mes, e.g. bacillus orthobutylicus, granulobacter buty- licum, and saccharobutylicum, the cholera, " potato," and lactic acid bacilli. Some of these diastatic ferments have been termed " glucases" because they convert starch and maltose into d-glucose. It is especially the diastatic ferment of maize malt, and of some torulae which should be reckoned as glucases, because the diastatic action does not cease on the production of maltose, but continues, thus converting maltose into glucose. Green has shown that in the tubercles on the roots of some plants there exists a diastatic enzyme which converts inulin into levulose, and Bour- gelot has proved that both Aspergillus niger and Penicillium glaucum contain " inulases." Ferments which hydrolyse starch are also widely distributed throughout the animal king- dom. Let us, firstly, deal with the ptyalin of the saliva. The diastatic action of saliva was first observed by Leuchs in 1831. It has been supposed to proceed from the microbes of the mouth, and not from a product of glandular secretion. Yet the great activity of saliva which contains no organic elements does not warrant that assumption On the other hand, it may be considered as definitely proved that ptyalin is not contained in the glandular cells as siich, but as zymogen, from which latter substance ptyalin is only formed during the act of secretion. The saliva of the herbivora has the most powerful diastatic activity, that of the pure carnivora is inert. In the human subject the saliva, both from the parotid and from the submaxillary gland, has diastatic action, likewise the general saliva. According to Griitzner ptyalin is not present in the submaxillary saliva of the pig or the rabbit. Ptyalin can be isolated in a relatively pure condition by the usual methods (precipita- tion by alcohol, extraction with glycerine, pre- cipitation by calcium phosphate). The activity of ptyalin is greatest if the reaction be quite feebly alkaline, neutral, or just faintly acid. Hydrochloric acid is deleterious even in the strength of O'075-O-l per cent; similarly with other acids. But the simultaneous presence of albumin and peptones decreases the injurious action of the acid, hence there is a possibility, which cannot be excluded, that ptyalin, in certain circumstances, may even manifest its activity in the stomach. The optimum tempera- ture for the action of ptyalin is from 38° to 41° (Paschutin). In a dilute solution its activity is destroyed at 65°-67° C. Ptyalin, after a short period of action on starch, forms iTialtose and dextrin ; after a longer period dextrose is also formed from the maltose. Milk sugar undergoes no change by the saliva, bat glycogen does. Boiled starch is much more readily con- verted into sugar than is unboiled starch. The saliva of individuals who are suffering from mercurialism contains but little ptyalin (Claude Bernard). Very closely related to ptyalin are other diastatic enzymes which have been found to possess an extensive distribution throughout the animal organisms. They have recently been more closely studied by E. Fischer and Niebel. In the blood serum of mammals, birds,