184 ERYTHEMA all that are required, with the addition of care- ful bandaging in E. nodosum. III. Erythema pernio {Chilblain).—This is an inflammatory erythema occurring chiefly on the extremities, the ears, and the nose. The first symptom is a slight burning or itching, and this is rapidly followed by the appearance of a circumscribed, dusky-red swelling. The epidermis over the swelling is tense and shiny, and is often raised in the later stages by the exudation beneath, forming a blister with more or less hajmorrhagic contents. On rupture of the blister superficial ulceration may set in, and unless this is carefully attended to, obstinate gangrene. The pathology of the affection is unknown, some authorities ranking it with true frost-bite, while others consider that it is more nearly related to E. multiforme. Certainly the clinical appearances are very suggestive of a papular or vesicular erythema, and the disease would appear to be caused by a damage of either the vessel wall or the vaso- motor nerves. Though it is commonly stated that chilblain occurs in people with a " poor" circulation and a general tendency to cyanosis of the extremities, this is by no means always the case, and a little observation will speedily convince any one that many patients with a strong tendency to blueness of the extremities never suffer from chilblain, while, on the other hand, people without any obvious circulatory defect may be attacked directly the weather turns cold. The treatment is rather prophylactic than remedial. Patients who are liable to the disease should go about warmly clad with woollen hose and gloves in cold weather. The hands and feet may occasionally be soaked in hot mustard and water, of course when no broken chilblains are present, and the stockings may be wrung out of a weak alcoholic solution of capsicum (equal parts of tr. capsici and eau-de-Cologne). Regular friction of the extremities is invalu- able, and brisk daily exercise, especially early in the day, seems to lessen the tendency to vaso- motor irritability. In the early papular stage of chilblain painting the part with tincture of iodine seems to be the most useful measure, but many other stimulating remedies have been re- commended, such as soap liniment, camphorated spirit, turpentine, etc. When broken or ulcerated, protection with some mildly antiseptic ointment, such as the B.P. boric acid ointment, should be carried out. Of internal remedies, cod-liver oil, ichthyol, arsenic, have all been recommended, but they all of them often fail. IV. Erythema induratum (Bazin's Disease). —This comparatively rare disease has attracted considerable attention of late years. Though originally described by Bazin, its existence was almost forgotten until further attention was called to it by Colcott Fox. The eruption occurs chiefly in young women whose occupation necessitates long standing, such as washerwomen and shop assistants. The subjects are also generally sufferers from chilblain, and in some cases have also been attacked by lupus erythematosus. Undoubtedly some of them show signs of the so-called scrofulous diathesis, a point which attracted Bazin's attention and caused him to describe the disease as " Erytheme indure des scrofuleux." The disease usually attacks the lower extremities, its commonest site being the back of the leg at the junction of the lower and middle thirds, but it may also occur anywhere on the arms or legs. The distribution is almost if not quite invariably bilateral. The lesions commence in the hypo- derm as rather diffuse infiltrations, which can be felt before they are seen. As they increase in size they rise to the surface and then appear as indolent nodes of a curious violaceous colour, generally flattened on the surface, hard and somewhat tender to the touch, but not usually spontaneously very painful. In this condition they may last for weeks, finally either fading away, or softening and necrosing, so as to leave punched-out ulcers, a result first described by Jonathan Hutchinson. The resulting ulcers are then extremely slow in healing, though they do not, as a rule, show a very marked tendency to spread. The morbid anatomy and experimental pathology of this disease have been most assiduously worked at lately, but the results are still conflicting, some observers finding all the structural and experimental proofs of tuber- culosis, while others found no evidence of the kind. This merely goes to prove that two diseases were examined under the same name. The diagnosis has to be made from gummatous syphilis, the so-called tuberculous gumma, and occasionally from E. nodosum. From the first the points of distinction are the slower evolution of the lesions, the absence of other signs of past or present syphilis, the greater symmetry of the eruption, and the failure of the therapeutic test by means of potassium iodide. From tuberculous lesions of the gummatous type the disease is distinguished by its symmetry, its invariably attacking the legs, whether elsewhere as well or not, the greater number of the lesions, the fact that the tuberculous nodes generally form abscesses, while those of E. induratum generally slough, and, lastly, the age of the patient, tuberculous gummata being generally limited to children. V. Erythema elevatum diutinum {Crocker). —Under this name Crocker has described a rare disease of the hands and other parts. The erviption consists of erythematous patches and nodules situated on the fingers, knees, elbows, and buttocks. The colour varies from pink to dark purple, and dilated venules are present