EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 93 although not very clearly ; but by the end of the week their positions and relations, along with those of other of the cranial nerve ganglia, can be definitely ascertained. To take the nerves in their order, it has to be noted that the cells on the concave (oral) side of the nasal pit are pyramidal in shape, and have their bases directed towaivls the outside of tlie body ; they indication of the origin of the third or oculo- motor cranial nerve is found in the floor (basal lamina) of the mesencephalon ; while there is a well-mai-ked group of cells in the ventral wall (basal lamina) of the isthnnis rhoml)encephali, from which the fourth or trochlear nerve arises. The Gasserian (or semilunar) ganglion of the fiftli or trigeminal nerve is (juite recognisable. Fio. 15.—Reconstruction of Mall's 26 day embryo. Enlarged about 18 times. III., IV., V., etc., ciauial nerves; A.V., amiitory vesicle; 1, 2, 3, and 4, branchial pockets; T., thyroid gland; B., bronohu.s ; L., liver; A'., kidney. The dotted lines mark tin- extremities ; the spinal nerves and the blood-vessels are indicated. (Vide Mall's article in the Jouriud of MorplwlnjiJ, vol. v., IS'.'l.) may be regarded as an indication of the begin- ning of the olfactory or hrst nerve. There is as yet no trace of an optic nerve ; the primary optic A'esicle is still in communication with the cavity of the fore-brain, and in the secondary optic vesicle (optic cup) two layers of cells can be recognised—a proximal or pigment layer, and a distal or rods-and-cones layer (with a hyaline and a cellular zone). Even at this date a vessel, the arteria centralis retina;, can be seen (Mall's 26 day embryo); it perforates the hyaline zone of the layer of future rods and cones. A possible as is also a small group of cells upon its oph- thalmic branch which constitutes the ciliary ganglion. Fibres forming the large sensory root (dorsal) pass from the ganglion into the hind-brain ; the motor root arises more ventrally from the basal lamina of the hind-brain, and passes into the inferior maxillaiy division of the nerve. A group of cells in the basal lamina of the upper part of the hind-brain represents the sixth or abducent nerve. It is difficult at this age to separate the ganglia of the auditory (eighth) and facial (seventh) nerves : both these