ELECTRICITY 61 station are not infrequent, bnt usually take place at certain times, as when a fresh battery of accumulators is switched on, or the wire of the rheostat might break between the zero point and the sliding spring of the shunt circuit, though this is very unlikely. Any sudden break of the current due to either of these causes would give an uncomfortable shock with a current of 20 m.a., while with the heavy current, such as is used by Apostoli for the electrolysis of fibroids, the consequences might be serious. Next to using the main current or an accu- mulator, the best generator for medical purposes is a battery of Leclanche cells, of which from forty to sixty cells in series will yield sutficient voltage for all purposes. For a stationary battery these should be of thi'ee-pint size, and may be stored in a cupboard or cellar. The smaller the cell the less the efficiency, but for a portable battery small cells are a necessity. Dry cells of the Hellesen-Obach type are then the most useful, as a sufficient number of small wet cells makes too great a weight. They require no attention, and can be placed in any position, but they wear out in about two years, and must be replaced by new ones. In working with batteries it is of the greatest importance to keep all metal contacts clean and screws tightly fixed, and care must be taken to avoid any short circuiting. Sometimes if a battery of wet cells is neglected, one or two cells may become short circuited, as by the zinc rod resting against the carbon. This will soon increase enormously the internal resistance of the cell, and diminish the strength of the battery. Such a cell may be recognised by a brown discoloration appearing at the surface of the liquid, which soon becomes precipitated on the surface of the glass jar. Usually the zincs require scraping, and the liquid in the cell to be filled up every six or twelve months. A galvanic battery, to be efficient for diagnosis and treatment, requires, in addition to a current collector, a reliable galvanometer and a pole commutator or current I'everser. The best galvanometer for a stationary battery is Edelmann's lai'ge horizonal one, cost- ing £10, while for a portable battery Schul- meister's floating galvanometer is the best, cost- ing from =£2 :10s. to £3. All galvanometers for medical work are graduated in milliamperes, and should be provided with a screw shunt to shut off Y^ths of the current from the instrument, thus increasing tenfold its working limit. The current reverser is necessary for diagnosis, while for treatment it is useful to have in addition an automatic current interrupter or reverser, break- ing or reversing the current once or twice a second. This can be ari-anged either by clock- work, or by a separate electro-magnet and spring hammer. Most good batteries are combined to give faradism or galvanism, or both together, from the same pair of binding screws. This is effected by means of De Watteville's switch. Such a battery with galvanometer and acces- sories is priced in Schall's list at from about £12 to £18, according to the number of cells, A simple galvanic battery of twenty-four to thirty- two cells for treatment merely costs from three to four guineas. Small faradic batteries are much cheaper, and can be obtained for 10s. and upwards. A good battery should also have available to place in circuit a metal rheostat graduated to at least 1000 ohms, by the use of which, and a Fig. 4. double current collector, not only can the voltage of the battery be tested from time to time, but the E.M.F. of each cell can be ascer- tained, and a faulty cell thus located. A practical point to remember in treating with galvanism, as with faradism, is to keep the electrodes well soaked and the skin thoroughly moistened, for the amount of current depends as much on the resistance of the circuit as on the voltage, or number of cells used. The skin offers by far the larger part of the total resist- ance, and to make sure of good contact, it is a good plan to place, if convenient, one limb with the indifferent electrode in water. The galvanic current, though perceptible to the sensory nerves during the whole period of its flow, yet, unlike the faradic, stimulates the muscles to contract only at the closure of the circuit, so long as the strength of the current does not vary suddenly during its application. This is true so long as moderate currents only are used, but with powerful currents tetanus may be produced. In normal muscle a quick twitch is produced at make, owing to the stimu- lation of the nerve-endings, and, like the faradic, may be used to stimulate the nerve at a distance