EXPECTORATION 192 only a few cubic centimetres in the day, in others a pint or more. It is important for several reasons to note the quantity : it gives a clue to the progi'ess of the disease; if excessive it may be a serious drain on the system, since as much as 5 per cent of the total nitrogen ex- creted is sometimes eliminated in the sputum ; finally, an abundant expectoration is often an indication for remedies calculated to diminish its amount. Children up to the age of 6 or 7 seldom expectorate. Sputum for examination, however, may sometimes be obtained from the pharynx on a swab. The aged or enfeebled may not expectorate—often a most unfavour- able sign, both as indicating great prostration and causing mechanical embarrassment of the respiration. (2) Colour.—In its simplest form — an in- crease of the normal bronchial secretion—the sputum consists of clear mucus. When the catarrh is more marked the addition of cells gives a whitish yellow, or (from admixture of particles of carbon, etc.) a greyish white colour. With the increase of cells, as the purulent con- dition is reached, the spit becomes yellower or greenish. The exact cause of the bright yellow or green tinge of certain purulent sputa is un- known ; in some cases it may be due to altered hiemoglobin, in others to bile-pigment, and in the others to the action of chromogenic bacteria. The most typical examples of purulent sputa are found where an empyema or hepatic abscess perforates the lung. In the latter case, if the abscess be due to the amoeba coli, the sputum is of a brick-red colour. Another variety of clear translucent sputum (not infrequently, however, slightly blood- stained) occurs in pulmonary oedema, where large quantities of watery fluid—blood serum— may be brought up. In haemoptysis blood may be merely streaked through the sputum, it may be intimately mixed with it, or the expectoration may consist almost wholly of blood. If the blood be well aerated the tint is bright red ; otherwise it is darker and venous. The colour, however, is frequently altered ; the rusty sputum of pneu- monia is well known, in gangrene of the lungs the sputum is often prune-juice coloured, and in other cases where the sputum has been re- tained for a long time, hsematoidin may develop and give a chocolate colour. In carcinoma of the lung the sputum sometimes resembles red- currant jelly ; in chloroma, and in some forms of sarcoma, it is bright green. Black sputum occurs in anthracosis, while in siderosis it may be ochre-colour, and give the iron reaction. If these alterations are due merely to inhaled particles they cease when the patient desists from his occupation. Their persistence after this is indicative of a destructive (generally tuberculous) lesion of the affected lung. (3) Consistence.—The most watery sputum is that of oedema of the lungs ; the most viscid are those consisting largely of mucin, as in the early stage of acute bronchitis. Purulent and muco-purulent sputa lie midway between these extremes. The great viscosity of pneumonia expectoration is probably due, not to mucin, but to the presence of nuclein. The amount of air in the sputum depends partly on its con- sistence and partly on its origin. Cceteris paribus, the air-content is greater in sputa aris- ing from the finer bronchi. (4) Odour.—The expectoi-ation is usually odourless, or, if purulent, has a slightly mawkish smell. If it be retained in the lungs for any time it may become extremely offensive, while very foetid sputa occur in gangrene of the lung and bronchiectasis, in the latter of which espe- cially the odour is most acrid and penetrating. When tyrosin is present the sputum is said to have a cheesy smell. Such aromatic drugs as paraldehyde, turpentine, etc., may communicate their odour to the expectoration. (5) Form.—The more viscid sputa may retain a characteristic shape after expectoration. The well-known nummular spit of phthisis and the less common fibrinous casts in plastic bronchitis are examples of this. Nummules consist of collections of muco-pus, usually about the size of a bean, which tend to remain separate, and float or sink in water according to the amount of air they contain. Another characteristic sputum is one containing small, yellowish, cheesy masses. These are found in three con- ditions— phthisis, bronchiectasis (Dittrich's plugs), and where the caseous masses fi-om the tonsillar crypts contaminate the sputum. Ditt- rich's plugs and tonsillar conci'etions are foetid, and consist of degenerated epithelium, bacteria, crystals, detritus, etc. In phthisis the masses are odourless, and contain numbers of tubercle bacilli. When the expectoration is allowed to stand in a conical glass it frequently separates into three layers—a lower one of cells and the denser constituents generally, a middle, liquid portion, and an upper, frothy layer. (6) Composition. — There are four main varieties of sputum—mucous, purulent, serous, and sanguineous. Commonly, however, an expectoration combines one or more of these characters —sero-sanguineous, muco-purulent, etc. Sputa due to catarrh of the respiratory tract are mucous or muco-purulent; those due to oedema, serous. Transient copious serous expectoration may? follow paracentesis thoracis. It is simply due to passing oedema of the lung. There is some doubt as to whether mucin is present to any considerable extent in the sputum of croupous pneumonia. When the catarrh is severe the cellular elements may increase until the sputum consists almost entirely of pus. An expectoration of pus occurs in pulmonary abscess, perforating empyema, etc. Blood may be found