165 EPILEPTIC INSANITY and persecution, not systematised, but more or less fleeting and changeable, and it is frequently upon these as a basis that many of the insane impulses of epileptics, often of a most terrible nature, are actuated. Such acts may, however, be examples of epileptic automatism. Shipor of the anergic variety is another very conuuon phase, often broken in upon by brief inter- missions of motor restlessness and jactitation. These adventitious mental symptoms may pre- cede or, as is more customary, follow a fit or series of fits, or may occur in both these relationships, or, again, may appear to take the place of and represent the convulsions. The last relationship has been doubted, but it is certain that in some instances where the occurrence of fits shows a definite periodicity, an outcrop of mental symp- toms occasionally occurs and apparently re- places a series of fits which, by experience of the case, those in attendance had learned to then expect; this manifestation has been dignified by the appellation of a special term—epilepsie larve'e. In by far the majority of cases the epileptic neurosis commences before the completion of the developmental period (25), but there are certain rare instances where, after the insanity has existed may years and dementia has supervened, the patient begins to have typical and regularly recurring epileptic fits. Another rare relation- ship of epilepsy to insanity is in a variety of melancholia (convulsive), in the course of wliich a few, perhaps three or four, fits occur in a patient who has passed the developmental period and was not previously the subject of epilepsy (Clouston). Nor must mention be omitted of cases of alcoholic insanity in middle life who develop fits, which recur at longer or shorter intervals, and in whom, contrary to the previous variety, the prognosis is hopeful. The epileptic insane do not live long lives, and a large proportion either succumb to or die with pulmonary tuliereulosis. The diriff/wsis of epileptic insanity is not as a rule difficult. Certain cases sent in to an asylum as epileptics subsequently prove them- selves to be examples of general paralysis,—a mistake readily made in the absence of adequate history and the presence, perhaps, of only a few faint tremors and a doubtful pupillary abnor- mality to suggest the latter malady. The diagnosis from hysteroid attacks is referred to in the article on " Epilepsy." Acts, especially of violence and crime, committed, as far as can be ascertained, in a state of false consciousness by a pei'son who hitherto had been free from fits, present great difficulty, and, when involving medico-legal asjjects as they so often do, the medical expert requires some coui-age to de- finitely diagnose them as manifestations of masked epilepsy (epilepsie larvee). The treatment of epileptic insanity does not medicinally differ from that described above under " Epilepsy." The bromide of potassium alone, or combined with those of amnidnium and sodium, or, of more recent advocacy, the bromide of strontium, may be with advantage administered in doses increased up to thirty or forty grains thi'ice daily, immediately after food, and, to yield their full benefit, should be given regularly over long periods, indeed they should be used as an article of diet. They diminish both the niunber and severity of the fits, and liave a salutary effect upon the frequency and character of the mental pheno- mena. Where maniacal excitement is continued over long intervals, Indian hemp in half-drachm doses of the tincture should be added. For more urgent use, such as in the control of furious maniacal outbursts, chloral is invaluable, especially when the patient is separated from the ward to the quietude of a single room. This drug is also our mainstay in the cutting short of a status epilepticus; in this condition it should be administered per 7-ectum, and one large dose (40 to 60 grains) is less dangerous than several repeated moderate doses. Its cardio-depressant action may be coimteracted by the conjoined administration of brandy, with jjerliaps a subcutaneous injection of atro- pine. As to food, Avhere the dietary is generous, the use of animal food shoidd be limited, but it must be sufficient to replace tissue waste where resort is had to much out-door manual labour, —a most valuable mode of treatment, and one for which colonies are gradually coming into vogue. Strict attention should be paid to the bowels and excretory functions in general; indeed, many hold that certain cases of epilepsy with or without mental phenomena are auto- toxic from an overladen gastro-intestinal tract, or one whose chemistry is faulty. Miich tact and moral jjersuasion is needed in the successful management of a ward where a number of epileptics are together; listen and return a non-conti-oversial answer is a good axiom. Their gregarious instinct may be profitably utilised, I for there is no class of patient so ready to succour a similarly afflicted comrade. Their tendency to quarrelsomeness and pugnacity may be minimised by an ample allowance of floor-area; in other words, epileptics require elbow - room. The recovery rate among this class of patient is considerably less than among the remainder of a mixed asylum popidation, l)ut is sufficiently large to enco^irage every possible effort of those in charge of them. Epilepticism.—The status epilepticus. See EpiLErsv. Epimanes. — The raving stage in in- sanity ; a patient in a paroxysm of insanity. Epinephrin.—An astringent and haniio- static powder prepared from the suprarenal capsule. .See Adrenal Glands, Adrenalin ; Anaesthetics {Other Ancesthetics); Hemisine.