FALLOPIAN TUBES 253 tuberculosis of other parts, and due either to infection from the lilood or from the neigli- 1 louring organs, nor is it possible to exclude blood infection in cases which appear to be primary. Yet primary tuberculous disease has been detected. This fact is not disputed, but there has been much debate as to how the primary infection occurs. Some authorities openly admit that primary tubercle of the tube is practically a venereal disease, that is to say, the tube is infected directly by the semen of a tuberculous man, or, as in the case of syphilis, the tubercle bacillus may be introduced by the finger or the instruments of the gynaecologist. Others hold that the bacillus enters the organism elsewhere, without causing changes at the seat of entrance, and settles in the tube. Possibly, as has been asserted, tubal epithelium damaged by the gonococcus cannot resist the invasion of the bacillus, a condition homologous to tuber- culous disease of the testis following orchitis after gonorrhoea. Tubercle of the tube may justly be called tuberculous salpingitis. The germ attacks the tubal nmcous membrane, irritates it, and sets up inflammation. There is an acute miliary and a more chronic form. All the characteristic appearances of tuberculous disease of a mucous membrane are to be seen. In the acute form there is free round-celled infiltration and scattered tubercle, giant cells are scarce, as the tuberculous masses break down quickly, but the tubercle bacillus abounds. Extensive destruc- tion of the nuicosa takes place, often with infiltration of the muscular coat. In the chronic form the infiltrated plicie swell, the surface of the mucosa becomes covered with granulation tissue, but complete destruction of tile epithelium does not necessarily occur. Through union of the edges of the diseased plicfe cyst-like spaces lined with epithelium may be detected. The tuberculous growth is often exiiberant so as to simulate cancer or sarcoma, giant cells are usually detected in considerable numbers, whilst the specific bacilli disappear. The ostium does not always close, it sometimes discharges the morbid contents of the tube, causing local or general tuberculous peritonitis. When it closes, probably through peritoneal adhesions, the tube dilates and a kind of jiyosalpinx develops. Opinions differ about this "tuberculous pyosalpinx," as it represents a chronic condition, and it is not always possible to feel sure that the condition does not signify a hydro- or pyosalpinx secondarily infected with tubercle. A tuberculous tube may certainly infect the bowel to Avhich it adheres, and its contents sometimes burst into the channel of the gut. On the other hand, a tuberculous tube does not alwaj's go from bad to worse. It may shrivel up, its cheesy contents becoming infiltrated with earthy salts ; its diseased walls undergo a kind of sclerosis through free development of fibi'ous tissue — salpingitis intorstitialis (Whitridge Williams). In a case where the writer opened the peritoneum for diffuse peritonitis involving the tubes, with perfect relief for over a year, the ])atient died of phthisis three years later. Each tube was found cystic like a thick-walled pyosalpinx; the disease was there evidently ipiiescent. This condition is what has been detected in many bodies of women who have died of phthisis, often without a clear history of pelvic disease. An unobstructed tubercidous tube is extremely tortuous through thickening and elongation of its coats bound down to a certain extent by the mesosalpinx. Its canal contains cheesy matter and broken-down tissue. A "tuberculous pyosalpinx" contains similar material floating in pus ; its walls are extremely thick. It is nearly always adherent to adjacent structures, and associated with very evident naked-eye appearances of tuberculous peritonitis. Symjitoins.—When tuberculous peritonitis can be diagnosed by clinical evidence and physical signs, and a circumscribed body is detected in the lateral fornix, that body is almost certain to be a tuberculous tube. Tuberculous salpingitis is seldom acute, dull pelvic pains set in, and a pelvic swelling is detected. When the disease has existed for some time the tube has usually become a pyosalpinx. It can be detected on palpation as a fixed cystic body in the lateral fornix, not always tender', but often painful because of the peritonitis which it sets n\). The patient's health is nearly always impaired. Still, the writer had observed advanced tuber- culous salpingitis in young girls well nourished and apparently in blooming health. Menor- rhagia is notably frequent; possibly some of the blood comes from the tube, or is due to tuber- culous endometritis. Amenorrhoaa, on the other hand, is not rare, being due to deterioration of health. Syphilis of the Tubes.—A syphilitic salpin- gitis has never been accurately determined. Bouchard and Lepine detected gummata, as large as hazel-nuts, in both tubes in a case of syphilis in a woman aged forty. In investigating appearances seen on a diseased tube removed from a syphilitic patient, the observer must remember that salpingitis from gonorrhcea is very probable in such a subject. Ballantyne and Williams detected miliary gummata in the tubes of an infant aged seven months, and, as well as Donhofi', who has recorded a similar case, they seem to have distinguished what may under reserve be reckoned as specific salpingitis. EcHiNOCOCCUS.—A case of echinococcus of the Fallopian tubes with a very definite clinical history is reported by Doleris. The patient, aged thirty-six, was the daughter of a butcher, and had been married for twelve years to a man in the same ti-ade. She lived on the premises where his cattle were slaughtered and where two bulldogs were kept. Shortly after marriage