137 EPIDEMIOLOGY This definition excludes intoxications, dietic and psychical diseases, as well as those arising from physical agencies, such as heat or cold. The distinction fornjerly recognised between pestilential and epidemic diseases, founded on theoretical and obsolete views of their causation, lias now little more than historical interest. Some modern authorities, however, reserve the name of pestilences to plague, yellow fever, and cholera, on account of their extension, from time to time, over large regions and the terrible mortality to which they give rise when they become widely epidemic. Epideniiologically these three diseases present certain notable peculiarities. They are each endemic in one or more centres from which epidemic extensions take their start. They also exhibit in a high degree those variations in spreading and killing power which, in a more or less marked way, characterise all epidemic maladies. These pecu- liarities, and others that could be mentioned, do not, however, retjuire that plague, cholera, and yellow fever should be placed in a separate class by themselves. The relation between epidemic and endemic diseases requires a few words of explanation. The fact that certain diseases are restricted to, or specially prevalent in, particular localities must have been a matter of common observa- tion from the earliest times. The treatise of Hippocrates "On Airs, Waters, and Places" is, in fact, a dissertation on what we should now call endemic influences. A formal distinction, however, between endemic and epidemic dis- eases is not to be found in the works of the Greek, Roman, or Arabian physicians, but appears to have been made for the first time by Galeazzo di Santa Sofia in his Lilier de Fehribus, published in 1014. Strictly speaking, there is no natural class of endemic maladies. Diseases, the most diverse in their characters, have their favourite or ex- clusive haunts. Endemicity depends on one or other of the Following circumstances :—(a) The telluric or climatic conditions peculiar to a region favour the saprophytic growth of a patho- genic microbe, as in the case of cholera, which finds in Lower Bengal and some other places the conditions which enable it to maintain a continuous existence. (A) Conditions peculiar to a particular region or locality favour the life of some insect or other animal which serves as the intermediate host of a pathogenic parasite, as in the instance of the mosquito in relation to malaria, or which acts as the carrier of a dis- ease, as in the case of the tsetse fly. (c) The habits of life and social circumstances of a people in some ciises account for a disease cling- ing to a locality. Overcrowding, want of venti- lation, the housing of cattle along with man, and imperfect burial of the dead, are common to all plague centres. ((/) The presence or ab- sence of other forms of animal or vegetable life may determine the endemicity of a disease. Moulds, for example, favour the growth of the yellow fever bacillus. The division of diseases into epidemic and endemic, as if they formed two nnitually ex- clusive classes, comprehending between them all infective maladies, is quite inadmissible The same disease may l)e at once endemic and ej)idemic. Cholera, as we have just said, is endemic in Lower Bengal, but at intervals it becomes so prevalent there as to assume the character of an epidemy, and from this endemic centre it spreads over continents. Malaria is endemic in more or less defined regions, but in certain seasons it liecomes epidemic in its endemic hainits, and extends far beyond its usual limits. The converse of epidemic is not endemic but sporadic (crTro^aSi.Kos, scattered). An c]jidemie disease often occurs sporadically in inter-epidemic periods. This residts from an attenuation of the virus which permits its infect- ing only a few specially susceptible individuals, from a want of facilities for diftusion, or from a temporary insusceptibility on tiie part of the p(jpulation. Whether an infective disease be sporadic or epidemic will depend on two factors: (a) the resistance of the virus, that is, its capacity of retaining its vitality outside the body; {h) the facilities which the contagium has for eff'ecting an entrance into suscei^tible subjects. It is the latter factor that is of the greatest importance in this connection. (Gonor- rhoea is an infective disease, the virus of which is reproduced in great abundance and for a con- siderable time ; but the gonococcus rapidly loses its infective properties outside the body, and the infection being only communicable by the direct application of the virus to certain mucous surfaces, which in ordinary conditions are not exposed to the contagion, it is impossible that the disease should occur otherwise than sporadi- cally. The virus of measles, on the other hand, although by no means resistant, being readily communicable by simple proximity to the sick, has the opportunity of becoming raj)idly dift'used through a community. It follows that if a sporadic infective disease should undergo a change in its mode of com- nnniication it may assume epidemic characters. Such a change took place in the case of syishilis in the end of the fifteenth centin-y. The con- tagium, from being localised and connnunicable by sexual intercourse only, became generalised in multiform eruptions on tiie skin and mucous mend^rancs, known as the "pockes," by which it was connnunicated in the ordinary intercourse of social and family life, and hence became rapidl}' diffused over Em-ope. As soon as the disease re- sumed its old tyjie, it lost its epidemic characters. The difl'erence between a sporadic and epidemic disease is, thus, not in the natiu-e of the virus, but in the mode in which it is propagated. We have omitted from our definition of an