GLAUCOMA 466 atrophy of the sphincter. The oval dilatation seen in some cases probably shows that the compression has been more severe at some parts of the circle than at others. In chronic glaucoma, on the other hand, the vessels of the iris have time for a compensatory hypertrophy, and the blood-supply is maintained in spite of the gradually rising pressure in the eye ; there is, moreover, little if any pinching of the iris base. In these cases, accordingly, the pupil dilates but little and sometimes not at all. It may remain of normal size and consensually active, even after the eye is blind. In those forms of secondary glaucoma which are associated with posterior synechia, there is of course no dilatation of the pupii. Loss of Accommodation. — The range of accommodation is usually diminished by the onset of glaucoma, probably because the pressure in the eye makes the choroid more tense and increases its resistance to the contraction of the ciliary muscle. In the later stages the muscle atrophies. Changes in the depth of the Anterior Chamber. —Shallowing of the anterior chamber is a common symptom in primary glaucoma, and in the allied forms which are induced by choroidal tumours and retinal ha3morrhage. Deepening of the chamber is characteristic of the secondary glaucoma of serous cyclitis and of congenital buphthalmos. In cases of the former type the lens is pushed forward by accumidation of fluid in the vitreous chamber; in the latter it is pushed backward by retention in the aqueous chamber. Changes of Refraction.—Increase of pressure may influence the refraction in several ways. Supposing the eye to be naturally emmetropic, forward displacement of the lens induces myopia, backward displacement hypermetropia. The elongation of the globe which occurs in the glaucoma of children induces myopia of high degree. In the majority of cases the refraction, if altered at all, is increased. It is often found higher during a glaucomatous attack than before or after. Moderate pressure long continued appears in some cases to induce astigmatism of exceptional kind, the horizontal meridian of the cornea becoming more sharply curved than the vertical. The opposite condition, commonly found after an upward iridectomy, is of course due to a flattening of the vertical meridian induced by the marginal incision. Excavation of the Optic Disc.—Under con- tinued pressure the optic papilla is transformed into a cup. The lamina cribrosa,—the sieve- like part of the sclera which gives passage to the optic nerve fibres,—being the weakest spot in the wall of the eye, is displaced backward, together with the nerve-fibres and blood-vessels which it supports. The firmer ring of sclera around it limits the area of excavation. The nerve-fibres, being bent and stretched over the unyielding margin, suffer atrophy and loss of bulk, and a deep undermined cup results. Cupping is not found during or after a first attack of acute glaucoma, for the atrophy takes time. On examining a cupped disc with the ophthalmoscope by the indirect method, and making small lateral movements of the object lens, we see that the vessels in the plane of the retina have a greater apparent movement than those at the bottom of the cup, and seem to outrun and travel in front of them. By the direct method we see the difference of refraction between the margin and the bottom of the cup, and the depth of the latter may be roughly estimated by remembering that a difference of three dioptres corresponds to a difference of level of about 1 mm. The floor of the cup is paler than the normal disc and more distinctly cribriform, through atrophy of the nerve-fibres. The sides are more or less hidden by the over- hanging margin, so that the vessels seen on the floor are lost to view as they ascend the sides, and reappear changed in number and position as they bend round the margin to gain the retina. Around the margin there is usually some atrophy of the choroid visible as a zone of lighter colour than the adjacent fundus. The vessels are more or less displaced toward the nasal side of the cup. When associated with posterior staphyloma, as in high myopia, the glaucoma cup is larger in diameter than usual; its sides are little if at all undermined ; its vessels are attenuated by elongation and comparatively free from sharp bends or curves. The glaucoma cup is to be distinguished from the so-called physiological cup—a central de- pression often present in the healthy disc—by the fact that it involves the whole area of the disc. From the shallow excavation of simple atrophy it is to be distinguished by its depth and by the sudden bending and interruption of the vessels at its margin. These distinctions, however, are not always easy to make, and when simple atrophy occurs in a disc in which there is already a large physiological cup, the resulting condition may closely resemble the typical glaucoma cup. Pulsation of Retinal Vessels.—The pressure on the retina obstructs the entrance of the arterial and the exit of the venous streams. Hence the arteries are apt to be incompletely filled, the veins congested. Arterial pulsation, rarely visible in a healthy eye, is often to be seen in the area of the disc, or may be induced by light finger pressure on the globe. The veins are rhythmically compressed during each arterial pulsation by the pressure transmitted to them through the vitreous. This venous pulsation occurs only in a small portion of the vein close to its point of exit, for the blood- pressure is lowest here, and compression at this point prevents the expulsion of the blood from the adjacent part of the vessel. It is