391 GALVANIC CAUTERY Ear.—Here the applications are fewer, but the galvanic cautery may be used for the removal of redundant tissue in the meatus, or for perforating the drum membrane, in rare cases. It has also been used for destroying foreign bodies impacted in the meatus, as peas, etc. Qynemlofjy.—Most frequently used as a snare for amjDutation of a hypertrophied cervix uteri. But it is also sometimes employed as a cautery for destroying urethral caruncles. Qenito - urinary Surgery. — For the radical cure of the symptoms which arise in cases of enlarged prostate a special apparatus has been devised by Professor Bottini. It requires a very strong electric current. General Methods, etc.—Local anajsthesia should always be induced before the cautery is used, by means of pledgets of cotton wool, saturated in cocaine (20 per cent), and placed in contact with the affected part for a few minutes before the application is made. The operator must be careful to test the apparatus before using it. All the screws and connections must be clean and firm, and the wires used for connections strong and well insulated. The current must be gradually strengthened till the burner is brought to a white heat. (In contact with the tissues this will just procure the necessary degree of red- ness.) If this be not clone the point may fuse whilst in use, causing inconvenience and delay. It should be borne in mind when the snare is used that the wire requires less current to heat it than do the platinum points, and that the thinner the wire the less current required. If any readjustment be necessary the current from the battery should be cut off before the wires :;re touched by the fingers. When the instrument has thus been tested the terminal is to be applied cold to the desired point, and the current closed by means of the key on the handle. It must be removed from contact with the tissue while still hot, or it will stick, and produce tearing and bleeding in removal. The connections of the points are easily melted if the current be kept closed too long. After removal from the patient the point should be cleaned by heating it to burn oif adhering tissue. With regard to after-trentment, it is important to allow sloughs to fall off before any further application of the cautery is made. An interval of a week or two should therefore elapse between the operations in cases where several applica- tions require to be made. During this time the patient must be exposed as little as possible to septic influences, and this may be aided by the use of antiseptic ointments, sprays, or lotions applied to the attccted part. Galvaniser's Eczema. See Der- :\tATrns Traumatica et Venenata {Chronic Dermatitis). Galvanism. See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Treatment); Athetosis {Treatment); Electricity {Galvanism). GalvanotaxiS.—The movements in cell protoplasm caused by electricity. See Physio LOGY, The C'ell {Protoj^lastn). Galvano-Therapeutics.—The iise of galvanism (electricity developed by chemical action) for the cure of disease or for the relief of pain. See Electricity. GalvanotonuS.—A sustained contrac- tion of muscle which may occur while strong currents are flowing through it. See Physio- locy. Tissues {Muscle, Contraction). GambOgfe.—A gum-resin derived from Oarcinia, llanbiirii. It is imported in the form of reddish-yellow cylindrical masses. It con- tains (1) Gamhogic Acid, a bright yellow resin; (2) Gum. Dose—-|-2 grs. Preimratirm—Pilula Cambogife Composita, containing Barbados Aloes. Dose—4-8 grs. Gamboge is a drastic hydra- gogue purgative. It causes a great deal of irritation of the intestinal mucosa, and its action is accompanied by painful griping. It is seldom prescribed. GambOgre, Indian.—Cambogia Indica is a gum-resin olitained from Garcinia morella ; it is ofticial in the Indian and Colonial Ad- dendum (1900) to the British Pharmacopa^ia of 1898; it is given for the same purposes as Gamboge, and in doses of A to 2 grains. Gametes or Gametocytes. — ite- productive cells before fertilisation. See Malaria {Farasifohigy). Gamma, Ang^le. See Angle Gamma; Refraction {Prisms); Strabismus {A2^parent). Gamma Rays. See Beta Rays; Radiuji. The gamma rays are believed to ))e identical with Rontgen rays ; they are markedly penetrative; and they are not deflected by the action of the magnet. GammacismuS. — Difficulty in pro- nouncing the letters g and I; or complete in- ability to do so. Gangfa. — The dried flowering tops of Cannabis sativa; a synonym of Indian Hemp. See Cannabis Indica. Gangrlia, Basal. See Brain, Physio- LOtiY; Physiology, Nervous System, Spinal Cord and Brain {Cerebrmn). Ganglia, Spinal. See Physiology, Nervous System {Spinal Nerves); Spinal Cord, Medical {Anatomical).