432 GENERATION, FEMALE OEGANS OF conjugate (d. conjugata vera); it passes from the middle of the promontory of the sacrum to the middle of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and it measures from 11 to 11 "5 cm. The transverse diameter at the brim passes between the widest apart portions of the ilio- pectineal lines, and measures 13-5 cm. The diagonal or oblique diameters of the brim are two in number, right and left; the former passes from the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis behind to the left pectineal eminence, while the left passes from the left sacro-iliac behind to the right pectineal eminence in front; each measures 12-5 cm., but strictly Speaking, and on account of the slight physiological deviation of the pelvis to the left side, the right oblique is slightly longer than the left. The oblique diameters, it will also be noted, connect together four bony landmarks, which have been called the cardinal points of Capuron, and so divide the brim into quadrants. The sacro-cotyloidcan diameter is sometimes referred to; it passes from the middle of the sacral promontory to the point on the inside of the pelvis which corre- sponds to the upper and posterior part of the cotyloid cavity on the outside; there is there- fore one on each side, right and left, and it measures 9 cm. The sacro-pectineal or diameter of Burns passes from the middle of the pro- montory to the crest of the pubes immediately above tlie obturator foramen ; it has a length of 10 cm. It is useful to remember that the shortest antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis is not the conjugata vera, but one drawn from the middle of the promontory to the nearest point on the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, a point which is usually about 5 mm. below the upper margin; this is called the diameter minima; and its length is from 10'5 to 11 cm. The pelvic diameters at the outlet are four in number: antero-posterior, trans- verse, and obliques. The antero-posterior passes from the tip of the coccyx to the lower border of the symphysis pubis, and measures with the coccyx pressed backwards, 12 cm.; with it in its usual position, 10 cm. The transverse diameter is the distance between the tubera ischii; it measures 11 cm. The obliques are difficult of exact definition, and they have a varying length in parturition, as the sacro- sciatic ligaments yield a little to the foetal head passing through the outlet. In the cavity of the pelvis various diameters may be measured, but the following are those of most interest. There is the antero-posterior drawn from the third sacral vertebra to the middle of the posterior surface of the symphysis, and measur- ing 12'5 cm.; there is the transverse, passing between the areas of bone on the inside of the pelvis corresponding to the acetabula on the outside, measuring 12 cm.; there is another transverse diameter which is sometimes of im- portance—the bi-ischial, the distance between the ischial spines, measuring 10 cm.; and, finally, there are the obliques of the cavity, right and left, passing from the sciatic foramen on one side to the obturator foramen on the other, and measuring about 13-5 cm. (Fig. 1). In addition to the diameters which have been described there are two others called conjugates, which have a very considerable clinical import- ance, for they can be measured during life. These are the diagonal conjugate or sacro- subpubic diameter, and the external conjugate or diameter of Baudelocque. The former is drawn from the middle of the promontory to the lower border of the symphysis pubis, and measures from 12 to 12-5 cm. ; from it the conjugata vera can be de- duced by the sub- ti-action of 2 cm. The external con- jugate is measured from the spine of the last lumbar vertebra to the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and in order to get the right spinous process in the liv- ing subject it is well to draw a line connecting the de- pressions represent- ing the posterior superior iliac spines and the second spinous process, above this is that of the fifth lumbar vertebra. This diameter is 18 cm. in the osseous pelvis, and 19-5 cm. in the living woman. By the inclination or ohliquity of the pelvis is meant that it is not in the axis of the body, but placed obliquely to it, as is shown by the fact that in the erect posture the sacral pro- montory is 9 cm. above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, while the tip of the coccyx is about 2 cm. above the level of the lower margin of the symphysis. The degree of the inclination of the inlet is found by measuring the angle which the antero-posterior diameter of the brim when prolonged makes with the horizon; it is about 60°; in the same way the inclination of the outlet is 10° or 11°, but when the coccyx is pressed backwards the antero-posterior diameter corresponds with the horizon. In the recumbent posture with the sacrum raised the pelvic inclina- tion is 25°; in the same posture with the legs hanging freely over the edge of the table the greatest inclination is obtained (about 10°). Planes of the pelvis are often referred to in descriptions of the mechanism of labour. The plane of any part of the pelvis is a surface supposed to touch all points in the circumference of that part; thus the plane of the brim is an Fig. 1.—Axes of the pelvis : P, pro- montory of the sacrum ; C, coccyx; S, symphysis pubis ; /, umbilicus ; PS, plane of the superior strait; CL, plane of the inferior strait; HH', line of the horizon; IMA, axis of the .superior strait; AE, axis of inferior strait; MAR, curve of Carus ; PBL, obliquity of superior strait; CLH, obli- quity of the inferior strait. (After Dorland.)