ECLAMPSIA 6 dromal syn)ptom of eclampsia may be said to show itself the moment a pregnant woman passes urine containing albumin, if previously her urine was healthy. In this connection the following rule may be given. It is advisable to examine the urine of every pregnant woman during the sixth and seventh months, and to ascertain the amomit passed in twenty-four hours. It is absolutely necessary to do so if from her history or appearance we have any grounds for supposing that she may be suffering from Bright's disease. The more immediate prodromal symptoms of eclampsia occur a short time before the onset of the fits in the great majority of cases. The earliest possible recog- nition of these symptoms is a matter of neces- sity, as by so doing it is possible in many cases to completely ward off the threatened attack. They consist in complete or partial, temporary' or permanent, loss of vision, flashes of light before the eyes, vertigo, headache, drowsiness, mental depression, nausea, constipation, and epigastric pain. Coincidently with the fore- going the amount of urine passed is markedly diminished, and the amount of albumin in it increased. (2) Actual Symptoms.—The actual symptoms commence with the onset of the fits. Eclampsia rarely or never is met with before the sixth month. It most commonly occurs between the eighth month and full term, and sometimes starts during the puerperium. A fit lasts from one to one and a half minutes, and consists of three stages—a pi'eliminary stage, a tonic stage, and a clonic stage, followed by a varying period of coma. The preliminary stage lasts from a half to one minute. It consists of various con- vulsive movements of the head and facial muscles. The eyelids twitch vigorously, the eyeballs are deviated to the left and upwards, the nostrils quiver, and spasms of the muscles of respiration occur. The tonic stage then commences and lasts from fifteen to twenty seconds. The patient becomes rigid, the head thrown back- wards and to the left, the trunk in a position of opisthotonos. Respiration is arrested, the jaws are tightly clenched, and the tongue, which was protruded in the preliminary stage, may be violently bitten. The clonic stage follows, and lasts a varying period, the tonic spasms passing- off gradually, and being replaced by sharp rhythmical movements—the patient " works." Finally, the clonic movements cease, respiration returns, and the patient lies in a condition of deep coma. The duration of the coma varies according to the number of fits which the patient has had. At first it only lasts for a few minutes, but as the number of the fits increase it lasts in the intervals between them. The number of fits vary greatly. The patient may only have one, while on the other hand as many as a hundred have occurred. They may pass off entirely for a time, and then recur. In a severe case they follow one another at ever shortening intervals. In such a case the heart's action soon becomes affected, and is frequent and weak, and finally intermittent. The lungs are also involved, and become congested, partly as a result of the failure of the heart, and partly from the irritation caused by the entrance of particles of food and mucus—deglutition pneu- monia. The temperature, which at first was normal, gradually rises as the fits recur, and may finally reach a height of 104° F. Total or partial loss of vision is also of frequent occur- rence. There is almost complete suppression of urine and constipation. Diagnosis.—The foregoing description of an eclamptic attack is the description of a typical case. It must be borne in mind that the greatest divergence from this type may be met with, and that the attack may assume the most atypical forms. For this reason too much reliance must not be placed on the form of the convulsion in making a diagnosis of the nature of the case. More information will be obtained hy studying the prodromata, the history of the case, and the attendant symptoms. Eclampsia must be distinguished from epi- lepsy, hysteria, drunken delirium and coma, and the coma and convulsions of meningeal and cere- bral disease. As a general rule, it may be stated that every form of convulsion in a pregnant woman who is suffering from renal disease should be regarded as eclamptic in origin until the reverse is proved. Epilepsy may be re- cognised by the history of former attacks, by the absence of the usual eclamptic prodromata, by the initial epileptic aura, by the sharp onset of the convulsive seizure, and by the usually complete absence of all renal symptoms. Hysteria is recognised by the extreme irre- gularity of the convulsion, by the absence of respiratory spasm and of all actions which would hurt the patient, the absence or loss of con- sciousness, and the passage of large quantities of pale urine. Alcoholic coma and delirium may be sus- pected from the history of the case and the spirituous odour of the breath. It can be definitely recognised, as it gradually passes off and does not recur. The urine also is probably free from albumin. The coma and convulsions of meningeal and cerebral disease may be indistinguishable from those of eclampsia if the history of the onset of the case cannot be obtained. It must not be forgotten that the two conditions may coexist, as cerebral haemorrhage occasionally occurs in the course of eclampsia. Complications.—The principal complications of eclampsia, if indeed they can be considered as such, and not rather as integral parts of the disease, are failure of the heart and consequent oedema of the lungs. Cerebral haemorrhage may occur from the rupture of a vessel during