331 FOOD on various parts of the coast for fattening, the conclusion of Herdman and Boyce is that the green colour is due to cojjper. In the case of the Marennes oyster the presence of greenness is due to a pigment not associated with coppei-. III. Milk and Milk Products Milk is an exceedingly important article of food. Breast milk is, or at all events ought to be, the sole food in the earlier months of life ; cows' milk is used to a greater or less extent throughout the whole of life, and is largely relied upon in many forms of illness. The quantity of cows' milk consumed l)y a communitj^ is evidence of its importance as an article of food. About 24,000 gallons are supplied every day to the city of Liverpool, rejjresenting a daily allowance of about one-third of a pint per head of the population. Rather more than half that amount, say approximately 12,500 gallons, is supplied from cows kept in cowsheds within the city boundaries; the remainder, viz. about 11,500 gallons, is imported from various farms in the neighbouring counties. Probably most towns in the kingdom are similarly circum- stanced In order to ensure that the milk shall be wholesome, it is a first essential that the cow from which it is taken shall be healthy, and that its surroundings are healthy, the shippon or byre having adequate space, from at least ■600 to 800 cubic feet per cow, being also well lighted, well ventilated, and kept clean in every detail. If these precautions are not rigorously observed, the cow is extremely liable to tuber- culosis, commonly of the lungs, as in the case of human beings, but besides the lungs, certain glands, notably the udder, may be affected. It is gratifying to note that throughout the whole country, but more especially in towns where the supervision which is exercised is more efficient, there is a general improvement in the condition of the places where cows are kept. When the udder of the cow is affected with tuberculosis, the tubercle bacilli which are breeding there flow away with the milk, and, still retaining all their activity and virulence, may on entering the stomach infect with tuber- culosis the person consuming the milk. The real preventive remedy clearly is to aim at the root of the evil, and (1st) to have the shippons, or cowsheds, or byres so well con- structed and kept that the cows shall remain under conditions most favourable to health ; and (2nd) to have the cows examined from time to time at appi-opriate intervals, in order to ascertain that they remain healthy. An ad- ditional safeguard, which is in the power of everybody, is to boil the milk for a few seconds, or to sterilise it by raising it to a temperature somewhat below boiling-point, either of which would effectually destroy all tubercle bacilli ; the sterilisation can be readily accomplished if the vessel containing the milk is placed in a saucepan or other suitable vessel containing water, which can be heated to boiling. The question has been mooted as to whether or not, in the event of a cow being so dangerously affected with tul)erculosis as to contaminate the milk, compensation should be paid to the owner if he removes it. It must be remembered that no cow-keeper who wilfully keeps a diseased animal upon his premises would have any claim to sympathy or consideration. No man has a right to sell an article which damages the health of the consumer, without dulj' warning the consumer of the danger that he runs. The consumer is not prepared to meet the risk in the case of milk ; moreover, there is no reason why the cows should suffer at all from tuber- culosis ; in good and sanitary shippons or cow- sheds such a condition is uncommon ; it is only in those which are badly constructed and badly kept that tuberculosis is frequent. In contrasting the relative purity of town and country supplies, it is satisfactory to find that adulteration is not frequent in either case. In both town and country milk, however, adultera- tion with water is found a little more frequently in samples taken on Sundays than on other days. A most important difference is found in the frequency of the presence of the tubercle bacillus in town milk and country milk. It would naturally be thought that, with the very great natural advantages which the country possesses, tubercle would be less frequent than it is in the town. This, however, is very far from being the case, and it is a most serious reflection upon the sanitation of country shippons that tubercle is foiuid more than twice as often in samples from the country as it is in samples from the town : thus, out of 398 town samples (taken from shippons in Liverpool), 20, or 5 per cent, were found to be infected with tubercle, but out of 195 samples taken at the railway stations on arrival from the country, 23, or 11 "8 per cent, were found to be infected. This shows the great need for sanitation of country shippons, and that the consimier should take town milk when he can get it, rather than that sent in from the country, where little or no supervision is exercised. Some valuable information upon the subject of tuberculosis and milk was laid before the two Royal Commissions which were appointed to inquire into the effect on human health of food derived from tuberculous animals : the circum- stances determining danger from milk were gone into at considerable length, and the conclusions arrived at are important, and may be held to rest Tipon the most recent knowledge upon that branch of the subject. The Report of the Royal Commission, April 1895 (paragraph 60), states :—" According to our experience, then, the condition required for ensuring to the milk of tuberculous cows the