GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 434 have a pelvis with a more rounded inlet. In addition to the sexual, age, and racial differences which have been described, it must be remem- bered that pelves of the same age, sex, and race may nevertheless show peculiarities which cannot be called pathological, and must be regarded as individual; no two pelves probably are exactly alike. Further, it is generally found that the pelvis is not symmetrical, but shows sinistro- scoliosis, the symphysis being drawn towards the left (Figs. 2, 3, 4). The Ligamentous Pelvis.—The four bones which make up the osseous pelvis are articulated to each other at the two sacro-iliac synchondroses, at the sacro-coccygeal joint, and at the symphysis pubis. These joints are amphiarthroses ; but the symphysis pubis has by some been considered as a mixed joint, arthrodial behind and amphi- arthrodial in fi'ont, while others have looked upon the sacro-coccygeal as entirely arthrodial. The sacro-iliac articulations, consisting of the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and innominate bones, are held together by four ligaments (anterior, superior, inferior, and posterior); but the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments which pass from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial bones also play a part in maintaining the apposi- tion of the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is small in extent; and the amount of movement possible at the sacro-iliac joints is very limited, but is slightly increased in preg- nancy, and is also greater if the symphysis pubis be divided. The symphysis pubis has consider- able importance at the present time through the revival of the operation of symphysiotomy. The articular surfaces are oval, and between them is an interosseous fibro-cartilage ; they are held together by anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior, or subpubic ligaments. A slight degree of movement is possible at this joint, which is increased if the pubic bones be divided through the obturator foramina; on account of slight swelling and increased moisture of the tissues there is also more marked mobility in pregnancy. An interosseous fibro-cartilage and peripheral ligaments are met with in connection with the sacro-coccygeal joint, which has a considerable range of mobility up to mid-life; but it has to be borne in mind that some movement also occurs between the segments of the coccyx which are united by rudimentary amjahiarthroses. In- deed, some writers are of opinion that the move- ment backwards of the coccyx which occurs in labour really takes place at the first inter- coccygeal joint. The pelvis as a whole is attached to the lumbar part of the spinal column by a median symphysis or amphi- arthrosis and by two lateral arthrodia; it is articulated to the lower limbs at the hip-joints; but these joints do not require special descrip- tion here. The other ligamentous structures of the pelvis are the obturator membranes and Poupart's ligaments : the former close in the obturator foramina and complete the anterior pelvic wall; the latter stretch from the anterior- superior iliac spine to the spine of the pubic bone on each side, and the part of it which is attached to the pubic ci'est is called the ligament of Gimbernat. Internal Generative Organs. — The internal female genital organs include the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, and the uterus; and along with these may be described the parovarium. The organs will first be considered separately, and later their relation to the soft structures filling up the pelvic outlet will be taken up. Ovaries.—The ovaries are two small bodies of an ovoid form lying one on each side of the uterus and having the function of forming ova. They are the distinctive organs of the female. They are situated at the level of the pelvic brim and are attached to the posterior surface of the broad ligament of the uterus by the anterior border alone, and not, as has some- times been stated, by the anterior surface. Their exact position and the direction of their long axis vary slightly with the empty or full condition of the neighbouring hollow viscera. Since they have an ovoid or almond shape they possess two surfaces, two ends, and two borders or margins ; and the long axis is directed obliquely outwards and upwards towards the side of the pelvic brim. The anterior margin (hilum) is attached to the broad ligament, while the posterior is free; the surfaces are better de- scribed as outer and inner than anterior and posterior, and of these the latter is the more convex, the former being flattened; the lower and inner end (uterine pole) is the smaller, and is united to the uterus by the ovarian ligament; the outer end (tubal pole) is more rounded, and is attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube by the pen-shaped ovarian fimbria. Each ovary has dimensions which may roughly be expressed as length 3 cm., width 2 cm., and thickness 1 cm., or in inches 1^- by | by § ; but the size varies much with (a) age, {h) menstrua- tion, and (c) pregnancy, the maximum being attained about six weeks after parturition. The weight varies from 90 to 135 grains, falling as low as 20 grains in old age. The Fallopian tube lies above the ovary in the broad ligament, and its outer end encircles the outer end of the ovary; between the two and lying in the liroad ligament is the parovarium. The ovary itself does not lie between the layers of the broad ligament, but is simply attached to the posterior surface of it by the hilum, at which point enter the vessels and nerves; here can be seen a white line (Farre- Waldeyer's line). The structure of the ovary is somewhat com- plicated. To the naked eye the gland has a pearly or even pinkish hue, with dusky blue spots here and there in it, which represent follicles contain- ing ova, and it shows also yellow spots or old and ruptured follicles. In early life the surface is