426 GENERAL PARALYSIS nerves, the ganglia of the sympathetic, the muscles, and various organs of the body also exhibit evidences of degeneration. The real nature of the pathological pi'ocess is as yet imdetermined, and we do not know how far it may be attributed to the influence of a toxin derived from without or within. Symptoms.—1. Stadium Prodromale.—Some- times the disease comes on suddenly without any warning, but usually there are sensory, motor, or mental symptoms. The sensory warnings are, sudden losses or defects of the special senses, illusions, or hallucinations. The motor are, slight or temporary aphasia, hesita- tion in speech, loss of power of expression, blurring of articulation, tremor of tongue, ataxic or spastic alteration in gait, partial paralysis, convulsive seizures, inequality of pupils, reflex iridoplegia, changes in muscular electric re- actions, altei'ations in handwriting, impairment of highest physical technique. The mental warnings are, loss of highest powers of adjust- ment of the mind to the requirements of the individual's profession or trade, loss of power of attention, restlessness, changes in temper, moral perversions, and loss of control. General insta- bility, fitfulness, undue emotionalism, boastful- ness, expansive benevolence, extravagance, etc. Vaso-motor symptoms, such as congestive attacks, cephalalgia, vertigo, hyperidrosis, local cutaneous hypertemias, cyanosis, gastro-intestinal disorders may occur, or the trophic functions may be deranged, as shown by changes in the skin, hair, nails, muscles, and bones. The secretions may also be altered in their composition. This stadium has an average duration of one year. 2. Stadium Acutum.—Usually ushered in by melancholia, mania, dementia, or by convulsive seizures followed by confusion or stupor. The physical and mental symptoms become more fully developed. This stage usually extends over a period of about a year. The sensory symptoms become more marked in the form of definite illusions or hallucinations ; the tinnitus aurium, deafness, diplopia, amblyopia, colour blindness, anosmia, ageusia, parageusia, and the disturbances of general sensation of the stadium prodromale, now become misinterpreted, and form a partial basis for the development of delusions. Melancholia with hypochondriasis may form the chief mental symptoms, or there may be a maniacal outburst with great exalta- tion, violence and delirium, with rapid advance towards terminal dementia and death. In milder types there may be merely weak-miiided- ness, with or without exaggerated ideas, or megalo-maniacal delusions. Impulsive acts and emotional outbursts are common. Alteration in character is very marked, the docile become irritable, and the hard facile. Seldom do they recognise the disease from which they suffer, even though they themselves may be medical men and able to diagnose it in others. The exaltation, or megalomania, though common in general paralysis, is not invariable nor is it confined to it. The general feeling of benevo- lence in general paralytics, however, is fairly constant, whereas it is not common in alcoholic mania, delusional insanity, or in monomanias of grandeur. Micromania, or the sense of "be- littlement," also occurs, and is usvially associated with some perversion of the cutaneous sense. The memory may be altered in various ways. Sometimes in the earlier stages there is hyper- mnesia or exaltation of memory ; in other cases there is a progressive amnesia from the first. The "law of regression" is here exemplified, in that the loss advances progressively from the unstable and most recent to the stable or more organised acquirements. In these cases of general dissolution of the memory an invariable path is followed, viz. memory of recent events goes first, then that of ideas in general, next feelings, and lastly acts. In instances of partial dissolution the loss also follows an invariable path, viz. proper names, common nouns, adjec- tives and verbs, interjections, gestures. Clini- cally, it is important to note that progressive loss of memory is usually pathognomonic of cerebral degeneration. In the early stages of general paralysis the impairment of memory is sometimes the most marked symptom. Some- times the law of regression undergoes a remission, or the progression may be arrested for a time. Progressive loss of memory, however, is not confined to general paralysis, but may exist in syphilitic disease of the brain or meninges; various organic lesions of the brain, meninges, or vessels ; in association with idiopathic morbid processes, traumatisms, toxic agents, etc. Some- times progressive loss follows upon spinal affections, such as locomotor ataxy or multiple sclerosis ; or it may result from epilepsy, hysteria, somnambulism, chorea, paralysis agitans, asthma, exophthalmic goitre, or myxoedema. Various forms of paramnesia are also common in general paralysis. The special senses may in the earlier stages be exalted and hyperacute, but as the disease pro- gresses they gradually become blunted and defec- tive. Hallucinations of sight and hearing are present at some period in quite 50 per cent of the cases. AncBsthesia of the cutaneous nerves is almost invariable in the later stages. Analgesia is al so a noticeable symptom. U Inar anal gesia (tested by pressure on the trunk of the ulnar nerve in the ulnar groove) is more frequent in general paralysis than in other forms of disease, even than in those which have other severe disturb- ances of sensibility. This sign {ulnar sign) is most common in tabetic forms of general paralysis. The absence of reflex action, when the finger is thrust between the fauces (pharyn- geal sign), is also very commonly met with. The eye symptoms are numerous and of great significance. Transitory defect of vision may