281 FILARIASIS found in elephantiasis as due to their being- unable to pass into tlie circulation througli tlie blocked lymphatics. "Elephantoid Fever" is a term which has been 'applied by Fayrer to the febrile attacks which accompany elephantoid disease, the fever recurring at intervals of weeks, months, or years. Where the attacks recur frequently they may lead to a false diagnosis of malaria, from wliich affection it should, however, be readily distinguished by the local appearances, the prolonged fever, as well as by the absence of tlie malarial parasite from tlie blood, and the ineffectiveness of quinine. PiioriiYLAXis.—Water used for drinking pur- poses should be boiled or filtered, and it is well to keep it stored in covered reservoirs so as to ■exclude the possibility of its becoming infected through mosquitoes. In this connection it is advisable to cite the observation made by Thorpe (1896), who states that 40 per cent of the male population at Nomuka (Friendly Islands) are affected with filarite, the people tlicre drinking the water from many small lakes about which mosquitoes swarm. The chiefs, who keep their water-supply in covered tanks, very rarely or never acquire the disease. Treatment.—Methylene - blue (recommended by Austin Flint), quinine, thymol, etc., exert no appreciable effect upon the blood-filarise. In chyluria the patient should be kept in a re- cumbent position, and avoid fatty food, restrict- ing the use of water. " A single tumblerful of milk will at once give ocular proof of the patency or otherwise of the rupture in the varix. Not until clot and albumin have en- tirely disappeared, and the milk test gives a negative result, should the patient be allowed to quit the recumbent position " (Mansou). It is well to give a saline aperient from time to time. Manson reconinieiids that varicose in- guinal glands should be left alone or supported by a bandage. Chyluria and elephantiasis have been seen to follow operation. In lymphangitis rest, "elevation of the affected part, cooling lotions or warm fomentations, mild aperients, opium to relieve pain, and if tension is great, pricking or scarifying the swollen area under suitable aseptic conditions," are recommended. Maitland (1897) states that his experience has confirmed him in the opinion that " operative measures are called for in many cases of lym- phangitis of filarial origin. Apart from the possibility of removing the parasites themselves, the operation itself relieves the patients from the annoyance caused b_y the recurring attacks of in- rtamniation which so frequently incapacitate them from carrying on their duties. . . . Cases in which there have been attacks of chyluria, or in \vhich ■there is other evidence to show that the obstruc- tion to the circulation of l^'mph is seated high ■up, are not suitable for operation." Maitland a'eports five cases, in four of which it is stated that the filarire persisted or reappeared in the blood. Twenty-four cases had been operated on in the Madras General Hospital during the pre- ceding seven years. In lymph-scrotum Manson advises the same general treatment as before, but recommends excision when the condition is passing into confirmed elephantiasis. In ele- phantiasis of the scrotum, when the tumour is large and ungainly, removal of the scrotum, the penis and testes being retained, is frequently resorted to {see " Scrotum "). In cases of ele- phantiasis of the leg, rest, elevation, massage, and elastic bandaging are used. Mercurial treatment has been found of benefit in early cases of good constitution. In acute cases great relief is experienced after puncturing the dis- tended limb and allowing the pent-up effusion to escape. II. Filaria Ozza/rdi, Manson, 1897.—This filaria was found by Manson in blood sent him by Ozzard, the same having been obtained from aboriginal Indians inhabiting the back country of British Guiana. Elephantiasis, according to Ozzard, does not occur amongst these Indians, and Manson (1898) has never found embryos of F. Bancrofti in specimens of blood sent him by Ozzard and Daniels from the back country, whilst that parasite and elephantiasis occur along the littoral and in settled districts. Manson found filarias in about 50 per cent of the blood specimens sent him from these parts, whilst Daniels (1898) states that he found filariiTC in 134 out of 231 (58 per cent) of the natives he examined. Manson (1897), as also Ozzard and Daniels (1897), afterwards noted the occurrence of blunt and sharp-tailed filarise, in the proportion of 5 : 1, in the blood of these natives. We have here to deal with a mixed infection, the blunt-tailed embryos belonging to F. perstans, the sharp-tailed to F. Ozzardi. The name F. Ozzardi was originally given to both types of embyros, as Ozzard and Daniels believed them to belong to one species. The embryos of F. Ozzardi {see Plate, p. 274) are sharp-tailed, sheathless, very small, measuring 0-173-0-240 by 0-0043-0-005 mm. (Daniels). They move about in the field as does F. 2^er- stans, and are also continuously present in the peripheral circulation. In two post-mortem examinations made by Daniels (1898) on natives who exhibited these embryos in their blood, he succeeded in finding groups of mature filaria^, chiefly females, in the upper part of the mesen- tery, the fat at its base, and about the pancreas. In one of these cases they were, moreover, found in the subpericardial fat. The male worms measured 45 by 0'06 mm., the females 70-80 by 0'12 mm. Daniels subsequently (1899) found two sets of parental forms in a native whose blood contained the two forms of embryos above referred to; the one set of parents were similar to those just described, the others are considered