294 FINGERS sheath freely, and if the suppuration has spread to the forearm incisions there are also required. Subsequent elevation of the limb and antiseptic wet dressings are necessary until suppuration has ceased, when a dry dressing should be substituted. A purgative shoidd be given at the outset, and the general health attended to by suitable tonic and hygienic treatment. Amputation of the finger may be the proper treatment in some cases, especially when the bone is necrosed, or if the destruction of tendons and other soft parts is so great as to afford little hope of the finger being afterwards in any way useful to the individual. In some cases the inflammation is extremely inteiase and spreads rapidly up to the forearm. The condition is really that of a streptococcal cellulitis, and must be treated by free incisions and by continual immersion of the limb in a warm bath of some weak antiseptic. Stimulants ^should be given internally, antistreptococcic serum is of benefit in some cases, but amputa- tion of the arm may be required to save the patient's life. 6. Tumours of all varieties, simple and malignant, may occur in the fingers, affecting the bones or the soft parts. The most common are chondroniata, which consist of hyaline cartilage encapsuled in osseous tissue. They usually originate in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal lines, are elastic and firm unless mucoid degeneration has occurred, painless, as a rule multiple, though sometimes solitary, and at times undergo ossification. They usually arise from the fingers, hands, or feet of children or young adults, and owing to their number, or to the inconvenience they cause, they may require removal. In most cases the best method of removal is by incision of the bony capsule and enucleation of the tumour. Excision of the bone from which they arise, or amputation of the affected fingers, may possibly be advisable if the chondromata are very numerous, or of a mixed sarcomatous nature. 7. Diseases of Bones and Joints.—Acute periostitis and osteomyelitis occur in the fingers as elsewhere. Both conditions may arise from extension to the bone of an ordinary whitlow, and result in partial or more extensive necrosis. Tuberculous Dactylitis.—This disease is of the same pathological nature as tuberculous disease of other bones. It is of fairly common occur- rence in children. The finger is swollen and occasionally painful. The skin, which at an early stage is quite healthy, often, however, presents a red and shiny appearance, with later on evidences of ulceration, sinuses, etc. The necessary treatment varies in different cases. Scraping and excision of the diseased parts may be sufiicient, though amputation is often required. In children the condition closely resembles syphilitic dactylitis. The latter, which is much less common, occurs as a result of either inherited or acquired syphilis. It is essentially a gummatous periostitis, it may result in necrosis of the bone, and the patient often exhibits other signs of syphilis. Rachitic thiclcenings of the ends of the fingers have been observed in severe cases of rickets. Acute synovitis, which is as a rule due to injury, simple chronic synovitis, resulting often in some degree of anchylosis and tuberculous disease of the joints, all occur in the fingers as in other joints. Rheumatism in all its forms frequently attacks the fingers. As one of the sequelae of the acute form there may be an extreme degree of ulnar flexion of the fingers. In the ordinary chronic type the finger-joints are often fusiformly enlarged, and there is more or less fibrous anchylosis with stiffness of the joints, and pain and creaking on movement. Arthritis deformans.—Rheumatoid arthritis in young females often first affects the fingers. It produces a variable degi'ee of swelling about the joints, over which the skin feels hot and is reddened. There is often pain on movement of the fingei's. As the disease progresses one sees well-marked muscular wasting, especially of the interossei, with resulting deformity of the fingers. In most cases grating can be made out owing to bony erosion, and in late stages one finds bony anchylosis. In gout the fingers are affected by occasional premonitory painful twinges, by true attacks of gouty " inflammation," and finally by swelling of the joints, deformity of the digits, and by the presence of tophi over which the skin often ulcerates. Finsen Lig'ht. See Skin, Tuber- culosis {Treatment, Phototherapy); Tumours, Inoperable, Treatment (Phototherapy); X- Rays and Finsen Light. Firearms. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds from Firearms). Fires. See Ventilation and Warming (Open Fires). First Aid. See also Bandages; Frac- tures ; Joints ; etc. — A full account of the theory and practice of first aid is outside the scope of this work, but will be found in the references under literature. The object of the present article is to supply such information as will be found valuable in the various emergency cases which come under the treatment of practitioners. The subject will be discussed in the following order:— (i.) Shock, concussion, and compression, asphyxia following injury or various forms of poisoning. (ii.) Improvised antiseptics, dressings, band- ages, and splints available for wounds, fractures, sprains, and dislocations. (iii.) Means of transport.