405 GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISOEDERS OF INFANCY found in adults, has occasionally been found in children ; the earliest case was at 2i years. Tuberculous ulceration of the stomach is less rare in infancy and early childhood than at any other period. The writei' met with it six times in 270 autopsies in tuberculous children; in three of these the tuberculous chai-acter was verified by microscopic examination. In all the recorded cases there has been extensive tuber- culosis in other parts of the body, often in the intestine and peritoneum. Special symptoms are usually lacking, but fatal htematemesis has been recorded (Bignon), and also perforation with acute peritonitis (Cazin). Hcematemesis is very rare in infancy. Apart from its association with melajna neonatorum and the other causes already mentioned, it is seen occasionally in breast-fed infants in perfect health. On examination it is found that the mother's nipples are cracked and bleeding, and it is evident that the infant has sucked the blood from the nipple, and hence this spiu'ious h;ematemesis. Malignant Groivth. — Only a few cases in infancy and in early childhood have been recorded. Cylindrical-celled epithelioma at the pyloric end of the stomach was found in an infant aged fifteen weeks (CuUingworth). Sar- coma of the stomach at the age of 3-J- years has been recorded (Finlayson); the writer found secondary sarcoma of the stomach in an infant aged six months. Lympliadenomatous growth in the stomach has been seen at the age of eighteen months (Rolleston and Latham). Softening of the stomach (gastro-malacia), like the similar but less common condition in the oesophagus, was at one time thought to be an ante-mortem phenomenon, it is now almost certain that it is entirely the result of jjost- mortem digestion. It appears to be commoner in children than in adults. The softening is generally at the cardiac end of the stomach, which is much thinned, and has a greenish brown colom-, while on the inner surface the black arborescent vessels of the mucosa are seen; occasionally a ragged perforation with thinned, almost diffluent edges occurs, and partially digested food is found in the peritoneal cavity. Disorders op Digestion The disorders of digestion may perhaps be considered most usefully under the headings of their prominent symptoms. Such a method may seem less scientific than the use of a patho- logical classification, but for the clinician, at least, it has the advantage of corresponding with what is certain ratlier than with wh:it is often quite a matter of speculation. In a very large number of the cases of gastro-intestinal disorder in infancy it is impossible to determine whether the disturbance is functional, catarrhal, or even associated with such gross lesions as idceration or membranous inflammation. While, there- fore, it must be recognised that there are such pathological differences, and that in some cases they are recognisable clinically, the subject will be considered here mainly from a clinical stand- point. Flatulence and Colic.—These two conditions are closely associated and are extremely common in infancy. The accumulation of flatus in the stomach or in the intestine is almost always the result of improper feeding ; it may be that one or other constituent — casein, starch, or sugar—is in excess, or the food may be given in too lai'ge quantities or at too short intervals. Flatulence may be due to air drawn into the stomach by sucking at an empty bottle, or at a perforated teat used as a " comforter." But sometimes no cause whatever can be found ; a child fed at the breast with the utmost care may suffer from flatulence and colic, and that too when the breast milk appears to be good. In such cases one can only suspect that the milk may not be so good as it looks; it may contain too much fat, or its composition may be affected by some disturbance of the mother's health ; sometimes it is evidently thin and watery. Colic sometimes occurs where there is no flatulence. Coldness of the extremities and insufficient covering for the abdomen seem responsible for it in some cases; the presence of undigested food, and especially of masses of constipated fteces in the intestine, causes it in others. Occasionally it may be due to the passage along the ureter of small iiric acid concretions, such as are found not very rarely in the pelvis of the kidney in infants. SymjJtoms.—Colic in an infant is easily recog- nised. The child screams during the attack and draws up its legs, the muscles of the abdominal wall being hard and contracted at the time. This may occur at intervals for an hour or more, and then perhaps after the passage of flatus from the mouth or bowel the child be- comes easier ; or the screaming may continue until from sheer exhaustion the child becomes quiet and falls asleep. Such attacks are very apt to occur in the evening, and the child may be quite free from them during the day. When the colic is severe, other symptoms are often noticed ; the infant becomes pale or livid grey about the lips, and there is often slight twitch- ing of the lips, or the eyes are rolled upwards, or the limbs become rigid and the fists clenched. This convulsive tendency may go further, and general convulsions occur. A weakly infant after an attack of colic sometimes becomes quite pale and alarmingly collapsed. Diagnosis.—It is not always easy to deternine the cause of colic in infants. In a large number of the cases some indication of the cause is found in associated symptoms of chronic dyspepsia or gastro-intestinal catarrh, sucli as chi'onic vomit-