4 ECLAMPSIA labour. Volhard attributes renal antemia to the blocking of the nutrient vessels by emboli caused by the action of some coagulation-producing ferment upon the blood. Much more rarely the lesions of true chronic nephritis are found associ- ated with eclampsia, and in a very small propor- tion of cases the renal changes can be attributed to the effects of obstructive suppression of the urine, due to pressure on the ureters (Halbertsma). The same areas of necrosis as are found in the liver are also to be sometimes found in the kidneys, and can be atti'ibuted to like causes. Spleen.—The spleen is enlarged, congested, and diffluent. Subcapsular hajmorrhages and similar areas of necrosis as are found in the liver are sometimes present. Pancreas.—The pancreas also presents areas of necrosis, and may be markedly anfemic. Brain.—The brain is sometimes hypersiemic, sometimes anaemic. There is usually marked oedema, leading to consequent flattening of the convolutions, and minute hcEmorrhages may occur in various parts. Lungs.—The lungs are congested, especially at their bases. There are also sub-pleural ecchymoses, and emboli with necrotic areas are found as in other organs. Foetus and Placenta.—Somewhat similar con- ditions have been found in the liver and kidne3's of the foetus as are described as occurring in the mother. The placenta is frequently the subject of white infarction, and it is suggested that from these areas placental giant-cells may pass into the maternal blood and cause coagulation, as well as acting as emboli. tEtiology.—The number of theories which have been advanced to account for the occurrence of eclampsia is sufficient evidence of the amount of uncertainty with which the pathology of the disease is surrounded. The most important of these are the following :— Frerichs' Theory. — Frerichs' theory, that eclampsia is due to the presence in the blood of urea, or of carbonate of ammonia formed from urea under the influence of some fermentative process, is untenable for several reasons. There has not been found any storage of urea in the liver or muscles in the case of patients who have died of eclampsia; nor, in the case of those who recover, is there any increased quantity excreted. Furthermore, urea has been injected into the blood without causing convulsions. Bouchard even attributes a diuretic effect to it, and under his advice Pinard employed it, as a hypodermic injection, in 1887, in the case of anuric eclamp- tics. The carbonate of ammonium theory has been overthrown by Bernard, who demonstrated the fact that it was present in the same propor- tion in the blood of a healthy man as in that of an eclamptic. Stumpf's Theory.—Stumpf's theory, that the fits are due to the circulation in the blood of some poison produced by an abnormal decom- position in either mother or child, has received a certain amount of revived support of late. Stumpf considers that, " under abnormal pro- cesses of decomposition, a substance free from nitrogen, toxic in its action, perhaps acetone, or a body resembling it which reacts to the same tests, may be formed. That this body produces by its excretion an irritation of the kidneys which may eventually lead to nephritis, has a destructive effect upon the colouring matter of the blood, greatly alters the activity of the liver cells, causes sugar to appear in the urine, and pi'oduces the destruction of the parenchyma of the liver leading to acute yellow atrophy of the organ with the formation of tyrosin and leucin, and induces coma and convulsions from an irrita- tion of tlie brain." Fehling has quite recently lent support to this theory. According to him it may be that the metabolism of the foetus and the transference of the final products into the maternal circulation are of more importance than has hitherto been supposed. The nephritis of pregnancy is, he thinks, most probably not the cause of eclampsia, but the first sign of intoxication, of which eclampsia, if it supervenes, may be the second. The fact that the foetus almost always dies in these cases, the predis- position to eclampsia in the case of multiple pi'egnancy, and the improvement in the prognosis for the mother which the death of the foetus affords, are all in favour of the supposition of the cause of eclampsia being produced in the foetus. Schmorl ascribes eclampsia to an intoxi - cation by coagulation-producing ferments which originate in the placenta. The UrincBmic Theory.—The theory which is perhaps the most widely adopted at present is that the fits are due to the retention of the normal urinary toxines owing to the failure of function on the part of the kidney, i.e. that they are a symptom of urinEemia. To such a poison- ing all the constituents of the urine would contribute. Coincidently with the onset of the premonitory symptoms of eclampsia the urine has been found to diminish in toxicitj'. It also diminishes in amount, so that there must be a consequent retention of the normal urinary toxines in the body. Coincidently with the recovery of the patient the toxicity of the urine increases, as also does the total amount of urine passed. The fact that eclampsia so frequently occurs in patients suffering from renal disease, and that it rarely or never occurs when this condition has been so treated that urinary suppression does not occur, are strong points in favour of this theory; while, on the other hand, the latter furnishes no explanation of the morbid appear- ances which are met with in the liver. Neither does it accoiuit for those cases—about 5 per cent of the entire number—in which there is no evidence of renal disease. The necrotic areas in the liver may, however, be the result of increased