323 FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF tion of a limb, and may even cut through the neck as far as tlie vertebral column, ])ut never causes amputation. The cord is usually inserted into the placenta at or about its centre. It may, however, be placed near the margin (excentric insertion), or upon the edge [battledore insertion), or into the membranes, where its vessels divide into branches running to the placenta {yela- mentous insertion). These irregularities occur when the placenta is not equally developed aroimd the insertion of the primaiy ventral stalk, i.e. the spot at which the allantoic vessels just reach the wall of the ovum. Determination of the Period of Develop- ment.—Duiing the first six or seven weeks of its development the human embryo is in- distinguishable, except by an expert embryolo- gist, from that of birds and other mammals. An embryo, measuring about 7 mm. in length, was actually described in great detail in the Archiv fiir Anatomic und Gynecologie, 1876, by Krause as a human embryo of four weeks' development, the error being exposed several years later by the anatomist His. About the end of the second month definite characteristics appear which serve to distinguish it from the embryos of other creatures. It is usual to speak of the embryo during the first two months, and of the fatus subsequent to that period. The Human Embryo.—Aborted ova of the first two months of gestation frequently show no ti'ace of the embryo. If the ovum sac has ruptured, the embryo escapes with the liquor amnii, and so is lost; but in unruptured ova it is often not found, its disappearance being then due to the disintegration and absorption which rapidly follow upon the death of the embryo at this early period. Under such circumstances the age of the ovum must be estimated from the size and characters of the membranes. The following table gives the diameters of the sac of the ovum at different periods of the first thi'ee months of gestation :— 1 week . . 3-7 X 4 nun. Leopold. 2 weeks . . 12x14 mm. clo. 3 „ . . 25 mm. His. 8 „ . . 4-5 cm. Galabin. 12 „ . . 10 cm. clo. From the second week to the end of the second month the chorion is found covered in all parts with chorionic villi. During the third month the placenta is more or less clearly delineated by the disappearance of the villi over the general chorionic surface. The imi- bilical cord is usually found in whole or part after the end of the first month. During the first thi-ee months aborted ova are usually dis- charged from the uterus without any decidual investiture. The attachments of the foetal to the maternal structures at this period are so delicate that they are easily ruptiu-ed by the uterine contractions, and the chorionic sac is tlins dischai-gcd without its decidual coverings, which usually follow later. When the placenta is formed the foetal attachments are much firmer, and shreds or strips of decidual are usually found adhering to the chorion. Tiie earliest human embryo which has been accurately described belonged to the end of the second week, and measured 2"2 mm. in length (His). The same observer estimates that by the end of the third week it measures 4 mm., and by the end of the fourth week 7 to 7*5 mm. At this period the cephalic and caudal extremi- ties are bent towards the ventral aspect, and the above measurements represent only the long diameter of the flexed embryo, i.e. the cephalo-pelvic diameter ; straightened out it is, of course, much longer. Other points deserving of notice in embryos of the first month are :— (1) The amnion is closely apposed to the dorsal surface, i.e. there is veiy little liquor amnii. (2) Attached to the ventral aspect are the um- bilical vesicle, a pediculated sac measuring 2 to 3 mm. in diameter, and a very short um- bilical cord. (3) The ocular and auditory vesicles are apparent at th£ fourth vieek, and the limbs are represented by small unsegmented lateral buds. During the second month the embryo grows from 8 mm. in length at its beginning to about 20 mm. at its close. During this period marked changes have occurred, which render it easily recognisable as a human embryo. The ventral aspect becomes closed, leading to the disappearance of the umbilical vesicle, and the umbilical cord becomes a pi'ominent structure, lying just above the curved tail-end of the embryo. The abdomen is pro- tuberant owing to the rapid growth of the liver, which even at this early period pre- dominates greatly in size over the other viscera, and the trunk in consequence exceeds the head in girth ; after the eighth week the proportion becomes reversed owing to the rapid increase of the size of the head. At this period eyes, nose, mouth, and ears are formed, and the shape and characters of the pinna are in themselves dis- tinctive of the human species. The limbs are segmented, and the fingers and toes indicated by rows of buds of fairly equal size. The formation of a distinct neck by closure of the lower branchial arches also occurs at the end of the second month. The genital cleft appears, but the external sexual characters are un- differentiated. During the third month the fcetus increases to the length of 7 to 9 cm. The marked in- ci'ease in length during this period is more apparent than real, for it can now be measui-ed from vertex to heel, whereas previously it was measured only from vertex to pelvis. The uml)ilical cord is now as long as the fa'tus, and becomes twisted. The external sexual organs are still undifferentiated, but the presence or