FALLOPIAN TUBES 246 Injuries of the Tubes.—If the Fallopian tube be severed without injury to the structures in its immediate neighbourhood the danger from hsemorrhage is trifling, whilst there is always risk of at least local infection from the tubal mucous membrane. A surgical wound inflicted in an uncomplicated ovariotomy usually heals well as the tubal mucosa is healthy. On the other hand, after the removal of a suppurating tube, unhealthy mucous membrane is exposed on the cut surface of the tube. Hence trouble- some adhesions to intestine, or abscess, may develop around the stump. To avoid such complications suspicious mucosa should be touched with pure tincture of iodine or a crystal of carbolic acid. In a few cases the present writer has treated a suspicious tube like an inflamed appendix. The serous and muscular coats are cut through, and then the mucosa is divided closer to the uterine cornu. The cut edges of the outer coats are, lastly, united with sutures so as to close the raw surface. Unfortunately the tissues of the tube are often in such cases too friable and soft to allow of this manoeuvre. Malformation of the Fallopian Tube.— One tube is sometimes absent, but in uterus unicornis it is often found almost perfect on the side where one cornu of the uterus is suppressed. Sometimes a perfect tube opens into a pregnant cornu which does not communicate with the cervix, so that sperm-cells or fertilised ova must have passed from the opposite appendages. Accessory tubes, with or without a previous canal, are not rarely seen hanging from the upper or lateral aspect of the Fallopian tube; they bear rudimentary fimbriae. Pedunculated bodies with fimbriae, but no canal, sometimes sprout from the mesosalpinx. Kossmann not only insists that they are of Miillerian origin, that is to say, tubal, but also that papillary tumours of the broad ligament are derived from them and not from the parovarium. An accessory ostium, with large fimbriae and a short canal opening into the tubal canal, is a conspicuous object often reported and figured. It may ex- plain some of the phenomena of ectopic gesta- tion, but precise data are wanting. Tubal pregnancy and cases where transmigration of ova must have occurred seem rarely associated with accessory ostia. Atrophy.—The noi-mal senile changes in the tube described by Ballantyne and Williams and by Schnaper may set in prematurely. General atrophy is seen in wasting diseases. A segment of the tube may atrophy when involved in the torsion of an ovai'ian pedicle, or in chronic peri- metritis when a tough band has pressed on it for some time. Under both these conditions the tube may be completely severed. The familiar stretching of the tube over a large broad ligament cyst does not necessarily involve atrophy. If after enucleation the operator leaves the capsule, the tube at once shrinks and may resume its functions. Hypertrophy.—This condition is seen in pregnancy and often in association with uterine myoma. It must be distinguished from oedema frequent when the tube is attached to a malignant or inflamed ovarian tumour. Patency and Foreign Bodies. — Something will be said on the former subject under " Cathe- terism of the Tube." Needles and other foreign bodies have entered the tubal canal. Tubal calculus is a result of salpingitis. Cullen's specimen was one inch in length and S-sliaped. Hernia op the Fallopian Tube.—The tube alone has been found in a hernial sac. This condition probably represents the first stage in ovarian hernia, as Wiart detected it in the body of an infant aged six months, and a second very similar case has been reported. Wiart found that the tube was invested with a mesentery simply derived from the sac itself. In other cases carefully described the tube lay in the sac, but otherwise independent of it, the mesosalpinx having been dragged out of the abdominal cavity with the tube. Over a dozen cases of inguinal tubal hernia have been collected. Boudin re- ports a case of strangulated femoral " salpingo- cele." The patient, aged 50, had been subject to femoral hernia for five years. It suddenly became painful, without vomiting or other gastro-intestinal symptoms. Jaboulay of Lyons operated. The Fallopian tube was found stran- gulated by the neck of the sac, which did not contain either the ovary or any other structure. In Boeckel's case, where a radical operation for the cure of inguinal hernia was performed on a reputed male, a bicornute uterus was found in the sac with a true Fallopian tube and a genital gland which proved on microscopical examina- tion to be a testicle. This case recalls another recorded by Dr. Thomas Chambers, where a reputed female underwent operation for double inguinal hernia. Two bodies like ovaries were removed, but they proved to be ill-developed testes. There is no notice of any Fallopian tube. Esmarch and others have had similar experiences. For further details see Ovaries, Diseases of (Heriiia). The tube does not always follow the ovary into a hernial sac. Inflammation : Salpingitis.—This disease is closely associated with perimetritis and inflam- mation of the ovary. When most clearly " primary " it arises from infection of the mucous membrane derived from the lower part of the genital tract. Hence salpingitis is often seen as a late complication of abortion, labour, and gonorrhoea. In the virgin, salpingitis is some- times distinctly associated with tubercle ; indeed tuberculous disease of the tube has been detected in infancy. But it is reasonable to suppose that chronic leucorrhoea in a sickly or uncleanly subject may end in infection of the tube. Varieties of Salpingitis.—The classification of