(;ouT 503 as these cases are usually adults or older sub- jects, in whom the treatment of the individual case will not differ markedly to whichever <;enus of disease it may he assi^-ned. (See also " llheu- matism.'') In a young subject aff'eeteil with iuHanuuatory or allied conditions in the hands or feet, or other irregular manifestations, especially if there be a distinct hereditary history, the possibility of the gouty nature of the affection should always be kept in mind, and while we must avoid the custom of attributing every morbid action occurring in a gouty habit to the influence of gout, we will be well advised in keeping in view the possibility of such a relationship. Prognoxia.—The prognosis of gout depends on so many circumstances, that it is hardly possible to speak with any precision on the point. Much depends on the age of the patient, the duration of the disease, the presence of complications, especially the state of the kidneys and cardio- vascular system, and on the patient's will power and determination to give full effect to all aj)pro- priate treatment. Kadi case must be judged on its own merits, and if all these things are equal, which they seldom are, the prognosis, both as regards life and recurrence of the attacks, is eminently favourable. But we must admit that in a very small proportion of cases, in whom the disease develops early, and who give fairly full effect to appropriate treatment, there are a few apparently inexplicable recur- rences of the disease. Such cases are, however, very exceptional ; and the guarded prognosis, which is usually advisable, largely depends on the fact that the establishment of a rational and efficient prophylaxis is, from the nature of things, by no means readily attained. The prognosis from the point of view of life insurance will be referred to under that heading. Treatjient (xeneval (Jomideratlom.— As the exact nature of the primary changes which lead to the uratic deposits characteristic of the fully developed disease is unknown, in the treatment we must be content with the adoption of those general and special measures which experience has proved to be beneficial in arresting the fre- quency and severity of their occurrence. These measures vary within wide limits. In the pre- uric-acid days the older writers regarded gout and plethora as j^ractically synonymous, and they recognised two different types: one, the plethora of a healthy and vigorous habit, which is readily acknowledged and seldom misunder- stood ; the other, arising in a constitution more weakly l)y nature or depraved by vitiating influ- ences, is characterised by gouty phenomena which are more liable to mislead. These clinical types still exist, and their careful study and a])preciation will assist in ai-riving at the treat- ment appropriate in different cases. These remarks hold good for the fully-developed dis- ease, but, as we have seen, we ai'e much more fre([uently confronted with the treatment of minor and irregular symptoms, which develop early or late in life, and persist or freijuently recur without ever cidminating in the grosser manifestations. This, the early stage of the disease, is of the first importance. It is calcu- lated to throw light on all the subsequent changes, and has neither received the attention to which it is eminently entitled, nor has it been given the place which it ought to have both in determining the true pathology of the disease and in estal)lishing the treatment best suited to its relief (viile Mr. A., p. 51 (i). In fine, the treatment of gout and the gouty diathesis is essentially a prophylactic one, and the results will depend on the length of time and the care with which the necessary projihylactic measures are carried out. Of the treatment to be recommended and described, general measures relating to an all- round judicious mode of life are of much greater importance than any special medicinal or other remedies. A victim of gout soon learns that there is no radical remedy for his disease, and he sensibly holds himself aloof from all useless interference, relying more on careful regulation of his life, diet, and excretions. In arriving at a knowledge of the apjiropriate treatment, due regard must be paid to any peculiarity of con- stitution, whether natural or acquired, which may vary the aspect of the disease, and, further, the greatest assistance may be obtained from an observant patient, the facts so gained furnishing an important clue to the line of treatment to be followed in any given case. While it is by no means determined that an increased uric-acid formation is a cause of the disease, there are sufficient indications to warrant us regarding a diminution in the prudtictiOH oj uric iicid as an important indication in treat- ment. This can Viest Ijc obtained by, in the first place, regulating, i.e. diminishing, the total (]uantity of food consumed. The fact that throtigh immoderate eating and drinking gout is favoured cannot be gainsaid, and while it is true that the disease may develop in people who arc poorly and inadequately nourished, this fact merely proves that other influences may induce a like result. We must clearly distin- guish between absolute and relative excess of food. By the former is meant that which would be excessive in the most healthy state of the individual constitution ; by the latter we mean that which, although it may not exceed what the individual in a state of health, with mode- rate exercise, might safely indulge in, is yet relatively excessive when health has from any cause deteriorated. So long as the excesses are casual and inconsiderable, the self-adjusting powers of the body are sufUcient to dispose of i them : but when, from extent or continuance.