GANGRENE 396 neuritis has more to do with the disease than the contraction of the vessels. Most common in men between thirty and forty, the gangrene of ergot generally is of the dry variety, and may be very slight or involve a whole limb. (vi.) Symvietrical gangrene or Raynaud's dis- ease, as its name implies, affects both sides of the body, thus differing from senile gangrene. Again, the calibre of the arteries in this disease is not contracted. The disease essentially is either a peripheral neuritis or some deep-seated lesion of the spinal cord. It has been started by sudden mental shock or fright, and generally occurs in women. Maurice Raynaud published his thesis in 1862, and his final contribution in 1874. He described a local syncope, a local asphyxia, and symmetrical gangrene, as three successive stages of this disease. Local Syncope.—Raynaud was inclined to lay stress on the neurotic origin of this disease. Complete pallor of the two hands occurs, or it may be in the toes, one finger or one toe being affected. The principal difficulty is the performance of slight movements, and often no discomfort is complained of. There is analgesia, tactile sense is present, and changes of tempera- ture can be appreciated. The attack may last a few minutes or some hours. It is brought about by slight changes of temperature, such as a cold day in the middle of one or two warm ones, or it may occur periodi- cally after the bath. Neurotics and neurasthenics are the classes in whom it is met with most frequently, and there may be a periodicity in the attack, as after the morning bath. Slighter causes even than this may produce au attack, such as passing from a warm into a colder room. The mild cases do not tend to go on to the later forms of Raynaud's disease. Local Asphyxia.—Either the whole hand or foot on each side of the body becomes purplish black, or the attack is limited to one or two fingers or one or two toes on each side. There appears to be nothing but venous blood circulating in the part affected. Some swelling and a burning or shooting pain accompany the attack, which may last for an hour or two, may often recur, and need not necessarily go on to gangrene. The subsidence of the attack may be sudden or gradual. The more severe cycles last from two to ten months. In addition to the fingers and toes which are most commonly affected, patches may occur on other parts, as about the knees or on the helix of the ear. If the asphyxia persist, then we get the final stage {symmetrical gangrene) of Raynaud. The pain in and darkness of the parts increase, and bullsB may form. There appears to be for a time death of a large area, but this settles down to a more limited portion, as the matrix of a nail or end of a finger. The affection may be simultaneous, or successive parts may become gangrenous. The association of Raynaud's dis- ease with hmmoglohinmia must not be forgotten, as many cases of the two diseases^ running side by side have been reported. The original hypothesis of Raynaud still seems to hold good as the best explanation of the pathology of this disease, viz. " That vaso-motor centre or centres are unduly irritable, that the commonest irritant is from the periphery, as for example cold, and that the efferent impulses from the centre lead to the paroxysmal conti ac- tion of arterioles." (vii.) Gangrene due to Heat or Gold. — (a) Frost-bite.—When a part is exposed to cold the cutaneous capillaries contract, and the part becomes pale and numb, and soon the tissues assume a wax-like appearance. The further results are usually indirect from secondary in- flammation. The symptoms are numbness, tingling, loss of power and sense of weight, generally in the hand or foot. The limb is at first contracted, and shortly afterwards becomes swollen. It is not unusual for parts to look well for some days and then become bluish, dark blue, and finally black. Subsequently a line of demarcation forms, ulceration takes place, and either a toe or a finger, or possibly a foot or hand, is lost. The ulceration may amount simply to a small patch of skin, say about the os calcis or on the outer side of the foot. Morbid Anatomy.—Cold has at first a stimu- lating effect upon the circulation ; but if it be severe or long continued, then the blood in the smaller veins becomes frozen, and the skin assumes very much the appearance that is seen after the iise of the ether spray. The blood is absolutely frozen and there is complete stasis, and when thawing takes place, so much damage has been done to the vessel- wall itself that it permits the blood to pass through, and hence we get those inflammatory changes which are the real cause of gangrene in frost-bite. A still longer exposure and the involvement of a greater extent of surface induces the collection of blood in the larger veins,' and thus the in- ternal organs become oedematous, and there is fatal stupor, coma, and asphyxia. The danger from frost-bite is in pi'oportion to the length of time and extent of surface exposed, and to the power of resistance of the individual. It must be remembered that alcoholics are very liable to frost-bite. Dry cold is said to have a more severe effect than moist cold, and if a wind is blowing the effect will be much more severe. The author had under his care seventeen patients from a crew shipwrecked on the Newfoundland coast. An important observation was made by the men, namely, that those who had not removed the water out of their sea-boots had escaped, while