GOUT 490 that pain in the interior of the bones was a distinct feature. Only very exceptionally does suppuration attend the gouty inflammation. The state of the blood and urine is referred to later (p. 499). While acute gout is commonly a disease of adult life, not appearing as a rule mider the age of thirty-five, there are numerous exceptions to this. In cases where acute manifestations of the disease develop at an earlier date, from the late teens onwards, the paroxysm is less de- clared ; not infrequently all that is manifest is a slight attack of monarticular pain, with red- ness, swelling, and distended veins, lasting for a varying number of hours. Such cases may develop and recur without ever culminating in the classical picture of an acute paroxysm. In severe cases of confirmed and recurring gouty manifestations of an acute nature, metastasis is of very frequent occurrence. The subsequent history of an attack varies within wide limits, and is mainly dependent on the hereditary quality of tissue in each indi- vidual. The more speedily the constitutional disturbance is concluded the less is the risk incurred of the gouty diathesis becoming con- firmed, and the greater the security against the associated ailments entailed by protracted or oft recurrent gout. If appropriate treatment be not assiduously carried out the disease tends to recur, and acquiring force by repetition eventually inflicts its wonted penalties. Attaclcs may recur every year, or even much more frequently, and indeed there is no limit to the irregularities in the frequency or severity of their occiirrence. As a favourable illustration Sir W. Roberts described a case where the first attack, a typical one, occun-ed at the age of twenty-nine, and the next one in the patient's eighty-ninth year. The subserpient local changes similarly vary. Sir Dyce Duckworth has described a case in which careful examination of the joint previously affected revealed no evidence of gouty deposit. On the other hand, we know from Moore's observations that gouty deposits frequently exist in joints that have not been recognised clinically to have been affected with gout. In very severe and chronic cases the weakness in a limb, recovering from an acute attack, is very considerable, and may only be partially recovered from after several months. Such cases are usually accompanied by muscular wasting, and possibly also by nerve degenera- tion, and are usually seen in patients whose natural vigour, originally weak, has been much reduced by the ravages of the disease. Chronic and Irregular Gout It is probably inadvisable to attempt to differentiate these two conditions too closely. To illustrate. One man has a first attack of genuine articular gout when set. 20, and in five years or so he is almost a cripple from the disease. Another man may have the first acute manifestations when set. 28 or 30, and have ten or twelve typical acute attacks before the age of 40, and yet at that age there may be no external evidence of articular or other abnor- mality. A third man set. 40 may have suffered from well-marked symptoms of irregular gout for ten or fifteen years, but has never ex- perienced an acute attack, and, like the preceding- case, may show no distinct external evidence of the disease. The difference between these three clinical types is one of degree and not of kind. If we selected at random a dozen fairly illus- trative cases of the last-mentioned group, and experimented with them as with the lower animals, with the object of inducing typical acute attacks, we would probably be successful in most if not in all the cases. The degree of success would be proportionate to our skill in attaining, without other unsought constitutional distuj-bance, the environment in the digestive tract and in general cell metabolism appropriate to the development of the disease, and the failures would be explained either by faultj' methods of experiment, or, occasionally by special idiosyncrasies of the patient. The ex- periment would doubtless be of further interest as showing different modifications of the acute phases of the disease, corresponding more or less to the great variety in the irregular mani- festations originally present. Just look for a moment at a few of the more important factors which modify the appearances of chronic and irregular gout. These are— (i.) The force of heredity, and the purity of the gouty strain. The last is a factor of very far-reaching importance. (ii.) The state of the digestive tract, e.g. is it tolerably good, as it often is in cases of pure gout, or is it naturally more or less seriously weakened by hereditary weakness (gouty or otherwise) ? The latter group furnishes a familiar class of cases, usually thin, more or less dyspeptic- looking individuals with symptoms mainly gastro-intestinal or nervous. The weak diges- tion seems to act in these cases as a natural safeguard against the more acute articular manifestations. (iii.) The state of the nervous system is an all-important factor in the disease, and especially in its irregular development. A recent clever novelist, in referring to the early demise of one of her feminine characters, recorded the death as due to the combined effects of ennui and luxury. Neither alone, the authoress states, would have been sufficient to kill her, but she could not stand against the allied forces. A fairly accurate lay-picture of not a few cases of irregular gout. The severity of the symptoms is by no means proportionate to the extent of the gouty deposits. This is well illustrated in case 4, p. 519, where