FILARIASIS 282 by Manson to be identical with F. per&tans, a parental form of which he observed in one of his cases of sleeping-siclcness from West Africa. III. Filaria perstans, Manson, 1891. Syn. : F. sanguinis hominis, var. minor, Manson, 1891. —The free embryos {see Plate, p. 274) were discovered before the adult forms. As their name indicates, they are found continuously in the blood, and do not exhibit any periodicity. They have no sheath, are much smaller than the embryos of F. Bancrofti or F. diurna, measuring on an average 0-23 by 0'0045 mm. The dimensions vary with their movements. Manson (1897) describes the embryos as follows :— " The thickest part of the body is about one- third of the distance back from the head ; from this point it gradually slopes off to the abruptly truncated tail. The body is homogeneous throughout, no central granular aggregation and no V-spot or other distinguishing feature being visible.^ The head end is armed with a minute, exceedingly delicate filiform spine set on what looks like a papilla. This spine and papilla are constantly and rapidly protruded and retracted. In addition to very active wriggling movements, F. perstans travels about, often very rapidly, among the corpuscles, the attenuation and extension of its body facilitat- ing its peregrinations. At no time very numer- ous—sometimes three or four on a slide, rarely as many as twenty or thirty—F. perstans can be found as readily by day as by night. It may be associated with F. diurna or with F. nocturna, or with both." The parental forms are probably those de- scribed by Daniels (1899), who found them in a British Guiana native in whose blood both blunt and sharp-tailed {F. Ozzardi) embryos were pre- sent. He found a female and part of a male lying in the subperitoneal connective tissue; these were not encysted. Manson found a parental form in one of his cases of sleeping sickness. The embryos of F. perstans are dis- tinguished from those of F. Ozzardi by having blunt tails. For further details see Manson and Daniels (1898). Geographical Distribution.—F. perstans appears to be confined to the west coast of Africa and the adjoining country, in some dis- tricts as many as 60 per cent of the population being aflfected. It has also been found in British Guiana. Firket (1895), who examined the blood of fifty-four negroes from the Congo at the Antwerp Exposition in 1894, as also children who were being educated at Gyseghem, found filarise in thirty (55 per cent). All the negroes seemed healthy. Some of them had not been in Africa for a year and a half, one of them had ^ Dr. Manson has informed me recently that a minute V-spot is visible by careful examination, especially of stained specimens. been six years in Belgium. Any pathogenetic effects which it may produce are as yet un- known. Craw-craw, a disease described by O'Neil in 1875, is characterised by a papular and pustular eruption resembling scabies; it occurs on the- west coast of Africa. The papules occur singly, in rings, or over the whole body, become con- verted in two days into vesicles and then into> pustules. Actively moving filarise were found by O'Neil in the papules, the worms measviring O'Ol by 0'002 inch, and bearing two black marks at the head end. According to O'Neil the affection is said to be contagious, appearing after an incubation period of three days. He' states that it disappears in cold climates, but returns when the negro returns to a hot climate. (This would indicate the possibility of the worm wandering inward, as suggested by Railliet for F. h(jem<yrrhagi.ca). Sulphur inunctions have been found useless in the treatment of this, malady. Manson (1898) considers that O'Neil may have had to do with F. perstans, which is so frequent in the blood in the regions referred' to. A similar disease has, however, been de- scribed by Nielly (1882), who observed it in a boy who had never been outside France. Nielly found embryos in the blood, whilst the parasites in the skin were apparently more highly de- veloped, possessing an alimentary canal and rudimentary sexual organs. Sleeping Sickness.—F. perstans has beert found in three cases of this disease. From the fact of the frequent occurrence of this parasite- in negroes from the Congo and certain other places in West Africa, the etiological significance of the worm seems doubtful. {See Trypano- somiasis.) IV. Filaria Demarquaii, Manson, 1897.— Found in the blood of apparently healthy natives of St. Vincent and St. Lucia, W.I., only the emVjryos {see Plate) being known. They re- semble those of Bancrofti, except that they are smaller, have no sheath, and are constantly present in the blood. Named after the dis- coverer of the F. sanguinis hominis. V. Filaria diurna, Manson, 1891. Syn.: F. sanguinis hominis, var. major, Manson, 1891. —Only the free embryos of this parasite (see- Plate) are known, the same having been ob- served by Manson in the blood of negroes from the west coast of Africa, Old Calabar, and' Dahomey. They diff'er from those of F. Ban- crofti only in that they appear in the blood during the day and disappear at night. It has therefore^ been assumed that they undergo development in another intermediary host as yet unknown. F. diurna appear in the peripheral circulation at about 8 a.m., increase till mid-day, decrease toward evening, and disappear at 9 p.m. This periodicity has been observed by Manson to be maintained for weeks. He gives reasons for