GIN 451 Gin. See Alcohol {Spirits); Liver, Diseases of {Portal Cirrhosis or Gin-drinker's Liver). Ging'er. — The dried root of Zingiber officinale, found in the East and West Indies. It contains a variety of resins and other bodies, but the most important ingredient is a volatile oil to which it owes its characteristic aromatic flavour. Dose—10-20 grs. Preparations—(1) Syrupus Zingiberis. Dose—^-1 5 ; (2) Tinctura Zingiberis. Dose — 30-60 m. The action of ginger depends on the presence of the volatile oil. It is given as an antispasmodic and carmi- native to allay flatulence, and it is also used as a flavouring agent. It may be added to purga- tive medicines to prevent griping. Ging'ivitiS.—Inflammation of the gums ; ulitis. See Mouth, Diseases of {Diseases of Gums). GingflymuS.—A hinge-likc diartlirodial joint, r.(/. the elbow or the knee. Ginseng'.—A medicine to which the Chinese attribute wonderful remedial powers; it is the root of Aralia ginseng and Aralia qnin- que folia ; and its properties are probably nothing more than those of a demulcent. Girdle-Sensation. .SVe Spinal Cord, Medical {(jeneraJ Syinptomatology, Girdle-sensa- tions) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Objec- tive Symjitom.s, Trmik Awesthesia). Gia.belia,.—Tlie hairless simce at the root of tlie nose between the two superciliary ridges ; also the hairless area over the lower end of the spine above the vertex coccygeus, which is termed g. coccygea. Giabrificins. Antibodies. Giaislier'S Tables. See Meteorology {llygromrtry). Gland. — An organ in the human body having as its function the excretion of matters from the economy, or the elaboration from the blood of matters which serve a useful purpose in the economy. See Physiology, Tissues {Glands); Physiology, Food and Digestion; Liver, Physiology of ; Kidney, Physiology of ; Thyjius Uland ; Thyroid Gland ; etc. etc. Glanders (Farcy). Synonyms. — Gk. /<,(?A(« or /xvyAt^; Lat. Malleus, Eiiuinia ; Ger. Rotz {Wurm); Fr. j\[orve {Farcin); It. 3forva {Farcino) : Span. Muermn. Definition . . . . . .4-51 History ...... 4.51 Geographical Distribution . . . 452 Animals Affected ..... 452 Bacteriology.—Localisation of B. inallei in the Body and Mode of Escape there- from—Morpihology of B. mallei—Stain- ing Reactions — Cultivation — Composi- tion— Products — Behaviour outside the Body {Resistance, etc.)—Mode of Infec- tion—Increase and Decrease of Virulence 452 Immunity. — Natural and Acquired, Re- covery, Agglutination, Serotherapy, etc. . 456 Symptoms ...... 456 Pathology ...... 458 Diagnosis ...... 459 Treatment ...... 459 Prevention ...... 460 See also Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Glanders); Pai,ate, Diseases of {Glanders) ; Peritoneum {Pathology, Bacteriology, Glanders). I. Definition.—Glanders is a specific infectious disease caused by the Bacilhis mallei, usually affecting the horse, mule, or donkey, and at times communicated to man and other animals. Where the disease is localised in the nose or internal organs it is called glanders, the cutaneous form being called farcy. The disease runs an acute, subacute, or chronic course. II. History.—Glanders has been known from ancient times as a disease affecting horses. It was known to Aristoteles and Hippocrates the Hippiatrist, as also to the Roman writers Apsyrtus and Vegetius (1370-90), the last describing " Malleus humidus " and " farcimin- osus." Its contagiousness was recognised in the seventeenth century. Solleysel (1664) considered that it could be conveyed through the air, van Helmont (1682) considered syjahilis identical with glanders. Saunier (1734) gives directions for disinfecting stables, whilst Garsault (1741) and Bourgelat (1764) recommended the im- mediate destruction of glandered horses to- gether with the isolation of those suspected. Abildgaard and Viborg in Denmark at the end of the eighteenth century pi'oved that glanders could be communicated by secretions or pus of diseased animals, less frequently was the virus contained in their blood. Virus which had been dried or exposed to a temperature of 45° C. was innocuous. Similar results were obtained in England by Coleman and Delabere-Blaine. Rayer (1837) proved that glanders was com- municable to man. The first bacteriological investigations were made by Ziirn and Halliei-, Christot and Kiener (1868), sulisequently by Bouchard, Capitan, and Charrin (1881-82), but it was not until 1882 that Loftier and Schlitz isolated the bacillus, and proved finally that glanders or farcy is a specific infectious disease caused only by the Bacillus mallei. The last three French investigators had succeeded in cultivating the bacillus from a man and a horse, and, after several generations in