476 GLYCOGEN has the property of breaking up under the action of ferments (enzymes) and acids into other carbohydrates {e.g. glucose). See Blood {Special Examination, for Glycogen); Liver, Physiology OF {Regulation of Supi^ly of Sugar); Physiology, Tissues {Chemistry of Muscle) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Fate of Food Absorbed, Liver, Glycogenic Function). GIyCOgfe n React ion. —The occurrence of iodophilia in leucocytes is of considerable prac- tical diagnostic importance. The reaction can be demonstrated very simply, using iodine, 1, potas- sium iodide, 3, water, 100, with enough gum arable added to make a syrupy solution. No fixation is required, the dried film being mounted on a slide with a drop of the reagent, and ex- amined after a minute or two. Extracellular brown - stained masses are of no diagnostic moment. Noi'mally the leucocytes are stained pale yellow ; when the glycogen reaction is present some of them take on a deep brown colour or show brownish red granular masses scattered through the protoplasm. The glyco- gen reaction is got in bad antemia, in pneu- monia, and in other acute diseases, but is par- ticularly valuable as a diagnostic of the occur- rence of suppuration. Glycolysis.—The decomposition of glu- cose as accomplished by certain organs and tissues of the body {e.g. pancreas). GlyCOproteidS.—Proteids linked with sugar-like substances {e.g. glucosamine) to form compounds, such as mucin. GlyCOS£ll.—An antiseptic and antirheu- matic drug, being a glycerin ester of mono- salicylic acid. Glycosuria. Introductory . . . . .476 Alimentary (glycosuria .... 476 Puerperal „ {Lactosuria) . 477 From Use of Drugs . . . .477 In various Diseases .... 477 Pentosuria 477 Detection of 477 Tests for. 478 See also Adrenal Glands {Physiology); Anaes- thesia, General Physiology of {Glycosuria after Chloroform) : Brain, Tumours of {Local- ising Symptoms, Urine); Children, Clinical Examination of {Urinary System, Glycosuria); Diabetes Mellitus; Digestion and Metabolism {Absorption and Metabolism of Carbohydrates); Gout {Irregular, Renal System); Influenza {Effects on Different Systems, Kidneys); Invalid Feeding {Cookery in Diabetes); Jaundice {Phos- phorus Poisoning, Symptoms); Liver, Diseases of {Signs of Cirrhosis, Urine); Milk {Thera- peutic Uses); Obesity {Pathological Relations, Glycosuria); Pancreas, Physiology of ; Pan- creas, Diseases of {Pancreatitis, Cysts, Malig- nant Disease, Lithiasis); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Liver in Relation to Absorbed Food) ; Pruritus ; Puerperium, Physiology {Excretory System, " Physiological Diabetes "); Rabies {Period of Excitement, Sugar in Urine); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Clinical Characters, Subacute and Chronic, Urine) ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology, Urinary); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of {Special Symptoms of Gastric Ulcer); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exopjhthalmic Goitre, Symptoms, Urinary) ; Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Sugars) ; Whoofing- Cough {Complications, Urinary Systeni). The term glycosuria is applied to that con- dition in which grape sugar is found temporarily in the urine. Thirst and diuresis, and other diabetic symptoms, are usually absent or very slight. Many authors would apply the term diabetes mellitus to all cases in which grape sugar is permanently present in the urine (in quantities sufficient to give a reaction to the ordinary clinical tests for sugar). Cases in which a small quantity of sugar is permanently present in the urine, whilst other symptoms are slight or absent, are, however, sometimes de- scribed by the term chronic glycosuria; but it appears better to describe such cases as mild forms of diabetes mellitus. A temporary glycosuria is not usually followed by diabetes mellitus at a later period; but sometimes, after disappearing for a time, the glycosuria recurs, and occasionally becomes permanent, and the condition develops into one of true diabetes mellitus many months or several years after the glycosuria was first detected. The following are the chief forms of glyco- suria :— 1. Alimentary Glycosuria.—In the normal condition the power of sugar destruction of the body is not unlimited, and a very large quantity of saccharine food causes a small amount of sugar to appear in the urine. The various forms of sugardifFerin theirpowerof producing alimentary glycosuria. The following are the quantities of several forms of sugar which will produce glyco- suria in healthy persons (v. Noorden) : milk sugar over 120 grms., cane sugar 150-200 grms., fruit sugar about 200 grms., grape sugar 180 to 250 grms. (the sugar should be given in one dose, on an empty stomach before breakfast). The power of assimilation for starch appears to be unlimited in health. The power of sugar assimilation is sometimes slightly diminished in apparently healthy persons, and is often much reduced in various pathological conditions (as, for example, Graves' disease, cirrhosis of the liver, many fevers, chronic alcoholism, obesity). In order to detect a diminution of the power of sugar destruction (alimentary glycosuria) in any individual, Naunyn recommends the follow-