420 GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY with the occurrence of a superadded acute atonic distension of the bowel, and inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membrane; the pale liquid faeces also are a symptom of this final exacerbation. The small intestine is normal. The most remarkable characteristic in the morbid anatomy of this condition is the apparent absence of any mechanical obstruction. Its pathology is uncertain. It is noteworthy that there is no evidence at present that there is any hypertrophy or dilatation of the colon at birth, the only part of the condition which is actually congenital is the constipation. Any theory which is to explain all the cases must account for the fact that in some cases, at least, the whole large intestine, down to the anus, is hypertrophied. Spasm of the rectum or of the sphincter ani might explain this, but in most cases no such spasm has been found. Kinking at the sigmoid loop, or some abnormal arrange- ment of the mesentery, fails to explain the affection of tbe part below the sigmoid flexure. Possibly in some cases there is some congenital defect of innervation of the intestine so that its contractions are ineffectual and constipation results, with secondary dilatation and hyper- trophy. Diagnosis.—The salient points in the diagnosis are the history of constipation from or soon after birth, the presence of visible peristalsis of greatly enlarged coils of intestine, and the absence of any obvious cause for obstruction. This last point is important, for a congenital stenosis of the rectum, or a narrowing of the anus, either congenitally or from an imperfect result after operation for imperforate anus, may produce an almost exactly similar result. Such malformations are readily excluded by ex- amination. This condition has been mistaken for tuber- culous peritonitis; and in the later stage the thin child with its distended abdomen suggests such a diagnosis at first sight; but apart from the history and the dilated coils of intestine, the congenital condition is distinguished by the complete absence of that doughy resistance and the band-like masses which are so characteristic on palpation of the abdomen in tuberculous peritonitis. The absence of fluid thrill and of the char- acteristic shifting of dulness with position, taken together with the history, should serve to ex- clude ascites. Very rarely in childhood adhesions from past peritonitis cause obstruction of the bowels with distension of the abdomen and visible peristalsis of dilated coils of intestine, but such adhesions are likely to affect the small intestine, and careful inspection will generally detect this difference partly from the size and shape and partly from the position of the coils. Too much importance, however, must not be attached to position, for in congenital dilatation of the colon the huge coils occupy most unusual positions, the sigmoid loop in particular fre- quently extends across into the right iliac fossa, and may rise above the umbilicus. Prognosis.—In five cases under the writer's observation the ages at death were respectively 4^ months, 4f months, 5 months, 3 years, and 3| years, and two others were still living at the ages of 7 years and 10 years. Two cases have been recorded in which the patients survived to adult life, but this is quite exceptional. In almost all the recorded cases death has occurred under the age of 12 years. Whether the con- dition is ever recoverable may be doubted; certainly under treatment there may be con- siderable improvement. Treatment.—In the early stage much can be done to prevent the condition becoming worse. It must be impressed on the parents how im- portant it is that they should never relax their efforts to keep the child's bowels regular. The bowels must be opened at least every two days. As to the means to be employed to overcome the constipation, careful selection is necessary. Drugs given by mouth too often prove useless, but are worthy of trial, especially in the early stage, before the dilatation is very great. A mixture of liquor strychnina; with sodium and magnesium sulphate may be given three times- a day, or belladonna with aloes and nux vomica may be tried. A morning dose of apenta water has acted well. In some cases calomel has seemed to be most useful, and probably even in the later stages has a decided value, not only as an aperient, but also as an antiseptic, where there is a tendency to decomposition and fer- mentation in the dilated bowel. Gentle massage of the colon along its course is quite safe, and sometimes decidedly beneficial, in the early stage, but when distension is ex- treme, especially when the stools are liquid and there is tenderness of the abdomen, the likeli- hood of ulceration must be borne in mind, for there may be, as Dr. Rolleston and Mr. Haward have suggested, a risk of rupturing the intestine by massage. In almost all cases drugs given by mouth prove ineffectual sooner or later, and enemata become necessary. For the reasons stated above (vide p. 419), olive oil, either alone or mixed with castor oil, followed at once by a small soap enema, is perhaps the least open to objection. In some cases it becomes necessary to clear out the accumulated faeces from the rectum with the finger or with a scoop. The diet in the early stage may be modified, as in cases of simple constipation; in the later stage it is well to let the diet be as simple as possible, and those articles are to be preferred which leave but little feecal residue, such as milk, eggs, soup, etc. At any time an acute exacerbation of disten- sion is liable to occur, especially when the