265 FEERUM The persalts of iron have a sti'ong astringent action on ulcerated or bleeding skin surfaces or on mucous membranes. They are also efficient luemostatics, and may arrest even sevei'e hfcnior- rhage. The liquor ferri perchloridi is the most commonly used, applied directly on lint or cotton-wool, to stop bleeding from the nose, from piles, from the uterus, etc. It may also be painted on the tonsils and pharynx for astringent purposes. The tinctura ferri perchloridi given as a rectal injection (5i. to Oi.) is useful in the treatment of thread-worms. Internally the liquor ferri perchloridi has been given with apparent benefit in hBemorrhage from the stomach and intestines. In the treatment of diarrha^a the astringent iron salts are of little value. There seems to be no doubt that the tinctura ferri perchloridi, in doses of 20-30 m. frequently repeated, is of help in cases of ery- sipelas, septic sore throat, diphtheria, etc., although its mode of action in these diseases is by no means clear. The humid peroxide of iron, freshly prepared by mixing giij. of liquor ferri Ijerchloridi with 51. of sodium carbonate, diluted with water, is an excellent antidote in arsenical poisoning. In the treatment of anaemias the salts of iron stand unrivalled. When the per- centage of hajmoglobin and the number of red blood corpuscles is below normal, iron increases both in a way that can be accomplished by no other drug. In the treatment of chlorosis its action is practically that of a specific, and in secondary anannia, due to Bright's disease, piithisis, and the like, it is of great value. In liernicious antemia it is absolutely worthless, a fact that may sometimes serve as a diagnostic aid. It is of little use, too, in the ana?mia accompanying leucocythtemia. The most suit- able forms to employ are the Blaud formula in (ine shape or another, and the saccharated car- bonate, which is best given in cachet so as to avoid the blackening eftect on the teeth of all iron compounds. Almost any preparation is efficient if suitably prescribed ; but one must make cer- tain that a sufficient quantity of iron is being- administered. Treatment should be commenced with the equivalent of about 1 gr. of iron thrice daily, and this should be rapidly increased initil 10 grs. per diem are being taken. Constipation is above all things to be avoided, and most authorities recommend that a brisk purge should precede the commencement of the course of iron. In a great variety of conditions associated with debility, even where a blood examination reveals little or no auicmia, iron is given as a tonic, and for this purpose the scale preparations are specially recommended. In convalescence from acute disease Easton's syrup is frequently prescribed. In chronic heart disease the addi- tion of iron to the heart tonic employed may ])rove beneficial. In chronic Bright's disease tinctura ferri pei'chloridi is largely used, and has a considerable reputation as a diuretic. It is probable, however, tliat its real value lies in counteracting the secondary anaemia usually present, and it is useless to prescribe it unless there is some ansemia. The syrup of the iodide is specially recommended for diseases associated with wasting or faulty nutrition, and it has also been used in rheumatoid arthritis. Fersan.—A preparation (from the blood of the ox) said to consist of an organic compound of acid albumin with iron and phosphorus. Fertilisa.tion. &e Fecundation ; Fcetus AND Ovum, Development ; etc. Fester. See SurpuRATiON. Festination. — The tendency to hurry (and riurry) in the doing of anything, which is noticeable in some forms of insanity and nervous diseases. Fetus.—The unborn infant between the end of the second month and the full term of intra - uterine life; the young of the lower animals. The spelling fetus is etymologically correct, but the form foetus is still in common use save in the B^ntish Medical Jotmial and American medical works. See Fcetus. Fever. See Actinomycosis ; Anthrax ; AiTENDiciTis; Balneology (Actions of Baths, ''Critical Fever"); Beriberi; Blackwater Fever; Cholera; Dengue; Diphtheria; Dys- entery ; Ephemeral Fever ; Epidemiology ; Erysipelas ; Filariasis (Elephantoid Fever); Foot-and-Mouth Disease ; Fourth Disease ; Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts Diseases {In- Jlamtnatory); Glanders ; Glandular Fever ; GoNORRHCEA ; HiEMOGLOBiNURiA {in Fevers) ; H/EMORRHAge {Hcnmorrhagic Fever) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Malignant Endocarditis); Hydrophobia ; Hysteria {Dis- orders of General Nutrition, Hysterical Fever); Infection; Inflammation; Influenza; Invalid Feeding {in Pyrexial States); Joints, Diseases of {Clinical Features, Tidjerculmis Arthritic Fever); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Pyelitis, etc.); Leprosy; LEUCOCYTHiEMiA (Jci<^e); Leuco- cytosis ; Liver, Diseases {Abscess); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Pyrexia); Lymphatic System {Physiology and Pathology, J/odgkiri's Pisiase); Malaria ; Mumps ; Measles ; Plague ; Puer- perium, Pathology (Fever) ; Puerperium, Physiology (Temjx-rature, Milk Fever); Py.emia ; Relapsing Fever; Rheumatism, Acute; Rubella; Scarlet Fever ; Septicjjmia ; Syphilis ; Tem- perature ; Tetanus ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of ; Trypanosojiiasis ; Tuberculosis ; Typhoid Fever; Typhus Fever; Undulant Fever ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Sig- nificance of Albuminuria); Varicella; AVhoop- iNG-CouGH ; Wounds (Tratanatic Fever); Yaws ; Yellow Fever.