492 GOUT of articular changes was much diminished. The point is worthy of further investigation. Myelitis is rare. Gowers considers that pos- sibly some cases of otherwise undetermined origin in young adults owe their origin to this cause. In neuralgia we find the most common, as it is also one of the most troublesome, nerve derange- ments. Its relationship to gout, and its associa- tion with other traits of the disease, are frequently perfectly apparent and unmistakable, and would probably be more so if sufliciently detailed in- quiries were instituted. The fifth nerve, pos- terior tibial, sciatic, and occipital are the ones most frequently involved, and their derange- ments are liable to appear and disappear sud- denly, or take the place of other manifestations of the disease. Cases like the following are in- structive and by no means rare :—A young man fet. 32, of plethoric build and hair grey almost to whiteness, came complaining of "acidity." His father had been a martyr to gout and in his later years was affected witli attaclcs of angina pectoris. When 25 years old this patient had a very severe attack of neuralgia which fully pros- trated him for two or three weeks, aiid incapaci- tated liim from work for as man}' months, and at the end of this time his hair was "almost white." Lesser attacks have occurred subse- quently, and, curiously enough, the prodromal symptoms were the same as those experienced by his father—a feeling as if the right thigh was being sponged over with cold water. From the great severity and long duration of the first attack it may probably be regarded as a regular acute gout in an unusual site. There is indeed no end to the irregularity and anomalous nature of the nervous disturbances encountered. In young adults tender feet may be an early symptom, and is usually accompanied by the hot sensations in the feet described by Duck- worth. The discomfort arising from this condi- tion in young women may be so great that the}' will never wear boots or outdoor shoes a minute longer than they can possibly help. In one such case I have observed a localised point of exquisite tenderness over the middle of one calf, and this patient averred that the feelings of cramp to which she was subject seemed to have their origin at this point. This case was specially interesting, as the patient was by no means of a neurotic temperament. The local phenomena of Raynaud's disease are also frequently seen in the subjects of in- herited gout, the pallor and coldness of the affected extremity persisting from a few minutes to half an hour or more. These patients are usually very susceptible to the influence of cold water, and cannot tolerate sea-bathing. In adult life vaso-motor instability may be a promi- nent feature, especially in plethoric subjects. HeaAache, 7nigraine, insomnia, and vertigo are also frequently encountered as the leading sub- jective indications of gouty metabolism, and they may be accompanied by feelings of physical and mental lassitude, or melancholia. All these cases may be associated with some obvious aberrations in urinary excretions. At and after the climac- teric we sometimes find that patients who have been treated for years for recurring acute and subacute gout of a typical character, recover completely from the symptoms, but develop more acute meiital derangements, necessitating appro- priate and permanent asylum treatment. Are these cases to be regarded as illustrations of metastasis, or as illustrating a reversion to another type of inherited weakness under the influence of the diminishing metabolic activity of later life ? The liability of many gouty subjects to cere- bral hmiiorrhage need only be referred to, and it may be well to mention that in old-standing cases of hemiplegia the deposit of urate of soda takes place more readily in the joints and tissues of the paralysed side. Circulatory System In early life the subjects of inherited gouty proclivities frequently exhibit various vascular disturbances, e.g. chilblains, and the local pheno- mena of Raynaud's disease. In later life the leading manifestations are the following :— (i.) General vaso-motor instability. (ii.) Incidental and more or less frequent aberrations in cardiac action, arising from the influence of the toxic agents on the nervous mechanism of the heart, e.g. arrhythmia, tachy- cardia, bradycardia, angina. The tendency to these disturbances is, of course, increased if there be myocardial degeneration. (iii.) The symptoms and physical signs arising from the action of a hypertrophied heart, with or without dilatation, and contraction of the peripheral vessels, in cases with renal cirrhosis and widespread arterial disease. (iv.) Evidence of early or late cardiac muscle failure, due to chronic myocarditis, with disease of the coronary vessels. These various symptoms are frequently in- duced or aggravated by reflex injurious influ- ences from the gastro - intestinal tract, and in many of these cases the dietetic treatment is the all-important one. This is specially true of the senile heart. Pericarditis is by no means an uncommon manner of termination in cases where the gouty form of Bright's disease is developed. In addition, various arterial and venous disorders are met with. Arterio - capillary fibrosis, and atheroma and their sequelae, are the arterial derangements ; phlebitis and thrombosis are the leading venous disorders. Varicose veins in the legs and hfemorrhoids are by no means in- frequent. While the diagnosis of a gouty origin in many of these cases is often largely a matter of inference from the tout ensemble of the case, the fact of the occasional relationship of these symptoms to gout should not be lost sight of.