EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 109 {b) From the floor-plate, the tissue of the mid-ventral line, (c) From the alar laminte, the optic thalami, the jnilvinares, and the external geniculate bodies, (c?) From the basal lamiufo, the sul)thalamic region, the corpora albicantia (cor- jjora mammillaria), and the tuber cinereum (part), (e) From the cavity, part of the third ventricle. 5. The Telencephalon, which, as a whole, gives rise to the cerebral hemispheres, corpora striata, olfactory lobes, and infundibulum, is converted into the following detailed structures :— {a) From the roof-plate, the anterior part of the velum interpositum (in the median part of the telencephalon) and the floor of the choroidal fissure (in the hemisphere part). {h) From the floor-plate, the infundibulum and part of the pituitary body (hypo- physis). (c) From the alar laminte, the lamina terminalis and optic evaginations (in the median part), and the pallium or mantle, the corpora striata, and the olfactory lobes (in the hemisphere part). {d) From the basal laminte, the anterior part of the subthalamic region and of the tuber cinereum. (e) From the cavity, the anterior part of the third ventricle, the lateral ven- tricles, and the foramina of Monro. The Nbofcetal Period Just as postnatal life begins with a period of transition or readjustment to suit new environ- mental conditions, a period named the neonatal; so the passage from embryonic to foetal life is marked by a transition time of adaptation {Natura non facit saltus—Nature makes no leaps) wliich we may call the neofaital, during which, among other notable phenomena, the placental economy is being established. The neofffital jjeriod coincides roughly (there are no sharp limits, Nature, as has been said, making no leaps) with the second half of second (lunar) month of intra-uterine life. Its commencement is on or about the fortieth day (end of sixth week), when the new organism takes on a form which can be recognised as distinctly human ; this somewhat indefinite change Minot regards as marking the end of the embryonic epoch {Ilunum Embryolugi/, p. 391, 1892) and the beginning of the fa^tal. It is, however, better to regard it as marking the beginning of a period which is neither embryonic nor fa^tal, but a transition between or combination of the two—the organism is putting off its distinctively embryonic and jDutting on its fa>tal characters, is becoming human, i.e. reeognisably similar to child or adult. The "transition " form is seen in His' embryo xxxiv. (Dr), the estimated age of which was thirty-eight days, and the length of which from neck-bend to coccygeal bend was 1-5 cm. (Fig. 18). "Transition organism," we may call it, yet it is probably more correct to regard organisms of all ages between six weeks and two months as transition forms, the transi- tion itself being not sadden, but gradual,^ Fig. is. Fio. 19. requiring two weeks at least. For, during the- seventh and eighth weeks (neofcetal period), several changes take place in the appearance of the organism; and some of these can be recognised by comparing the His embryo (Fig. 18) with a foetus (Fig. 19) in my collection, measuring 2-5 cms. in length (cephalo-coccygeal length), and of an estimated age of fifty-six days (end of neofa'tal period). An'atomy and Physiology of Neofcetal Period The changes which occur in the neofa^tal period are external and internal; they are less marked than those which have occurred in the embryo, but they are much more marked than those that are to occur in the fojtus. With regard, in the first place, to external appearances, the following may be emphasised as noteworthy. The greater part of the head of the six weeks' embryo is sharply flexed at right angles to the back part of the head and neck, so that the eye lies in front of the ear and below its level. The jsoint where the back part of the head is continuous with the trunk is marked by a concavity, called the Nackengruhe. In the foitus eight weeks old, elevation of the greater part of the head has taken place, so that now the mid brain lies above instead of anterior to the hind-brain, the eye lies in front of the ear, but more nearly at the same level, and the Nacl-engruhe is almost obliterated. In the six weeks' embryo there are no traces of eyelids, the external ear is scai'cely recognisable, and the maxillary j^roccsses have little more than united in the )nedian line anteriorly; in the eight weeks' foetus the eyelids are present, although