EXCISION 190 OF [Operations, excision of head of humerus) ; Tongue [Carcinoma, Operative Treatment) ; Wrist-Joint Diseases {Tuberculosis, Operative Procedures). Excitants.—Drugs or applications which increase the functional activity of any organ of the body ; stimulants. See Pharmacology. Excoriation.—An abrasion or erosion of the skin or of a mucous membrane. Excrescence.—A tumour attached to and growing from tlie skin or a mucous surface, e.g. the cauliflower excrescence of the cervix uteri (cervical epithelioma), or warty excrescences of the vulva (condylomata). Excreta. See F^ces. Excretion. See Physiology, Tissues {Effect of Muscular Work); Physiology, Re- spiration, Excretion by the Kidneys and by THE Skin. ExencephaluS. — The teratological type in which the posterior part of the cranial vault is defective, and the cranial contents lie exposed on the nape of the neck. See Tera- tology ; Cheek, Fissure op {Complications). Exenteration.—Evisceration (q.v.). See Labour, Operations {Embryotomy, in Trunk Presentations). Exercise. See Alcoholism {Treatment, Personal, General) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Treatment, Rest, and Exercise) ; Pregnancy, Management {Exercise) ; Schott Treatment. Exfoliation.—The separation of dead tissue, epidermic or osseous, or (occasionally) of mucous membrane (e.g. of the bladder in cystitis). Exhumation.—The digging up of a corpse which has been buried for som.e time in order to investigate the cause of death, especially in cases of suspected poisoning. ExituS LethaliS.—The fatal termina- tion, e.g. of an illness. ExOCardia.—A teratological state in which the heart lies external to the chest, and there is a fissure of the sternum; it may be associated with diaphragmatic hernia. Exodin.—A yellow, tasteless powder, i-e- lated to emodin and purgatin; it is derived synthetically from oxyanthraquinon ; it is used, in doses of 7 to 15 grains, as a mild purgative. Exohysteropexy.—The fixation of the uterus to the anterior abdominal wall {e.g. in cases of prolapse) by burying part of the organ between the layers of the wall. ExomphalOS.—Defect or fissure of the anterior abdominal wall, allowing protrusion or exposure of the viscera; abdominal or ventral hernia; gastroschisis. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development {Umbilical Cord) ; Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Monstrosities, Exom- phalos); Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua {Affec- tions of the Amnion, Inflammation) ; Tera- tology. Exophoria. See Esophoria ; Ocular Muscles, Affections op {Abnormal Position); Strabismus {Classification, Strabismus Diver- gens) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Eye and its Appen- dages). Exophthalmic Goitre. See Thy ROID Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre); see also Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease (Pi*/- mentation in Exophthalmic Goitre; Aneurysm {Diagnosis) ; Cornea {Ulceration from Ex- posure) ; HiEMATOPORPHYRiNURiA; PuLSE {Fre- quency, Increase in); Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions {Exophthalmic Goitre). Exophthalmos. See Aneurysm {Ar- terio-venous Intercommunications, Pulsating Exo- phthalmos) ; Brain, Affections op Blood- vessels {Thrombosis, Morbid Anatomy); Brain, Cerebellum, Affections of {Symptomatology, Ocular Nerves); Eye, Clinical Examination OF ; Leontiasis Ossea {Localised Hyperostosis); Lungs, Vascular Disorders {Embolism, Clinical Features); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflamma- tion {Acute Inflammation, Ethmoidal Cells); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Grave's Disease) ; Orbit, Diseases op {Pulsating and Intermittent Exophthalmos); Orbit, Diseases of {Thrombosis of Cavernous Sinus); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis {Clinical Characters) ; Scurvy, In- fantile {Diagnosis); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophtlialmic Goitre). ExOSplenopexy.—An operation in which the spleen is fixed into an incision made in the abdominal wall. Exostosis. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Stenosis of Meatus from Exostoses); Labour, Precipitate; and Prolonged {Fa,ults in the Passages, Tumours of the Pelvic Bones); Orbit, Diseases of {Tumours^ ; Teeth {Exostosis). Expectant Treatment. — The management of an illness by non-interference, especially operative, until, at least, symptoms very clearly call for more active measures. Expectation of Life.—The proba- bilities of life and death at any age as brought out by statistics ("life tables"); mean after- lifetime ; in England the expectation of life at birth is 43-66 years for the male and 47"18 years for the female. See Vital Statistics {Life Tables).