FRACTURES 357 other and at some distance apart, the splints arc appHed to the front and hack -of the forearm, and reach from the elbow to the back of the wrist, and from the bend of the elbow to the end of the metacarpal bones respectively. Each splint should be an inch wider than the trans- verse diameter of the arm to prevent the two bones being squeezed together by the bandage, but not wider, or movements will be allowed between the splints. The two splints are fixed in position by a strip of adhesive plaster applied spirally, a bandage is then put on, and the arm is supported by a large arm-sling, reaching from the elbow to the hand. Care must be taken that the inner splint does not press into the bend of the elbow, and the arm must be examined from time to time to see that gangrene is not taking place, for as the onset is sometimes painless, the statements of the patient are quite unreliable upon this point. The arm should be kept untouched in sjjlints for a fortnight. It may then be taken down and passive movements of the wrist and elbow may be made daily, the splints being afterwards reapplied until the end of the third or fourth week, when the bones should be strong enough to allow the arm to be supported in a sling only. Unless the patient has to use his arm for especially laborious work he may be allowed to resume his occupation at the end of the sixth week from the injury. The U/na.—Fractures of the olecranon and of the coronoid process of the ulna are considered elsewhere (p. 47). Fracture of the shaft of the ulna is generally caused by a blow upon the arm, more rarely it is the result of indirect violence, and occasionally it has been caused by muscular action. In children the fracture may be subperiosteal and incomplete. The special dangers attending the injury are the probability of the fractui'e becoming compound owing to the subcutaneous position of the shaft of the ulna and the tendency of the radius to become dislocated forwards, outwards, or least often backwards when the idna is broken in the upper third. The dislocation is usiially an immediate result of the injury, but it may be secondary to non- union of tlie broken ulna, or to the formation of exuberant callus during the process of repair. The lower fragment is drawn towards the ulna by the pronator quadratus, and is often displaced backwards, forwards, or laterally by the injury causing the fracture. The upper fragment, too, may be displaced either inwards or outwards, for there is a little lateral movement at the elbow, but the main displacement is forwards. The injury is not difficidt to recognise when it occurs in the subcutaneous ])aTt of the bone, whilst the limited flexion, pronation, and supi- nation with pain felt most severely at one spot, enaliles a diagnosis to be made when the fracture has occurred in the upper third of the bone. Care must be taken in setting the fi'acture to reduce the lateral displacement of the lower fragment of the ulna towards the radius, and not to overlook any dislocation of the head of the radius. The lateral displacement is remedied by pressing the fingers and thumb between the two bones. The arm is then bent to a right angle, and is secured in a plaster case moulded to the arm and forearm in the manner already described. The arm is then slung in a large arm-sling for three weeks. The prognosis is good, though the excessive formation of callus sometimes limits the move- ments of the elbow after the fracture of the ulna in the upper third. When the fracture is incom- plete the radius is a sufhcient splint, and the arm need only be slung. The early and gentle application of massage from the fourth day onwards is often serviceable in reducing the pain and swelling in these cases of greenstick j fracture. When the injury is associated with a dislocation of the radius the elbow must be maintained at an acute, instead of at a right, angle, passive movements being commenced at the end of a fortnight. F^-actures of the Radius.—Fractvires of the head and neck of the radius are considered on p. 48, whilst CoUes' fracture is discussed under ( " Wrist Joint." j Fractures of the shaft of the radius alone are less conmion than fractures of the ulna, but like I them are usually caused by direct violence. The displacement varies according to the position of i the fracture : when it is above the insertion of j the pronator radii teres, and below the insertion of the biceps, the upper fragment is rotated outwards, whilst the lower fragment is rolled inwards; but when the fi-acture is in the lower third the upper fragment is drawn forwards by the biceps, and is rotated internally by the pronator radii teres, whilst the lower fragment is pidled inwards by the pronator quadratus and the supinator longus. The result, therefore, is often an angular deformity. The diagnosis of I fracture of the shaft of the radius is easily j established, if it is complete and unimpacted, I by placing the fingers on the head of the radius, I which can always be felt behind and directly I below the external condyle of the humerus. If the radius be broken the head will not move when the hand and arm are gently pronated and supinated. The treatment is the same as for fracture of l)oth bones of the forearm (see p. 356), i.e. fvill supination when the fracture is above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, semi-j^rona- j tion in all fractures of the middle and lower I thirds. Repair takes place in a month, but the patient should be warned that pronation and supination may be impaired. Fractiu'es of the ' various carpal bones are considered under the I heading " Wrist Joint." The Metacarpal Bones.— Fractures of the