EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF 219 Styes 222 Chalazion ..... 223 Infarcts ..... 223 Tarsitis 223 Affections of the Muscles of the Lids— Orbicularis ..... 223 Spasm ..... 223 Paralysis . . . ■ .224 Levator PALPEBRyE Superioris . 224 Congenital Ptosis . . . .224 Acquired Ptosis . . . .224 Defects in the Position and Connection OF THE Lids— Trichiasis . . . . .225 Distichiasis ..... 225 Entropion ..... 225 Ectropion ..... 226 Ankyloblepharon .... 227 SyjMblepharon .... 227 BlepharophiiMOSis . . . .227 Lagophthalmos .... 227 Growths on the Lids— Benign ...... 228 Malignant . . . . .229 Injuries— Skin and Bone .... 229 Anatomy, etc.—The eyelids are developed from two folds of epiblast, which grow together from either side of the ocular cleft until they meet in front of the globe to form a closed cavity, the conjunctival sac; and from the mesoblast which extends into these folds are derived the non- epithelial tissues of the lids — the tarsus, muscles, fascife, etc. The line of union, where normally the folds meet, separates again before birth to form the palpebral fissure ; and by the defective union or separation of these folds various congenital deformities of the lids are produced. When the eyes are closed the palpebral fissure forms a tear-tight slit between the lids, which varies in length and direction in different people. Its ends, where the lids join together, are the outer and inner canthi, and its margins are formed by the edges of the tarsal cartilages. The apparent size and shape of the eyes, when the lids are open, depend upon the length and direction of the palpebral fissure, which allows more or less of the cornea and sclerotic to be exposed. The shin of the lids is very thin, and is loosely attached to the subjacent tissues, except over the area of the upper tarsus, where it adheres a little more firmly. At the margin of the palpebral fissiire the skin, where it merges into the palpebral conjunctiva, is intimately attached to the edge of the tarsus. The svhcutaneous celltdar tissue, which after infancy is devoid of fat, is so loose and delicate that it admits of great swelling of the lids, which may occur very ra{)idly. The tarsal cartilages are two thin semilunar- shajjed plates of fibrous tissue, wedge-shaped in vertical section; the thick edge of the tarsus forms the margin of the palpebral fissure, and the thin edge is attached to the orbital margin by the palpebral ligament, which is thickened at the canthi to form the inner and outer tarsal ligaments. The inner tarsal ligament, which can be made to stand out tensely beneath the skin at the inner canthus by drawing the lids outwards with the finger placed over the outer canthus, forms a guide to the situation of swellings in this position ; it is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla in front of the lachrymal sac. It has also a second connection with the lachrymal bone behind the sac, which it thus embraces. Beyond the sac the ligament ter- minates in two processes to join the inner ends of the tarsi. The outer tarsal ligament is shorter and less marked. The free edge of the tarsus forms the long narrow margin of the lid ; it is rounded in front where the lashes emerge in rows, and has a sharp edge behind in contact with the globe. The end of this sharp margin is marked, near the inner canthus, by the punctum lachrymali; beyond this the edge of the lid is rounded over the canaliculus, which runs beneath the tarsal liga- ment to reach the lachrymal sac. On drawing the lids away from the eye the posterior surface of the tarsus is exposed, covered by the thin, smooth, and adherent palpebral conjunctiva, through which is seen the outline of the Meibo- mian glands, whose orifices open in a row on the free border of the lid near its posterior edge. By pressing the tarsus gently against the globe whilst the eyes are kept open, a row of beads of secretion can be made to issue from the mouths of the glands. This lubricating secretion pre- vents excoriation when the lids meet together in winking, and also keeps the normal amount of tears from overflowing down the cheek. Muscles.—Between the palpebral fascia and the skin is the orbicularis palpebrarum, a thin muscle whose fibres surround the palpebral fissure concentrically, and extend from the edge of the lids to beyond the orbital margin, where it joins the contiguous muscles of the face and forehead. The palpebral jjortion of the muscle, which arises from the internal tarsal ligament, performs the function of a sphincter to the lids in winking, and when the eyes are gently closed, as in sleep; the outer or orbital portion is brought into action during the forcible closing of the lids. The whole muscle, which is supplied by the facial nerve, acts as the depi'essor of the upper and elevator of the lower lid. The upper lid is raised by the levator palpebra;; and the lower lid is depressed when the eyes are open and looking straight in front by the relaxation of the orbicularis, which allows the lid to sink by its own weight; but when the