EYEBALL, INJURIES OF 217 The removal i« effected by a corneal section and the use of forceps or Hirschberg's magnet. The great advantage of this powerful instrument is in dealing with small fragments which cannot be seen, or which have lain a long time in the eye. The use of Rdntgen rays had been practically of no use in ophthalmic surgery till Mackenzie Davidson worked out a plan which enables us not only to detect foreign bodies in the eyeball or orbit, but to estimate their exact size and position.1 The method is essentially as follows :— 1. Tlie patient is seated with the photo- graphic plate in contact with that side of his head which corresponds to the injured eye, the 'Crookes tube is on the opposite side of the head, 30 cm. from the plate, and exactly opposite the point of crossing of two wires stretched across the frame holding the plate, the one vertical and the other horizontal. 2. The wires are inked so as to mark the patient's temple, a small piece of lead wire is made to touch and mark the lower eyelid at a point which bears a definite relation to some point of the eyeball, such as a scar, etc. 3. Two skiagrams are taken, one upon the plate with the Crookes tube 3 cm. behind, and the other upon a celluloid film 3 cm. in front of the point of crossing of the wires. 4. The two negatives, the celluloid one being 'Uppermost, are then placed on the "localiser"— a glass horizontal stage with a I'eflector under- neath. The adjustments are now repeated with a fine silk tin-ead going from the anode in its first position to the corresponding image of the foreign body, and another thread connecting the anode in its second jjosition to the corre- sponding image. The point where the threads intersect fixes the position in space of the foreign body in relation to the image of the ■cross wires. Radiography has already been of signal service, it tells us for certain if the foreign body has gone through the eyeball into the orbit, a thing we could never be sure of before the use of this method, and when this is the case we may usually with safety retain the eye. Injuries by Strong Light, Heat, or Chemi- cal Agents. — Momentary contact of a gas flame, hot curling-tongs, or cigar ash, produces a superficial burn of the cornea, shown by a limited area of milk-white opacity of the epithelium, which, being thrown off, exposes the nerve-ends, and gives rise to severe smarting pain, continuing till the epithelial covering is restored. ' The apparatus is e.xpeiisive, the whole outfit costing about £80. Good electric coils may be got from Apps, •133 Strauil ; Crookes' tubes from A. C. Cossar, 67 Far- ringdoii Road, E.G.; and the Mackenzie Davidson localiser is made by Muirhead and Company, Westminster. Healing is brought about in a few days l)y the use of a bandage and the instillation of atropine. Burns by molten lead are chiefly remarkable for the comparatively slight injury done, probably on account of the parts being protected by a layer of vapour; the metal forms a more or less complete cast of the conjunctival sac, and, when removed, one is astonished to find only a superficial destruction affecting the corneal and conjunctival epithelium. Molten iron, on account of its much higher temperature,—nearly four times as great as molten lead,—produces a far more serious ljurn ; the cornea and sclerotic at the affected part assume a dense white appearance from coagula- tion of the albumin in the tissues, often with the edges of a yellow colour. The sensibility is much impaired or quite lost, indicating- necrosis of the parts, which by secondary in- flammation around are later thrown off' as a slough exposing the vitreous, and leading to total loss and shrinking of the eye, or in less sevei'e cases to deep ulceration of the cornea and sclerotic, with iritis and adhesions between the iris and lens capsule. Strong mineral acids, or alkalies—as potash, soda, ammonia, and lime—sometimes get in the eye, but we shall refer further only to lime burns, as these are very common, often serious, and demand prompt attention. The lime is almost invariably in a slaked or partially slaked form, and sometimes mixed with sand ; it has a most deleterious effect on the cornea, and if not quickly removed from the conjunctival sac, which can only be clone by proper medical aid, it continues to act upon and destroy the tissues. In the least severe cases the cornea is but slightly clouded, in modenitely severe cases the cornea becomes like ground glass, and in the worst there is a dense white porcelain-like ojiacity with loss of sensibility. Ulceration often with perforation takes place leading to adherent leucoma. The ocular and palpeljral conjunctiva; are always involved and become adherent, giving rise to a condition called " symblepharon," which is called "anterior" when a probe can be passed under it, and "posterior" when the adhesion takes place right back to the reflected conjunctiva. " Pterygium" also often occurs during tiie healing process by a fold of the ocular con- junctiva becoming adherent to a corneal ulcer. Treatment.—All particles of iron, lead, lime, or other foreign substances are to be picked off' with forceps, or they may I'cquire to be dug out with a spud. The use of a 5 per cent cocaine ointment will render this process less painful. Pai'ticles of lime are especially hard to remove ; the lids are everted and gently rubbed with pieces of lint soaked in oil or vaseline, and particular attention must be paid to the retro- tarsal fold. In lime burns we must avoid the use of