EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF 226 normal position. Care, however, must be taken to remove all the exposed orbicularis muscle. The wound is closed with fine sutures, and covered with a pad and bandage until it has healed. Ectropion, or eversion of the lid, is produced by the following causes :—Spasm of the orbi- cularis muscle, paralysis of the orbicularis muscle, senile changes in the lids and cicatrices. Spastic ectropion, which may aliect both lids, occurs in the young who are suffering from some conjunctival inflammation which produces blepharospasm. It disappears when the primary cause is cured, and therefore requires no special treatment. When paralysis of the orbicularis muscle is the cause of the drooping of the lower lid the treatment will depend on the length of time it has existed, and upon the nature of the primary cause. If the paralysis is likely to be cured it will be necessary OTily to support the lid with strapping or with a pad and bandage until this has been effected, but when the paralysis is permanent the lax and elongated lid can be shortened and restored almost to its normal position by excising a wedge-shaped piece from its extremity at the outer canthus. This is done by making an incision from the outer canthus through the whole thickness of the lid outwards and downwards for about an inch. The lower lid is then drawn outwards until its margin is in contact with the globe, and the portion which now extends beyond the canthus is removed by an incision which joins the end of the first cut. Sutures are inserted to close the wound, special care being taken to bring the free margin of the lids together at the outer canthus. Senile ectro2jion, which is chiefly due to a loss of elasticity and tone in the tissue of the lid, may begin by an epiphora due to the eversion of the punctum started by a conjunctival catarrh. When once the tears flow over the cheek a vicious circle is established which may lead to the complete eversion of the whole of the lower lid, together with a thickening of the palpebral conjunctiva, caused by the irritation of the lashes of the upper lid. In the earliest stage, when only the punctum and inner end of the lid are everted, they may be restored to their normal position by means of a scar, produced by burning the conjunctiva on its inside with the actual cautery. At the same time the skin, where the tears flow, should be kept supple with ointment. When the whole length of the lid is everted, the effect should be tried of Snellen's sutures, which are applied in the following manner :— The patient may be anjBsthetised, or cocaine is applied and injected beneath the lid. A suture, with a two-inch straight needle at each end, is taken, and one of the needles is passed from the highest point of the everted con- junctiva, a little to one side of the middle of the lid, beneath the orbicularis and out through the skin just below the lower margin of the orbit. The other needle is passed in a similar manner, and parallel to the first, at a point at about one centimetre to its outer side. The loop formed by the suture on the top of the conjunctiva is now drawn tight, by tying the ends together over a piece of rubber tubing until the margin of the lid is inverted. Two similar sutures are usually inserted on either side of the central one before it is tied. The sutures are removed as soon as they begin to cut their way out. Cicatricial ectropion is due not only to loss of tissue caused by burns, injuries, ulcers, and abscesses, but also to sycosis and to eczema of the lids associated with conjunctival and lach- rymal affections. The latter can be dealt with by cauterising the everted conjunctiva with the actual cautery, or by Snellen's sutures. When the ectropion is caused by a scar in the skin adhering to the bony margin of the orbit, the adhesion should be divided sub- cutaneously. The patient is anaesthetised, and a strong Graefe's knife is entered at a point about an inch distant from the scar, which is freely separated from the bone without button- holing the skin. The knife is withdrawn, and the cavity thus formed fills at once with blood, which raises the scar to a level with the surrounding skin. This level is maintained for some days by passing two hare-lip pins at right angles to each other through the normal skin and across the cavity. If necessary the margins of the lids may be brought together with strapping, or united temporarily with sutures, until healing has taken place. When the loss of tissue is not great and the lower lid alone is drawn down, the defect can be remedied by Warton Jones' V Y operations. The patient is anaisthetised, and an incision is made throiigh the skin and subcutaneous tissue from just below the inner canthus, obliquely down and out to a point below the lowest part of the scar. A second incision from near the outer canthus is made to join the end of the first. The V-shaped flap, which should not be too pointed, is dissected up until the margin of the lid can be raised to its normal position, where it is retained by one or more hare-lip pins. One of these pins is passed from one side to the other of the wounds, transfixing and securing the flap in its new position, where it is retained by a figure-of-eight suture made over its ends. The leg and sides of the Y are united by interrupted sutures. When union has taken place the hare-lip pin is removed, and the edge of the lid remains at its normal position. If the loss of tissue is too great to be remedied in this manner, an incision can be made in the skin or scar of the lower lid parallel to its free margin. If the raw area is not too large it can be covered by a flap of skin with a pedicle, which is dissected up from the neighbouring