EPILEPSY 155 uf the eyes up to spasm of the whole inusculav system. But there are sevei'al forms of coarse brain disease which may give rise to convulsions not diftcring from those of idiopathic epilepsy. Such are thrombosis of the cerebral blood- vessels, both in the old and in the young; chronic meningo-encephalitis of specific nature, old-standing foci of htemorrhage, and in adults, intracranial new-growths, during their incipient stage. Etiology.—(a) In its relation to the total population difficulties arise in reaching satis- factory statistical results as to the prevalency of epilepsy. First, no census for this purpose has been taken in the United Kingdom, while those made abroad have been only partial ; and, secondly, epilejDsy is so closely related in the early years of life to idiocy and iml)ecility, and in the later years to insanity, that it is almost impossible satisfactorily to separate them for statistical purposes. A few facts may be stated as to the estimated number of adult epileptics. The estimate is given as 1 per 1000 in Germany, 2 per 1000 in the State of New York, and 2-5 per 1000 of total population in the Canton Aargau in Switzerland. Of 10,000 young men who presented themselves for military duties in Italy, 11'5 were rejected owing to epilepsy, the proportion being just over 1 per 1000. The probable proportion, therefore, of adult epileptics to the total poi)ulation averages from 1 to 1'5 per 1000 in the Eui'opean countries. In the Australasian colonies it has been found that the proportion was lower than that estimated for Europe and America. For example, in Victoria there appears to be 1 epileptic in every 2715 of population—approximately, an average of -25 per 1000. These estimates embrace all cases of epilepsy, including asylum cases. It may, ■therefore, be considered a fair average when it 1 is stated that in Great Britain there is roughly 1 epileptic in every 1000 of the population. (6) That epilepsy should have existed in the .parents or progenitors of an epileptic person does not seem to be essential. A tendency to •one of the neuroses, more especially insanity •and alcoholism, is sufficient. The statistics of .those who have studied similar heredity ap- proximate with a sufficient amount of uniformity .to be of value. Thus Reynolds found it in •31 per cent of his cases, Gowers in 35 per cent, Berger in 32 per cent, and Echeverria in 27 per cent. It has been pointed out that when an inherited tendency exists, the female members of the family suffer more frequently tlian the ■males. Bouchet has shown the relation of parental epilepsy upon the incidence of con- vulsions in the offspring by referring to 58 children born of 14 epileptic mothers. Of •these, 37 died in infancy from convulsions, and •■of the remaining 21, 7 became epileptic. The oft-mentioned relation between phthisis and epilepsy appears to be of the nature of a coincidence, as it is not greater than amongst those who are not epileptics. (c) The age of the individual in relation to the incidence of epilepsy is clearly determined by statistics. The commonest period for the commencement of epileptic fits is during the second decade of life. Of 1450 cases collected by Gowers, 39 per cent commenced during this period ; of 995 cases collected by Hasse, 36 per cent; and of 980 cases by McLane Hamilton, 27 per cent. In the remainder of Gowers' cases there were 28 per cent in the first decade, 14 per cent in the third, and 5 per cent in the fourth decades. During the second decade the years from thirteen to seventeen inclusive are most favourable to the onset of epilepsy. Reynolds pointed out that when there was a marked hereditary influence, the disease began somewiiat earlier than in those in which no such history was obtained. Many epileptics give a clear history of con- vulsions in infancy. In some the infantile convulsions have never entirely disappeared, and in them a direct connection may be traced between the early convulsive seizures and the subsequent epileptic attacks. In others, how- ever, a definite period intervenes between the subsidence of the convulsions and the onset of true epilepsy about the time of puberty. Hence the history of so-called " teething fits" is not at all uncommon amongst those who, towards the end of puberty, become epileptic. In about one-third only of the total number of cases of epilepsy is the presence of an exciting cause obtained. With a view to associate the origin of their malady with some definite causation, many conjectural circum- stances are narrated by the patient or his friends, most of which have little or no direct 1 influence. Of the causes usually assigned, the commonest is mental emotion, such as worry, fright, and prolonged anxietj'. Traumatism, for instance, blows, falls, or kicks upon the head, much more commonly leads to convulsions of the Jacksonian type, from local injury to the brain, than to the production of true epilepsy. But whether cerebral injury is due directly to traumatic causes, or arises from so-called idiopathic con- ditions, such as infantile hemiplegia, convulsions may eventually ensue indistinguishable from those of true epilepsy {see "Convulsions," " Brain, Surgery of"). These are, however, more local in their commencement, and affect one side of the body more than the other. Of the exanthemata scarlatina is the most common cause, apart from nc]ihritis or cerebral thrombosis arising from middle ear disease. Typhoid fever and measles are less frequent agents. There is no clear evidence that secondarj- syphilis is a factor in the causation of true