GOUT 512 doubt that the subjects of inherited gouty tendencies are better without any form of liquor, this is frequently not so in the case of the patients more or less habituated to the use of stimulants. In judging of the suitability of the various liquors we must have regard to the usual methods of preparation of the individual beverages, e.g. beer, claret, champagne, etc., and to their common defects as recognised by experts in tlie trade. While these are outside the scope of this work, I think it well to indi- cate that their appreciation helps to explain the diverse views often expressed regarding the various liquors. Tlie free consumption of ivater can be safely recommended to many, but not to all, gouty subjects. In the case of stout adult pletiioric subjects it may be advisable to restrict its use to eai'ly morning and late evening indulgence. The water is, as a rule, best taken on an empty stomach. The use of potash and lithia waters and various table waters are elsewhere referred to. With regard to tea, coffee, and cocoa, when suitably prepared these beverages may be par- taken in moderate amount, but idiosyncrasies in their use are very often encountered. To some, cocoa is specially injurious, to others the daily consumption of coffee is soon followed by digestive and other disturbances, and in these cases special restrictions are called for. The amount of sugar allowed should be small. All sweet beverages should be restricted or cut off, more especially if they be in addition aerated. With regard to alcoholic beverages, points already referred to are of supreme importance. The decision as to what any given case can take, may only be arrived at after a careful study of the history, diet, and state of muscular activity in each case. There is no doubt that malt liquors and sweet wines are much more injuri- ous than other liquors. The sweet wines include champagne, Maderia, port, sherry. Malmsey, and Tokay; also porter, ale, and cider. Burgundy, Bordeaux, Rhine, and Moselle are almost void of sugar, and are therefore more suitable. The greater acidity of Burgundy and the Rhenish wines makes them, on the \vhole, less suitable than claret and Moselle wine. German beer, e.g. lager, can frequently be taken with impunity, when even one glass of the British beers will induce some acute dis- turbance. Medicinal Treatment and Mineral Waters Some idea of the relative importance of medicinal remedies will have been gained from what has been already said in the general introduction to " Therapeutics." What we know with certainty may be summed up in the statement that all drugs which exert a normal diuretic action have a beneficial influence, and the greater the diuresis the more the benefit. Opinions will probably always vary as to the respective values of salts of potassium, lithium, and sodium, piperazin, urotropin, coichicum, salicylate of soda, guiacum, and other remedies, and individual experience will lead to perfectly honest but very divergent opinions regarding them. The more powerful diuretic action of citrate of lithium and citrate and acetate of potassium makes them occupy a relatively higher position than the various soda salts. Lutt' has recently expressed the view, based on experimental observations, that the salts of sodium are to be deprecated owing to an influ- ence they exert in accelerating the transforma- tions of the gelatinous biurate to the crystalline form. Sir William Roberts held a similar opinion. General clinical experience does not corroborate this view, e.g. it is not reconcilable with the benefit imdoubtedly derived from the copious internal use of the Wiesbaden " Koch- brtinnen," which may be regarded as a strong solution of sodium chloride. Nor is it sup- ported by facts observed nearer home by many who use the sodium salts freely in combination with potassium or other salts, and it is perhaps wise to refer the greater value of potassium salts to their more powerful diuretic influences. An occasional short course of mineral waters is also an admirable measure. With regard to salicylate of soda my experience is in harmony with those who have not found the drug of any service in cases of typical gout. Of its value in some cases of chronic rheumatism, either when taken alone or in combination with quinine or other tonic, there can be no reasonable doubt, and it is advisable to give it a trial in doubtful cases. A useful mixture in some cases is Sodii salicylas, lithii salicylas, potassii citrat. aiii gr v. t. id. Various made-up combinations with coi- chicum lately in the market may also be tried, but much need not be expected from them. Salol (5 to 10 gr. t. id. on an empty stomach) and salicylate of bismuth (20 to 40 gr.) may also be useful in cases with subacute gastro- intestinal disturbance, but these must only be looked upon as adjuncts to appropriate treat- ment, and their use can only be necessary as the result of faulty dietary, usually combined with imperfect evacuation of the bowels. Guia- cum has been well spoken of, but its taste seriously intei'feres with its recommendation. The special value that attaches to the use of sulphurated waters leads to the belief that the continual administration of small doses of sulphur might be attended with marked benefit; and I have lately seen a patient, a shrewd man of affairs, with pronounced uratic deposits in the palms of both hands, and an unusually extensive knowledge of health resorts both in this country and abroad, who assured me that he had of late derived great benefit from the use of this remedy in the real old-fashioned way—a bag of sulphur in his trousers pocket.