58 ELECTRICITY applied to the patient are connected to the outer coatings of both condensers, by which means the muscles are thrown into tetanus as by faradism. High frequency currents may be obtained either from a large induction coil, a Wimshurst- Holtz machine with condensers and coils, or by utilising the alternating current of the street mains. The current produced is of extreme tenuity, but of enormously high potential. The sparks are painful, but if the electrode be grasped in the hand nothing can be felt, though an incandescent lamp will glow if placed in circuit between two persons connected to the lODguai) triceps (caput extern.) TJL cbtlactor poU!o. lif. iBtcioss. dorsQi, etU. IS., ulnar. cxtciD. il, anpiuat. brc^. M. o.Ytens. (ilgiti miQiaj, M. ejitcng, InUicri e«l£ns. poil. loutj. &f. abduct, (lleit, miu intcross. florscl. III. ctlV. terminals. This current, at a pressure of several hundred thousand volts, and oscillating a million or more times a second, if applied to the body by means of electrodes, produces only slight numbness and anaesthesia. Magneto-Electricity or Faradism.-—This current is produced by induction in a long coiled copper wire by suddenly magnetising a soft iron core. Outside this primary coil is a second coil of more numerous turns of fine wire. A usual proportion will be 700 turns of moderately thick wire for the primary coil, and 5000 turns of fine wire in a secondary coil. Two different currents are thus produced, the primary and the secondary. The primary or extra current of the coarse coil is the current that causes most of the sparking of the automatic interrupter. When the soft iron core is pulled out of the primary coil this sparking is much diminished, although the actual battery current is now slightly greater, owing to its having less work to perform in opposing the induced current at make. The secondary current may he regulated in strength either by sliding the secondary coil nearer or farther away from the primary, or by partially withdrawing the soft iron core, or by both means. The primary current is regulated only by pulling out the soft iron core, and the position of the secondary coil does not affect it. The cheaper forms of coil \ise the soft iron core as the magnet for breaking the battery current, in which case the primary current cannot be varied, but the better class of coils have a separate magnet for the automatic interrujjtor, which should be a rigid bar working against the tension of a coiled spring to ensure greater smoothness of vibration. Newer types of machine have a separate cell for working- the interrupter, in which case the rate of interruption is not affected by the strength of the coil current. The rate of vibration usually varies from 30 to 50 per second, though various devices are used for slowing or increasing the periodicity. Within certain limits the rate of vibration can be controlled by the contact screw of the interrupter. Engelmauia's machine, made by Waite and Bartlett of New York, is fitted with a motor interrupter, and the rate of vibrations can be controlled at will from 1 to 800 or 1000 per second, or even more. Wehnelt's electrolytic cell may be used for producing high speeds of interruption, as in X-ray work, but a high voltage is necessary to work it, 24 volts or more. The faradic current is, strictly speaking, an alternating current, but since the make shock is much weaker than that at break, it may be considered as practically unidirectional, and we may of a kathode and anode. The kathode is easily found, as it is the pole which elicits the stronger muscular contraction; this is true even in wasting muscle, so long as the muscle responds at all to faradism. There is no electro- lytic action in this current. The faradic current is used for diagnosis as the secondary current, and principally for estimating the irritability of nerves and muscles. It is, however, sometimes used for the diagnosis of nerve pain, as to whether neuralgic or due to neighbouring inflammation, as in Apostoli's method, by introducing one pole into the vagina or uterus in cases of pelvic pain. Neuralgic ovarian pain may often be cured by such an application of the fine coil current, while pain resulting from inflammation is unaltered. In speak