FONTANELLES 327 See Bregma ; Children, Clinical Examination OF (2%e Head); Hydrocephalus ; Labour, Physiology {Passenger, Foetus); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Symptoms, Fulness of Anterior Fontanelle); Rickets {Indi- vidual Symptoms, Head, Craniotahes); Spina Bifida {Complications, Bulging of Fontanelle). Food. I. Meat 327 II. Fish 329 III. Milk and Milk Products . . 331 IV. Colouring Matters and Preserva- tives ...... 333 V. Effects of Unsound Food . . 333 See also Allantiasis ; Appetite ; Asthma {Treatment, Diet); Atrophy, Infantile {Im- proper Feeding); Diet ; Digestion and Meta- bolism ; Feeding, Forcible ; Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy ; Infant Feeding ; In- testines, Diseases of {Enteritis); Invalid Feeding ; Milk ; Physiology, Food and Diges- tion ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Etiology, Food); Scurvy, Infantile {Causes); Scurvy in Adults {Causes); Toxi- cology {Poisoning by Coj)per., Lead, and Food Stuffs); Trades, Dangerous {Lead, Poisoning). I. Characteristics of Good Meat In all cases the carcase should be that of a well-nourished animal, without signs of wasting or attenuation; tlie pleura and peritoneum should be free from adhesions or staining. Good meat is firm and elastic to the touch, without oedema or emphysema, not pitting nor crackling on pressure ; it should be juicy, but not wet nor flabby ; the colour should be uni- form, without brown or discoloured patches. Good beef is of a bright red colour, marbled with fat; veal is always paler and less firm to the touch ; mutton is dullish red, firm, the fat hard and usually white; in both beef and mutton a uniform yellowness of the carcase, almost a saffron tint, may be associated with perfectly healthy conditions. The carcase of the pig should be plump; the flesh is naturally pale and the fat somewhat soft; the skin should not set in folds or wrinkles, and should be without stains or blotches ; bruises and scratches are not uncommon. In all cases when sufficient time has elapsed for the carcase to cool and set, the fat should be firm and the suet hard, con- taining no watery jelly or juice, free from blood- stains, and creamy white to yellowish in colour. Particular attention should always be paid to the connective tissue about the flanks, shoulders, and diaphragm and region of the kidneys; signs of wetness, axlema, imjjerfect setting, or diseased glands should be absent; the thoracic and ab- dominal parietcs should be without signs of old adhesions, staining, or evidence that anything has been stripped away, which is sometimes done to remove signs of inflammatory disease. The odour should be sweet and agreeable ; a skewer thrust deeply into the flesh should have no unpleasant odour when withdrawn. Bull beef, it must be remembered, is usually dark, but in other cases abnormal darkness of the flesh is to be regarded as suspicious of imperfect bleeding. The dressing should always be completed with as little delay as possible immediately after the animal has been killed. In the case of cattle, the animal, immediately it is knocked down, should be bled. Every few seconds which the blood remains in it is a matter of conse- quence, and tends to cause deterioration of the flesh. The advantage of the Jewish method of slaughtering cattle, namely, by cutting the throat, is that the blood does not remain in the carcase at ;dl after death. The viscera, especi- ally the abdominal viscera, should be removed as soon as possible, or staining will result. The appearance of the carcase is dependent to a considerable extent upon the manner in which it is dressed. A good butcher, clean, careful, and prompt in the dressing, will secure a better wholesale price than an indifferent one. Care should be taken to keep the carcase clean during the process, so as to lessen or prevent the neces- sity for washing. All badly dressed carcases should be regarded with suspicion, since diseased animals are frequently dressed hurriedly, and by unskilled hands, and present a slovenly appear- ance. But it must be remembered that some parts of the kingdom are noted for the bad dressing of the carcases, which are often packed and despatched to market before they have had time to cool and set, and carcases of calves are imported from Holland with their hides on and the dressing roughly and imperfectly done. The age of the animal will be recognised by the degree of ossification and the diminished amount of cartilage; older animals have less fat, and the flesh becomes firmer and harder. Still-born or newly-born calves have a watery appearance of flesh, the fat is tallow-like, and the hoofs yellow and soft, readily indented with the nail. Wherever possible, the viscera should be ex- amined ; in routine examination of meat it is essential that this should be done. Refrigerated meat is imported into this country in immense quantities, and usually in prime condition, and it keeps w-ell on exposure. Beef is imported in quarters wrapped in muslin cloths ; the fat is sometimes stained with the meat juice, which gives it a dullish red apjjearance. Carcases of sheep are imported entire, usuall}' wrapped in muslin cloths. When the thawing process sets in, it commences on the outside ; consequently the appearance of such meat may be uninviting on account of the wetness on the surface, but this wetness must not be confounded with the oedema of diseased meat, which is a very different condition.