FASCIA 257 be foi'gotten that the conti'action may affect the middle and forefingers, and even the thumb. In manj' cases both hands are affected, but not simultaneously nor to an equal degree. The right hand, however, is not so much more often affected than the left, as the theory of trauma- tism woidd seem to imply. Heredity is a distinct factor in its occurrence, about one in four cases presenting such a history. The age of onset is middle or late life. A fair propor- tion of cases occur in those who use the palm of the hand much in their daily work, e.g. carpenters, drivers, gardeners, etc., but Mr. W. Adams has shown that most of his cases were drawn from the professional classes, and in these instances there was one feature common to all, viz. a gouty inheritance. With reference to the causation, the first point is that Dupuytren's contraction is an affection of that time of life when filjroid changes are superven- ing, and the second point is that most of the cases have a gouty history. The actual onset is marked in some cases by a single injury to the palm of the hand, instances of which are the following quoted by Abbe :—A patient while climbing a ladder pierced his palm with a piece of frozen mortar and dated the onset of the affection from that time; and another patient, a civil engineer, had a long series of stakes to put into the ground and pressed them hard with his palm. The next day he had a sore palm and traced the affection directly back to this date. But more often we find a history of repeated and slight traumata. Ricard and Ricket record cases in syphilitic subjects in which the affection yielded to iodide of potassium. Abbe believes in a nervous origin of the affection, and Mr. William Anderson advocates the theory of bacterial origin in the following words :—" The situation of the initial lesion and the peculiar tendency of the new growth to feed like a parasite upon the tissues in which it spreads and which it replaces, have led me to believe strongly that the active agent of destruction is a specific micro-organism, which gains access to the subcutaneous tissues through accidental lesions of the epidermis, mostly effected by the finger-nails." But until Mr. Anderson's theory is substantiated we must fall back upon the gouty history and slight and repeated traumata for an explanation. The morbid anatomy of the affection is quite clear. It is primarily an induration and then a contraction of the palmar fascia, and after- wards of the skin, the tendons having nothing to do with it. The nature of the change is a fibroid hypertrophy, either in the local form of small filiromata or as a general hyperplasia. Beginning in the deepest part of the j^ahii, i-e. above the base of the ring finger, where a puckering of the skin appears, the contraction spreads downwards along the fascial prolonga- tions to the fingers until they are drawn down VOL. in into the palm. Bearing on the part played by gout in its production, a dissection by Mr. Lockwood, in which he found the fascial con- tractions incrusted with urate of soda, is of great value. The si/m2Jtoms commence with a feeling of tightness in the palm and ring and little fingers, and the patient finds some difli- culty in fully extending those fingers, and later there are some nodular indurations in the palm and considerable neuralgic pain in the hand. The skin becomes adherent, dry, and thickened, and a puckered dimple appears in the transverse crease of the palm. The fingers then become retracted into the palm initil the nails may wound it. The affection very rarely becomes spontaneously arrested, but is progressive, and the tips of the fingers touch the palm in about two years from the first onset. The diar/nosis should be made from congenital contraction of the finger, from flexion of the fingers due to adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths, and from contraction of the fingers, the result of osteoarthritis. But the typical appearances in Dupuytren's contraction are the nodular thicken- ing of the fascia, the adhesion of the skin, and the freedom of movement of the tendons in their sheaths. Treatment. — When the affection is at all marked the only measure available is operation. Mechanical extension is useless, painful, and harmful. The operative treatment is either by multiple subcutaneous puncture or excision of the affected fascia by the ojaen method. The best subcutaneous method is that practised by Mr. Adams, and consists in the introduction of a fine tenotome between the skin and fascia, freeing the skin first, and then dividing the fascia in several places so as to isolate the portions of it. Thirty or forty punctures are fre- quently required. The fingers are then bi'ought as far into the extended position as possible without using any force, and maintained there by a well-padded metal splint for three or four days until the punctures are healed. An ex- tension instrument is then applied for fourteen days or longer. The open method is to be preferred in the case of those wdio are unable to devote much time to the treatment, such as manual labourers, but it necessitates complete confidence in aseptic measures. The writer has practised it success- fully on several occasions and has every reason to be satisfied with it. An Esmarch's bandage is applied, and a longitudinal incision is made in the palm from just below the line of the superficial palmar arch to the root of the finger most affected. If more space is required, a transverse incision is made at either end of the longitudinal, the flaps are dissected back, and all the contracted fascia in the palm is dis- sected out, taking great care not to wound the nerves. The contracted bands on the lateral aspects of the fingers are divided subcutaneously, 17