443 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF known as the caruncula; myrtiformes. Behind the hymen are the fossa navicularis and the foun-hette, which have been already described ; it may be noted that the fourchettc is very often torn in the first parturition. Behind the fourcliette is the skin covering the base of the perineal body. Reference in passing has been made to the vaginal or vestibular bulbs. These are elongated masses of veins lying at the sides of the vestibule and vaginal orifice in close relation with the constrictores vaginse muscles. They are about the size of a bean, but in an injected condition have a length of about 4 cm.; they have a somewhat conical form, and their apices lie at the level of the meatus iirinarius, where they communicate by the pars intermedia, wliile their bases are situated opjjosite the lower third of the vaginal orifice ; and they consist of complicated venous plexuses in a fibrous sheath. They communicate freely with surrounding veins. In addition to the sudoriparous, sebaceous, and mucous glands of the vulva already referred to there remain for description two structures known as the vulvo-vaginal glands, glanduLe vestibulares majores, or the glands of Bartholin, Duverney, or Mery. These are two small oval bodies, having the size of a bean or an almond, and situated on either side of the vaginal orifice near the posterior ends of the vaginal bulbs. They lie beneath the superficial perineal fascia, are racemose, mucous, or sero-mucous glands, consist of niunerous acini lined with cohmmar epithelium, and discharge their secretion by an exci'etory canal which opens at the point of union of the posterior third with the anterior two-thirds of the vaginal orifice in the furrow- separating the hymen from the internal surface of the labium minus. The clitoris is the representative of the genital tubercle of the emV^ryo, and the labia are the edges of the genital cleft. Behind the genital tubercle there is in the early stages of develop- ment a cloaca common to the urogenital canal and to the rectum ; but through the growth of a septum which becomes the perineal body the rectal canal is separated from the space in front known as the urogenital sinus. Later the vesico-vaginal septum divides the ui'ogcnital sinus into two parts, the urethra and the vagina. vVccording to some, the hymen is simply the lower end of the vaginal mucous membrane everted ; according to others, it is formed from the external genitals ; and according to Hart, it is due to the breaking down of the Wolffian bulbs from which the vagina receives its epi- blastic lining. The jiuscur.AR and connective tissues lining and bridging across the pelvic cavity now fall to be described. The pelvic peritoneum with its pouclies and duplicatures has V)een considered, but it is necessary to refer to the muscular structures which lie below it and modify by their presence the diameters of the osseous pelvis. The iliacus muscle on each side lessens the depth of the internal iliac fossa; while the psoas muscle and the vessels near it change the shape of the pelvic brim and diminish the trans- verse diameter of the brim by about 1 cm. The iliacus and psoas muscles together increase the depth of the pelvic cavity. It may also be noted here that the presence of the rectum causes the left oblique diameter at the brim to be a little less than the right. The obtiu-ator internus and pyriformis muscles narrow the transverse and the oblique diameters of the cavity, while the bladder, urethra, and rectum diminish its antero - posterior diameter. The most important soft parts of the pelvis, how- ever, are those which fill up the pelvic outlet and form the pelvic floor or diaj^hragm ; to the description of these some space must now be given. The PELVIC FLOOR is composed of skin, mucous membrane, fascijB, muscles, and fat; into its composition it may be counted also that the bladder and rectum enter; and although it forms a compact diaphragm it is nevertheless a diaphragm traversed by clefts or lines of dis- placement, represented by the vaginal and urethral canals. The floor may be studied first by dissection, and second by sections; in this way its dissectional and its structural anatomy are both brought out. On the inner aspect of the pelvic floor lie the uterus, the Fallopian tubes, broad ligaments, ovaries, and the pelvic 23eritoneum; and on its outer aspect lie the external organs of generation ; all these struc- tures have been described. The dissection of the floor is usually undertaken from without inwai-ds. Its skin surface shows a median depression consisting of an anterior cleft in which lie the external organs of generation and a posterior or natal cleft in which is situated the anal aperture. The anus is about 1 inch in length, and is jjarallel to the axis of the brim of the pelvis, and is in consequence at right angles to the axes of the vagina, rectum, and urethra, for these are all parallel to the plane of the brim. It lies about 4 cm. behind the hymen or fourchette, being separated therefrom by the skin over the perineal hoAy. It has an internal and an external sphincter. The jjart of the pelvic floor which projects beyond the plane of the outlet of the osseous pelvis is termed the pelvic floor projection ; it measures al)out 3 cm. Below the skin of the posterior part of the pelvic floor are situated the super- ficial fascia, and on each side the base of the ischio-rectal fossa. This fossa has an outer wall formed by the obturator internus, an inner and upper wall composed of the levator ani and the anal sphincter ; its apex is the point of junction of these two muscles, and its base lies between the transversus perinei and the edge of the gluteus maximus. It contains much fat. Under the skin of the anterior part of the floor lies the