15 ECTOPIC GESTATION condition is known as tubal abortion. Tlie ostium is found enlarged and patulous, and the abortion lies in the free blood in the abdominal cavity. On the other hand, when the ovum is situated 7iear the fimbriated extremity its life- history may be the same as that of an ampullar pregnancy (to be considered later), resulting in development within the tube, rupture, intra- peritoneal or extra-peritoneal, or the formation of a tubal mole. 3. Am.pnllar Tubal Pregnancy.—This variety, in which the ovum is implanted in the middle portion of the tube, is the commonest of all, and the changes which take place in and around it fall now to be discussed in detail. These changes are, to a greater or less extent, common to all varieties of tubal gestation. During the first few weeks the iDortion of the tube which contains the impregnated ovum becomes veiy much swollen and extremely vas- cular. The musciilar tissue is also hyper- trophied, bvit after the sixth week, and indeed, in some cases from the very commencement of pregnancy, a process of thinning sets in. The mucous membrane becomes stretched, and its plicae disappear, while the muscular tissue becomes thinned and to a certain extent re- placed by fibrous tissue. As the pregnancy advances the wall of the tixbe appears as a mere transparent membrane composed of the attenu- ated layer of muscular and fibrous tissue and of peritoneum. At the same time important changes are taking place at the abdominal ostium. It shares in the congestion and swelling of the parts; the fimbrite become turgid; the peri- toneum surrounding the ostium becomes more and more swollen, until it projects as a ring beyond the fimbriaj, and finally about the eighth week contracts and hermetically closes the ostium. The condition of the ostium affects the subsequent history of the pregnancy, for, although a gravid tube with a patent abdominal ostium may rupture, there is always a possi- bility of "tubal abortion." If the ostium is occluded rupture is inevitable. The changes at the uterine end of the tube have not been so thoroughly investigated, but in a few instances the lumen has been found patent. In all probability, until there is some attempt at a difi'erentiation of the placental site, the ovum is freely movable. But afterwards, if the ovum goes on growing and a placental site is determined, the relations between the ovum and tube become very close and intimate. The ovum is soon embedded in the thickened mucous membrane, which gradually loses its character- istic plicaj, but probably no genuine decidual tissue is formed as was originally suggested by Webster. Where the ovum settles the chorionic villi dip into the mucosa as they do in ordinary pregnancy into the decidual serotina. The foetal membranes develop exactly as in the case of inti-a-uterine jaregnancy. In a normal preg- nancy the placenta is composed almost equally of decidua serotina and chorion frondosum, but in tubal gestation " the mucous membrane plays a very insignificant part, the placenta being mainly if not entirely derived from the foetal tissues " (Bland-Sutton). Until primary rupture takes place the placenta is developed entirely in relation to the mucous membrane lining the tube, but after this event, if the pregnancy still goes on, important modi- fications take place. The effects of rupture on the placenta have been especially treated by Hart, who points out that if the embryo be situated above the placenta the latter becomes depressed between the layers of the broad ligament until it reaches the pelvic floor. If, on the other hand, the embryo is below the placenta, the latter is pushed up until it lies high in the abdomen. From a study of extra-uterine placenta Hart points out that in tubal gestation the villi are embedded in decidual cells; there is no inter- villous sinus system, but large sinuses are found in the muscular wall. When the placenta is displaced from extra-peritoneal ruptui'e it be- comes damaged, and is reduced to a mass of compressed villi, and its function is extensively impaired. The placenta sustains the least damage when the embryo is situated above it, because then there is less disjjlacement, and further, when the placenta grows up into the abdomen there is much greater risk of intra- jDcritoneal rupture and of fatal hasmorrhage. With regard to the effect on the foetus of the changes in the site and development of the placenta, the placenta performs its function in- efficiently in any case, but when situated below the embryo, in the mesosalpinx, the nourish- ment of the child is not so greatly interfered with. A foetus, even when delivered by the surgeon at or near full time, rarely lives more than a few days or weeks, and is defective in size, or presents some more or less evident malforma- tion. During the early weeks of extra-uterine preg- nancy changes of hypertrophy and development are also in progress in the uterus itself, similar to those which occur during the early months of a normal pregnancy. The organ increases in size up till the third month of extra-uterine pregnancy, and although no decidual membrane forms within the Fallopian tube around the growing ovum, a thick, soft, spongy decidua develops within the uterine cavity. This de- cidua is often expelled; it may be entire, when it is a complete cast of the interior of the uterus—the inner surface smooth and the outer surface rough and shaggy—or it may be dis- charged in fragments. This passage of decidual membrane iia whole or in part is a most im- portant sign in diagnosis, as we shall see later.