(iOUT 506 in no way interfere with the general application of this principle. More harm resnlts from too little than from too much exercise, and we should remember that the name of exercise is often given to bodily exertion so gentle that no increased activity of inner respiration results. When time and opjjortuuities do not allow sufficient exercise i)i the open air, a fair substi- tute is found in the various available forms of home gymnastics, and in many cases a judicious combination of the two is very desirable. In all cases attention should be directed to those groups of muscles whicii, from the patient's occupation or disposition, are apt to be largely or entirely neglected. Still more active measures are frequently ad- visable in cases with chronic joint affections, or in the case of involvement of fascia or local nuiscular and connective tissues. Such cases may be much benefited by vai-ious forms of active and passive movements. The benefit to be derived from this therapeutic measure may l)e emphasised by the fact that not a few typically gouty (usually irregular gout) adult subjects, men and women, regularly undergo, of their own accord, a course of medical gymnastics in one of the numerous Swedish mechanical institutes available for this purpose at the various foreign spas. A further general considei'ation requiring attention is the state of the central nervous xystem. While the importance of this factor in this, as in most other diseases, is undoubted, there is, I think, a tendency to lay undue stress on it. While it is true that recurring indica- tions of dechired gout not frequently appear to be dependent on nervous causes, in so far as its manifestations declare themselves after some mental perturbation, typical attacks of acute gout occur with sufficient frequency, both in elderly and younger subjects, quite independ- ently of any such exciting cause to justify us not laying very great stress on the relationship. Fui'ther, most of the undoubtedly gouty develop- ments in young subjects ai'ise and recur aj)par- ently indeiicndent of any direct nervous in- fluence. On this ground, also, we are led not to lay very great stress on the nervous system as the factor of primary importance. Its ulti- mate importance cannot be gainsaid. It is one of the factors which continually varies the aspects of the disease. Derangements in the digestive si/stein play an exceedingly important role in the development both of acute and chronic gout, and these derangements usually depend either on im- moderate eating or drinking, or on the ingestion of articles of diet especially unsuited to the individual. The probable relationship of these digestive disturbances to the phenomena of acute and chronic gout has already been re- ferred to, but be that what it may, the import- ance of a. well-regulated and healthy intestinal mucous membrane cannot be over-estimated. Auto-intoxication is certainly a primary factor in the disease, and has to be guarded against by careful dieting, healthy intestinal secretion, and normal intestinal evacuation. Thei'e is no doubt that in a certain proportion of cases a hydragogue cathartic, taken on the first indi- cation of impending trouble, will avert the acute attack, and it is advisal)le to insist at all times on the closest attention being paid to tiie action of the bowels. While we have yet to learn much about the secretory or excretory influence of the lai-ge intestine, we may safely assume that by judicious purgation we do much more than merely free the system of the un- digested food-stufts present in the gut. The vigour of the constitution must be the standard by which the depletion is regulated, and where such vigour is deficient, measures of the same activity should not be pursued as are necessary when the system is robust. Not infrequently in the coui'se of subacute or chronic gout there is developed a subacute or chronic catai-rh of the gastric and intestinal mucosa, which in turn aggravates and complicates the general gouty state. Such a complication merely leads to a more strict application of the general principles of the dietetic treatment appropriate to the disease. Dietetic Treatment It is sometimes maintained that the influence of different food ingredients on the gouty con- stitution has been too much magnified, this assertion being based on two clinical facts— firstly, that a child fed entirely on milk may continue to excrete lai'ge quantities of uric acid ; and, secondly, that an adult patient who has been excreting a similar excess on a light vegetarian diet ma}' speedil}' improve and return to a normal excretion when his diet is changed to meat. This view is based on too narrow a conception of the problems. The little we know with certainty regarding gout seems to indicate that the radical defect is in the metabolism of the proteids of the food. The metiibolic changes of the proteids of milk or vegetables are essen- tially similar to those in meat, and we have no reason to believe that the decomposition pro- ducts arising fi'om the normal metabolism of the one are in any way different from those in the other. Any differences there may be are those of degi-ee and not of kind. Everything depends on the form in which the food-stuffs are pre- sented. It sometimes strikes me that in this question of feeding we find an interesting analogy in the art of agriculture. A scientific farmer in the feeding of his land has not only to consider the natural quality of the soil, but also the climate, rainfall, and nature of the product desired. Of the food required by the growing plant the element nitrogen is also one of the mainstays, and it is usually provided in one of