EQUILIBRIUM 173 may cause the disorder, but the most notaljle disturbances due to morbid processes iu this sphere are seen in Meniei'e's disease, otherwise known as auditory vertigo, in which the labyrinth is supposed to be the seat of the morbid change. The subjects of this malady •are prone to attacks of vertigo, which may be very severe, and which may even cause the victim to fall with the suddenness of one shot. The nocturnal vertigo experienced by some people on first going to sleep has also been regarded as of labyrinthine origin, possibly the result of altered pressure in the labyrinth. Many deaf mutes fail to appreciate the position of their bodies, and may also be unable to co- ordinate their movements properly ; the failure to maintain their balance is most marked in the dark, though it may be quite evident without the exclusion of light. It is uncertain how many of the cases in which giddiness is an accompaniment of gastric dis- turbance are to be ascribed to the visceral disorder as the sole cause, in that a large number of cases formerly so regarded are now attributed to labyrinthine disturbances, nevertheless gastric and intestinal disturbance may excite an attack of vertigo in one so predisposed. The frequency with which vertigo is met with in association with gastro-intestinal affections, without any other evidence of labyrinthine disease, suggests the possibility that disturbance of equilibration may arise from this cause independently of any affection of the labyrinth. Vertigo may further be a symptom in many other affections, as for instance in neurasthenia, hysteria, antemia, and so forth, while in some cases no ascertained or probable cause is forthcoming. A curious class of cases in jDoint is that in which sudden attacks of vertigo occur from time to time, it may be attended with vomiting and various vaso-motor phenomena, while in the intervals there is a complete freedom from any like manifestations. Equinia,. See Glanders, Farcy. Equinus. Bee Deformities {Club Foot, Talipes EijuinmY Era.Sion. — Scraping away the diseased structures in a joint or removing them with knife or scissors, the articulation having first been opened into (arthrectomy). See Ankle-Joint, Region of. Operations {Erasion of the Ankle- Joint) ; KxEB-Joint, Diseases of {Arthrectomy of the Knee, Erasion). Erb'S Paralysis. — Paralysis due to injury of the l)rachial plexus {e.g. during the birth of an infant) in its fifth or fifth and sixth roots. See Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections. Erb'S Paraplegia.—Syphilitic spinal paralysis, perhaps due to a form of transverse myelitis. See Paralysis {SjMstic Paraplegia, Syphilitic Paraplegia of Erh). Erb'S SigTl. See Tetany {Motor Signs, Electrical Reactions). Erb-Gold-flam's Syndrome. See Myasthenia <Ikavis. Erectile Tissue. See Bone, Diseases of {Erectile Timiours of Bone); Nose {Affections of Septmn Nasi, Hypertrophy of Erectile Tissue). Eremophobia.—Morbid fear of solitude (Gr. iinyio'i, solitude, and f/jo/ios, fear). Erepsin. — An enzyme which splits up peptone and other proteids into their non-proteid crystalline constituents, such as the di-amido acids and non-amido acids. Its use in cases of cancer has been suggested. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Secretion of the Intestinal Wall). Erethism.—Morbid irritability or excite- ment ; also, delirium tremens. Erg'Og^raph. — A work-measurer, e.g. a wheel turned against measured resistance. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle Work, Relation oj Heat Production to Work Pi-odnctioib). Erg'Ophobia.—Dr. W. D. Spanton defines ergopholiia as follows {Brit. Med. Journ. i. for 1905, p. 300): " The working man . . . has dis- covered that it often pays better to idle and loaf about than to work, and the consequence is that a new disease has been engendered, which I have termed 'ergophobia.'" ;.b'ec a/.so Malingering. Erg'Ot. See also Aneurysm {Treatment, Injection of Ergotin); Colour Vision {Acquired Col our-Blindness); Drug Eruptions {Ergot); Gangrene (Varieties); Insanity, Etiology of {Toxic Causes, Exotoxic); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties, Toxcumic); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Effect of Ergot in Obstructed Labour); Labour, Post- partum Haemorrhage {Treatment); Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic); IIaynaud's Disease {Dia- gnosis, Ergotism) ; Spasm (Varieties, I'oxins) ; Tetany {Causation, Chronic Ergotism); Toxi- cology {Abortifacients, Acute and Chronic Ergot- Poisoning).—The sclerotium of the fungus Clavi- ceps ■purpurea, found in the form of black horny- looking masses about one inch long on the common rye (secale cereale). It decomposes even when whole, and should therefore be used as fresh as possible. Dose—20-60 grs. of recently prepared powder infused in boiling water. The most important constituents of ergot are : 1. Sphacelinic acid, causing a tonic contraction of the uterus, and constriction of blood-vessels; 2. Cornutine, said to produce rhythmic contrac- tions of the uterus; 3. Ergotinic acid, a gluco- side with little action ; 4. Ergotinin, an alkaloid.