FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF 316 throws off new buds. These changes occur most markedly in the compact superficial layer of the serotina, but occasionally buds may be found to have bored their way right through the decidua into the uterine musculature. While the invasion of the serotina by the villi is proceeding, large hfemorrhages are formed in the membrane. Many capillaries, or even larger vessels, are penetrated by the plasmodial buds, and from these extravasation occurs, leading to the collection of large blood-lacunse in which buds and villi may be found lying. These lacunte finally rupture into the chorio- decidual space, and thus throw fresh maternal vessels into communication with it. The larger lacunae have often been shown to have an arteiy, and one or two veins communicating Fig. 8.—Am., amnion ; CTi., chorion ; V, villi; S, decidua serotina ; Fj, attached vi F2, vein ; A, artery ; D.Sc, subchorionic decidua. (Playfair.) with them. The precise period at which the maternal circulation through the chorio-decidual space is established is unknown, nor are the precise steps in the further process of develop- ment finally determined. It is doubtful if there is any true maternal circulation in the temporary diffused placenta; there is a good deal of clotting in the chorio-decidual space in very young ova, and the villi probably absorb nutriment from the effused blood. In the fully- formed placenta it is, however, easy to show that large maternal arteries and veins open directly upon the serotinal surface. To Wal- deyer belongs the credit of first demonstrating this fact by injecting the uterine arteries and veins in the cadaver of a pregnant woman. The arteries preserve their characteristic coiling course through the serotina (Fig. 7, a), and then open somewhat abruptly into the spaces; the veins run an oblique course and open by long oblique mouths. Arterial may be dis- tinguished from venous openings by (1) the thickness of the walls; (2) the direction of the opening ; (3) the fact that villi are washed away from the mouths of the arteries by the blood current, while they may be drawn by the same force into the mouths of the veins. While these changes are progressing the ovum is held to the uterine wall chiefly by the reflexa; later on the placenta becomes firmly united to the uterus and constitutes its main attachment. The delicate character of the early attachment of the ovum is an important factor in determining the frequency with which abortion occurs at this period; when the placenta is fully formed it is much less easily disturbed. The foetal and maternal elements of the placenta are united by the following means (Fig. 8) :—(1) Many of the villi remain embedded in the serotina; (2) Processes grow up from the serotina among the villi, sometimes reaching as far as the chorionic membrane, and many villi are united to them by their tips; (3) From the serotinal margin a process of decidual tissue grows towards the centre of the placenta in contact with the outer surface of the chorionic membrane ; this layer is called the mhchorionic decidua, and may be traced in the ripe placenta for one or two inches (Fig. 8, B.Sc.) Being continuous around the whole circumference of the placenta it serves to strengthen the attachments where they are weakest, and also to limit cir- cumferentially the general sys- tem of intervillous spaces through which the maternal blood flows. The circulation through the intervillous spaces is probably not rapid. The coiling course of the uterine arteries diminishes the force of the blood stream, and therefore the vis a tergo in the spaces; the outflow is largely promoted by the intermitteiat uterine contrac- tions, which have the effect of aspirating their contents into the veins. A slow current is an advantage in allowing time for osmotic inter- changes. The placenta grows very rapidly during the first few weeks after its foi-mation; it en- croaches more and more over the uterus until by the end of the third month it occupies one- fourth of the total uterine surface. At the same time the ovum becomes large enough to entirely fill the uterine cavity; the decidua reflexa comes into apposition with the vera and fuses with it, forming a single membrane. The ovum is thus directly sujjported by the uterine walls, and from this point onwards uterus and ovum grow pari passu, and the proportion of the uterine surface occupied by the placenta remains at one-fourth. The placenta is limited at its margin by the line of reflection of the decidua (reflexa) upon the ovum. Previous to