EPILEPTIC COLONIES 163 instructors, nurses, attendants, and servants, it is scarcely likely that the whole can be main- tained without financial assistance from outside. Influence of the Colony System upon Epileptics. — The remarks which follow are based on observations upon the epileptics at the colony belonging to the National Society for the Employment of Epileptics at the farm at Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks. The guiding principles of the management of epileptics in colonies are :— (1) Eemoval of the epileptic from the town to the country.—The observations which have been made on this point during the colony's existence amply testify to the good which this change is capable of producing. Many of the colonists arrive in a state of mental and physical debility out^of all proportion to the frequency or severity of the epileptic seizures. Under these conditions it is impossible to put them upon full work. In a short time, however, aided no doubt by other ameliorating circumstances, the colonist is able to do his share, and to V)e the better of doing it. (2) Regular employment.—This is a factor of the utmost importance, more especially when it is borne in mind that inability to obtain work, which is the common history before admission, has a bad influence upon the general condition of the epileptic. The epileptic is, as a rule, of a hopeful nature, and unless he is reduced by the disease to a state of pennanent dementia, believes himself capable of efiecting good and useful work. Encouragement in this direction is one of the objects of the colony system. Acting upon various observations which have from time to time been made, it is attempted to give each colonist that kind of work to which he most readily adapts himself, without at the same time confining him either to outdoor or indoor em- ployment. (3 and 4) A well-ordered and regular mode of life, with avoidance of excitement and abstin- ence from alcoholic liquors, and abundance of nourishment of a simple nature, are points which do not require more than to be mentioned. I may now briefly consider the effect of such general care and treatment upon the individual epileptics, and for this purpose look at it from the following points of view :— 1. Frequency of the Fits.—In the majority a marked diminution in the number of the attacks is observed after admission to the colony. This is probaljly due directly to the removal of the epileptic from bad hygienic surroundings in the town to a pure country air, with abundance of simple diet and a well-regulated regime. In a minority there is a temporary increase in the number of fits, which may be due to the fact that previously to admission larger doses of bromide have been taken, this being entirely withdrawn except for a small dose at bedtime. In both instances after a short time the average number of fits is struck, and this is fomid to vary largely in different cases. The greater number of fits occur during the day, and by far the commonest time is during the first hour after rising in the morning. The attendants have found that fits are rare on going to bed, and that as a rule the patients are much better and brighter during the evening. A point of some interest is that more fits occur in the house than outside in the garden or fields, and this apart from greater difficulty in registering the number outside. 2. Severity of the Fits.—Here, again, there is a majority in which an amelioration in the severity of the attacks occurs, while in a minority no material alteration is noticed, and in some a decided tendency towards increase in sevei'ity. Upon this point, however, it is more difficult to obtain accurate observations. In some of the colonists severe fits gave place to attacks of petit mal; in others, attacks of an average nature became more severe. 3. General Mental State. — In quite a minority thei'e has been a progressive tendency towai-ds dementia. In some it appeared to be tlie natural course of the disease. In others it was owing to the frequency and severity of the fit,s, or of both combined. In the greater number no such mental deterioration has been observed. On the whole, the mental state of the colonists, consider- ing the duration of the disease, is good. Some of them are capable of work requiring individual alertness and tact, while most are able to do good work under supervision. But the greatest benefit which this system of treatment is capable of producing lies in the general moral effect which it has upon the individuals. These persons amongst the poorer classes are in many instances regarded as "family lepers," the outcasts of the community, between whom and their relatives there is little sympathy. In a colony each epileptic is readily brought to see that he is as useful a person as his more highly favoured brother if placed under proper conditions. Here interest is taken in his work, in his mode of life, and in his amusements, Avith the natural result that he takes greater interest in himself, and obtains a feeling of higher self-respect. 4. General Physical State.—It is under this heading that the greatest improvement has been noticed. Without exception the general health of each colonist has materially improved. They all put on weight, and this notwithstanding the fact that they may be subject to frequent and even severe fits. It is obvious that discretion should be used in the selection of applicants. The points to which attention is specially directed are :—Has the epileptic been unable to obtain employment owing to the frequency or severity of the seizures ? Is he (or she) capable of work under direction ? And it is clearly of importance to avoid selecting cases which show indications of