341 FOURTH DISEASE Erythema Infectiosum.—Under this title Eschenih of Vienna has recently (1904) described another infectious exanthem. Like fourtli disease, it has hitherto been confused with rotheln, but, except for this one point of resem- blance, the two diseases have nothing in common. So far, no confirmation of the existence of this disease has come from outside Germany, but apparently an epidemic eruptive fever, corre- sponding to that from which Eschcnih's patients suffered, had been described under various names —megalerythema epidemicum, scarlatinoid, mor- billoid, erytiiema simplex margenatum—by a number of observers in that country during the preceding 10 or 15 years. Esclienih, however, was the first to prove to the satisfaction of his countrymen that it was a separate entity, and his view appears to be generally accepted in Germany at the present day. The clinical features of this latest member of the family of the exanthemata are as follows:—It is an epidemic disease, which often follows outbreaks of rdthelii, and most commonly affects children between 4 and 12 years. It is feebly contagious, and neither protects from rotheln nor vice verm. The incubation is from 6 to 14 days. There are practically no symptoms, except the erup- tion ; pyrexia is absent or slight, thei-e is no implication of the mucosse, and there are no complications. The rash, however, is charac- teristic. It appears first on the face, spreading to the body on the second day. The distribu- tion is somewhat peculiar; the face and ex- tremities, particularly the extensor aspects, are most markedly affected, while there is frequently but a very sparse crop of spots on the trunk. The character of the eruption on the face is pathognomonic; tlie cheeks are swollen and covered with a red blush, giving a turgescent appearance, somewhat suggestive of erysipelas. The margins of the eruption are somewhat sharply defined. This confluent rash is boinided below by the nasolabial folds, and is rendered more apparent by the circumoral pallor, wdiile on the forehead and chin it occurs in more discrete measly papules. On the extremities the rash is morbilliform, arranged in geographi- cal outline, giving the appearance of a lacework, but tending to become confluent about the elbows and buttocks. The duration of the rash is from 6 to 10 days. There is no tendency to cutaneous hannorrhage, no glandular enlarge- ment, and no desquamation. Fourth Nerve. See Ocular Muscles, Affections oi--; 1]i;ain, Physiology {Cranial Nerves, Fourth); ]3rain'. Tumours of {LcKalising Symptoms, Cranial Nerves) ; Physiology, Ner- vous System {Craial Nerves, Trochlearis). Fovea.—A small depression or excavation ; a dimple ; a fossa. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Anatomy, Fovea Centralis). Foveola Coccygrea. — The little depression or dimple occasionally found over the tip of the coccyx and behind the opening of the anus (called on this account the " post-anal dimple ") ; it is generally single, but may be double, and it may be associated with spina bifida occulta, with sacro-coccygeal na3vus, and with coccygeal fistula or sinus j foveola retro- analis. Foveola Pharyng-ea. — A slight depression on the basi-oci-iput, representing a trace of the median canal of the basi- occiput. Fowler's Solution.—Liquor Arseni- calis. See Arsenic. Foxglove. See Digitalis ; Toxicology {Foxglove) ; etc. Fractures. Causes, Predisposing Causes, Determining "HO Classification .... Diagnosis ..... O^O Method of Examination Pathology of Repair, Aseptic, Im- mediate ..... on Pathology of Repair, Aseptic, Remote Pathology of Repair, Septic Prognosis ..... 345 Treatment— Reduction .... 346 Fixation ..... 346 Massage ..... 347 Ambulatory .... 348 Wiring ..... 348 Sequels ..... 348 Treatment of—hy Hot Air, etc. 348 Complications .... 349 Constitutional Symptoms 350 Special Fractures : • — Fractures of the Clavicle 350 Scapula ..... 353 Humerus .... 353 Radius and Ulna . 356 Ulna ..... 357 Radius ..... 357 Metacarpal Bones 357 Phalanges .... 358 Pelvis ..... 359 Femur ..... 360 Tibia and Fibula . 362 Fibula ..... 365 Tibia ..... 366 Tarsus ..... 366 Metatarsal Bones . 366 Metatarsal Phalanges . 366 See also Ankle-Joint, Region of. Injuries {Fractures near Joint, of Astragalus, and of ^ These exclude fractures in the immediate neighbour- hood of joints, for which see " Ankle-joint," " Elbow- Joiut," etc.