FALLOPIAN TUBES 254 hypogastric pains set in, followed by dysuria. A tumour was detected four years later. The patient had been subject to monorrhagia from girlhood, hence uterine myoma was suspected. The tumour continued increasing very slowly for eight years. It then formed a great, hard, elastic, abdominal tumour, very irregular in form and highly nodular; it had invaded the pelvis. The tumour was removed, it did not adhere to the parietes, but the omentum was almost incorporated with it, and there were firm adhesions to the uterus, bladder, csecum, vermiform appendix, and rectum. The adherent uterine fundus had to be amputated, the rest of the organ being fixed to the parietes after application of the thermo-cautery to the cut surface. The patient made a good recovery. The tumour weighed over 4 lbs ; it consisted of the two Fallopian tubes distended to a degree never seen in hydrosalpinx. Each tube was crammed with hydatid cysts. Much of the peritoneum of Douglas's pouch was resected with the tvimour; it was infested with minute hydatid cysts, but both ovaries were healthy. From the history we may assume that pelvic peritonitis developed shortly after marriage, that the tubes became sealed up, a hydrosalpinx developing on each side, and that finally each hydrosalpinx became infected with hydatids. It is instructive to note what was the effect of the very slow, steady pressure of the hydatids which gradually developed within the tubes. One tube measured nearly twenty, the other more than twenty-two inches, they ran a tortuous course, and their dilatations were enormous and very irregular. Such elongation and dilatation is never seen in the commoner forms of hydrosalpinx. The tumour, it must also be noted, escaped suppuration though united to intestine by very old adhesions. Tumours of the Tube.—Myoma of the Tube. —A true " fibroid " of the tube is of great rarity, although the tube is mainly made up of plain muscular fibres like the uterus where myoma is so common. Many alleged cases are doubtful. Thus Simpson's and Schwartz's were both pedunculated and very possibly developed from muscular tissue in the mesosalpinx independently of the tube. Several other cases where the tumour was sessile may have sprung from the same source. In other instances a uniform and extreme hypertrophy of the muscular coat, associated with chronic inflammation, has been questionably classed as " myoma." Two reliable authorities, Bland-Sutton and Jacobs of Brussels, have each removed a myomatous tumour clearly developed in the muscular coat of the tube about its middle third ; the tumoiir was in each case of about the size of an orange. Chiari's salpingitis isthmica nodosa, already noted, represents an inflammatory change on the muscular coat, not a myoma. Small lumps of muscular tissue containing blind glandular ducts have been detected in the same part of the tube and in the adjacent uterine cornu ("adeno-myoma " of von Recklinghausen). They are pathological curiosities, and their precise origin is uncertain ; von Recklinghausen traces them to the Wolfiian body, Kossmann to Miiller's duct. Cysts of the Tube.—Kossmann is of opinion that the minute thin-walled cysts so often seen between the folds of the mesosalpinx and some- times under the free border of the serous coat of the tube itself arise from Miillerian, that is to say, tubal elements. The little accessory tubes, which often spring from the surface of the mesosalpinx, sometimes bear similar cysts. Earlier writers attributed the minute cysts in the mesosalpinx to the Wolffian body. The well-known " hydatid of Morgagni," indisputably a tubal appendage, sometimes forms a cyst of an inch or so in diameter with a very long pedicle. Sanger removed two large masses of cysts containing fibro-myxomatous matter from the fimbriated extremity of a tube; each sprang from a long pedicle which was tied and divided, nothing more being removed. The patient, aged twenty-six, recovered and afterwards became pregnant. Primary Dermoid Tumoxir of the Tube.— Dermoid disease of the tube has been observed by Pozzi, who figures a case in the third edition of his Traite de gynecologie, but gives no clinical notes. The growth is represented as entirely within the tube, except that the tubal walls are perforated superiorly. Large hairs spread through the wall of the dermoid, projecting into the much-dilated canal of the tube. The tumour was made up of skin with hair, sebaceous and sweat glands and fat, but there was neither bone nor cartilage. The ovary is represented as free from disease and in normal anatomical relation to the tube, xis for Ritchie and Treub's cases, it is not clear that the new growth really originated in the tube. Lipoma of the Tube.—Parona once found a Fallopian tube buried in a fatty mass, nearly 3 oz. in weight, which opened up the mesosalpinx. It is not made evident that the tiimour began in the tube. Though adipose tissue, it must be I'emembered, is found under the mucosa in young subjects, a considerable amount of fat, visible to the naked eye, often grows between the layers of the mesosalpinx near the outer end of the tulie. It is from this fact that Parona's tumour very probably arose. Papilloma and Cancer of the Tube.—Primary papilloma and primary cancer of the Fallopian tube are closely allied. The former disease seems to be of inflammatory origin (" papillo- matous endosalpingitis" of Macrez). Nine or ten authentic cases have been collected. When the ostium of the papillomatous tube remains open, the secretion pouring out into the peritoneum may set up dropsy (author's case);