147 EPIDEMIOLOGY severely a contagious disease' is present in a community the less material will be left for the recurring explosions. But it deserves notice that for a series of years severe explosions are the rule, followed by another series in which they are much less marked. Compare, for example, the period 1838- 1866 (Chart II., diagram 1) with the succeeding period. These explosions, whatever may be their cause, are not, as a rvde, determined by a re- curring increase in the virulence of the con- tagium. Indeed, the case-mortality in epidemic years is often lower than in the years of mini- mum prevalence. In the years 1872 and 1894, for example, measles were epidemic in Hamburg, but the case-mortality in tlie former year was 2-74, and in the latter 34 per cent. These waves are local explosions for the most part, not brought about by increase of virulence. But every now and again in the case of measles and small-pox, and perhaps also in that of all con- tagious diseases, virulence waves intrude. Thus a severe epidemy of measles occurred in Ham- burg in 1892 ; the case-mortality reached 7'3 per cent. This was no local outbreak. Its impulse is to be traced in diagrams 1 and 2, Chart II., in London and New York, and it was felt at Paris, and doubtless in other widely distant places. The ej)idemy of small-pox in 1871 was sucli a virulence wave, which swept over the greater part of the world. Nothing is really known of tlie causation of these virulence waves, nor much of the frequency of their occurrence. The ordinary biennial wave of measles that appears in large towns is evidently connected in some way with the diminution of susceptible subjects in the intervening years, and the in- terval necessary for accunndating a fresh mass of material for a new explosion. The fact that the failure of the epidemic wave in one year is sufficient to alter the biennial rhythm is con- clusive on this point. Another proof is to be found in the occasional lengthening of the interval after an unusually high wave, as in the year 1839, and again in 1845 (diagram 1, Chart II.). But in what way does this thinning of the ranks of the susceptible necessitate a more or less definite interval to elapse before a new outburst can take place 1 In other words, why should these diseases proceed by way of successive explosions, and not occur continu- ously ? Why should the virus, which is never absent from a large town, not spread in tlie in- termediate years (.see Chart IV. p. 1-50) among those who had escaped in tlie previous epidemy and among those that are being constantly added by'the natural increase of tlie population, instead of waiting for an accumulation of sub- jects in order to clear them all off at one stroke? Ransom e, who has devoted much attention to this point, thinks that " all the facts would be accounted for if we suppose that these diseases can only become epidemic when the proximity between susceptil)le persons becomes sufiiciently close for the infection to pass freely from one to the other. When an epidemy has cleared away nearly all the susceptible, it is only when the meshes of the network of communication are again sufficiently close for it to include all the susceptible persons in one great haul that it can return." It cannot be doubted that the intervals between epidemics have something to do with the diminished numbers and density of the susceptible, but this "density" explanation is not without its difficulties. If a definite density of the susceptible were required before a disease can become epidemic, can we suppose that anything like the same densities will be attained in the same time in places where the outbreaks occur at the same intervals? If, as is generally believed, measles are only communic- able by a proximity so close as that afforded by personal intercourse—say a few feet or yards— the density of the susceptible can never be such as to enable the infection to pass from one to another. The fineness of the meshes of the net can only be relevant to the epidemic spread of the disease if it secures the inclusion of the susceptible automatically, so to speak, that is, by the infection passing from one to another, from point to point, apart from that accidental intercourse between the sick and the healthy which does not depend on given density. Per- haps if we knew more of the manner in which the contagion really spreads in epidemic times, some or all of these difficulties would disappear. We think it by no means improbable that the interval may have a relation to a temporary immunity conferred on a population generally —on those who have not been attacked, as well as those who have—during the previous out- break ; just as in the case of cholera a severe epidemy confers an immunity for three years on a community. IV. Seasonal Fluctuations.—"All diseases occur at all seasons of the year, but certain of them are more apt to occur and to be exacer- bated at certain seasons." This ajiliorism of Hippocrates applies especially to epidemic dis- orders. The seasonal prevalence of diseases due to non-obligatory pai'asites is determined, as a rule, by climatic conditions affecting their saprophytic growth. Apparent exceptions occur, and the season of greatest prevalence in some localities is not that in which the virus seems to have the best chance of multiplying outside man, but that in which it has the greatest facilities for diffusion. But peculiar local con- ditions may convert a summer or autumn disease into a winter or spring one by actually favouring the growth of its organism at these seasons. We have an instance of this in the case of enteric fever, which is least prevalent in Munich in October, the month when it attains its maximum in England and in most other countries, and