ENTERIC FEVER 120 logical); Parotid Gland, Disorders of {Paro- titis in Enteric Fever); Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications {Specific Fevers, Enteric); PuERPERiUM, Pathology {Septiccemia, Dia- gnosis) ; Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Anti- entei'ic Serum); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Acute Thyroiditis in Enteric Fever); Undulant Fever {Diagnosis). Enteritis. See Intestines, Diseases op {Enteritis) ; see also Gastro-Intestinal Dis- orders of Infancy {Inflammatory Diarrhoea); Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, General {Dia- gnosis) ; Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis from Gastro- Enteritis). EnterOCelGi—An intestinal hernia. See Groin, Diseases of ; Hernia {Structures, Con- tents) ; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor ( Vaginal Enterocele). EnterodeiSis.—Intestinal occlusion. EnterOCiysiS.—Intestinal irrigation by means of large enemata {q.v.), as given in cholera, for instance. EnterO-COiitiS. — Inflammatory diar- rhoea, or ileo-colitis. See Colon, Diseases op {Ulcerative Colitis); Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis). EnteroCOlOStomy.—The operation of anastomosing the ileum to the sigmoid flexure; it has been proposed in cases of obstinate con- stipation (!). EnterOCystOCele.—A hernia contain- ing intestine and urinary bladder. Enterocystoma.—A tumour of a persistent pai't of the omphalo-mesenteric duct. Entero-epi p 1 oce 1 e. SeeEnterepiplo- CELE ; Hernia {Structures, Contents). Entero-haemal Circulation.— The circulation between the blood and the ali- mentary canal, consisting in the pouring out of various secretions into the intestine and their partial re-absorption. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Fate of Digestive Secretions). Enterokinase.—A substance (zymin) in the intestinal secretion, which, acting on trypsinogen, converts it into active trypsin. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Panc7-eatic Secretion). EnterO-lithiasiS.—The formation of concretions {Enteroliths) within the lumen of the bowel. See Stools, Intestinal Sand. E n te ro m e n i a. —Vicarious menstruation (or xenomenia) from the intestines; a doubtful occurrence. EnteromyiasiS. — Intestinal disease caused by the larvae of flies. Enteropexy.—The operation of fixing the intestine (by stitches) to the abdominal wall to keep it in position. EnterOptOSiS. See also Chest, De- formities OF {Mechanical Causes, Enteroptosis); Kidney, Surgical Affections {Movable and Floating Kidney, Condition of Abdominal Organs); Liver, Diseases of (Hepatoptosis) ; Stomach, Surgical Affections {Gastroptosis). Syn.—Glenardh disease, Viscero2)tosis (Eccles), Splanchnoptosis (Stiller). Definition.—In the sense used by Glenard, enteroptosis implies downward displacement of the stomach, transverse colon, and generally of the right kidney, accompanied by digestive dis- turbances and often by neurasthenic symptoms. As employed by later writers, especially those of the German school, enteroptosis is rather ap- plied to displacements of at least two abdominal organs (Schwerdt), without any distinction as to them individually. Nor does it appear that they attach so much importance to the dyspeptic or the neurotic accompaniments as the followers of Glenard. Owing to the utter state of confusion into which the subject has drifted, and the conflict of ideas as to what really constitutes enteroptosis and what does not, any connected description of the matter is rendered hopeless and impossible. The confusion into which the subject has fallen is entirely due to the unscientific and illogical application of the term enteroptosis to a somewhat fantastic and arbitrary group of symptoms and signs raised by Glenard to the dignity of individuality, thus elevating them to the rank of a special disease, whereas these signs and symptoms may be occasioned by other com- binations of visceral displacement, or depend upon changes in position of one or two of the three organs included by Glenard, not neces- sarily of all. Literally implying a falling down of the bowel, the term should be aj)plied only to this. In default, however, of a more suitable name it will be convenient to consider it to mean the dis- placement downwards of any abdominal organ, associated with a similar descent of at least one other (Schwerdt), and accompanied by symp- toms of disturbed digestion, with or without neurotic conditions. The mere physical condition of ptosis of any abdominal viscus need not necessarily lead to functional error, indeed, in numbers of women visceral ptoses of greater or less degree lead to no ill result. It is only when descent of ab- dominal viscera causes or has been caused by pathological lesions, symptomatically expressed, that the expression enteroptosis or any of its component units become applicable. Thus the relationship between enteroptosis as a medical entity and the displacement downwards of the various abdominal organs individually