EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 202 pressed against the cornea, that they do not become everted. It may, however, be impossible to see the cornea in this way owing to its being rolled upwards. In such cases a general anses- thetic should be employed. In cases of purulent ophthalmia examination of the cornea is rendered diiiicult by the swelling of the lids. In infants the swelling, although great, is soft, and does not, as a rule, offer any serious difficulty, but in adults it inay be so hard and brawny that it is impossible to separate the lids till it has been reduced. Examination op the Cornea.—The chief methods available are—(a) Direct inspection ; (b) Focal (i.e. concentrated) illumination ; (c) Observation of images reflected from its surface. (a) Direct inspection will often render further examination unnecessary. If the cornea be bright, its surface smooth, if there be no haziness in any part, and its shape be normal, it is free from any pathological conditions. This examina- tion, however, will not exclude abnormalities in its curvature sufficient to interfere with vision by producing astigmatism. (See " Refraction.") The average transverse diameter of the cornea is 11 "6 mm. (Priestley Smith). The vertical meridian appears smaller because the scleral opacity encroaches on it. An abnormally small cornea probably indicates a predisposition to glaucoma. Very large comese are only met with in association with enlargement of the whole eyeball (buphthalmos); in such cases the anterior chamber is increased in depth, and the sclerotic round the cornea has a bluish colour. This same discoloration in adults is evidence of previous attacks of cyclitis, or inflammation of the ciliary body. An alteration of form, conspicuous in pro- nounced cases, but easily overlooked in the slighter degrees, is that known as "kerato-conus" or " conical cornea." In this condition the whole cornea becomes unduly prominent, but the central part is altered more than the periphery, so that the curve is no longer approximately spherical, but may [be described as forming a ■cone with a rounded summit. Viewed from the front, the sharp curvature of the central portion renders it bright and conspicuous as if there were a drop of water lying on it. Viewed from the side the conical shape is quite evident. In cases of long standing the central part may be cloudy. The slighter degrees can only be recognised by the irregularity of the shadow in the shadow- test, and by the distortion of reflected images,— Placido's disc showing this well. Impaired transparency of the cornea may be due to the scarring of former ulceration, to keratitis, or to infiltration connected with an existing ulcer. It is therefore a matter of im- portance to ascertain whether there is any breach of surface. Usually there is no difficulty in deciding this by focal illumination, but in cases of transparent ulcer, or recent abrasion, the lesion may be overlooked. In such cases the recent introduction of fluorescine has proved of great service. A small drop of this placed on the cornea in a few seconds stains it an emerald- green wherever the epithelium is absent. By its use it is also very easy to note alterations in the size or shape of an ulcer, and to tell when it has become covered by epithelium. (6) Focal Illumination.—The patient is seated in a darkened room, the light being placed about 20 inches to the side and slightly in front of the patient's head. The observer, by the aid of a lens of 2f-3 inches focus, held perpendicularly in the path of the rays and at its focal length from the eye, concentrates a cone of light on the cornea. By slight movements of the lens or patient's eye, the different areas of the cornea are illuminated as desired, the surrounding parts remaining in deep shadow. Sometimes it is advantageous to employ a second lens as a magnifying-glass to examine still more in detail the illuminated area. This method is of the very greatest value in the minute examination of corneal lesions, e.g. ulcers, and in demon- strating nebulse, foreign bodies, etc. It is also largely employed for the examination of the whole anterior segment of the eye, including the anterior chamber, iris, lens, and may even be utilised for the most anterior part of the vitreous. (c) By examining carefully the image of some external object of regular outline, e.g. the bars of a window frame, as seen reflected from the patient's cornea, we can see whether there is any distortion of outline produced, indicating some irregularity of corneal curvature. Placido's disc consists of a series of concentric black rings on a white card which is perforated at the centre. The observer, looking through this aperture at the image of the disc reflected from the patient's cornea, will observe any irregulari- ties of curvature in the concentric circles. In irregular astigmatism their contour will be irregularly altered, while in regular astigmatism the circles will assume an elliptical outline, the long axis corresponding to the meridian of least curvature. For the exact measurement of the corneal curvature, and especially for the determination of corneal astigmatism, the ophthalmometer is used. (See "Refraction.") The sensitiveness of the cornea may be im- paired. This may be ascertained by touching the surface gently with a thread. Anterior Chamber, Iris, and Pupil.—The depth of the anterior chamber will be best appreciated by the aid of focal illumination, the light being concentrated on the corneal margin. Swelling or advancement of the lens will make the anterior chamber shallow; the former con- dition is well exemplified by some cases of cataract before they are ripe, and the latter by