504 GOUT the excesses strain these powers beyond a cer- tain point, the corrective energies of nature fail, and the outward and visible evidences of the disease result. In such cases well-marked con- stitutional disturbance had existed without the in- dividual having any consciousness of its presence, which fact indicates that a decision as to the state of health of a typically gouty subject can- not be arrived at from the evidence of his own consciousness. There is also sufficient evidence to justify a limitation in the articles of diet rich in nucleins, e.g. tiiymus, liver, kidneys, but, as these form a very small part of ordinary feeding, they can, except in special cases, be overlooked. If these points are attended to, a further in- dication in treatment is at the same time ful- filled, i.e. the elimination of the uric acid. It is well known that defects in the renal functions play an important part in the disease, and, if the strain on the kidney is lessened through administration for a short or long period of a reduced nitrogenous dietary, these organs will be enabled to cope more successfully with the elimination of uric acid and other toxic sub- stances. This object will, of course, be more readily obtained if the assistance of the cor- related excretory organs, the skin and intestinal canal, is secured and maintained. Allusion has already been made to the older views on plethora, es])ecially that arising from excess of nutriment, so-called nutritive plethora, the treatment of which mainly resolved itself into a limitation of the amount of food con- sumed. But the older jshysicians also recog- nised an " excreraentitious plethora," iisually a sequel of the other, with resulting far-reaching injurious effects on all the organs and tissues of the body. This condition suggested to them the advisability of closer attention being directed to the excretory function of the skin by means of baths of various kinds. Since that time Balneology has developed extensively, and has rightly come to occupy a very important place in the therapeutics of the disease. The action of baths in genei'al on the heat-regulating func- tion, on local and general tissue metabolism, on the general circulation, and on the central nervous system, are elsewhere described {v. Balneology), and need not be considered in detfiil. It must suffice to indicate the very important part which the skin can play as an organ of excretion of nitrogenous waste products (urea). This fact, of which there is abundant clinical evidence, is one which is insufficiently appreciated in most text-books on physiology, and the practical deductions to be drawn from it are too much ignored by the practitioner. An interesting question relates to the subject of uric acidj solvents. If we can so influence the blood and tissue fluids as to increase the solu- bility of the uric acid compounds, and thus facilitate their elimination, it is obvious that this will be one of the outstanding indications in treatment. As on many other points, opinions vary both as to the theoretical and practical value of these substances, but it is on the whole doubtful, if by the administration of any alkaline salts, the remarkably stable blood and tissue fluids can be so influenced as to lead to their exercising a solvent action on the deposit. In the absence of further proof, it is probably safer to conclude that any beneficial action possessed by these substances is primarily due to their diuretic action. The same state- ment can be applied to tiie use of the various organic nitrogen - holding bases — piperazin, lysidin, urotropin, etc. A point of greater importance, and of even greater difficulty, is the influence of the pre- formed salts in the different articles of food on the solubilit}' of the uric acid. Here, again, we are on unknown ground, and if we are not in a position to speak definitely regarding the influence of the preformed salts of the animal and vegetable foods, still less are we able to speak of the action of the salts formed in the body from oxidation processes. The sulphur and phosphorus of the albuminous food-stufFs are oxidised into their respective acids; these cannot exist as such, and are immediately changed into various compounds; but the nature of these changes, either in healthy or deranged metabolism, is not determined. Simil- arly, while the organic acid salts present in vegetaljles are changed into alkaline carbonates, we do not know what influence they exert on uric acid compounds in the blood or tissues, and it is probably inadvisable to draw any con- clusions from the solvent power of these and other substances in vitro applicable to the state of affairs in the living body. We are on safer ground when we pass to consider the beneficial infltience of exercise on the gouty subject. Everything which favours the inner or tissue respiration in the muscular and other tissues directly or indirectly fulfils the preceding indications, and in this category work and physical exercises of different kinds take a first place. These exercises should pre- ferably be conducted in the open air, and should be of a kind adapted to the age and sex of the individual subject. Active walking, golfing, cycling, horse exercise, hill-climbing, and other seasonable exercises occupj' a foremost place in the list. With regard to the extent to which these are to be advocated no hard and fast line can be drawn; the habit of body of each in- dividual, and the state of the cardio-vascular system, must be carefully considered in each. Needless to say, the presence of organic disease in the kidneys, heart, or other organ will modify the extent to which these are to be indulged in. While it must not be forgotten that in a few cases active exercise seems to have a prejudicial influence in inducing an acute attack, this should