fiOUT 491 the dejjosits were very pronounced, and yet gave trouble mainly through their bulk. In other cases the deposits are scanty and the symptoms are severe. It has been suggested that these varieties depend on the fact that the amount of disturbance induced depends more on the site than on the extent of a deposit. Keeping these different factors in mind, it is obviously impossible to present anything like a complete picture of the chronic and irregular phases of the disease, and it must suffice to give merely a short outline of chronic gout, including the deforming and tophaceous variety with the associated cachexia, and thereafter an equally brief outline of the phenomena of irregular gout as seen in the various systems of the hodj. Chronic Deforming Gout.—Here the articular changes are very pronounced, and are usually most marked in the joints of the fingers, ankles, knees, and great toe, but they are by no means confined to these structures. There is also found uratic infiltration with degeneration in various fasciae, bursfe, and tendons in the neigh- bourhood of the affected joints, and indeed in not a few cases these sites are the primary ones. In a few instances the greatest de^josit may be in one or other of the important bursse in the region of a joint, and such cases may be less amenable to treatment than those in whicli there is a more diffuse articular change. The deformities induced are those due to the swelling of the joints, deflection of the fingers, hands, and toes, ankylosis and other local changes, and they closely simulate the appearances in rheumatoid arthritis. (See "X-Rays.") JVodi dir/itorum, the term applied to the knotty or knobby state of the terminal phalangeal joints by Heberden (Hel)erden's nodes), are frequently of a gouty nature. Chronic Tophaceous Gout is characterised by deposits in the subciitaneous tissues, notably of the ears, in the neighbourhood of joints, and in various bursse. These tophi may give way and exude a characteristic creamy fluid. They may be present in large size in the neighbourhood of a joint, which otherwise appears free from the disease and whose mobility is miimpaired. Gouty cachexia is the sequel of chronic gout in certain predisposed subjects, but the causes of that predisposition are not quite clear. It is seldom met with in the robust, plethoric subjects who present the classical pictures of tlie disease, and is more usually seen in cases where the disease develops early in subjects strongly predisposed to it. The symptoms of the cachexia are numei'ous and varied, but in the main are those of cachexia from any other cause. The ansemia and associated degenerative changes in the muscular and nervous tissues in turn react unfavourably on the gouty tendency. The functions of all the muscular, glandulai', and nervous organs are profoundly deteriorated, and the results in any given case vary according to the extent of the degenerative changes in one or other or all of these organs. The prognosis is bad when the cachexia is doubtful. Ikregular Gout—Goutiness The symptoms of irregular gout are manifold and varied, and are not infrequently most de- veloped in persons who have never been the subject of the acute phases of the disease, and in those who have no pronounced evidence of chronic gout. Are we justified in the diagnosis in these cases? Certainly. While we must avoid ascribing all diseases occurring in subjects with a hereditary history to a gouty origin, a careful study of the heredity, constitution, and clinical features in many cases will amply warrant the diagnosis. The views entertained by not a few writers that a diagnosis of gout is not possible in the absence of tophi or a history of previous acute attack are not to my mind tenable. But a careful discrimination must be exercised in this direction. To what are the symptoms of ii'regular gout due ? Can they all be explained by the view- that they are dependent on the local deposit of minute crystals in the affected parts, e.g. gastric mucous membrane, cerebral memliranes 1 Or are they dependent in whole or in part on the selec- tive action of a soluble toxic substance in the blood on a naturally weak spot ? A final answer cannot yet be made. The symptoms vary with the age and constitution of each subject, but in every case we may take it that the symptoms are more liable to develop in that system or tissue wliich happens to have, from natural or acquired defects, the weakest nutritional activity. [ Here again we must have regard to the influence of other hereditary strains in modifying the direction and severity of the gouty symptoms. The Nervous System We are only beginning to realise how often j gout acts on many organs and tissues, and how frequently inflammation is thus induced (Gowers and Taylor, 1899). This opinion well illustrates the importance of the association between gout and diseases of the nervous system, and at the same time it indicates the limited extent of our precise knowledge of the subject. The effects of gout are seen both on the higher and lower neurones. JVewitis is by no means infreipient, ] and is probably most encountered in the third and fourth decades of life, but it is probable that many cases of supposed neuralgia in young sub- jects are really minor forms of neuritis. Sir Willoughby Wade was of opinion that a neuritis of the nerves at the affected part was a feature of the acute attack, but I have never found the distinct linear tenderness described by him. Some time ago, while experimenting with elec- trical currents on the hand of a gouty friend, I was much interested to find that the cutaneous I sensibility in a finger whose joints were the seat