240 FACIAL SPASM cause and the longer the spasm has been in existence the more unsatisfactory is the outlook. Treatment. — When symptomatic of some organic disease treatment must, of course, be directed to the condition of which the facial spasm is a symptom. In the ordinary cases of the affection a diligent search must be made for any source of reflex irritation, and, if any such can be found, measures should be promptly taken to remove if possible, or failing this, to palliate it. Decayed teeth must be dealt with, errors of refraction corrected, and so forth. When there is reason to suspect cold as the caiise of the facial spasm the affected side of the face ought to be kept warm, in addition to which it is of advantage to bathe the side of the head and face frequently with hot water, and free diaphoresis may be induced with advantage at the outset of the treatment. In addition to the removal or palliation of any cause that can be detected, attention must be directed to the nervous system in the hope of finding some means of rendering the facial neurons less prone to independent discharge. One way of attempt- ing to effect this is by the administration of drugs that are known to have a sedative action on the nervous system, but though, probably, every drug of the kind has been tried, they are as a rule impotent, and no single drug can claim a greater measure of success than the possible cure of one or at most two cases. Morphia, either alone or in conjunctioir with atropine, has been more successful than any other drug, but the treatment has to be con- tinued so long that dangers of the morphia habit and its attendant miseries proves a strong deterrent to this mode of treatment. Conium and gelsemium have each been said to do good, but the bromides are practically of no value in the treatment of this affection. Another way in which the tendency to spontaneous discharge may be lessened is by attempting to improve the nutrition of the neurons in the hope of making them more stable. To this end various tonics have been employed, such as arsenic, zinc, strychnia, silver, iron, and quinine; but the results have been practically no more encouraging than with the sedative line of drug treatment. In many cases the objects of the tonic line of treatment are best attained by isolating the patient, insist- ing on absolute physical and as much mental rest as possible, liberal feeding, and the employ- ment of general massage and faradism. With improvement of general nutrition it may be hoped that the nutrition of the neurons will also be favourably influenced, and that those of the facial nerve will naturally share in these benefits. Where depressing emotions appear responsible for the generation of the spasm every effort should be made to lessen their influence, and any general impairment of the patient's health must be combated. Good from electrical treatment directed to the facial nerves and muscles can only be ex- pected to arise when galvanism is employed, and, moreover, only the " stabile" method of applying the current is admissible. A gentle current of not more than 2 milliamperes ought to be vised, and care should be taken to intro- duce the current slowly and to shut it off as gradually. Opinions differ as to the best positions for the electrodes, but the practice of the writer is to place the anode over the trunk of the nerve in front of the ear or on its branches individually, and to place the cathode at some indifferent point, as for instance the back of the neck, while towards the end of the application a pole may be placed on each mastoid for a few minutes. Facial massage may be advantageoiisly combined with the electrical treatment in some cases. Blisters and other forms of counter-irritation behind the ear, while producing no permanent good, seem to be capable of diminishing the spasm for a time, and benefit has been observed after counter - irritation to the cervical spine. When there are tender points in the distrilnition of the fifth cranial nerve and pressure directed to these spots arrests the spasm, some recom- mend the application of blisters or the thermo- cautery to these points, while Sir William Gowers advises the hypodermic injection of cocaine at the tender spots. Dr. Weir Mitchell recommends freezing of the cheek for a few minutes by a spray every day or every other day. Stretching the facial nerve can claim no more success than other modes of treatment that have been tried in this affection, for unless the stretching be sufficiently vigorous the spasm is not influenced, and when the stretching is vigorous paralysis of the facial muscles must of necessity result. The prospects of recovery from the paralysis are good, but with return of power, in cases where the nerve has been tem- porarily put out of action, the spasm reappears. In some cases it may be less severe than before the operation, but in others it is as severe as ever. The operation of stretching should be supplemented by the administration of sedatives for some months in the hope that the combined treatment may be more effective than either is when employed alone. Facies.—The appearance of the face (or of the whole body) as indicative of disease or health; thus, the fades hippocratica is the physiognomical appearance of impending death (" his nose was as sharp as a pen," Shakespeare, Henry V., Act ii. sc. iii.); the fades ovariana is the peculiar appearance of the face in women suffering from ovarian tumours ; and the fades choleritica is that seen in cholera, etc. See Appendix Vermiformis, Appendicitis {Symp- toms); Gastro-Intestinal Disorders of Infancy