FRACTURES 352 much hair upon their chests, and it is badly borne by ladies with deUcate skins. It is often convenient, therefore, to employ one of the Fig. 4.—Diagram to illustrate tliat the upper arm must he placed well across the chest when there is much inward displacement of the outer end of a broken collar-bone. (Chiene and Dobie.) two following methods :—(1) Lay the tail of a bandage on the hand (Fig. 6), carry it down the back of the forearm, round the elbow, up the upper arm to the tip of the acromion (it is too far forward in the diagram), across the back to the opposite axilla, across the forearm, round the elbow again, up the upper arm, then round below the deltoid and across the back to the opposite shoulder, repeating these turns as often as may be necessary. Last of all, fix the arm to the side by a few circular turns of the bandage. A layer of boracic lint or cotton wool dusted over with zinc oxide is to be placed between the arm and the trunk to prevent skin touching skin. (2) The " first-aid " method is often serviceable (Fig. 7). A square yard of linen is cut diagonally to make two triangular band- ages, and a small pad of cotton wool dusted over with starch powder or oxide of zinc is placed in the axilla. One of the triangu- lar bandages is then placed beneath the arm of the injured side in such a manner that the point of the triangle lies behind and on a level with the elbow, the arm being bent and the tips of the fingers resting upon the opposite arm. The upper end of the long side of the triangular bandage lies upon the sound shoulder, and the lower end is brought upwards over the injured arm and beneath the injured armpit until it can be tied to the upper end on Fig. 5.—Diagram to show that the upper ai m must be placed as horizontal as possible when there is much forward dis- placement of the outer end of a broken collar-bone. (Chiene and Dobie.) the sound shoulder. The second bandage is then folded " shawl-wise " to make a narrow bandage, which is carried round the body to keep the Fig. 6. -Bandage for a broken collar-bone when no strapping is used. injured arm at rest. For children it is often suffi- cient to put a sling round the wrist and to dress the patientwiththeinjuredarra insidethe clothes. In the case of a lady, where it is important to obtain union with the least possible deformity, the patient must be content to remain in bed, flat upon her back, and with only a very narrow pillow under her head, the arm being fixed in a sling or by a plaster of Paris dressing. But even then the tilting of the scapula directs the outer end of the clavicle downwards, and some- what rotates it upon its own axis, so that it is almost impossible to keep the ends of an oblique fracture of the shaft of the clavicle in perfect apposition. A fortnight in children and three weeks in adults is generally sufficient to ensure good bony union in simple cases of broken collar-bone, but this time is insufficient to allow of perfect consolidation, and a man who has to do manual labour should not be allowed to resume work for five weeks. Fig. 7.-The ' first aid " bandage for a broken collar-bone. (Manual for the R.A.M.C.) Multiple fractures, double fractures, and com- plicated fractures of the clavicle, inasmuch as they are always produced by greater violence.