270 FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF sensibility from the fifth, there may be uni- lateral anesthesia, sometimes complete, but not infrequently inexplicably limited to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. There are also marked trophic and vaso-motor disturbances due to affections of the sensory fibres of the trigeminus, some of which have given rise to much discussion. Not infrequently a herpetic eruption appears along the line of the supraorbital branch, probably due to a neuritis, and which may in exceptional cases be of great severity, causing intense pain and associated with iritis even and sometimes cor- neal ulceration. Perhaps an even commoner herpetic eruption found in the domain of the fifth nerve is that which occurs in the lips, herpes labialis, and which is so often associated with ordinary coryza and lobar pneumonia. Trophic phenomena vary according as the lesion is an irritative or destructive one, and the herpetic eruption as above described is a good example of the former. Diminution of nasal and lachrj^mal secretions has been already referred to, and along with the salivary such diminution is the result of a destructive lesion, while a temporary excessive flow may follow an irritative. It is stated that the aifected side of the face is often paler owing to diminished vascularity, but the writer has never observed this phenomenon. Progressive neuro-paralytic ophthalmia, or a condition beginning with dryness of the cornea, then opacity, and later ulceration which may eventually cause perforation and lead to panoph- thalmitis, is the most disputed phenomenon met with in some affections of the first branch of the trigeminal nerve. It was thought at one time (Majendie) that section of the nerve would result in such trophic disturbance, but experimental evidence, now amply supported by undoubted clinical data, demonstrates that it is the result of irritation and not destruction of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, or pos- sibly in some cases irritation of the Gasserian ganglion. It might be supposed that an in- sensitive cornea should be readily injured by foreign bodies, and aided by the diminished flow of the lachrymal secretion, but this is not demonstrated by clinical facts. Still, when as already mentioned the mucous membrane of the affected cheek is bitten accidentally, healing is slow and ulceration is not uncommon, it does seem as if the fifth was a trophic nerve. Meissner has suggested that the keratitis is due to section or possibly irritation of a definite bundle of trophic fibres which are situated near the inner side of the Gasserian ganglion, and then pass into the ophthalmic division of the fifth; but on the other hand, the numerous successful operations for relief of trigeminal neuralgia by removal of the Gasserian ganglion without the production of any progressive keratitis, and the experiments of Ferrier and Turner on inonkeys, confute any such state- ment. The neuro-paralytic keratitis is only due to irritation, and probably only when the irritant is of a very virulent nature, such as might be produced in a septic wound expos- ing the nerve or ganglion, or where a tumour presses on the nerve. If this is true the con- dition must be the result of a neuritis (see "Cornea "). The Pbognosis depends entirely on the nature of each case. It has been impossible to describe separately lesions which are purely irritative and those which are destructive. Irritative phenomena are often succeeded by those which are destructive or paralytic, and the evidence of complete destruction of a branch or of the whole nerve is always ominous. Where the motor fibres are affected incomplete reaction of degeneration, and specially the continuance of reaction with the faradic current, are favour- able signs. Diagnosis. — The diagnosis of peripheral lesions which give definite irritative or paralytic phenomena is easy, and a knowledge of the course and functions of each of the three branches enables us to localise the position, and to guess at the nature of the disease. Anajs- thesia limited to the area supplied by the first division, and especially if there coexists uni- lateral ocular paralysis, suggests a lesion either at the sphenoidal fissure or in the orbit. Anaesthesia of the area supplied by the second division suggests a lesion at the spheno-maxillary fissure, or in the superior maxillary bone. A complete lesion of the third division rarely occurs alone. The second and third divisions may be affected without the first in disease at the spheno- maxillary fissure or in the sphenoid bone. Com- plete anaesthesia of all the areas supplied by the three divisions of the trigeminus, and without the motor root being implicated, would point to a lesion of the sensory root between the Gasserian ganglion and the pons, or possibly a very localised pontine lesion, supposing that there were no impairment of sensory or motor function in the limbs. The motor root is closely related to the sensory, so that it must be ad- mitted that a lesion of the Gasserian ganglion, or of the sensory root between the ganglion and the pons, could hardly fail to implicate the motor fibres. Passing backwards to the pons, the sixth nerve emerges at no great distance from the fifth, and complete paralysis of the two nerves definitely locates the lesion at the pons. Where the fifth is paralysed on one side, and the arm and leg on the opposite side, the lesion is pontine and below the decussation of the fibres of the fifth, whereas if trigeminal anaes- thesia occurs on the same side as anaesthesia of the limbs, the lesion may be in the upper part of the pons, the crura cerebri, or posterior part of the posterior limb of the internal capsule.