424 GENERAL PARALYSIS George t, to describe the condition under the name of " chronic muscular paralysis," Delaye, under that of " incomplete general paralysis," and Calmeil, under that of " paralysis observed in the insane." Up to this time the affection was regarded as a special form of paralysis complicating an already existing mental disease. Bayle (1822) formulated a theory that the condition was not a mere complication of in- sanity, but a true morbid entity. He insisted on the existence of arachnitis or chronic men- ingitis as its predominant lesion, ambitious delusions as its necessary symptoms, and com- pleted the picture by a description of its various stages of development. Parchappe (1838) followed the lead and strove to prove that the affection was a special form of insanity. In 1846, however, there was a slight reaction, and Requin, MM. Sandras, Lunier, and Baillarger endeavoured to restrict this view. They recognised two forms, both progressive— the one with mental perversions, the other without. In 1858 a long discussion ensued between the partisans and opponents of Bayle's views, and the notion of the disease being a morbid entity was accepted. Since then, how- ever, its anatomico-pathological features have been questioned, and an enormous mass of etiological and clinical data have gradually accumulated, with the result that the unitary theory is no longer able to hold its ground. Ball described it "as a genus comprising many species," and at the present time many recognise that it is not a single malady, but a group of more or less distinct diseases, varying according to their causes or their lesions. Even the most ardent of the advocates of the entity theory have in their descriptions of the disease included so many factors of cai;sation, so varied symptoms, and so many different types of disease, that the olla podrida of general par- alysis is in excess of that of any other disease. The writer has pointed out {Journ. of Mental Science, p. 305, 1896) that before we can decide the question of the existence of true general paralysis, we have to differentiate between its group of symptoms and those of progressive partial paralysis. " From a pathological stand- point general paralysis, as we at present know it, seems to include every known cerebral degeneration as a possible adjunct of its patho- logy, i.e. it includes many affections which often, occurring independently, are in reality special paralyses. From the physical side we have to consider two broad types of disorder, viz. paralyses which are progressive and wide- spread, and paralyses which tend to progress, but which nevertheless remain, broadly speak- ing, only partial." From the mental side we have similar difficulties, inasmuch as the abnormal mental manifestations range through every grade of every faculty, thereby rendering a concise, comprehensive, or complete description impossible. The various new clinical facts, such as the remissions and the recognition of latent paralyses, syphilitic, saturnine, alcoholic, and paralytic insanities, have gradually over- thrown the entity theory, which includes but fails to explain them. Were we to exclude all those types which simulate progressive general paralysis (pseudo forms), but which do not fulfil the role laid down in most text-books, general paralysis itself—as a distinct disease— would fade into insignificance, or even cease to exist. Until, however, we have carefully differ- entiated the innumerable factors included in what is at present known as "general para- lysis," it is convenient to retain the term, and to use it in describing a paralytic dementia consisting essentially of dementia combined with progressive paralj^sis. Causation.—General paralysis of the insane affects most commonly men of middle age whose nervous systems have been unduly ex- ercised in the struggles and competitions of life, and in most cases the disease is further determined by vicious modes of life, errors of diet, injudicious use of stimulants, undue ex- ercise of sexual functions, and neglect of the restorative power of sleep. It is comparatively rare in a purely agricultiiral population, but among those who dwell in cities and are subject to stress and strain it is very common. It is in the great centres of population, where the people are too thick on the ground, that the constant struggle for survival reacts most upon the nervous systems of a nervous age. It is among the full-bodied, vigorous, and active that the disease finds its abode, and it is the inex- tinguishable thirst for warm, vital human life, the preference for lit streets and the restless phantasmagoria of the city, that attracts men burning with the fires of a full life. The craving for sensations and satisfactions of many- sided life has its tragic side, and in endeavouring to devour the world men but consume them- selves in the process. In brief, general para- lysis is the outcome of stress and strain, alcohol and syphilis, all of which are met in the desire for keen, quick, ample life. In every sense it is the mind which is the standard of the man, and nothing succeeds like alcohol and syphilis in effacing the rational and moral faculties of even the noblest and richest. It is comparatively seldom that alcohol alone is attributed as the cause of general paralysis, but intemperance does not necessarily mean only obvious and palpable drunkenness. From the very moment in which alcohol has disturbed the healthy exercise of the mental faculties, or has impaired the moral sense by unduly ex- citing the animal passions, or has in any way unfitted a person from discharging his duties in the proper struggle for survival, from that moment has there been guilt of intemperance. A nation must be depraved and wretched in