ECZEMA 39 Ears. — Type 1. Acute inflammation witli (jreat swellinfi and serous discharge.—Eczema of the ears is liable to sudden acute exacerbations, in which the parts become enormously swollen, red, hot, and weeping. In this condition oint- ments must never be ajiplied to the ears. The continuous application of muslin compresses wet with a solution of silver nitrate (gr. ii. to the Sj.), or of alum and acetate of lead, has the desired effect of reducing the swelling, of lessening tlie hyperajmia, and of arresting the discharge. After a few days, when the ears have nearly assumed their normal size, gentle stimulation may be employed in the form of a liniment composed of equal parts of lime water and olive oil with a little sulphur (gr. v.) and subchloride of mercury (gr. v.). Eczema of the ears is often associated with inflammatory seborrhoea of the meatTis. It is essential to a permanent cure that this should be treated. If the surface of the meatus is soft and oedematous an astringent lotion is indicated, and its use may be followed by a sulphur-resorcine ointment smeared on a plug of cotton-wool, and inserted in the meatus. This should be renewed every six hours. Accumulation of wax or of discharge should be syringed away, after softening, with a solution of borax in water. If there is daily discharge, especially if of fa^tid odoiir or streaked with blood, the middle ear is probably involved. Eczema of the ears is usually accompanied by seborrhoea of the scalp, and this must be treated according to the directions given above (see Scalp, Type 1). Type 2. The parts behind the ears are red aiid H.ssured, and covered ivith greasy scales and sca.bs. —This is generally a part of mycosiform (sebor- rhceic) eczema of the scalp and other parts of the body. Ointments are borne well. Porous ointments or pastes are better than simple fatty ones. If the surface is moist, begin with Lassar's paste with 1 or 2 per cent salicylic acid, when the siu'faee is dry and scaly, a tar- zinc-sulphiu- ointment answers admirably. The proportion of sulphur and tar must vary accord- ing to the degree of stimulation required. Ty2:ie 3. In scrofulous children a very rebellious type of eczema is met with behind the ears ; the parts are red, rough, scaly, and indurated, the affected area being limited by a sharp margin. It may resist all the usually successful remedies. Such cases may with advantage be treated with Unna's mercury - carbolic acid plaster muslin (No. 88). One ajiplication eacli day is suthcient. Neck.— In well-marked cases of seborrhoea of the scalp the nape seldom fails to show signs of hyperiT3mia. It may be nothing more than a pink coloration, but in many cases it becomes the seat of a very obstinate chronic eczema. Strong stimulating remedies are required here. Coal-tar is to be especially recommended, and may with advantage be dissolved in spirits of wine with the addition of a little ether. The erythematous collar which forms around the neck is commonly met with in the mycosiform eczemas which descend from the scalp ; it is important, therefore, in those cases always to examine the scalp. A lichenoid form of eczema develops in some cases on the shoulders of men. Very powerful local stimulants are necessary to cure it; and care must be taken to remove the pressure of the liraces. Trunk. — This is usually the seat of dry mycosiform eczemas. Type 1. The chest and back are covered v>ith a, dry, patchy eczema, approaching clinically to the type of psoriasis.—In seeking to distinguish this psoriatiform type of mycosiform eczema from typical psoriasis it is necessary to bear in mind that the two diseases may occur simul- taneously in the same jserson, and that in some cases the inflammation may partake partly of the character of psoriasis and partly of that of a dry seborrhoeic eczema. In psoriasis the silvery appearance of the scales seated on a dry hypergemic base, and their main distrilnition on the tips of the elbows, the fronts of the knees, the extensor surfaces and scalp, together with the chronicity and periodicity of the eruption, serve as a rule to distinguish the disease from eczema. If any further doubt remains the examination of the scalp usually settles the difficulty ; for psoriasis develops in this situation in island-like patches, and does not lead to the death of the hair as seborrhooic eczema capitis almost invariably does. The treatment is practically the same as for psoriasis. Sulphur and tar must be pushed boldly (3j. to 5ij- to the 5].); and if these are too weak, chrysarobin (gr. XX. to XXX.) may be relied upon to remove the eruption. This form of eczema is not in- compatible with the daily bath. There is no need to specially diet the patient. Internal treatment is not required so far as concerns the eczema. Type 2. Tlie surface is very red, and actually moist in certain places; other 2Mrts are occupied by numerous briijht red p>apules; there is great vaso-motor irritability, a7id the whole inflamma- tory pirocess is spreading.—If there is no renal or cardiac disease, and no arterial degeneration, and the patient is not too debilitated, a full- length warm bran-bath may be given. The temperature should not exceed 100°. Circum- stances must determine the duration of the bath; it may vary from quarter of an hoiu- to an hour or even longer. A single bath may suffice ; for all that is required of this water treatment is to relax the tissues, to aid the j removal of the discharge, and to equalise the cutaneous circulation. If this is not attained ! the first day, the bath n^ust be repeated the following night. After the bath the body nnist j be carefully dried, and at once anointed with I a cooling and porous ointment. Cold cream