57 ELECTRICITY value in any particular case. The Lattery, if not in constant use, should be carefully tested first, and a current measurer always used when possible. Now that the constant current is being largely used for electric lighting in houses, the chief source of error due to failure of the battery will be eliminated by its use for medical ti-eat- ment. The chief use of electricity in diagnosis and in prognosis depends on the fact that when muscles are separated from their trophic centre by a lesion of the motor-cell or nerve-fibre, a peculiar chemical change takes place in the muscle substance owing to which its reactions to the faradic and galvanic currents become altered, and the so-called " reaction of degenera- tion " is found, which varies in degree according to the severity and acuteness of the lesion. By familiarity with the varying phases of this reaction of degeneration, a surprisingly accurate prognosis may often be given as to the recovery or hopeless paralysis in a given case. By its means we are able to distinguish lesions of nerves from divided tendons in cases of wounds of the limbs, functional paralysis from cases of nerve injury or 2:)oliomy- elitis, and to give a fairly accurate forecast as to when recovery, if any, is to be expected. Since it is only when the lower motor segment, nerve-cell, or fibre is in- jured or diseased that there is any alteration in the electrical reactions, no help is afforded l)y this means in distinguishing a functional hemiplegia from that caused by an organic brain lesion, or an hysterical palsy of the legs from the spastic paraplegia due to a transverse myelitis or other organic cord lesion. For treat- ment, neuralgias, such as sciatica and lumbago, may often be re- lieved at once by the constant current, and the most obstinate sciaticas are almost invariably improved by persisting in the treatment, even when accompanied by muscular wasting. Choice of the liest form of current for treatment of a given case usually lies between faradism and galvanism, and a usually accepted rule for the treatment of muscles is to use the current to which they react best. For cutaneous ett'ects faradism is the more useful. Putting the difl^er- encc between the two currents in another way, we may say that galvanism is indicated when quantity of current is required to produce ciiemical effects, as in electrolysis, or in the direct stimulation of wasting muscle, whereas faradism has more effect in nerve stimulation and in overcoming the resistance of the skin, owing to its much higher voltage than medical galvanic currents. The forms of electricity in use may be divided into five classes :— (1) Static or frictional electricity. (2) High frequency currents, or the oscillatory discharge. (3) Magneto-electricity, or the interrupted current of an induction coil. (4) Alternating and sinusoidal currents. (5) Galvanism, the continuous battery or voltaic current. Each of these forms of electrical energy are used in medicine in appropriate cases. Static electricity, often known as franklinisa- tion. This is obtained from the " influence" machine of Wimshurst. Really efficient machines must have large plates, 24 to 30 inches in diameter, and not less than four pairs, more plates giving a proportionately larger amplitude of current, with thicker sparks, while the length of spark depends on the diameter of the plate. These machines may 1I_ rr^nl£-i3, Uj^r SroncA riffacial 11. corrzs- supcrciL 7S. orbic. p&lp2br. M. rygotnatici !£. orbjcuj. orl3 | iridtlle branch q^'j'acial M. iraflseter M. lovntor menti, M. quailr. mCDtt il. triang. menti' IJirpo^toiMl n. Loicer bmnch of Jaded HyoM mnsclea | JL omoliyoldeTis A nt. thoradi n. (iLpectoraL) Eeglon of central conTolatlona Xtegion 01' 3rd frontAl conr. and (gland or Bell (centre for speech) M, tanrxjralla fiidajn. (tnml) Pott, auriaiJar n, •fidjk trarcli offuial Lctcrr brrtneJi fiffaclnl M. Fplenioa SI stcrnoclddo- mastoidetu SpfnsI a£aizorti s. M. levator anffull BCspaJ. M. CQCollaris DcnialU tcapuke LonS Ifioracie n. ( if. terrat, e.nt, tut;.) rhrenicn. S'liirailnxieulrrrpoint. BrachialpUxut, (Eib'B po(ot. M. .k'ltold^ tnccp3, brochlaiis intcm. and EUpln. long ) Fio. 1. also be used to excite a Crookes tube for X-ray work, or, with Leyden jars and properly insulated induction coils, to jjroduce high frequency currents. In treatment, the length of sparks used is regulated by the distance between the discharging knobs, and sparks may be applied to the bare skin, or the electrode rubbed over woollen or flannel clothing. Such treatment is often of great service in dissipating functional symptoms, pains, and hemiana;sthesia. No exact physiological data have yet been brought forward to prove its alleged effect on metabolism, an effect scarcely to be exjjected from the fractional ampereage of the current. With Leyden jars the shocks become more severe, and a modified form of treatment is Morton's " static induced current,"' in which the electrodes