278 FILAEIASIS up by the mosquito many die and are digested or expelled in the faeces. Lewis (1878), who confirmed Hanson's observations, followed the de- velopment in the thoracic and abdominal tissues of the insect, but he did not follow the development as far as Hanson's latest stage. Sonsino subse- quently (1884) observed the development in Culex pipiens (?) in Cairo, the parasite attaining the large form observed by Hanson. He found that fleas and bugs did not serve as intermediary hosts. It having been proved that various species of mosquito can be kept alive for a considerably longer period than that mentioned above, it seemed necessary to try and follow the development, if possible, still further. Bancroft (1899) of Deception Bay, Queensland, the son of the discoverer of F. Bancrofti, reports that he has followed out the development of the filaria in mosquitoes. He was able to keep Culex ciliaris alive for two months by feeding them on bananas after they had sucked filarial blood. In his experiments, the development took place more slowly than with Hanson, the last stage being only reached on the 16-17th day, and in " cold" weather on the 28-35th day. Though he does not give the temperature at which the mosquitoes were kept, it seems probable to the writer that it was owing to the low temperature that the development took place so slowly. The unimpregnated mosquito lived longest, the impregnated lived 2-3 weeks. Bancroft states that the embryos wander into the body of the insect, chiefly into the thoracic muscles, immediately after they have been sucked up in the blood. Some embryos remain behind, lose their sheath, become transversely striated, and show other signs which he refers to osmosis and the effects of digestion through the insect's secretions. We have seen that Hanson de- scribed these as developmental forms. All the filariated mosquitoes (20) examined after 16-60 days contained filarife, the number of worms present being 3-25. The insects were apparently uninjured through the filarife. On tearing open the body of such insects under water the filarise were liberated. They wriggled about actively but did not move—after 3-4 hours they had died. In mosquitoes that had died a natural death the filarise were found dead after 24 hours. He never observed that the filariae escaped from the insect's body. It seems probable from this that infection may occur (as is the case with certain other parasites) through the whole infected insect being swallowed. Bancroft quotes authority for the statement that C. ciliaris appears to have been introduced into Australia, and writes : " It will not go wild, but always frequents habitations, breeding in receptacles holding water in and about the house." Working with other species of mosquito, Bancroft found that the parasites did not grow in C. notoscriptus (Skuse), nor in C. annulirostris (Skuse). In the first species none left the stomach, in the second a few wandered out, but died, and were absorbed after being two days in the muscles. C. hispndosus (Skuse) and C. vigilax (Skuse) lived about seven days in con- finement, and contained no filarise after that time. C. nigrothorax (Hacquart), C. procax (Skuse) and Anopiheles musiviis (Skuse) only remained alive three days, the filarise being observed to wander into the thoracic muscles of the last-named species. In a footnote he advances the unlikely hypothesis that infection might take place when the insect containing the large developed forms is sucking blood, the warm blood entering its body, stimulating the worm, which bores its way into the oesophagus of the insect, and passes out through the proboscis into the warm-blooded host. Henry (1896) found the embryos lived 3-4 days in blood ingested by leeches, whilst they remained alive for ten days in blood kept in a cold room. They were not killed by exposure to a temperature of 0° C. for several days. Manson states that the throwing-off' of the enveloping membrane may be observed on the slide by chilling it for 6-8 hours in a refrigerator and then warming up the slide. Periodicity.—Hanson (1881) and afterwards Hackenzie, and Hyers in the same year, foimd that the filarial embryos appeared and dis- appeared periodically from the blood. Han- son " watched it preserve its rhythm for a month on end," that is, the filarise appeared towards evening, increased in numbers during the night, and decreased in the morning. Hackenzie, who studied a case in London, found that if the filarial patient was kept up all night and allowed to sleep during the day the filarial periodicity above referred to was reversed, that is, the parasites appeared in the blood during the day and disappeared at night. Hyers states that the embryos in the blood are very active in the earlier part of the night, and that they then grow torpid and feeble, being shrivelled and straightened out when disappearing. Hanson denies the accuracy of this statement. He thought that new embryos were produced by the parent worm at regular intervals, and that they die off in the blood. The fact has, however, been established by Hanson that the embryos are given oft' constantly into the lymph-stream. In a post-mortem examination made on a filarial patient who had committed suicide by means of prussic acid at 8 a.m., it was found that the lungs contained huge numbers of filarife, whilst there were fewer in the carotids and heart- muscle. There were relatively very few else- where, and they were almost completely absent from the spleen, liver, and bone-marrow. This certainly suggests the possibility of their periodically finding a resting-place in certain parts of the body (Hanson 1899). The latter author (1883) considers that "filarial periodicity is an adaptation of the habits of the filaria to