78 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN was made up of a mass of fibrin. It may be supposed, therefore, that the ovum, after sink- ing down into the decidua vera, begins to exca- vate laterally as well as deeply ; and so it comes about that the overhanging rim of the mucosa (the vera) forms the refiexa, while the opening made by the ovum is plugged with a coagulum of fibrin. In Leopold's earliest specimen {Uterus mid Kind, Leipzig, 1897), the age of which may be stated as the end of the first week, the reflexa is seen surrounding the ovum entirely, but it is some of which communicate with lacuna; in the tissue surrounding the ovum (the trophoblast). In the spongy layer are small arteries. Large polymorphic cells are found in the compact portion, possibly decidual and maternal in nature, possibly also trophoblastic and foetal. There is a loosening of epithelium going on in the glands of the serotina. In Leopold's speci- men the serotina immediately below the ovum has half the thickness of the mucous membrane in its near neighbourhood; the surface capil- Fio. 3.—Section through Peters' early ovum, lying imbedded in the uterine mucosa. K.A., the embryo with amniotic sac and umbilical vesicle; C.E., uterine epithelium; fop., decidua reflexa (capsularis); Tr., trophoblast; Ca., maternal capillaries; Dr., glands ; BLt., blood-pools ; Corny., compact layer of decidua ; M., mesoderm ; G.P., spongy tissue. (After Peters.) thin and fibrinous in its polar portion, and the outer surface of the ovum is intimately attached to it (Fig. 5). The diiTerentiation of the mucosa forming the decidua vera into a compact (surface) and a spongy (deeper) layer is quite evident at this age; in the reflexa near its base are some glands lined with cubical epithelium, in the inter- glandular tissue are some large deeply-stained cells (maternal or foetal ?), and there is no epithelium on the inner aspect of this reflexa. The mucous membrane to which the ovum is moored or anchored is the serotina, now often called the decidua basalis or placental decidua. It consists, even at the age of Peters' specimen, of a superficial compact layer and a deeper spongy one. In the former part are signs of oedema with dilated capillaries and blood spaces, laries open into the spaces (intervillous) between the processes of the trophoblast, so that even at this early date maternal blood bathes the outer aspect of the ovum. In this manner, therefore, or in a manner somewhat like it (for it is unwise to draw deduc- tions hastily from the interpretation of so few specimens), the fertilised human ovum becomes anchored to the uterine wall. The term anchorage, however, hardly meets the descriptive require- ments of the case, when we think of the ovum sur- rounded as it is on all sides by maternal decidual tissues ; it will be more correct to speak of it as planted in or imbedded in the uterine mucous membrane. Let us now construct our mental picture of the ovum itself, as it lies thus imbedded at the