EXPECTORATION 197 involving the lung, portions of cyst - wall, 8colices, or booklets may be expectorated. Tricbomonades bave been found in the sputum of gangrene, and the amoeba coll in the pus from an hepatic abscess. When the presence of the amoeba is suspected the sputum should be examined on a warm stage as soon after expec- toration as possible, when the motility of the organism will serve to distinguish it. In the resting condition it is a pale greenish, highly refractile structure, whose average diameter is from 12 to 26 ^j.. The body consists of a clear, homogeneous ectoplasm, and a darker, granular entoplasm. There is an eccentrically placed nucleus, for whose detection, however, staining is required. By fixing films in alcohol and staining with methylene blue the entoplasm is deeply stained, while the ectoplasm remains almost colourless. The best picture of the nucleus is given by fixing in Fleming's solution and staining with saftranin and acid fuchsin (Davidson). Expert.—An individual who has made a special study of any subject, who has had s]3eeial experience therein, and who is, therefore, qualified to give valuable evidence thereupon ; as a witness, an expert may speak on matters of opinion. See Medicine, Forensic. Expircltion. See Physiology, Respira- tion (JloveDients in Exjyiration); Pulse {Fre- quency) ; Respiration {F]iijx!olo<i)j, Fxpiration). Exploratory Operations. — Ex- ploratory operations are those usually carried out, in the first place, for diagnosis, but, secondarily, for treatment, if the conditions foimd be such as to warrant or justify opera- tive interference; they usually take the form of opening into a body-cavity by incision or asjiiration, such as the alxlomen, thorax, cranium, or spinal canal. Explosives. See Trades, Dangerous. Exposure, Death from. See Medi CINE, Forensic (Death from Cold and Exposure). ExpreSSiO Foetus.—Delivery of the cliild liy compressing and rubbing the uterus tin-ougli the abdominal walls of the mother. Expression. See Physiognomy and Expression. Exstrophy.—The exposure of the interior of such a viscus as the bladder (vesical exstrophy or ectopia vesicre) by defect of its anterior wall and of the anterior abdominal wall; extrover- sion or inversion. See Bladder {Maiformat ions); Ectopia : Teratology. Extension. See Fractures {Femur, Treatment); HiP-JoiNT, DISEASES {Jlorbvs Cox(f, Treatment); Spine, Surgical Affections {Spinal Caries, Treatment). Extensor Response. See Babinski's Sign. Extern.—A patient treated outside a hospital (an out-patient), or the medical or surgical officer wlio is in charge of the out- patients or who resides outside the hospital. Extirpation.—The complete removal of an organ, such as the uterus or the eye, by operative means. See Uterus, Non-Malignant and Malignant Tumours {Treatment). Extracta.—Pharmaceutical preparations, liquid or solid, made by making solution of the soluble parts of the plant, etc., or by evaporat- ing down their juices; they are classified as fresh, green, aqueous, alcoholic, ethereal, and liquid extracts; and they form a large group of official preparations. See Prescribing ; Phar- macology' ; also under the various drugs {e.g. Belladonna, Ergot, Gentian, Opium, etc.). Extractives.—Matters, present in small amount and having indefinite chai'acters, which can be separated by solvents during the analysis of organic substances. See Physiology. Extract of Jea.—An extract, obtained from the tissues (spleen, bone-marrow, spinal cord, thymus, brain) of animals immunised to typhoid bacilli, and used in the treatment of typhoid fever. E Xt ra - Sy St OI e. — A heart - contraction occurring earlier than is normal; the next systole occurs after an unduly prolonged period ; and the long and short period together equal the duration of two normal periods ; a disturb- ance of cardiac rhythm or arrhythmia. Extra-Uterine Pregnancy. See Ec 'I O PIC (_{ E ST A TIO N. Extravasation. See Bladder, In- juries OF {Rupture, Fxtravasation of Urine) ; Brain, Affections op Blood-Vessels {Cerebral Hcfmorrliage) ; Meninges of the Cerebruji (Vascular Disturbance.?). Extremity. See Deformities {Ujyper and Lower Fxtremities); Fractures {Upper and Lower Extremities). Extroversion. See Bladder {21<d- formations) ; Ectopia ; Exstrophy ; Terat- ology' ; etc. Exudation and Exudates. See Inflamjiation {Escape of Fluid, Exudates) ; Ejiigration of Leucocytes ; etc. Eye. See Accommodation ; Acromegaly {SyiJiptoms, Eye) ; Amblyopia ; Asthenopia ; Bandages {Eye Bandages); Blindness ; Brain, Physiology of {Sensory Centres, Sight); Brain, Surgery of {Comptression of the Brain, Eye