FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE 335 rife in England in tho iniddlo of the eighteenth century. Wliether such is the case or not, we know from Continental authorities the disease was known abroad during last century, and tliat in the main it was well described by contempo- rary authorities. Since 1839 there have been several serious outbi'eaks of the disease in Great Britain, and during the first two years follow- ing 1870, when the Board of Agriculture first obtained returns of the diseases affecting stock, it was shown that 1,149,124 animals had been attacked with foot and mouth disease. In 1894 the disease was eradicated, and the chief vetei'in- ary officer estimates that it claimed for its victims from 1839 to its final extinction between ten and eleven millions of head of stock. Since 1894 there have been isolated outbreaks of the dis- ease, the last during February of the present year in Norfolk and Bedfordshire. The disease is always existent upon the Continent, in the Low Countries especially, and it is very probable that the occasional outbreaks we have to contend with may have their origin traced to the com- merce with these countries. Fortunately the fatality is not great among animals other than tiiose at the teat; the percentage of fatal cases varies from 1 to 5 per cent; in young animals, however, where the alimentary viscera may show lesions, the percentage may mount as high as 50 per cent or more. Transmission of the disease to the human subject is of fairly frequent occurrence, especi- ally on the Continent, though less often in this country. The disease may attack only one or two individuals, or may occur in epidemic form. In the course of an epidemic many persons in one locality have been affected, and cases may be observed to terminate fatally. The number of cases recorded in the human subject probably falls far short of representing the actual figures, on account of the difficulty in many instances of making a correct diagnosis. The first case was recorded in 1695. Since then many ejjidemics have occurred in different countries, and more especially between 1862 and 1869 in this country, though even in 1884 over two hinidred persons suffered from the disease in Dover. In Germany, a large number of cases are still recorded each year. Etiology.—The virus is contained in the saliva, the milk, urine, fnsces, and skin secretions, and retains its vitality for months, even for a year. Since the secretions and dejections are infective, it has been observed that the disease spreads along the great trade routes from the east of Europe to the west, and along the railway trunk lines, healthy animals being contaminated by the cattle trucks, stubbles, pastures, and byres that have sheltered the diseased, and by manure, litter, and fodder that liave been soiled by the infective secretions. The disease is also spread by the attendants upon the animals, milkers, cattle and sheep dealers, and others brought in contact with healthy stock. after having handled those suffering from foot and mouth disease. It is known that birds suffer from the disease, and these may assist in sj^reading the disease. The bacteria which have been found in connection with the disease possess merely an historic interest, and none of them represent the specific causal agent, which has not yet been discovered. Numerous bacteria have been found mainly in the vesicles: "Micrococcus aphtharum" (Rivolta and Nosotti), streptococci (Klein), "Streptococcus involutus" (Kurth), and pleo- morphic bacteria (Stutzer and Hartleb, van Niessen). The Streptococcus involutus appears to be a normal inhabitant of the mouth of cattle (Sanfelice). A bacillus was obtained by Bussenius and Siegel, chiefly from affected animals, but also from the human subject, in fatal cases. The bacillus somewhat resembles the members of the Coli group, and Siegel has lately admitted that it is not the specific agent. Furtuna and Starcovici, Sauer, and Babes and Proca have also described bacteria in relation to the disease. Bodies resembling protozoa were found by Schottelius, Behla, Plana and Fiorenti, and Jungers, but these bodies are probably not true protozoa, and no etiological significance is to be attached to them. The Report published in 1897-98 of the German Commission which investigated the disease, shows that as a rule no- micro-organisms can be detected in fresh vesicles, but if the vesicles are several days old, various bacteria have usually gained entrance into tlieir interior. The specific virusi is chiefly contained in the lymph of the vesicles. The blood serum does not seem to be infective after the local signs of the disease have appeared. Lymph which has been mixed with water and then passed through an unglazed porcelain filter is found to be infective. Hence the filtered lymph must either contain a toxine, which is poisonous in such a degree of dilution (y-jinre-oooTr) hardly credible, or else the supposed micro-organism is so small that it can pass through the pores of the filter. The latter is the more probable explanation, for it has been shown that the dis- ease can be transmitted from one animal to another in succession by means of such filtered lymph. Another point in favour of the virus being a corpuscular substance, is the fact that diluted lymph which has been repeatedly I^assed through a Ivitasato filter loses its virulence (Loeffler and Frosch). Lymph retains its in- fective power for weeks or months under ordin- ary conditions, but loses it if exposed to a temperature of 70° C. for half an hour, or to 60° C. for one hour. Experimental Infection.—Calves and cattle are the animals most susceptible to infection, pigs being less so. The most reliable method of infecting an animal is by the introduction of fresh lymph into the blood-stream. By this