437 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF authors deny their existence. To the outer end of the tube or to its fimbriaj there is sometimes found attached a stalked cyst; this is the true hydatid of Morgagni; it is not to be confounded with the pedunculated cysts growing from the parovarium. In the foetus the tubes present several spiral convolutions. Organ of RoseniMuller, or Parovarium.— Between the folds of the mesosalpinx there lies, in addition to the Fallopian tube, the structvu-e known as the organ of Rosemiiiilier, or Paro- varium. It consists of mesonephric tubular relics, and has also been termed the corpus pampiniforme or corpus conicum, or the epo- ophoron. Tlie organ is trapezoid, not triangular in form, and measures at its base from I'5 to 3-5 cm. transversely, while at its narrow end near the ovary its breadth varies from 4 mm. to 3 cm. ; its height is from 1 '3 to 3 cm. It lies below the Fallopian tulie and above the ovary, and is not free between the folds of the broad ligament, Init is attached to the anterior one. It consists of a horizontal duct, the remnant of the upper third of the Wolffian duct, and of a number of tubules running more or less vertically down- wards from it. The inner vertical tubules pass towards the hilum of the ovary, some reaching it, others falling short of it; the outer ones have a more curved course, and do not reach the ovary at all, but end in flask-like dilatations. The vertical tubides disajjpear near the hilum of the ovary in an obscure area (locus obscurior of Rosenmiiller). In this place, as shown by tiie microscoj^e, the tubules in an atrophied con- dition form a network, the rete ovarii, and some traverse the substance of the paroophoron. The curved tubules most commonly lie in a free fold of the anterior layer of the mesosalpinx, and they often have attached to them cysts which have been called hydatids of Morgagni, but which really differ from that structure, as has lieen already stated. The horizontal duct shows a lumen, and has a wall composed of fibrous or connective tissue with some non-striped muscular fibres, and is lined with colunmar non-ciliated epithelium. Few of the vei'tical tubules ex- hibit anything like a lumen ; they have a thin covering of connective tissue, and are lined internally by columnar epithelium near their upper end, and by cubical cells nearer the ovary. Isolated tubidar structiu-es not included in the organ of Rosenmiiller are sometimes found between that body and the uterus. These are also relics of the sexual part of the meso- nephros, and probalily correspond to the vas al)errans of Haller in the male. (Granular areas may also be found at various spots between the layers of the mesosalpinx, some lying between the organ of Rosenmiiller and the uterus, and others between the base of that organ and the Fallopian tube. In the fo-tus and child they may be seen between the tubules of the paro- varium itself. Sessile cysts sometimes take their origin in them. They consist of mixed tissue, partly fibro-cellular and pjirtly fatty, with a trace of fine canaliculi with a choked lumen. Ballantyne and Williams think that they represent relics of the urinary part of the mesonephros, and that they correspond in the male to the organ of Giraldes or paradidymis of Waldeyer (Fig. 6). Uterus.—The uterus is a hollow, thick-walled organ lying in the middle of the pelvis between the rectum behind and the bladder in front. From it the menstrual discharge comes, and in it the phenomena of the development and growth of the foetus take place. The question of its position, once much discussed, may now be regarded as settled. It is to a certain extent a movable organ, but its normal position, as determined both by clinical examination and by the study of frozen sections, may be defined as one of anteversion with a slight degree of ante- flexion ; it has a curve something like that of the anterior surface of the sacrum, and rests upon the posterior surface of the bladder; its lower end or cervix is directed downwards and backwards, and the whole organ is slightly twisted, so that its right upper angle is a little anterior to the left one. In shape it is a cone flattened from before backwards, with its base or fundus above, and its apex or cervix below. Below its middle third there is a slight con- striction, the isthmus, which divides it into a body or corpus and a neck or cervix. The lower end of the cervix shows an opening, the OS externum uteri; while the upper part of the body is the fundus, which is slightly arched, and to the angles of which are attached the Fallopian tubes. Its size varies with age, with certain physiological states, such as pregnancy, and of course with pathological conditions ; but it may be stated generally that in the adult virgin it has a length of 7'5 cm. (3 inches), a breadth of 4 cm. (al)out 2 inches), and a thick- ness of 2'5 cm. (1 inch). In a woman who has borne children all these measm'ements are slightly increased. The length of the cavity from OS externum to fundus is 6 cm. or 2i inches. The thickness of the wall is 1 cm. Its weight is from 40 to 50 granunes. Approxi- mately three-fifths of the whole length belong to the body of the uterus, and two-fifths to the cervix. The body has a form which is somewhat triangular in the virgin, and tends to the globular in a woman who has borne children ; it has an anterior and a posterior surface, of which the former is flatter, two lateral borders to which the broad ligaments are attached, a superior border or fiuidus uteri which is free, two upper angles fi'om which the inner ends of the tubes arise, and a lower end continuous with the cervix at the isthmus. A coronal section of the body shows the triangular shape of the cavity, while a sagittal section demonstrates that the anterior and posterior walls are in contact, the