EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 80 reader who does not wish to solve troublesome terniinological puzzles. Let us now proceed with our inquiry regarding the constitution of the ovular mass at the end of the first week after impregnation. What lies inside the trophoblast 1 As has been said, there is inside it a thin layer of mesoblast (two to four thicknesses of cells, Peters), a little thicker opposite the pro-embryon. Its cells are roimded, oval, and spindle-shaped. Inside the sac formed in this way by trophoblast lined with mesoblast is situated at one point the pro- embryon (for we can scarcely yet call it " embryo "). Here between the mesoblast lining de Fig. 5.—Section through Leopold's early ovum .(end of first week of pregnancy). M., muscular wall with ends of glands (de) in it; D.v., decidua vera, with compact (Comp.) and spongy (Amp.) layers ; I.e., leucocytes in the lymphatics ; D.c, decidua capsularis or reflexa, in which up to dr. i;p. gland spaces are seen, and above i i it consists mainly of fibrin ; 6 6 is the ovum or chorionic sac resting on a spur of the decidua; a, amnion ; d, decidua serotina ; c, mouth of maternal vessel; 7i, attached villi; /, imbedded villi. (Vide, Leopold's Atlas, Uterus und Kind.) the trophoblast and the epiblast of the pro- embryon is placed a small cavity, that of the amnion. It is completely closed, and is lined with a layer of very flat cells opposite the pro- embryon and with the cylindrical cells of the embryonic region themselves. It is to be noted that in this earliest known specimen (Peters') the amniotic sac is already closed, so that we can know nothing of its mode of formation ; but the fact of its being closed suggests the question whether it was ever open. Probably the amnion in the human subject is not formed by the up- heaval of folds of extra-embryonic somatopleure at all, but by a breaking down of epiblast tissue to form a cavity (Berry Hart), or by inversion of the blastoderm (Mall i). At any rate we have to put an amniotic cavity into our mental 1 Mall, F. P., "Development of tlie Human Coelom," Journ. of Morphol., xii. 395, 1897. picture of the ovular mass at the end of the first week after impregnation. On the side of the amniotic sac next to the centre of the ovular mass is the epiblast of the pro-embryon, and to the inner side of it again is the umbilical vesicle lined with hypoblast cells and showing also some mesoblast cells outside these. In the pro-embryon or embryonic area, it is to be noted there is as yet no appearance of the primitive streak, so that an amniotic sac and an umbilical vesicle are in existence before any trace of the embryo itself appears. This, also, seems to be the state of affairs in F. P. Mall's early ovum {Johns Hopkins Hos}]. Bull., iv. 119, 1893). Neither is there any indication of a cord-like structure or Bauchstiel, for as yet the amniotic and um- bilical sacs are, as it were, f buried in the mesoblast of the chorionic vesicle, h (iraf Spec, who carefully examined Peters' speci- men, could not be sure which was the cranial and which the caudal end of the pro-embryon. The remaining space in- side the ovular mass is the extra - embryonic coelom or simply the exo- cffilom. Such then is the con- ception we have to form in our mind of the new organism in the uterus about the end of the first or the beginning of the second week after impregnation. It is, so to say, only a peep that we thus obtain of antenatal affairs at this early period. There is a great lacuna in our knowledge, a lacuna which extends from the time when the human ovum leaves the ruptured Graafian vesicle up to the time when it is found implanted in the uterine mucosa with its amniotic sac and umbilical vesicle closed and the decidua reflexa nearly com^ileted. This gap in our knowledge we may attempt to fill up by observations upon the lower animals, but it is not safe to conclude that what occurs in them will occur in the human subject. We may also attempt to supply the missing parts of the kinematographic representation of the pro- gress of formative processes from our imagination, but it is still less safe to pursue this plan. So' we must be content to wait till yet earlier speci- mens of human ova are met with. It is the safest method, but the waiting may be long. Better, however, is it to wait for facts than to construct theories which have soon to be demolished.