ENZYMES 126 solution of starch, the electrical conductivity of the fluid increases. From this one can deduce a formation by the ferment of ions, and con- sequently of dissociated molecules of water. But the specific nature of fermentation in con- tradistinction, for example, to the general hy- drating effect of compressed steam, lies in the fact that the enzymes are able to split up only certain substrata. This fact has just lately been made the subject of more detailed in- vestigation. E. Fischer, for example, has caused emulsin to act on the natural glucosides as well as on a number of artifical glucosides. Emulsin splits up those natural, and in part also those artificial, glucosides which belong to the fi series, but not those of the a series. According to Fischer this elective power is to be explained by the asymmetrical construction of the enzyme molecule : if the action is to occur there must be between the enzyme and its substratum a definite relationship in the geometrical construc- tion of the molecule. " They must fit one another like look and key." This specific power of action manifests the close relationship of enzymes to protoplasm, for we know that cells in their action also show the same selective affinity for definite nutritive sub- stances. Almost all the substances which are capable of being split up by enzymes (German, " Fer- mentsubstrate ") are of an esterlike nature, e.g. the fats. The proteids, too, seem to possess an esterlike grouping, at all events tlie ferments seem to act upon a similar esterlike group. It can also, in a certain sense, be termed a " saponi- fying " action. Nevertheless, it is difficult with our present knowledge to include all the actions of enzymes under the notion of hydration or saponification, and it is especially the so-called coagulating ferments which appear to prove obstacles in this direction. The action of rennin, for example, cannot be entirely explained by hydration. A process is accomplished by it which seems to be directly opposed to the other fermentations, in which, speaking generally, bodies which are but little soluble are trans- formed by enzymes into more soluble substances : what occurs here is that a substance in a state of solution, or at all events a swollen condition, becomes coagulated. Nevertheless one must bear in mind that rennin, at the same time (see below), separates a soluble compound from the casein, and that it is only the presence of lime which produces the coagulation, i.e. the separa- tion of an insoluble compound of lime. Alex- ander Schmidt has already shown that in the coagulation of blood there occurs a synthesis of water with the proteids ; and thus this process, which is seemingly at variance with the other fermentations, may also be ascribed to a process of hydration. Lately, however, attention has been directed to a series of enzyme actions, which we have still greater difficulty in regarding as processes of hydration. We have here, however, to deal with processes which are not induced by pure ferments, but by vegetable and animal juices. It may be assumed with certainty that we are here dealing with enzymes, even if, owing to their unstable condition, they are difficult to prepare in a pure form. We must assume that these enzymes are in still closer relationship to protoplasma than are those hitherto known. In this group there are the monosaccharide-split- ting enzymes (zymase) and certain oxidations and reductions induced by vegetable and animal juices. The effects of enzymes have also been termed katalytic, for they have been compared to certain chemical bodies, in the presence of which higher compounds become bi'oken up into lower ones without the so-called katalytic substances suffering thereby any observable alteration. Thus nitrogen chloride is split up with explosion of its elements on contact with phosphorus and arsenic, which, therefore, in this case represent the katalytic substances. It is supposed that katalytic processes are con- cerned with the transmission of molecular move- ment, and Naegeli has similarly attempted to explain enzyme action. Opposed to this view is the fact that there is no hydration on the splitting up of nitrogen chloride, for example, and that in so far the simile does not correspond to most of the enzyme actions. Nor can the power which all ferments share in common, viz. of breaking up hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen, be brought forward as a proof that zymolysis is a katalytic process. The decomposition of hydrogen peroxide on contact with gold, silver, and manganese is certainly a typically katalytic process, but here again there is no hydration. Further, pan- creatic juice, for instance, on being heated to 60° C, may be deprived of its power to split up hydrogen peroxide, whilst its diastatic activity is maintained. A better analogy to enzyme action is found in the so-called contact effect, as is seen, for ex- ample, in the favourable influence which the presence of a trace of iodine exerts on the chlorination of toluol. Since enzymes break up those bodies with large labile molecules into others with smaller and stable molecules, it follows that heat must be set free in every fermentative process. This elevation of temperature is, according to Duclaux, of essential importance. He compares the fer- ment to the match which sets a pile of wood on fire. Ferment action is dependent on certain ex- ternal factors. First, one should remember the sentence, " Corpora non agunt, nisi soluta." Then the enzymes are active only when in solution, but not when in a dry condition ; they