444 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF superficial fascia with its deep layer attached to the pubic arch, and passing round the trans- versus perinei to join the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. When the fascia is dis- sected oft' the perineal muscles three pairs are revealed. They form on each side an isosceles triangle with base posterior; the base is repre- sented by the transversus perinei arising from the ramus of the ischium and inserted into the perineal body; the outer side is formed by the erector clitoridis which passes from the ischial tuberosity to the crus clitoridis; and the inner side is constituted by the bulbo-cavernosus or constrictor vaginae which arises in the centrum tendineum of the perineal body, and along with the corresponding muscle of the opposite side forms a sort of sphincter for the vaginal orifice. Below the posterior end of the bulbo-cavernosus lies the gland of Bartholin, and farther for- wards and also below the muscle is the vaginal bulb. Another muscle which finds an attach- ment in the perineal body is the external sphincter of the anus. In this place a few words of description regarding the perineal body are necessary. It is found on dissection to be a somewhat pyramidal structure filling up the space between the anus and the vagina, which is produced by the fact that these two canals diverge from one another, the vaginal axis passing forwards and the anal backwards. It is composed of muscular origins and inser- tions and of fibrous and elastic tissue. The muscles passing into it are the sphincter ani, the two transversus perinei muscles, the two bulbo-cavernosi, and the levatores ani. Its base is covered by the skin between the anus and the vaginal orifice, and constitutes the part torn in perineal lacerations, its anterior side is related to the posterior wall of the vagina, its posterior side to the anterior rectal wall and anus, while laterally there is adipose tissue. Its vertical measurement is about 3'5 cm., and its antero-posterior about 2-5 cm. The struc- tural integrity of this body is an important factor in the solidity of the pelvic floor, for when it is seriously damaged prolapse of the vaginal walls and uterus takes place. If the muscles which have been described be now re- moved the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment is exposed ; behind it are the pudic vessels and nerves and the posterior layer of the tri- angular ligament. Neither the perineal muscles, however, nor the triangular ligament constitute the most powerful supporting elements of the pelvic floor; these are supplied by the levatores ani and the coccygei muscles. The levatores ani have the form of a horse-shoe open in front, and sling the vagina and rectum across the pelvic cavity; they arise from the back of the pubic bone, from the pelvic fascia along the white line, and from the ischial spine, and they are inserted into the rectum, vagina, tip of the coccyx, and into each other. Each coccygeus muscle arises from the spine of the ischium and the inner surface of the pelvic fascia, and is inserted into the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum; it supplements the levator ani. The bladder, rectum, retro-pubic fat, along with blood-vessels and nerves and the pelvic fascia, make up the rest of the pelvic floor. The pelvic fascia is a somewhat complicated structure. It is continuous above with the iliac fascia, and at a point a little below the level of the brim, called the white line, it divides into a layer which covers the obturator internus (obturator fascia), into a thin sheet which lies on the under surface of the levator ani muscle (anal or ischio-rectal fascia), and into the great visceral or recto-vesical layer which covers the upper surface of the levator ani and passes to the bladder, vagina, and rectum, where it divides into four layers—vesical, vesico-vaginal, recto- vaginal, and rectal. The layers of the triangular ligament to which reference has already been made are connected with the obturator and recto-vesical divisions of the pelvic fascia. The remaining component parts of the pelvic floor and the relation of the parts of the floor to each other are well brought out by the sectional method of study. A vertical mesial section of the pelvis and its contents shows that the pelvic floor is made up of two segments divided by the slit of the vagina which runs parallel to the plane of the brim (Fig. 8). Hart has given to these segments the names of pubic and sacral. The pubic or anterior segment is composed of the urethro-vaginal septum and the urethra, of the bladder, and of the pad of fat lying between the bladder and the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and called the retro-pubic fat; it is somewhat triangular in form ; it is loosely attached to the pubic bones; and it is bounded posteriorly by the vagina and in front by the symphysis. It may be called the displaceable segment of the floor. The posterior or sacral segment is composed of the posterior vaginal wall, of the perineal body, of the muscles and connective and fascial struc- tures surrounding the rectum and anus, and of the rectum itself; it is roughly quadrangular in form; is firmly attached to and dovetailed into the sacrum and coccyx, and it is bounded in front by the vaginal slit, and behind by the posterior pelvic wall. It may be called the fixed segment of the pelvic floor. In the resting condition of the floor the two segments are in close contact along the line of the vaginal cleft, for intra-abdominal pressure presses the pubic against the fixed sacral segment, and so pro- duces a supporting floor on which rests the uterus and annexa and the intestines. It has sometimes been stated that the uterus should be regarded as a part of the floor, but it is un- doubtedly more correct to regard it as a viscus resting on the anterior segment of the floor. Under certain conditions the segments can be