196 EXPECTORATION films are allowed to dry. They are then fixed by passing thrice rapidly through the flame of a spirit-lamp, great care being taken not to scorch them. They are now ready for staining, which is as easily accomplished by the Ziehl- Neelsen method as by any other. A few drops of carbol-fuchsin (fuchsin 1, alcohol 10, 5 per cent aqueous solution of phenol, 100) are placed in a watch-glass, and the cover-glass is floated thereupon, film side downwards. The whole is then heated until it steams, and is allowed to stand for five minutes; after which it is w^ashed and then placed in a strong aqueous solution of methylene blue containing 20 per cent of sul- phuric acid. In this it remains for 1-2 minutes, but should be removed and rinsed at intervals to see how the staining is going on. It is generally advisable to stop the process while there is yet a faint tinge of pink in some part of the film. Having finally washed the film, it is dried between layers of filter-paper and mounted in balsam. Attention has recently been drawn to the occasional occurrence in the sputum of acid- fast bacilli other than the tubercle bacillus. The principal example is the smegma bacillus, and there are others. The following methods have been advised for distinguishing the bacillus of tubercle from these:—(1) decolourise with alcohol instead of acid; (2) decolourise with Ebner's fluid (corallin 1, absolute alcohol 100, methylene blue to saturation, glycerine 20). This is allowed to act for several minutes (Pappen- heim) or preferably for four hours (Coles). There is usually little difficidty in detecting bacilli if they are present. Tliey appear as small, straight or slightly curved, red-stained organisms, while other bacteria, cells, etc., are bright blue. The discovery of the bacillus is chiefly of diagnostic value. On the whole, their number affords but slight aid in prognosis. Little importance can be attached to irregu- larities in the shapes of the bacilli: these were formerly thought to be a sign of sporulation, but this has not been definitely proved. Since the bacilli in the sputum may be few, a single negative observation is of little value, and must be repeated. In doubtful cases a little liquor sodse should be added to the sputum, and the whole diluted after warming gently ; the deposit collected on standing or in the centrifuge must then be examined. Pneumococcus.—This may be recognised by staining films of sputum with methylene blue or carbol-thionin blue. The organisms are seen as small oval cocci about 1 /x in diameter, usually an-anged in pairs or in rows of six or eight. Each pair (or diplococcus) is surrounded by a pale, unstained zone—the capsule. The diplo- coccus is also stained by Gram's method, but for differential staining of the capsule special methods are required. Since the pneumococcus may be absent from the sputum in pneumonia. and present apart from that disease, it is only of value as confirmatory evidence. In about 5 per cent of cases of pneumonia Friedlander's bacillus is present. It somewhat resembles the pneumococcus in form, and, like it, possesses a capsule. It is stained by the basic aniline dyes, but not by Gram's method. Further important staining methods are described under Fluids, Examination of Pathological {Bacteriology). Influenza Bacillus.—-This is present in the sputum in influenza (in many epidemics, at least) if the respiratory tract be involved. It is a minute organism about '5 jj. long, lying singly, in groups, or in chains. It stains with carbol-fuchsin, but not by Gram's method. Its recognition is a matter rather of scientific than of practical interest. Other organisms may be found in the sputum. Pyogenic cocci are present in many cases of broncho-pneumonia, and, in fact, in almost all purulent sputa. In pneumonia secondary to an infectious disease—e.g. typhoid, dijihtheria, etc. —the specific organism may be found; more commonly, however, we have the pneumococcus. The bacillus mallei has been described in cases of glanders affecting the respiratory tract. Last, in cases of pneumonic plague, the diagnosis rests on the discovery of the bacillus. Actinomycosis of the lung may show itself by the presence in the spit of the characteristic yellow granules composed of the club-shaped filaments of the ray fungus. The only other of the higher micro-organisms which is pathogenic in the sputum is the As2}ergillus fumigatus, a mould to which pulmonary aspergillosis—an excessively rai-e disease—is due. Since other moulds are not uncommon, cultural methods are needed for the recognition of the aspergillus fumigatus. The streptothrix has also been found in the sputum in cases of pulmonary streptothricosis. It does not stain with carbol fuchsin, but requires the Weigert gram method for its detection. Another rare pneumo-mycosis is that due to blastomycetes—a yeast fungus. The organism is found in the sputum. Both pulmonary streptothricosis and blastomycosis clinically resemble tuberculosis. B. Non-pathogenic.—Among these may be mentioned the putrefactive bacteria, leptothrix, and vibriones, none of which are uncommon. Sarcinte are sometimes found in cases of ulcera- tion of the bronchi, and yeasts and moulds may occasionally be detected. The oidiiimx albicans is usually due to contamination from the mouth, though probably thrush sometimes involves the upper portion of the trachea also. Sarcinae occur in gangrene of the lung. (8) Animnl Parasites. — The Distoma pul- monale gives rise to a form of pulmonary disease (distomiasis), endemic in Japan and Corea, and associated with hcEmoptysis. The brown ova, "1 mm. long by '05 mm. broad, are found in the sputum. In cases of hydatids