EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF 220 eyes look down, the lower lid is further depressed and drawn backwards by the inferior rectus muscle, which is indirectly connected with the attached margin of the lower tarsus through an expansion of Tenon's capsule. The levator palpebrte, which arises at the apex of the orbit, and is attached by a thin and wide tendinous expansion to the upper margin and anterior surface of the tarsus, is supplied by the third nerve. It draws the tarsus upwards and backwards over the globe, and forms a fold in the skin corresponding to its line of insertion in the upper tarsus. By raising the outer canthus when looking up the levator also draws up the lower lid slightly. Miiller's muscle, which is supplied by the sympathetic nerve, and helps to keep open the lids, consists of unstriped fibres that arise amongst the bundles of the levator palpebrae, and are inserted with its tendon in the tarsus. Similar fibres in the lower lid extend from the inferior rectus to the lower tarsus. The occipito-frontalis, by contracting when the lids are open to their widest extent, can raise the eyebrows, but is unable to affect the position of the tarsus. Conjunctiva.—The inner surface of the lids is covered by the palpebral conjunctiva, which is thin and smooth over the tarsal, but thicker beyond them where it joins the ocular con- junctiva in the cul-de-sac (.see "Conjunctiva"). The ophthalmic division of the fifth supplies sensory nerves to the lids. The arteries of the lids are derived principally from the facial and temporal and also through the laclirymal branch of the ophthalmic. The veins empty into the facial and the ophthalmic. The lymphatics of the lids pass over the margin of the orbit at the outer canthus to enter the pre-auricular gland. Congenital Defects Absence of the lids is as rare a condition as complete adhesion of the lids, and are usually associated with defective developments of the eye. Cysts in the lower lid will be considered in connection with microphthalmos. CoLOBOMA OF THE LiDS.—Coloboma of the lid is present when the whole thickness of the lid is divided by a vertical fissure which may extend any distance from the edge of one lid up to the orbital margin. It occurs more frequently in the upper lid than in the lower. The fissure may be single or double, and is not infrequently associated with a dermoid growth on the cornea corresponding in its situation to the cleft in the lid. The treatment consists in rawing the margins of the fissure, preserving if possible the tissue at the free edge of the lid to fill up any gap which may be left there when the sides of the coloboma are brought together with sutures ; one of these should be passed through the tarsus at its free edge along the lid border. Dermoid Cysts.—These tumours which most frequently occur near the margin of the orbit have a similar origin to the dermoid growths elsewhere. An antesthetic is given, and the cyst is opened freely by a single incision, which is made through the skin and cyst wall. The contents are expressed, and the sac is removed completely, principally with the aid of two pair of dissecting forceps. The skin wound is closed with sutures and covered with a dressing. Epicanthus.—The fold of the skin, which exists over the caruncle at the inner canthus in some Oriental nations, may be so exaggerated in Europeans as to form a congenital defect or deformity. In mild cases, when the bridge of the nose grows more prominent, the defect may disappear entirely or partially, and even in marked cases it may become less pronounced. In bad cases, where the palpebral fissures are small and narrow, and the bridge of the nose is flat and measures from 30 mm. to 40 mm. between the inner canthi, no great improvement need be expected to occur; and even the re- moval of an elliptical-shaped piece of skin from over the bridge of the nose does not usually improve the patient's appearance. Other congenital defects—ptosis, distichiasis, symblepharon, and ankyloblepharon—are de- scribed subsequently, as their treatment is the same as for the acquired varieties. Affections of the Skin of the Lids Erysipelas.—When the lids are involved in an attack of erysipelas, the swelling of the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue prevents the patient opening the eye until the inflammation is sub- siding, a condition which causes him some alarm ; it is only, however, when suppuration in the cellular tissue occurs that anxiety need be felt, as the inflammation may lead to sloughing of the tissues of the lid, or extend to the orbit and cause loss of sight through optic neuritis and atrophy, or even to loss of life through purulent meningitis. The local treatment in the early stages is to apply evaporating lead lotion on lint, which is laid over the face and kept constantly wet. Directly pus can be detected a free incision must be made in the lid, and even then the skin of the lid and also the tarsus may slough away. When this occurs the raw surface must be grafted as soon as possible, and if it is necessary the margins of the lids should be rawed and joined by sutures to prevent, by their temporary union, undue shrinking of the parts. {See Lagophthalmos, p. 227.) Herpes Frontalis. — Herpes of the first division of the fifth nerve begins with neuralgic pains in the region of the affected nerve, and is followed, within a day or two, by the eruption of a crop of herpetic vesicles which appear over the course of one or more of its branches. The affected parts become inflamed and swollen, and often on account of the oedema the lids cannot