ECZEMA 33 sulphuret of potash, finely - divided nascent sulphur may be formed in the bath by the use of " sulphaqua " ^ charges. They are much to be preferred to the old form of sulphur bath. Plaster mudins. —• Unna has introduced a large number of these, which are made by Beiersdorf of Hamburg by incorporating differ- ent medicaments in a basis of gutta-percha and lanolin spread upon muslin. They are an ele- gant mode of application, and, on account of their impervious nature, have a more penetrat- ing action than ointments. Salve muslins. — These are medicated oint- ments spread on one or both sides of muslin, but without the addition of gutta-percha. ParaplaMs are similar to the plaster muslins, but are made with caoutchouc instead of gutta- percha, and are thinner and somewhat more flexible. Varnishes are fluid applications which, on drying, leave behind a hard film. In theory one might expect them to be a very useful mode of application, but in my experience they have proved of very limited value. Film-form- ing applications are indicated where it is desir- able to prevent friction. I have not met with a varnish which can resist the heat and friction of the groin and perineal groove, where, theoreti- cally, a varnish is often indicated. The collodion and albuminous varnishes are of most value on account of the pressure which they exert on drying. The varnishes employed at present are (1) etlierial, or benzine, solutions of india- ruliber, nitro-cellulose, gutta-percha; (2) spirit solutions of resins, wax, fats, oleates, and soaps; (3) watery solutions of gum, dextrin, albumin, gelatine, thiol, and ichthyol. Elliot has advo- cated bassorin as a basis for varnishes. " Gel- anthum " is made according to Unna's formula of tragacanth, gelatine, and glycerine. It is intermediate between an ointment and a varnish, but it does not keep well. Zinc gelatine.—This is a preparation made of glycerine, water, gelatine, and zinc oxide in varying proportions, according as a stiflf or a soft gelatine is required. It is in many cases of great value. The gelatine is melted in a galli- pot, and, when sufficiently cool, painted on the afl^'ected part Tintil a uniform covering has been obtained. This is allowed to set, but, before it is dry, should be dabbled over with absorbent cotton-wool, the fibres of which adhere to the sticky surface, forming a firm dry covering. One of Unna's formulas for zinc gelatine is:— Zinc oxide, 30'0 ; gelatine, 30-0; glycerine, 50-0 ; water, 90-0. 2. The Intermittent Metliod.—Where circum- stances do not permit of continuous treatment, ' These presumably consist of the acid sxilphate of soda and the dried hyposulphite of soda, wrapped up separately, the former in lead paper, tlie latter in parchment. When dissolved in separate basins of water and then nii.xed, chemical decomposition occurs with the formation of nascent sulphur. VOU III we fall back on the use of ointments and lotions. The requisites of a good ointment are sticking power, a not too low melting-point, and that it does not neutralise or be incompatible with the active properties of the included medicaments. Whenever it is desirable not to increase the heat of the part affected, the ointment should be rendered porous by the addition of some neutral powder, such as zinc oxide, calamine, or starch. Lassar's paste is constructed on this principle, and has the following formula:— Zinci oxidi 3j-, amyli vaselini 3ij- Fiat ung. The addition of water, or lime water, to a fatty ointment is often advantageous, on accoiuit of the cooling sensation imparted to the skin. The unguentum aqua) roste (B.P.) is a good specimen of a cooling ointment; its thinness is often a disadvantage, but this can be mitigated l)y the addition of 3j. or more of zinc oxide to each ounce of cold cream. The question often arises in respect of the choice betiveen an ointment and lotion in any particular case. The question is of real import- ance, as success or failure may turn on our decision. It must always be borne in mind that the action of fat {2)er se), when applied repeatedly to the skin, is to relax the surface tissues, to lessen the pressure on the capillary vessels, and to diminish the loss of water by perspiration. These effects are most apparent on the scrotum, which, under the influence of the fatty inunction, becomes soft and flabby. Therefore, whenever it is desirable to keep the skin well braced up, avoid ointments and choose lotions. This is specially indicated in cases of eczema of the scrotum (see page 41). For the same reason ointments, as a general rule, should be avoided in all cases in which we have to deal with a strong hypostatic tendency, as in eczema rulirum, or varicose eczema, below the knees. Ointments, on the other hand, should be em- ployed in preference to lotions in cases where hardness of tissues is present, where it is obvi- ously of advantage to relax the surface tissues, as in horny eczema of the jDalms and soles. AVhen in doubt as to the choice of an ointment or lotion, jDrescribe a porous ointment or paste, which may Ije regarded, therajjeutically, as intermediate between a lotion and an ointment. Constitutional Treatment.—In the treatment of the mycosiform or the accidental eczemas we need hardly consider the question of internal treatment. But in the management of the intrinsic eczemas, in which the surface tissues p'lay the leading part, we must never forget that w'e ai-e dealing with an individual wlio suffers not only from an actual injury to the skin, but also from an increased liability to further injury. It is the nerves that we have to bear specially' in mind, since they are mainly responsible for increasing the liability to injury. Whatever remedv, or influence, is able to 3