EPILEPTIC COLONIES 164 violence, mania, or other symptoms indicating insanity. The general experience at the colony has proved that the younger the epileptic, and the shorter the interval between the onset of epilepsy and admission to the colony, the more favourable and satisfactory is the influence of this system upon the course of the disease. It wonld also appear as if female epileptics responded more favourably to the system than the male sex. By way of conclusion, a summary of the evidence collected by the Charity Organisation Society from the results of this method of treat- ing epileptics in the colonies on the Continent may be quoted :—" Any attempt to provide for the treatment of epilepsy, if large numbers have to be considered, should combine school-teaching with medical treatment and supervision. For young persons and adults regular but not too laborious employment is necessary. For all alike, for the furthei'ance of self-control, and for healthy enjoyment, a well-ordered home life is required, and these the colony system provides. Medically, if the serious nature of the disease be taken into account, the colony system produces the best results. For the worst cases, and to pro- vide against the constant ailments of many of the colonists, hospital accommodation is necessary. This system will have to furnish accommodation suitable for patients of all classes, the highest, who may wish to have the best fare and rooms, and the lowest. The growth of the colony system is remarkable. It meets a very widely-felt need." Epileptic Insanity.—Although epi leptic insanity is a term justified by long usage and by the fact that it has certain well-defined features, it must be clearly imderstood that there is no group of mental symptoms patho- gnomonic of epilepsy. But if the more prominent ones are present and combined with certain facial characters, a strikingly complete clinical picture is presented, which the observer, having once seen, cannot fail to recognise as that of an epileptic imbecile or dement. For mental enfeeblement may be said to be the predominating feature of insanity associated with epilepsy, and may be said to be further characterised by manifestations of general irrit- ability and impulsiveness. Frequently with this is combined an exhibition of perverted frothy religiosity, a tendency to quote Scripture and hold improvised miniature services. A group of worshippers gathered around a garrulous, inco- herent preacher in the exercising ground of an asylum may safely be diagnosed as epileptics. Next to cases of dipsomania they betray a degree of cunning and mendacity unequalled by any other class of insane patient, and in them more than any other class is the gregarious instinct shown. Towards their own affection they manifest a curious optimism—a refusal to con- fess that the fits really occur, or an ever ready belief that they have had their last fit, coupled with an entire disregard for any of the risks which their malady daily necessitates their running. If certain few and rare cases be excepted, in whom during the course of a life- time occasional fits occur in such a sporadic fashion as to fail to produce any permanent mental clouding—indeed they have occurred in some of the most prominent role bearers of history—if these be excepted, it may be truly said that the goal of all epilepsies is towards mental enfeeblement. The character and depth of this enfeeblement largely depend upon the age of the patient at the time of its commence- ment. If such be before or during the develop- mental period the result is a condition of either imbecility or idiocy, according to the amount of normal mental development that had already taken place; if subsequent to that period, the resulting condition is that of dementia, the degree of which varies from simjale blunting or clouding of the keener mental faculties on to illustrations of the most profound depths of dementia. The physiognomy, as in other varieties of mental disease, reflects this, but in addition often presents certain special characters; the skin frequently becomes coarse and per- sistently greasy, and is apt to assume a dirty hue or pallor, while the features may become thickened and ungainly, apart from the conse- quences of falls during the fits, which curiously so often result in repeated laceration of the same area; conjoined with this, and probably owning a common origin, the neck is prone to become thickened, giving it a short, bull-like appearance. States of mental enfeeblement, however, by no means exhaust all the conditions under which epileptic insanity manifests itself. It is true they form the main underlying stratum, and may be of sufficient depth themselves to bring the patient under asylum control; but far more frequently a case of epilepsy is certified as insane as the result of the appearance of certain other mental symptoms, which may be regarded as adventitious. Such may be in the direction of depression, and constitute epileiytic melancholia with or without suicidal proclivities; or the reductions may be deeper and result in various maniacal outbursts, sometimes slight, sometimes so grave as to include the severest of all forms of delirium and frenzy, with homicidal attempts. These phases may or may not be accompanied by hallucinations, often of a most distressing character, and which may affect one or all the senses; in addition to those of hearing and sight which are the commonest, formications are especially frequent among the epileptic insane. It is among them, too, that the best examples of illusions may perhaps be found, which fact may possibly explain their tendency to make the most barefaced, unfounded charges. Associated with the above is the development of numerous delusions, usually in the direction of susjjicion