EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 95 groove in front of it; the glosso-pharyngeal as that of the third or thyro-hyoid arch and groove in front of it; and the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the vagus as the nerves of the fourtli and fifth branchial arches respectively. Lilve the nervous system, tlie alimentary tract lias likewise been increasing in complexity during tlie tliird week The mouth cavity is still not clearly delimited from the pharynx. The tihhercidum impar which becomes the buccal part of the tongue was noted in the third week; it arises from the fii^st or mandibular branchial arch, and from the first interbranchial space ; it now increases in size, and is marked ofl' by tlie two alveolo-lingual grooves; and Ijehind it is a V-shaped groove with a deep depression at its apex, tlie future foramen cpecum. The pharyngeal or posterior part of the tongue is formed from a thickening of the ventral ends of the second branchial arches, and into the angle between them the buccal part, so to say, fits. Bcliind the anlage ^ of the tongue is an inverted U-shaped ridge, the furcula, derived probably from the ventral parts of the third or fourth branchial arches, which later becomes the epiglottis. Behind it, at the end of the fourth week, is the narrow opening into the pulmonary diverticulum from the ventral aspect of the pharynx ; from this diverticulum two hmg buds have been evaginated, and these push their way into the isthmus of the crolom (the neck of communication between the pericardial and peritoneal sacs), and form the pleural parts of the coslom. The median part of the diverticu- lum forms the larynx and trachea. Rathke's pouch, an invagination found in the roof of the oro-pharyngeal cavity, lias not yet come into contact with the infundibular prolongation of the telencephalon to form the hypophysis ; this occurs in the fifth week. In the depi'ession (foramen civcum) behind the tuberculum impai-, a bilobed body develops, which later constitutes the median lobe of the thyroid gland, and takes up a position lower in the neck. Thickenings of the tissues in the posterior and anterior walls of the fourth and third branchial furrows develop later into the lateral thyroids and the jiarathy- roids; they are scarcely recognisable even as thickenings at this age. The oesophagus is comparatively short on account of the high level of the' diaphragm (septum transversum) at this age. The intestinal tube below the oesophagus is dilated slightly in spindle fashion to form the anlage of the stomach. in connection with the duodenum the anhuje of the liver has now taken the form of two lobes, a right and a left; and it is said that the hepatic cylinders (future bile-ducts) possess a lumen. Another bud from the duodenum is recognisable at the end of this ' AuIage, nicaiiing the lii-st outlint- or iiulioatioii of a part or organ, is a usL-ful Genuan word with no exact English equivalent. week : it is the small group of cells constituting the anlage of the pancreas, and it lies in the mesogastrium (the future great omentum). Below this level the intestine makes a loop toward the ventral aspect, and to this the yolk- stalk or vitelline duct is attached. The part of the loop above the vitelline duct, along with a portion of the part below, becomes the small intestine ; the rest of the tube forms the large intestine, which at this age is chiefly constituted by the entodermal cloaca. The cloaca has a pyramidal form, the apex pointing tailward ; there is, tlirough the presence of the cloacal membrane, no opening of the cloaca on the surface of the body. The small tube known as the allaiitois forms a projection from the entodermal cloaca ; and on each side of it and dorsally is the opening of a Wolffian duct. It is to be noted that the entodermal cloaca does not form tlie extreme caudal part of the intestine ; that is constituted by the end-gut, which begins to wither during the fourth week. For the end-gut Berry Hart has proposed the name Pars Ultima, and for the entodermal cloaca that of Pars Penultima [Trans. Edin. Ohst. Soc, xxvi. 259, 1901), and the nomeclature is concise and descriptive. About the end of the fourth week, or a little later, the penultimate part (entodermal cloaca) shows signs of division into an anterior and a posterior cavity by a coronal septum ; the anterior cavity forms the bladder (according to the view of Keibel and others, strongly sup- ported by Berry Hart, Jjrit. j\fed. Jourii., ii. for 1902, p. 773), the allantois only playing a subordinate part in its formation. The rest of the anterior cavity constitutes the urino-genital sinus, and the postei'ior part develojjs into the rectum. The consideration of the urinary organs at this date of embryonic life may be suitably taken up here in connection with the description of the entodermal cloaca, for, as has been stated, the Wolffian ducts open into this part of tlie primitive intestine. The Wolffian duct extends throughout the Wolffian body or mesonephros, on the dorsal side of it in the lumbar region, and on the ventral in the cervical. The Wolffian bodies are large lobulated structures, situated one on each side of the intestine from the cloaca to the sixth cervical nerve ; glomeruli can be recognised in them from the sixth cervical to the fifth lumbar nerve, and there are about three glomeruli to a segment (in Mall's 26 da}'embryo). Just before the Wolffian duct enters the cloaca, a small blind tube arises from it ; in process of time this is converted into the ureter and kidney (metanephros). This blind tube appears during the fourth week; it is not present at the beginning of it (e.g. in His' embryo a). The circulatory apparatus, like the other systems of organs, shows marked developmental advances during this week (the fourth) of intra- uterine life. The separation of the single atrium