305 FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL serum, except that it contains a nucleo-albumin derived from the breaking down of the pus seUa. This body, nucleo-histon, is precipitated 3n the addition of acetic acid to the fluid. The ous corpuscles have the same general composi- :ion as the leucocytes, but are characterised by :he presence of a nucleo-proteid which swells up n sodium chloride solution. Nuclein is present n the nucleus, while lecithin, cholesterin, giyco- 5'en, purin bases, fats and soaps occur in the orotoplasm. In an analysis of pus one of the most distinctive points is the large amount of phosphorus present. In old stagnant pus many 5ther decomposition products may appear, e.g. leucin, tyrosin, formic, butyric, and valerianic icids. The yellow pigment that occurs in pus is termed pyoxanthose, the blue pigment that jccasionally is present pyocyanin. The Bacteriology of Pathological Fluids Genera/. Procedure.—Whether the fluid be removed during life or after death, and whatever position in the body it may have occupied, the general procedure is the same—(1) to collect a sufficient quantity without contamination; (2) to prepare films for microscopic examination; (3) to isolate pure cultures of the organisms present; and (4) to test their pathogenic eifect in suitable animals. Unless each of these par- ticulai'shas been fully investigated, the research is tlieoretically inconclusive, and any deduction must be made with reservation ; but for many practical purposes it is not essential that the process should be exhaustive ; other data, clini- cal or pathological, may confirm the diagnosis indicated by an incomplete bacteriological ex- amination. Moreover, in some conditions the methods are simple and easy, and the causal l)acteria readily identified, whereas in other con- ditions the process becomes tedious and complex, and the result may remain obscure in spite of every effort. Thus the pi'esence of tubercle bacilli may in most instances with reasonable accuracy' be determined by suitable staining and microscopic examination ; while in other fluids, such as that obtained by lumbar puncture in suspected tuberculosis meningitis, the utmost care in centrifugalising, in staining and examin- ing films, in cultivation on glycerine media, and in the inoculation of animals, may be barren of result, even though at the autopsy the morbid anatomy is characteristic. lu collecting fluids during life the chief pre- cautions to be observed include the thorough disinfection of the patient's skin at the seat of puncture, the use of an aseptic syringe or aspirator, and the reception of the fluid in a sterile vessel. It is obvious that antiseptic and disinfecting substances should not be employed in such a way as to allow any admixture with the fluid to be examined. In the post-mortem room, also, special precautions must bo taken to collect the fluid without contamination. vol. Ill When tiie fluid is only slightly turbid a con- siderable quantity should be taken, several pints if possible, to admit of sedimentation; but when distinctly purulent, a few ounces will be found ample. It may happen that, for various reasons, no fluid is obtained, only some semi-solid mate- rial being withdrawn on the point of the needle. From that alone films may be prepared, cultures obtained, and the diagnosis successfully com- pleted, if the observer has taken care to have cover - glasses and culture media ready to hand. Intrathoracic Effusionti, Pleural and Peri- cardial.—As observations become more exten- sive, and bacteriological methods more perfect, there is a gradual accumulation of evidence in sujjport of the statement that, with few excep- tions, inflammatory exudations into the serous cavities are due to the action of micro-organisms. Pleuritic fluids, being more readily accessible during life than those in any other serous sac, have been studied with most detail and fully bear out this contention. If the exudation be mainly serous, it is strongly held by many observers that the tubercle bacillus is the chief causal agent. But the abundant eftusion of fluid and the paucity of the bacilli render their detection a matter of extreme difficulty even in cases whose tuberculous nature is put beyond doubt by clinical or pathological data. This obstacle to a complete bacteriological diagnosis during life occurs in practically all serous effu- sions due to tubercle bacilli, in spite of the utmost care in centrifugalising the fluid, and in staining and examining films from the sediment. Incubation on glycerinised media usiially also fails, though inoculation of animals may suc- ceed where all other means prove unsuccessful. When a tuberculous pleurisy has become puru- lent, it is usually due to the invasion of some pyogenic microbe in addition to the tubercle bacillus. Inflammation of the pleura accompanied by suppurative or sero-purulent effusion may be due to one or more of many different kinds of bacteria, but apart from punctured wounds of the chest and traumatic conditions generally, there are two organisms of special importance and frequency in empyema, the streptococcus pyogenes and Fraenkel's pneumococcus. In the experience of the writer the pneumococcus is more common than the streptococcus both in the child and in the adult, even when the pleu- I'itic conditions Avhich are associated with acute lobar pneumonia are excluded. It is noteworthy that many cases of pneumococcal empyema arise without any evidence that they have followed or have accompanied an acute pneumonia. In such cases one often finds that the organisms have undergone degeneration to such an extent that ordinary methods of staining practically do not reveal their typical structure. Cultures prepared from such fluids very often do not 20