467 GLAUCOMA often visible in eyes of normal tension, but not so often as in glaucoma. Capillary hajmorrhage may result from the obstruction of the retinal circulation. Aneurysmal dilatations of the arteries and beadlike varicosities of the veins are occasionally seen. Impairment of Vision.—Vision is affected in several ways by the pressure in the eye. The transient oedema of the cornea which occurs when glaxicoma is threatening causes temporary obscuration of vision in the daytime, and an appearance of a ring of rainljow colours around every luminous flame at night. The characters of this rainbow vision are these : The flame is seen with nearly normal clearness; around it is a dark non-luminous zone, the breadth of which on each side of the flame corresponds to an angle of 4° to 5°. Surround- ing this is the coloured zone, which has an angular breadth of 2° to 2°"5, and a total diameter of about 10° to 11°. In the coloured zone the whole of the colours of the spectrum are visible, the violet being invariaV>ly at the inner, the red at the outer border. The zone is not altered either as to size or as to position of the colours by the use of convex or concave lenses, and it is not altered by variations in the dia- meter of the pupil. It is perceived not only in direct vision, but also, though with less dis- tinctness, when the image of the flame falls on other parts of the retina than the yellow spot. An appearance corresponding in all respects with the rainbow vision of glaucoma can be in- duced experimentally by the application of a single drop of a 0'125 P.C. solution of hydro- chlorate of erythrophleine to the eye ; at the same time a faint haze of the corneal epithelium occurs. This experiment, while it clearly shows the dependence of rainbow vision on a disturb- ance of the corneal epithelium, proves also that it is not necessarily dependent on an excess of pressure in the eye. The much-dreaded rain- bows, therefore, are not invariably a sign that glaucoma is approaching. They occur also in some congestive states in which no increase of tension is discovei'able. Further, the sensibility of the I'etina is lowered when an excess of pressure falls upon it, as any one may discover for himself by making finger pressvu'e on the eyeball—an experiment not to be made freqtiently or incautiously. Sensibility may be abolished by pressure, over the whole area of the retina, but less easily in the region of the macula than elsewhere. Acute glaucoma is attended with a more or less complete I'etinal paralysis of this character. It appears to depend on a disturbance of the circulation in the retinal vessels, and perhaps in the choroidal plexus, on which the rods and cones of the retina depend for their nutrition. Chronic glaucoma is attended by i-etinal paralysis of a different kind. Tiie field of vision fails at the periphery, while at the centre it remains for a while intact. This peripheral contraction of the field is discoverable at first only in a sub- dued light. It commonly begins at the inner or nasal margin of the field, involves the inner, upper, and lower portions before the outer, and slowly advances till it has reduced the senti- ent area to a small oval or slit-like form ex- tending outwards from the fixation point to the blind .spot and beyond it. It next involves the fixation point and the adjacent area, so as to leave only a small eccentric area of vision ex- tending outward from the blind spot, corre- sponding to a small area of the retina extending inwards from the optic disc. Ultimately this fails also and the eye is blind. This contraction of the field is probably the expression of pro- gressive damage of nerve-fibres in the excavated disc, those belonging to the temporal half of the retina suffering earlier than those belonging to the nasal half; those passing to the periphery earlier than those supplying the macular region. The contraction does not always follow the typical course here described, but the com- parative immunity of the central and outer parts of the field during the failure of the remainder is found in a very large majority of cases. This characteristic, together with the relatively sharp line of demarcation between the sentient and non-sentient areas, and the relatively good retention of colour vision in the former, help to distinguish the contracted field of chronic glaucoma from that of primary atrophy of the optic nerve. When the field is tested by means of very minute test objects defects are found which would otherwise escape detection, and these defective areas, wherever situated, appear to be in direct continuity with the blind spot of the optic disc. The two types of retinal paralysis are often combined. An acute glaucoma initiates the loss of vision by obstructing the circulation ; prolonged pressure completes it by excavating the disc. Timely removal of the pressure will do nnich to restore what is lost through recent interference with the blood - supply, but the loss due to atrophy of nerve-fibres is permanent. Clinical Varieties of Primary Claucoma.— Acute iwimary glavcoma is apt to be mistaken for an inflammation of the eye, an attack of erysipelas, or a neuralgia. In some cases it arises without known cause and without warning of any kind. More frequently it is preceded by one or more transient attacks of dimness and rainbow vision, and is attributable to chill, exhaustion, loss of sleep, or some other of the exciting causes which have already been dis- cussed. In some cases it shortly follows the use of atropine or some other dilator of the pupil. Pain begins in the eye more or less suddenly, increases from hour to houi", and extends over the side of the head and face. In the severest cases vomiting occurs and the patient is much prostrated. Vision is much