211 EYEBALL, INJURIES OF globe, which gives way, not at the point of impact, but at some distance from it. This indirect rupture is in adults ahnost invariably in the sclerotic, in young persons it may be in the cornea; it is most frequently directly upwards, or upwards and inwai'ds, and is concentric to and about 2 to 3 mm. from the corneal margin. The coats of the eye give way from within out- wards in contrast to what takes place in direct ruptures, so that septic infection is not at all liable to occur; the eye may shrink, but does not suppurate. If the conjunctiva escapes, the rupture is recognised by a dark curved line, the tension is greatly diminished, the eye full of blood, and vision is usually reduced to per- ception of light. If, as is often the case, there be extensive effusion of blood under the con- junctiva, the actual rupture cannot be seen, and its occurrence can only be inferred from the history and symptoms, especially the soft- ness of the eyeball. Some of the contents of the eye are often forced through tlie gap in the sclerotic, very often the lens is dislocated mider the conjunctiva, and shows as a rounded, scmi- translucent swelling, or if the conjunctiva is torn it may escape altogether. The iris may retain its position, but usually the segment corresponding to the rupture is forced back- wards into the wound, giving the appearance of a coloboma. Indirect ruptures may veiy rarely be situated in the posterior segment. Mules records such a case in a lad who was struck with a brick, where the sclerotic around the optic nerve formed a hernial protrusion backwards, associated with a typical rupture of the choroid. The lens has been found in Tenon's capsule from scleral rupture unusually far back, as in cases of Mtiller and of Schlodtmann. The iris may escape bodily with or without the lens, or it may be caught and retained under the conjunctiva as in a case under my charge, where it siiowed as a dark, irregular, and slightly-raised patch from which the pigment wandered, so that in a few weeks the entire ciliary region became covered with pig- ment granules. See cases by Hirsch, Ahlstrom, Knapp, and Gayet. Treatment of Indirect Rupture.—If the rupture is large, the conjunctiva torn, and there has been uuich loss of vitreous, causing collapse of the globe, excision of the eye should be done without delay. If there is some sight and no marked collapse of the globe, an attempt should be made to save the eye. Any protruding uveal substance is picked up with iris forceps and excised with scissoi's, and the edges of the conjunctiva are brought together by a few tine silk sutures. It is a good plan, as recommended hy Berrj', to excise some conjmactiva at one lip of the wound, so that when the stitches are applied the wound l)ecomes quite subcon- junctival and removed from the line of sutures. Cases of subconjunctival dislocation of the lens often do remarkably well without any surgical interference, the blood clears away, the scleral woiuid unites solidly without any bulging or sinking, and fine print can be read with a strong convex lens. Mules records in vol. vii. Trans. Ophth. Socy. a case where both eyes made a good recovery from an injury of this nature from the blow of a fist. This favourable course probablj' occurs in those cases where the lens is thrust quite through the lips of the wound. Some recommend removal of the lens in all cases at an early date. Personally, if the eye is doing- well, I prefer to leave it alone for some weeks or even months till the wound is quite healed, and then open the conjunctival covering and clear out the lens. If, on the other hand, the lens with some portion of the uveal tract is jammed in the wound, the healing process is very tedious, plastic uveitis comes on, and may lead to sympathetic disease, as in the case fi'om which Fig. 1 was drawn, a woman who repeatedly refused to have the eye removed. Under these conditions the lens and any por- tion of uvea protruding should be removed and the eye dealt with as described above. If in spite of this the eye does not quieten down in a month it must be excised. Direct ruptures and wounds of the eyeball may take place from the thrust of a cow's horn, a blow from the branch of a tree, piece of wood, as in chopping up fuel, "tip-cat," stone from catapult, flying shuttle, police baton, or from a stab from a rapier, knife, nail, fork, iron table- fork, or pitchfork, or from the bursting of a steam gauge or soda-water bottle, etc. In the most severe cases, especially when combined with extensive injury of the lids and adjacent pai'ts, the patient may show general symptoms of collapse, and Fromaget records a case of tetanus, with death on the eighteenth day after the injury, and later with Cabannes another case with a fatal issue about the tenth day. See also case by my colleague Edward Roberts {Lancet, 1891). The wound may be confined to the cornea or the sclerotic, or it may implicate both. Speak- ing generally, corneal wounds are not so liable to be followed by severe destructive inflamma- tion as are those in the sclerotic, and as pointed out by Berry this is due to the gush of aqueous at the moment of the accident washing away any septic matter, and to the lips of the wound not being kept apart by prolapse of the inner coat of the eye or the vitreous. The gravity of the case depends more largely upon the depth of the wound than upon its external measure- ments, and from this it follows that, as in other parts of the bodj% stabs and punctures are more destructive than incised wounds. In Figs. 2 and 3 we see corneal stabs followed by suppurative hyalitis, with papillo-retinitis in one and detach- ment of the i-etina in the other. In neither eye .was there the slightest implication of the choroid.