FILARIASIS 280 Varicose Inguinal Glands (the axillary- glands are rarely affected) are often associated with lymph-scrotum; they occur at times with chylous dropsy of the tunica vaginalis, with chyluria, or with all of these conditions. The glands may be affected on one side or both, giving rise to hernia-like, firm, lobulated, or fluctuating swellings, varying from the size of a walnut to that of an ostrich egg. These swellings consist of dilated lymphatics, the varicose condition extending into the pelvis and involving the thoraic duct. Tapped by means of a hypodermic needle, a fluid similar to that found in lymph-scrotum is obtained; this gener- ally contains filarite. These tumours, which give a dull note on percussion and little or no impulse on coughing, disappear slowly on apply- ing pressure, and are reduced when the patient is placed in the horizontal posture. The tumours are usually painless at first, only caus- ing discomfort through sensations of dragging and fulness, the same being aggravated by exer- cise and standing or walking. They are, how- ever, at times rendered very painful through the occurrence of periadenitis. Chylocelb is a condition often associated with the above ; here the tunica vaginalis con- tains more or less milky or red fluid, such as has been described above, whilst filarise are often present in the blood. All of the affections just described are brought about, according to Manson, by the occlusion of the thoracic duct, due to the presence or effects of the filarijE. The effects remain, but the worm may die. When the duct becomes occluded, a stasis of chyle and lymph takes place in the whole tributary system of the duct, and an attempt at the formation of an anasto- mosis with the lymphatics draining the upper portion of the body is made. To reach this anastomosis the contents of the duct must run backwards by way of the pelvic, inguinal, upper femoral, and scrotal lymphatics over the abdomen to the upper part of the body. The vessels along the route of travel become vari- cose, and, depending upon where they rupture, the conditions above referred to will be pro- duced. " When we tap a lymphatic varix of the scrotum or the groin, we tap the anasto- motic plexus by which the chyle, denied a route up the thoracic duct, is finding its way to the circulation." Elephantiasis arabum is frequently encoun- tered in tropical countries, but is practically unknown beyond 35° N. and S. latitude. Manson states that 5 per cent of the population are affected in parts of Travaucore, nearly 50 per cent in Samoa and Huahine. The disease usually attacks the legs or scrotum, or both, more rarely the arms, mammte, and female genitalia. Manson (1894) and Thorpe (1896) state that a greater liability to implication of the arms and breast is observable in the South Sea Islands. The disease begins with lymphan- gitis, erysipelatoid inflammation of the integu- ments, " prolonged rigor, followed by high fever ending within one or two days in diaphoresis," and " often in a sort of lymphous weeping from the implicated skin" (Manson). The attacks recur at intervals, and are followed by enlarge- ment of the part, so that after some years enormous hypertroj^hy of the skin and cellular tissue results, giving rise to the "elephant-leg," which may measure 10-12 inches or more across, or to enormous growth of the scrotum, so that the part may weigh 20-30, or even in extreme cases as much as 200 pounds. Diseased mammae may hang down as far as the pubes or knee, whilst the hypertrophied labia may weigh as much as 8 pounds. When the scrotum is much enlarged, it assumes a pyri- form shape and rests on the groiuid. The integument of the penis having gradually been drawn down, the glans retaining its normal position, the latter comes to be situated at the bottom of a long tube of skin which opens about half-way down the front of the scrotum. The testes are often atrophied or deformed ; they are generally, though not always, situated at the end of the greatly elongated cords, having been carried down with the growth. Hydrocele is frequent. When, as occasionally happens, the skin of the penis is affected, curious deformed enlargements resembling a ram's horn may result on the anterior surface of the scrotum. Circumscribed patches of skin may also be affected by elephantiasis. In old cases the skin is roughened and tuberose, in the case of the leg great folds of skin form about the ankle, which retains some power of motion. " The nails are rough and thick, the hairs in parts long and coarse, sensation impaired, sweating defective, skin often dark. The leg is not usually affected above the knee, the line of demarcation being either sharp or more or less diffuse. Sections of the affected skin show the derma and subcutaneous tissue to be greatly thickened, fibrous, and white, whilst the deeper layers of the superficial fascia are converted into a loose, yellowish, blubbery-looking dropsi- cal tissue containing here and there fibrous bands, many large veins and lymphatics. The sheaths of the large vessels and nerves and the muscular aponeuroses are thickened, the under- lying bones may be hypertrophied and rough, tlie lymphatic trunks dilated, their radicles varicose and thinned " (Manson). The lymph- glands are enlarged and fibrous. Large ulcers, abscesses, and gangrenous patches may give rise to serious complications. That filarise bear an etiological relation to elephantiasis arabum is claimed by Manson, who advances the hypo- thesis that the condition is brought about by the blocking of the lymphatic vessels through filarial ova and the effects consequent thereon. He explains the fact of filarise being rarely