425 GENERAL PARALYSIS proportion as it abounds in drunkenness, and the ever-increasing weakness and brain decay as manifested in general paralysis is but one indication of the disastrous results of alcohol. Of latu years the relationship of syphilis to general paralysis has been much discussed. The writer's experience has led him to believe that syphilis is one of the most important of the factors of causation of a degenerative neurosis which is included in and described as general paralysis. At least 50 per cent of the cases of general paralysis under his care have had definite histories of syphilis, and jjrobably, if all the facts were known, the percentage would be greater. The following types of insanity associated with syphilis occur :— 1. Types not entirely conforming to the classical descriptions of general paralysis.—The symptoms are: mviscular tremors in tongue and hands, alterations in speech, inequalities of pupils, illusions or hallucinations of the special senses, depression or exaltation, loss of memory, mental weakness, temporary loss of conscious- ness, and not infrequently partial paralysis or hemiplegia. The diagnosis is difficult, and sometimes an autopsy alone is able to deter- mine the existence of either simple cerebral syphilis or the diffuse periencephalitis of general paralysis. To this type Fournier has applied the name of ffeneral syijhilitic 2^seu(lo-2:iaralysis, or general pseudo-paralysis, implying in no respect any morbid entity whatever, still less a "modified general paralysis," and still less "general paralysis" peculiar to syphilis, but merely implying a jmrticular modification of cerebral syphilis recalling more or less the pathological physiognomy of general paralysis. 2. Types which have a history of syphilis, but present no feature pertaining to syphilis, or are exclusively syphilitic, are not influenced by anti-syphilitic treatment, and have a pathology of the nature of a general encephalepathy rather than of cerebral syphilis. The symp- toms are mainly those of so-called true general paralysis, and the condition may be termed parasyphllitic yeneral -jJaralyms. 3. Types seen in early life and due to in- herited syphilis.—Not only may there be arrest or defect of mental or physical development, but there may be epilepsy. In some cases local lesions about the cranium, membranes, or the brain itself may account for the paralysis and the mental defect. There are, however, other cases in which the evidence of syphilis is quite clearly determined. These cases present a remarkable resemblance to general paralysis. The salient features of some of them are slow but progressive dementia, with steady develop- ment of generalised paralysis and great emacia- tion. Whether they are true cases of early general paralysis is still doubtful ; tiiey might be termed cases of conijenital jiardsi/pliilitic proyresdve par/ili/sr.t. 4. Numerous other types of cases with mental or physical symptoms occur, without, however, bearing any resemblance to progressive paralysis; they need not, therefore, be considered hei'e. The close relationship of tabes to general pai'alysis has been urged quite recently by Mott. The relative frequency of the occurrence of syphilis as a causal factor in both diseases is noticeable, but this alone hardly seems to justify the assumption that the two states are identical. Systemic spinal lesions of sensory or motor tracts might result from the same cause, and the proof of syphilitic origin of tabes, pi'imary cerebral spastic paraplegia, or of general paralysis, does not warrant the assumption that they are one and the same disease. Pathology. — None of the morbid )»rain changes found can be said to be distinctive or exclusive to general paralysis. The skull-cap is usually heavier than normal and maj' exhibit exostoses. The dura mater not uncommonly has rusty discoloration of its inner surface, or arachnoid cysts may be present. The subdural or subarachnoidal fluid is turbid and increased in amount. The arachnoid itself may be thick- ened, opaque, watery, or gelatinous. The pia, or stripping, adheres to the cortex cerebri along the summits of the gyri, especially of the frontal and parietal lobes. The gyri are atrophied and the lateral ventricles widened. The atrophy markedly affects the central and precentral gyri, basal ganglia, pons, and medulla. Small foci of softening are common in the grey and white matter of the parietal, central, and temi^oral gyri. Degeneration of the arterioles in con- junction with increase of arterial blood pressure may cause hfcmorrhagic foci, especially about the basal ganglia, pons, and medulla, grey degeneration and atrophy of the cranial nerve roots are frequent. The din-a mater of the spinal cord may be adherent to the vertebrae, the cord-tunics being thickened chiefly posteri- ori}'. Hfumorrhagic or calcareous deposits on the inner surface are not so frequent as in the brain. Various systemic lesions of the cord itself occur, the lilood-vessels are frequently congested, and adhesions may be formed between the j^ia and cortex. The histological changes in the brain sub- stances are—increase of blood-vessels, which are distended and tortuous; jDroliferation of nuclei of the vessel wall, and extravasation of leucocytes; blocking of the subadventitial and perivascular lymph spaces by lymph-corpuscles and waste products ; increase of glia-cells, especially in the outermost layer of the cortex; degeneration of the nerve cells and their processes, beginning usually in the apical processes, the cell-body undergoing granular, fuscous, sclerotic changes, or vacuolation ; wasting and degeneration of the cortical association nerve-fibres. In brief, the connective tissue becomes hypertrophied and 1 the nerve tissues atrophied. The peripheral