103 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN middle line, nasal pits which, although incom- plete, suggest a nose, and recognisable eyes, but with no eyelids or even an/ages of eyelids. The embryo is beginning to be dimly human in appearance, a change which is aided by the dis- appearance of the second, thiixl, and fourth liranchial arches and grooves into the sinus priecervicalis whose margins close over and entomb them. In its internal arrangements the embryo is rapidly passing towards a more mature distribu- tion of structures and organs. The origins of cranial nerves can be recognised; the pituitary body is present, so are suprarenal capsules and a sympathetic sj'stem with a solar plexus; the liowel has thrown itself into a U-shaped loop, and given thus an indication of its coming- division into small and large intestine; the thvroi'iossal duct is beginning to close ; the ureters are present as little buds from the Wolffian ducts: and in the genital ridges histological evidence can be obtained of the sex to which the embryo belongs. In the region of the brain, also, the anlages of numbers of new parts and structures have appeared, including those of the medullary velum, pons, velum interpositmn, o{)tic thalami, corpora striata, tuber cinereum, and falx cerebri. Finally, the surface of the whole body is covered by the epitrichium, that mysterious layer whose fate and whose functions are alike imknown. The Sixth Week The sixth week after impregnation is the last of typically embryonic life. It is not that there is no further organogenesis after this period, as a matter of fact some organogenesis is going on up to the full term of antenatal existence and even after it; but the sixth week marks the close of the epoch of almost purely constructive processes. By this time all the great formative procedures have been initiated ; the plan of the human embryo has been, as it were, fully indicated; some complicated rearrangements have also been effected ; and the embryo may now be called the transition-organism, for although it is not yet a foetus it is no longer simply an embryo. We may call it the neo- foetus. There is still much to be done : many of the organogenetic processes have to be carried to completion; a great deal of histological differentiation has to be effected ; many parts have yet to assume their mature relations witli each other and with the framework of the body ; the organism has to grow from an embryo measin-ing little more than half an inch in length to a foetus of twenty inches; and modi- fications have to occur in the manner in which its organs carry on their functions, and in the relations which they bear to the maternal economy. Nevertheless, for the organism as a whole, truly embryonic life has nearly finished; and wliat remains to be done is no longer development but growth and histological and physiological differentiation. Extra-embryonic Parts in the Sixth Week J. C. Webster gives a good and detailed account of the extra-embryonic parts of the uterine contents at the sixth week (fhiman Placentation, pp. 15, 28, .38, etc., 1901) ; upon this the following description is based. The decidua vera varies from 3 to 7 mm. in thickness, and can be readily divided into a compact and a spongy layer. The spongy part can be subdivided into an outer part with slightly branched glands, and a deeper portion where there is much branching. The lining epithelium is still to a great extent present, although somewhat altered : the columnar cells are now cubical or flattened ; their nuclei are rounded or flattened in shape, and some have degenerated; and the cilia have disappeared. The glands have increased in size, but there is no complete evidence of any new formation of them; their mouths (in the compact layer) are narrowed or obliterated ; their deeper parts are much enlarged ; their epithelium is generally cubical or flattened, very rarely columnai', and in many instances is shed in masses or in individual cells. In the interglandular tissue the most marked change is the development of the decidual cells : this change is practically limited at present to the compact layer, and is most evident in its outer portion ; the decidual cells are romided, oval, polygonal, or spindle- shaped, with large and somewhat rounded nuclei, and in most places they are connected by broad or slender processes; and here and there they are seen with two nuclei, probably indicating the occurrence of cell-division. In the compact layer the capillaries in some parts are enormously dilated, in other parts there is only a moderate increase in size ; here and there are small extra- vasations of blood in the decidual tissue. The decidua reflexa (capsularis) has not yet come into contact with the vera, so that a uterine cavity still exists, although it is diminished in size by the growth of the embryo and its envelopes. The basal and polar part of the reflexa can be distinguished : the former consists of an inner compact and an outer spongy layer which contains gland spaces, not so numerous as in the corresponding layer of the vera or serotina; the latter or polar portion contains very few or no glands. None of the glands open on the inner surface of the reflexa. Blood spaces are to be seen throughout the membrane ; in the basal part some conmiunicate with the intervillous spaces of the opposed chorion kieve; and here and there masses of syncytium may be traced into the vessels. At this age there are already signs of degeneration in the reflexa, of the nature of coagulation- necrosis of the decidual tissue, so tliat in the innermost part is found a layer of fibrin-like