ECZEMA 43 condition of the heel may develop, closely re- sembling tuberculated and syphilitic hyper- tropliy, but without the same tendency to spread beyond the regions of pressure. The cure is very tedious, but must be conducted on the same lines as those indicated above. Nails.—The nails, when involved in the eczematous process, become, like the palm cuticle, thickened and brittle, and lose their smooth, glistening aspect. The longitudinal ridges become coarse and pronounced, and the surface appears pitted " like the rind of an orange." In chronic cases the nail becomes greatly thickened. According to Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson eczema of the nail is to be dis- tinguished from psoriasis by the fact that in the latter the process begins at the free margin, and not at the lunule, as in eczema. Further, in psoriasis the surface of the nail is unaffected, while the disease tends to the partial loosening of the nail. Arsenic, which in Mr. Hutchinson's experience cures psoriasis of the nails, has no effect on eczema in this situation, nor even on those mixed cases in which psoriasis and eczema coexist. Eczema of the nail is extremely i-e- liellious to treatment. The best results in the writer's experience have followed the frequent local application of a strong solution of salicylic acid (oj.) in acetic ether (5j-)' ^^^^ '^^'^ being scraped previous to each application. This treatment is not suitable if the surrounding soft parts of the finger are inflamed. The skin itself nuxst be cured before tlie nail treatment can be undertaken. The parasitic fungi, achorion and some varie- ties of the trichophyta are capable of invading the horny substance of the nail, which in such cases becomes brittle and tends to split into lamiufc, in consequence of which it becomes rough and lustreless in appearance. Whenever the substance of the nail has a crumljled aspect, fragments should be softened in liquor potasste and microscopically examined before pronounc- ing a diagnosis. If its parasitic nature were overlooked difficulties might arise on account of its contagiousness. Eczeina.'toicl.—Resembling eczema, e.g. eczematoid dermatitis (vide Dermatitis Trau- matica ET Venenata, Acute Eczematoid Der- matitis). Eddyism.—The system taught by Mrs. Eddy of Lynn, U.S.A., by which sickness is said to be cured by a mental process; Christian Science or Mind Cure. Her work, Science and Health, with a Key to the Scriptures, is said to have gone through 250 editions (1905). In 1866 Mrs. Eddy began to teach, in 1879 she organised the Church of Christ Scientist, and in 1876 her followers formed the Christian Scientists' Association. Eddyism comes into conflict (1) with medicine, for, according to its tenets, drugs, etc., are useless; and ("2) with the law, where, for instance, a person has died while under the charge of a Christian Scientist who might presumably have been saved had ordinary remedial measures been applied. Edebohls' Operation. See Decap SULATIOX, ItEXAL. Edocephalus. — That variety of the cyclopic monstrosity in which there is a nasal proboscis above the single eye, the ears are approximated or united under the head, the maxillaj are atrophic, and there is no mouth {vide Ballantyne's Antenatal Pathology, vol. ii. p. 425) ; it is derived from Gr. al^oiov, sexual organs, and Ki<^aXi], head, the reference being to the penis-like proboscis above the single eye. See also Cyclopia ; Cyclotia ; Teratology ; etc. Education. See Blind, Training and Education : Mind, Education of. Efferent. — Vessels, nerves, ducts, or strands of tissue which lead away from an organ or structure of the body; it is opposed to afferent. See Paralysis. Effleurag'e.—A variety of massage move- ments, slow and gentle, given with the palm of the hand, from the periphery of the part toward the centre. Efflorescence.—A rash or redness of the skin, also a group of cutaneous lesions (vesicular, papular, pustular, etc.) constituting one of the exanthemata. See Measles ; Small- pox ; etc. Effluent.—A term applied, in connec- tion with sewage, to the fluid part after the sewage has been subjected to purification ; the purity of an effluent may be quickly tested by shaking it up in a bottle about half full for one minute, when, if the effluent be good, the froth should not remain for more than three seconds. See Sewage and Drainage. Effusion.—As the derivation (e, out, fvndo, I pour) indicates an effusion is something " poured out" into the subcutaneous tissue, into an internal organ or cavity, or on a free cutaneous or mucous surface ; it may be blood, serum, lynqih, chyle, or pus; it may occur as a transudate (in dropsy) or as an exudate (in in- flammation). EgersiS.—W;dvefulness of a marketl kind ((ilr. eye//-)(o, I awaken). Egg'. See Diet {Eggs) ; Invalid Feeding {Eggs) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion (Animal Food,% Eggs).—An egg will keep longer if it be coated with butter or varnish to exclude the air, or if it be placed in lime water with tartrate of potash ; the freshness of an egg may