GENERATION, FEMALE ORCxANS OF 431 (2) Osseous Pelvis as a whole. — The pelvis as a, whole has the form of an inverted truncated cone slightly flattened from before backwards; the base looks upwards and forwards, and the apex looks downwards and backwai'ds. In its interior is a curvilinear, irregular canal, the upper part of which constitutes the large or false pelvis, and the lower the small or ti'ue pelvis. Its external surface may be generally described as I'oughened for the attachment of muscles, while its internal surface is smooth. The false pelvis may be more accurately defined as the part lying above the plane of the brim, bounded behind by the last two lumbar verte- bras, at the sides by the iliac bones, and anteriorly by the non-osseous abdominal wall. The plane of the brim in its turn may be defined as an imaginary surface, bounded behind by the sacro-vertebral promontory and the sacro-iliac synchrondoses, at the sides by the ilio-pectineal line, and in front by the ujjper border of the pubic bones and of the symphysis pubis. In the adult the normal non-pregnant genital organs do not lie in the cavity of the false pelvis ; but in the foetus and infant the upper part of the uterus and the annexa lie above the plane of the brim, and in pregnancy, after the fourth month, there is a similar but more marked ascent of the internal genitals. In the lateral walls are the internal iliac fossae, which have a normal depth which it is difficult to express in figures, but which ought to be impressed upon the memory in order to dis- tinguish it from the deepened state of the fossae in the malacosteon deformed pelvis, and from the flattened out condition in the rachitic pelvis. There are two iniportant diameters in the false pelvis : the interspinous, which joins together the two anterior superior iliac spines, and measures 24 cm.; and the intercristal, which jiasses between the widest apart portions of the iliac crests, and measures 27 cm. It is there- fore convenient to remember that normally the intercristal diameter is slightly more than one inch longer than the interspinous. The inter- trochanteric diameter is about 31 cm. The true pelvis contains tiie generative organs, and requires a more detailed description than the false, for in it the phenomena of reproduc- tion take place. It forms an irregular canal slightly enlarged at the middle, i.e. irregularly barrel-shaped ; it is curved in the same manner as the anterior aspect of the sacrum, concave anteriorly. Its parts, diameters, inclination, planes, and axes call for description. It has three jxrrts — brim, outlet, and cavity. The brim is the upper end of the canal, and is also known as the upper strait or pelvic isthmus, and has of course the boundaries of the plane of the brim (vide supra). In form it may be called oval or elliptical, but it is most correctly termed heart-shaped or cordiform, for the pro- jection of the sacral promontory indents the oval posteriorly. The outlet of the true pelvis is also called the lower or perineal strait, and it is bounded behind by the tip of the coccyx, at the sides by the ischial tuberosities, and in front by the lower margin of the pubic bones and of the symphysis pubis. Its circumference is broken postero-laterally by the deep sacro- sciatic notches; these, however, are converted into foramina by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and then the outlet has an ovate form, the broad end being posterior, and being indented by the projection forward of the tip of the coccyx. Anteriorly the circvunference is broken by the pubic arch, which has a height of 5 cm. in the middle line, and a widtli varying from 3 cm. in the upper part to 9 cm. in the lower. Between the inlet and the outlet of the pelvis lies the cavity. It has a somewhat circular form. Its anterior wall has in the middle line a height of nearly 2 inches (4 to 5 cm.), and consists of the posterior aspect of the symphysis pubis and of the pubic and ischial bones as far back as a line dropped vertically downwards from the ilio-pectineal eminences. In this wall are the two obtui'ator or thyroid foramina. The posterior wall is made up chiefly of the anterior curved surface of the sacrum, and has a height of about 6 inches (15 cm.) if the curve be followed. It is worth noting that on this wall, at the junction of the first and second segments of the sacrum, there is often a slight pi'ojection which might possibly l)e mistaken for the promontory which lies above it. The anterior boundaries of the posterior wall are lines dropped from the sacro- iliac synchondroses towai-ds the insertion of the sacro-sciatic ligaments into the coccyx. Between the anterior and posterior walls lie the lateral walls, which have a height of about 4 inches (9 to 10 cm.). The anterior part of each lateral wall is called the anterior inclined plane ; it looks backwards, inwards, and upwards, and corresponds to the internal aspect of the bone bearing the acetabulum, and of the body of the ischium and ischial tuberosity. The pos- terior part is called the posterior inclined plane ; it looks forwards, inwards, and upwards, and corresponds to the internal aspect of the ischial spine, and of the sacro-sciatic ligaments and foramina. These inclined jilanes must on no account be confounded with the jDlanes of the pelvis to be described below ; the former have been supposed to play an important part in the mechanism of labour; the latter are geometrical conceptions useful in describing the mechanism of labour. The diameters of the pelvis have a very con- siderable obstetric importance, and are described in relation to the brim, outlet, and cavity. The diameters at the brim are specially worthy of note ; they are six in number—antero-posterior, transverse, two diagonals, sacro-cotyloidean, and sacro - pectineal. The antero-posterior is also called the sacro-pubic, sacro-suprapubic, or the