GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 415 cases of inflaoimatory diarrhoea there is no naked-eye lesion whatever; in many there is only slight congestion of the mucous membrane in parts of tlie ileum and colon. A few cases show some undue prominence of the solitary follicles in the large intestine, so that its mucous membrane appears to be studded thickly with little round bosses, and in such cases there is sometimes also swelling of the Payer's patches in the lower part of the ileum. Ulceration is l)ut rarely present (the writer found it in 5 per cent). In some cases small round ulcers arc present in the ileum ; they are mostly shallow, with no thickening of their edges, and arc usually quite independent of the Peyer's patches ; sometimes only four or five are present, sometimes a score or more. In other cases a much more extensive irregular ulceration occurs in the colon, and more rarely in the lower part of the ileum ; the ulcers are usually superficial, with no thickening at their edges, but the surroruiding mucous membrane may be intensely congested and swollen. Such ulceration is often limited to one part of the colon, it may be at the c;cciun and on the lips of the ileo-ciBcal valve, or in the lower part of the colon, or even in the rectum. A still more rare condition is membranous in- flammation of the colon, in which irregular areas of superficial ulceration are covered by a greyish white memlirane, very like that seen on the fauces in dijijhtheria. In some of the more chronic cases of diarrhea a curious appearance like that of the chin after shaving is seen, areas of mucous membrane in the colon or in the lower part of the ileum are closely stippled with black dots, giving the " shaven beard" appearance, probably due to the deposit of pigment perhaps from minute blood extravasations in the small glands or in the superficial part of the mucous membrane. Microscopic examination of the intestine may show well-marked lesions even where there is nothing abnormal to the naked eye. The earliest change is a round-cell infiltration of the mucosa, with some shedding of the epithelium; in more advanced cases the sub-mucosa is also infiltrated, the vessels are distended, and there is distinct increase in size of the solitary follicles and of the Peyer's patches from similar round- cell infiltration. Sometimes the mucosa is found at some jjarts to have disappeared over a collection of small round cells which form the base of an ulcer. In the most severe cases there may be considerable exudation of fibrin together with the round-cell infiltration, and the presence of such fibrin on the surface of the mucosa or over an ulcerated area produces the membrane which is seen in some of these severe cases. In chronic diarrha-a similar changes occur, but repair has already taken place to some extent, the inflammatory infiltration has become organised, and a newly-formed fil>rous tissue is seen separating and compressing the glands of the mucous membrane, which have in this way disappeared. An actual cirrhosis of the mucous membrane thus takes place, and the affected areas are no longer able to absorb properly. These histological changes account for the iutractal.ile wasting which may follow a chronic diarrha'a. Tredtiiient.—(a) Prophylactic.—The first and most important of all measures is the continu- ance of breast-feeding, and breast alone, until the age of at least nine months, and it is wise to prolong it for two or three months longer if in this way weaning during the hot sunnuer months, especially July and August, can be avoided. In hand-fed infants strict care in diet {vide " Infant Feeding "), and in particular the steri- lisation or pasteurisation of the milk, will do much to avert the risk of diarrha'a. The use of the old-fashioned feeding-bottle, with its long rubber tube coated inside with stale milk and bacteria, is to be strictly forbidden, and the modern boat-shaped bottle substitutt'd. There can be no doubt that attention to the sanitary arrangements of the house, and in par- ticular of the inirsery, is of the greatest import- ance. Some of the worst cases of diarrhea in infants and in young children occur where sani- tation is in some way defective, it may be from some leakage of a soil pipe, or from defective traps in a water-closet outside their room. Ventilation must be fi'ee; soiled diapers must never be allowed to remain in the nursery. Town children may with advantage be sent away to the country or seaside during the hot season ; the cooler and purer air of the country certainly has a considerable value as a curative agent when diarrhoea is already present, and probabl}^ is also of great value in prophylaxis. The influence of chill in the production of diarrha'a in infants must not be forgotten. Knitted drawers worn over the diaper should cover the abdomen and the upper part of the thighs, and when the child goes out woollen gaiters reaching well up the thighs, or better still woollen drawers reaching down to the ankles, should Ije worn, not only on winter days, but also on the chilly days of autunm and spring. {b) Therapeutic.—In the treatment of diar- rhaa in infanc}' diet is often of greater import- ance than drugs. In a large number of cases, especially of chronic diarrhoea, the feeding is found to be entirel}^ unsuitable, and the first step, sometimes indeed the only one necessary, is to correct the diet in accordance with the age of the infant. It will often happen, however, that some special diet is required as a tempoi'ary measure. In most cases of acute diarrhaa milk nuist be omitted altogether for some days ; but where it is thought advisable to continue it, the milk should be well diluted, and lime water should be freely given with it, for, apart from its value in increasing the digestibility of the