GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 402 position, e.g. in the mid line at the level of the umbilicus. (2) Absence or undue Shortness.—This is very rare. In one case the small intestine measured only 2 feet {Bart. Mus. Cat.); in another the colon was absent; in another there was no vermiform appendix. (3) Stenosis or Obliteration.—This is found occasionally in any part of the intestine, but much more often in the small than in the large bowel. Of cases occurring in the small intestine, 42 per cent are in the duodenum (Silbermann). Where multiple stenoses occur it seems likely that a volvulus during intra-uterine life may have caused them. In some cases festal periton- itis has been present, and seems a more likely cause. The bowel above the stenosis is usually much dilated, while that below is small, or for some distance may be represented only by a fibrous cord. The condition can only be suspected during life from symptoms of intestinal obstruc- tion, where these are not due to imperforate rectum or anus. Complete occlusion generally proves fatal in a few days; cases of slight stenosis have lived to adult life. (4) Diverticula.—The persistence of part of the omphalo-mesenteric duct not uncommonly causes a diverticulum in the ileum feet above the ileo-csecal valve, usually as a blind pouch "I-3 inches in length. The writer found such a diverticulum eleven times in 500 auto- psies. Sometimes from the end of the diverti- culum a fibrous cord, representing the obliterated portion of the duct, passes to be attached at the umbilicus, or the whole duct may be patent up to the umbilicus, forming a faecal fistula from which prolapsed mucous membrane often pro- trudes. In either case the persistent duct serves as a fixed band under or over which coils of intestine may at any time become strangulated. Faecal impaction may also cause inflammation in the blind diverticulum, and not very rarely the diverticulum is found forming part of an external hernia. Diverticula elsewhere are very rare, especially in the large intestine. (5) Imperforate Anus or Atresia Recti.—This is due to imperfect development of the hind gut and its failure to meet the proctodseal invagina- tion. It occurs in various degrees : (a) there may be only a thin septum separating a well- marked anal depression from the blind end of the gut; (6) the rectum may end blindly 2-3 inches away from the surface, and there may be little or no trace of an anal depression; (c) there may be a septum occluding the rectum 1-3 inches above the anus, although below the occlusion the rectum and anus are normal; {d) the rectum may open into the urethra, bladder, vagina, or even in the loin {xnde " Diseases of the Rectum"). (6) Rectal or Anal Stenosis.—Without being actually imperforate the anal opening is some- times abnormally small (p. 113). In such cases it may be stretched under an anaesthetic or enlarged by incision. Similarly the rectum may show narrowing of its lumen or a partial septimi at any part of its course, and dilatation or incision may be necessary. Diseases of the Oesophagus Acute oesophagitis., as a primary condition, is occasionally found in early life, chiefly during the first year. It is scarcely recognisable clini- cally. The symptoms are unwillingness to suck, pain on attempting to swallow, and regurgitation of food almost directly it is taken. Tenderness on pressure over the lower part of the trachea is also said to be present (Morell Mackenzie). As a secondary condition oesophagitis has been found with the specific fevers, and the writer has met with it in fatal cases of infantile diarrhoea. In such cases it produces no special symptoms. The application of leeches or of hot fomentations to the neck has been recommended in the rare cases where the condition is suspected during life. Thrush sometimes spreads down from the pharynx into the oesophagus, and forms a milky- white layer which is found to consist of the spores and mycelium of the so-called "oidium albicans " mixed with epithelial cells ; the fungus may penetrate deeply between the cells of the mucosa, and has been found forming so thick a layer as even to obstruct the passage of food. Diphtheria not very rarely causes a membran- ous oesophagitis. In forty consecutive autopsies on children with diphtheria the writer found membrane in the lower 1-2 inches of the oeso- phagus in three cases, and intense congestion of the same area in two others. Ulceration of the oesoplmgus is very rare. Superficial erosions have been found as part of the acute oesophagitis of infants, and rarely in older children. The pocks of variola have been found in the oesophagus in children as in adults (StefFen). The least rare variety is tuberculoiis ulceration from without; the caseous bifurcation gland ulcerates through into the oesophagus about two inches above the cardiac orifice. The writer found such a perforation four times in 270 autopsies on tuberculous children. In none of these cases were any symptoms produced, but hfematemesis and meleena have occurred. Tuber- culous ulceration apart from such direct exten sion is extremely rare. The writer met with it twice in the same series of cases. Softening of the oesophagus, like the similar condition in the stomach, with which indeed it is usually associated, is probably an entirely post-mortem phenomenon. It seems to be much commoner in infancy and early childhood than in adults, and it is remarkable that it is much more often found with intracranial disease than with any other condition : the writer met with it eight times in 500 autopsies in children ; seven were cases of tubercular meningitis, the remaining one was a meningocele. The lower end of the oesophagus, about 1 inch above the