465 GLAUCOMA depend on l>locking of the filtration area by a rudimentary structure, not visible in the living- eye, which represents the iris. It is obvious from the foregoing that the remote causes of glaucoma are very various, and include constitutional diseases ; disorders of the respiratory, vascular, and nervous systems; in- juries, morbid growths, congenital imperfections ; and senile changes. Tlie immediate cause of the high tension appears to 1)0 in all cases an obstruc- tion which leads to accumulation of fluid within the eye. Symptoms.—The symptoms of glaucoma are numerous and complex, and vary consideraV)ly in different forms of the disease. They are the results of the pressure within the eye. In primary glaucoma we see these pressure changes in their uncomplicated form ; in secondary glau- coma they are more or less modified by the presence of other changes in the eye. Before describing the clinical varieties of primary glau- coma it will be well to consider the various pressure symptoms from the point of view of their causation. Increased tension of the eyeball is the leading symptom of glaucoma. Every medical man shoidd know how to detect it:—The patient is told to look downwards; the surgeon, standing before him, steadies his hands by resting the outer fingers on the forehead, places the tips of his two forefingers on the upper eyelid, and feels the globe behind the margin of the cornea with gentle alternating pressure. He then feels the fellow-eye in like manner for com- parison. It must be remembered that promin- ence of the eyeball is no evidence of increased tension, and that persons whose tension is normal frequently complain of a sense of fulness in the eyes. The following symbols are em- ployed to describe variations of tension :— TN : Tension normal. T -f 1 ?: Doubtful increase of tension. T -I-1 : Slight but positive increase of tension. T -F 2 : Considerable tension ; the finger can slightly impress the coats. T -1- 3 : Extreme tension ; the finger cannot dimple the eye by firm pressure. T - 1 ?: Doubtful reduction of tension. T - 1 : Slight but positive reduction of tension. T -'1, T - 3 : Successive degrees of reduced tension. Many attempts have been made with more or less success to replace the finger test by an instrument of precision—the tonometer. The instrument designed and used by the writer is so constructed as to make a known pressure on the surface of the sclera and to indicate the depth of the impression produced. For esti- mating doubtful changes of pi-essure it is a useful aid in many cases, but in daily work no instrument can replace the finger test. Injection of the Eye.—-A sudden access of VOL. Ill high pressure, by embarrassing the internal circulation, and by reflex nerve action, causes intense engorgement of the external vessels, with more or less oedema of the conjunctiva, swelling of the lids, and sometimes even pro- ptosis. In less violent attacks the visible in- jection is limited to the ciliary zone and the larger vessels which pass backwards from it. In glaucoma of gradual onset there is little or no visible injection of the eye beyond some enlargement of the main anterior ciliary vessels, arteries as well as veins. The ciliary arteries especially are more prominent and more difficult to empty by finger pressure than in health. Fain. — Pain varies with the amount of vascular disturbance. In acute attacks it is sometimes extremely severe and radiates through all the branches of the fifth nerve. In slow non-congestive glaucoma it is often entirely absent, or occurs only in the last stage when congestion supervenes. Cloudijiess of the Cornea.—-T^he lymph streams which traverse the normal cornea are hindered in their flow when the tension of the tunics is suddenly raised. A condition of slight oedema is set up, minute di'ops of fluid collecting beneath the anterior epithelium and between the more superficial fibres. It is this a^dema of the cornea in its incipient stage that causes the appearance of rainbows round the light which many glaucoma patients notice at the beginning of an attack. When more pronounced it causes a visible cloudiness of the cornea and is in large part the cause of the extreme obscurity of vision which occurs during the height of an acute attack. The glaucomatous opacity of the cornea is distinguished from all forms of inflammatory opacity by the rapidity with which it appears and disappears in con- nection with changes of pressure in the eye. When high pressure is long continued the corneal epithelium may thicken and separate in vesicles or blebs ; the opacity is then denser and more permanent. In glaucoma of very gradual onset the oedema of the cornea is entirely absent until the later stages of the disease are reached. Anaesthesia of the Cornea. — During acute attacks, and in the later degenerative stages, the cornea partly loses its sensibility, probably through maceration and compression of the nerve filaments by 'the fluid collected beneath the epithelium, and their rupture when the epithelium is separated. Dilatation of the Pupil.—In acute glaucoma the pupil is dilated. This depends probably on a lowering of the blood-supply to the iris produced by the rise of pressin-e and aggravated by the compression of the iris-base between the turgid ciliary processes and the cornea. The compression affects the nerves of the iris as well as the vessels, and the dilatation ultimately becomes permanent through paralysis and 30