204 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF of displacement which the opacity undergoes gives an indication of its distance from the plane of the pupil. For examination of the deeper parts of the eye the ophthalmoscope is required. {See E.ETINOSCOPY.) Estimation of Intra-ocular Tension.—The only principle on which it seems possible to measure the intra-ocular tension in the living eye is that of gauging the resistance which the globe offers to external pressure. It is evident that any method based on this principle cannot accurately fulfil its purpose, since the total resistance is due not only to the intra-ocular tension, but also to the resistance offered by the tunics of the eye, which will depend upon their thickness. There are two ways in which the resistance of the eye to pressure may be expressed numerically. A known pressure may be em- ployed, and the depth of the depression made in the surface of the globe be measured, or the pressure required to produce a depression of constant depth may be measured. Mechanical appliances, called " manometers," have been constructed on both principles. The best is that invented by Mr. Priestley Smith, in which a constant pressure of 15 grammes is employed, and the depression produced is indicated in tenths of a millimetre. Most surgeons, how- ever, produce pressure with the fingers. In practised hands this probably gives as accurate a result as any other method, while the novice would be equally likely to be misled by any mechanical contrivance. To estimate the tension with the fingers the surgeon should face the patient. The latter should then look down, while the surgeon places his two index fingers on the upper lid, a little above the position of the cornea. With one of the fingers pressure is alternately made and relaxed, while the other, kept in position, steadies the globe. After some practice on normal eyes it is possible to become familiar with the sensation produced by treating the eye in this way, and to appreciate slight degrees of hardness or softness. It is obvious that the method requires experience, that it allows wide scope for individual differences, and that it affords no real basis for expressing the result numerically. An attempt was, however, long ago made by von Graefe in this direction, and his method is still followed. Normal tension is expressed as Tn. An eye which is perceptibly harder than normal is said to haveT-f 1. If there is stony hardness, pi'eventing any sensa- tion of dimpling, T is + 3, while T -f 2 is midway between 1 and 2. In the same way different degrees of softness are indicated by the signs T - 1, - 2, or - 3. The estimation of increased tension is mainly useful as an indication of glaucoma. Any con- siderable excess, if long continued, inevitably leads to serious consequences. Even so slight an increase as to be overlooked even by ex- perienced observers will, if it persist for some months, produce glaucomatous cupping of the optic disc, while a great increase will cause marked symptoms immediately, and may pro- duce complete blindness in a few hours. This is due to the loss of function in the retina from pressure upon its delicate structure, and to the impediment to the circulation in the choroidal and retinal vessels, arresting the normal process of secretion and removal of fluid. As a con- sequence there is violent pain radiating along the branches of the first division of the fifth nerve, intense injection of the superficial vessels of the eye, a fixed and dilated pupil, and great turbidity of the intra-ocular fluids, preventing ophthalmoscopic examination. Between these extremes there are various degrees of increased tension causing subacute glaucoma. Diminished intra-ocular tension, unless due to a temporary cause, such as the escape of fluid through a wound, is no less serious, since it indicates that the secreting power of the ciliary body, which is the source of supply of the intra-ocular fluid, is impaired. It pre- disposes to detachment of the retina, and is likely to be followed by shrinking of the eye, which then probably becomes tender, injected, and painful, and a possible source of danger to the other eye. Visual Acuity, indicated as "V," is expressed by a fraction showing the relation between the vision of the patient and that of an arbitrary standard which is taken as the normal. The standard has been arrived at by an examination of a considerable number of normal eyes, and represents the average vision of a healthy adult eye. In children the vision is somewhat above the standard, and in old age below it, while there are also individual variations depending partly on practice, and partly on other condi- tions which are imknown to us. The standard depends on the size that the retinal image of an object must have in order that the form of the object may be recognised. The size of the retinal image depends upon the size of the object and its distance from the eye. If lines be drawn from each extremity of the object through the optical centre of the eye to the retina, it will be seen that objects sub- tending the same angle have the same sized retinal image. The angle made by such lines at the optical centre is called the visual angle. If letters be taken the thickness of whose com- ponent lines is not less than one-fifth of the diameter of the whole letter, it will be found that an eye can easily recognise the form of the letter when it subtends a visual angle of five minutes (x^th of a degree). The test types known as Snellen's, which are those generally used, consist of a series of letters