49 ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF allow of reposition of the bones, and give a better result than resection. That this may be done satisfactorily, nine or even twelve months after the injuiy, has been proved by the author in several recent cases. Dislocation forwards of both Bones.—A sub- luxation forwards of both bones is very rare. The comparatively large and curved olecranon process prevents luxation forwards, and it is only when the olecranon is taken at a disadvan- tage, as when the forearm is fully flexed, that luxation is possible without fracture. The injury to the soft parts is considerable. In effecting reduction, the arm should be fixed while traction sufficient to bring the ole- cranon over the trochlea is made; the forearm is then flexed. Lateral Dislocation of both Bones. — Of the lateral dislocations, that outwards is the more common, possibly on account of the slanting trochlear surface of the humerus. Both are uncommon, and usually incomplete. In the outward variety the internal lateral ligament is torn, or the internal epicondyle separated. The trochlear humeral surface can be readily felt and defined ; the capitellum is embraced by the sigmoid ; and the radial head lies quite beyond the external condyle, where it also can be felt and seen projecting just under the skin. In the inward variety the reverse condition is met with. The external lateral ligament is rujDtured, or the external epicondyle separated. The head of the radius rests on the trochlear humeral surface, while the sigmoid, with its olecranon and coronoid processes, can be felt siuTOunding the internal epicondyle. There may be some backward or forward dis- placement of one or other bone in addition. Reduction in either form is best done under an anajsthetic, and might be expressed thus — hyper - extension, lateral pressure, traction, flexion. Dislocation of the H/hHus or Ulna, alone.— One or other bone may alone be dislocated, or one bone may be dislocated forwaixls and the other backwards. Of the two the radius, fi'om its position and shape, is the more usually involved, and may be dislocated forwai-ds, backwards, or outwards. Dislocation forwards is the more common variety, and comes next in frequency to dislocation of both bones backwards. Dislocation forwards of the Radius. — The commonest cause of this dislocation is a fall on the extended and pi-onated hand ; occasionally it is the result of a blow on the upper part of the radius itself from behind. The surrounding ligaments are torn; the orbicular may escape in the child, but suffers like the others in the adult. The displaced head of the radius can be felt lying to the inner side of the supinator longus VOL. HI and the extensor muscles, and to move when the forearm is svipinated or pronated. Complete flexion of the forearm is impossible. In reduction fix the humerus and employ traction with the forearm flexed and supinated, extend, and with the thumb of the hand grasping the humerus guide the head into its place. If attempts at reduction are futile, perhaps from an intercepting piece of torn capsule, the joint should be explored by a lateral incision and the cause removed. Note. — This dislocation is a not infrequent accompaniment of fractm-e of the ulna in its upper third, and while the fracture is easily recognised, the dislocation may be overlooked (Helferich). Of the other dislocations of the radius little need be said ; both the backward and the out- ward forms are infrequent, and not difficult to diagnose. In young children, as pointed out by Jonathan Hutchinson, jun., and others, a sudden and violent pull to the foi'earm, especially if supinated, is apt to cause the radial head to slip the orbicular ligament. There is little or no de- foi'mity at the elbow as a result, but the arm hangs helplessly by the side, and is very painful to manipulate. With flexion and full pronation the head will return to its place. Dislocation of the Ulna alone {nnconimon).—If the radius, from its position and shape, is moi'e frequently luxated forwards, the idna, for similar reasons, is more frequently luxated backwards. This dislocation closely resembles on super- ficial examination a dislocation backwards of both bones, but close examination reveals the normal situation of the radial head. The ulna is easily replaced. Sprains A spi'ain of the elbow- joint ditters in no respect from a sprain of any other joint, except it be the fact that if the wrench be at all severe it is usually not a simple sprain but accompanied by separation of one or other of the bony prominences. The ligaments of the elbow-joint, with the exception of the anterior and posterior, are very strong, and though some strands of fibres are torn, it is exceptional to have their complete rupture. The tendinous and aponeurotic attachment of the various muscles around the joint are stretched, and in places torn, causing rupture of the smaller blood-vessels and exti'avasation of blood. Subsequent ecchymosis indicates the site, and, to a certain extent, the severity of the sprain. The synovial membrane shares in the damage done, with the result that free hannori-hage may take place into the joint. The nerve-trunks may be implicated from pressure. 4