8 ECLAMPSIA a bolus with a little butter, and placed as far back upon the tongue as possible, may reach the stomach. A soap and water, or castor oil and turpentine, enema should also be given if necessary. At the same time the action of the skin must be encouraged. The patient must be kept in blankets, and hot baths administered if possible. If the latter are not possible, a wet- pack or hot-air bath may be tried instead. The amount of urine excreted may be increased by applying hot stupes over the kidneys, w-hile abundance of fluid by the mouth—if the patient is conscious—will also be of use. Diuresis, or at any rate the dilution of the poison, can also be obtained by intravenous or subcutaneous in- jections of saline solution. For this purpose a solution of the strength of a teaspoonful of common salt to the pint of water is generally used. The same quantity of a mixture of equal parts of bicarbonate of potash and common salt is considered to be better on account of its superior diuretic effect (Jardine). From two to three pints are injected at a time, and repeated as is thought necessary. In conjunction with saline injections, vene- section, to the amount of 17 ounces, has been recommended, with the object of removing some of the toxine-laden blood, which is then replaced by the saline fluid. Whatever may be the value of venesection in attaining this object, it is undoubtedly of use in those cases in which there is marked engorgement of the right heart and pulmonary circulation (Fehling). (f) By emptying the uterus.—Emptying the uterus is said to be a certain method of check- ing the fits (Dtihrssen). The author would prefer to modify this statement by saying that if the patient survives the emptying of the uterus, whether by artificial or natural means, she will almost certainly recover. In other words, the prognosis of the case becomes most favourable when the patient is safely delivei'ed. On the other hand, uterine contractions or operative interference will for the time increase the frequency and violence of the fits in the same manner that any other violent move- ment or emotion will increase them. If the fits can be checked before labour comes on the prognosis of the case is improved. If labour comes on before the fits are checked, the shorter the duration of labour the better the prognosis will be. If the fits continue in spite of all treat- ment, and labour does not come on of its own accord, the uterus had better be emptied. In such a case the prognosis cannot be made worse, while it may be improved. Following this reasoning, it seems best not to induce labour unless all other means of checking the fits fail. While if labour comes on spontaneously its duration should be shortened as far as possible without adopting too violent measures, that is to say, apply the forceps as soon as the necessary conditions for its application are present. If it is determined to empty the uterus before the onset of labour, the os is dilated by deep incisions (Dtihrssen), or, in the case of multiparae in whom the cervix is long, by combined digital and instrumental dilatation. If the foetus is dead its extraction may be facilitated by per- forming craniotomy. (2) The Staving off of Complications.—Com- plications can to a great extent be avoided by means of intelligent nursing, and by paying the greatest attention to details. While the patient is in a fit she must not be allowed to bite her tongue or otherwise hurt herself. Biting of the tongue is a common accident. Its occurrence can be prevented by the use of a gag of some form placed between the teeth during the fit. Avery serviceable gag can be rapidly made by wrap- ping a towel or other piece of cloth round the handle-end of a spoon. All feeding by the mouth must be stopped while the patient is unconscious. If it is necessary to administer nourishment while she is in this condition, nutrient enemata must be given. The position of the patient must be such that all fluid which tends to collect in the mouth will trickle out at the side of it, instead of running down into the lungs, i.e. she must lie upon her side and not upon her back. If the heart becomes weak and rapid, digitalin and strychnine may be ad- ministered hypodermically. Prognosis.—The prognosis for both mother and child in eclampsia is bad, especially for the latter. For the mother the prognosis varies according to the time at which the fits start. It is worse when they commence during preg- nancy or labour, it is best when they commence during the puerperium. The greater the numl)er of fits the worse the prognosis. As a rule the occurrence of ten fits constitutes a very severe case. If the child dies, the maternal prognosis is improved (Winckel). The amount of urine passed and the quantity of albumin in it, the presence or absence of marked con- stipation, the temperature, and the condition of the heart and lungs, are also important guides. Eclampsia, New Theories op Origin and Methods of Treatment. Since the preceding article (by Dr. Jellett, of Dublin) was published in 1900, no compli- cation of pregnancy, labour, and the puer- perium has been the subject of more extended investigation: new theories of pathogenesis have been advanced, and new methods of treatment founded thereupon have been tried. It cannot, however, be claimed that the cause of this grave condition is yet clear or its treat- ment satisfactory; it still remains to some extent the opprobrium of the obstetrician. It may be well, however, to indicate briefly these new theories of pathogenesis and methods of treatment, for in some of them may lie concealed