EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 98 Coste, and others by Eabl, Phisalix, R. Dorello, and Hochstetter. In length the embryo now measures from 8 to 14 mm.; probably, then, 1 cm. may be taken as representing its average length about the middle of the fifth week. The distinct C shape of the fourth week is beginning to be partly lost: the body of the embryo shows some straightening, and so the head seems as if it formed a right angle with it. Between the region of the hind-brain and the back opposite the origin of the anterior limb-bud, there is a slight concavity, called Nackengruhe by His; this persists till the eighth week {vide Neo- fcetal Period, p. 109). Towards the end of the fifth week the head, as seen from the side, has an area about equal to that of the rest of the body; the cephalic and cervical flexures or bends are well marked, the latter reaching its maximum at this date. Both the Bauchstiel and the stalk of the umbilical vesicle have lengthened ; they are combined in part of their extent to form the single structure, which may now be called the umbilical cord : towards the end of the week the cord shows one or two spiral turns, and contains one or more coils of intestine. The stalk of the umbilical vesicle is longer than the cord, and is disposed between the chorion and the amnion. The limb-buds show a marked development during this period of seven days : at first they are unsegmented ; then they exhibit two seg- ments ; then the tripartite division ; and finally the digits are roughly indicated in outline, being still webbed. The upper limbs are generally more advanced in formation than the lower ones; for instance, they show digitation earlier. Along with their differentiation into three parts or segments, the limbs have undergone increase in size, and in embryos of about thirty-five days they project beyond the outline of the body in profile views. When the limbs are in the two-segment stage, the distal part is flattened and the proximal cylindrical, and there is a con- striction between; later, a second furrow or constriction appears in the cylindrical part, dividing it into two parts. So the foot, leg, and thigh, and the hand, forearm, and arm are marked out. The tail of the embryo is now very marked ; in fact, in this (the fifth) week it reaches its maximum development, and is evidently a true tail (Fig. 17). At the other end of the embryo the cervical or prsecervical sinus has greatly deepened, so that the fourth, third, and even the second branchial grooves have disappeared from the surface and lie within it. The first branchial groove is still seen; in fact it never enters into the cervical sinus, but persists externally as the external auditory meatus. Around it the six tiibercles, which unite later to form the pinna or external ear, are quite recognisable. In the adjacent facial region marked changes can also be seen. The nasal pits are in process of demarca- tion by the growth of processes in the following- manner : from the naso-frental process its two lateral edges, the two globular processes as they are called, become thick and rounded, and form the inner boundaries of the nasal pits ; and from the sides of the base of the naso-frontal process the two lateral nasal or frontal processes grow downwards and outwards, and bound the nasal pits externally, shutting them off from the de- pressions for the eyes. The nasal pits, however, are still in communication below with the primi- tive oral cavity. The lateral nasal process on each side is at first separated from the maxillary process of the same side by a groove (the naso- optic furrow or lachrymal groove), but later it unites with it and grows inward towards the middle line below the nasal pit; in the sixth week, as we shall see, it joins the naso-frontal process, and so separates the nasal pit from the oral cavity. Towards tlie end of the fifth week the mandibular processes unite in the middle line. About this time the optic vesicle comes into contact with the lens vesicle and is invagin- ated by it, becoming the secondary optic cup. The under surface of the vesicle is also invagin- ated, and so is that of its tubular stalk, so that an aperture (choroidal fissure) and a trough are thus formed. Mesodermic tissue grows into the optic cup through the choroidal fissure, and it also grows into the trough of the stalk (future optic nerve); in these places it gives origin later to the vitreous body and the central artery of the retina. The only other external feature of note at this stage of development is the forward projection of the abdomen, due to the large size which the liver has now attained. It may be added that the ectoderm (or epiblast) covering the body consists of two layers: an outer one, the epi- trichium, made up of slightly flattened cells which later become dome-shaped, and an inner layer of larger cells which give rise to the epidermis. The internal arrangements may now be de- scribed, the same order of description being followed as was adopted for the fourth week. The spinal cord, in the fifth week, is divisible into three layers: an outer neuroglia layer or marginal velum, a middle or mantle layer, and an inner or ependymal layer. These have increased in thickness, and the cells of the ependyma have become ciliated. The sympa- thetic system shows a further advance in forma- tion. Two ganglionic masses are found near the omphalo-mesenteric artery, one above and the other below the vessel; these represent the ganglia of the solar plexus, and the upper ganglion is joined to the ganglionated cord by fibres representing the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. Near the origin of the umbilical arteries is another enlargement of the ganglionated cord, which represents the pelvic plexus (inferior mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia). Cells, also, are found in the neigh-