5 ECLAMPSIA blood-pressure occurring during the attacks, wiiile those cases in which there is no renal disease can be explained by the neurotic tiieory. Bouchard's Theory.—Bouchard's tlieoiy—the so-called auto-intoxication theory—though that term will also apply to the last — attributes eclampsia not only to a failure of function of the kidneys, but also of the liver. As a result intoxication occurs, not only from urinary extractives, but also from biliary substances which remain in the blood, and from ptomaines which are no longer destroyed in the liver. Auvard and Riviere add to this theory the effects of the failure of elimination in the skin and lungs, while Bouffe de Saint-Blaise con- siders the hpemorrhagic infarcts of the liver as the pathognomonic lesion of eclampsia, to which even the convulsions themselves are of secondary importance. The cause of this lesion, he thinks, may be found in some chemical or septic toxine which is formed in the intestine, and is brought to the liver by the blood. There can be no doubt that hepatic as well as renal incompet- ence plays a certain part in the pathology of eclampsia, but whether this incompetence is primary or secondary is extremely douljtful. All that can be said on this point is that there is far more reason for considering renal incom- petence primary than there is for considering hepatic incompetence so. And if a doubt exists as to the primary nature of the former, it a fortiori exists as to the latter. The Bacterial Theory.—The bacterial theory of eclampsia has never made much advance, although it has had from time to time strong supporters. Herrgott attributes some cases to such a cause, while Stroganoff strongly upholds the view that eclampsia is a contagious disease. The objections to a Ijacterial theory are— (1) That eclampsia is never an epidemic disease. (2) That it is more common amongst in-imiparte than amongst multiparte. (3) That no bacterium constant in its presence or capable of reproducing the disease has been isolated. The Neurotic Theory.—The neui'otic theory attributes eclampsia to a heightened irritability of the nerve-centres, or to excessively strong- stimuli from the uterus (eclampsia reflectorica). This theory—-to which support is given by instances of eclampsia which show the influence of lieredity or of a neurotic disposition—will explain those cases in which no evidence of renal disease can be found. Riberaont-Des- saignes and Gueniot bring it to the assistance of the renal auto-intoxication theory as furnish- ing the necessary predisposing factor by the concurrence of which poisoning by lu-inary extractives can cause the onset of eclamptic attacks. In addition to these theories there are certain facts which are known to predispose to eclampsia. These are :— (1) Acute and chronic disease of the kidney, especially that form known as preg- nancy kidney. (2) Obstructed delivery. (3) A neurotic temperament, especially if hereditai'y. (4) Old and very young primiparse. (5) Long retention of the excretions. (6) Multiple pregnancy. The foregoing are the principal theories on the causation of eclampsia and the known pre- disposing facts. Taking into consideration the great number of the former which have been brought forward, and for the majority of which there is some support, it seems most rational in the present state of our knowledge to consider eclampsia, not as the result of one definite con- dition, be it of the liver, or of the kidney, or of the higher centres, but rather as the result of the midue stimulation of the nerve-centres by toxic substances—the direct or indirect result of the pi'egnancy—circulating in the blood, or of peripheral irritation from the genital tract. In each patient the nature of the toxine or of the peripheral irritant may differ, and with it the special symptoms of the case, but in each the pathognomonic symptom will be the occur- rence of convulsive attacks. Looking at the origin of eclampsia in this light we find that its causes can be classified in general terms in the following manner:— I. The poisoning of the nerve-centimes by toxic substances circulating in the blood owing to— (1) The accumulation of normal toxines in the blood from failure of the renal, hepatic, or intestinal eliminatory func- tions, due to pre-existing disease of these organs. (2) The excessive formation of normal toxines, or the formation of abnormal toxines, either in the mother or the fa-tus, which in their process of excretion through the kidneys cause nephritis, and hence a diminished renal function, and hence a further increased amount of toxines in the blood. II. The over-activity of the nerve-centres, due to— (1) Their over-excitability to normal stimuli, as in the case of hysterical patients or epileptics. (2) Their over-irritation by excessive stimuli, as in the case of obstructed labour, very painful laV)our pains, very old or very young primiparie. SyiMPToms.—The symptoms of eclampsia nmst be considered under two heads :— (1) Prodromal. (2) Actual. (1) Prodromal Symptoms. — The first pro-