GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 404 nervous mechanism of the stomach occurs in utero, causing antagonistic action of the muscles of tlie stomach witli spasmodic contraction, and so hypertrophy of the pylorus. As a result of the obstruction at the pylorus the muscular wall of the stomach, and sometimes also of the ceso- phagus, shows considerable hypertrophy, and sometimes there is considerable dilatation of the stomach. Diagnosis.—A history of persistent vomiting associated with constipation in an infant under six months of age should always arouse a suspicion that there may be congenital hyper- trophy of the pylorus, and where the vomiting resists all treatment, and is associated with visible peristalsis of the stomach, and a palpable tumour in the position of the pylorus, the diagnosis is certain. Before these signs have become evident the condition may be mistaken for simple gastric catarrh; this, however, is more often associated with diarrhoea, and the vomiting can usually be referred to some obvious fault in diet, and is more influenced by treat- ment. It must be remembered that regurgita- tion of food is quite common and physiological in healthy infants during the first few weeks of life, any over-distension of the stomach being thus provided against. From congenital stenosis of the pylorus with- out hypertrophy, diagnosis is impossible unless a palpable enlargement of the pylorus is detected. Stenosis of the upper part of the duodenum may also closely simulate this condition. Prognosis. — There is increasing evidence to show that congenital hypertrophy of the pylorus is not always fatal, and in one case which recovered and died nearly a year later of broncho - pneumonia, the hypertrophy of the pylorus could still be demonstrated (F. E. Batten). In most cases, however, it proves fatal. In nineteen cases in which the age at death was recorded, the average age was 9i weeks at death, the earliest was twenty-one days, the latest nearly five months. The interval between the onset of symptoms and the fatal ending varies from eighteen days up to twelve weeks. Treatment.—The most valuable method of treatment is feeding by stomach-tube through the nose or mouth. In several cases this has produced considerable temporary improvement, and in one case a spontaneous recovery seemed to follow the improvement started hy nasal feeding. Drugs are of some value when gastric catarrh is present as a complication; in such cases sodium bicarbonate, with a minute dose of aqua laurocerasi, may be useful, or the stomach may be washed out with a weak alkaline solu- tion. Whei-e dilatation is considerable and the food collects in the stomach, this should be washed out daily. Careful dieting must not be neglected, for the vomiting is certainly influenced to some extent by the food; it is important, therefore, to select such food as is likely to prove least irritating to the stomach ; for this purjDose it may be wise to peptonise the milk, or to use whey with or without cream {vide " Infant Feeding "). The question of surgical treatment naturally arises, but at present there is not sufficient experience to show how far it may be of value. It has been tried at least three times—twice with rapidly fatal result, once with a favourable resvilt at the age of eight weeks (Abel). It is obvious that such a severe operation as gastro- entei'ostomy, or any of the procedures which would be necessary to relieve the obstruction, cannot be otherwise than extremely risky at so tender an age and in so feeble a state. For the diagnosis can hardly be made with certainty until some weeks have elapsed since the onset of vomiting, and by that time the infant is in poor condition for such an operation. Moreover, as it seems now quite certain that cases have recovered without operation, it may be said without hesitation that the risk of surgical interference should never be undertaken until a fair trial has been given to medical treatment, especially to the method of feeding by stomach- tube. Gastritis.—Gastritis is an occasional result of acute dyspepsia in infancy. As the result of irritant poisons it may, of course, occur at any age. Memhiunous gastritis is found occasionally in children, usually with diphtheria. The mem- brane is situated near the cardiac orifice, and is associated sometimes with membrane in the lower part of the oesophagus, and almost always with severe pharyngeal dij^htheria. The writer has also found membranous gastritis associated with membranous colitis in an infant with severe broncho-pneumonia where there was no evidence of diphtheria. It has also been seen in tuber- culosis. The condition cannot be recognised during life, but has been associated usually with severe vomiting. Gastric ulcer is very rare in childhood. It occurs most often in new-born infants probably as a result of congestion owing to the circulatory changes at birth. It is then sometimes solitary, but perhaps more often occurs as multiple ei'osions. Such ulceration either in the stomach or in the duodenum may give rise to fatal hsematemesis and melsena; these symptoms- occur almost always before the tenth day, usually within the first forty-eight hours of life (vide " New-born Infant "). Follicular erosions have been found in severe cases of gastric catarrh in infancy, sometimes also in association with specific fevers, and some- times with severe burns (S. Fenwick). They very rarely give rise to any special symptoms ; severe haimorrhage has, however, occurred. Perforating gastric ulcer, exactly similar to that