83 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN well established : embryos of 1 mm. are about 12 days old; of 2-5 mm., about 14 days; of 4-5 mm., about 19 days; of 7 mm., about 26 days; of 11 "5 mm., about 34 days; and of 17 mm., about 41 days. After forty-one days the embryo becomes the neofojtus. which are so complex as to baffle the keenest obsei'ver. We cannot trace out the processes in their intricacy, but we can at least recognise the results. Through the growth of the chorionic vesicle and its contents, the decidua reflexa comes in Fig. 9.—Guicciardi'.s Early Gestation Sac. Section showing—cs., caduca or decidua serotina, at one pole of ovum ; cp., decidua vera ; IT., caduca or decidua reflexa ; v., chorionic villi; Ich., tract in which the chorion comes into relation with the decidua, a zone of amorphous tissue alone intervening; rh.-ch., chorionic ei)ithelium and connective tissue; ajn., amnios; E., embryo; Ul'., umbilical vesicle, (ride Aiinali di osti'tricia, xxiv. p. 170, Iii0i2.) The Embryo in the Third Week after Impregnation Several embryos of the third week are avail- able to enable the embryologist to construct his picture of developmental events at this period ; but, as it happens, there is a scarcity of material showing the state of the decidual membranes at this time. It is truly an hehdomaJa mirnbills for the embryo, this third week after impregna- tion, for during it there is a marvellous difTeren- tiation of organs and tissues taking place, and a transformation scene going on, the details of [ contact with a larger surface of the decidua vera, and the potential space between these two membranes is diminished ; for at the beginning of this third week the chorionic vesicle measures 14 mm. by 12 mm. by 5 mm. (Leopold's fifteen 1 day specimen). Decidual cells are seen in the reflexa as well as in the serotina, and in the lower and middle part of the former there are enormously distended capillaries. In the com- pact layer of the serotina are likewise numerous dilated capillaries. The outer ends of the ; glands are very narrow, appearing as slits. In j the spongy layer the gland spaces are irregular,