23 ECTOPIC GESTATION, RECENT VIEWS 2[ed. Journ. i. p. 1272, 1906). Ectopic preg- nancy may also occur in association with fibro- niyomata of the uterus, and F. E. Taylor has collected a small number of observations, includ- ing one reported for the first time {Ibid. ix. 412, 1906). Notwithstanding all our operative inter- ference, extra-uterine foetuses are still occasion- ally expelled in fragments by the rectum; but it should be added that this is now rare in civilised countries. I have in my possession some foetal bones which a patient passed with almost no suffering from the bowel ; she thought they were chicken bones, and supposed she had carelessly swallowed them! Apparently even a tubal pregnancy may go to the full term (Amos, Ztschr. f. GeJyurtsh. ■u. Gyndk. liv. p. 169), and sometimes the children of extra- uterine pregnancies may survive, although they are often malformed (F. von Winckel, JJher die Mis&hild%uwien von ehtojyiscli entwickelten Friich- ten, 1902). Simultaneous intra-uterine and extra-uterine gestation has been observed, twins may be found in the tube, and a double monster has been recorded in a tubal sac. No great change has taken place in the treat- ment of ectopic gestation. Abdominal section is generally regarded as indicated so soon as the diagnosis is made. The most difficult cases are those at mid-term, when it becomes a matter of doubt as to whether the placenta should be removed at once or left in situ, for a few days or altogether ; such cases are generally meso- metric, and it is a good rule that if the placenta is situated above the foetus it should be removed, while if it is below it may be left (but if it be left, and suppuration occur in it, the sac will reqinre to be reopened). Ectopion. See Ectopia. EctrO.—In compound words ectro (from the ( Jr. eKTp<ji)Tt.K('>^, relating to aboi'tion) carries with it the significance of defect or failure; ectrodactyly, for instance, is a state of defective development of the fingers and toes, one or more of which may be absent; ectromely is a defective or malformed state of one or more limbs ; and ectrotic means abortifacient. See Pregnancy, Intra-Utekine Diseases {Congeni- tal Amputations); Teratology [Malformations of the Limbs). Ectropion.—Ectropion (Gr. ek, out, and Tpe-eiv, to turn) is a condition of eversion or outward turning of some part, such as an eye- lid, and it may be congenital (e.r/. in fatal ichthyosis) or acquired (from paralysis, spasm, cicatricial contraction, etc.) See Eyelids, Affections of (Defects in position and connec- tion) ; Leprosy (Symjjtoms of Lepra Mactdo- anoistketica); MouTH, Diseases of (Deformities of the Lips). EctylotiC.—Ha,ving the power of remov- ing warts (Gr. eV-, out, and n'Aos, a swelling or callus). See Warts or Verruc.e. EctysterocyesiS. See Ectopic Ges- tation. Eczema. Part I. General Pathology and Therapeu- tics— General Considerations . . .23 The Lesions of Eczema.... 25 Etiology and Classifi.cation ... 26 II isto-pathology ..... 30 Principles of Treatment . .31 Part II. Clinical Types of Eczema— Accidental ...... 34 Intrinsic ...... 34 Mycosiform . . . . .35 Seal}), Face, etc. .... 36 Trimk 39 Uptper Extremity .... 40 Genitcd. Region . . .41 Anus, Penis . . . . .41 Loiver Extremity .... 42 Nails . . . . .43 See also Alopecia (Varieties, Premature); Children, Development and Clinical Exami- nation OF (Symptoms of Teething); Conjunc- tiva, Diseases of (Exantkematous Conjunctivitis); Dermatitis Rbpens (Diagnosis) ; Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenat^a (Diagnosis); Diabetes Mellitus (Complications, The Skin); Erythema (Localised); Foot and Mouth Disease (Eczema Contagiosa); Gout (Irregular Gout, Cutaneous System); Herpes (Diagnosis); Hydropathy (Affections of the Skin); Hypnotism (Skin Dis- eases) ; Nails, Affections of (Diseases of the Skin, Eczema); Nerves, Peripheral (Injimes, Symptoms); Otorrhcea (Causes); Pruritus (Consecpiences); Psoriasis (Diagnosis); Puer- perium. Pathology (Wipples, Eczema : Areola, Eczema); Scrotum, Diseases (Eczema.) ; Skin, Bacteriology of ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Dhobie Itch); Trades, Dangerous (Flax and Linen) ; Umbilicus, Diseases of (Eczema); X- Rays (Treatment of Eczema). Part I. General Pathology and Therapeutics General Considerations.—Before we can pro- ceed to determine even approximately the nature of eczema, we must consider its intimate con- nection with the skin as a free surface tissue. So close is this connection that we might briefly describe eczema as an inflammation of position. The skin is specially liable to injury from its great extension in space, and from its haliitual contact with the unceasing perturbations of the outside world. From our present point of view the external surface of the body is essentially a double net, or sponge, of fine blood-vessels and delicate, sensitive nerve-threads surrounded and shielded fi'om these external perturbations by