EPHEMERAL FEVER 136 protected from draughts. The room may be darkened. The patient should be kept as quiet as possible. A milk diet is suitable in most cases. Nourishment should be administered at short intervals in small quantities at a time. If thirst is present, fluids {e.g. bai'ley water) may be allowed freely. A laxative should be ordered at the onset, and a diaphoretic mixture during the course of the fever. Tepid sponging of the face and the extremities, or sponging with vinegar and water, or eau de Cologne and water, will often diminish restlessness and favour sleep. When the fever subsides, the patient should not be allowed to resume his occupation too soon. In most cases tonics are desirable during convalescence. Ephia,lteS.—Nightmare (Gr. (ttl, upon, and aXXojj.ai, I leap). EphidrOSiS.—Sweating or any disease accompanied by sweating. Epiag^nathuS. — The monstrosity in which there is absence of the upper jaw {Taruffi); it differs in nature from epignathus (q.v.). Epiblast. —The outer layer of the blasto- derm. See Embryology ; Fcetus and Ovum, Development of. Epicanthis or Epicanthus. — A malformation in wliich a fold of skin stretches across the inner end of the interpalpebral fissure and obscures the inner canthus. See Eyelids, Affections of (Congenital Defects); Strabismus (Apparent, Epicanthus). Epicarin.—A product of the action of beta-naphthol on creasotic acid, used (as solu- tion or ointment) in psoriasis, eczema, and scabies. EpiCOinuS.—A form of double monster, in which an accessory head is attached to the top of the head of the autosite (St. Hiiaire). EpiCOndylalgria.—Pain in the region of the external condyle of the humerus, probably situated in the muscles and tendons. Epicranium.—The soft parts covering the cranium ; the scalp. EpidauruS. See Balneology (Greece). Epidemic.—Diseases which come to one part of the world from another and usually distant part, and which affect a great many people at the same time, are usually said to be epidemic. Instances are enumerated in the article on Epidemiology (q.v.). See also Dropsy, Epidemic ; Dysentery (Epidemic Gangrenous Rectitis) ; Haemoglobinuria ; Herpes (" epi- demic "); Insanity, Etiology of (Epidemicity); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal ; Mumps or Epidemic Parotitis ; Stomatitis (A2)hthous). Epidemioiogry' 1. Introductory— Definitions, Endemicity, Sporadicity, Specificity, Receptivity . . . 136 2. Methods of Study. Classification . 139 3. General Epidemiology— (a) Epidemic Movements— (1) Secular Mutations . . 141 (2) Multiannual Fluctuations . 143 (3) Epidemic or Short-period Waves . . . .146 (4) Seasonal Fluctuations . 147 (5) Oscillations . . .150 (6) The Laiv of Anticipation . .150 (c) Associations and Antagonisms of Epidemic Diseases . . .151 (d) The Evolution and Involution of Epidemics . . . .152 Introductory Definition, Endemicity, Sporadicity, Specificity, Receptivity The term ejyidemic was originally applied to a disease attacking a number of persons at the same time or in close succession. Thus, Paulus /Egineta says, " We call those diseases epidemic and common that attack many persons together," and the word is often used in this sense at the present day. Haeser in his History of Epidemic Diseases treats of ergotism and scurvy as epi- demic maladies. Ergotism, as we know, is an intoxication, and scurvy a disease of malnu- trition ; yet, as both frequently affect large numbers at the same time, they may properly enough be classed as diseases, Itti, upon, SJy/xos, the people. Hecker, in the same way, includes the dancinti mania of the Middle Ages along with the Black Death among epidemic diseases, because, although psychical in its nature, it spread by a sort of moral contagion and became widely prevalent. In common life we speak of an epidemy of suicide, of sunstroke, of lead colic, and so forth, meaning no more than that these diseases are unusually common at a given time, and without regard to their nature or causation. Although this use of the word is etymologi- cally correct and sanctioned by the best autho- rities, we shall, in this article, make a distinc- tion between common and epidemic diseases— restricting the term epidemic to that group of infective or micro-parasitic maladies which has the common property of spreading from time to time in a community. This property of attacking larger or smaller numbers of a population simul- taneously or in succession implies a common origin of the units constituting an epidemy. The individual cases must be connected either by filiation, the one from the other, or by derivation from a common source of infection.