ECZEMA 31 later researches he states that he is able to con- firm Colomiatti's observations. Since then no further evidence has been adduced, although competent authorities have searched. The in- ference to be drawn seems to be that no structural lesion of cutaneous nerves underlie the develop- ment of eczema, but that in certain rare instances the nerve-fibres may be involved in the inflammatory process. The Principles of the Treatment of Eczema I. Eczema is cured by Local Expurgation.— All successful treatment of eczema is based on this method, and the more penetrating our insight into the working of this j^i'ocess the more successful are our efforts likely to be. When our methods of treatment fit into the natural process of recovery, the result is a quicker cure; but when there is no sort of harmony between them, the consequence of our interference is a delayed cure or an aggravation of the original disorder. Considering the prime importance of this principle, it is well worth our close attention. It has already' been pointed out that the essential act of eczema is the dis- charge of plasma into the epithelium, with the subsequent encapsulation and casting off' of the injured portion. This is the whole intent of eczema as a pathological process. Striking- proof of this is afforded by the fact that the subsidence of the inflammatory symptoms begins with the growth of a horny impervious mem- brane under the oedematous and infective portion of the epithelium, thereby completely excluding the injured from the uninjured portion of the epithelium. As long as the infected oedematous portion of the surface remains organically con- nected with the rest of the epithelium, so long will the eczema persist. If nature could, un- aided, effect a sjiontaneous cure, it would be by the throwing off of this injured portion, and if we have any therapeutic control over eczema it is only so far as we can aid this expurgation. Hence the treatment of eczema resolves itself into a definite piece of work in dynamics. It is a pertinent question why the dynamics of nature are so defective as regards the spontaneous cui-e of eczema. In other words, what are the causes of the chronicity of eczema ? Briefly, I believe the explanation to be that when vaso-motor control is once lost, and the surface has become soft and oedematous, that the perpetual irrita- tion of the outside world prevents the surface tissues from returning to their noi-mal state of health. ]5ut, further, there is a strong tendency in the skin to stagnation outside the blood- currents of the cutis. Thus leucocytes and micro-organisms carried from the blood-stream into the epithelium degenerate and die; and plasma in the same situation tends to stagnate, as is frequently observed in the length of time that epithelial vesicles may remain unchanged. Since the success of our treatment depends on the harmony between it and the spontaneous curative methods of nature, it is of prime im- portance to the medical adviser to note precisely the state in which the eczema is at the moment when he is called to interfere. He will find the eczema to be in one of the following states :— 1. The plasma exudes at high pressure; the surface is moist and defective in covering. In this state all we can do is to anticipate the next stage of drying or desiccation. We can render valuable service in this direction by the employ- ment of astringent lotions, such as weak solu- tions of silver nitrate in distilled water. If the tissues are excessively a^lematous, and the dis- charge thick and purulent, then desiccation is better attained by the continuous application of Lassar's paste with 1 or 2 per cent of salicylic acid {see p. 33). 2. The plasma does not exude at higlt pressure, hut the surface is oedematous, while the drying process, evidenced by sca.bbing, has begun. Here again our remedies must be chosen with a view to aid the drying process. Care must be taken to remove all scabs, as they are infective and contain in-itative organisms. An antiseptic but non-stimulating porous ointment should be selected. Salicylic acid not exceeding 2 per cent is perhaps the safest and best of remedies in this stage. 3. All active exudation has ceased, a new sur- face has formed, but the whole of the surface tissues are soft and still contain an excess of lymph and plasma. As this first formation of a new surface is never stable or permanent, we can again anticipate nature by removing it. This may be effected by the employment of a gentle irritant. Since it is advisable not to increase the heat of the part, porous ointments are better than simple fatty ones. In many cases calamine-zinc lotion, with the addition of 1 per cent boric acid, or liquor picis carbonis, answers admirably. It has the great advantage of being drying, protective, and stimulating at the same time. 4. There is no exudation; the surface is dry and rough, the process of expurgation having been arrested. It is now that the real work has to be done, namely, the separation of the injured surface,[and the dispersion of the stagnant plasma and cells. To effect this we must employ irri- tants, and often in strong proportions, such as sulphur and tar (Tjj. or more to gj.), or resorciii, carbolic acid, salts of mercury, chiysarobin, pyrogallol. Such agents directly kill the surface epidermis, and do so'more quickly than the micro-organisms that may be contained in it (Sabouraud). This sudden killing of the surface cells is followed by rapid exfoliation and forma- tion of a healthier surface beneath. In chronic cases we require to repeat this exfoliative pro- cess, it may be several times, before we succeed in dispersing the excess of lymph, and in obtain-