448 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF vaginal wall or on the cervix to indicate the double nature of the canal. The septum varies much in thickness ; it may be absent above and present below [vagina septa infra), or present above and absent below {vagina septa supra); and it may be perforated in several places. Generally the anomaly is associated with one or other of the forms of double uterus ; there may also be a double hymen, but a double vulva is most uncommon, and probably belongs to quite another group of anomalies (double terata). In cases of labour Avith vagina septa the septum may cause delay and require to be divided, but it may also be pushed aside, and may indeed pass undetected. One of the canals may be imperforate, and mucus may collect in it, giving rise to the erroneous diagnosis of vaginal cyst : when it is associated with a functionating uterus, blood will accumulate in it {xinilateral hwmatocolpos) and require evacuation. Unilateral vagina is practically always a concomitant of uterus unicornis. The canal is narrow, and lies somewhat to one side of the middle line; it in fact represents one of the Miillerian ducts, the other having aborted. «» Complete absence of the vagina {flefectus vaginai) is very rare, and is nearly always associated with advanced teratological conditions, such as sympodia, but incomplete development of the vagina is comparatively common. To this con- dition the name vagina 7-udimentaria has been given, but a better term is atresia vagina;. There is a complete or an incomplete imper- forate condition of the vagina; simply a mus- cular cord may lie between the rectum and the bladder, or the canal may be present above and absent below, or vice versa, or membranous diaphragms may exist in it at various levels. These anomalies are due to imperfect canalisa- tion of the fused Miillerian ducts ; but when the lower or vestibular part of the vagina alone is absent it may be supposed that the fault lies, as Hart suggests, in the Wolffian bulbs which normally form the lining of this portion of the canal. The uterus and ovaries may also be imperfectly developed ; at the same time this cannot be counted upon, for not infrequently the internal genitals are functionating, and then the condition known as JuEmatometra (retention of menstrual blood in the uterus) is produced. Clinically, vaginal atresia does not attract notice till puberty, when it is found that men- struation is not established. There may be, however, every month a feeling of weight in the pelvis along with headache, swelling of the mammae, and epistaxis; and a physical examination may then reveal the absence of the vaginal canal, or (in the less-marked varieties) the presence of a bulging membrane at the vulva. Probably many of the cases of so-called imperforate hymen are really instances of im- jjerforation of the lower part of the vagina, and sometimes the hymen can be seen on the outer aspect of the bulging membrane. By means of rectal touch, aided by a sound in the bladder, the amount of vaginal imperforation can be made out, and the chances of successful stirgical interference gaiiged. It may become necessary to operate, either to allow the escape of retained menstrual blood or to establish an artificial vagina for coition. In the least-marked degree a crucial incision through the membranous obstacle will suffice to set the discharge free; strict surgical cleanliness must, of course, be observed, and means taken to prevent subse- quent contraction of the canal. In the more extensive imperforations it becomes very diffi- cult to reach the uterus, and dissection upwai'ds between the bladder and the rectum may be tedious and ultimately futile; the opening of the abdomen in order to operate from the peri- toneal aspect has been scarcely more successful. Recently, however, it has been proposed to make straight for the pouch of Douglas, and not to attempt to avoid it, to open into it as in the operation of posterior colpotomy, and then by palpation inside the pelvis to determine whether the uterus and ovaries are healthy. In the presence of functionating internal genitals it will then be well to attempt to form a vagina by invaginating the vulvar mucous membrane, and uniting it with the cervix uteri, and the open- ing into the pouch of Douglas can then be closed. When the internal organs are not active the gynecologist will be well advised to leave things alone; the demand for an artificial vagina must come from the patient herself, and all the dangers of the operation ought to be pointed out to her and to her husband. By lateral atresia vaginai is meant an imperforate condition of one-half of a septate vagina; blood may accumulate in it and give rise to lateral hceviatocoljMs; suppuration also may take place in it, lateral pyocolpos ; in either case the treat- ment is incision of the sac, with, sometimes, excision of the sac-wall. Malformations of the vulva do not all admit of so simple an explanation as the anomalies of the uterus and vagina, for they are due to defective development of the posterior end of the embryo, a part whose normal development is not as yet fully understood. The presence of two vulvar apertures (one of the rarest of mal- formations) probably indicates a minor degree of posterior duplicity of the trunk. Atresia vulva superjicialis is not a malformation in the true sense of the term, for it is doubtless due to adhesion of the labia produced by foetal or in- fantile vvdvitis. It is easily corrected; some- times simple traction of the labia serves to separate them ; in other cases it is necessary to pass a director in at the anterior opening (in the neighbourhood of the meatus urinarius) and cut down upon it. Vulvar anus {atresia ani vaginalis) is a name given to a condition in