FRACTURES 343 afterwards as to whether it is complete or in- complete. The complete fractures are further subdivided into sing-le or multiple ; simple or comminuted ; oblique, transverse, spiral, or longitudinal; impacted or unimpacted; in- volvinti' the joint or wholly extra-articular, for upon all these points depends the pro<;nosis. An incomplete fracture is either bent, curved, or indented. It is usually seen in children, the bent or curved variety in the tibia, radius, or ulna of the rickety, and indented fractures in the frontal or j)arietal bones after falls or the application of midwifery forceps. A green- stick fracture is another form of incomplete fracture, in which the bone is bent so that its convex surface is broken without any necessary laceration of the concave surface. It is often seen in the clavicles and in the bones of the forearm of children, and its name is derived from the resemblance wliich it shows to the behaviour of a green twig which has been forcibly bent. Except in the clavicle all green- stick fractures should be straightened before they are put into splints. This is especially necessary in the case of the radius and ulna, where great impairment of pronation may result when the bone is allowed to heal in a bent position. In some cases a bone may be broken and its ends may be comminuted without rupture of the periosteum, a condition seen in children suffering from that form of scurvy known as " Barlow's disease." Fissured frac- tures, such as occur in the skull, the ilium, and the lower jaw, are also instances of in- complete fractures. The difficulties connected with incomplete fractures are rather those of diagnosis than of prognosis or treatment. Traumatic separation of the epiphyses is only now beginning to receive the attention which the importance of the subject merits. Fractures and separated epiphyses wei'e formerly considered identical injuries, and were treated in the same manner, luit surgeons now recognise that the two forms of injury are distinct, that tliey are attended by separate signs and sequela^, and that they require different treatment. Traumatic separation of the epiphyses is most conmion between the ages of eleven and eighteen years, for in young children the epiphyses are so cartilaginous and elastic as to escape injury, whilst later in life they become fused with the shaft of the bone. The separa- tion of the epiphysis is either complete or incom- plete. When it is complete the line of separation extends through the epiphyseal line in its whole extent, or it involves a part of the shaft of the bone. Partial detachment or juxta- epiphyseal strain is apt to be overlooked or treated merely as a sprain. It is often difticult to make an accurate diagnosis when the displacement is slight, but in well-marked cases miusual mobility at the seat of an ejiiphysis, local pain, with swelling and ecchymosis, aflbrd a clue to the nature of the injury when the age of the patient is taken into account. If crepitus can be obtained it differs from that occurring in fracture because it is " muffled," that is to say, it lacks the crispness of bone moving upon bone, for it is caused by cartilage rubbing against the uneven end of the diaphysis. The Idelicate tissues of children lend themselves especially to the use of the X-rays, either by screen or plate, in the elucidation of these injuries. The prognosis depends partly upon the nature of the injury and partly upon the treatment. Simple separations in healthy persons heal as readily and with less deformity than simple fractures, but in unhealthy persons abscess, periostitis, and tubercular disease are not un- common. The especial dangers to be feared are paralysis and gangrene due to pressure of the displaced epiphysis ; the more remote dangers are permanent deformity, impaired movement in the neighbouring joints, and either partial or complete arrest of growth in the limb. Infective osteomyelitis is sequel of compound separation of an epiphysis, though it may also occur in the simple forms. The treatment of a separated epiphysis con- sists in immediate replacement in the compound as well as the simple forms of injury. When the displacement is considerable an anaesthetic must be administered, and reduction should be brought about as methodically as in a case of dislocation. The injured portion of the limb is then encased in some form of moulded splint, and the circulation through the part is carefully watched for a day or two. Massage is applied earlier than in fractures, and in a simple case may be commenced on the tenth day. Every complete fracture is associated with a certain amount of displacement of the two ends of the broken bone, the amount depending upon the position of the injury and the con- dition of the ends of the bone. It is either sliding or angular, simple or twisted, in un- impacted fractures, and it is part of the art of surgery to render the displacement as slight as possible, and to keep the ends of the bone in the most accurate apposition initil the injured part is able to repair itself. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of fractures has greatly improved since the use of the Rontgen rays has enabled the surgeon to view the frag- ments on the screen and to obtain skiagraphs of the broken bones, because many injuries which were formerly recognised with the greatest difficulty ai-e now rendered perfectly clear. In large towns, in public institutions, and in ]jrivate practice, it is advisable to skiagraph every case of fracture a few days after the bone has been set, in order to verify the accuracy of the posi- tion. The negative can be obtained without moving the limb and in ordinary daylight, but it is necessary to use a wooden or plaster splint.