f:mbryology, human 73 tion of Comparative Anatomy, or, to put it in more modern terms, that ontogeny gives a con- densed phylogeny, or that there is a reminiscent projection of phylogeny into ontogeny. Before, however, we discuss the correctness of this con- chision, let us see that we have a clear idea of what is intended by this general principle, this "great biogenetic law." Henry Drummond^ gave a picturesque and vivid description of what he understood and read into it. He wrote : " The human embryo is a subtle phantasmagoria, a living theatre in which a weird transformation scene is being- enacted, and in which countless strange and uncouth characters take part. Some of these characters are well known to Science, some are strangers. As the embryo unfolds, one by one these animal actors come upon the stage, file past in phantom-like procession, throw off their drapery, and dissolve away into something else. Yet as they vanish, each leaves behind a vital portion of itself, some original and characteristic memorial, something itself has made or won, that perhaps it alone could make or win — a bone, a muscle, a ganglion, or a tooth—to be the inheritance of the race." So Drummond pictured the human embryo " wandering among the ghosts of departed types"; in making a man, " Nature introduced the framework of these earlier types, displaying each crude pat- tern by itself before incorporating it in the finished work." " Every creature that lives climbs up its own genealogical tree before it reaches its mature condition." This law, which as we shall see is not so really a law as has been thought, may be stated in another way. Appai'ently the framework of the body is not laid down once for all, but is rather constructed in portions, and even in over- lapping portions, so to speak. One part of the framework may be replaced in whole or in part by a new substructure often of a type quite different from that which has preceded it. Readjustment, adaptation, alteration, and varia- tion are processes constantly at work in the life of the embryo ; it is by reorganisation that order is brought out of the seemiiag chaos of the results of blastodermic activity. If one were to imagine a builder constructing a palace by first erecting the scaffolding for a cottage; by then, after building operations had only just been commenced, replacing this by the scaffold- ing for a villa; ancl that again by the frame- work necessary for a mansion ; and then, finally rearranging, and as far as j^ossible utilising, all the materials for the formation of the palace; one would have an idea, albeit an imperfect one, of the character and complexitj' of onto- genesis. Tlie comparison is, of course, almost ludicrously inadequate, for it gives no indication of the marvellous manner in which in organo- genesis all the materials of the temporary 1 Dnimiuoml, H., The A seen I of Man, p. 87, 1894. scaffoldings are made use of in the construction of the permanent edifice, are worked into it so exactly as to be indistinguishable from each other in it. Only here and there in the body, in the appendix vermiformis, the fossa ovalis, and the ductus arteriosus, are to be seen the traces of some parts of the earlier formations which have either been incompletely utilised or have been imperfectly replaced by the later 2)roductions. This same general principle of ontogenesis may be set forth in yet another way, as evolu- tion by atrophy. In order that a new scaffold- ing may be set up it is necessary that the former atrophy; if a new jslan of construction is to be followed it is needful that the old plan be abandoned. To quote from Ernest Mehnert - (as rendered by J. Arthur Thomson ^), involu- tion and evolution go hand in hand. The ovum develops, the polar bodies degenerate; the blastoderm develops, the merocytes degenerate ; the head grows and the tail dwindles; the higher nerve centres of the mammalian brain increase and the occipital region diminishes; the metanephros comes and the pronephros goes ; the backbone strengthens and the noto- chord disappears; and so on throughout a con- tinual neci'obiosis. In whatever way it may be stated, there can be no doubt that in ontogenesis there is very evidently this principle of reaching the final result by ways which appear to be roundabout and by scaffoldings that are temporary. When, however, the attempt is made to find a constant and determining rule or law dominating the ontogenetic detours and the developmental scaffoldings, difficulties at once emerge; the explanation that the embryo of the higher verte- brates jjasses rapidly through a series of stages which represent the permanent forms of embryos lower in the zoological scale breaks down at once upon close examination, and as yet no other satisfactory hypothesis has arisen to take its place. But this fact demands a separate para- graph, and it will be best to embody it in a general principle, the seventh. Severith, then, it may be affirmed that onto- geny does not give a short recapitulation of evolutionary progress; it is not an epitomised phylogeny. This is seen in the fact that the time at which an organ appears in individual development does not always indicate the his- torical or phylogenetic age of that structure. If there is, then, a recapitulation in ontogenesis it is one in which Nature makes mistakes ; or, to express the matter in more scientific language, there are " time-displacements " in development. For instance, the heart is regarded as a secondary differentiation (due to functional adaptation) of - Melmert, E., Biomeelianik ersclilossen itiis dcin Prin- cipe der Orgunoijenesc, Jena, 1898. ^ Thomson, J. A., " Mehnert's Prinoiiiles of Develop- Katin-al Science. .\iv. 385, 1899.