283 FILAEIASIS supposing that F. loa (see below) may constitute the parental form. No pathogenetic effects due to tliese blood-filaria; have yet been observed. VI. Filaria medinensis, Velsch. Syn. : Vena medinensis, Velsch, 1674; Di-acimculus Fer- sarum, Kammfer, 1694; F. medinensis, Gmelin, 1789 (Guinea-worm, Ver de Medine, Dragon- neau).—This worm has been known from ancient times in Arabia, Persia, and other countries, the disease produced being termed " Dracon- tiusis " by Galen. It occurs chiefly as a parasite in man, being situated usually in the sub- cutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue. It has also been found in animals (Railliet). According to Avenzoar and Marchais it often affects cattle. In India it has been found in the horse (Clarkson, Fleming, ]5urke), also in the dog in Buenos Ayres and Cui-a^-ao (Doerssel), India (Sniyttan, Forbes, Griffith), Egypt (Clot Bey, Plot, Innes), in the cheetah {Filaria wthio- 'pica, Valenciennes, 1856), Canis liqMster, jackal, and wild-cat (Railliet). In some places at certain seasons nearly 50 per cent of the popu- lation may be affected. Usually but a single worm inhabits the host, but when the worm is prevalent two to four may be found, or excep- tionally as many as thirty to fifty. Morphology.—The adult female ^ {see Plate, p. 275) may attain to a great length in the body (if the host, measuring 1-6 feet, though on an average it has a length of 3 feet. Railliet states that it may even attain a length of 4 metres. The worm is of a white or yellowish colour, of iniiform diameter (0'5-l-7 mm.) throughout. It tapers slightly towards the head, which is trun- cated. The mouth is terminal, and is surrounded by two large and six small papilL'e. The body exhibits faint transverse striation. The body of the worm is firm and very extensile, having, according to Manson, a breaking strain of about 11 oz. The cuticula is thick, being formed of about six layers, the muscular system being- similar to that of Ascaris. Tlie tail is terminated by a sharply bent hook about 1 mm. or more in length. The alimentai-y canal consists of a fine tube running from the triangular mouth to near the tail, but it does not open externally in the gravid worm, though an anal orifice exists in the young parasite. In the mature worm the vulval opening and vagina are likewise obliter- ated by the enormously developed uterus, which forms a continuous tube, filled with millions of free embryos, and running from head to tail. The embryos, which in utero usually lie curled up on themselves, measure 0'50-0'75 /x by ' Charles (1892) twice observeil what appears to be copulation (sec Plate) in worms removed from the sub- peritoneal connective tissue. Nobody else has observed the male. Neumann (1895). from his observations on F. iJahomensis (parasitic on Pi/thon natalc.nsh), believes tluat Charles must have actually seen the male F. medinensis, and that the latter is also parasitic like the male F. dalwmtnsis. 15-25 fx. They are slightly flattened dorso- ventrally, transversely striated, and provided with a finely tapering tail which measures about two-fifths of their whole length. They have a rudimentary alimentary canal, and carry two small lateral sack-like structures at the base of the tail. They swim actively, and may live for days in muddy water or damp soil, whilst they are capable of withstanding desiccation for from six to twenty-four hours. To quote Manson (1897) :— " When the parent Dracunculus approaches maturity, she begins to move slowly through the tissues, head first, and in 90 per cent of the cases in a downward direction, until her head arrives at foot, ankle, or leg. The head then drills a small hole in the derma, sparing the epidermis. Over this hole a bulla forms, prob- ably induced by the irritating properties of some secretion or discharge of the worm. In the course of a few days the liulla ruptures, dis- closing a small superficial ulcer with the afore- mentioned minute hole in its centre. Sometimes, on rupture of the bulla, though this is by no means usual, the head of the worm is seen pro- truding from this little hole. If now, whether the head protrude or not, a little cold water be poured on the limb in the vicinity of the dra- cuncular ulcer, a minute quantity of a wdiitish fluid is presently seen to well up from the central hole; or a small tube, at first pellucid, then white, is seen to be slowly extruded from this hole to the extent of about half an inch or even more. Suddenly this little tube ruptures, its contents being spilt over the ulcer. The whitish fluid alluded to is part of the uterine contents, and the little tube is part of the uterus itself, which the worm, stimulated hy the water poured on the limb, forces as a prolapsus through her mouth. That this is what takes place is proved by a microscopic examination of the fluid re- ferred to, which consists of a mass of seething, wriggling, Dracunculus embryos. This dis- charge, with or without visible prolapsus of the uterus, is repeated at short intervals. In the course of about a fortnight the worm has extruded and emptied her entire uterus. She is now ready to quit her host, and often she will do so spontaneously. Generally she can be readily removed by gentle and intermittent traction renewed at intervals during a day or two. " The reason why instinct leads the Dracun- culus to descend to the foot or ankle before beginning to empty her uterus is obvious. These are just the parts of the body which in a warm climate, and in natural conditions of life, are most likely to be brought in contact with water. The reason why the extrusion of embryos is provoked by contact of the limb with water is equally obvious, for the next step in the development of the embryo is made in this element. It is true that the Dracunculus some-