304 FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL defined, being in all jirobability a mixture of pseudomiicin and other proteids. Serum albumin, serum globulin, mucin, and fibrinogen may be present, but the last mentioned usually onlj' in traces. About 1 per cent salts and 0'5 per cent extractives and fats also occur, and in addition a small quantity of cholesterin. The most important suspended bodies are red and white blood corpuscles, epithelial cells, some having undergone fatty, others colloidal degeneration, crystals of fatty acids,- and cholesterin. The fluid in 'parovarian cysts is of low specific gravity, visually very pale in colour, poor in solids, and apparently never containing pseudo- mucin. The constituents of the dermoid cysts are, as one would expect, of the most varied description. Cysts occurring in other parts are usually characterised by the occurrence of the special constituents of the tissues in which they appear. Thus cysts of the pancreas contain the bodies found in the pancreatic juice, and should always be examined for the presence of enzymes. Thus to one portion of the fluid fibrin should be added, and the mixture kept at body temperature for one or two hours, when it should be tested for albumoses and peptones. To another portion starch should be added, and after half an hour's digestion at body temperature the fluid should be tested for dextrins and maltose. It is not necessary to test for the fat-splitting ferment. Cysts of the kidney should be examined for urea, uric acid, and the different forms of renal epi- thelium ; cysts of the mammary gland for the milk constituents; cysts of the salivary ducts for salivary constituents. There is, however, an absolutely distinct form of cyst that requires to be referred to briefly, viz. the hydatid cyst. These vary greatly in size, and hence in the amount and consistence of the fluid which they contain. As a rule the specific gravity is low, l-004-l"012, and usually only a trace of albumin and a comparatively large proportion of salts, especially sodium chloride (0'3-0'5 per cent), are present. These cysts very often contain crystals of htematoidin, and are also frequently stained with decomposed blood pigments. More import- ant than the chemical is the microscopical ex- amination. If the fluid be allowed to stand for some time a granular deposit settles down which should be examined microscopically for the scolices developed from the inner layer of the membrane of the cyst, and also for the ectocyst. The lateral disc-like suckers may be seen with the low or high power, and also the booklets arranged circularly. These also may be seen in the fluid along with threads of the laminated membrane. The laminae of which the membrane is composed can be easily separated by teasing when they are seen to be cross striated. Hydrocele fluid varies in colour, light yellow, brown, or greenish brown. It is of compara- tively high specific gravity, 1-015-1'030, and is thus rich in solids (5-8 per cent). It may co- agulate spontaneously, but as a rule blood plasma or serum or fibrin ferment requires to be added. Very often cholesterin crystals are present. Spermatocele fluid is usually thin, colourless, of low specific gravity (1 "005-1-010), and it coagulates neither spontaneously nor on the addition of fibrin-ferment. The difference in the composition of this fluid from that of hydro- cele is well shown in the following analysis by Hammarsten:— Constituents. Hydrocele fluid. Spermatocele fluid. Water 93-885 98-683 Solids 6-115 1-217 Fibrin .... 0-059 Globulin .... 1-325 0-059 Serum albumin . 3-594 0-182 Ethereal extract 0-402] Sohible salts 0-860 \ 1-076 Insoluble salts . 0-066 J Blister Fluids, Bxdlce of Pemphigus, etc.—In these the fluid is usually of high specific gravity, being rich, the solids often rising to 5 per cent and higher. Cellular elements are often present, the most important being granular leucocytes. The fluid in pemphigus bullte often contains coarse eosinophilous, polymorpho-nuclear leuco- cytes, and it is an interesting fact that in such cases, if artificial blisters be raised, they are found to contain not the coarse eosinophilous leucocytes, but the ordinary finely granular oxyphil white blood corpuscles. {See also " Gout.") Synovial fluid may be increased in various pathological conditions. It is characterised by its viscous consistence, alkaline reaction, and presence of degenerated colls. The body which renders the fluid viscid is in some points similar to mucin, while in others it differs, e.g. it does not contain a carbohydrate radicle. It is un- doubtedly a proteid, and has been termed by Salkowski synovin. The amount of the solids varies greatly, usually being about 3 to 5 per cent. The fluid contained in bursse is very similar to this. Pus consists of a fluid, the serum, in which corpuscles float, and its consistence varies with the relative amounts of these constituents. It may be a thin watery fluid or a thick semi-solid mass, and hence the specific gravity is a variable one. The reaction of fresh pus is alkaline, but may in the early stages of decomposition react acid, becoming again alkaline after more pro- longed decomposition. The serum of pus is, as a rule, light yellow in colour, with a tinge of green or brown in it. It will not coagulate spontaneously or on the addition of fibrinogen, that is to say, it does not contain fibrin-ferment. Its chief constituents are those of the blood