FCETUS AND OVUM. DEVELOPMENT OF 310 travel at the rate of 2 to 7 mm. per minute. In guinea-pigs they have been discovered in tlie cervix uteri fifteen minutes after copulation. No less important is the fact that their vitaUty is also great, for they have been found in a living state in the cervix uteri and in the Fallopian tube of woman nine days after copu- lation (Dtihrssen). It is probable from these considerations that spermatozoa may lie in wait for the ovum for several days, and that on the appearance of the latter in the Fallopian tube fertilisation immediately occurs. This view receives incidental support from the clinical fact that intercourse is more likely to prove fruitful during the few days preceding the expected onset of menstruation. In most animals only one spermatozoon is concerned in the fertiUsation of a single ovum. In abnormal conditions of the ovum, howevei', two or more may enter it {super-fertilisation). This result can be experimentally produced by slightly damaging the ovum by alterations of temperature, or the action of various drugs (Hertwig). In the mouse, as soon as a single spermatozoon has entered it the ovum throws off a double membrane from the periphery of the yelk which prevents the entrance of others (Kollman). The entrance of the spermatozoon excites great disturbance in the yelk, which contracts and becomes irregular in outline. This disturbance soon passes oil', and it is then seen that the tail of the spermatozoon has dis- appeared, dissolved apparently by the yelk. The remaining portion, or head, is now called the male j^ironudeus, gradually it approaches the female pronucleus, and fusion then occurs between the two, resulting in the formation of a single body, henceforth called the segmenta- tion nucleus. The ovum is now fertilised and prepared to enter upon its new career. Migration of the Fertilised Ovum.—By the action of the cilia of the tubal epithelium, lashing from within outwards, the ovum is i. ii. Fig. 2. (Playfair.) carried into the uterine cavity. After much discussion, it has now been established by Hofmeier and Mandel that the cilia of the uterus move in the same direction as those of the tubes, viz. from within outwards. The older view, that those of the uterine epithelium worked in an opposite direction, thus promoting the advance of the spermatozoa, was therefore an error. The time occupied in reaching the uterus is unknown, nor do we know to what stage the segmentation process next to be described has advanced when the fertilised ovum becomes engrafted upon the uterine decidua. No observations have ever been made in the human species upon the process of fertil- isation and segmentation, or the formation of the germinal layers; the following description is based upon observations made on lower animals. Segmentation of the Ovu?n.—After the fusion of the male and female pronuclei a short pause occurs, and the process of segmentation then commences. The segmentation nucleus first shows karyokinetic changes, and then divides into two halves, which retreat towards opposite poles of the ovum, while radial lines appear in the protoplasm around them (Fig. 2, i.). An equatorial line of division is next formed in a plane between the two nuclei, which divides the wliole ovum into two cells. The same changes now occur in each of the new cells (Fig. 2, ii.), and thus by a process of binary division the ovum multiplies into 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, etc. cells. In the mammalia the whole ovum is involved in the segmentation process, and is therefore called holohlastic^ in contradistinction to that of fishes, reptiles, and birds, in which only a portion is involved, the ovum being called meroblastic. In this manner, then, the mammalian ovum is converted into a solid cluster or globe of cells often called the morula or muriform body (Fig. 3, a). In the rabbit (van Beneden) the cells of the muriform body are of two kinds, clear peripheral cells and granular central cells (Fig. 3, b). A crescentic cleft soon forms between the peripheral and central cells, which becomes filled with fluid, and by rapid increase in this fluid the morula increases enormously in size and becomes converted into a globular sac, called the blastodermic vesicle. The original peripheral cells of the morula have been flattened by pressure from within, and form a single layer within the zona pellucida; the central granular cells are found in contact with the outer cells at one pole of the vesicle, but they do not form a continuous layer (Fig. 3, c). The next stage is the formation of the blastoderm. The deep granular cells proliferate and spread out within the outer layer, forming a patch at first circular and afterwards oval in shape; the two layers together form the bilaminar blastoderm., and the oval area of the surface of the blastodermic vesicle where they are found is called the embryonic area (Fig. 3, d). Next a delicate longitudinal ridge, formed by proliferation of the cells of the outer layer (ectoderm), may be traced along the embryonic area; this is the primitive streaky and upon it appears a shallow, longitudinal groove, the primitive groove. Along the line