ELECTRICITY 62 from the muscle, or the nerve-endings in the muscle by direct application to the skin over the motor point. No contraction is produced at break except with currents too powerful to be borne. The motor point then holds good for both faradism and galvanism in normal muscle, but when the nerve - endings are destroyed, though the faradic current is inert, yet galvanism is still able to cause the muscle to contract when applied directly over the part, though the con- traction is no longer a brisk twitch, but sluggish and prolonged. This is the essential feature of the so-called Reaction of Degeneration, or R.D. This change is more marked the acuter the nerve lesion, and affects the irritability of both Fio. 5. nerve and muscle. In a typical case there is in the nerve a transient wave of hyperexcitability to both currents below the lesion, followed by a gradual diminution to both currents without polar change, until, in a severe case, there is complete loss of reaction in the nerve at the end of a week or ten days. In the muscles the faradic reactions also steadily diminish to complete loss after the first week, while the galvanic irrita- bility, at first slightly diminished, soon rises during the second or tliird week above the normal, though the contraction is sluggish, with usually a marked polar change, ACC KCC. In the early stage there may be a quick twitch with KCC and a sluggish contraction with ACC. The opening contractions also become more easily obtainable, and tetanic contractions are seen at make with the kathode and even with the anode. This condition may last several weeks to two months. If the nerve does not recover the faradic reactions never reappear, while the gal- vanic irritability also diminishes, in spite of treatment, and eventually no contractions will take place to either current. This takes many months or even years to happen, and during the later stages the kathodal contractions usually reassert their supremacy, or KCC may = ACC. Erb has described a partial form of R.D. which is met with in less severe nerve lesions, and is therefore of better prognosis. It consists of slightly lowered irritability of the nerve to faradism and galvanism, with diminished mus- cular irritability to faradism and hyperexcit- ability to galvanism, with the polar change ACC > KCC. This may be apparent without any loss of voluntary power, and is often to be met with in cases of nerve injury in muscles in the neighbourhood of those paralysed, e.g. the deltoids may show partial R.D. in cases of wrist- drop from lead neuritis, without any obvious weakness at the shoulders. Sometimes, too, as in facial palsy following shortly after mastoid operations, the voluntary power may be com- pletely lost for a short time, yet the only change is diminished irritability to both currents in nerve and muscles, with no galvanic hyper- excitability or polar change. Such electrical change is of better prognosis than when full R.D. is present, and some return of voluntary power is usually to be seen towards the end of the second week. Lastly, in recovery from severe paralysis, such as peripheral neuritis or injury, considerable voluntary power may return before any faradic irritability, and full voluntary power may be re-established with diminished faradic and galvanic excitability remaining for several months. In practical muscle-testing it is important to place the indifferent electrode at a distance, as on the spine or another limb. The first few contractions obtained should be neglected, since the muscles often require some stinudation before giving their best contractions. The strength of contraction on the two sides should be compared, and in testing or treating the small thumb muscles it is necessary to use twice the number of cells required to send the same current through the muscles of the forearm, owing to the thickness and great resistance of the skin of the palm. Treatment by galvanism is indicated in cases of muscular wasting from nerve injury, peri- pheral neuritis, or spinal disease, in which the faradic reactions are diminished or lost. The electrodes should be well covered with flannel or chamois leather, as electrolysis is set up in the skin with metal contacts. The kathode or nega- tive pole is the more painful, especially if allowed to get at all dry. This pole is usually selected for treatment, but either pole may be used according to the strength of contractions