EYEBALL, INJURIES OF 209 all impaired, is nearly always associated with mj'driasis, but may be present with a pupil of normal size. It is due to paralysis of the ciliary muscle from mechanical injury or hsemorrhage into its substance. Retroflexion of the iris, first noted by Schmidt in 1804, when as usual affecting' only one part of the circumference, gives the apjaearance of an iridectomy having been done; if the whole of the iris has been thus thrust back the con- dition resembles total absence of iris, aniridia, but is to be distinguished by the ciliary pro- cesses not being visible, and careful examination often reveals a very narrow rim of iris at some part of the circumference. Dislocation, of the lens may be partial or com- plete. The former is recognised by the tremu- lous state of the iris, iridodonesis, at one part, and if combined with rotation on its equatorial plane, by shallowness of the anterior chamber at the opposite side from a pushing forward of the iris by the edge of the lens. If the margin of the lens lies in the pupillary area it is seen as a strongly-marked, dark curved line. In very slight displacement one may require to use the ophthalmoscopic mirror, throwing the light very ol)liquely into the eye, and dilatation of the pupil is sometimes required, but this sign is seldom if ever absent. Partial disloca- tion is dependent upon rupture of some portion of the suspensoi'y ligament, but the writer lias seen a case where the ciliary body had itself become dragged into the pupillary area, and could be seen with the unruptured fibres of the suspensory ligament stretching between it and the displaced lens. Increase of the refraction, monocular diplopia, and apparent movements of objects looked at, are sometimes present. The complete degrees of dislocation of the lens, either into the vitreous or anterior chamber, are most apt to occur in elderly people with previous opacity of the lens, or in old damaged eyes, as in such cases the suspensory ligament is easily ruptm-ed. When the lens lies in the anterior chamber it gives the appearance of a large drop of oil, the edge is very dark and shining, the iris is driven back, and the anterior chamber is deepened. It should always be removed, for inflammation and increase of tension always follow and lead to destruction of the eye. The operation is best done under fidl antcsthesia by a large flajj- like section embracing nearly the lower half of the corneal circumference, and if the lens does not escape spontaneously, or on gentle pressure, it is removed by means of a metal spoon or wire curette. Even with the greatest care we are almost svire to have some loss of vitreous. A lens dislocated into the vitreous sinks to the floor of the eye, and can be seen by the mirror in this situation as a rounded greyish body, either freely movable, or if some time has elapsed it may be firmly fixed. The iris is VOL. Ill tremulous, the anterior chamber deep, and a strong convex lens is required to enable the eye to read print just as is necessary after cataract extraction. In most cases the eye does not remain quiet long, vitreous opacities gather, irido - cyclitis often with increase of tension supervenes, and the eye is ultimately lost, and may even require enucleation. The lens is not absorbed when in the vitreous, and I have found it only slightly diminished in size more than twenty years after the accident. Its removal when in this situation is a matter of very great difficulty, and if the eye remains free from inflammation, and the vision is good, it is best left alone. If it can be coaxed through the pupil into the anterior chamber by depressing the patient's head and shaking it roughly, it may be removed by section as described above, first fixing it by means of a cataract needle thrust through the cornea. The lens sometimes becomes cataractous as the result of a severe blow on the eye, even without penetration, concussion cataract, and Lawford and Collins have by dissection demon- strated in such cases extensive rupture of the posterior lens capsule. In other cases a rupture of the anterior capsule may be present, and as this is situated near the equator its presence may be difficult of recognition. The treatment consists in keeping the pupil dilated, and after complete maturation the cataract is removed by extraction or by discis- sion, followed by the use of the curette. A good visual result may be obtained except when the case is complicated witli injury to the deeper structures of the eye. IlcemorrJiage into the vitreous may occur as several small rounded drops ; these are from the smaller divisions of the retinal vessels, the actual point of rupture being sometimes visible. They become in time completely absorbed, but very slowly in comparison to haemorrhage in the anterior chamber. Extensive haemorrhage can usually be seen as a deep red mass in the lower part of the eye close behind the lens, and prol)- ably the source of the blood is from the ciliary body. The vitreous becomes liquefied, as evidenced by the free movement of the broken-up blood-clot, which gradually gets de- colorised and assumes the appearance of a flocculent yellowish grey mass. The vision is often reduced to counting fingers or even to l^erception of light, and improves if at all very slowly. Rest in bed, the use of atropine twice or thrice each day, combined with the internal administra- tion of ten-grain doses of salicylate of soda or iodide of potash, should be tried. Ruj^ture of the choroid ^ is not uncommon from a blow on the eye, and is recognised ophthalmo- scopically as a white or yellow crescent con- centric to, and about two discs diameter from ' See also vol. ii. p. 145. 14