FOOD 332 ability to produce tuberculosis in the consumers of their milk, is tuberculous disease of the cow affecting the udder. It should be noted that this affection of the udder is not peculiar to tuberculosis in an advanced stage, but may be found also in mild cases." This paragraph is a somewhat guarded one, and is not at variance with the conclusions from recent investigations, which point to the possibility that a tuberculous animal may give tuberculous milk even if the udder itself is not the seat of disease. Under the Dairies, Cowsheds, and Milkshops Order of 1899, the Local Government Board prohibit the sale for human food of milk from any cow certified by a veterinary surgeon to be suffering from tuberculous disease of the udder, and provide that such milk shall not be used for the food of swine until it has been boiled. With regard to ascertaining the presence or absence of the tubercle bacillus in milk, the only dependable means is that of inoculation. The guinea-pig is the animal commonly used, the injection being subcutaneous or peritoneal. The lesions which are the result of such inoculation can be clearly recognised from those which might have been produced accidentally in some other way. When proper precautions are taken, the injection of material free from tubercle bacillus will not produce lesions which can be mistaken for tuberculosis. The microscopic method alone is unsuitable, because even if tubercle bacilli were equally dis- tributed through tuberculous milk (which they are not), a very large number of them would have to be present before one could expect to find one bacillus now and again in the few drops of milk used for a microscopical examination, e.g. to examine one ounce of milk, at least 500 microscopical examinations would be necessary, each one taking twenty minutes to half an hour, and if there were, say, 100 bacilli in that ounce, five such examinations would be necessary before it could be expected that one bacillus could be discovered, yet one bacillus in each drop would represent 10,000 bacilli in a pint of milk. In inoculating, due care must be taken to ascertain that the animal is perfectly healthy before inoculation, and that it is kept under healthy surroundings in an effectively ventilated animal house ; the animal being isolated as soon as any abnormal symptom develops. Turning to another direction apart altogether from tuberculosis, inoculations were found to be extremely useful in investigating the relationship between milk and infantile diarrhoea ; it has been found—in the summer and autumn at least— that in some cases when the milk was not fresh, it proved highly virulent from causes other than that of tuberculosis, and killed the animal with- in forty-eight hours, indicating the presence of irritant organisms, the presence of which is of serious import, as likely to give rise to the acute and fatal gastro-enteritis of infants which is so exceedingly common during the summer and autumn. The use of humanised cows' milk, instead of, or in addition to breast milk for yoimg infants, is exceedingly common, and the wide difference between the two must be carefully borne in mind. Milk, when supplied in the natural manner to the young infant, passes direct, without ex- posure to the air, from the gland of the mother to the stomach of the infant at a suitable temperature and adequately mixed ; it contains neither adulterant nor preservative, nor has anything been abstracted from it, whilst, most important of all, it is, bacteriologically, clean and pure. The milk of commerce, on the other hand, is exposed to numberless risks of con- tamination, not only in the open buckets in the shippon, but also in strainers, pails, milk cans, and jugs, into which it finds its way in the course of its progress to the consumer; and even if it is neither skimmed, watered, nor otherwise adulterated, yet after being hawked from door to door through the dusty streets it must necessarily arrive in a varying degree of stale- ness, more or less contaminated, and loaded with microbes of various kinds. Between milk supplied as Nature intended it, and milk which has gone through so many vicissitudes, there is a gulf fixed, and a con- sideration of these facts indicates the extreme importance of care, and the desirability of sterilisation in all cases of doubt. Without going into details as to the nature of the putrefying organisms, or how they find their way into the milk, it may be stated that the direct destruction of infant life every summer and autumn from putrefying artificial milk-foods is remarkable. The facts may be illustrated by contrasting the mortality amongst an equal number of infants of equal ages fed respectively upon the breast alone, and upon cows' milk with artificial foods, of which milk, doctored in various ways, is the basis. As the result of a careful investigation by the writer, extending over several years, and supplemented and checked by the experience of members of the Liverpool Medical Institution, it is found that the mortality amongst equal numbers of infants below three months of age, fed respectively upon cows' milk with artificial foods, as well as breast milk, is fifteen times as great as it is amongst those fed on breast milk alone; or to put it in another way, if twenty infants out of every thousand below three months of age, fed upon the breast alone, die from infantile diarrhoea, no less than 300 die out of every thousand fed upon cows' milk and artificial foods as well as breast milk; but if they get no breast milk at all, nothing, in fact, but cows' milk and other artificial foods, it would appear that the deaths of those under three months of age would increase from 20 to 440 per thousand —a number almost incredible. The enormous