ENZYMES 131 and malt diastase, are destroyed by a mixture of pepsin and hydrochloric acid. On the addi- tion of 0-I-0-2 per cent hydrochloric acid boiled albumin is more easily digested than when not boiled. Pepsin may be prepared by the methods alreadj'' mentioned for obtaining ferments; it can be got from the acid watery or glycerine extract of the gastric mucous membrane by precipitation with alcohol and calcium phosphate or with cholestearin. Peptic digestion is re- tarded or inhibited by salts, including metallic salts, if in concentrated form {e.g. O'5-l per cent sodium chloride), alcohol (20 per cent), salicylic acid (0"1 per cent), chloral, bromine, iodine, phenol, chloroform, large quantities of cane sugar (over 16 per cent), small quantities of a3ther, benzol, sulphurous acid, oil of bitter almonds, morphin, strychnin, digitalin, veratrin, and other alkaloids. Small quantitiesof glycerine and arsenious acid sceui to exert no influence, but quinine in siuall quantities is said to hasten peptic digestion. Trypsin.—The formation, secretion, charac- teristics, and mode of action of this ferment are described in the article " Digestion." The opti- nuim temperature for the trypsin of warm- blooded creatures is from 37° to 40" C. Complete destruction of the ferment in watery solution occurs at about 70° C. The main factor for the powerful action of the ferment is an alkaline reaction. Soda seems to be most favourable in a strength of 0'2-0'5 per cent, but it may be increased up to 1-2 per cent. Acids, 0-1 per cent hydrochloric acid, for instance, usually abolish the activity of trypsin. Small amounts of salicylic acid (O'l percent) do not injure the enzyme. Large quantities of neutral salts re- tard its action, bile and the salts of the bile acids promote tryptic activity, while calomel does it little harm. In the preparation of tryp- sin, which, according to Kiihne, consists of a coagulable albumin and peptone, while Low holds it to bo a body resembling peptone, the principle of precipitation by alcohol is as a rule em|)loyed. As the enzyme probably exists in the pancreas merely in the form of a zymogen, it is advisable first to leave the finely-minced organ lying for one day exposed to the air; the zymogen is then transi'ormed into enzyme, probably by a post - mortem formation of acid. Papain or I'apai/otin.— Papain occurs in the juice of Carica papaya, which has long been used by the inhabitants of India to soften meat. The leaves and the green fruits also contain the enzyme. Proteoses (deutero-pi'oteose and true peptone) and also amido acids are formed as digestive products by pa])ain. Whether the digestive products are identical with those formed by trypsin may be considered as ex- tremely doubtful. Papain probably causes an actual process of splitting. Action occurs if the reaction be faintly acid, slightly alkaline, or neutral. The fermentative power increases nj) to 60° C, but active digestion proceeds even at 21° C. Hydrocyanic acid, boric acid, and phenol do not prevent the action of papain. The enzyme lias been prepared from the juice by precipita- tion with alcohol, etc. From its reaction it, too, seems to be a proteid. It is highly probable that some of the commercial invalid food pre- parations which have been brought forward as peptones, albumoses, etc., are produced by papain. There are other tryptic enzj'mes in the vege- table kingdom which are closely related to papain. A peptonising enzyme, which with 0'2 per cent hydrochloric acid has a powerful digestive action, bas been obtained from the juice of Ficus carica, as well as from dried figs. The germinating seeds of many plants (Green) contain albumin-splitting enzymes, wliich, how- ever, do not appear to be excreted, but which arc to be regarded as endoferments in the above- mentioned sense of the word. They are of great importance for the development of the plants, act in acid solution, and form albumoses, pep- tone, leucin, and tyrosin. Similar to them are the pi'oteolytic enzymes of the schizomycetes (Penicillium) and of the insect-eating plants {e.g. the enzyme of Nepenthes (Vines), which forms leucin and tyrosin in an acid solution. In this group, too, must be placed the endotrypsin of saccharomyces, obtained from bruising and crushing the yeast cells, also appearing in old cultures, which is distinguished from all other ])roteolytic ferments by the fact that peptone and albumoses can hardly be detected among the decomposition products, whilst leucin and tyrosin appear in great abundance. This endo- trypsin acts in acid solution. The proteolytic enzymes of bacteria, which are apparent in cultures by the liquefaction of gelatine, are distinguished from most of the other enzymes found in the vegetable kingdom by being efficacious only in alkaline solution. They are rapidly destroyed by weak acids, particularly the inorganic ones, and likewise by the heating of a watery solution over 70°. (jclatine, cspe- ciall}'' when in liquid form, is more readily acted on by the bacterial enzymes than are the true and solid proteids. Sunli-ht reduces the power of this ferment, but carbolic acid and sul)limate in weak solutions do not do so. The e/ahora- tion of ferment continues only as long as the vegetative growth of the bacteria lasts. The excretion of the ferment is not, however, depend- ent on the growth of the bacteria. On the contrary, the view that ferment escapes in abundance from old, dead, or degenerated cells must be regarded as correct. Fermi, among others, has shown that all those bacterial forms which liquefy gelatine contain such jjejitonising ferments—thus, cholei-a vibrio, bacillus pro- digiosus, pyocyaneus, the pyogenic staphylococci, and anthrax bacilli. These bacterial forms