ENZYMES 134 of the blood is very quickly diniinished on stand- ing at the room-tem])erature, so that it is some- times completely abolished a few hours after it has left the arteries, but if kept in an ice cup- board it is somewhat better maintained. The optimum temperature is from 37" to 38°. The activity is destroyed on heating the blood to 55°. As the blood serum is inert the fermentative activity must be connected with the blood corpuscles, especially the red ones. Lepine supposes that it is a ferment formed by the pancreas, and that the accumulation of sugar in the blood and urine of diabetic persons is due to the deficiency of this ferment. The glycolytic power of the blood is very sensitive to all inter- ference, to the addition of antiseptics, etc., and consequently many difficulties are thrown in our way in studying those questions which deal with the origin and importance of this fermentation. This action of the blood might also be regarded merely as an oxidation process. (See below.) VI. Oxidising and Reducing Enzymes Very manifold oxidation processes have been observed to occur in the blood and in animal organs, e.g. in a broth made from fresh liver which has been washed free of blood, and the.se processes have been regarded by some authors as due to enzyme action. In such broths, for instance, benzylalcohol is converted into benzoic acid, salicylaldehyde into salicylic acid, certain chromogens, such as paraphenylendiamin, into other colours, and hydrogen peroxide is decom- posed. The glycolytic action of the blood may also be regarded as an oxidation. At present we are in doubt as to whether, in these instances, we are really dealing with an oxidising ferment. The reducin(j action, too, which animal organs have been observed to exert on methylene- and alizarin-blue cannot be definitely classified as a fermentation. On the other hand, the fact ascertained by Rey-Pailhade that an extract of torulfe produces sulphuretted hydrogen from flowers of sulphur—an action also possessed by the cell-free juice of torulae—is to be regarded more as the action of a reducing enzyme. This enzyme is termed "phylothion." There is no doubt that certain of the bac- terial poisons—tetanus toxin, for instance, which even in extremely small quantities acts with great power in the animal body—are closely related to the ferments. The action, too, of antitoxin, and of agglutinin, recalls that of the enzymes. The power which the blood naturally possesses of destroying bacteria and globulins is still more closely related to the fermentations. The normal fresh blood and blood serum of animals and human beings has, as is well known, the power to kill bacteria in considerable num- bers, and similarly to dissolve the blood cor- puscles belonging to a dift'erent species of animal. Both these capabilities of the normal blood and blood serum are abolished on heating to 55°. The simplest explanation of these pro- cesses would be offered by the assumption of a labile proteolj'tic enzyme occurring normally in the blood. These points will be more fully considered in the article "Immunity." Eosin. — A coloured compound produced by treating resorcinol fluorescein with brom- ine ; chemically it is tetra - brom - fluorescein (CoiiHgBr^Oj); it is a valuable cytoplasmic stain, much used in microscopy, especiall}'^ in combination with hasmatoxylin (which stains the nucleus). EosinOphile.—The property of being easily stained by acid dyes, possessed by the granules of certain leucocytes and myelocytes. These gi'anules are of large size, contrasting with the fine granules of the neutrophile cells. See Blood, Phvsiology and Clinical Investiga- tion OF. EOSinophilia,.—An increase in the per- centage number of the eosinophile leucocytes in the circulating blood. It is present in leuksemia, in paroxysmal asthma, in various skin diseases, in gout, in scarlatina, and in parasitic diseases, especially ankylostomiasis, trichinosis, and filariasis. It is of considerable importance in the diagnosis of many of these diseases. In suppurative conditions the presence of eosino- phile cells in the blood is of favourable prognostic import. An ordinary polymorphonuclear leuco- cytosis is usually associated with a decrease or even entire absence of the eosinophiles. See Dermatitis Herpetiformis {Pathology) ; Leuco- CYTOsis [Eosinophile); Pemphigus {Pathology); Parasites {Trichina Spiralis). Epactcil Bon0.—The interparietal or epactal bone is a small accessory bony nucleus occasionally found in the sagittal suture near its posterior end; it is also called the os IncJB (because it is supposed to be commoner in Peruvian skulls). Epa.na.lepsiSa—Recovery from sickness ; analepsis. Epa.rSctlg'ia..—A morbid state due to violent exertion and overstrain, such as cardiac dilatation, enteroptosis, hemoptysis, and hernia. Ependyma..—The neuroglial lining of the cerebral ventricles and of the central canal of the spinal cord ; it is subjacent to the epi- thelium ; inflammation of this layer is called ejiendymitis. EpheliS.—Freckles or lentigo. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections op {Classification,. Sexual). Ephemeral Fever, ^'ee a^so Tropics, Unclassed Fevers {Continued Fevers of Short Duration). — Definition. — The term ephemeral