EPIDEMIOLOGY 138 epidemic disease the property of specificity, which is, in a sense, implied in the fact that it is caused by a contagium vivum. If we use the term, the meaning we put into it must be wide enough to cover the following facts:—[a) Microbes presenting marked morphological and biological differences give rise to the same dis- ease. The vibrios of cholera differ so much from one anotiier that they ai-e supposed by some to belong to different species. {b) A complex of microbes may be concerned in producing the lesions of a disease. In most cases one microbe can be cleai-ly identified as specific ; the others, so to speak, form its retinue. The presence of the specific microbe determines the ajipearance of the others. It has been proved that the products of the cultivation of the bacillus of yellow fever promote the growth of the coli bacillus, the staphylococcus aureus, the proteus vulgaris, and the streptococci. This explains the frequent presence of these organisms in yellow fever, in many cases of which the specific bacillus is crowded out by these intruders. In non-amoibic dysentery a variety of organisms are always yjresent, and it is impossible at present to say if any one of them, to the exclu- sion of the others, is concerned in originating the dysenteric pi'ocess. Whether this form of dysentery is strictly specific, in the sense of being always due to one organism, is uncertain, but that it often assumes epidemic characters is abundantly evident. (c) A great variety of symptoms and lesions xn&y be produced by the specific microbe itself apart from the existence of a mixed infection, such as we meet with in yellow fever. Simple variation in virulence does not, as a rule, materially affect the nature of the lesions, but the port of entrance of a microbe has a remark- able influence on the gravity of the symptoms, and even on the lesions of a disease. We know how the manifestations of plague differ accord- ing as infection takes place by the skin, the respiratory passages, or the alimentary canal. Inoculated small-pox is a mild disease compared with that contracted in the ordinary waj'. If we were to go out of the field of strictly epidemic diseases, we should find a remarkable illustration of the influence of the port of entrance on the character of a disease by comparing the symptoms and lesions of cutaneous and pulmonary anthrax. To sum up, we may say that, with a few doubtful exceptions, all epidemic diseases are specific, and the symptoms and lesions produced by the pathogenic organism are the same under the same conditions. The marked differences in these respects observed in certain diseases depend either on the virus effecting its entrance by different ports, or on the association of other organisms causing a mixed infection. The presence of the specific organism of an epidemic disease is not sufficient to determine an epidemy. For this, among other things, a susceptibility or receptivity on the part of a community is essential. Suscejatibiiity to all infections is increased by conditions which lower the resistance of the system generally, or that of the surface through which infection takes place. Insufficient nourishment, muscular ex- haustion, mental fatigue, exposure to cold or excessive heat, and vicissitudes of temperature all predispose the body to infection, although one set of conditions does not pi'edispose to all diseases indifferently. The experiments which establish the influence of these agents in render- ing the body amenable to particular contagia are too well known to require that they should be mentioned here. But the vast importance of predisposition as determining whether infec- tion shall, or shall not, follow exposure to the specific cause is not sufficiently recognised. A few illustrations of the effect of predisposition in determining the epidemic spread of disease must suffice. The germ or germs of dysentery are ubiquit- ous. It is sufficient to subject a body of men for a time to exhaustion, want, alternations of heat and cold to ensure an outbreak of dysentery, and once produced, the disease becomes epidemic, and spreads to those not subjected to these hard- ships. The history of every long and trying cam- paign furnishes evidence of the influence of pre- disposition in giving rise to epidemic dysentery. The microbe of typhus is imknown, but it, too, appears to be widely diffused and ready to come into evidence as soon as circumstances affecting the susceptibility of a community favour its pathogenic activity. It is sure to make its appearance sooner or later among those whose resistance has been broken down by want or disease, if they are confined in dark, filthy, un- ventilated dwellings on sea or on land. Creighton records a very remarkable instance of typhus being generated (if we may use the expression) in an Egyptian frigate, having on board 476 ' men, 200 of whom were convicts. The voyage to Liverpool was long and stormy, preventing ventilation 'tween decks. The vessel, besides, was in a horrible state of filth. There was much sickness of a diarrheal kind among the men, but mo /e?;er ay)peared on l)oard. On arriving in the Mersey these men, who were themselves free from fever, communicated typhus to the English who were brought into contact with them, or who went on board the vessel. In all thirty took the infection, and eight died. Kelsch has recently shown how certainly the fatigues consequent on the annual manoeuvres in France, by their effect in reducing the resist- ance of the body to the virus, are followed by outbreaks of enteric fever. In the same way malarial fever readily becomes epidemic among those subjected to the hardships of war, or who suffer from want. It is for this reason notably a disease of the poor. Duboue's experience in France is that of all who have seen much of the