EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 97 what it was that gave to the limbless embyro part at least of its grotesque and non-human ;ippearance. The embryo is still far from human in its aspect, the presence of the branchial arches and grooves quite prevents that. Not yet have these gill-like structures begun to disappear, buried from sight, in the cervical sinus ; that fate awaits them in the next week. The first trace of a nose is now visible in the very unnose-like nasal pits, too shallow almost to deserve the name of pits; stalked vesicles represent the eyes ; and the otocysts, by their retreat from the surface, have for the time removed even the suggestion of ears. It is difficult to recognise the simple neural tube of the eai'ly days of development in the conq)licated series of brain vesicles of the fourth week ; and yet the nervous system is only beginning to assume its labyrinthine form with its sinuous or tortuous passages, with the intri- cate ramifications of its cavities, and with its endless irregularities of contour, its invaginations and evaginations. We can still identify the central cavity of its various parts, for it is throughout fairly wide and canal-like, but soon this character disappears, and it is difficult to see in the narrow iter of later weeks the wide tract of the mesencephalon of the fourth week. Already the lateral walls are thickening irregu- larly, while the roof and floor in most parts remain thin and membrane-like. Quite at its anterior extremity this series of vesicles has begun to expand into that 7nagmim optis of onto- genesis and organogenesis, the cerebral hemi- spheres : there is as yet little to be seen of that crowning superstructure of developmental activity ; but its foundations are there, firmly laid, and even beginning to show above the sin-face. In the spinal cord, also, histological and structural differentiation is going on: spongioblasts are forming that neuroglia-net- work, in the meshes of which neuroblasts, potential neurons with potential axons and dendrites, begin to appear; and, having appeared, begin to stretch forth in bewildering fashion, and with far-reaching results so far as the later structure of this part of the nervous system is concerned. Hardly less remarkable are the developments going forth in the great body cavity of the embryo, where we find an intestine with an end-gut or ^)fl?-s ultima and an entodermal cloaca {pars penu/tima), the anlar/e of a liver and pancreas, the indication of a trachea and lungs, and relatively large and well-formed WolflBan bodies. The last-named organs have, indeed, already reached their acme of structural differen- tiation and the culminating point of their de- velopmental activity. The heai't, also, is rapidly apjjroaching the high degree of constructive detail which it maintains during the remainder of antenatal life ; for, unlike the Wolffian bodies, it does not then start upon a degenerative I VOL. Ill progress, but remains permanently efficient and physiologically of great importance. Very soon its chambers, right and left, will be divided'off from each other by septa, complete but for the presence of the foramen ovale, which serves as a communication between the auricles until the occurrence of birth and the replacement of the foetal with the adult type of circulation. EXTKA-E.MBRYOXIC PaRTS IN THE FiFTH WeEK In the fifth week after impregnation, the decidual membranes bear much the same re- lations to each other and to the chorionic vesicle as in the fourth week. Minot {Ilvinan Eiuhryology^ p. 13, 1892) describes the decidua sei'otina in a specimen of about this age (fifth week) as consisting of a compact and a spongy layer, the former constituting one qiiarter of the whole thickness of the serotina. The surface was without any trace of epithelium, but was covered with a thin fibrous and granular co- agulum. The compact layer consisted almost exclusively of young large decidual cells and a clear homogeneous matrix; the cells were irregular in shape, but more or less rounded, with processes which occasionally united two cells together. In the deeper or spongy (cavern- ous) layer the decidual cells were not so large; they were more fusifoi'm in shape, and had longer, less round nuclei. The sjmces of the cavernous layer were glandular, and in many of them the shed epithelium (often degenerated) could be seen lying. In the smaller spaces the epithelium (columnar in type) was well preserved and still attached to the walls. The blood- vessels lay between the glands, and Minot found nothing corres2:)onding to the " colossal capill- aries " of Turner. The chorionic vesicle is still covered all over with villi, but these ai'e most marked in the region corresponding to the decidua serotina. The minute anatomy of the parts is the same as in the fourth week. The space between the amniotic sac and the inner aspect of the chorionic vesicle — the extra-embryonic ca^lom — is still large, but not so large as in the preceding week ; at the end of the fifth week it may be stated roughly that the space between the embryo and the chorion is divided equally between the amniotic cavity and the ca^lom (Mall, Journ. Morphol., xii. 375, 1897). The amniotic mem- brane is still not far removed from the body of the embryo, and possesses the same liistological appearances as formerly. The umbilical vesicle is pear-shaped ; its stalk has lengthened con- siderably, and for the first part of its course is enclosed within the Bauchstiel; and the vesicle is no longer increasing in size. The E^iisryo ix the Fifth Week Various human embryos of the age of the fifth week have been described, several by His (Pr, M, Br, Ro-, Ko, Sch, etc.), some by Minot and 7