198 EYE Symptoms) ; Cataract ; Colour Vision ; Choroid, Diseases ; Conjunctiva, Diseases of ; Cornea, Diseases and Injuries ; Death, Signs of {Eye Lustre); Diabetes Mellitus {Symptoms and Com'plications, Eye Changes); Eye, Clinical Examination of ; Eyeball, Injuries of ; Eye- lids, Affections of ; Filariasis {Filaria loa or Dracuncuhhs Oculi) ; General Paraly'Sis {Symptoms, Eye) ; Glaucoma ; Hay Fever ; Headache {Causes, Eye); Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Complications, Ocular); Iris and Ciliary Body ; Lacrimal Apparatus ; Lens, Crystalline ; Leprosy {Clinical Features, Eye Affections); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerbbro-Spinal {Symp- toms) ; Mental Deficiency {Mongoloid Cases); Nose, Accessory Sinuses Inflammation {Chronic Suppuration, Eye Symptoms); Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Ophthalmoplegia ; Orbit, Diseases of ; Physiology, Senses (Vision) ; Refraction ; Eetina and Optic Nerve ; Retinoscopy ; Sclerotic, Diseases of ; Strabismus ; Syphilis {Secondary, Tertiary, Eye and its Appendages) ; Tabes Dorsalis {Symp- tomatology, Eye Symptoms) ; Teeth {Neuralgias of Dental Origin); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exopihthalmic Goitre); Vision, Field of ; Vit- reous Humour, Diseases of. Eye, Clinical Examination of. Introductory . . . . .198 Patient's Appearance, Gait, etc. . .198 Leading Symptomatology . . .199 The Eyelids and Lachrymal Apparatus. 199 The Ocular Conjunctiva . . . 201 Photophobia and Blepharospasm . 201 The Cornea 202 The Anterior Chamber, Iris, and Pupil. 202 The Crystalline Lens .... 203 The Intra-ocular Tension . . . 204 Visual Acuity ..... 204 Malingering . . . . . 206 Colour Vision ..... 206 Visual Fields ..... 206 Night-Blindness .... 207 An examination of the eye may be required to discover the cause of ocular symptoms, to aid in the diagnosis of some general condition, or to ascertain the fitness of the subject of the examination for a particular occupation. For whatever purpose the examination is undertaken it should be conducted upon a definite plan, otherwise some points may easily escape detection. It is, of course, not neces- sary that the whole examination should be gone through in every case. Some symptom may direct attention at once to the salient feature in the case, or an opinion may be required on some particular point. Cases which are examined in consequence of a defect in vision usually come, in the first instance, under the notice of the ophthalmic surgeon, but in the course of his examination he not infrequently is led to the discovery of some general disease previously unsuspected. Perhaps the most frequent example of this is the diagnosis of albuminuria or glycosuria from changes in the retina. The presence of optic atrophy, or of abnormal action of the pupils, may lead to the discovery of tabes dorsalis, or disseminated sclerosis. While a diagnosis of sj^philis, inherited or acquired, may be estab- lished by an examination of the cornea, iris, or choroid. The physician not infrequently is aided in his diagnosis by an examination of the eye, as, for example, when the presence of double papillitis tends to strengthen a doubtful diagnosis of intracranial growth, or when the localisation of a cerebral lesion is aided by noting the con- dition of the visual fields, or abnormalities in the action of the orbital muscles or pupils. Candidates for the Government services, for the posts of railway signalmen, or of ofiicers on ships, and even school-board teachers, afford examples of the need for an examination of the eyes. Examinations for such piu-poses are often entirely neglected, or inefficiently carried out, to the great injmy of the individual and the danger of the public {vide " Colour Vision "). Before beginning a detailed examination of the eyes a general survey of the patient should be taken, and any outstanding evidences of past or present disease or injury mentally noted. Syphilis, hereditary or acquired, is of primary importance in this respect, while among other diseases specially liable to give ocular mani- festations may be mentioned Bright's disease, diabetes, and locomotor ataxy. The so-called diathesis of the patient may be important especially in relation to rheumatic and gouty conditions in adults, and to the so-called strumous affections in children. In cases of cerebral tumour the patients seldom seek advice spontaneously on account of defective vision, the examination of the eyes being usually made to aid the physician in establishing a diagnosis. The gait and bearing of the patient should always be noted. Unsteadiness of gait may be an indication of some severe nervous lesion, but may also be due to the vertigo produced by recent paralysis of an ocular muscle. In the latter case the head is often held obliquely, being turned in the direction of action of the paralysed muscle. A patient with nuclear catai'act will often walk towards the window with his head slightly bent, and his hand shad- ing his eyes in order to get the pupils to dilate so as to enable him to see past the central opacity. Patients with double ptosis often walk with the head thrown backwards and the brows wrinkled, so that they may see from under the overhanging lids. The eyes should next be looked at from a distance of a few feet in a good light, and any evident abnormal appearances noted. The posi-