276 FILAEIASIS F. uncinata, harboured both by ducks and by a small crustacean. In these examples the definitive host will be found named before the intermediary host. Reasoning from analogy, it may safely be laid down, as a general rule, for most of these parasites that may require two hosts for their complete development, the secondary host is usually to be sought for amongst insects, Crustacea, or the like. There is a wide field of work open to investigators, as many of the secondary hosts have still to be discovered, and with their discovery a more accurate knowledge will be gained with regard to the mode of infection. Attractive as it may seem, the task is undoubtedly fraught with many practical difficulties. Railliet's nomen- clature has been largely followed. It will be observed that certain worms have numerous synonyms; this, however, need not lead to confusion, as the name generally ; adopted by leading authorities is given precedence. General Characters of the Pilaris.—The genus Filaria (0. F. Mtiller, 1787) comprises a large number of species which possess the following characters :—The worms are filiform, having a fairly uniform transverse measure- ment throughout their entire length, though some taper off gradually toward both ex- tremities. The cephalic extremity is rounded, the mouth being often of simple construction. The males are, as a rule, markedly smaller than the females, and have a recurved or spiral tail, the latter being at times furnished with lateral membranous outgrowths, whilst they usually possess four preanal and a variable number of postanal papillte, and spicules which generally vary both as regards appearance and size. In the female worms the vulval aperture is more or less in the vicinity of the mouth. I. Filaria affecting Man or Man and Animals I. Filaria Bancrofti, Cobbold, 1877. Syn.: Trichina cystica, Salisbury, 1868; F. sanguinis hominis, Lewis, 1872; F. dermathemica, Da Silva Aranjo, 1875; F. Wuchereri, Da Silva Lima, 1877 ; F. sang. horn, nocturna, Manson, 1891.—The adult worm was first found by Bancroft (1876) in a lymphatic abscess of the arm and subsequently in a hydrocele, the dis- covery being confirmed by Lewis, Aranjo, and Manson. The last named found that it normally inhabits the lymphatic vessels, the embryos, and also at times the adult worms, gaining access to the circulation through the thoracic duct. The sexes are usually found together, six to seven worms lying intertwined (Maitland), or the parasites lie stretched out along the length of the vessels. The Filaria sanguinis hominis, the embryonal form of F. Bancrofti, was first observed by Demarquay of Paris (1863) in a man from Havana who suffered from chylocele. It was discovered in the blood and named accordingly by Lewis (1872) in India. Since then it has been established that such embryos may belong to different species, and Manson has suggested the necessity of distinguishing them by appropriate names, even though the parent forms are unknown. (See F. diurna, perstans, etc.) Wucherer (1866) found the embryos in the urine of a case of tropical chyluria, and Lewis and many other observers found them, not only in the blood, but even in the tears and secretion of the Meibomian glands in cases of chyluria, elephan- tiasis, or in apparently healthy subjects. Morphology.—The adult parasite (see Plates accompanying this article) is filiform, actively motile, whitish and opaline in colour, with gradually tapering ends which terminate bluntly. Mouth terminal and simple. The male is 70-80 mm. long by 0*407 mm. broad, the delicate tail forming one or several spiral turns. According to Railliet and von Linstow (see Plate), it possesses four pairs of papillte (Manson says positively that they have not been seen), and a single unpaired papilliform projection situated preanally, four (Manson says three) postanal papillse and two unequal spicules, one measur- ing 170 //.. The /hnale measures 155 mm. (Manson gives 94 mm.) by 0-715 mm., the vulva 2'56 mm. (Manson gives 1'2 mm.), from the cephalic extremity. The discrepancies in the measurements given by these authors are doubtless due to different modes of preparation. The vagina is very short and bifurcates into two uterine horns which run back nearly to the tail and are filled with embryos in all stages of development. The eggs, which are normally found only in the upper part of the uterine tubes, measure 38 by 14 /x. The embryos, which are found in the lower part of the uterus and vagina of the parent worm as also in the host's circulation, are 270-340 /x long by 7-11 broad, and are enclosed in a delicate membrane (remains of vitelline mem- bi'ane, according to Manson), 'which does not impede the rapid and active movements of the worm. Owing to the retraction of the worm at either end the loose membrane may present the appearance of a lash. The tail measures about one-fifth of the entire length of the entire worm. An ill-defined granular aggrega- tion situated axially at the juncture of the middle and posterior third of its body represents the developing intestine, which is rendered clear by staining. At a short distance behind the head a luminous V-shaped spot (water- vascular system 1) is visible, the apex opening outwardly. A similar but smaller spot is observable near the tail end and the cephalic armatures, the latter consisting of a " retractile and protractile six-lipped prepuce, covering and uncovering a thick, hemispherical proboscis, which is further provided with a minute, fili- form, protrusible, apical spine " (Manson).