DEVELOPMENT OF 326 FCETUS AND OVUM, abdominal aorta. Part of this blood passes to the abdominal viscera, the pelvis and lower extremities, the greater part is carried by the internal iliac arteries into the two hypogastric arteries, which pass up the anterior abdominal wall to the umbilicus, where they leave the body and enter the umbilical cord. They are now known as the umbilical arteries, and pass, coiling round the umbilical vein, to the fostal surface of the placenta. The Changes in the Foetal Circulation at Birth. —These are due to two causes: first, the ex- pansion of the lungs by respiration; and second, the separation of the foetus from its placenta by division of the cord. The immediate effect of expansion of the lungs is to divert a great part of the blood in the pulmonary artery to the lungs ; as a result the ductus arteriosus becomes greatly contracted. The immediate effect of division of the cord is to reduce the pressure in the right auricle by diminishing greatly the amount of blood brought to it by the inferior vena cava. At the same time the pressvire in the left auricle is raised, because the inflow through the pulmonary veins is augmented by the increased amount of blood now flowing through the lungs. As a result the pressure in the two auricles is equalised, and when they contract simultaneously in systole the flap valve of ^the foramen ovale becomes closed, and the passage of blood from right to left auricle is arrested. Practically all the blood entering the right auricle is now passed through the tri- cuspid valve into the right ventricle and thence to the lungs. The sudden reduction of the blood-pressure in the right heart probably also assists the closure of the ductus arteriosus. The umbilical vein contracts as there is now no blood entering it from the placenta, and along with the ductus venosus it becomes obliterated without thrombosis. In the adult the former persists as a fibrous cord enclosed in a fold of peritoneum, being known as the falciform liga- ment of the liver. The umbilical arteries and ductus arteriosus are also said to close without thrombosis, although the presumption would be that as some blood is able to enter these vessels, clotting would occur. The foramen ovale is usually completely closed by the eighth to tenth day after birth ; sometimes it remains perma- nently patent, giving rise to the condition known as morhus cerukeus. The ductus arteriosus usu- ally closes rather earlier than the foramen ovale, being converted into the ligamentum arteri- osum. Disposition of the Fcetus in Utero.—Sec- tional anatomy has added some valuable facts to our knowledge of this subject within recent years. The general arrangement of the foetal parts is one of moderate flexion; as a result the body of the foetus forms a compact ovoid, the long diameter of which measures about 10 inches, i.e. rather less than half the total length of the body. The advantage of this arrangement is sufficiently obvious. The head is usually found to be flexed, the chin touching the sternum, before the onset of labour, a point which will be again considered in its bearing upon the mechan- ism of labour. Frequently, also, the head is rotated a little to one or other side, and bent towards the shoulder. Minor deviations from this arrangement may be met with, such as extension of the legs, but they are compara- tively unimportant. Frequent changes in the relation of the long axis of the foetal ovoid to that of the uterus occur during the last weeks of pregnancy. Fogf. See Meteorology {Effect of Fog on Health). Foie Si lex.—The "flint liver" which is found in cases of congenital syphilis. See Liver, Diseases of {Hereditary Syphilis). Fold.—A term commonly used in Anatomy and Embryology for the doubling or bending of a structure on itself. Folie Circulaire. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Alternating Insanity). Folic du Doute. See Alcoholic In- sanity {Folie du Doute); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Defects of Inhibition, Swithering In- sanity). Follicle.—A glandular sac or crypt, e.g. a Graafian follicle in the ovary, a Lieberkiihnian follicle of the intestine, and an agminated follicle of the ileum; folliculitis is inflammation of such follicles, but more particularly of the hair follicles of the skin. See Alopecia ; Acne ; Skin, Tuberculosis {Lichen Scrofulosorum). FOITieilta.tiori.—Fomentatio7is or fom- enta are cloths or sponges wrung out in hot water (often containing a sedative or stimulat- ing medicine) and applied to the skin over the seat of an injury or a disease; they have been recommended also in labour, in inertia uteri; when turpentine is sprinkled on the cloth or flannel a turpentine stupe is prepared, and when a bag of hot salt or bran is used it is called a " dry " fomentation. FomiteS. — The plural of fomes, which literally means fuel, and is employed, in medi- cine, for the various substances or materials {e.g. clothes, curtains, letters, etc.) which may serve to carry the germs of disease from one person to another. Fonta.nelles.—The membranous inter- spaces between the bones of the head of the fcetus and new-born infant which allow changes in the outline of the cranium to occur (mould- ing) without prejudicial effects; their recog- nition is important in the diagnosis of the presentation and position of the child in labour