200 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF sionally a source of conjunctival initation is an eyelash impacted in one canaliculus, the free end coming into contact with the cornea. The condition of the lachrymal apparatus should next be ascertained. The lachrymal gland cannot usually be felt unless it is patho- logically enlarged. Its edge can then be made out as a smooth, hard body immediately below the outer third of the upper margin of the orbit. Obstruction in the drainage apparatus is, on the other hand, excessively common. The punctum may be congeuitally absent, it may be occluded by cicatrisation, or displaced from ectropion. In all these conditions the tears, being unable to escape by the natural channels, run down the face. More frequent and more serious than these conditions is obstruction of the nasal duct. When this is present the tears accumulate in the lachrymal sac, and regurgitate into the con- junctival cul-de-sac when pressui'e is made over the lachrymal sac in a direction backwards, upwards, and inwards. Sometimes the obstruc- tion is incomplete, and the contents of the sac can be pressed down the duct. The contents of the sac may consist of tears only, of tears mixed with mucous secretion (hence the term " muco- cele "), or of pus. The existence of a mucocele is important in view of any operative proceeding on the eye, as the wound may easily become infected with pyogenic organisms. Epiphora, or watery eye, is common to all affections of the lachrymal drainage system. It may, however, be present merely as the resvilt of over-secretion of tears. This may be due to an error of refraction, but it is not infrequently met with without any ascertainable cause. The conjunctiva in these cases appears to be hyper- sensitive, and on its exposvire to cold air a reflex secretion is brought about (see "Lachrymal Gland "). We now return to the eyelids to consider the condition of their mucous surface. To expose this it is necessary to evert the lids. In the lower lid this is effected by merely drawing the free edge downwards, but to evert the upper lid neatly and painlessly requires some little dexterity. Either of the following two methods may be employed—(1) The surgeon stands behind the patient, the latter pressing his head against the surgeon's chest. The patient should look down, while the surgeon holding some round body, such as a probe or pencil case, lays it gently horizontally on the lid, just above the upper edge of the tarsus. With the thumb and fore- finger of the other hand he takes hold of the free edge of the lid and draws it downwards and forwards. The probe being held firmly, the lower edge of the lid can now be drawn up and the lid everted. (2) The surgeon faces the patient, and using his right hand for the patient's left eye, and vice versa, he places the pulp of his index finger on the lid, and uses this as the fulcrum, while the thumb is placed under the free edge of the lid, which it pushes forwards. This method re- quires more practice than the other, but is some- what quicker, and it can be applied to both eyes at once. With either it is important that the patient should look down in order to relax the levator muscle. The conjunctival surface of the lid thus ex- posed should be moist and perfectly smooth, except over the prominences caused by the ends of the tarsus, where a few minute papillte caia generally be seen. The colour is pale red from fine blood-vessels. As regards shape, it is con- cave from side to side, but from above down- wards it should be nearly flat. Parallel with the free edge, and two millimetres from it, is a fine groove, which is a frequent lodging-place for foreign bodies. The cul-de-sac should also be explored. To expose the upper the patient should look well down while the lid is kept everted. If the surgeon will then press the globe gently backwards the upper cul-de-sac will usually roll forward. The tissue of the cul-de-sac is loose and contains lymphatic bodies which, when swollen, look like grains of boiled sago. These " follicular granulations " are some- times evidence of malnutrition, but they are occasionally met with in persons who appear to be in perfect health. It is possible that their presence increases the liability to any contagious conditions, but they are not of themselves of any other importance. The paljjebral conjunctiva may be velvety from chronic inflammation, it may be covered by sticky mucus or with pus. In catarrhal or purulent ophthalmia the secretion may be coagu- lated into shreds or membranes; but this con- dition must not be confounded with the much rarer, but more serious, diphthei'itic inflamma- tion. In the latter a raw surface is left on the removal of the membrane, and bacteriological examination will show the specific organisms. It is probable that all abnormal conjunctival secretions are contagious to some degree, but their virulence varies greatly. Next to the diphtheritic cases the most actively contagious are those in which the gonococcus is found in the secretion. Bacteriological examination is of great dia- gnostic value in some cases. It must, however, be borne in mind that the conjunctiva being constantly exposed to the air affords a lodgment for many micro-organisms, which may have no causal relations to affections of the conjunctiva since they are present under noi'mal conditions. The lid linings may be affected with trachoma —granular lids; in such cases the lid is rough from "granulations," which vary in apjaearance, some being round or oval greyish bodies like the follicular bodies already described, others