45 ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF Sprains, ei'c. ...... 49 Wounds ...... 50 Contractions . . . . .51 Scars Faralysis Ankylosis . . . . . .51 Cubitus Varus and Valgus Inflammatory Affections, etc.— Acute 51 Simple Synovitis Septic or Suppurative Arthritis Chronic . . . . . .52 Tuberculous Syphilitic Rheumatic Gou ty Osteo-Arthritis Charcots Disease Ila^mophilia. Bursal Affections .... 53 Affections op the Blood-Vessels . . 54 Neurosis ...... 54 New Growths ..... 54 Loose Bodies ..... 54 Operations ...... 54 See also Brachial Plexus, Surgical' Affec- tions {Arthritis of Elboiv as Sequel); BuRS^c, Injuries and Diseases of (Sitttations of Bursas near Elbow - Joint); Osteo - Arthropathies {Arthropathies, Charcot's Joints). Anatomical.—In the following description tlie term epicondyle will be taken to refer to that prominence of bone, on either side, which is without the capsule, and which niay or may not be entirely cpipiiyseal. The condyles proper, then, are within the capsule, intra-articular; the outer includes the capitellum, the inner the trochlea. In the examination of all injuries about the elbow-joint a clear appreciation of the normal relationship of the parts is essential. The prominent tendon of the biceps is plainly visible in front of the joint. Its outer edge is separated from the extensor mass of muscles by a distinct furrow which indicates the line of the deeply placed musculo - spiral nerve. The furrow or hollow on its inner side, between the inner edge and the flexor group of muscles, is less visible and marks the situation of tlie median nerve and the brachial artery. The fold of the elbow is a little above the line of the articulation (Troves). Its ex- tremities correspond to the summit of the epicondyles. The prominent and pointed internal epi- condyle, the olecranon process, and external epicondyle are the important bony land- marks. The summit of the olecranon is, in full extension, slightly above a transverse epicon- dylar line, but forms with this line in flexion a triangle, the apical angle of which varies with the degree of flexion. The interval is greater l^etween the olecranon and external epicondyle, and less important than that between the olecranon and internal epi- condyle which lodges the ulnar nerve. The natural deviation of the forearm outwards on account of the obliquity of the trochlear articular surface of the Inimerus should lie borne in mind. Immediately below the external epicondyle and just behind the muscular mass formed by the radial extensors and supinator longus, the head of the radius can be distinctly felt, in- dicating its point of contact with the capitelhmi. On deep pressure in front of the joint the coronoid process can be felt (Chiene). It is needless to add the advantage gained by a sj'stematic and comparative examination of tlie injured and sound joint, and n\ various positions. Limitation of movement, of flexion, of extension, of pronation, of supination, and the existence of increased or diminished lateral deviation shovdd be noted. By placing the middle finger and thumb of both hands on the epicondyles of the injured and sound joint respectively the fore- fingers can be placed on the olecranon, and its varying relation ascertained. Care should be taken not to confound trans- mitted crepitation for that supposed to be under the examining finger. Among the difliculties of diagnosis are the early rapid swelling of the parts, and the occasional presence of a more or less complete dislocation. Fractures.—Fractures of the lower end of the humerus may be conveniently divided into :— (tt) Tliose whicli do not directly communicate with the joint. {b) Those which extend into the joint and involve the articular surface. (a) The only fracture that need be mentioned belonging to the first division is a fracture through both the epicondyles, in children practically including in the lower fragment the entire epiphysis. This fracture is usually the result of an in- direct blow either on the point of the elbow or on the hand. It is most frecpiently met with in children (twelve out of eighteen—Hamilton). The line of fracture in the adult is generally oblique ; the direction of the obliquity depends upon the cause. Usually the lower fragment is displaced backwards, carrying witli it the fore- arm. The pointed ragged extremity of the diaphysis buries itself in the brachialis anticus. The converse may be the case, the lower fragment with the forearm carried forwards and the diaphysis backwards. In children the line of fracture is more tran.s- verse than oblique, involving a detachment, complete or in part, of the lower epiphyses. Diagnosis.—All the signs of fracture are