104 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN material thickest at the pole. Possibly some of the fibrin may arise from the blood. On the inner surface of the reflexa no trace of maternal epithelial cells can be seen, and on the outer surface is an epithelium with much the same characters as that on the vera (cubical or flattened, not ciliated). The decidua serotina is from 2 to 3 mm. in thickness, and the compact layer measures about one-quarter of the whole. In some parts the whole decidua looks as if made up of the compact layer, but as Webster points out this may be a variation of no importance. The surface is irregular and no surface epithelium is visible. The outer parts of the glands in the compact layer are obliterated, and both in them and in the deeper parts in the spongy layer the lining epithelium may be cubical or irregular, attached or loose, and more or less degenerated. In the interglandular tissue characteristic decidual cells are found in some parts, and in others they show signs of degeneration. The superficial part of the compacta shows an irregular layer of fibrin-like material; this has to be distinguished from the layer of fibrin on the surface which results from coagulation of the blood. At intervals chorionic villi are fixed to the surface, and between them flattened masses of protoplasm (syncytium or plasmodium) are attached. The syncytium forms a more broken layer than it did before. There are no cell outlines, and the nuclei are arranged either in rows or quite irregularly. Here and there the masses of syncytium are thickened and resemble very large multiinicleated giant cells, with prolongations running into the intervillous spaces. It is to be noted that no structure at all like this is to be found on the surface of the decidua vera, one among several reasons which lead us to believe that it is of foetal origin. Processes of it extend into the substance of the decidua as deep as the muscular coat. In the spongy layer of the serotina are numerous small tortuous arteries; in the compact layer the arteries cannot be distinguished from the veins ; there are numerous sinuses which may be dilated capillaries, and some of them can be seen to open into intervillous spaces and to contain masses of syncytium attached to the wall. The surface of the chorion which is opposed to the decidua serotina is thickly covered with much branched villi. They show a thick layer of syncytium and a comparatively thin under- lying cellular layer. Both on the general chorionic surface and on the villi are little projections of the syncytium. The mesoblast of the chorion and that which forms the cores of the villi has a denser and a more fibrillated appearance than in the earlier weeks, and here and there it forms a sort of basement membrane under the cellular or Langhans' layer. In the smaller villi the mesoblast is of a mucoid type ; and capillaries exist in most of them, whether small or large. Among the villi are irregularly shaped pieces of syncytium, and clumjjs of decidual cells with pieces of Langhans' layer attached to them. The decidual masses may show signs of fibrinous or hyaline degeneration. The attachment of the villi to the serotina seems to be by means of the proliferated mass of cells of Langhans' layer at the tips ; apparently the syncytium has nothing to do with it. The villi are attached at no regular intervals, by a main stem or by branches, and at right angles or obliquely to the surface. From the chorionic surface which is opposed to the decidua reflexa not nearly so many villi spring ; they are less branched, show very few bud-like jDrojections, are poorly siipplied with capillaries, and some- times contain connective tissue whicli is swollen or hyaline. From the foregoing description it will be learned that the decidual and chorionic invest- ments of the embryo have not altered greatly from what existed in the two preceding weeks. The space, however, between the vera and reflexa is much smaller, and the reflexa already has begun to show retrogressive changes. The glands, also, of all the decidual membranes are in a more or less marked state of degeneration ; this is true even of the serotina, in which, however, the other parts are as yet in full activity. There is a still further development of the chorion and its villi opposed to the decidua serotina; and, although there is not here a separate and recognisable placenta, there is the physiological equivalent of that organ. The im- portant part played by the foetal tissues in the construction of the placenta is also quite apparent. The amniotic sac has now increased with the marked growth of the embryo, so that the space (extra - embryonic coelom) between it and the inner surface of the chorionic vesicle has practi- cally disappeared. The histological characters of the membrane scarcely alter, but the matrix between its two layers becomes somewhat con- densed and fibrillated. The yolk-sac or um- bilical vesicle has much the same size as in the fourth week; it is obviously being left behind by the embryo in the progress of ontogenesis, for its useful part is played already. Conse- quently the vitelline circulation is atrophying. The great characteristics of the extra-embryonic structures in the sixth week are the growing importance of the chorionic villi which face the decidua serotina, with the consequent estaljlish- ment ere long of a true and anatomically recog- nisable placenta, and the dwindling of the decidua reflexa and umbilical vesicle. One of the great rearrangements of ontogenesis is in progress. By its means intra-uterine existence is to be prolonged for seven months or more. The Embryo in the Sixth Week The embryo at the sixth week measures from 14 to 17 or 18 mm. in length. The increase in