151 EPIDEMIOLOGY earlier in years when it is epidemic than in non- epidemic years. Tliis is a point of considerable practical importance, inasmiicli as when a rise is observed in the cases or deaths from any of these diseases at the period when they are mm'/m/.'/mwm wmwmmimsi wmff/MMMrm f/mfffmv/w/M WitW/A V///^////i fmvmwm'tm •mv/m/mmi miw/mmvm Chart v.—QiKuii'ily iiiciili-nci- (■! Mc_':isles (Loudon) in epidemic and non-i'pidemic years. usually at their minimum, precautions should 1)6 taken against an impending outbreak. AsSOCIATlOyiS AND ANTAGONISMS OF EPIDEMIC Diseases.—The physician who attended John Evelyn for small-]iox in Geneva in 1646 justified his having bled his patient before the appear- ance of the eruption by saying that b\it for the bleeding tiie distemper would have turned to plague or spotted fever. Few doubted at that time that diseases so widely dii^'erent as plague, small-pox, and spotted fever could be converted one into the other, under changing constitutions of the atmosphere, or as a result of treatment. It was another common belief in tiie Middle Ages, supposed to be supjiorted by observation, that an unusual prevalence of small-pox, measles, spotted fevers, or agues hei'alded an outljreak of plague. Concoregio (1438) says: Multipli- cantur autem prtccipue variolaj, et sic ad ex- pcrientiam visum est, in anno, qui prtccedit pestilentiam futuram de proximo. Et est tan- cpiam signum ])rognosticum ejus, quando ultra consuetum veuiunt." In tlie same way Bacon affirms that " the lesser infections of small-pox, purple fever, and agues in the preceding summer, hovering all winter, do portend a great pestilence in the following summer." Spotted fevers of miwonted malignity preceded the outbreaks of plague in London in 1625 and 1665, the plagiie of Nimeguen in 1636, that of Naples in 1656, and of Moscow in 1771 ; and it umst be remembered that spotted fevers and agues were then so common that one or other was almost sure to precede any outbreak of plague. We have already alhided to Haeser's doc- trine, founded, as he believes, on historical evidence, that the exanthemata, diphtheria, and dysentery prevail together for a long series of years, and then give place to the typhus class of maladies. The scattered records of disease before the registration era form, we think, an insecure basis for this deduction. Since registration began in England we have had four groujas of years marked by an extra- ordinary prevalence of small-pox, scarlet fever, and measles, and, curiously enough, these were on each occasion—contrary to Haeser's doctrine —associated with typhus. These pieriods were 1838-40, 1847-48, 1862-64, and 1869-72. The first three of these periods were times of much distress, which may explain the prevalence of typhus, but the considerable recrudescence of the disease, which took place in 1869-71, can- not be so accomited for. The great prevalence of small-pox, scarlet fever, and measles in these years seems to point to some atmospheric con- ditions which favoured their spread. Sydenham held that as one nail drives out another, so one epidemic disease displaces an- other ; but experience proves that two or more epidemic maladies, affecting the same or dif- ferent age-periods, may prevail in the same place and at the same time. Witness the frequent association of epidemics of typhus and small-pox, of typhus and dysentery, of diph- tlieria and scarlet fever and measles. Nor does an epidemic disease extinguish for the time common forms of sickness, as some have asserted. Thucydides remarked that the year in which Chart VI.—Quarterly incidence of 8niall-pox (London) in non- epidemic and epidemic years. the plague raged in Athens was notably free from other diseases; and Sydenham says that the year of the great plague of London was in other respects healthy, " so that all who kept clear of the plague never were better than then." Wiien a large portion of a population