GOUT 514 ducing the stifFenings and deformity arising from recurrent articular attacks. The Droit- wich waters are only available for external use. Aix-les-Bains, Aix-la-Chapelle, and Schlangenbad occupy a deservedly prominent place in the list of foreign spas. Chronic and Irregular Gout.—In addition to those already mentioned, we have in this country Cheltenham, Lamington, Harrogate, and Strath- peffer. The sulphurous waters of Harrogate, Strathpeffer, and Llandrindod, are especially useful in gouty affections of the skin and mucous membranes. Lamington is well spoken of for cases of gouty glycosuria. The various foreign spas in virtue of their varying chemical composition lend themselves more readily to further differentiation. Thus we find Vichy, Homburg, Kissingen, Vals, and Wiesbaden especially useful in cases of chronic gastric and intestinal derangements. In states of plethora with hepatic torpidity, Carlsbad and Marienbad are more appropriate, and for urinary disorders Contrexeville, Neuenahr, and Vichy, deservedly occupy a high place. The sulphur waters of Aix- la-Chapelle, Aix-les-Bains, Baden (Switzerland), and Soden (foot of Taunus mountains), are good for cutaneous disorders and catarrhal states of the various mucous membranes. Soden is a quiet, little, attractive place practically unknown to English visitors, but its numerous springs compare most favourably with those of much better-known places. Schwalbach and Pyrmont are two other very attractive health resorts, and are especially good for anaemic, debilitated, gouty subjects. In view of the great value of medical gymnastics, especially when combined with balneological treatment, it may be well to mention the leading spas which have a fully equipped mechanico-therapeutic institute. These are Aix-la-Chapelle, Baden-Baden, Wiesbaden, Wildbad. It is unfortunate that in this country, where gout has, as it were, its headquarters, more attention is not paid in our medical schools to instruction in dietetics and in mechanico- therapy — the two fundamentally important factors in treatment. Acute Gout—Recent Attacks These cases are the most suitable for the attainment of an excellent result, and the more recent the attacks the more hope there is of a speedy and permanent beneficial result. Need- less to say the details of treatment will vary, depending on the constitution of the patient and the nature and strength of the waters em- ployed. The course should last not less than five or six weeks, and its daily routine should be along the following lines : — Diet. — The dietetic treatment should be conducted along lines already laid down, the food being simple, and composed mainly of light animal foods, eggs, vegetables, and the more easily digested bread stuffs. Preferably no alcohol or wines should be taken, but if that is not feasible, whisky and potash, or lithia water, or a little sound claret are the most suitable. On no account should liquors be mixed. Exercise.— Ample exercise should be taken, a course of passive movements supplementing the patient's own exertion in the matter. There is much more danger in delay in moving the affected joint than there is in unduly exercising it at an early stage. In the case of the upper extremity there is greater necessity for a special course of passive movements. Baths.—If patient is a robust subject, he should take a curative bath daily, but in weakly or nervous subjects every other day will suffice, at any rate at the outset. A feeling of slight excitement, a sense of general discomfort, loss of appetite, or sleeplessness, are indications pointing to the advisability of pro- longing the intermissions, or it may be, dimin- ishing the temperature and strength of the bath. During this treatment it is not an un- common experience for acute pains to develop in the aifected joints, even a further acute attack may supervene. Such occurrences are usually ascribed to the searching nature of the remedy, and if not immoderate need not be regarded with disfavour. The best time for the bath is the early morning, an hour to an hour and a half before breakfast, and it should be taken on an empty stomach. (To those patients who cannot or will not bathe fasting a cup of coffee or tea may be allowed.) The temperature of bath ranges from 80° to 105° F., and depends on the susceptibilities of the patient. He should remain up to the neck in water, and continue to exercise the affected joints by active move- ments, and by friction and kneading of the parts. The duration of the bath should be from eight to ten minutes to start with, and be gradually increased up to twenty or thirty minutes. The duration, however, largely de- pends on the temperature of the bath. After drying and using moderate friction with a roughish towel patient should lie down for half or three-quarters of an hour, and thereafter dress himself in clothing appropriate to the time of year. He will then be ready for his break- fast. The warmer baths should only be used for stronger and more vigorous subjects, as they are liable to upset more weakly or nervous ones. Drinking Cure.—This consists in drinking the waters in an amount varying from one and two pints thrice daily on an empty stomach, e.g. 8 A.M., between 11.30 and 12.30, and between 4 and 5 p.m. As a rule no further measures are called for, but the use of the douches and various forms of local hot-air or other applica- tions are useful in appropriate cases. A Case of Chronic Gout with Irregular Manifesta t ions Here the regulations already laid down for diet and exercise should be even more strin-