227 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF parts, turned round and stitched into its new place. Or a flap of thin skin may be detached from a distant part of the body and stitched into position. As such detached flaps always shrink, both wiien they are dissected out and also when they have taken root, it will be necessary when marking out its size and shape to allow at least one-third for shrinkage. Or, in very severe cases, after preparing the area the edges of the lids are imited with sutures, and the raw surface is then allowed to granulate over until it is ready to be covered with skin grafts. Owing to the subsequent shrinkage which takes place in all these cases it will prol)ably be necessary to repeat the operation at a later date. Ankyloblepharon.—Ankyloblepharon, which consists in the union of the margins of the lids only, is usually associated with symblepharon, where the lids are adherent to the globe. Both conditions are due to the healing together of raw surfaces produced by some injury or disease, such as burns, diphtheritic ophthalmia, pemphigus of the conjunctiva, etc. When the margins of the lids are joined to- gether, without any adhesion being present between the lids and the globe, their separa- tion is effected by dividing the scar of their union with scissoi-s, and keeping the raw surfaces apart by everting the lower lid by strapping. When the adhesion involves the canthus, it will be necessary to iinite a piece of conjunctiva to the skin at the angle of the lids to prevent their rcadhesion. Symblepharon. — Symblepharon is the cica- tricial adhesion of the lids to the globe, produced by the partial or comjDlete destruction of the conjunctiva. It occurs after burns, injuries, and such diseases as diphtheria and pemphigus, which denude the opposing surfaces of the ocular and palpebral conjunctiva. When the adhesion does not include the fornix, so that a probe can be passed lieneath it, the condition is called anterior symblepharon, and can be remedied by dividing the adhesion and stitching together the contiguous edges of the ocular conjunctiva, leaving the raw surface on the lid to granulate. Posterior symblepharon implies the destruc- tion of the fornix, and may be |)artial or complete ; in the latter case the conjunctival sac is obliterated, and, as the lids are adherent to the cornea, the vision is practically destroyed. The treatment of cases of partial symble- pharon is far from satisfactory in the majority of instances, and therefore, if the condition does not give rise to lu-gent symptoms, it is better to wait \intil the scar has had time to become soft and elastic, when, often, it is found that all discomfort has subsided. The reason of the failure to keep the lids apart in complete symble[)haron is that healing takes place from the bottom of the cul-de-sac. and pushes up any grafts or portions of the conjinictiva or skin wliicii have been trans- planted there. Blepharophijiosis.—Blepharophimosis, which consists of an apparent shortening of the length of the palpebral fissure, produced by a fold of skin being dragged in front of the outer canthus, is associated with, and is directly produced b}', affections of the conjunctiva, which give rise to blepharospasm. The condition subsides when the primary cause disappears, or it can be cured in the same way as blepharospasm by the operation of canthoplasty, which is performed in the follow- ing manner. The patient being antesthetised, the outer ends of the lids are put on the stretch and held slightly apart, while the palpebral fissure is enlarged by dividing the tissues at the outer canthus with a pair of bhmt - pointed scissors, one blade of which is passed into the conjunctival sac. If the contraction of the fissure is very marked the palpebral ligament should be divided vertically up to the orbital margin by cutting it thi'ough with the scissors passed into the wound, where the sharp edge of the fascia can be felt, between the skin and conjunctiva, when the upper lid is put upon the stretch. If it is intended to produce a permanent enlai'gement of the fissure, the con- junctiva and skin are united together at the outer angle of the wound by a suture, and two other sutures are inserted similarly in the upper and lower parts of the wound. If only a temporary effect is required the sutures are not inserted. Lagophthalmos.—Lagophthalmos exists when the lids do not meet together during sleep. This may be due to a congenital or pathological shortness of the lids, to ectropion, to a paresis, or paralysis of the orbicularis, or to the globe being too large or too prominent for the lids to close over it. The effect this condition produces will depend upon the degree to which the eye is exposed. When the chink is narrow it may only cause a slight chronic conjunctival irrita- tion, but when a part or the whole of the cornea is exposed, the latter may inflame and ulcerate, or become opaque, and lead to partial or to complete loss of sight. When the lids are too short congenitally there is no remedy beyond the regular use of a borax or boric acid lotion to keep the con- junctival sac clean. If the condition is due to, or is associated with, sycosis or eczema, then the treatment for these affections shoidd be carried out; and when it is due to ectropion an appro- priate operation should be performed. The exposure of the eye which occurs during prolonged unconsciousness, in any illness, is to be remedied by bathing the eyes with boric acid lotion and keeping the lids closed with a narrow piece of strapping. For paralytic lagophthalmos a protecting