180 ERYTHEMA roseolous form, but there is a tendency for them to be rather more severe in character, and this is especially true of the accompanying sore throat. The rash differs from that of roseola only in its elementary lesions, the capricious distribution being found in the scarlatiniform just as was described in the roseolous. At the beginning of the eruptive stage the rash is seen to consist of well-defined punctiform macules, quite indistinguishable from those of scarlatina, and these soon run together to form large sheets of continuous redness. The differential dia- gnosis from mild cases of scarlatina is often extremely difficult, but the following points may prove of service. The prodi'omal stage of scarlatina is usually much more severe and of more definite duration than that of E. scarla- tiniforme. The constitutional symptoms are more severe throughout in the specific fever, and the throat is much more swollen, tonsillitis being very rare in the scarlatiniform erythema. The duration of the eruption may be the same (two to six days) in the two diseases, but in E. scarlatiniforme the rash generally turns to a peculiar brownish yellow colour as it fades, and Besnier has called attention to the fact that desquamation is already beginning while the rash is at its height. Lastly, the desquamation is generally only branny in character in the erythema, though in severe cases the horny layer may be shed in larger casts. Mention must here be made of a disease described by Fereol in 1876 under the name of " Pseudo-exantheme scarlatiniforme recidivant," but now more genez'ally called " Erythema scarlatiniforme desquamativum." The true position of this disease is still a matter of some doubt, some authorities placing it with Der- matitis exfoliativa, while others describe it with the erythemata. The disease commences with general malaise, and sometimes with chills, anginal sore throat, and albuminuria. The rash comes out exactly similar to that of E. scarla- tiniforme, but instead of dying away in a few days it often persists for a month, or even longer, the temperature usually falling while the eruption is still at its height. Desquamation is generally very marked, and occurs in coarse flakes. The disease has a strong tendency to recur in the same individual, chiefly in the spring and autumn. The etiology, pathology, and treatment of these forms of generalised erythema are so closely allied to, if not identical with those of Hebra's Erythema multiforme that it will save repetition if they are all discussed together. (B) Erythema exmclativum multiforme. — This group, probably the most important of all the erythemata, we owe to the genius of Fer- dinand Hebra, who collected a series of eruptions known by different names, and pointed out that they were all stages of the same disease. Although his conception was perhaps too cir- cumscribed, and has consequently been slightly amended, it remains to this day the basis upon which all descriptions of the disease are founded. For convenience of arrangement the different forms of eruption will first be described indi- vidually, then the symptoms and complication in other organs, and pathology, will be dis- cussed for all forms together. Typks op Eruption.—(a) Erythema papula- turn.—This may be considered as the simplest form of eruption occurring in E. multiforme. It is characterised by the sudden outbreak of papules varying in size from that of a large millet seed to that of a split pea. The papules are formed by exudation into the corium and upper part of the hypoderm, and are elevated above the general cutaneous surface in hemi- spherical form. They are moderately hard to the touch, and the epidermis over them is tense and shining. Their colour varies from a florid red on their first appearance to a yellowish red in the centre of old papules, or sometimes a bluish, cyanotic appearance. The rash fades completely on pressure at first, but as there is often some diapedesis of red blood corpuscles later on there is a slight yellowish stain left after the hyper£emia is pressed out. After the dis- appearance of the eruption there is often a slight desquamation of the horny layer, but this is not a marked feature. The distribution is most commonly on the upper and lower ex- tremities, the backs of the hands and feet, though these are by no means invariably attacked, as has been stated, and the face and neck, other parts, such as the trunk, being less often attacked. The eruption does not usually become confluent, and is usually scattered with- out any definite arrangement beyond following the lines of cleavage, but sometimes a crescentic arrangement may he observed. (Ij) E. tuherculatmn.— This form may arise either primarily or by the centrifugal extension of the papules of the previous form. The lesions are larger and are situated rather deeper in the corium, thus possessing a more spherical shape ; they are also usually rather harder than those of E. papulatum, owing to the greater amount of exudation into the surrounding tissues. The site, arrangement, and other characteristics are similar to those already described under E. papulatum. (c) E. annulatum.—This is usually a secondaiy development from E. papulatum. The papules spread centrifugally while involution occurs in the centre, so that a red, raised ring is formed with a dusky purplish centre. Such rings in the course of their extension may show peculiar changes of colour. In the centre, as already stated, the colour is of a purple, cyanotic hue, due no doubt to the passive hypersemia left after the absorption of the previous exudation. The raised, active part is usually of a florid red