311 FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF of the primitive streak the cells of the inner layer (entoderm) also proliferate and come into contact with the ectoderm, a narrow cleft separating the two layers elsewhere. From this line of contact a third layer of cells is developed, which spreads out in the interval between the outer and inner layers; it is de- I'ived mainly from the ectoderm, but also in part from the ento- derm. The Uastoderm is now trilaminar, the layers being termed epihlast, mesohlast, and hypoblast from witliout inwards ; from these layers all the tissues of the body are idtimately developed. Soon after the appearance of the mesoblast a shallow, longitu- dinal groove, the mednllary f/roove, is formed on the embryonic area in front of the primitive streak. It is produced by the formation of two parallel folds of epiVilast called the medullary folds. These grow over to meet one another, and coalesce in the middle line, forming an included canal with an epiblast lining, the neural canal, from which tiie central nervous system is developed (Fig. 4). During these changes the primitive streak disajjpears. Wliile the neural canal is develop- ing there is formed beneath it a solid rod of hypoblast cells, the notochord (Fig. 4). At the sides of the neural canal a great development of mesoblast cells takes place, forming large lateral masses which become marked out by transverse grooves into a row of solid blocks called the mesoblastic somites. From these cell-masses most of the skeletal and muscular tissues of the body are developed. At the same time that the mesoblastic somites are formed the outlying parts of the mesoblast split into two layers : the outer becomes applied to the epiblast, and the two together form the somato-pleure ; the inner becomes similarly applied to the hypolilast, the two together form- ing the splanchno-pleure. The space between the somato-pleure and splanchno-pleure is the Cd-loni or primitive body-cavity (Fig. 4). It will be understood that the above- mentioned changes have taken place upon a certain small area of the blastodermic vesicle, and of course within the zona radiata. The next step is the delimitation of the outlines of the embr^'o by the formation of the anterior, posterior, and two lateral limiting sulci. At the same time the embryonic area begins to recede towards the centre of the blastodermic vesicle—sinking that is into its interior, and leaving a space between it and the enclosing zona radiata. A period has now been reached at which certain structures designed to provide for the protection and nutrition of the embryo make their appearance. These are the fatal envelopes or memljranes called the chorion and zona pellueida. (Playfair.) the amnion. The fmiction of the amnion is protective; the chorion serves to bring the embryo into union with the maternal structure, its function being therefore mainly nutritive. The foetal membranes are developed from folds of the somato-jjleure which grow up from the head and tail ends and lateral boundaries of the embryo, and pass over its dorsal surface in the space between it and the zona radiata. Gradually they coalesce, forming a closed hood, which consists of a central core of mesoblast with an internal and external covering of epi- blast (Fig. 4). Tlie mesoblast layer now splits into two, and fluid collects between the two halves ; there is thus formed a double hood, the outer layer consisting of an outer covering of epiblast with mesoblast within, and the inner layer consisting of an inner covering of epiblast with mesoblast outside it. The outer layer be- comes the chorion, the inner layer the amnion. The chorion now becomes closely applied to the zona radiata, and fuses with the extra-embryonic portion of the epiblast, i.e. that portion of the wall of the blastodermic vesicle which was not concerned in the formation of the embryonic area. The amnion closely invests the dorsal surface of the embryo, and a small quantity of fluid collects within it, but during the early weeks of development the amniotic sac is very