ECZEMA 34 strengthen the vaso-motor control, to regulate nerve action, to reduce the tendency to gan- glionic explosions, is able also to render service in the cure of eczema. There is no specific drug nor any single line of treatment to be followed by blind routine. Most internal reme- dies, which custom has generally approved, often fail because they are given aimlessly. Ergot, strychnine, quinine, ichthyol have done good service in properly chosen cases, but the list of their failures is not a small one. Climate and Atmospheric Influences.—Patients suffering from irritable nervous eczema should be careful to avoid maritime climates and loca- lities exposed to brine-laden winds. But the more phlegmatic forms of eczema are often benefited by sea or ocean air. We may take it as a rule that inland localities are preferable, provided they are neither damp nor I'elaxing. It is the excellent situation of Hari'Ogate which has helped to establish its high reputation as a health resort for eczema patients. We must never forget that the therapeutic value of i " change of air" is partly to be attributed to what is neither air nor climate, but the fact that the patient leaves behind him his worries and fretful circumstances. He is not likely to be much benefited unless he can go away with an easy mind. And this must be considered before giving him advice on the matter. Diet.—The importance of diet in eczema is commonly exaggerated. As a rule more harm than good results from meddlesome interference with the natui'al instincts for food. Experience has taught the writer that in the vast majority of cases of eczema it is unnecessary to specially diet the patient, provided of course there are no complications arising from over-indulgence or injudicious habits of eating and drinking. The exceptions to this statement are the neurotic and gouty cases, in which a purely milk diet for a few days during and subsequent to the climax of the attack is of decided benefit. The gouty man should be encouraged to partake liberally of vegetables, especially spinach and Brussels sprouts. As regards wines and spirits, all alcohol should be interdicted during the attack. For the gouty the safest drink after recovery is probably whisky well diluted with water or salutaris. A little sound claret or hock is permissible. Part II. Clinical Types of Eczema—Their Diagnosis and Treatment It is impossible to portray all the symptoms of eczema in its several forms within the limits of a single picture. But if the designs are almost innumerable, they are nevertheless all drawn by the exudate and coloured by the blood. Out of these two elements are con- structed an infinite number of pictures, accord- ing as we have more or less blood fluxion and more or less exudation. Thus an abundant serous exudate approaching the surface against resistance produces, with the hypersemia, the picture of vesicular eczema. If there is little or no resistance to the escape, the plasma exudes in a general ooze, as in eczema rubrum. The dry- ing and coagulation of the plasma on the sur- face produces scabs. The casting off of the injured a'dematous epithelium in thin membran- ous or bran-like portions produces scaling, and, if deeper portions of the epitheliiim are thrown off, scabs. If the exudate is so moderate in quantity as not to be visible on the surface, it results in a circular, circumscribed "dry " patch, more or less coloured according to the degree of blood fluxion. The picture is further modified according to the stage of repair, the aspect being scaly, scabby, and rough before separation has occurred. On the other hand, when the new horny layer is just complete, and the old one has been thrown off, the aspect is that of a glazed, polished surface, often of a livid colour, owing to the extreme slowness of the capillary flow and the relatively excessive quantity of suboxidised blood. Since no two cases of eczema are likely to be in precisely the same stage of evolution when seen by the medical adviser, and as every square inch of eczematous skin may include different stages of the process of expur- gation at the same time, it is quite obvious that the several types of eczema cannot be made to depend on its lesions. I. General Character of the Accidental Eczemas. —(See p. 26.) There is nothing absolutely distinctive in the characters of the accidental eczemas, and in some cases it is hard to distin- guish them from the true intrinsic eczemas. Usually, however, the following points deter- mine the diagnosis :—(1) history, suddenness of onset, rapidity of course; (2) the sharp limita- tion of the eruption to the area of external irritation; (3) often (but not necessarily) the uniformity of the lesions; (4) the presence of excessive deep-seated oedema; (5) intensity of the process with excessive exudation. II. General Character of the Intrinsic Eczemas. I. Acute Eczema.—The words "acute" and " chronic " are employed in this article merely to denote the pressure at which the exudate enters and passes through the epithelium, and are not intended to indicate the duration of the course. An acute or high-pressure eczema is preceded by a sensation of burning and itching in some part of the cutaneous surface, where a diffused or punctate redness soon becomes visible. The spot becomes hotter and more irritable, and there is an irresistible impulse to rub or scratch it. The usual smoothness and firmness of the surface disappears; it becomes softer and moister, also puffy and swollen; vesicles appear, and, slowly or quickly pushing out the cuticle, cause it to break ; the plasma exudes on to the free sui'face, and dries to a scab. Around the primary focus tlie eruption