ERYTHEMA 181 owing to the arterial hyperajmia still present, and surrounding this there is often a yellowish, somewhat translucent zone of oedeniatous skin in which tlio blood-vessels are compressed by the exudation. This arrangement has given rise to the name E. iris, a term which is also applied to another form, described below, and better known as Herpes iris. With the progressive enlargement of the rings it is obvious that two or more rings may intersect one another, and, in obedience to the law of all centrifugally extending skin diseases, the parts of the rings within the points of contact disappear. In this way peculiar curved figures are formed, to which the name E. gyratmn has been given. In some cases this actively advancing edge may continue spreading over large areas, so that only a marginal redness is seen enclosing dis- coloured skin. To this condition the term E. marginatum has been given, but this seems to be an entirely unnecessary refinement of momen- clature. (li) Herpes iris or E. iris.—-This is yet another modification of the primitive papule. The essential change in this variety is the formation of a vesicle or bulla by the raising of the whole or part of the epidermis by the exudation. Two forms of the disease are generally described, both of them luicoramon, but one much rarer than the other. The commoner form begins as a small papule in the centre of which a vesicle rapidly forms. In the same manner as described under E. annulatum the papule enlarges cen- trifugally, and the vesicle formation follows this enlargement. There is thus formed a small disc-shaped blister situated on a red base. As the lesion still further increases in size there is a tendency to resolution in the centre, which gives rise either to a purple stain surrounded by a ring-shaped vesicle, or perhaps more frequently the exact centre of the lesion is occupied by dark red scab caused by the dry- ing up of the central vesicle, in the serum of which there were contained some red l)lood corpuscles. Since the vesicle in E. multiforme is generally situated rather deeply in the epi- dermis, a curious pearly grey appearance is seen where the exuded serum is, as is commonly the case, small in amount. There is thiis produced in many cases a remarkable play of colours, from which the name Iris is derived. In the centre is seen the dark red scab, outside this is a zone of purple passive hypcra^mia over which the fluid has been partially absorbed or evapo- rated, outside this again is the pearly grey colour of the recent vesicle, surrounded by a narrow l)and of active hj'per.xnnia, and lastly by a pale yellowish areola of anannic a!dematous -skin. The size of the developed lesions of this form varies from that of a threepenny piece to, rarely, a five-shilling piece. The otlier form is not quite so clearly related to the ordinary varieties of E. multiforme. It begins with a vesicle wiiich enlarges to form a bulla, and is then surrounded with rows of discrete vesicles, but with little erythematous redness. (e) E. nodosum.—The identity of this disease with E. multiforme is denied by some writers, though all admit the close relationship. The tendency at present is, however, apparently becoming more and moi'e general in favour of including it with the forms just described. The main reason for this is its common occurrence on the lower extremities in patients who have the papidar or tubercular form elsewhere, and as regards the alleged objection that E. nodosum often occurs without any of the other forms, this is true of any given type of the disease. The lesions are situated more deeply in the corium than in any of tlie previously-described forms, extending indeed right through the hypo- derm. They appear as large nodes, varying in size from that of a small nut to that of a pigeon's egg, or sometimes even larger. The nodes vary in colour, being sometimes of a darkish purple, sometimes florid pink. Their consistency is less hard and more elastic than that of the papular and tubercular forms, and they have the additional pecidiarity of being painful and extremely tender to the touch. In some cases thei'e seems to be distinct fluctuation, and cases have been described in which they have softened and burst, but this is, at all events, extremely rare. The site of predilection is the front of the shin and lower leg generally; in fact, so much is this the case that one seldom sees really typical nodes elsewhere, though they do occur along the ulnar border of the forearm and occasionally on the face. When fading the nodes go through all the changes observed in the healing of an ordinary bruise, and hence the synonym Dermatitis contusiformis. Duration of E. multiforme.—The individual lesions do not as a rule last more than a few days, but since successive crops are apt to come out, the disease as a whole usTially lasts from two to four weeks. On tlie other hand, cases have been published in which the disease has lasted from two months to several years (E. per- stans). As regards the relative duration of the different types of lesion, the papular usually disappears most quickly, while the nodose and bullous forms last the longest. General Symptoms and Complications in OTHER Organs.—Tlie constitutional symptoms of E. multiforme arc variable in the extreme. Many cases riai their entire course with nothing but a little burning at the sites of the eruption, on the other hand patients are occasionally so severely aff'ected that they pass into the typhoid state, from which, however, they generally re- cover. If one is justified at all in describing a typical course for such a variable disease, the following would perhaps correspond to what one might term an average case. After pro-