GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 408 less in degree, and the inflammatory infiltration shows more or less advanced organisation with the development of fibrous tissue which has partially replaced the glands of the mucosa. They are, in fact, exactly similar to those found in the intestine in some cases of diarrhoea {vide p. 415). The importance of these changes is in the light they throw on the intractable wasting which too often follows chronic vomiting in an infant. Dilatation of the Stomach is present in some of these cases; perhaps especially where a chronic gastric catarrh is associated with rickets; the writer has found considerable dilatation in such cases. It has been shown that in the chronic dyspepsia of infants the food remains in the stomach longer than normal, and sometimes even clinically enlargement of the stomach can be detected, but anything like a chronic dilatation of the stomach, such as would give rise to the characteristic symptoms associated with such a condition in adults, is practically unknown in infancy, except in such obstructive conditions as congenital hypertrophy of the pylorus. Treatment.—Vomiting, gastric in origin, is nearly always due to some fault in feeding, and sometimes all that is needed is a carefiil revision of diet. Where it is a symptom of diseases other than those of the gastro-intestinal tract, usually no special treatment is required. In an acute attack of vomiting due to faulty feed- ing, the evacuation of the irritant is usually sufficiently accomplished by the vomiting, but in some cases recovery may be hastened by making the evacuation more thorough, either by washing out the stomach through a soft catheter passed through the nose or mouth, or, as recommended by Dr. Holt, by giving the infant warm water in large quantity as an emetic. In severe cases of vomiting it is advisable to stop all feeding by the mouth for a few hours, and then to feed only with very minute quantities at short inter- vals. A teaspoonful of cold water with 5-10 drops of brandy every half-hour will be quite enough for a few hours; sometimes hot water seems more useful. Infants at the breast must only be allowed to suck for a very short time, and in some cases it is better to try albumin water or whey in small quantities for some hours before returning to the breast. Albumin water (the white of one raw egg cut up with scissors and shaken with half a pint of water, strained, and flavoured with a small quantity of cinnamon water or dill water) is often useful for a short time in any case of acute vomiting. Few foods are more vakiable either in acute or chronic vomiting than whey, especially sherry- whey (made by heating half a pint of milk just to the boiling-point, then adding a good wine- glassful of sherry, heating to boiling-point again, and when the curd has settled, strain- ing through muslin). A teaspoonful, gradually increased to a tablespoonful, of whey may be given frequently, and sometimes the addition of one or two drops of sal volatile to the plain whey checks the vomiting. When the attack has passed off the digestion is often much im- paired, casein particularly seems to be digested with difliculty, and it may be necessary to peptonise the milk, or to use a humanised milk for a time. In chronic vomiting the feeding is generally the most important consideration. Sometimes one food, sometimes another is successful, and it is often necessary to try several before a suitable one can be found. Whey, peptonised milk, humanised milk, prepared foods, especially the malted foods, are all useful at times. What- ever food is given, it must be given in small quantities, at short intervals, according to the age. In any case of vomiting in which all food is persistently rejected, feeding through a tube passed down the oesophagus, either from the nose or mouth, is worthy of trial. Sedative drugs are often of value, especially in acute cases after the stomach has been emptied. A mixture of bismuth and soda is generally use- ful, and a small dose of tinct. opii (TTl_|-| three times a day for an infant six months old) may be added to this, or hydrocyanic acid (l1l^^ for an infant four months old) with sod. bicarb, and some aromatic may be given. In the chronic cases these drugs are of less value; and small doses of grey powder given two or three times a day, alone or with soda, are more likely to be useful; sometimes papain (gr. j.-ij.) or pepsin (gr. j. with three or four meals a day) will do good by assisting digestion. Where the vomit is particularly sour or frothy, creasote is sometimes very effectual. Very severe and persistent vomiting, especially in acute cases, may sometimes be checked by counter- irritation in the shape of a mustard plaster to the epigastrium. The value of stomach-washing is perhaps hardly sufficiently appreciated. Vomiting may be checked by only one or two washings with plain hot water or with a weak solution of sod. bicarb, (gr. ij. to sj.). This is specially useful where the presence of mucus in the vomit shows that there is some gastric catarrh ; where there is evidence of fermentation, resorcin (1 in 1000) may be used for the washing. Recurrent Vomiting {Periodic or Cyclic Vomiti'iiff).—It is convenient to mention this rare disorder here, although it is probably rather a nervous than a digestive disorder. It begins sometimes in infancy (in one case under the writer's notice it began at the age of six months), but more often after the first denti- tion. It is most common in children of nervous, excitable temperament. Symptoms.—At intervals of a few months attacks of vomiting occur without apparent cause. The child is languid and depressed.