29 ECZEMA intestines (tape worm), uterus (pregnancy), urethra (stricture), and eyes (after straining). To rightly estimate the importance of these constitutional disturbances we must remind ourselves of the fact that their concurrence with eczema is not the rule, but quite exceptional. How many cases of eczema do we see in which no notable constitutional disturbance of any sort is present, for one case which presents some striking constitutional event or abnormality ? The ratio doubtless varies according to the class from which we draw our patients. In cities such as New York or Loudon, where the rush and tear of life is a formidable factor of civilisa- tion, nerve exhaustion and nerve disorders must of necessity be more frequently met with in association with eczema than in quiet rural populations. The right conclusion seems to be that any pathologic;d or physiological event which lowers the cutaneous vaso-motor control, which renders the capillaries more excitable, which diminishes the cohesion of the blood, which increases the permeability of the capillary walls, which over-stimulates the epithelium, does certainly increase the liability of the skin to injury, and therefore to serous inflammation. No circumstance whatever, in the opinion of the present writer, can convert eczema into a true constitutional disease. However it may arise, it is essentially a local process—a local expurga- tion or throwing oft' of injured surface tissues. Take away the natural securities of the skin, diminish the local control below a certain point, and the ordinary perturbations of common life are quite sufficient to produce eczema. 4. Relations of Eczema to Gout.—The pop^ilar notion that eczema is very frequently of gouty origin is open to grave criticism. Not only is there no proof that the uric acid compounds can directly originate eczema, but the evidence, so far as it goes, points to the opposite conclusion, (jout is rare under twenty years of age, but the formation of uric acid is known to be greatest in early life, liecent researches have shown that uric acid may be present in the blood without the development of gout (see " Gout"). .Sir Alfred Garrod has pointed out that the failure on the part of the kidneys to eliminate uric acid is not accompanied by a vicarious excretion of this principle by the skin. But the most direct proof of all is the tolerance of the skin for uratic deposits. The formation of tophi in the external eai-, and in the neighbour- hood of the joints, is not accompanied or followed by an eczematous eruption. On the other hand, it cannot l)e denied that gouty persons are prone to eczema. In the experience of Sir Alfred (iarrod about 30 per cent of gouty subjects suffer from eczema. In the opinion of the present writer it is not the uric acid, but the nerves of the gouty man which jjredispose him to eczema. That inherited type of peculiar tissue metabolism which culminates in gout is accompanied by an attenuation of the resistive power of the skin, which makes the patient less able to resist the effects of surface injury. There is nothing to distinguish gouty eczema objectively from many other forms of intrinsic eczema. It is usually confined to localities where the capillary circulation is below the average velocity, or where it is apt to be interfered with, and which, from their exposed position, are specially liable to' injury, such, for example, as the face, ears, hands and feet, flexures and genital region. III. Mycosiform Eczemas.—The hypothesis that eczema is of parasitic origin finds its chief advocate in Unna, who goes so far as to assert that the disease is a uniform one both as regards its histology and etiology. It would serve no useful purpose to discuss this difficult matter in the present imperfect state of our knowledge. I shall, therefore, content myself with a brief statement of the facts which have been added to our stock of information within recent years. There is good ground for believing (1) that several forms of living cryptogamic vegetations exist in the serous and fatty exudate of the mycosiform eczemas ; (2) that the microbic forms at present isolated are the bottled - shaped bacillus, the micro - bacillus, and the diplococcus of Unna (morococcus); (3) that the morococcus is allied, morphologically and biologically, to the staphylo- coccus albus, and that it is capable of producing impetigo - like vesicles when exjierimentaliy inoculated into the hvuuan skin; (4) that the morococcus is very jarevalent in some forms of seborrhoeic eczema, but scanty in others. The exact pathogeneity and bacteriological position of these organisms have not yet been determined, so that a bacteriological classification of the mj'cosiform eczemas is impossible in the present state of our knowledge. The bottle-shaped bacillus seems to bear no definite relation to eczema or any other cutaneous disease. They are seldom absent from moist fatty horn cells. We may infer from this that they are innocent saprophytes. The vegetations of the " micro-bacillus," an organism isolated and described by Sabouraud, are equally abundant in seborrhoea capitis and in alopecia areata, and the same bacillus is present also in the comedo of acne. Clearly it is attracted by a fatty soil, but neither its relation to seborrhcea nor the scope of its morbiferous actions is yet defined. The cocci which Unna has found in the scales and fatty discharge in so many cases of seborrhceic eczema show no very distinctive characters under the microscope. In the drier and more superficial portions of the exudate they cling together in nnilberry-like masses, a feature in their character which Unna has sought to perpetuate by naming them morococci. All that we know at present about these organisms points to their affinity with the staphylococcic group. Their sudden entrance into the prickle layer of the epithelium