417 GASTRO INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY pension, with sodium bicarbonate. Astringents are sometimes useful in such cases after the acute symptoms have passed off. Some such mixture as the following may be tried :—Tr. catechu Spirit, chloroformi 11]^ij., Mist, cretfc ad oj-; or a mixture containing lipema- toxylum, or some preparation of tannic acid, may be given. But the results of such as- tringents in any form of infantile diarrhoea arc disappointing ; in many cases they do not seem to have the least effect. A combination of acid, sulph. dil. or acid, nitric, dil. (m^ij.-iv.) with opium often does more good. If the diarrhoea does not cease after a few days the following mixture may be found effectual.—01. ricini Dl^v., Mucilag. acacite 1l|_xv., Aq. menth. pip. ad oj- There are few drugs which are more generally useful in the treat- ment of subacute or chi'onic diarrho'a than castor oil given in this way, especially if a small dose of opium, or, where the stools arc offensive, a drop of liquor hydrargyi'i porcliloridi, be added to it. In many of the more severe cases of inflam- matory diarrhoea, especially where the stools are green and oifensive, grey powder is of great vahie, and often does much good in combination with Dover's powder; thus to an infant of six months a quarter of a grain of each may be given three times a day. As to the value of antiseptics other than mercury there is some difference of opinion. In the most acute cases of summer diarrhoea the writer has not found them of much use ; but in the less acute cases, and still more when the diarrhoea has become chronic, they are some- times lielpful. Perhaps the most useful of these drugs are the salicylates : salicylate of soda (gr.ij.-iv.) especially in combination with bismuth, or bismuth salicylate itself, has certainly done good in many cases, and these prepara- tions have seemed on the wliole more effectual than salol (gr. j.-iij.). Naphthalin (gr. j.-iij.), /i-naphthol (gr. j.-iij.), glycerin acidi carbolici (liy.-ij.), and resorcin (gr. ij.-iv.) arc all worthy of trial, and have been praised by various ob- servers. The last mentioned is the most con- venient, for not only is it readily soluble in water, but it is less disagreealile in taste than the others. Creasote is specially vahiable where there is nuich tendency to abdominal distension, a con- dition which often goes with frothy liquid stools ; it may be given in half-minim doses every three or four liours with the castor oil mixture men- tioned above. In cases whei-e from the passage of mucus and blood, or from tenderness along the course of the colon, there is reason to be- lieve that the colon is chiefly affected, irrigation of the colon may be of use. This may be done once or twice a day with plain warm water or with a solution of boracic acid, or the addition of tannic acid (gr. xx.-xxx. to the pint) may be VOL. Ill tried. It is useful after the irrigation to give a small enema of starch with tincture of opium (n|_j.-iij.), and such an enema should be given in any case where great frequency of stools witli much straining or prolapse of the rectum indi- cates excessive irritability of the lower part of the intestine. Occasionally irrigation seems to be of value in cases where there is no evidence of special affection of the colon ; in acute cases of diarrhoea it has at any rate the recommenda- tion that a certain amount of the fluid is likely to be absorbed. In choleraic cases the vomiting is generally as serious as the diarrhoea, and often it is almost useless to administer drugs by the mouth. Good results have been obtained by washing out the stomach in such cases ; and a mustard jjoultice to the epigastriimi may help to check the vomit- ing. If opium can be retained it is well to give a dose of opium with brandy at first, and then bismuth may be tried. Frequent minute doses of grey powder have seemed to do good. Dr. Eustace Smith recommends a sixth of a grain of calomel every lialf-hour. In infants of twelve months or more hypodermic injections of morphia (gr. for a child of twelve months) have done good. Usually, however, these cases are so acute, and prostration is so rapid, that the most important part of treatment is free stimu- lation by one or other of the methods dcscriljed above. Chronic diarrhoea generally calls for dietetic treatment chiefly ; but some drugs are extremely useful in this condition, and none more so than the castor oil mixture mentioned above. Anti- septics also, as already pointed out, are of more service in chronic than acute conditions. The combination of grey powder with Dover's powder is specially useful, and may be given with ad- vantage in addition to the castor oil mixture. The astringents are generally useless after a diarrhoea has already continued many weeks. LiENTERic DiARRHCEA.—It is Convenient to mention this disorder here although it occurs rather in children four to ten years of age than in infants. It differs from the forms of diar- rha'a described above, inasmuch as it is quite independent of errors of diet, of infection, and of seasons. It is probably closely allied to the diarrhoea which occurs sometimes both in chil- dren and in adults as the result of fright or emotion. In a considerable proportion of these cases there is a family history of rheumatism, and the occurrence of lienteric diarrhoea in such cases is a manifestation of the nervous tempera- ment which is so often present in the children of rheumatic families. The characteristic symptom of this condition is the evacuation of the bowels immediatel}^ after every meal; sometimes, indeed, the desire to defecate comes on before the meal is finished. The motions ai'c not necessarily loose, but often contain undigested food ; as the mother says, 27