DEVELOPMENT OF 324 F(ETUS AND OVUM, absence of the uterus may be made out by dissection. The rate of growth of the foetus, both in length and weight, is subject to wide variations during the remaining months of gestation. Thus the length, as stated by Haecker, at the end of the fourth month may be as small as 10 cm. or as great as 17 cm. The rate of growth of the placenta is almost equally variable; its thickness at the end of the fourth month is, however, said to be fairly definite, viz. 10 mm. The following table gives the average length of the foetus at different periods, and its average weight during the later months :— Period. 2 weeks 3 „ 4 Length. 2-2 mm. 4 mm. 7*5 mm. Weight. h lb. l| lbs. n „ 2 months (lunar) 20 mm. 3 ,, 7 to 9 cm. 4 „ 10 to 17 cm. 5 „ 18 to 27 cm. 6 „ 28 to 34 cm. 7 „ 35 to 38 cm. 8 „ 39 to 41 cm. 9 „ 42 to 44 cm. 10 „ 50 to 53 cm. 6 to 9 (Average, 7-7^ lbs.) The Mature Foetus.—The points by which a mature may be distinguished from a premature foetus are of some practical interest, and may be of importance from a forensic standpoint. Length and weight are subject to wide variations. The average length varies from 19 to 23 inches; a foetus measuring 20 inches may be safely assumed to be mature, but the con- verse is untenable, since the mature foetus may be much shorter than this. A premature foetus, however, probably never attains a length of 20 inches. The average weight is subject to still wider variations, and may be stated at from 6 to 9 lbs. A healthy fostus weighing 6 lbs. is probably mature, but here again the converse is untenable; it may be mature, and yet weigh less than this. Premature children may exceed this weight from the presence of disease, such as ascites or abdominal tumours, syphilitic disease of the liver, etc. The skin of the mature foetus is plump and smooth, pre- senting a marked contrast to its lax and wrinkled condition in a foetus from about the seventh month of gestation, the difference being due to the formation in the last two months of an abundant deposit of subcutaneous fat. The lanugo has disappeared from all parts, except perhaps a trace upon the cheeks; the hair on the scalp is about an inch long, and the eye- brows and eyelashes are well developed. The nails project slightly beyond the tips of the fingers and toes. The skull bones are approxi- mated except at the fontanelles, and if a dissection can be made centres of ossification will be found in the lower femoral epiphysis, the astragalus, and the cuboid bones. The breasts are plump (in both sexes, and a little secretion can often be expressed, which on microscopic examination is found to contain colostrum corpuscles and fat globules. If not asphyxiated, the foetus moves and cries vigor- ously when born, thus presenting a marked contrast to the torpor of a prematurely born child; it also passes meconium and urine within a few hours of birth. The Fcetal Circulation.—The umbilical vein which brings arterial blood from the placenta enters the trunk at the umbilicus and runs along the anterior abdominal wall to reach the lower surface of the liver. Here it gives off twigs to the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, and lobus Spigelii, which thus receive a direct supply of pure arterial blood. It then divides into two main branches, one of which enters the portal vein, and the other, called the ductus venosus, joins the inferior vena cava. It will thus be seen that with the exception of the venous blood brought from the alimentary canal by the portal vein, none but pure arterial blood enters the liver. No other foetal organ receives anything like so large a supply of aerated blood. From the liver the blood is carried through the hepatic veins to the inferior vena cava. The blood in this large trunk is mixed; venous blood coming from the pelvis and lower ex- tremities by the iliac veins, and from the liver by the hepatic veins, while arterial blood comes from the ductus venosus. Entering the floor of the right auricle the blood-stream is directed by the Eustachian valve across the chamber to the foramen ovale, through which it passes in toto into the left auricle. Thence it flows through the mitral valve into the left ventricle, and thence into the aorta, to be distributed in greater part through the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian trunks to the head, neck, and upper extremities. These parts, therefore, receive the purest arterial blood next to the liver, and further, they receive practically all the blood which has already passed through the liver. From the head, neck, and upper ex- tremities the venous blood is conveyed through the superior vena cava to the right auricle, and thence through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle; it is believed that there is little or no admixture of the two blood-streams which cross one another in the right auricle. From the right ventricle the blood passes into the pulmonary artery, which, after giving off small branches to the lungs, passes, as the ductus arteriosus, into the descending portion of the thoracic aorta. It will be observed that the blood entering the aorta at this point is venous blood from the head and neck, etc. Probably a little mixed blood comes down from the left ventricle as well, but there can be only a small proportion of arterial blood contained in the