439 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF tissue supporting large endotlielial cells, while the muscular layer is found to be composed of very large unstripcd muscle fibres, sometimes branched and with elongated nuclei, in a matrix of fine connective tissue and elastic fibres. In the muscular coat are also many arteries with thick walls and a convoluted intima, and large thin-walled veins with no valves. The micro- scopic characters of the mucous membrane of the l)ody differ from those of the cervix, and require a separate description. Further, the appearances are much altered by such physio- logical conditions as menstruation and preg- nancy. The following description refers to the mucous membrane of the resting (non-men- stniating) virgin uterus :— It measures 1 mm. in thickness. It is made up of a loose plexus of embryonic connective tissue cells branching and anastomosing with here and there more elongated and fusifoi'm cells with oval nuclei; in the interstices are many leucocytes, and in its general appearance it suggests the structure of lymphoid organs. On the uterine surface is a single layer of ciliated columnar epithelial cells. On the sur- face also open the mouths of the uterine glands ; these are tubular and extend down through the stroma, and often bifurcate at their lower ends, some of which reach and some even penetrate the muscular coat. Their direction is first per- pendicular, and then oblique to the surface. They are lined by ciliated coliunnar epithelium upon a nucleated basement membrane, but the latter structure has not been recognised liy all. Further, some observers regard these structures as not truly glandular in nature, but as simple pits or diverticula of epithelium, the mucous membrane being really a lymphatic tissue. In support of this view Leopold states that the connective tissue bundles are surrounded by endothelium, and therefore constitute lymph spaces. In the cervical canal the mucosa is thicker than in the body of the uterus; it is firmer in consistence, and its lining columnar epi- thelium is ciliated only on the tops of the ridges of the arbor vitx. It possesses numerous racemose glands lined with cubical epithelium. At the level of the os externiun uteri thei'e is usually a sharp transition between the columnar epithelium of the cervical canal and the squam- ous epithelium reflected on to the outside of the vaginal portion of the cervix from the vaginal walls; but it is noteworthy that in the infant at birtii there is often no marked line of separation between the two kinds of epithelium, the columnar lining of the cervical canal ex- tending for a limited distance over the vaginal aspect of the cervix, and giving rise to the con- dition which has been called congenital cervical erosion. The so-called ovula Nalaothi are reten- tion cysts of the cervical glands. During men- struation congestion of the mucous membrane of the body of the iiterus occiu's, accompanied by an exfoliation of a greater or smaller part of it; during pregnancy it gives attachment to the fertilised ovum, and forms the maternal part of the jilacenta. The arterial blood-supply of the uterus is derived from two sources : the greater part comes from the uterine artery, a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac, which passes in the broad ligament to a point near the OS externum, where it turns upwards along the lateral border of the viterus, giving off trans- verse branches (the curling arteries) to that organ on the way, and one of these is large, is given off near the os internum, and miiting with that of the opposite side, forms the circular artery ; a small part comes from the ovarian arteiy, whose terminal branches anastomose with those of the uterine. It is well to re- member that the uterine artery which at a point opposite the os externum lies below and in front of the ureter then crosses over it and comes to lie behind its level. The veins of the uterus form a very rich network below the serous coat, and communicate with the vaginal and vesical veins, and also with the pampini- form plexus; they open into the internal iliac vein directly or into the ovarian vein. The lymphatics join those from the tube and ovary, and pass between the layers of the broad liga- ment to the lumbar glands; those from the cervix and upper part of the vagina pass together to the hypogastric and obturator glands. The nervous supply is derived in part from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and in part; from the second, third, and fourth sacral spinal nerves ; on each side of the uterus at the level of the isthmus these nerves unite in forming a large plexus sometimes called the cervical ganglion. The uterus and vagina are developed from the fused portion of the two Miillerian ducts. The upper part of each duct remains sejjarate as the Fallopian tube. In the new-born infant the uterus is partly an abdominal organ, for a portion varying from a half to a third lies above the plane of the brim of the pelvis; the cervix is relatively much larger both in length and thickness than the body of the organ ; and the folds of the arbor vitfc are prolonged in the interior quite to the fundus. Ligaments of the Uterus.—The uterus partly is embedded in and partly rests upon the pelvic floor, but it is also to some extent supported by the various ligamentous structures which sling- it in the pelvic cavity. These are the round ligaments, the broad ligaments, the utero-sacral and the Titei'o-vesical ligaments. The round ligaments are two fibro-muscular structures 13 cm. in length, which arise from the upper angles of the uterus; each passes in a curved direction to the internal inguinal opening, through the inguinal canal, and ends in the cellular tissue outside the external abdominal