GALEN, VEINS OF 371 Galen, Veins of. See Brain, Physio- logy ui' ( Venom CircnJation); Meninges of THE Cerebiium {Anato/iiy and Flq/siology, Causes of Hydrocephalus). Ga.lenism.—Tlie Ijumoral theoiy of Medi- cine as maintained by Galen (b. 131, d. 201 (circa)). See Medicine, History of. Galipine.—An alkaloid found in Angos- tura bark, the bark of Galijiea, cusjiaria (G,„H,iN03). Ga.ll, Ox. See Fel Bovinum Purificatum. Gal la. See Galls. Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, including^ Gall-Stones, Diseases of. Anatomy . . . . . .371 Malformations . . . . .372 Congenital OBLfrERATioN of the Bile Ducts 372 In-juries ...... 372 Cholelithiasis or Gall-Stones . . 373 Cholecy'stitis ..... 377 (a) Simple Acute Catarrh {h) Simple Chronic Catarrh (c) Empyema of Gail-Bladder id) Phlef/moiious Cholecystitis (e) Croup)OUs Cholecystitis Cholangitis 380 (a) Simple Acute Catarrh (b) Simple Chronic Catarrh (c) Infective Cholangitis (d) Suppmrative Cholangitis Adhesions 383 Ulceration and its Sequelye . . . 384 (a) Fistula (b) Stricture (c) Peritonitis (d) H(emo7-rhage Tumours of Gall-Bladder . . . 386 (a) From Distension (b) From Neiv Growth Tumours of Bile Ducts .... 388 (a) From Distension {b) From New Growth See also Abdomen, Injuries of {Lesions of Gall-IUadder); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis OP {Gall-Bladder); Appendix Vermiformis, Appendicitis {Diagnosis); Ascites (Distinction) ; Digestion and Metabolism {Bile, Gall-Stones); Hydatid Disease (Diagnosis); Intestines, Dis- eases of {Anatomy, Gall-Bladder); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Obstruction, Causes); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Hydroneph- rosis, Diagnosis); Liver, Diseases of (Anatomi- cal Abnormalities of, Floating Lobe) ; Liver, Tropical Abscess (Diagnosis); Malaria (Dia- gnosis from Gall-Stones); Ovaries, Diseases of (Cysts, Diagnosis); Pancreas, Diseases of (Pancreatitis and Gall-Stones) ; Physiology, Food and Digestion (Large Intestine, Liver, Bile); Pigments op the Body and Excreta {Bile Figments); Stomach, Surgical (Gastric Ulcer, Conyjlications, Gastr-ic Fistula); Visceral Pain {Gall-Ducts). Anatomy.—The gall-bladder is a pear-shaped sac, measuring three and a half inches in length and two inches at its greatest breadth, which lies against the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, filling up a slight fossa to the right of the quadrate lobe and projecting into the peritoneal cavity. Its fundus, when the gall-l)ladder is distended, normally projects slightly beyond the free margin of the liver immediately under the ninth costal cartilage, and from this position the cyst passes backwards and slightly to the left, gradually narrowing until its neck ends in a sigmoid curve, the terminal portion of which turns down- wards to its junction with the cystic duct near the right extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver. Its uj^per surface, as a rule, is attached to the under surface of the liver by connective tissue, the peritoneum covering the fundus and lower surface, and passing thence to the liver; but occasionally it is completely invested by peritoneum. At times also a mesen- tery is formed on the under surface by an ex- tension outwards of the free border of the lesser omentum to the fundus. The cystic duct passes backward, slightly downward, and to the left for rather less than one and a half inches, and joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle to form the common bile duct. The hepatic duct measures about two inches in length, and is formed by the junction at a very obtuse angle of a branch from the left, and another from the right lobe of the liver, which issue at the transverse fissure. Thence it de- scends somewhat to the right within the gastro- hepatic omentum, lying in front of the portal vein, and having the hepatic artery to its left. The common duct averages three inches in length and passes backward and downward be- tween the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, having the same relation to the portal vein and hepatic artery as the hepatic duct. Passing behind the first part of the duodenum it con- tinues downward on the inner and posterior surface of the second ])art in intimate relation with the head of the jjancreas, through which it runs in about 60 per cent of cases. For a short distance it is in contact with the right side of the duct of Wirsung. Along with this duct it perforates the muscular coat of the duodenum, runs obliquelj' for three-quarters of an inch in the submucosa, and then opens into the lumen of the bowel about three inches from the j^jdorus by an orifice common to the two ducts known as the ampulla of Vater. In some cases the ducts open separately, in others the pancreatic duct opens into the common bile duct (6).