EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 112 The incidence of abortion so immediately after the neofoetal pei'iod suggests want of complete adaptation to the new condition of life, in other words, a defective establishment of the placental connections. The new organism has now (end of second month) passed out of the distinctly formative or embryonic stage into the foetal condition when growth rather than organ-formation is the predominant phenomenon; its embryology is over. As a foetus it will be studied again, and its life, inside the uterus, will be followed up to the time when it is expelled into the world as a new-born infant or neonatus. These matters are dealt with in another article (FCETUS). Embryoma,.—A tumour made up of tissues derived from all the three layers of the blastoderm, and resembling, therefore, in this respect, an embryo (Wilms); a teratoma. Common examples of embryomata are found in the dermoid cysts of the ovary and testicle. See Tu>rouRS (Dermoids). Embryonal or Embryonic —Re- lating to or resembling an embryo. See Em- bryology ; FcETus AND Ovum, Development of {Emhryonic Area); Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases {Embryonic Life); Syringomyelia {Emhryonal glial tissue); etc. Embryotomy. — Comminuting opera- tions performed upon the foetus in order to reduce its bulk or the bulk of any of its parts (head, abdomen, etc.), and so facilitate its ex- pulsion from, or extraction out of, the maternal passages. See Cleidotomy ; Labour, Manage- ment {Transverse Presentations, Embryotomy); Labour, Operations {Embryotomy). Embryulcia. See Embryotomy and Cross References thereunder. Emergfency Certificate. See In sanity. General Treatment {Reduction of Fimction, Legal Provisions, Urgency Order). EmesiS.—Vomiting (Gr. e/xeoj, I vomit). See Emetics. Emetics. See also Alkaloids (Apomor- jjhina, Ernetina, etc.); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Treatment, Emetics); Lungs, Vascular Dis- orders {(Edema, Treatment, Emesis); Pharma- cology ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Vomiting); Toxicology (General Treatment of Poisoning, Emetics); and under the various emetic drugs, such as alum, ammonium carbo- nate, antimony, apomorphine, copper, ipeca^ cuanha, mustard, senega, sodium chloride, squill, and sulphate of zinc. These are agents that produce vomiting.—The act of vomiting is usually preceded by feelings of nausea, during which a copious supply of saliva is poured into the mouth. This being swallowed, carries down with it a certain quantity of air which subse- quently helps in the discharge of the gastric contents, by assisting in the opening of the cardiac sphincter. The mechanism of vomiting consists in a deep inspiratory effort being made, by which the diaphragm is pushed down as far as possible on to the stomach, the lower ribs being at the same time forcibly indrawn; the glottis is closed so that no air can enter the lungs, but probably some is swallowed into the stomach. This in- spiratory action is followed by a sudden violent expiratory contraction of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, and as the glottis is closed, this results in pressvire on the abdominal contents, the cardiac orifice at the same time being opened by some contraction of its muscular fibres. The mouth is held widely open and the neck stretched, affording as straight a course for the vomit as possible. Thei'e is an additional expiratory effort which serves to prevent the vomit passing into the larynx, the posterior pillars of the fauces being closed to prevent the contents passing into the nose. This is ineffective if the vomiting is severe. Thus in vomiting there are two main factors, the extrinsic pressure of the abdominal walls on the stomach and the dilatation of the cardiac orifice. These are ineffectual unless they are both called into action. The former alone, how- ever violent the effort may be, only produces retching. The intrinsic movements of the stomach, with an open cardiac orifice, are unable to do more than eject gas or water-brash (pyrosis). The two main factors do not usually come into play at once, hence the sensation of nausea is usually at first followed by retching, which becomes vomiting when the cardiac orifice is open. During vomiting the pylorus is usually closed, and so prevents any of the stomach contents passing into the duodenum, but if the gall- bladder is full some of the bile may pass through the pylorus and find its way into the stomach (bilious vomiting). The nervous mechanism involved in this act is governed by a centre situated in the medulla oblongata, and is capable of being stimulated by afferent impulses reaching it from many sources. The ixiore common soui'ces of reflex stimula- tion are stimuli applied to the peripheral nerves, as tickling the fauces with a feather, irritation of the gastric mucous membrane, obstruction of the intestine, hernia, etc. Vomiting from renal and biliary calculi, and the morning sickness of pregnancy, are also apparently of reflex origin. Lastly, the centre may be thrown into action by stimulation of parts of the brain higher up