366 FRACTURES ing the lower part of the leg steady whilst pressui-e is made upon the upper part of the outer side of the fibula. A skiagraph, however, will always make clear the nature of the in- jury. Here, if anywhere, the ambulatory treat- ment with massage may be employed. It consists in the application of a plaster of Paris case in two lateral portions. The foot must be kept at right angles, and care must be taken to see that the case continues to fit so long as it is used. Repair takes place in three weeks, but the patient may complain of neuralgic pain in the seat of injury. Fractures of the fibula within four inches of the external malleolus are considered under the article " Ankle-Joint," vol. i. p. 197. Fractured Tibia. — Direct violence may fracture the tibia either at its upper end, when the line of fracture is transverse or more rarely vertical, or at any part of the shaft, when the fracture is usually oblique. The bone is suffici- ently subcutaneous to enable a fracture to be detected easily if the patient be seen before the swelling has occurred, but at a later time the diagnosis is more difficult, since the fibula acts as a splint and there is very little displacement. The prognosis is good. The treatment consists in keeping the patient in bed with his leg on a rectangular splint until the swelling has sub- sided. He may then be allowed to go about on crutches after a plaster of Paris case has been applied. Fractures op the Tarsus (fractures of the astragalus are considered under the heading "Ankle, Diseases and Injuries of").—The os calcis is subject to several fractures. The bone may be crushed as a result of falls upon the feet, or severe injuries may be inflicted upon it by the forcible contraction of the powerful muscles attached to it; less often splinters of bone may be detached, or some of its bony prominences may be separated. The foot is flexed at the ankle when the body of the bone is broken and the power of exten- sion is lost; there is great pain in the tarsus, and crepitus can usually be felt. The width of the heel is increased, and the malleoli are nearer to the sole than on the sound side. The patient should be kneeling whilst the surgeon makes his preliminary examination. The dia- gnosis is often difficult, and the injury has been mistaken for a Pott's fracture and for a severe sprain. The prognosis is not very favourable, as some amount of flat-foot is nearly always left, and in severe fractures the ankle-joint may be involved. Treatment consists in keeping the foot and leg at rest in a plaster of Paris case for fully three weeks, massage being com- menced at the end of a fortnight. When a violent contraction of the tendo Achillis has torn away a fragment from the posterior aspect of the OS calcis it may be necessary to pin the fragment to the body of the bone, if it cannot be kept in place by flexing the knee and extend- ing the foot. The sustentaculum tali is occasionally torn off by forcible inversion of the sole of the foot. The accident ;is attended by pain, inability to walk, a sudden change from inversion to eversion of the foot, and shortening of the heel due to a slight displacement forward of the OS calcis. Crepitus may be felt on the inner border of the foot. The prognosis is compli- cated by the subsequent tendency to flat-foot. The treatment consists in the application of a plaster of Paris case, with sufficient inversion of the foot to bring the two fragments together. Fractures of the Metatarsal Bones.—The metatarsal bones are nearly always broken by direct violence, and it is said that the first and fifth metatarsals are more often fractured than the second, third, or fourth. The injury is either simple or compound, and the broken ends of the bone project beneath the skin on the dorsum of the foot. There is often so much swelling and bruising of the foot as to render the diagnosis difficult, though the localised pain renders the nature of the injury obvious. In simple fractures the prognosis is good if care be taken to get union with the least pos- sible displacement, but in compound fractures the severity of the injury may render amputa- tion indispensable. The dirty habits of people liable to injury of the metatarsal bones make it necessary to be especially careful in disinfect- ing the feet when the skin is abraded, for the bruised tissues easily suppurate. A Cline's splint with the foot-piece at right angles applied to the outer side of the foot may be employed in these cases until the swelling has subsided. Fractures of the Metatarsal Phalanges.— The phalanges of the toes are broken by direct violence, and the fracture, except in the great toe, is nearly always compound. The pain and crepitus render the diagnosis easy. The prog- nosis is good in simple fractures, but extensive suppuration and necrosis may follow a com- pound fracture unless it be thoroughly disin- fected immediately after the injury. A gutta-percha splint may be moulded to the inner side of the foot in fractures of the great toe, whilst in fractures of the phalanges of the other toes the dressings applied to the wound are generally sufficient to keep the fragments in good apposition until union takes place. Every effort must be made to preserve the great toe after fracture, but in the other toes, when there has been comminution with much bruising of the tissues, it is sometimes more profitable to amputate at once. Fragrilitas Crinium. See Trichor- rhexis Nodosa. Fragrilitas Ossium. See also Achon- droplasia ; Pregnancy, Intra - Uterine Dis-