ECLAMPSIA 3 Eclampsia. Deftnition ...... 3 Frequency ...... 3 Pathological Anatomy .... 3 Etiology ...... 4 Symptoms ...... 5 Complications ..... 6 Treatment ...... 7 Prognosis ...... 8 See also Convulsions, Infantile ; Head- Shaking [Spammis Nutans); Labour, Opera- tions, Induction of Premature Labour (In- dications) ; Labour, Operations, Forceps {In- dications, Maternal Complications); Labour, Operations, Embryotomy {Indications); Liver, Diseases {Functional Disease in Puerperal Eclampsia) ; Nephritis {Clinical Features, Chronic Ne2)hriti.s, Nervous System); Pregnancy, Physiology {General Changes, Toxcemia) ; Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Nervous Si/stems, Renal Affections, Alhwniinuria); Thyroid Extract ; Uremia (Symptoms, Con- v^ilsive Attacks); Urine, Pathological Changes IN (Proteids, Alljumirmria). Definition.—Eclampsia is the term applied to epileptiform attacks occurring in pregnant or puerperal women, which are the manifestations of a cerebral intoxication or over-activity arising as an indirect result of the pregnancy. By thus defining eclampsia we wish to make it clear that it is not a term to be applied to one particular form of convulsive attack which occurs during pregnancy, but is rather to be applied to any form of convulsive attack which may occur from any cause, provided that cause is primarily due to the eflfects of pregnancy on the organism of the patient. Frequency.—The frequency of eclampsia is rather a difficult matter to ascertain. If the statistics of lying-in hospitals are followed the percentage wdiich is thus obtained will be too high, as there will always be found a relatively greater number of primiparre than of multiparje in hospitals, and also as a patient is more likely to seek the aid of a hospital if she feels herself seriously ill than if she is expecting her confine- ment in her ordinary health. The statistics of various British and continental hospitals and clinics give the following figures:—Amongst 227,000 patients there were 635 cases of con- vulsions, i.e. a proportion of 1 case in 357'48. All these cases may not have been eclampsia, but the proportion very closely corresponds to that at the Rotunda Hospital, where amongst 11,958 patients there were 36 cases of eclampsia, i.e. 1 case in 332'16. Pathological Anatomy.—At the autopsies of patients who have died of eclampsia a tolerably uniform series of pathological conditions are met witli in the various organs. The organ most constantly affected, and the one whose condition is most closely connected clinically with the symptoms of the case, is the kidney. The next most constantly affected organ is the brain, and after it the liver. There is, however, no one lesion which has come to be definitely regarded in the light of a primary lesion. If the various organs are examined one by one the following changes are found :—■ Liver.—The surface of the liver is scattered over with patches caused by ecchymosed blood. Some of these are the size of a pin's head, while others may be half the size of the palm of the hand. On section the colour of the liver sub- stance is more yellow than usual, owing to various lesions of the epithelium (Pilliet). Hsemorrhages, resembling the above subcapsular hajmorrhages, are found scattered round the portal interspaces. LTnder the microscope they are seen in three different stages. In the first stage they consist of a circular area of dilated intralobular capillaries, situated close to a portal space, and about the size of a grape-stone. In the second stage these areas of engorgement have increased in size. Round their periphery there is a ring of dilated capillaries, while the centre has become necrotic, and consists of a mass of dead liver cells, blood corpuscles, vessels, and fibrin. In the third stage the areas have still further increased, and in places where they were near one another they have coalesced. In this way islands of necrosis are formed surrounded by a small-celled exudation. From these areas emboli of liver cells (Jiirgens)—of fat (Virchow) —may be carried to other organs. With regard to the origin of the hasmorrhages which produce these necrotic areas there is a wide difference of opinion, as we shall see in discussing the various theories of eclampsia. Here it is sufficient to say that they may occur in one of several ways : first, as the result of the bringing to the liver, in the blood, of some toxic substance—chemical or bacterial in origin —which destroys the liver cells; secondly, as the result of embolic infarction of the liver, the emboli coming from the placenta, or l.ieing formed by the action of some coagulation-producing ferment on the blood ; and, thirdly, as the result of the rupture of small blood-vessels during an eclamptic fit. Similar areas are found in the spleen, kidney, pancreas, brain, and lungs. Kidneys.—In from 90 to 95 per cent of cases the kidneys are affected, most commonly by the condition known as pregnancy kidney. Accord- ing to Leyden this is not a true nephritis, but rather the result of simple ansemia, and is characterised by a fatty infiltration of the renal epithelium, especially of the convoluted tubes. The cause of this anaemia is attributed by Diihrssen, Spiegelberg, and others to spasm of the renal arteries, due to their reflex irritation by stimuli from the genital tract. Such stimuli are furnished by the contractions or great dis- tension of the pregnant uterus, by the entrance of the head into tlie pelvis, and by the onset of