FALLOPIAN TUBES 251 always easy. Clinical symptoms are confusing, menorrhagia is frequent in tubal as in ovarian disease, and a sharp, recurrent attack of in- flammation is, on the other hand, not rarely associated with cessation of menstruation for many weeks. Hydrosalpinx and tubo-ovarian cysts often run a very chronic course, they may project into the hypogastrium and iliac fossa, but never steadily increase after the fashion of an ovarian or broad ligament cyst. They are nearly always associated with occasional or frequent attacks of pelvic inflammation, and are very prone to suppurate, especially if ad- herent to intestine or vermiform appendix. Most probably the uncertain symptoms associated with pyosalpinx arise from the presence or absence of more or less septic germs in the pia-ulent contents. The most virulent bacilli in acute cases die out if the jjatient recovers; the gonococcus is also of feeble vitality, and never appears to propagate itself in the tube. Hence a woman may go about for years with a pyosalpinx; but it is always liable to become septic from reinfection. Free discharge of pus from the bowel, where the physical symptoms of dilated tube (and not of parametritis) have been detected, is very strong evidence of pyosalpinx. Fatal rupture of a pyosalpinx into the peritoneum is very rare, as the tube is generally cut off' from the general peritoneal cavity by old adhesions. The most experienced gynjecologists, we must remember, all admit that accurate diagnosis of the different forms of pelvic inflammation is seldom easy. Treatment of the Different Forms of Salpin- gitis and Allied Tnhal Diseases. — Salpingitis without obstruction, diagnosed on reasonable grounds, is to be held as a form of perimetritis, and should be treated as such (see " Pelvic In- flammation "). Rest, vaginal douching, and saline purgatives rarely fail to prove beneficial in a first and acute attack. The chronic forms are always accompanied by the more familiar features of chronic perimetritis, such as constant dull pains in the iliac fossre and occasional attacks of sharper pain. Rest in bed, douching, etc., make an invalid of the patient; she be- comes less able to bear the pain from which she already suffers, and grows all the more exposed to recurrences, being constitutionally weaker. AVhen a venereal taint is suspected mercury and iodides seem of service even when the infection is gonorrha^al. This may account for the good results once claimed for these drugs in the treatment of " congestion of the womb." Taylor of Birmingham has recently spoken in strong support of this medical treatment of suspicious salpingitis, but rightly reminds us tliat the peritoneal adhesions around the tube are not essentially specific. Indeed, such ad- liesions cannot be dissolved by physic, and as they are well known to be almost constant and the chief cause of pain there is much scepticism about the value of any drug in the treatment of salpingitis. Deliberate operative interference for purely unobstructive salpingitis is not justiflal)lc. But when in the course of an operation a tube is found bound clown l)y adhesions they should be gently separated if possible. This can be safely done if the tuV)e simply adheres to the ovary, to the back of its own mesosalpinx, or to the peritoneum of Douglas's pouch, but adhesions to anj^ part of the intestine are dangerous to meddle with luiless quite soft. Omental adhesions are very common and a definite source of discomfort; they should always be separated. The perfect relief which not rarely follows an " exploratory " operation on the appendages is certainly due in many cases to the accidental or intentional separation of adhesions, especially omental adhesions. The treatment of hydrosalpinx and pyosaljjinx involves grave considerations. There can be no doubt that both hydrosalpinx and pyosalpinx may subside entirel}^ under rest and appropriate medication. They aj^pear to empty themselves slowly, the escape of pus has been frequently observed. If, on the other hand, the patient takes no care of herself, the morbid processes advance, the obstruction increases, and with it the pain from tension on the tubal walls. Catheterism of the tube, even if feasible, is uncertain and dangerous, as will be noted in a further para- graph. Bvit intra-uterine medication often aids the emptying of the tube. The endometrium is nearly always diseased ; hence if it be treated with antiseptic applications, such as iodoform, bougies, or swabbing with glycerine or carbolic acid, the morbid changes in its suljstance disappear, and the adjacent tubal mucosa shares in the benefit, so that the obstruction at the uterine orifice of the tube maj^ be overcome. Surgical interference may be demanded when there are frequent recurrences of pain and fever, with distinct deterioration of health. The operations reconuuended by different authorities ai'e : removal of the tube and its ovarj', as in ovariotomy, vaginal hysterectomy, and removal of the appendages, opening of the tube through the posterior vaginal fornix, and salpingostomy. The careful amputation of a hydrosalj^inx with its corresponding ovary is often followed by complete cure. The same may be said even when both appendages are removed for pyosal- pinx. The surgeon must remember, however, that whilst recovery from an operation where a large ovarian cyst is removed means cure, it is otherwise with amputation of diseased ap- pendages. An after-history of at least two years is needed, as the pedicles too often undergo morbid changes. The advantages of tins operation are clear. The parts are well seen, especially if the patient be jjlaced in the