FIRST AID 298 by flicking the soles of the feet with a wet towel. Prussic acid causes almost immediate death, but if seen sufficieiatly early, rapidly carried out artificial respiration may restore life. In poisoning by belladonna, the symptoms of dilated pupils, thirst, and delirium, with the history, possibly, of eating belladonna berries, is generally conclusive; such a case should be treated by the stomach-pump, the administra- tion of hot coffee, and artificial respiration if needed. Carbolic acid acts not only as a corrosive, but also as a narcotic; the smell is generally diagnostic; white of egg or Epsom salts should be administered, stimulants also if indicated. The corrosive poisons are chiefly local in action, and require therefore local treatment; after the acid or alkali has been neutralised, olive oil is a useful substance to apply to the mouth and throat. Oxalic acid acts not only as a corrosive, but frequently causes death by its action as a cardiac depressant; whiting, chalk, plaster, and lime water are all useful antidotes. Irritant poisons produce burning pain in the throat and gullet, followed by epigastric pain, and later nausea, vomiting, and purging. Arsenic is the most common of the metallic forms, and should be treated by emetics, salts of iron, milk, and stimulants, and later by some soothing drug, such as bismuth. Cantharides and the various forms of food poisoning are also irritant in character. (v.) Sundry Accidents. — When the clothes catch fire, the best method of extinguishing the flames is to wrap a rug, blanket, or coat tightly round the person; the burn which results is to be treated by carefully removing the clothes so as not to detach the thin skin of the blisters; handkerchiefs or linen smeared with vaseline or other greasy preparation should be applied to the part. As the danger from burns and scalds depends on the surface involved, the person should be put to bed and watched for shock. Frost-bite is more apt to occur when it is damp, cold, and windy than in still frosty weather, and the serious local manifestations are when the extremities or exposed parts be- come dead white and insensitive; in the treat- ment of such a case the danger lies in the production of too sudden a reaction with con- sequent death of the part. A person affected with frost-bite should be treated in a cold room, the parts rubbed with snow or cold water for many minutes. Gradually the increasing body warmth and circulation is farther assisted by the administration of hot drinks before trans- ference to a warmer room is attempted. The general condition of drowsiness seen in cases of long exposure to cold should be combated by active massage and rousing. Wounds compli- cated by the possible entrance of poisonous matter, as happens in the bites of rabid animals, snakes, etc., require immediate attention. A tourniquet should be applied to the limb above the wound, and if there be no abrasion about the lips, it should be sucked and bleeding- encouraged, while incisions round about aid the flow of blood probably poisoned. Cauterisation of the wound should be carried out with a fusee or anything hot which is at hand. At the end of a couple of hours the tourniquet may be loosened for a few minutes, and this is to be repeated provided severe general symptoms do not develop. When a wound is complicated by injury to blood - vessels it is as a rule associated with external hcemorrhage; the bleeding, whether arterial or venous, can be controlled by pressure applied to the actual spot. In the case of arterial fhmmorrhage, pressure on the artery alone, by means of either the fingers or tourni- quet, also suffices, the last being the least tiring. Venous bleeding is controlled by a local pad and bandage, or elevation only, when it comes from a varicose vein of the leg. Htemor- rhage from the nose is due sometimes to the rupture of a vessel on the anterior part of the septum, and so can easily be compressed; in other cases the severity of the bleeding may call for more active treatment. Plugging the nostril can be carried out by pushing into the nose a portion of fine linen or silk handkerchief on a narrow penholder; this process, like the finger of a glove, is now stufi'ed with wool or other emergency packing. Persistent bleeding from the socket of a tooth can usually be con- trolled by packing the cavity with wool soaked in turpentine, and placing above this pads of handkerchief so that the subsequent bandaging together of the jaws will induce pressure on the bleeding spot. Internal hcemorrhage when it is diagnosed should be treated by absolute rest, and if there be great thirst, whatever is given should be cold. Foreign bodies are as a rule easily removed from the eye, unless beneath the upper lid, when eversion of it is required. Foreign bodies fixed in the cornea should not be dealt with at once; it is preferable to insert a drop or two of sweet oil between the lids and bandage the eye, till careful treatment can be carried out with a view to possible complications. Children fre- quently introduce foreign bodies into their ears; these are easily extracted, except rounded bodies, more especially peas, which are apt to swell with the heat and moisture; forcible syringing of the ear with warm water often dislodges them, but failing this no amateur attempts should be allowed lest damage be in- flicted to the drum. In the nose foreign bodies may be extracted with less fear of injuring important parts.