p:pidemiology 140 number of seventy-two millions of the typhoid bacillus were poured into a well containing 680 litres of water. They had all disappeared by the third day. Our experience of actual epidemics of water-borne typhoid is very different from the results of this experiment. We must be equally on oiu- guard not to infer from what we see of an epidemic disease at the present day that it has always presented the same characters. In recent outbreaks of plague little has been heard of carbuncles, petechise, and other eruptions. Yet so characteristic were carbuncles of this disease, as seen in Europe in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, that it was often spoken of as carbunculiw plague, and the eruptions known as the tokens were looked upon as moi'e certain evidence that a disease was plague than the buboes tliemselves. The micro-organisms of some of the more im- portant diseases are still unknown, but those that are known belong to the coccus, rod, or screw forms of the schizomycetes, or to the htematozoa. Classifications based on their morphology and modes of reproduction, however necessary for the bacteriologist, are of little service to the epidemiologist, for they fail to bring together groups of disease having common epidemiological features. The symptoms, lesions, and epidemio- logical characters of a disease afford no certain indication of the bacteriological class in which we are to look for its cause. A classification based on the parasitic habits of the micro-organisms and the modes in which they are communicable is that which is most useful to the epidemiologist. One important class of epidemic diseases con- sists of those caused by ohllfiatory parasites. These organisms do not grow outside the human body. External conditions—light, air, tempera- ture, humidity—are relevant to their prevalence only in so far as they (a) attenuate their virulence or destroy their vitality; {h) favour or hinder their diffusion ; (c) increase or diminish the sus- ceptibility of the body generally, or that of the surfaces through which infection takes place, to their invasion. To a second class belong diseases caused by non-ohlujatory parasites capable of saprophytic life outside the body. This class is usually divided into two groups: diseases due {a) to facultative saprophytes, or organisms essentially parasitic, but capable of growing more or less vigorously in external media; (6) to facultative parasites, or organisms essentially saprophytic in their habits, but capable of invading the liuman body. The distinction is a real one as applied to non-epidemic infections. The bacillus of tetanus, for example, is a truly facultative parasite. Its life is that of a soil saprophyte, but when accidentally introduced into the body it is capable of growing in the tissues. The distinction, however, between facultative sapro- phytes and facultative parasites is more arbitrary in the case of the organisms of epidemic diseases. The most saprophytic of them develop a high degree of parasitism when they are epidemic. It is doubtful, indeed, if any saprophyte can give rise to an epidemy until its virulence has become exalted by successive transmissions through the human body. In other words, facultative parasites must become, in a sense, facultative saprophytes before they can spread extensively. The cholera vibrio, for example, is looked upon as the type of a facultative parasite, but it loses its virulence by continued growth as a saprophyte. This is true at least in non- endemic regions, and it is open to doubt whether the cholera germ, even in places where it is endemic, can maintain indefinitely the virulence necessary to give it spreading power, unless by frequent passages through the human body. Some of the non-obligatory parasites approach closely in their epidemic characters to those of the obligatory group. The scarlet fever germ, for example, whatsoever it may be, is capable of saprophytic growth, as milk epidemics prove, but when widely epidemic, scarlet fever appears to spread almost exclusively by contagion, and its epidemic characters are then practically those of a disease due to an obligatory parasite. The same may be said of diphtheria. Its bacillus grows as a saprophyte, and dm-ing its epidemic prevalence the saprophytically grown virus often gives rise to the disease, but there is reason to believe that when the disease is epi- demic it is mainly spread by contagion. When not grown from time to time on the body it loses its virulence. It will thus be seen that epidemicity implies an increase in the parasitism of microbes, those most akin to saprophytes in their habits approximating to the characters of facultative saprophytes, the latter, again, to those of obligatory parasites. It seems highly probable, indeed, that all infective microbes were originally saprophytes, and it cannot be confi- dently affirmed that any one of the obligatory group has so completely lost its ancestral habits that it cannot grow in some medium outside the body. There is some reason for believing that the bacillus cultivated by Copeman and Klein from variolous crusts by incubation in a hen's egg is the long-sougl)t-for virus of variola. In that case, the most obligatory of all parasites will have been proved to be capable of saprophytic life ; but from all we know of small-pox we may rest assured that in respect to the actual mode of its propagation it is strictly obligatory. When small-pox or measles are introduced into an island with a limited population, and not in frequent communication with places where these diseases are always more or less in evidence, they die out as soon as the susceptible are ex- hausted. Neither of them can maintain itself in the surroundings of man until a sufficient