157 EPILEPSY to be at their worst a slackening in severity occurs, and the stage of resolution is heralded by a return to consciousness. The involuntary convulsive movements are replaced by those of a voluntary nature, so that the patient may alter his position by turning round or by sitting up ; on the other hand, movements of a hysterical character may occur; or the patient may struggle and iight so that several attendants ai'e required to hold him down. All these, however, pass oft', and the patient falls into a deep sleep. The first stage may be said to last from five or ten seconds to half a minute ; the second from one to two minutes ; the third from five to ten minutes, according to the nature of the movements. The post-epileptic sleep may last for an hour or two, but sometimes the patient is sleepy and dazed for the remainder of the day. There are a few points to which closer atten- tion may be given. The pupil, which sometimes shows a pi'e- liminary contraction, is usually dilated during the stage of asphyxia. The pulse during the second stage becomes tense and increased in frequency. The epileptic seizure is usually followed by severe headache, of which complaint is made on awakening from the period of sleep. Immediately after the fit the reflexes may be abolished, but this temporary state is followed by an increase of the knee-jerks, and an ankle clonus may be obtained. The temperature may be raised one or two degrees during the epileptic convulsion. In the event of a status epilepticus supervening the temperature may rise to hyperpyrexia. Vomiting may follow an epileptic fit; in some cases it is a constant feature. When it occurs it forms an element of danger owing to the risk of choking. The secretion of urine is copious, but in other respects it does not difter from normal. (2) Le petit mnl; a momeiitar}^ loss of con- sciousness without obvious muscular spasm, a condition to which patients usually apply the terms "fainting attacks," or attacks in which they feel "dazed," or of "sensations," or of tem- porary loss of memory ; or the friends may give an account of attacks in which the patient " looks queer." These seizures may last from one to two or five seconds. Should the person be conversing, he suddenly stops speaking, his face becomes pale, the pupils dilate, and the expression assumes a " blank" appearance. These are only momentary, and conversation is resumed as if nothing had happened. If on the other hand the patient is walking, he may be noticed to stagger slightly, or lean to one side— but he rarely falls, or lets an object drop from his hand. These attacks give no warning of their approach, and pass off without any consequent dulling of the mind. On the other hand, the loss of consciousness may be accompanied by acts of an involuntary automatic nature. Hence it is in association more especially with attacks of le petit mal that the extraordinary actions known as epileptic automatism are observed. For instance, one patient sometimes turned out the contents of his pockets, while on other occa- sions he has been observed to pile the crockery on the dinner table, while acts of a distinctly aggressive nature are from time to time re- corded. Another invariably took out his watch without knowing what he did, a very common automatic act, both after slight as well as severe fits, being the habit of undressing. Slight attacks unassociated with automatic actions may exist for a long time and be over- looked. A not uncommon history is that of a person who has been suddenly seized with a severe epileptic fit; inquiry into the previous history shows that he has been subject also to momentary lapses of consciousness. Or an- other person, who occasionally suffers fromattacks of le grand mal, may during the intervals of these seizures have frequent attacks of le petit 7nal. (3) Le p)^tit mal with slight convulsion, the " epilepsia mitior with evident spasm " of Rey- nolds. This form of epilepsy is not uncommon, and, owing to the local nature of the spasm, the diagnosis from local cerebral disease may at the outset not be apparent. The convulsion, how- ever, is always associated with temporary loss of consciousness. The spasmodic element may con- sist of a momentary conjugate deviation of the eyes, or of the head and eyes to one side ; or the limbs may be chiefly involved, an arm may be thrown into slight tonic convulsion ; or the con- vulsion may take the form of a hemiplegic jerking of the arm and leg. In the severer cases there is both a tonic and a clonic convulsion. In some cases a distinct "sensation," as if tlie limb were being moved, may precede or take the jjlace of the actual convulsion. Another resemblance to Jacksonian epilepsy lies in the fact that the patient is often aware of the commencement of the attack, though unable to arrest it. These attacks are of short duration, several often occurring in close sequence, so that the total number recorded in one day may be large. This form of epilepsy was commoner in children and young people. The importance of its recog- nition lies in the fact that when it occurs during sleep it is a frequent cause of intermittent "wetting the bed." Owing to the temporary duration and slight nature of the convulsion the tongue is rarely bitten. Having now briefly described the form of attack commonly associated with the term epilepsy, it is necessary to look shortly at several factors of importance in connection with the disease as a whole.