40 ECZEMA with 3ij- of zinc oxide to tlie gj., and 1 per cent of boric acid, or 2 per cent of salicylic acid, is a suitable form of treatment. A cheaper ointment is benzoated lard gj., calamine 3jv and salicylic acid gr. x. When the inflammatory symptoms have subsided, and the surface has become I'ough and scaly, tar and sulphur in gradually increasing strength are indicated. In females with eczema under the breast it is absolutely essential to separate the parts so as to prevent contact; ziiic ichthyol salve muslin is useful for this purpose. When this cannot be obtained, a porous oint- ment, such as Lassar's paste (see p. 33), with 2 per cent salicylic acid, spread over muslin, must be inserted under tlie breasts. AxiLL.E.—Eczema in these regions is apt to be moditied by heat, abundant secretion, and constant friction. During the acute stage zinc- calamine lotion with 1 per cent boric acid, or Lassar's paste with 2 per cent salicylic acid, is safe treatment. The subsidence of the symptoms is always to be followed by the more stimulating application of tar, sulphur, or subchloride of mercury. Arms.—There are only two types which re- quire special description. Type 1. The eruption consists of spongy points closely clustered together in patches far apart from each other. The skin is thin, and the neuro-capillary apparat us highly sensitive. Very slight irritation causes a thin, clear serum to ooze out from the spongy points; some of these are temporarily closed with a minute scab not larger than a pin's head of medium size. The patients are in poor health, and frequently are the victims of nervous exhaustion.—This is a peculiar type of eczema which is to be distinguished from the common varieties by the fact that the degree of inflammation is not proportionate to the amount of epithelial injury, but is deter- mined by the morbid irritalDility of the neuro- capillary system of the skin. There is a con- spicuous loss of vaso-motor control. No form of eczema is more troublesome to the patient or to the physician. The irritation is often intense. Very slight stimulation will cause the discharge to break out afresh. The ordinary remedial ointments only cause fresh serous exudation. The only local treatment required is to cut off all sources of irritation (air, light, friction of clothes, finger-nails), and this is best attained by astringent or alkaline lotions applied in compress form with an over-covering of oiled silk. When the patches have lost their spongy aspect, the compresses may be exchanged for zinc-ichthyol salve muslin, or calamine lotion with a few minims of liquor picis carbonis. Nerve tonics such as quinine, strychnine, phos- phoric acid, are indicated, but they will do no good unless we can set the patient free from the circumstances which worry and fatigue his brain and mind. Thus change to bracing hill- side air is often of more value than medicine. Type 2. The hends of the elbows are red, dry, and indwated ; the natural lines and furrows of the surface are exaggerated. — Eczema is very common in the bends of the elbows and is apt to become chronic, and to linger there after it has disappeared elsewhere. Here, as also behind the knees, eczema is specially prone to involve the derma, which becomes indurated and sclerosed. From its anatomical position it is subject to disturbances arising from pressure on nerves (prolonged flexion), and the constant movement of parts. Eczema in these regions must always be treated by the continuous method (see p. 32), and usually by ointments in preference to lotions. To remove induration we may require strong tar-sulphur-salicylic oint- ments. If these fail we must employ chry- sarobin. Hands.—The hands, with the face, are the most nervous regions of the cutaneous surface. Bouts of worry and nerve-exhaustion are specially apt to be followed by the development of eczema in these parts in persons with defective vaso- motor control. Type 1. The erupjtion consists of patches of spongy points in a thin, over-sensitive skin.—This is the same as type 1 described above under Arms. Type 2. The eruption cojisists of superficial vesicles forming slowly and dispersing slowly, each being isolated, distinct, and ivell formed; fresh crops of vesicles arise at intervals until the liand on both sides is fairly studded with vesicles ; when they are crowded together, oedematous red patches are formed, but in the early stages there is very little hypera;mia. The burning and itching are severe.—This variety is slow and tedious in its course, owing to the local anatomi- cal obstacles to the dispersion of the plasma, and the throwing-ofi' of the injured epithelium. If the hand is studded with vesicles, and the irritation is severe, the whole of the surface-skin must be removed before a permanent cure can be obtained; and remedies which are fitted to do this, without increasing the irritation, are clearly indicated. The shortest road to this end is complete immersion of the hands in alkaline warm water. When this is not convenient alkaline water compresses may be used. When the cuticle is sufficiently macerated, and the exudate dispersed, tlie water treatment must be stopped. At this stage the hand looks worse, owing to the pi'edominance of the hyperajmia and the fusion of the lesions into each other. In reality, however, the conditions for healing are much more favourable. The parts must now be covered with a keratoplastic porous ointment. One of the safest of the kerato- plastic agents for general recommendation is salicylic acid ^ in proportions not exceeding 2 per cent of the ointment basis, which may be ' In stronger proportions salicylic acid displays an action the reverse of keratojjlastic, namely keratolytic.