133 ENZYMES recently has it been definitely settled that these salts act upon the foi-erunner of filirin ferment, transforming- it into tlic active enzyme. They play no part in the transformation of fibrinogen into fibrin, the latter containing no more Cidciiim than the former. Tiie nuclei of the leucocytes, according to Lilicnfeld, contain a substance termed neiicleoliiston, which may be split u]) intcj two components, one of which, termed leiico- nuclein, aids coagulation, wliile the other is called histon and tends to inhibit coagulation. Nucleic acid, which is a non-albuminous body, is also said to cause coagulation. All processes which retard the breaking down of blood corpuscles also in- hibit the coagulation of blood. This occurs, for instance, if the blood be cooled down, if it be passed into salt solutions or into vessels smeared with fat, whereby c(jntact of the blood corpuscles with the wall of the vessel is avoided. Coagula- tion is also prevented by the addition to the blood of such substances as diminish the amount of soluble calcium salts, e.g. solutions of oxalates. The excretion of fibrin is, on the other hand, hastened by stirring the blood, because the destruction of the corpuscles is thereby aided. III. Ferments which split ur Fats Claude Bernard was the first to prove that there is an enzyme in the jjancreatic juice which splits up fats into free fatty acids and glycerine. This process is of physiological importance, because the fatty acids which are set free unite with the alkali of the succus cntericus to form soaps. Any neutral fat still present becomes emulsified by these soaps, i.e. broken up into minute globules, and thus rendered suitable for absorption through the intestinal wall. This fat-splitting enzj'me acts in neutral, faintly acid or alkaline solutions, but greater alkalinity is very favourable to its activity. The activity of the enzyme increases up to 60', but is destroyed by boiling. The ferment is also found in the so-called " dried pancreas of Kiihne," and can therefore be precipitated by alcohol. Henriot has lately found in the seriun of various species of animals, and of the horse in particular, a fat-splitting enzyme. Only in non- essential points does this enzyme differ from the steapsin of tiie pancreas, and the physio- logical action of both seems to he identical (saponifi 'ation). Furthermore, fat-splitting enzymes were de- tected by Green and otiiers in certain vegetable seeds, especially if they were germinating, for instance in fruit of Papaver somniferum and Cannabis sativa, in flax seeds, and in maize. Similar enzymes have been found in Penicillium glaucum and Aspergillus niger. They have not as yet been detected in bacteria, but neverthe- less the rancidness of fats is probal)ly due to the action of some such fat-splitting enzymes formed by bacteria. IV. Urinary Enzymes Formerly it was generally supposed that the micrococcus uresc alone was able to convert rn-ea into ammonium carbonate. Miquel has lately shown that GO different bacteria (cocci, bacilli, and sarcinje) which were cultivated from the air, river water, and drainage, possess this power, and lie has proved that their action is due to enzymes which may be separated from them. If the cultures be passed through porcelain filters in the absence of oxygen—for the enzyme is very easil}' oxidised—fluids are obtained which are almost completely sterile, yet which decom- pose urea. The optimum temperature of lu'ase is 55°. The gradual accumulation of ammonium carbonate, occurring through the activity of the urase, is injurious both to the growth of the l)acteria and to the enzymes produced by them. V. Monosaccharide-splitting P]nzymes 1. Zymase.—E. Buchner, aided by M. Hahn, was the first to prove that the fermentative action of torulfE may proceed without living cells being present, and consequently that the action is in all ])robaliility due to an enzyme formed by these cells. The proof is afforded by the following process which has been elaborated by M. Hahn. One kilogram of freshly-crushed yeast is ground up with one kilogram of quartz sand and 200 grammes of silica, and the moist mass is subjected to liydraulic pressure of 300 to 500 atmospheres. In this way one obtains an albuminous fluid which passes through filters of paper or silica, which contains only a few torula), but which nevertheless produces marked fermentation. Since the juice of the yeast or yeast plasmin also contains invertin, it is not only grape sugar which is quantitatively converted into alcoliol and carbonic acid, but also cane sugar, levulose, milk sugar, and less markedly d-galactose and glycogen. Lactose and 1-arabin- ose are not fermented. The addition of anti- septics {e.g. toluol or potassium arsenite) does not injure the fermentation. Zymases can be precipitated by alcohol with consequent loss of fermentative power. In a dry condition it with- stands heating to 100°. It retains its fermenta- tive power for months if dried in vacuo at 30°. The optimum temperature lies between 30' and 37°, and the fermentative activity of zymases ceases almost entirely at about 55°. We are still uncertain as to whether zymase is excreted by the living cells or active merely as an endoferment inside the cells. At all events toruhe, which are first carefully and com- pletely dried and then heated to120°-140° so that they are killed, produce fermentation, and therefore contain zymase. 2. The Glycolytic Blood Ferment.—Fresh de- fibrinated blood, especially that of the dog, is able to a limited extent to decompose grape sugar into carbonic acid and water. The activity