148 EPIDEMIOLOGY it is interesting to note that two out of the three epidemics of cholera that have visited Munich (1836-37 and 1873-74) have also fallen on winter. It is thought that the breeding- places of the virus of these diseases at Munich are situated at a considerable depth, and that the optimum temperature for the growth of the virus is found at the seasons in wliich they are actually most prevalent. These apparent ex- ceptions do not invalidate but confirm the rule. All the diseases of this class are not in the same degree or in precisely the same manner influenced by climatic conditions. The cholera vibrio does not grow at a temperature under 60° F., and its optimum ranges from 80° to 104° F. This explains why epidemics of cholera in temperate climates are so generally restricted to summer and autumn, severe winter outbreaks being among the rarest of events. The vibrio is rapidly destroyed by drying, hence extensive epidemics do not occur during the long dry season in the Punjab and Central Provinces of India. The vibrio cannot multiply in very dilute nutrient solutions, hence the extensive floodings occurring at certain seasons in Bengal, Assam, and other countries are followed by a fall in the cholei'a wave. Another explanation of this recession of cholera during the season of floods is suggested by Woodhead. He holds that when the cholera bacillus in the feeces passes directly into a soil so damp that it holds insufficient oxygen to satisfy its saprophytic requirements it remains aii anaerobic organism readily and rapidly killed ; but when the depth of the drying zone is greater, the soil con- tains more air, the organisms multiply, become more hardy, resist putrefactive organisms, acquire saprophytic habits, and become more dangerous. The bacillus of enteric fever is able to multiply at lower temperatures than that of cholera. It maintains its vitality for weeks when repeatedly subjected to a temperature below the freezing point. It is also much more resistant to drying than the cholera vibrio; these facts explain why typhoid fever is not so distinctly a seasonal disease as cholera. The season of our home cholera is even more strictly regulated by meteorological states— among which temperature occupies the first place—than its Asiatic congener. As Sydenham says, " Cholera begins in August, and within the limited barriers of one single month runs its course." But outbreaks of choleraic diar- rhoea, closely dependent as the disease is on a high temperature, may occur in mid-winter, and not only so, but the very lowness of the tem- perature is in these cases the cause of its appearance. Such epidemics have frequently happened in Altona on the Elbe, when the highly impure water derived from that river, after it has received the sewage of Hamburg, has been distributed to the population on account of very severe frosts having deranged the filtering appai-atus. As an epidemic disease dysentery is to be classed among the summer-autumn group. Of 705 outbreaks recorded by Hirsch, 528 occurred in summer and autumn, and only 14 in winter ; but in many parts of India the disease, attack- ing as it often does those debilitated by the malaria of autumn, is most prevalent in winter. No disease is more dependent on temperature than yellow fever. In determining the seasonal evolution of cholera, humidity as well as tem- perature counts for much, but the fluctuations of yellow fever appear to be determined by temperature alone. As Hirsch shows, it only exists throughout the whole year in regions where the mean winter temperature does not fall below 68°-72° F., and in these it attains to epidemic diffusion only in the hot season. In higher latitudes, with an isotherm of less than 68" F., yellow fever occurs as an epidemy only in years when the temperature comes up to that of tropical regions, and then principally in the hot season. In places with a still cooler climate the disease occurs almost without exception in the hot season only. A fall in the temperature to, or near to, freezing point puts an end to an epidemy. This coincidence in the fluctuations of yellow fever with those of the thermometer stamps the saprophytic character of its microbe. The seasonal relations of plague demand further investigation. The fact that the disease generally raged in Europe in summer and autumn and died out in winter, and that, on the other hand, it shows little tendency to invade distinctly tropical regions, seems to indicate that the growth or diffusion of the bacillus is inhibited both by high and low temperatures. It is said that its epidemic progress in Mesopotamia is checked by an air temperature of 86° F. and stopped by one of 113° F. (Payne). There is little evidence, how- ever, that the temperature met with in those parts of India where it has been lately raging have in any way modified its epidemic evolution. The mean temperature at the height of the first epidemy in Bombay was 74°-76°; in Poona, 8r-85°; in Surat, 8r-91° F. The slight differ- ence between the temperature of the month in which plague was at its height and that in which it began rapidly to decline in a particular locality, and the considerable differences in the temperatures at which it rose and fell in different places, forbid us ascribing any marked influence to climate in controlling its course. The climate of Bombay is never so high or so low as to affect its epidemic evolution. Other climatic conditions than temperature probably come into play (see Brit. Med. Journ. 23rd Dec. 1899). Some of the contagious-infectious class of diseases attain their maximum and minimum with great regularity at fixed seasons in a given country, but at different seasons in different