22 ECTOPIC GESTATION anterior incision as by the posterior, for thorough irrigation and drainage are impos- sible. Although this method has been adopted by some, the writer's experience is that, except in a very few cases in which posterior vaginal coeliotomy is possible, in nearly every case of extra-uterine gestation both before and after rupture the abdominal incision is infinitely pre- ferable, as the exact situation and relations of the gestation sac and its surroundings can be more accurately determined and the condition dealt with more thoroughly. 4. After the Foetus has undergone various Changes.—When the foetus undergoes mummi- fication, calcification, or saponification, it may give rise to no further trouble, and operation should be undertaken only if local or constitu- tional symptoms arise. If, on the other hand, suppuration takes place, the abscess must be opened at the most superficial point, and if already rupture of the abscess has occurred into the rectum, vagina, bladder, or externally, the fistula should be enlarged and all debris removed. These sinuses are very obstinate and not at all amenable to treatment. Mortality.—The mortality from operation on cases of extra-uterine gestation is best illustrated by the following statistics :—In Mr. Tait's list (1888) he had 42 cases with 40 recoveries. Duhrssen (1897) had 38 cases with 36 recoveries. Mayo Robson had 23 cases with 22 recoveries, and Taylor (1899) had 42 cases with 41 re- coveries. Repeated Extra-uterine Pregnancy.—Several cases of this have been recorded, and they seem to show that in some there is a distinct predis- position to extra-uterine gestation. A few authors hold that in every case where operation for ectopic gestation is performed, the second tube, even though healthy, shoiild be removed; but since the chance of repetition is only about 4 per cent, this cannot appeal to most operators. Ectopic Gestation, Recent Views.—Since 1900 a vast number of con- tributions have been made to our knowledge of ectopic gestation. With regard, for instance, to the varieties of ectopic gestation, progress falls to be recorded. The occurrence of ovarian pregnancy, suspected previously, was first con- clusively demonstrated towards the close of 1899 by Dr. Catharine van Tussenbroek; and since then cases have been reported by Hastings Gilford, Croft, Anning and Littlewood, Mayo Robson, J. F. Thompson, Mendes de Leon and Holleman,iH. W. Freund and Thome, and J. K. Kelly and A. Louise M'llroj^ From these observations it seems clear that an ovum may be impregnated within its Graafian follicle, and develop for some time entirely surrounded by ovarian tissue; the ovary responds to the stimulus of the fertilised ovum so far as its structure enables it, numerous blood-vessels and intervillous spaces being found, but decidual cells or cells resembling them are not always found. The foetus generally dies early, but in Croft's case it was still alive at the third month of gestation. The occurrence of the primary abdominal variety of ectopic gestation cannot be said to be as yet fully established, although cases such as those of Valdagni {Ginecologia, ii. 164, 1905) and L. Guidi (Clinica ostet. viii. 147, 1906) would indicate that suchaform really exists. The investigation of the tnhal variety of extra-uterine pregnancy has gone steadily on, and there is now available for reference and research a large literature on the subject of the anatomy and etiology of the pregnant tube. The profession is indebted to H. Russell Andrews for summarising nearly one hundred articles deal- ing with those aspects of the subject {Joimi. Ohstet. Qyna'c. Brit. Emp. iii. p. 419, 1903 ; iv. 280, 1903; ix. 454, 1906). From these re- searches it appears that decidual reaction in the pregnant tube varies very considerably in amount, that the deep position of the ovum in the wall of the tube is due either to its passing into a diverticulum, or else to a malignant or pseudo-malignant action of the fostal cells which enables them to buri'ow, and tiiat rupture of the tube may be due to the burrowing powers of the foetal cells, although it may also be caused by haemorrhage and by contraction of the mus- cular wall of the tube. The vexed question of the etiology of tubal pregnancy remains vexed. The action of a diverticulum is possible, but not proven; " the ovum may be embedded in a diverticulum, but it is by no means proved that it must be so embedded ": salpingitis no doubt is common, but it seems to be going too far to ascribe all the changes seen in the tube-wall to a causative inflammation (some, at least, may be the effects of the pregnancy), and to postu- late a symptomless salpingitis in childhood to explain them; and mechanical obstruction to, or hindrance of, the passage of the ovum through the tube seems to be still one of the more probable causes of tubal pregnancy. The clinical observations of the past few years i)ave made us better acquainted with a number of unusual complications and associations of ectopic gestation. The recurrence of tubal preg- nancy in the same patient has now been noted in a large number of cases; Haig Ferguson {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxiv. 37, 1899) brought the literature up to date, and since then numerous additions have been made to the list. It would seem to be fairly common, for in twenty-one cases Haultain noted it four times (Journ. Ohstet. Gynaec. Brit. Emp. ix. 409, 1906). Allen {Boston Med. Surg. Journ. cliv. 654, 1906) has reported a second ectopic preg- nancy in the same patient within a period of fourteen months. Pregnancy may be rejjeated in the same tube (Hofmeier, Berlin, klin. Wchnschr. xlii. 847, 1905; Goodall, Brit.