GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 442 fibres of unstriped muscle resembling those of the dartos in the male, and beneath them is a cellulo-adipose layer lying npon an elastic fibrous sac (Broca's sac). Sweat glands are present on the outer aspect of the labia. The labial lymphatics pass to the superficial in- guinal glands; the arteries are branches of the external and internal pudic and of the epigastric; the veins go to join those of the bulbs and the vaginal veins; and the nerves are from the internal pudic and small sciatic. Posteriorly the labia fuse insensibly with the skin of the perineum. The labia minora or interna, or the nymphce, are two slender folds of skin resembling mucous membrane which lie inside the labia majora, and form the lateral boundaries of the vestibule and of the vaginal aperture. They are directed backwards and outwards, diverging from the middle line. Each labium has a smooth outer surface apposed to the inner surface of the labium majus, but separated from it by a deep groove : an internal surface usually in apposi- tion with the internal aspect of the labium of the opposite side, and showing at its base a white line ; a free margin, irregular and fringed ; an attached margin arising from the side of the vestibule anteriorly, and from the inner aspect of the labium majus of the same side posteriorly ; a posterior end which, according to some anato- mists, blends with the labium majus about its middle, and according to others is joined with the corresponding part on the opposite side to form a thin fold lying in front of the perinevim and called the fourchette; and an anterior end which bifurcates at the level of the clitoris, and one part goes above the clitoris to unite with that of the opposite side to form the prepuce, while the other passes below the clitoris to meet that of the opposite side in the frenulum. The nymphcC contain no adipose tissue and do not carry hairs, otherwise they have the structure of skin. The sebaceous glands open alone on the surface. The nymphse have the same vas- cular and nervous supply as the labia majora. The clitoris is a small curved body with a pre- puce and frenulum formed from the anterior ends of the labia minora in the way that has been described above. It lies in the middle line at the apex of the vestibule, and is the homologue of part of the male penis. It con- sists of the glans, a mass of erectile tissue not larger than a pea and covered with fine skin, and of the body or corpus clitoridis, a cord-like structure which passes to the anterior edge of the pubic arch, where it divides into two crura, the inner margin of each of which is covered by the erector clitoridis muscle. The nerves of the clitoris are very numerous, and end in end- bulbs, and also in the peculiar genital corpuscles of Krause ; they come from the pudic. The arterial supply consists of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, a dorsal twig to the glans and prepuce and profunda branches to the cor- pora cavernosa. There is a dorsal vein which ends in the vesical plexus; the lymphatics pass to the inguinal glands. The vestibule is a triangular area with at its apex the clitoris (just described), with its sides formed by the inner margins of the labia minora, and having for its base the upper margin of the vaginal orifice. At the middle of the base is the meatus urinarius, and surrounding the meatus and stretching up from it towards the clitoris is a band known as the male vestibular band. This band is not always seen in the adult, but is fairly evident in the new-born infant. Under the mucous membrane of the vestibule some veins are found running trans- versely from one side to the other : these form the pars intermedia, and join together the two vestibular or vaginal bulbs which are placed at the sides of the vestibule. The surface is covered by several layers of pavement epithe- lium, below which are papillae with capillary loops, and beneath them a connective tissue layer; there are compound racemose glands. The meatus urinarius is the external orifice of the urethra, and is a small dimple in the mucous membrane of the vestibule. The urethral canal at this point is a small vertical slit; immedi- ately within it are the openings of two short tubes (Skene's tubules) which lie in the muscular wall of the urethra, and which are said by some to be relics of Gartner's ducts derived from the lower ends of the Wolffian ducts, and by others to represent the male prostate. Round the meatus are little openings, the orifices of the mucous glands of the vestibule (glandulfe vesti- bulares minores) already referred to. The meatus lies from 2 to 2-5 cm. below the clitoris. The orifice of the vagina lies immediately behind the vestibule and in front of the four- chette, which, it will be remembered, was formed by the posterior union of the labia minora. It is an antero-posterior slit, and in the virginal condition is partly occluded by the hymeneal membrane. Between tlie hymen and the four- chette is a small depression to which the fanci- ful name of fossa navicularis has been given. The hymen has usually a crescentic or semilunar shape, but occasionally it is a diaphragm with a single central aperture, or with two apertures, or rarely with several openings in it. It pre- sents a free border towards the vaginal orifice, which is thin and concave, an attached border posteriorly, an inferior or external surface, and a superior surface on which the vaginal rugse can sometimes be traced. It is composed of connective tissue with arteries and veins in it and many elastic fibres. It is usually but not invariably torn at the time of the first coitus, and it is certainly broken up when the first child passes through the vaginal orifice. Por- tions of the hymen remain as little fleshy pro- jections (three to six in number), which are