230 FACE Atrophy, Infantile {Symptoms, Face); Brain, Tumours of {LocaUdng Symptoms in Face); Eczema {Regional Forms, Face); Facial Hemi- atrophy ; Facial Hbmihypebtrophy ; Facial Nerve, Paralysis of ; Facial Spasm ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Sym2Jto7na.to- logy, Dyspnoea, etc.); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Face Presentations); Myasthenia Gravis {Symptomatology) ; Physiognomy and Expression ; Tetany {Sympdoms, Motor, in Face); Teratology {Malformations of Face); Toxicology {Strychnine, Symptoms, Face). Facial Hemiatrophy. Etiology 230 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . .231 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . .231 Treatment . . . . . .231 As the name implies, this affection is character- ised by atrophj' of one-half of the face, a defect which is shared by the skin, subcutaneous tissues, and bone; but all regions of the face do not suffer in equal degree. Etiology.—A direct hereditary transmission of the affection has been traced in a few cases. The manifestations of the malady most commonly appear before puberty, and no genuine case of the kind has been known to commence after the age of thirty years. Of the recorded cases, about a hundred in all, more females have been attacked than males. Among the possible ex- citing causes of the affection trauma demands special attention, as an injury to the affected side of the face has preceded the manifestations of the facial hemiatrophy sufficiently commonly to suggest a causal relationship. Other con- ditions that have been regarded as similarly operative are abscess in the region of the ear, tonsillitis, erysipelas, influenza, and various of the specific fevers, such as scarlet fever, measles, and enteric fever; but in a considerable number of the cases no cause has been ascertained. Symptoms.—A white or yellowish white patch on the cheek, chin, or forehead is, as a rule, the earliest indication of the malady. There may be more than one such patch, in which case, as each spreads, they tend to become confluent, and a large area of the skin of the face is thus involved; but in any case there is a gradual spread of the process from the seat where it first appears. The margins of the patch are not well defined at first, but they become more so in time. The skin may or may not be glossy, but in any case it is parchment-like, and the part has a hidebound appearance; the cutane- ous excretions, including sweat, may be dimin- ished on the affected side, and when parts that are covered by hair are involved, as for instance the eyebrows, the hairs fall out or become changed in colour. As the morbid process develops further there is atrophy of the subcutaneous tissues, and there results a local depression which is most obvious when the seat of the change happens to be the cheek, as is most commonly the case, a deep pit appearing beneath the malar bone. So too in consequence of the loss of the orbital fat the eyeball sinks in on the affected side. In the further progress of the disease not only does a wider and wider area of skin, including subcutaneous tissues, become involved, but the muscles share in the wasting, so that in cases of long standing their volume is much dimin- ished, not, however, owing to any real atrophy or degenerative change of the muscle fibres, but merely in consequence of disappearance of the interstitial fat. That there is no change in the muscle fibre jDroper is proved clinically by the fact that the facial movements are luiaffected, except in so far as they are hampered by the hidebound condition of the skin; and, more- over, on electrical examination they are found to respond normally, except that it frequently happens that on faradic excitation a response is obtained from the muscles with a weaker current than that required to evoke contraction of the muscles of the unaffected side, in that the current meets with less resistance in its passage to the muscles in consequence of the atrophy of the subcutaneous tissues. The bones of the face also share in the atrophy, so that the malar, frontal, and superior and inferior maxillary bones may in time all become much diminished in size, notably, though not exclusively, in the cases in which the disease becomes manifest at or before the period of puberty, and the teeth have been found smaller and decayed on the affected side in the child. The cartilaginous tissues are also affected as a rule, so that the cartilages of the nose may become shrunken, as may those of the ear. The rate of progress of the disease varies in different cases, and there is also a considerable difference in its extent, for in some patients it is limited to the part in which it first appears, most commonly the cheek, while in others the whole of the structures on one-half of the face become involved. The change is absolutely limited by the middle line; but in consequence of the shrinking of the affected half of the face parts of the healthy side encroach on that which is atrophied; notably is this the case in regard to the chin and nose. The term hemiatrophy is not applicable to all cases of facial atrophy, in that similar changes have been met with on both sides; so too the face may not be alone affected, for the tongue may shai-e in the unilateral diminution of bulk, a state of things that, as in the case of the facial muscles, does not depend on a true atrophy of the muscle fibres of the tongue, for they respond normally on electrical excitation. Then, again, other parts of the body have been known to be affected, areas of atrophy being found on the back and arm on the same side as the facial affection.