FACIAL SPASM 238 of longest standing, and a paroxysm may begin on the side originally affected, or on that more recently involved. It is rare to meet with evidence of spasm of the stapedius muscle. A rumbling noise in the ear has been regarded as evidence of this, and has been an accompaniment of tonic spasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Moos regarded giddiness and conjugate turning of the eyes to one side during a paroxysm of facial spasm as evidence of lowering of pressure in the labyrinth and semicircular canals consequent on spasm of the stapedius. The tendency to facial spasm is increased by any emotional excitement or facial movements such as in laughing, speaking, or chewing, any of which may serve to evoke an attack. Mental and physical quietude, on the other hand, con- duces to freedom from spasm. Cold increases the liability to an attack, while warmth lessens it; so too a bright light acts unfavourably, while darkness has a calming influence on the spasm. It sometimes happens that the spasm spreads to parts supplied by other cranial nerves and even to muscles supplied by spinal nerves ; thus it is that there may be spasm of the muscles of mastication, tongue, and neck, notably of the sterno-cleido-mastoids, and that even muscles of the upper extremity may be involved, as may the muscles of the eyeballs under exceptional circumstances. It is also rare for the muscles of the palate to be afitected, but when this has been the case bilateral or unilateral spasm of the palate has been associated with unilateral spasm of the face. The writer is not satisfied that there is sufiicient justification for including under facial spasm mixed cases such as those that have been referred to in this paragraph. Tonic spasm of the face as an independent condition is rare, though cold is supposed to have produced it. This form of spasm is, as a rule, consecutive to paralysis of the facial muscles, or is a part of some more general condition such as tetanus, or it may be an hysterical manifesta- tion. When tonic spasm exists, the face may feel stiff", and there may be considerable inter- ference with voluntary movement of the facial muscles. The palpebral fissure is narrowed, the eyebrow elevated, and the angle of the mouth drawn outward and slightly downward, the latter distortion when bilateral giving rise to the peculiar grin that has been designated the " risus sardonicus." In the absence of organic disease to account for the facial spasm, loss of motor power in the affected muscles forms no part of the clinical picture, although voluntary movements may, of course, be interfered with by the spasm. So too in the absence of organic disease of the nerve, it and the muscles it supplies usually respond normally to electrical stimuli. Disorders of sensibility are exceptional, and when present belong to some concomitant con- dition rather than to the clinical picture of un- complicated facial spasm. Pain, as has already been said, may be associated with some condition in relation to the fifth nerve, and has then been supposed to be concerned in the causation of the facial spasm. It is only when there has been any destructive lesion of the fifth nerve that any blunting of sensibility has been detected on the face. Apart from the auditory sensation that has been attributed to contraction of the stapedius muscle, no subjective sensations occur in connection with any of the other special senses, though loss of taste on the anterior part of the tongue has been noted where there was reason to suppose that there was damage to the facial nerve. Pathology. — With the rare exceptions in which a gross organic lesion is responsible for the affection, facial spasm has no known morbid anatomy, so that the malady belongs to that large group of affections of the nervous system which we speak of as functional. Two views are entertained : (i.) some morbid state of the cerebral cortex; (ii.) an affection of the facial nucleus. There are points for and against both views, but my own inclination is rather to re- gard the facial nucleus as the seat of the trouble in the idiopathic cases. The cortical theory ob- tains suppoi't fi'om the fact that organic lesions of the cerebral cortex have been known to generate facial spasm, while those idiopathic cases which have developed after some mental emotion are best explained on this hypothesis. As militating against this theory, however, may be instanced the fact that movements, and not muscles, are represented in the cerebral cortex, so that the strict limitation of the affection in the majority of cases on anatomical lines to the muscles supplied by a single nerve is opposed to the cortical origin of the spasm. Moreover, it is contrary to the best ascertained facts that a centre in the cortex — such as that which presides over the facial movements—should dis- charge time after time, it may be for years, and yet that the spasm should remain absolutely limited to the anatomical distribution of a single nerve, or only spread so as to involve the muscles supplied by the corresponding nerve of the opposite side. In dealing with this kind of spasm of cortical origin we are prepared rather for a discharge which, though beginning of locally and so limited for a time, nevertheless sooner or later spreads so as to involve in definite order parts other than those presided over by the facial nerve. So too paresis com- monly follows local spasm of cortical origin, whereas, as I have already said, loss of motor power forms no part of the clinical picture of idiopathic facial spasm. A further point that has its bearings on the question is, that with the cerebral hemispheres apparently intact gross lesions in connection with the facial nucleus in