445 GENERATION, FEMALE OlKiANS OF separated. Thus in prolapsus of the uterus the floor is weakened by general laxity of tissue, or more often by actual destruction of the support- ing sacral segment, with the result that tlie anterior segment with the superposed uterus passes downward past the sacral segment and protrudes from the vulva. In labour, on the other hand, the anterior segment is pulled up into the abdomen, the posterior is pushed back- wards, and in the space between the fa;tus descends on its way out of the abdomen. Again, if the patient be placed in the genu-pectoral posture, and the vaginal orifice kept open (as by a Sims specidum), the vaginal cleft becomes a cavity, and the cervix uteri is seen to be at a greater distance from the vulva; in this case also the segments of the floor have separated, the anterior passing towards the diaphragm ; and this peculiarity has been utilised in the examination of the pelvic viscera and in the treatment of morbid conditions of the uterus and vagina. Yet again, when the volsella is attached to the cervix uteri and downward trac- tion made in the axis of the vaginal cleft, the uterus can be drawn to the vidva without the use of force and examined or operated on ; here the anterior segment of the floor has been pulled down past the sacral. The Bladder and Eectum. — In order to complete this survey of the female genital organs and of the structures in immediate connection with them, it is necessary that the hhtdder and 7'ectum. be described. The l)ladder when empty usually forms with the urethra a Y, but occasionally its cavity forms a slit con- tinuous with the urethra, and the mucous membrane is thrown into folds : the former is the diastolic and the latter the systolic empty bladder. Further, in the adult woman it is a pelvic content when empty, but in the infant and fa^tus it normally lies above the plane of the brim. The upper part alone is covered with peri- toneum in the adult. Its wall is composed of several layers of unstriped muscle, and internal to these is a mucous membrane consisting of connective tissue lined by several layers of transi- tional or nudtiform epithelium. The mucous and muscular coats are separated by a loose sulimucosa. There are three openings into the liladder, the internal orifice of the urethra and the orifices of the two ureters. It is necessary, in connection with the surgery of the genital organs, to remember the course of the ureters in the pelvic cavity ; each ureter having crossed the iliac vessels passes downwards, l:)ackwards, and a little outwards on the wall of the pelvis to a point near the ischial spine, where it bends down- wards, forwards, and inwards, and passes beneath the base of the broad ligament, and is crossed by the uterine artei-y about the level of the os uteri internum ; it then passes at the side of the upper third of the vagina, runs for a distance of about I'5 cm. in the vesico-vaginal septtuu, and then traverses the bladder wall in a direction obliquely downwards and inwards to open at one angle of the trigone. The urethra is a straight slit measuring about 4 cm. in length. It is parallel to the vagina, and is indeed em- bedded in its anterior wall. It is lined witli a mucous membrane covei'ed with s(|uamous epithelium in its lower part, and with transi- tional epithelium in its upper part; it has also a muscidar coat and a submucosa. Its external orifi ce with Skene's tubtiles has been already describerl. The rectum extends from the left sacro-iliac joint to the anus, and is divided into three poi'tions. The first has a mesentery (meso- rectum) and ends at the third sacral vertebra ; the second part shows reflection of the peri- toneum on to the upper part of the vaginal wall; and the third has no relation to peritoneum at all, and lies behind the posterior vaginal wall, separated froui it by loose tissue and lower down by the perineal body. It is lined with a muc(jus membrane covered with columnar epithelium and showing numerous Lieberkuhnian follicles. There are oblique folds consisting of the mucous membrane of the submucosa, and of some circu- lar muscular fibres; one of these lies near the level of the sacrum, another about 4 cm. above the anus, and a third intermediate. The lowest of the three is called the sphincter tertius or valve of Houston (Fig. 8). In the lower part of its extent the rectum runs parallel to the vagina, but the anal canal turns sharply back- wards and is at right angles to the vaginal axis. Arrested Developments of Ovaries ....... 445 Fallopian Tubes ..... 446 Uterus ....... 446 Vagina ....... 447 Vulva 44S Sec also HEII.\L\rHRODITlS.NL The 7ii(ilfor»i((tions of the female f/em'tal orr/ans are mostly instances of arrested developments, that is to say, in them we see conditions which are temporary in normal organogenesis and which have become permanent. For instance, the litems which is originally composed of two lateral halves (the Miillerian ducts) is normally an organ which shows no trace of its temporary duplicity, but which may, under certain circum- stances, exhibit signs of it, as is evident in the various types of "double uterus." In some few cases this comparatively simple explanation of genital malformations fails, as in the rare anomaly known as trifid uterus and in double vulva; but, speaking generally, a malformation of one or other of the genital oi'gans represents a state of affairs which at an early stage of development would be normal. Mnlfonnatiom of the ovariex have an inqiortant liearing upon the fertility and health of the individual who is the subject thereof, for the ovarj' is not only the gland which forms the