GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 407 commonest cause of vomiting in infancy is some form of gastric irritation. In many cases the feeding is faulty, either as to quantity, quality, or frequency of food. Sometimes the irritation appears to be toxic, as where vomiting- is due to sour milk or bad eggs, and it is probable that the vomiting which occurs in severe cases of summer diarrha'a is sometimes, at least, toxic in origin. Vomiting is very frequently associated with diarrhoea, indeed it is comparatively seldom that an acute attack of vomiting occurs in an infant without some intestinal disturbance. Vomiting in infancy is rarely obstructive ; the possibility of some con- genital narrowing of the pylorus or duodenum, however, must be borne in mind in any case of persistent vomiting in early infancy (^vide Congenital Hypertrophy of the Pylorus): intus- susception also, strangulated hernia, and the rarer forms of acute intestinal obstruction must not be forgotten. Apart from disorders of the gastro-intestinal tract, vomiting is a common symptom of the onset of many acute diseases in infancy; it may also be due to some intracranial disease, meningitis, or tumour. An acute attack of vomiting in an infant is perhaps most often the result of acute dyspepsia. The infant seems ailing; it lies quiet and pale, or cries with colicky pains. The temperature may be raised to 101° or 102°. Vomiting- occurs at short intei-vals, and lasts a few hours, ceasing when the stomach is emptied. There is usually some slight transitory diarrhoea. This begins soon after the vomiting has com- menced, and often lasts a day or two after the vomiting has ceased. This may constitute the whole illness in a mild attack, but in more severe cases, or where the irritation is increased by the continuance of improper food, the vomit- ing may continue even after the food has been rejected, and mucus, sometimes bile-stained or even tinged with blood, may be vomited. Diarrhanx also in such cases is more severe, and the constitutional disturbance is consider- able. The infant (pnckly becomes hollow-eyed with sunken fontanellc, and lies apathetic and exhausted. In these severer cases there is probably usually some inflanmiatory or catarrhal change in the mucous membrane of the stomach, and the term acute gastric catarrh, or even i/astritis, might properly be applied to them. Progno&is. — In young infants such an attack is always serious and may end fatally ; but in most cases, if the cause is i-emoved, the illness ends favourably. Infants who have had such an attack are very liable to relapse with the slightest error in feeding; and sometimes recovery is even less complete. The vomiting becomes less frequent, but does not disappear, the attack ceases to be acute, but becomes still more troublesome as a chronic condition. Chronic vomiting is common, especially in hand-fed infants. In many cases, no doubt, it signifies a chronic gastric catarrh, but in many more it is due to a chronic dyspepsia, a functional distnrVjancc, without organic changes, in the mucous membrane. Vomiting ma}' persist for many weeks with no evidence whatever of organic lesion, and all one can say is that there is undue irritability of the stomach. As mentioned above, it seems likely that a morbid habit may be established which may account for the intractability of some cases. To whatever cause the A'omiting be due, except in the almost physiological repletion- vomiting of early infancy, the child soon begins to lose weight, its growth is arrested, it becomes pale and fretful. The appetite is sometimes large, sometimes diminished, and often there is pain and screaming after meals. The tongue may be fiu-red, and sometimes the breath has a sour odour, and there are sour-smelling eructa- tions. The bowels are often irregular, attacks of diarrhoea alternate with costiveness; but in many cases there is a chronic diarrhoea, and the condition is really a chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh {vide Chronic Diarrhoea, p. 412). Vomit- ing may occur two or three times a day, or after almost every meal. Unlike the repletion- vomiting which occurs immediately after, or even before the meal is finished, the vomiting of dyspepsia or catarrh usu.illy follows after an interval of a quarter or half an hour, or more. In the worst cases the infant gradually becomes weaker and more emaciated ; the skin is dry and hangs in folds; thrush appears in the mouth, and either from exhaustion or from broncho-pneumonia, or from some other com- plication, the child dies. In other cases the child slowly recovers, but remains delicate, and requires the utmost care in feeding for many months. Alorbid Anatomy. — As a rule the stomach shows nothing abnormal to the naked eye. It may be in a state of dilatation or contraction. In the worst cases, those of acute gastritis, the mucous membrane sometimes shows intense purplish congestion, usually over a limited area, sometimes also small hcemorrhages are seen in its substance, and very rarely small follicular erosions, while shreddy brownish material, probaljly altered blood or blood-stained mucus, is found adhering to it. The microscope shows shedding of superficial epithelium, small-cell infiltration both of the superficial and of the deeper parts, and considerable dilatation of vessels. In the more chronic cases, where no change whatever is detected by the naked eye, microscopic examination often reveals definite changes in the mucous membrane, especiall}' when the viscid, mucus-like character of the vomit during life has suggested some gastric catarrh. The changes are similar to those found in the acute cases, except that they are