477 GLYCOSURIA ing test:—Two hours after a breakfast of coffee and milk litre), with 80-100 grms. of bread, 100 grms. of grape sugar are given. If distinct glycosuria occurs, then the power of assimilation for sugar is diminished. Some observers are of opinion that alimentary glycosuria (or (jlycosuria e mccharo) is simply the mildest form of that morbid condition which I'caches an advanced state in spontaneous glyco- suria {glycosuria ex amylo) or diabetes mellitus. Whether this view be correct or not, it has been found occasionally that cases of diminished sugar destruction or alimentary glycosuria (detected by the 100 gramme glucose test as above de- scribed) have, in course of time, developed into diabetes mellitus. Thus V. Noorden found that in 4 out of 15 obese persons, temporary alimentary glycosuria was produced by 100 grammes of glucose. Of these four individuals two became diabetic several years later. In cases of chronic alcoholism from excessive beer-drinking, Striimpell has drawn attention to the frequency of alimentary glycosuria or dimin- ished power of sugar destruction; and he believes that there is no sharp line between this condi- tion and the true diabetes which is sometimes met with in alcoholic subjects. In traumatic neurosis or neurasthenia there is often a diminished power of sugar destruction; also Ebstein and Asher have shown that trau- matic neurasthenia is sometimes followed by diabetes mellitus. These facts are sufficient to show that the detection of a diminished power of sugar de- struction (or alimentary glycosuria) by means of the 100 gramme sugar test, may be of some practical value with respect to the prophylaxis of diabetes mellitus. Thus, for example, in cases of great obesity, in chronic alcoholism (especially from beer - drinking), in traumatic neurasthenia, and in individuals having a family history of diabetes, if the 100 gramme sugar test shows that there is a diminished power of sugar destruction, it is possible that, by a suitably restricted diet, the development of diabetes mellitus might be prevented. In such cases sugar and certain articles very rich in starch should be forbidden ; also sweet wines and beer should not be taken. In the urine examinations for life assurance sometimes a trace of sugar is detected, though there is no other evidence of disease. In such cases not infrequently the sugar disappears rapidly, and the urine is normal next day. Here also the 100 gramme sugar test would be of value as a means of showing whether there was any diminution in the power of sugar de- struction, and of course, if a positive result were obtained, a modified diet would be indicated. 2. Puerperal Glycosuria (Lactosuria). — It has long been known that during the puerperal state a substance occurs temporarily in the urine which reduces Fehling's solution. It has been shown that this substance is lactose in small quantity. It is said to be most abundant ! on the fourth or fifth day of the puerperium, and it appears to be connected with engorge- ment of the breasts. 3. Glycosuria produced by various Drugs AND Poisons.—(a) Phloridzin diabetes.—It has been shown by v. Mering that phloridzin, given hypodermically or by the mouth, produces glyco- suria with increase in the quantity and specific gravity of the urine, both in man and in animals. I These symptoms disappear when the drug is discontinued. According to some observers there is no excess of sugar in the blood, and the glycosuria is thought to be due to the action of the drug on the kidneys. (i) Other drugs and poisons someti/ues pro- duce slight glycosuria if given in very large doses ; but this result is by no means constantly obtained. Glycosuria has occasionally been ob- served after toxic doses of the following drugs : opium, morphia, chloral hydrate, prussic acid, mineral acids, mercurial salts, arsenic, phos- phorus, uranium salts, curare, orthonitro-phen^d- propiolic acid, cafFein, theobromine, diuretin, caffein, sulphonic acid, ether and chloroform narcosis, coal gas and carbon monoxide poisoning. 4. Glycosuria associated with various Diseases. — In a number of varied diseased conditions a slight and temporary glycosuria is met with occasionally, whilst in similar condi- tions it is frequently absent. The following are some of the conditions in which glycosuria has been sometimes noted : injuries to the head, concussion, fracture of the skull, cerebral h£emorrhage, meningitis, brain tumours (very rare except in tumours of the pituitary body, see article on " Diabetes "), Graves' disease, loco- motor ataxia (very rare), disseminated sclerosis (very rare), mental diseases (chiefly melancholia), cirrhosis of the liver, obesity, gout; occasionally after acute fevers, such as typhoid, scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, cholera; occasionally tem- porary glycosuria occurs during pregnancy. Glycosuria or diabetes is often associated with acromegaly. (With respect to the relation of gout, syphilis, arterio-sclerosis, and obesity to diabetes and glycosuria, see article on " Diabetes." In this article the forms of glycosuria after removal of the panci-eas and after experimental lesions of the nervous system are also described.) 5. Pentosuria.—Recently a number of cases have been recorded in which the urine has reduced Fehling's solution, and the reducing body has been shown to be pentose—a form of sugar containing five atoms of carbon or a multiple thereof in the molecule. No definite symptoms have been associated with the pre- sence of pentose in the urine. Detection of Glycosuria.—As considerable care is sometimes necessary in distinguishing