48 ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF There is little danger of ankylosis if massage be practised from the end of the first week, and passive movement carefully performed whenever mi ion is apparent. Bony union may be secured by wiring, but since firm fibrous union gives a satisfactory result, it is questionable whether an operation is justifiable, unless under the most favourable circumstances. Fracture of the Coronoid Process. — This is uncommon as a separate lesion. It is most often met with as an occasional accompaniment of dislocation backwards of both bones of the forearm. Only if the fracture is at the base of the process can the brachialis anticus exert any action. If the tip be alone separated one would pre- sume the union to be fibrous ; osseous union is possible at the base. Treatment consists in fixing the limb in the flexed position. Fracture of the Head of the Radius.—Fractin-e of the head of the radius alone is rare. The force necessary to fracture the head of the radius spends itself on the neighbouring projections, the capitellum, the olecranon and coronoid processes, so that fracture of one or other may accompany fracture of the radial head. The cause may be direct or indirect, the fracture complete or incomplete. Tlie diagnosis in the complete form rests on mobility of the detached fragment, with crepitus. In the in- complete form the difficulty of diagnosis lies in the fact that only a part of the head may be involved, and the fragment immobile owing to the security gained by the unruptured annular ligament. As would be expected from the entirely intra- articular situation of the fracture, there is immediate extravasation of blood and subsequent effusion into the joint, with pain and crepitus on rotation, when the smooth radial head will be replaced by an angular projection. To secure union of the fragment fixation in the flexed position offers the best result from expectant treatment, but ankylosis is apt to occur, and seems to justify an attempt to remove or pin in position the loose fragment, premising that absolute asepsis can be attained. The author has in his museum an exact half of the head of the radius broken off by a fall on the elbow and removed by operation, with subsequent perfect movement. Fracture of the Neck of the Radius.—Fracture of the neck of the radius as a separate injury is also rare. The diagnosis depends upon the elicitation of crepitus and the fact that the head of the bone does not move on rotation of the forearm. The biceps, acting on the tubercle, draws forward the lower fragment; the orbicular ligament may keep the fragments in position. A posterior or internal rectangular splint with a pad over the upper end of the radius gives the best result. Dislocations at the Elbow-Joint A dislocation of both bones is more commonly met with than a dislocation of either the radius or ulna alone. Of the dislocations of both bones, that back- wards is the most frequent. Dislocation Backwards of both Bones.— Any cause likely to hyper-extend the forearm when the arm is more or less fixed would tend to pro- duce this form of dislocation, e.g. a fall on the outstretched hand. A violent twist of the forearm and a blow either on the upper and front aspect of the fore- arm, or on the lower and hind aspect of the arm, have much the same effect. Both bones are carried backwards, with rupture of the anterior and lateral ligaments, and drawn upwards by the triceps. The orbicular ligament usually escapes injury and assists in keeping the bones of the forearm in their normal relationship, so that though the coronoid process is opposite the olecranon fossa, it is prevented from entering it by the radius, and thus the extent of upward dislocation varies. The tendons of the biceps and bi-achialis anticus suffer. The median and ulnar nerves may also be injured. Some of the surrounding bony projections may be fractured, notably the coronoid process, and occasionally the internal epicondyle and olecranon. If seen before much swelling occur, the diagnosis is comparatively easy. The forearm will be found fixed in a position of semiflexion, and shortened. The olecranon will be found unduly prominent, increasingly so if flexion be attempted, and quite above the epicondyles; the head of the radius visible and tangible ; the humerus is normal in length, altered in axis, and projects, though deeply placed in front. Reduction should be effected by hyper- extending the supinated forearm, so as to lift the coronoid process free of the olecranon fossa, followed by traction and gradual flexion, at the same time guiding the olecranon, and steadying the lower humeral end with the disengaged hand. It is better, at any rate safer, to fix the elbow with a splint for a fortnight or so than simply to rely on the sling alone. In old unreduced dislocations it is often im- possible to effect reduction, even with the aid of pulleys. If movement be much impaired, and the resulting false joint ineffective, a free exposure of the opposing bone surfaces, by division of the various ligaments and bands of fibrous tissue, will, with very few exceptions,