EPINEPHRITIS 166 EpinephritiS. — Inflammation of the suprarenal gland. See Adrenal Glands {Other Diseases). EpinyctiS.—A skin disease characterised by the nocturnal eruption of pustviles, accom- panied by pain. E pi phenomenon.—A secondary symp- tom ; one superadded to the more essential manifestation of the malady. Epiphora..—"Watery eye" ; an overflow of tears due to over-secretion or to some fault in the lachrymal apparatus (blocking of the nasal duct, narrowing of the puncta, etc.). See Eye, Clinical Examination {Symptomatology); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases {Excretory Apparatus, Puncta and Canaliculi); Nose, Nasal Neuroses {Hydrorrhoea); Syphilis {Tertiary Sympttoms, Eye and Appendages). Epi physes. See also Fractures {Separa- tion of Epiphyses) ; Hip - Joint, Injuries of {Epiphysial Separations); Knee-Joint, Injuries {Ep)i2yhysial Injuries); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries {Separated Epiphyses); Syphilis {in Children, Bone Changes); Physiology, Tissues {Bone).—The injuries and diseases of the indi- vidual epiphyses will be referred to in the articles dealing with the different segments of the skeleton, e.g. shoulder, elbow, hip, etc.; the present article is concerned with certain general considerations. Any account of the surgery of the epiphyses must refer, not only to the independent centres of ossification known as epiphyses, and the disc of cartilage by means of which they are united to the shaft, but also to the zone of active ossification on the diaphysial aspect of the disc, known as the ossifying junction or bulb of the bone. It is by involve- ment of the latter that injuries and diseases of the epiphyses may seriously interfere with the growth of the bone concerned; this interference will vary with the nature and extent of the lesion, with the physiological importance of the epiphysial junction, and with the amount of work which remains to be done before the skeleton attains maturity, or, in other words, with the age at which the lesion occurs. The variation in the physiological importance of epiphysial junctions may be illustrated by referring to those at the knee, which contribute a great deal more to the length of the lower limb than do those at the hip or ankle, while the former are the last to unite with their respective shafts; in the upper limb this arrangement is reversed, for the more actively functionating epiphysial junctions are met with at the shoulder and wrist, which, like those at the knee, are also the last to unite. Again, the results of interfei'ence with growth will be more injurious in the lower than in the upper limb, because, from the functional point of view, it is essential that the lower extremities should be, approximately, of equal length. Similarly, the interference with growth of one of two parallel bones, e.g. in the forearm or leg, is most un- desirable, for if the growth of one of them is arrested while that of the other continvies, there results a deviation of the hand or foot to one or other side. It occasionally happens that the interference with the ossifying junction results in increased activity of growth, and increase in length of the bone concerned. It is also important to bear in mind the anatomical relationships of any epiphysis to the adjacent joint, for the latter may be implicated by any injury or disease affecting the former; the part played by injury in this relation is well illustrated at the elbow, where epiphysial separation at the lower end of the humerus may seriously impair the future usefulness of the joint; the best illustration of disease in an epiphysis or at the junction with the shaft affecting the adjacent joint is found at the upper end of the femur, where the epiphysial junction is entirely intra-articular. The struc- tural relationships of the epiphyses are such as render them liable to certain special forms of injury which, in patients under twenty-one years of age, take the place of fractures of the joint ends of bones and of the dislocations of adult life. The arrangement of the blood-vessels in the epiphyses and at the ossifying junctions is such as favours the development of bacterial diseases, and the complicated nature of the histological changes at the epiphysial junctions during the period of growth probably plays an important part in the liability of the tissues concerned to give rise to new growths of the bony, cartilagin- ous, and sarcomatous types. Injuries.—E2nphysial sprains and incomplete separation of epiphyses are common enough in infants, but owing to the absence of displace- ment they often escape notice, especially in mild cases; they are chiefly of importance in favouring the development and localisation of bacterial diseases at the time of the injury or at any subsequent period. Complete separation of an epiphysis may take place through the epiphysial cartilaginous disc, or exactly at the epiphysial junction, so that the cartilaginous disc clings to the epiphysis, or through the ossifying junction, so that part of the young bone belonging to the shaft remains attached to the epiphysis. The last of these, which is also called epiphysiary fracture, is by far the most common. The displacement of the separated epiphysis may be complete or incomplete; it largely depends on whether the periosteum is or is not torn, and on the degree and nature of the violence. Dislocation of the epiphysis from its articular relations is exceed- ingly rare. Epiphysial separations may be simple or