ECZEMA 25 .sider under the two heads of passive resistance and vital resistance. The passive resistance of the skin, to which reference has just been made, is afforded by the keratin and fat cells of the epithelium, and by the underlying fibrous meshwork. Eegions of the body which are habitually exposed to pressure, such as the palms, soles, and buttocks, are provided with a thicker armour of horn cells; flexible regions, where great mobility is required, such as the groins and axillfe, the elbows, the bends of the knees and the palms, are rich in fat. The dermal felt-work is mainly responsible for resisting pres- sure and mechanical blows. In infants, on account of the extreme delicacy of the epithelium, it is the main defence of the skin, and its imper- fect state of development accounts to some extent for the proneness of young children to eczema. Vital i-esistance is aftbrded by the so-called trophic and vaso-motor nerves. We shall have occasion to refer again to this. The Lesions of Eczema.—It is the custom to divide the eczematous eruptions into four groups, according as the predominant lesion is papular, vesicular, pustular, or erythematous. Although this method has received the sanction ■of some eminent writers on Dermatology, and has been blindly followed by others, it is not one which commands universal approval. The minute description of lesions only serves to •draw the mind away from the essential nature of eczema. The so-called lesions of eczema have no separate basis of existence. They are mobile, interchangeable marks, due either to the temporary retention of the exudate within the epithelium (vesicles, bulla;), or to the addition of leucocytes to the plasma (pustules). The essential thing to remember is that all the papular and dry discoid forms are essentially low-pressure eczemas, while all the vesicular and sero-purulent varieties are high-pressure eczemas. The histological differences between these several forms are veiy slight, as Unna and Leloir have so well shown. The vital circum- stance which directs the inflammatory mani- festation into one or other of these forms is the physiological state of the skin, which deter- mines the amount of resistance which it shall offer to the irritant wiiich is the cause of the injury. In view of these considerations our description of the lesional varieties will be no longer than is just necessary to enable the reader to recog- nise them when seen. The Vesicle.—The eczematous vesicle may be defined as the temporary retention in the superficial part of the epithelium (usually immediately under the horny layer) of a drop of serous plasma derived from the capillaries. For diagnostic purposes we have to distinguish it from tlie vesicles of zona, and from those of the herpetoid eruptions which in some cases follow nerve injuries. The eczematous vesicle is a flat elevation, when much resistance is offered to the escape of the plasma, or a conical or dome-shaped elevation when the resistance is less. In herpes zoster the outline of the vesicles is corymbiform, and their development and arrangement are determined by the peri- pheral distribution of the irritated nerve fibres. The herpetoid vesicles of certain nerve injuries, described by Charcot, Weir Mitchell, and others, are small, scattered, acutely pointed elevations filled with clear serous fluid. From the fact that they tend to leave scars we may infer that they are the result of a colliquative process, like those of zona, and not a manifestation of a general serous inflammation. The vesicles of cheiropompholyx, which some authoiities regard as a form of eczema, are characterised by the depth of their position and by a curious trans- lucency, which gives to them the aspect of boiled sago grains deeply buried in the skin. The presence of vesicles in large numbers in the course of eczema is to be taken as evidence of a high degree of irritation with (usually) diminished resistance of the skin. With the rupture of the vesicle the serous albuminous exudate escapes to the free surface, where it coagulates or "scabs." The period occupied by the exudate in gaining free access to the open surface is, in some cases, marked by intense burning and itching. But these sensations vary in intensity according to the degree of sensitive- ness of the patient's nerves. (For ti'eatment, see Clinical Tj'pes of Eczema, p. .36.) The pustule of eczema is a vesicle to which leucocytes have been added in numbers sufficient to render it opaque to light. When pustules are the predominant lesion in eczema it may be taken for granted that some special element has entered into the causation of the inflam- mation. In many cases this is due to the impressionableness and sensitiveness of the cells of the skin and blood, as in infants and young children, in others to a greatly impaired resistive power of the skin, as in weakly debilitated people. Frequently it is due to the invasion by pyogenic organisms. In rare instances the organisms are chromogenic, when the pustules assume a special colour, orange or blue, accord- ing to the organisms. Pustulation is common in hairy regions, such as the scalp and face, owing to the favourable conditions for develop- ment of miei'obes afforded by the succulent follicles. The FapitJe.—Tiiis lesion may be clinically defined as a minute, rounded, conical, dry elevation of the epithelium. According to Unna it is a little hypertrophic, a^dematous thickening of the jDrickle-cell epithelium. When the papule is the predominant lesion of eczema it is an indication, as we already stated, of the low pressure of the exudate. The drier and more solid the papule, in a word, the nearer it approaches to the true lichen papule, the more