66 ELECTRO- of muscles and nerves; and electro-puncture is the electrolysis of a part of the body or of its tissues by means of a needle electrode (this metliod of treating uterine fibroids is now generally abandoned). Electrolysis. Definition . . ' . . . .66 In Angioma ...... 66 In Aneurysm . . . . . .67 In other conditions . . . .67 See also Aneurysm {Treatment, Electrolysis); Capillaries, Diseases of {Treatment of Angi- oma, congenital and non-congenital) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Dilatation of Lymphatics). Electrolysis is the decomposition into simpler elements of a substance placed between the poles of an electric battery. The process as applied to the human body is somewhat com- plicated. There is first the primary electrolysis, whereby the tissues are decomposed and oxygen and acids appear at the positive, hydrogen and alkalies at the negative pole. But, secondly, these nascent substances necessarily react on anything in their neighboiirhood, whether elec- trode or tissue, with which they have chemical affinity. This secondary electrolysis gives char- acter to the sloughs produced, and these results may be still further modified by the metal of the electrode. Yet, again, the passage of a galvanic current through tissue must undoubtedly have an effect not only at the electrodes where the destruction is produced, but throughout the whole electrolyte. In nerve tissue it may pro- foundly affect the power of transmitting im- pressions even up to complete abrogation, and similarly with cells or fibres it may modify or annul their contractility or nutritive properties. These effects of the constant current of elec- tricity may be applied with beneficial result in various forms of disease, such as angioma, aneur- ysm, various forms of solid or cystic tumour, stricture, abnormalities of hair, etc. 1. In angioma the action is chiefly upon the solid constituents of the growth. At the nega- tive pole the slough produced is diffuse, large, very slightly contractile ; at the positive limited, small, and tending to condense in healing; the one corresponding to an alkaline, the other to an acid cauterisation. Practically in electro- lysing a iiEevus we introduce so much caustic potash or nitric acid made out of the tissues. We introduce these nascent caustics in such infinitely minute division, and we so destroy tissue in producing them, that they cannot be caiTied injuriously into the circulation. By doing this subcutaneously we avoid the evils of putrefaction and we conserve the skin. If properly performed the effect is that after a little tenderness the slough is slowly absorbed without suppuration and without scar. The cases of neevus, therefore, in which elec- trolysis should be used are the mixed and subcutaneous varieties on the face or hands, where a scar is to be avoided, and those else- where which from size or situation are not amen- able to excision. In these cases its advantages are, that it is absolutely safe, that with sufficient perseverance it cannot fail to cure, and that it does so without leaving the slightest mark. It is necessary to recognise its limitations. It cannot cure a pure cutaneous ntevus, or port- wine stain, without leaving an unsightly scar. In the mixed variety the discoloration generally disappears when the subcutaneous portion is destroyed, but in a few, perhaps 2 or 3 per cent, a slight stain remains. Some cases may be cured by a single operation, many require more, even up to 8 or 10, so that when a scar is not important excision is better because quicker. The method of operating is simple, but re- quires attention to detail. The best strength of current is from twenty to forty milliamperes. In the neighl)Ourhood of large nerves it should be less. It should never exceed eighty. It should be so arranged that it can be increased from zero without shock. The needles should be insulated with vulcanite. I know of no improvement on those originally introduced. The length of the exposed point must correspond to the size of the nsevus, vary- ing from an eighth to three-quarters of an inch. For the sake of sharpness steel is the best material, but in that case the positive pole requires to be resharpened after each operation. The positive pole is placed in a portion of the tumour where it can do no harm. It does little though useful and firm work, and need not be moved more than once or twice during an operation. The negative, on the contrary, is held in the hand and constantly moved about. Its action is diffvise and therefore more valuable, but it requires constant watching lest it destroy the skin. This is the only difficulty in the operation—to produce sufficient destruction of the ntevus without touching the skin. In early operations it is better to do too little than too much. The amount of swelling and induration are your guides, and the slightest pallor of skin should make you stop. I find it rarely useful to repeat the operation under six weeks. Very little may start the process of involution, and the destroyed portion is not absorbed under that time. What has been said of electrolysis in naevus applies with little modification to other forms of angioma. The degree of resistance will vary according to the nature of the tumour. Cirsoid aneurysm and aneurysm by anastomosis are often spoken of as if they were one disease. The application of the names is unimportant, but it ought to be definitely understood that these are two essentially distinct forms of tumour.