368 FRENUM Frenum.—Any slight band or bridle-like structure, such as the frenum or frenulum of the tongue, of the lips, of the clitoris, and of the prepuce. Freyer's Operation.—Total extirpa- tion of the prostate gland by the suprapubic route for the radical cure of prostatic enlarge- ment. Friars Balsam. Tinctura Benzoini Composita. ;S'ee Benzoinum. Friction. See Chest, Clinical Investi- gation OF {Auscultation) ; Liver, Tropical Abscess [Local Signs, Peritoneal Friction) ; Mediastinum (Chronic Mediastinitis, Diagnosis); Pericardium, Diseases of {Pericarditis, Physi- cal Signs); Pleura, Diseases of {Acute Pleurisy, Physical Signs). Fried lander's Bacillus. See Ear, Middle, Acute Inflammation {Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Bacteriology); Scleroma Neonatorum {Causes, Bacteria). Friedreich's Ataxia. — Hereditary ataxia. See Brain, Cerebellum, Diseases op {Cerebellar Her edo - Ataxy, Diagnosis); Tabes DoRSALis {Diagnosis). Friedreich's Disease. — Paramyo clonus Multiplex. See Spasm (Varieties, Para- myoclonus niultiplex). Friedreich's Sign.—Diastolic collapse of the cervical veins in cases of adherent peri- cardium. See Pericardium, Diseases of {Ad- herent Pericardium, Physical Signs). Friedrichshall.—A mineral water con- taining sulphate of magnesium and sodium salts. See Mineral Waters {Sulphated, Bitter Waters). Frisch's Bacterium. See Nose, Examination op {Secretion, Bacteria, Rhino- scleroma). Frontal Lobes. See Brain, Physio- logy {Sensory Centres); Physiology, Nervous System {Cerebrum). Frontal Sinus. See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Anatomy, Acute and Chronic Inflammation, Treatment). Frost. See Meteorology. Frost - bite. See Ear, External, Diseases of {Auricle, Frost-bite); First Aid {Sund7-y Accidents, Frost-bite); Gangrene (Varie- ties, From Cold, Frost-bite) ; Raynaud's Disease {Diagnosis). Fruits. See Diet {Fruits, Composition); Invalid Feeding ; Sprue {Fruit Cure). Fryer's Destructor.—A slow com- bustion furnace (without a forced draught) for the disposal of refuse ; a fume cremator may be added. Frying. See Invalid Feeding {Prepara- tion of Meats, with the Juices retained). Fuchsine.—A staining agent, consisting usually of a mixture of rosaniline and para- rosaniline hydrochlorides, employed in micro- scopy ; a cell readily stained with fuchsine is called a fuchsinophile; fuchsine has been used as a medicine in albuminuria. FuCOl.—An oily fluid obtained from various species of Fucus and Laminaria, recommended as a substitute for cod liver oil. Fucus.—Seaweed. Fucus dulcis in certain parts of the world is used as food, and it has been employed as a remedy for obesity and as a diaphoretic and antipyretic. Fucus vesicu- losus or sea-wrack contains sodium and iodine in considerable quantity, and has also been recommended in obesity and as " seaweed baths." Fulgurant.—A descriptive term applied to the pains of tabes dorsalis ; lightning-like in suddenness and severity. Fuller's Earth.—A dusting powder, consisting of aluminium silicate. See Alum. Fulmar Oil. — An oil obtained from several species of birds on the Island of St. Kilda, formerly regarded by some as the cause of the tetanus neonatorum once so common on the Island, but now known to have no such ill effects; it resembles cod liver oil. Fulminating".—A term applied to diseases which develop very quickly, run a rapid course, and terminate fatally. Fumaria.—Common Fumitory {Fumaria Officinalis) has.been used as a tonic medicine; Fumaria capreolata (Earth-Smoke) has been employed for removing freckles ; and F. parvi- flora has a reputation in the East in the treat- ment of malaria. Fumaria officinalis con- tains the alkaloid fumarine and fumaric acid (C4H4O,). Fumigation. See Disinfection ; Syphilis {Treatment of Secondary Syphilis, Mercurial Fumigation). Functional.—A term applied to non- organic diseases or disorders, to those not in- volving structural alterations. See Balneology {Hysterical and Functional Paralysis); Hemi- plegia {Hysterical or Functional); Liver, Diseases of {Functional). Fundus Oculi. See Retina and Optic Nerve {Anatomy); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptoma- tology, Eye, State of Fundus).