FACIAL NERVE, PARALYSIS OF 235 Meningeal Lesions.—Another place where the facial nerve may become involved in disease is, as has already been said, at the base of the brain, between its exit from the pons and the internal auditory meatus. The most reliable evidence that this is the seat of lesion is the detection of afi'ection of the auditory nerve on the same side, in the absence of middle ear disease. It must not, however, be supposed that the two nerves are always both affected under such circumstances, despite the fact that t\\Qy be in such close contiguity, for, on the contrary, one or other may be alone affected, (xummatous meningitis is commonly the cause of an affection of the nerve in this situation, but tumours may also be operative, as may fracture of the base of the skull. Lesions of Cerebral Type. — The paralysis which results from a lesion situated above the facial nucleus, either involving the facial centre in the cerebral cortex, or some part of the motor path between this and the facial nucleus in the pons, is characterised by a defect of movement which is chief!}- seen in the lower part of the face, the upper half suffering much less in degree ; then again there is commonlj' a marked difference in regard to the Ijehaviour of the facial movements on voluntary efforts as com- pared with the effects of emotion, for on smiling or crying the defect of movement is, as a rule, much less evident than on voluntary effort, such as showing the teeth. Moreover, the facial muscles respond normally on electrical excita- tion, and there are usually signs of similar affection of the limbs on the same side, con- stituting a hemiplegia of ordinary type. Facial Diph'(ji.a.—Instead of the facial palsy lieing luiilateral as commonly obtains, some- times both sides of the face are affected. Gummatous meningitis, already referred to as a cause of facial paralysis, may result in facial diplegia, as ma}'- fracture of the base of the skull, and in both cases bilateral deafness may be associated with the facial palsy. The diphtheritic poison is, however, responsible for the largest proportion of cases of facial diplegia, under which circumstance many other muscles supplied by cranial and spinal nerves may be involved, notably the palate, ocular muscles, and diaphragm. The ordinary so-called "rheu- matic" facial paralysis, already fully described, is occasionally bilateral, in which case one side is usually affected first, and the other subsequently becomes involved. Double otitis media has been laiown to cause facial diplegia, as has periostitis c(5nsequent on teeth extraction and forceps de- livery; but in connection with the last class of case it must be remembered that bilateral facial paralysis may be congenital in origin. The facial diplegia met with in the facio - scapulo- humeral type of myopathy is characterised by affection of the orbicularis palpebrarum and •oris, in addition to which the zygomatici are usually defective. There is, accordingly, in- ability to close the eyes jiroperly, the lower lip hangs down and is everted, the patient is unable to pout, whistle, or blow out the cheeks, and on smiling the angles of the mouth are not drawn upwards and outwards as obtains normally when the zygomatici are intact. There is diminished response in the atrophied muscles to both forms of current proportional to the degree of atrophy present, but the reaction of degeneration is not met with. Prognosis.—The prognosis in facial paralysis is largely influenced l)y the probable seat of the lesion causing the defect, and its nature. In- dications that the condition is due to an affec- tion of the nucleus of the nerve, whether consequent on gross lesions in the pons or on chronic degenerative changes in the cells of the facial nucleus, are of serious import, and recovery cannot be expected. Evidence that the nerve is implicated outside the pons is little less serious, except that when due to gummatous meningitis some improvement may result from appropriate treatment. Prognosis is eminently more favourable when an affection of the peri- jDheral j^ortion of the nerve is responsible for the paralysis, but it naturally varies with the severity of the affection, and to some extent with its cause. When due to otitis media the results are, as a rule, unsatisfactory, even if the ear disease be successfully treated ; traumatic cases are usually mifavourable, as are also those in which there is reason to suspect htemorrhage into the nerve. In the variety due to cold, as indeed in any form due to a peripheral affection of the nerve, an electrical examination affords the best means of arriving at a reliable diagnosis. If faradic excitability be preserved in the nerve at the end of about ten days, recovery may be confidently expected in about a month ; if there is notable diminution of faradic excitability at the same period, recovery will probably be de- layed until the expiration of about two months ; while if there be no response to this form of current at the time already indicated, three or more months usually elajjse before recovei'y can take place. Faradic excitability may not return for two or three months, however, and yet recovery may ultimately ensue ; but under such circumstances prognosis ought to be most guarded, and so favourable a result should never be promised. The fact that contracture may be subsequently substituted for paralysis must never be lost sight of, especially in severe cases, a condition which if slight may be re- covered from, but which when pronounced is usually permanent, though it may lessen some- what in time. Treatment.—Little can be done whicii is of advantage in the treatment of facial paralysis, except when it is due to a peripheral afi'ection. In any case in which syphilis is suspected, how- ever, mercur}' and iodide of potassium ought to