GOUT 502 In this connection it is well to emphasise that this question will never be ascertained by mere analysis of the intestinal contents. What we desire to know is not so much the nature of the toxines as the reaction of the tissues—blood, blood glands, and tissues generally—to their influence. Yet another query. (v.) Are the injurious effects of various carbohydrates, liquors, and other substances to be explained solely by tiieir interference with the digestion of the proteids in the alimentary canal, or have they in addition the power of more directly exercising an injurious influence on the blood and tissues ? Heredity The tendency to gout is inherited ; it is not infrequently transmitted by the female line (cf. Chart), although specially manifested in males; in hereditary descent the tendency be- comes inextricably mixed up with the tendency to other diseases — rheumatism, rheumatoid arthritis, tuberculosis, etc. If we add to these points the statement that environment, using that term in its widest sense, is an all-important factor in the explanation of the numerous pecidiarities seen in hereditary ti"ansmission, we have stated all that is definitely known on the subject. Hutchinson and Duckworth accept the French view of the existence of an arthritic diathesis, from which arise as branches two distinct classes of disorders connnonly recognised as gout and rheumatism. The former further agrees with the views of the older writers who recognised a mixed condition of the two dis- orders. There is every reason to believe that this mixed condition frequently occurs, but the term rheumatic gout is a misleading and in- accurate one. I do not intend to enter into any discussion as to the relationship of gout to rheumatism and rheumatoid arthritis, but refer the reader to the valuable writings of Hutchinson and Duckworth. While the subject is an in- teresting and fascinating one,- our present knowledge will not admit of any practical observations on it. As Thomson has well said, the hopeful outlook is not in theorising but in experiment, in the collection of precisely ob- served data, and in the skilful use of statistical methods. In gout certain experimental investigations are necessary before our knowledge of its hereditary aspects can be advanced. These can best be carried out by the induction of gout in lower animals, e.g. hens, etc., observing the eflfects of transmission of the gouty tendency to succeeding generations. At the same time, the statistical method is of undoubted value, but from its nature is clearly less valuable unless the statistics are complete and reliable, a com- bination not readily obtainable in practice. For some years I have been interested in carrying out this method as opportunity aff'orded, and have been fortunate in securing a particularly good illustration of the effects of the trans- mission of the disease. I am satisfied that the information given in the charts is reliable, but it is doubtless more incomplete than indicated. Nevertheless many points of the greatest in- terest can be learned from them. The relation- ship to rheumatism, diabetes, obesity, tuber- culosis, malignant and other diseases, all find representation in a single family. Gout is a general disorder of metabolism, and its adequate consideration requires careful study of the various derangements seen in succeeding generations, which in turn includes a considera- tion of variations in environment in the different individuals. With regard to one of the asso- ciated derangements of metabolism it is interest- ing to note that according to the Registrar- General's returns the mortality from diabetes is on the increase ("Diabetes," vol. ii.). Diagnosis and Prognosis The diagnosis of gout must be made from the history and general character of each case. In acute gout, and in chronic cases with well-marked external manifestations, there is, as a ride, no difficulty, but in many otlicr cases there is no pathognomonic symptom whatever to distinguish it from rheumatism, with which it is liable to be confounded. The intermediate diagnosis of the two diseases approach each other so nearlj^, that to discriminate between them with our present knowledge may be impossible. In acute gout of the monarticular type a differential diagnosis has to be made from gonorrhooal arthritis. At least one case of very pronovuiced gout has come under my observation where the initial attack, which occurred at the age of twenty, and which in- volved the right wrist and back of hand, was erroneously regarded as a gonorrhoeal arthritis. In this connection it may be well to state that Jonathan Hutchinson believes that gonorrhoeal arthritis is more prone to occur in peoj^le of gouty habit, but in this instance that origin could be reasonably excluded, and the great rarity of the condition in a Scottish hospital fairly explains the error in diagnosis. In a few cases of acute polyarticular gout it may be by no means easy to differentiate acute rheui^iatism, and careful regard must be paid to the state of the blood, the previous history, and the measure of reaction to the remedies appropriate to each disease. Salicylate of soda in sufficient doses will certainly influence acute rheumatism, and will probably have very little or no effect on acute gout, while, on the other hand, colchicum will almost certainly exercise a remedial influence on the latter disease. Although much could be written on the sub- ject of diagnosis, much uncertainty must still attach to many instances of irregular gout, e.g. lumbago, sciatica, and the like. After all, the distinction is often of little practical importance,