GOUT 517 defective metabolism, which act directly as a local irritant, and by their removal as well as by the withdrawal of any other indigested food- stuffs in the alimentary canal a condition of rest is established in the general cell metabolism, which enables the tissues to cope more successfully with the surfeit of nutritious matter to which they have been subjected. This latter is rendered more easy, if, as is generally the case, the patient's diet for the few following days is a more strictly physiological one. The depletion effected by the rapid withdrawal of some fluid by the alimentary canal doubtless assists the re-establishment of a general equilibrium. The occasions of these various congestive attacks in a young subject are probably, as with the paroxysms in adults, to be explained as the result of long-standing over - nutrition, with deficient elimination, and the excess immediately preceding the attack has merely strained the capacity of the tissues—intestinal viscus and general cell life — to breaking point. The general plan of treatment appropriate to such a case may be briefly summarised— i. Moderation in diet — a slight all round diminution of the total qiiantity of food con- sumed at each meal ; the acquirement of self- control. ii. Restriction and gradual cessation of the milk-drinking between foods, and also a diminu- tion in the amount of fluid drunk at meal times. His habit is to drink very large quantities of fluid at the different meals, which fluid would be more wisely taken in the intervals. iii. Limitation of the jams, sweets, and fruits, of which he partakes inordinately, also care in the consumption of the various sweet summer bevei'ages. (These patients are as a nde addicted to sweets of different kinds). iv. Daily satisfactory evacuation of the bowels, by artificial means if necessary. In any case, to be supplemented by an occasional saline (once in 8 or 10 days). No other restrictions are called for. Nor arc any recommendations as to exercise, hydro- pathic or other measures, the least necessary so long as the patient's inner respiratory activity is at the high level entailed by his being in first rate physical training. However, it is well again to refer to the fact that the patient finds that strict attention to the last of these direc- tions alone suffices to keep him free from any active manifestations of his gouty tendency, and he acts accordingly. This circumstance in no way invalidates the importance of the other recommendations, the neglect of which will certainly, in course of time, with the altered habits incidental to adult life, lead to other characteristic developments of a minor or major type. Succeeding years of indiscretion pro- gressively increase the hold of the disease on the tissues, and further experience of the case may illustrate that the eftbrts of nature, even when aided by a much more strict regime than that just recommended, are quite incapable of extinguishing the disease. 2. Mr. B., fct. 26, mason. Chronic articidar gout. Lithfjemia. Acute exacerbations. This case is selected to illustrate some points in the dietetic treatment of the disease in its more acute phases. The patient was a hospital one, and a full record of his case with a series of laboratory observations made on his general metabolism are in course of publication {Journal of Pathology, summer 1900). I have not the same knowledge of the later history in this case as of the others; but the points that I wish to emphasise are sufficiently brought out by the notes available. Unlike the others recorded, this patient was in the habit of passing large quantities of free uric acid, and he was thin, weak, and slightly cachectic in appearance. The salient features are as follows. The extent of his weakness may be gaviged from the fact that two months after the acute attack the record of the dynamometer gave — R. hand, 55; L. hand, 35 :— The hereditary history showed the father to have been subject to rheumatic fever, the grandfather to have been rheumatic, and one brother to be subject to " attacks like the patient." He enjoyed good health until four- teen years of age, when he had a " rheumatic " attack lasting three weeks. When ast. twenty, similar although less severe attacks developed at intervals, and when set. twenty-three a specially severe one lasted thirteen weeks. When set. twenty-six, patient was admitted to hospital suffering from well-marked acute polyarticular manifestations, supervening in joints and tissues already the seat of chronic deforming gout. The ankles, knees, hands, elbows, and ears were all involved, crystals of urate of soda being readily obtained from the deposits in the ears. Patient had been a fairly heavy meat eater, a temperate drinker, addicted to very little exercise, and accustomed to the exposure necessitated by his trade, which entailed a considerable amount of travelling from place to place. He did not think that diet had played an important part in the manifestation of symptoms, but he attributed an influence to the drinking water of variovis localities. Tomatoes were a special w-eakness, and he had partaken freely without apparent detriment. After recovery from the acute attack patient was gradually put on a light hospital diet, as follows :— Breakfast.—Porridge and milk, toast, tea, and frequently an egg. Dinner.—Soup, bread, and fowl, fish, or red meat, with potatoes ; or fish, fowl, or meat