ECTOPIC GESTATION 14 ostium of the tube into one of the recently ruptured follicles on the surface of the ovary, and that there it coalesces with the ovum. But for all practical purposes tubal is the only primary form, and falls now to be con- sidered in detail. III. Tubal. — (a) Causes. — The conditions which lead to the production of this abnorm- ality are various; and first one meets the un- settled difficulty of determining where impreg- nation normally takes place. The older writers believed, and some modern authorities agree with them, that impregnation usually took place in some part of the Fallopian tube, whereas recent writers allude to impregnation as more fre- quently occurring in the uterus itself. Indeed, Lawson Tait goes the length of stating that it never normally occurs elsewhere. As to the actual causes which bring about the develop- ment of a fertilised ovum in the Fallopian tube, prominence distinctly has been given to inflam- matory changes in the tube itself, destruction of the cilia — desquamative salpingitis,—and that there is truth in this is pi-oved by the numerous cases in which tubal pregnancy occurs in patients who have suffered from tubal disease. Bland-Sutton, however, and Taylor hold that this condition as a cause does not exist. The former, indeed, goes the length of saying that a healthy Fallopian tube is more likely to become gravid than one that has been diseased. Tait gives a very interesting account of his theory, showing that as the action of the cilia in the tube is from the ovary down to the uterus, the onward movement of the ovum is facilitated, while the upward movement of the spermatozoon is materially interfered with. In a case, however, of desquamative salpingitis, where the cilia are absent, the spermatozoon easily enters the tube and reaches the ovum, which is fertilised and develops there. It has, however, recently been proved that the move- ment of the cilia in the uterus is from above downwards, and not from below upwards, as has been previously supposed, so that Tait's ingeniously simple theory cannot now be accepted. Congenital deformity of the tubes, showing itself in excessive tortuosity, or the presence of a diverticulum, no doubt acts occasionally in producing the condition; and, further, a simple inflammatory swelling of the mucosa is no doubt a cause of obstruction to the onward passage of the ovum, especially in the middle and outer segments of the tube. Cases have also been recorded, but they are, of course, rare, where a polypus or a myoma has acted as a valve, and so blocked the inner end of the tube. In addition to this, it is true that abnormal development of the tube, causing decreased muscular power and peristaltic movement, may delay the passage of the ovum. {h) Varieties.—The Fallopian tube, considered anatomically, naturally divides itself into three distinct parts :— 1. Interstitial,—that part of the tube which lies in the thickness of the uterine wall. 2. Infundibular,—the expended part of the tube close to the fimbriated extremity. 3. Ampullar,—the main portion of the tube which stretches between the two first-mentioned parts. These three parts of the tube give their names to the three forms of tubal pregnancy, according as the ovum settles in one or other of them. We must now discuss each of these forms in turn. 1. Interstitial tubal pregnancy or tubo-uterine is really not ectopic pregnancy at all. Taylor very correctly divides tubo-uterine pregnancy into two varieties :— (1) Primary interstitial pregnancy. (2) Secondary, caused by invasion of the uterine wall by a growing tubal pregnancy. Many cases of so-called interstitial pregnancy have been recorded, but they are generally by older authors, and recent specimens of true tubo-uterine pregnancy are extremely rare, and probably these early recorded cases have been really cornual pregnancies. In this variety the environments of the gestation sac differ from those in ampullar and infundibular pregnancy. The muscular fibres hypertrophy, and though rupture is almost inevitable, it does not occur so early as in the two other forms. Occasionally the foetus escapes into the uterus, and is either expelled at once or goes on to full time, and is then born in the natural way, but definite proof of these possi- bilities has never been obtained. Rupture much more frequently occurs into the abdominal cavity with profuse hjsmorrhage and a fatal termination in a very short time. It is unquestionably the most dangerous of all the forms of ectopic gestation, fatal rupture generally occurring about the fifth month. It has been observed that in this variety a remarkable asymmetry of the uterus is found, due to the invasion of the fundus uteri by the growing ovum, and on this account the con- dition may have been mistaken for a cornual pregnancy. 2. Infundibular Tubal Pregnancy.—The ovum may become implanted in the outer third of the Fallopian tube in the infundibulum, and in such cases various possibilities present themselves. The abdominal ostium is not so liable to become hermetically sealed in this as in the other varieties, so that free haemorrhage may occur from the seat of the pregnancy into the abdominal cavity. Occasionally the ovum is so lightly attached within the fimbriated extremity that it is extruded entire into the peritoneal cavity accompanied by hfemorrhage, but without any actual rupture of the tubal walls. This