455 GLANDERS (FARCY) cultures they lost their virulence in a few days. They have been found to resist putrefaction for 14-.'')0 days, to survive 15-20 days in water. When kept in a moist state at 2.3° they were still alive and virulent after 20 days, whereas they had died within five days at 15°-16°. They are killed by a -n-oVo sublimate solution in one hour, by turpentine water (^-g-o) in one hour, by carbolic acid (5 per cent) in five minutes, etc.; in other words, they are readily destroyed by the ordinary antiseptics. When exposed on threads to sunlight they are de- stroyed in one day. The statements of authors with regard to the effects of heat vary con- siderably, this being evidently due to the different conditions under which the experi- ments were carried out. When heated for one minute at 62°, or ten minutes at 55° in culture media, they are killed (Marx, 1899). Bonome (1894), however, found them alive when heated to 70' for six hours in a moist state, though they were killed at 70°-75° in five to six minutes, at 90°-100° in three minutes. Finally Bromberg (1891) found that all the bacilli in old cultures were not destroyed by half an hour's exposure at 100°. {See also Sirena and Alessi, 1892; Plemper van Balen, 1897.) Mode of Infection.—Glanders infection may usually be traced to direct contact with diseased animals, whose discharges from the nose, as also pus, urine, saliva, and milk, have been found to contain the bacilli. The secretions of ulcers and nasal discharge are particTilarly dangerous. Infection may take place indirectly through harness, blankets, etc., that have been in contact with glandered animals and become soiled with diseased secretions. In many cases a lesion of the skin serves as a port of entry. Babes (1888) considers that infection may occur through the uninjured skin, having succeeded in infecting guinea-pigs by applying a mixture of bacilli in vaseline to their skins. The bacilli penetrated into the hair-follicles, and passed thence through the epithelial layer into the lymphatics. Cornil and Nocard (1890) ob- tained a similar result in two out of fifteen experiments. V. Babes (1893) cites two cases in man where infection seems to have occurred tln-ough the intact skin. It has been claimed, but remains unpi'oved, that infection may occur tiu'ough blood-sucking flies. Infection has been produced experimentallj^ through inhalation of dried bacilli, and the nasal mucous membranes and lungs may be primarily affected. Lesions in these situations are, however, frequently due to secondary infection, the bacilli having reached the part frotn primarily affected organs elsewhere. The nasal mucous membrane offers an especially favourable nidus for the multi- plication of bacilli carried thither by the blood- current. Friedborger and Frohner (1896) con- sider that in nine-tenths of the cases in horses infection occurs through inhalation, but this view is rendered initenable through Nocard's (1894-97) exact experiments proving the readi- ness with which they may be infected through feeding. Nocard considers the intestinal tract to be the chief port of entry. If pure cultures of the glanders bacilli are mixed with the food or drink of horses, donkeys, rabbits, or guinea- pigs, infection is certain to occur. At autopsy numerous minute translucent or even calcified nodules are observable in the lungs. The nega- tive results obtained in such experiments by Cadeac and Malet (1894) may be explained through their using less virulent cultures than did Nocard. Infection through feeding has certainly occurred spontaneously in dogs, cats, and animals in menageries. Infection of the foetus occiu's in a limited number of cases in the horse, dog, and guinea-pig (Loffler 1886, Cadeac and Malet 1886, observed this twice in thirteen experiments; Bonome 1894). A few cases of infection have occurred in bacterio- logical laboratories, once through the prick of a hypodermic needle whilst inoculating an animal. Persons who have to do with horses are natur- ally most affected, nevertheless some cases have been observed where no such connection could be traced. Zawadzki, and Nencki and Pruszynki (1896) rejjort the case of a physician who in- fected himself whilst operating upon a fellow- practitioner who also subsequently died of glanders. Veterinarians have become infected through being bitten whilst examining a horse's mouth, or through secretion being thrown upon the apparently intact conjunctiva. Remy (1897) has collected nine cases of man to man infec- tion. He cites the case of a woman who became infected whilst making horse-hair mattresses, as also that of a person who acquii'ed glanders from being struck by the fist of a man who owned a glandered horse. Grawleswki (1893) cites the case of a washerwoman who developed a glanders pustule three days after washing the clothes of a man who had died of the disease. He also tells of an old man who attended a person who died of glanders, and developed initial lesions in places where he was accus- tomed to scratch himself. Tessier (1852) and Cooper (1887) made observations which indi- cated that infection may occur in man through coitus. Gibert (1840) and others since have proved the auto-inoculability of glanders in man and animals. It is evident, then, that a man may infect himself in other jjarts of his body through scratching himself. Increase and Decrea.se of Virulence. — The bacillus rapidly loses its virulence in cultures, so that it is necessary from time to time to pass it through a susceptible animal. Gamaleia (1890) was able to increase the virulence by continued passage through Spermophilus, and Foth (1896) did this with field-mice. Tedcschi (1893) did this through intracerebral inocula- tion of susceptible animals, being able to kill