231 FACIAL HEMIATROPHY Cutaneous sensibility is preserved over the aftected side of the face, and the sense of taste is preserved even in the cases in which the corre- sponding half of the tongue is diminished in size. Morbid Anatomy and Pathohx/y.—Five cases have come to necropsy, but in only one of these (Mendel) have the morbid changes been fully described. The facial nerve was intact, but tliere was proliferating interstitial neuritis of the fifth cranial nerve and atrophy of its de- scending root, and of the cells of the substantia ferruginea pontis. Microscopical examination of the tissues of the face has revealed atrophy of the papillfe of the skin, with no definite cliange in the epidermis, avid wasting of the subcutaneous fat and connective tissue. The malady was variously regarded by older writers as a " trophoneurosis," a " vaso-motor change," and a "sympathetic aftection," all of wiiich views were purely hypothetical. Anotlier hypothesis is that the condition depends on an arrest of development, though it is not known how this is induced, except that Hutchinson has suggested that it is due to morphooa of the fifth nerve. The view that has gained widest acceptance is that advanced by Mendel, who regards the facial atrophy as the result of an interstitial neuritis of the fifth nerve, the con- dition present in the case examined by him. Objections have, however, been raised to this view, so that it cannot at present be said that there is any consensus of opinion as to the pathology of the affection ; on the contrary, there is plenty of room for fiu'ther investigation, seeing that so few facts have as yet been ascer- tained from the small amount of pathological material that has been available in the past. Diafpiosis.—Tlicre is little chance of a well- developed case of this kind being mistaken for any other malady, as the aftection can usually be recognised at a glance. Several conditions, howevei', bear a superficial resemblance to facial hemiatrophy. Among these are a congenital inequality of the two sides of the face, the facial asymmetry associated with congenital wry-neck, atrophy of the facial muscles as a result of poliomyelitis aft'ccting the facial nucleus, the asymmetry of the face consequent on facial hemihypertrophy, that pi'esent in infan- tile hemiplegia, paralysis with atrophy in the distril)ution of tlic facial and trigeminal nerves, and paralysis of the cervical sympathetic. In the cases of congenital asymmetry there is not the alteration in the consistence and colour of the skin, nor is there the same difter- ence in regard to the growth of the hair. Where the atrophy is consequent on degenerative changes in the muscles, as in poliomyelitis or other aftections of the facial nucleus or nerve, tlie electrical reactions readily determine with which aftection we have to deal in that, as has already been said, the electrical reactions are not altei'ed in facial hemiatrophy, unless it be that the muscles respond more readily to faradism than they do on the unaffected side. When the fifth nerve is involved as well as the facial altered electrical reaction in the muscles supplied ].)y its motor division and the presence of cutaneous anaesthesia make the nature of the case clear. Asymmetry consequent on hemiplegia, infantile or otherwise, is readily distinguished by evi- dences of hemiplegia in the limbs on the affected side, such as defective power, imperfect develop- ment, spasticity, alteration of the reflexes, and the like. Sympathetic paralysis is recognised by the fact that the pupil is small on the aftected side, and does not dilate on stimulation of the side of the neck, and there is partial ptosis when the lids are at rest, though the aftected one moves as well as its fellow when the patient looks upwai-ds. Prognosis.—Once developed the aftection as a rule progresses, though it does not in the least tend to shorten the duration of life. Spontane- ous arrest occurs in some cases, though on what this depends we are ignorant; it cannot be said that therapeutic measures lead to this happy result. Treatment.—-There is no known treatment that has any influence on the course of the affection. Massage, facial gymnastics, and gal- vanism all deserve a careful trial, and such local measures may be supplemented by the administi'ation of tonics, such as strychnia, arsenic, and iron. In one recorded case a "plumper" of rubber secured to the teeth, but easy to remove for cleaning, considerably im- pi'oved the deformity of the cheek. Facial Hemihypertrophy.—This is a rare condition characterised Ijy a general enlargement of the skin, soft parts, and bones of the side of the face, over the area of distribu- tion of the fifth cranial nerve. A few of the cases described seem to have been congenital in origin, but in others the disease developed at or after puberty. Only two cases have been ex- amined post-mortem, and these agree in showing a pure osseous hypertrophy of all the bones on the affected side ; also a nodular thickening on the anterior aspects of the frontal, malar and maxillary bones, with a similar thickening of the palate, basilar process, and sphenoid. The soft structures are equally involved, the skin being thickened and coarse, and the hair and sebaceous follicles enlarged. The cause of this condition is quite unknown ; it is doubtful if the theory of exaggeration of " trophic " influence would be substantiated by very detailed observations in future cases. Facial Nerve, Paralysis of. Etiology ...... 232 Morbid Anatomy ..... 232 Symptoms ...... 233 Contracture ..... 234