GOUT 509 the fat is mainly found on the underside, and a slice from the back may be readily taken when the underside disa<i;recs. Cod, unless in the very best of condition, is the least digestible of all white fish owing to the great toughness of its fibres, but the head, when boiled, makes an excellent stjck for soup. Of the shell-fish, oysters, mussels, and scallop are all good, and so are also lobsters, crayfish, shrimp, crab, and prawn. Lobster salad or crab pie is quite allowable for young subjects with good digestion. Its nutritive value is not high, and its accepta- bility to the palate is beyond question. Fish should never be over-cooked. The best methods of preparation are boiling and steaming, then comes broiling and grilling, and lastly frying. In not a few cases we find fish are not per- missible. Much, however, depends (jn the cuisinere. A combination of curried fish and rice makes a good dish. When digestion is obviously weak sauces are better avoided. One of the simplest is a little melted butter with chopped parsley. The familiar "butter sauce" is usually an imperfectly cooked indigestible compound. Meat and Jfot Water Cure.—Before leaving the subject of meat reference may be made to the value of an exclusively red meat diet in certain cases of chronic gout. Armstrong {Med. Soc. Transactio7is, 1897) has recorded a series of interesting cases, in which after a course of the usual routine treatment had failed, very great benefit was obtained by the so-called "Salisbury " treatment. The essentials of this treatment are the drinking of three to four pints of hot water daily, a pint to be taken before each meal, and the same quantity at bedtime, and the adminis- tration of one to five i:)Ounds of meat in the twenty-four hours. The meat should consist of beef-steak freed from fat, gristle, and connective tissue, well minced, a little water being added, and then warmed through with gentle heat. I have had no personal experience with this treat- ment, but can readily accept the moderate claims made for it in the paper referred to. The probable explanations of its value have been previously discussed. I would just like to add from experience in other cases tliat if the meat as thus prepared is not readily digested, a yet simpler and more digestible form may be found by taking the l^est beef-steak, freed from fat, and rubbing through a fine sieve until the juice has all passed through, and all the fibrous parts remain. The mince should then be treated as above. The appearance when cooked is just like ver}' fine mince. The value of this prepara- tion is by no means confined to gouty dyspeptics. The course of treatment lasts from four to twelve weeks, and thereafter the patient makes a gradual return to an ordinary dietary. Tlie conclusions I'ormulated by Armstrong from his experience of the treatment are as follows :— 1. That a certain number of cases (not more than '4 per cent) of chrijnio gouty arthritis, recurrent uric acid calculi, and gouty dyspepsia, with fermentative changes, which have proved refractoiy to ordinary methods of treatment and dietary, may be treated by means of an ex- clusively red meat dietary, plus h<jt water drinking, with excellent results. 2. That this method of treatment is irksome and trying, and as, miless it is carried out strictli/ in the first instance, it is apt to do harm, it should only be used in those cases where other methods have failed, or are thought likely to do so. .3. That the cases I'equii'c careful selection and close medical supervision, the details being- modified according to tlie needs of each in- dividual yiatient. 4 That those who sufi'er from persistent albuminiu-ia or organic heart disease ai-e in most instances unfit for this treatment; when, how- ever, it is pi'escribed for them its course shovdd be watched daily. 5. That certain cases of chronic gouty arthritis which fail to improve while on a mixed diet, recover equally well whether on this dietary or on the meat free dietary suggested by Dr. Haig. G. That it is of the utmost importance that no addition, however small, of carbohydrates, saccharine matters, or fruit lie made to the dietary during the first few weeks of treatment — very slight acts of carelessness in this respect having often caused disappointment and failure. 7. That used with due care and discretion this method is a most efficient and sometimes even a brilliant addition to our therapeutic measures. The reader is referred to the original paper for a more detailed account of the treatment and of the reaction of the tissues under its influence. Milk and Milk Products.—As in the case of various other foods, there is much difference of opinion as to the value or necessity of a diet composed largely of milk, milk products, and vegetables. In many cases a course of a strict milk diet is the most suitable, particularly in young and otherwise healthy subjects, but it is much less suitable for adults and the aged. Milk is highly nutritious, and when it is easily digested and no undue fermentation processes induced by its use, a limited course of milk diet is to be commended, the amount and duration being regulated by the effects on the digestive system and by the attitude of the patient towards it. Alkalinity of the urine is favoured or increased by a full milk diet, yet an exclus- ively milk regime is probably in the main un- favourable. However, there is no doubt that the children of gouty parents should be brought up systematically on a diet in which milk and its prodiicts are' the staple, and meat given in very limited quantities. This is specially im-