FILARIASIS 286 XIII. Filaria hominis oris, Leidy, 1850.— Found in the mouth of a child at Philadelphia. Thought by Leidy and Leuckart to be possibly a young immature F. medinensis. Worm 14 cm. long by 0'16 mm. wide. Mouth simple, round. Tail blunt, and furnished with a short hook measuring 12 /x across at its base and 50 yn in length. XIV. Filaria lymphatica, Treutler. Syn.: Hamularia lymphatica, Treutler, 1793; F. hominis hronchialis, Rud., 1819; F. lymphatica, Moquin-Tandon, 1860.—Found by Treutler in hypertrophied lymphatic glands, and in 1879 by Zahn. Diesing and Weinland consider it identical with Strongylus longivaginatus (paradoxus). Railliet thinks it more probably a male F. inermis. A filiform worm, sHghtly flattened laterally, measuring 26 mm., brown in colour, with white spots, and almost transparent pos- teriorly. XV. Filaria restiformis, Leidy, 1880.—Prob- ably a pseudo-parasite (Railliet); expelled in the urine of a labourer in America. II. FlLARIiE AFFECTING AnIMALS XVI. Filaria equina, Abildgaard. Syn. : Gordius equinus, Abildg., 1789 ; F. equi, Gmelin, 1789; F. papulosa, Rud., 1802; F. equin/x,, Blanchard, 1849.—F. equina is found in the peritoneal cavity of the horse, donkey, and mule, and may pass into the tunica vaginalis, produc- ing hydrocele, orchitis, and peri-orchitis ; it is situated between the testicle and epididymis (Ercolani, Schmidt and Pottinger, Owen and Schmidt). It was once found by Gourdon in a Fallopian tube. Less frequently it is found in the pleural cavity (Mengers). Abildgaard found it between the dura and pia mater, Rudolphi in the intestine, and it was found in the liver by Sonsino in Egypt and Colin in Alfort. The filariae which occur (usually in the aqueous humor) in the eye of the horse are generally referred to this species. Neumann (1897) con- cludes from the examination of thirteen eye- filarise collected from the horse that these only represented young forms of F. equina. Morphology, etc.—The worm is whitish, filiform, with tapering ends, more especially toward the tail. Integument shows fine trans- verse strife. Mouth small, round, and furnished with a chitinous ring, the margin of which sup- ports laterally two crescentic lips, and forms a simple or indented papilla at a point correspond- ing to the dorsal and ventral median lines, whilst posterior to these are four submedian papilliform chitinous spinules. The male {see Plate, p. 274) is 6-8 cm. long, has a spiral tail, and exhibits four pre- and four post-anal papillae. The female measures 9-12 cm., has a slightly spiral tail terminating in a rounded button, in front of which are two lateral conical protuberances. The worm is viviparous, the embryos measuring about 280 /X by 7 /x. The development is un- known, though it probably takes place as in F. Bancrofti, in an insect host. According to Deupser (1892) the embryos die in water, serum, or humor aqueus in three to six hours, though they remain alive for thirty-six hours in horse's blood. Railliet finds them very sensitive to desiccation. The co-existence of embryos in the blood and adult F. equina in the horse's peritoneum was observed by Wedl (1848) and Sonsino (1876). Deupser (1894) failed to find the embryos in the urine or digestive tract. He introduced gravid F. equina, with proper antiseptic precautions, into the peritoneum of rabbits, and saw embryos appear in the blood after thirty-four hours, and persist there up to thirty-one days. In the horse's peritoneum, the female worms are more numerous than the males (as 23 : 1 Deupser), in the eye as 5 : 8 (Neumann), which would indicate that the eye is not a suitable habitat. Geographical Distribution.—Frequent in East India, rare in America and Europe. Pathogenetic Effects.—Usually the worms produce no symptoms through their presence in the serous cavities. Steele, however, atti'ibuted the cachexia observed by him in a horse to the presence of an enormous number of F. equina in its peritoneum. When present in the eye, ophtlialmia results. In such cases one to two parasites, rarely more, are present, and swim about in the aqueous humor. If left untreated permanent opacity of the cornea usually results. Baruchello describes another aff'ection which is probably due to this parasite, i.e. cutaneous tumours from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pigeon's egg, occurring in spring and summer in horses belonging to a cavalry regiment. The tumours softened, and nematodes were found in the pus. In three horses that died of the disease F. equina was found in the peritoneum. Treatment consists in the extraction of the parasite from the eye, the only situation in which it may become visible. XVII. Filaria hoemorrhagica, Railliet, 1885. Syn.: F. multipapillosa, Condamine and Drouilly, 1878, nec F. multipapilla, Mollin, 1857.— Drouilly (1877) discovered this parasite in the horse. It was found in the subcutaneous inter- muscular and interfascicular connective tissue and spinal cord of a donkey by Railliet and Moussu (1892). Morphology.—The worm is described by Railliet as white, cylindrica], slightly tapering at the ends, particularly at the posterior end. The anterior conical extremity is retractile. The integument is traversed by numerous trans- verse ridges, which go over into many papilli- form projections at the conical portion near the simple circular mouth. The male measures 28 mm. by 0'260-0-280 mm., and has a rounded tail, and two spicules measuring 680-750 and