EXPECTORv^TION 195 —as in bronchiectasis—ulceration of the bronchi is proceedinij,-, and is sometimes present in croupous pneumonia where thei'e is locaUsed necrosis of the liepatised hmg. It is generally (but not invariabl}') absent from the sputum of gangrene, owing to the development of a ferment which dissolves it. But its chief diagnostic value (though this has been somewhat dis- counted in modern days by the ease with which the bacillus can be detected) is in the early diagnosis of phthisis, and since elastic tissue undoubtedly sometimes precedes the bacillus in the sputum, it should be sought for in doubtful cases. The sinuous fibres are highly refractile, with well-defined outlines ; they branch dicho- tomously, and are sharply broken off", not frayed, at the ends. As they may arise from ulceration of the bronchi as well as from changes in the parenchyma of the lung, only those which retain tiie alveolar arrangement justify the diagnosis of phtliisis. Where the fil:)rcs are abundant it is sufficient to place one of the denser portions of the sputum on a slide with a drop of liquor potassre, and examine under the microscope. If they are scanty the sputmn should be boiled for five minutes with an equal bulk of liquor potasste, and diluted with several volumes of water. The deposit collected on standing, or in the centri- fuge, will then contain the fibres. (3) Cuy-schmmm's spirals ajjpear as whitish, rolled-up, sago-like balls ; closer inspection shows them to consist of a coiled spiral thread, which, when extended, may measure 1-2 cm. They appear to consist of cells embedded in a matrix whose delicate fibrils run spirally round a clear, bright, axial thread, which has a convoluted, zigzag course. Some spirals, however, lack the central thread. The source, nature, and mode of formation of these spirals have been much debated. Thej^ certainly arise in the bronchioles, and tiieir spiral character is probably due to the substance of which they consist becoming- twisted as it is expelled. Troup regards the axial thread as epithelial; others look upon it, with the rest of the spiral, as fibrinous. Sputum containing spirals is excessively tenacious, and not infrecpiently shows—sometimes in the spirals —eosinophile cells and Charcot-Leyden crystals. Spirals point to a catarrh of the bronchioles— JironcJiiolitis exudativa (Curschmann); they occur in many cases of asthma, and occasionally in lironchitis, pneumonia, and axlema of the lungs. (4) Fibrinous casts may form in the respira- tory passages as a result of scalds, etc., and in various infective conditions. They also occur in diphtheria, pneumonia, and plastic bronchitis. It may be impossible to make a diagnosis of their source by the microscope alone, but at- tention to the clinical features of the case will usually obviate difficulty in this respect. In plastic bronchitis casts of a large part of the bronchial tree may be expelled, or, in another set of cases, only short branching casts (ob- viously from the smaller bronchioles) are seen. Tlie latter are associated with paroxysmal asthma-like attacks, and it is probable that although they show no spiral arrangement they are allied to true spirals. Casts consist of cells embedded in a homogeneous matrix ; they may contain spirals, Charcot-Leyden crystals, or eosinophile cells. They dissolve in alkalies, and swell up on the addition of acids. The casts of dijjhtheria generally consist of comparatively small pieces of membrane, in which the Loeffier bacillus can be demonstrated. Casts of the smaller bronchi can often be detected in croupous pneimionia if the sputum be floated out in water; they are seldom of importance clinically. (5) Crystals. — Charcot-Leyden crystals are colourless, sharp-pointed octahedra of uncertain chemical composition. They are insoluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform, but dissolve in acids and alkalies. They occur (often only after the sputum has been allowed to stand for a time) in asthma and other conditions, frequently along with spirals and eosinophile cells. Needle-like crystals of the fatty acids, some- times arranged in rosettes, are common in sputa which stagnate in the bronchi. They are in- soluble in acids and all^alies, but dissolve in alcohol and ether. Hcematoidin crystals may occur either in the cells or ground substance of the sputum. In the former case they are usually scanty, and (according to von Jaksch) point to previous rupture of a pulmonai'y vessel. If abundant they are suggestive of a pulmonary abscess or empyema. Among rarer crystals, cholesterin, leucin and tyrosin (occurring in bronchiectasis or pulmonary abscess), oxalates, and triple pihos- phates may be mentioned. Calcareous concre- tions from old tTiberculous deposits may also occur. (6) Tumour Growth. — In cases of intra- thoracic tumour portions of the growth may, though rarely, be found in the sj^utum. (7) Foreign bodies of various kinds may be expectorated. (8) Vef/etahle Parasites. — A. Pathogenic. Tubercle Bacillus—Method of examination.— The suspected sputum is spread out in a flat dish—preferably black—and a thick, purulent portion is sought for. When the expectoration consists entirely of mucus, the detection of the organism becomes more difficult, but should still be attempted. A piece of the selected portion of sputum about the size of a pin's head is then removed with a fine pair of forceps, and placed on a clean cover-glass, over which another is placed, and the two squeezed together so as to spread the sputum in a thin layer. The cover-glasses are tlien separated by sliding apart, and the