101 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN and tlie cartilages of the trachea a week or two later. Through an increase in the num))er and size of their lobes the lungs become much more than simple buds. A pulmonary artery can be traced to each of them. To return, now, to the description of the ali- mentary system, it may be observed tliat during the fifth week the noteworthy flexure of the intestine below the level of the stomach is established. In this way is foi'med a U-shaped loop, with its closed end projecting towards the ventral body-wall; the dorsal mesentery at this point lengthens in order to permit of this forma- tion. The vitelline duet or yolk-stalk is attached to the apex of the U-shaped loop, and may re- main permanently as Meckel's diverticulum ; the vitelline artery (superior mesenteric) supplies the loop. At a point on the lower border of the liKip the intestine suddenly becomes larger ; this indicates the caput ctecum or commencement of the large intestine. All the bowel above this poiirt forms the small intestine, and thus it comes about that Meckel's diverticulum, when present, is attached to the ileum above the level of the ileo-cfecal valve. At first the U-shaped loop is extra-abdominal in j^osition, being situ- ated in a cavity formed by the somatopleure at the umbilicus; as a rule, it passes within the abdomen by the end of the second month. The angle between the U-shaped loop and the hind- gut becomes tlie splenic flexure, although as yet, of course, there is no trace of the mdaf/e of the spleen. The hind-gut is supplied with a dorsal mesentery by which it is suspended. The inner surface of the intestine is as yet quite smooth, folds not making their appearance till the next week. It has been stated that towards the end of the fifth week the mucous membrane of the duodenum increases so much in thickness that the lumen is narrowed and finally obliterated, to reappear again at the beginning of the sixth week (Tandler). The pancreas lies between the layers of the dorsal meso-gastrium at this age, and is parallel to the greater curvature of the stomach. The part of the dorsal meso-gastrium which lies between the pancreas and the stomach becomes at a later date much elongated, to form the great omentum. The liver develops rapidly during this week, increasing greatly in size, and causing the anterior abdominal wall to project, as may be well seen in Mall's reconstructed embryo No. ix. {.Johns Jlopkins ffosp. Bull., ix. p. 199, 1898). The gall-bladder is quite re- cognisable in this embryo. During this week (the fifth) the end-gut {pars ultima of Berry Hart) is in course of disappearance. The ento- dermal cloaca {pars penult/ina) is now divided into an interior and a posterior division, the former forming the bladder and urinogenital sinus, and the latter the rectum. In the sixth week both the bowel and urinogenital sinus communicate v;itli a large space, the cloaca, best known as the ectodermal cloaca. It may be conjectured, for we do not know with certainty, that this cloaca has been formed during the fifth week by the breaking down of an ecto- dermic pyramidal plug with its' apex towards the lower part of the urinogenital sinus meeting the coronal partition of the primitive gut (Berry Hart, loc. cit.). Apparently the communication of the cloaca with the exterior thus established becomes shut off again between the seventh and eighth weeks bj^ Reichel's anal tuberosities {Analhiicker). The urinogenital organs have advanced con- siderably in their ontogeny since the fourth week. The mesonephros or Wolffian body is still well developed and large. It extends as a ridge on each side of the spine from the pos- terior cervical region to the pelvis. To its inner side lies the geiiital ridge, and it is pos- sible, according to Nagel {Arch. f. mikrosk. Anaf., xxxiv. 269, 1889), even at this age (fifth week) to determine by microscopical examination whether the genital gland is male or female ; if it is to be an ovary the large germinal cells (primitive ova) are numerous, and the germinal or coelomic epithelium forms a thick layer of several rows of cells, while if it is to be a testicle the large germinal cells are fewer, and the cells of the epithelium are arranged in groups rather than in a distinct band or layer. The con- voluted tubules and glomeruli of the Wolffian bodies open into the Wolffian ducts, and these in their turn open into the entodermal cloaca. As has been already jjointed out, the ureter is present at the end of the fourth week as a small bud attached to the Wolflian duct just altove its opening into the cloaca; in the fifth week this bud develops a stalk and becomes the per- manent kidney and duct (ureter) which lie in the lumbar region behind both the Wolffian body and the peritoneum. The permanent kidney or metanephros, then, is develojjed from this outgrowth from the Wolffian duct; at the same time it is believed that it obtains part of its structure from a condensation of the mesen- chyma which surrounds it, to which the name of metanephric blastema has been given. Pos- sibly the blastema only contributes the connec- tive tissue and vessels of the kidney. About the end of the fifth week, or perhaps in the sixth week (the time is not known with cer- tainty), the Miillerian ducts appear as peritoneal evaginations in the I'idge or folds that lie on the ventral surface of the Wolffian bodies. The Mtillerian ducts come to open into the urino- genital canal posteriorly, while anteriorly they have a free comnnniication with the peritoneal cavity. A trace of the external genitals is visible during the fifth week in the shape of the genital tubercle, a small eminence on the ventral wall of the urinogenital sinus. At this time, also, the suprarenal capsules or bodies are quite recognisable, and each is found near the cephalic end of the mesonephros or Wolffian body of the same side. Their relation to the kidney is a