FUEUNCULUS ORIENTALIS 370 The symptoms of this affection are first itch- ing, followed by the appearance of a reddish spot, which usually surrounds a hair follicle. A papule I'esults, which gradually enlarges until a more or less appreciable tubercle, of a shotty feel, results. This in a few days softens, breaks down, and an ulcer is developed, which ulcer gradually spreads until an area of some two or three inches in diameter may result in severe cases. It is far more usually limited to an ulcer of perhaps an inch in diametei'. The ulceration spreads by erosion ; the margins are perpendicular, ragged, and surrounded by an areola. The surface of the ulcer discharges a sero-purulent matter, which forms scabs, as a rule covering the entire lesion. The onset of the disease is accompanied by more or less con- stitutional disturbance, malaise and fever being usually present and sometimes severe. The duration of the affection varies ; sometimes the ulcer is small and heals rapidly, but it may last for a year. The duration is not much in- fluenced by treatment in the present state of our knowledge. With regard to treatment, great cleanliness is necessary to avoid auto-infection. The consti- tutional condition must be carefully inquired into, and tonics, such as iron, quinine, arsenic, and the mineral acids, are indicated. Change of air is very beneficial. In severe cases the patients should be sent either home or to some local sanatorium. The sufferers should be well supplied with nourishing food ; stimulants may be required, and the bowels should be carefiilly regulated. Local treatment must depend upon circumstances. If the case is seen early. Dr. Fleming's treatment of applying strong mineral acid or jDotassa fusa to the pimple several times, so as to thoroughly destroy it and turn it into an ulcer, may be recommended, the ulcer being treated on general principles subsequently, but not irritated. Native practitioners often use the actual cautery in the early stage, and the writer has found this useful, as also Volkmann's spoon. If the sores are small in extent they may be covered by iodoform collodion. If the pain is severe, as it sometimes is, belladonna ointment is indicated, or a compress of a 10 per cent solution of chloral hydrate in glycerine and water. It is well to remember that after heal- ing these boils frequently leave a scar, which, if on the face, may be unsightly. Patients should be warned of this; sometimes a scar may take the form of a brown mark; hence the name "date mark" given in some regions to the affection. FuSCin. See Pigments of the Body and Excreta (Melanins). Gclda.r£l. See Balneology (Palestine, Thermal Waters). Gadflies. See Myiasis {Insect Stings and Jiites); Stinging Insects {Gnats, etc.). GadiC Acid.—A fatty acid (C2SH53O4), contained in cod-liver oil. See Cod-Liver Oil. Gaduoi.—A preparation said to be an extract of cod-liver oil, and recommended in the bronchitis of children, etc. Gag^. See Palate {Cleft Palate, Operation, Instruments). Gait. See Alcoholism {Intoxication); Brain, Inflammations {Acute Encephalitis, Clini- cal Features); Brain, Cerebellum {Ilcemorrhage, Reeling Gait); Chorea {Symptmns, Gait) ; De- formities {Coxa Vara, Sym2)toms); Muscles, Diseases op {Pseudohypertrophic Paralysis, Symptoms); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Sym2}toms, Gait); Osteomalacia ; Paralysis {Spastic Paralysis, Clinical Aspect); Paralysis {Paralysis Agitans); Senile In- sanity {Old Age, Gait in); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Disturhance of Gait). Gaiacta^OgfUe.—A medicine increas- ing or stimulating the flow of milk, e.g. jabo- randi. For nursing women, milk is itself the best galactogogue. GaiactOCele. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Cysts, Milk-Cyst); Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of the Mamma, Galacto- cele). Galactorrhcea. — Persistent secretion of milk; sometimes used as synonymous with polygalactia,. Galactose.—A carbohydrate {C^Yi^.fi^^ formed from lactose (milk-sugar) by boiling with a dilute acid, glucose being formed at the same' time. See Liver, Physiology op {Regulation of Sup)ply of Sugar to the Body); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates, Galactose). Gal ban um.—A gum resin, obtained from- one of the Umbelliferfe {Ferula Gallanijiua), with an aromatic odour and a bitter taste, and containing a volatile oil, a resin, a gum, and umbelliferone; there is no official Emplastrum in the British Pharmacopoeia, although there i& one in that of the United States; internally the- medicine is given in doses of from 5 to 15 grains, or as the official Pilula Galbani Composita (dose, 4 to 8 grains), which contains also asafetida; it is now little used. Galea.—A headache; also, a bandage for the head ; also, the caul. Gaieanth ropy.—That form of insanity in which the patient believes himself to have been transformed into a cat.