FALLOPIAN TUBES 249 whether blood derived from an unobstructed uterus often escapes through the tubes into the peritoneum, but some pathological preparations appear to prove that such an accident is possible (VV. S. A. Griffith, author). Pozzi, at an operation, observed " salpingorrhagia." By " hjcmatosalpinx" bleeding into an oIj- structed tube, independent of ectopic gestation, is understood. The causes are — gynatresiaB, torsion of an obstructed tube, lucmorrhage into a hydrosalpinx or pyosalpinx, and htemorrhage from a cancer of the tube. The ha?matosalpinx associated with htemato- metra is a very definite and exceedingly grave condition. It almost always, if not always, implies that the atresia is acquired and not due to congenital malformation (Kleinhans), and the blood in the tubes is full of septic germs, at least when first shed. The consequent danger is well known. Torsion of the tube in association with a tumour or inflammation is liable to cause htemorrhage into the tubal walls, but much blood may also escape into the canal, and as that is obstructed a hscmatosalpinx develops. A "blood tube" of this class has been observed when the opposite tube was the seat of ectopic pregnancy. Hajmorrhage sometimes occurs in the cavity of a hydrosalpinx. This may be termed " luematosalpinx " proper, or " sacrosalpinx luemorrhagica," though Martin, who coined the term, applies it to nearly every form of hajmato- salpinx. The source of the blood has been much disputed. Some authorities think that hyper- 8emia of the mucosa, or straining, or local injury, sufficiently accounts for it. Others trace it to a physiological tubal menstruation; if so, they still fail to explain why hfematosalpinx proper is so rare, whilst hydrosalpinx, guiltless of a drop of blood, is so frequent. Others believe the blood is derived from the uterus—the " reflex " theory still accepted by Olshausen, Sanger, and other living authorities. Altogether the first theory seems most in accordance with the ex- perience of operators. Bleeding may certainly occur into a pyosalpinx. LTnusually free bleed- ing of a ruptured Graafian follicle into the ostium of the tube is I'are. In a case of cancer of the tube described by the author, the growth had bled freely into the cavity of tube, which contained large clots. Hiematosalpinx remains, on the whole, an obscure subject deserving further precise study. Wintemitz has recently written a good treatise on pelvic ha^matocele, where this question of haemorrhage from the tube, independent of ectopic gestation, is duly considered. Tuho-ovarian Cyst.—This term is meant to signify a cyst of the ovary communicating with a hydi'osalpinx. It has fascinated many workers. In the autlior's opinion the greater number of cysts so called are not ovarian at all. This class of cyst may conveniently be divided into (1) pseudo-tubo-ovarian cysts, the commonest kind ; (2) inflammatory tubo-ovarian cysts; and (3) Bland-Sutton's teratological tubo-ovarian cysts or ovarian hydrocele. Pseado-tubo-ovarian Cysts.—In many museums fine preparations of " tubo-ovarian cyst " may be seen. The tube seems to open into a big cavity bent underneath it at a very acute angle. Fimbrife appear to expand around the orifice of the tube and to float in the cavity of the cyst. The wall of the cyst bears on its inner side, towards the uterus, more or less ovarian tissue connected with the uterus by the ovarian ligament. Careful inspection of a series of such specimens shows, however, that the ovary is not cystic at all. The cyst is a large hydrosalpinx. The outer half has become sharply bent under the uterine half of the tube, and greatly dis- tended, so that its plicEe are effaced, though traces of them may often be detected on careful inspection. The plicfe of the uterine half, which is less distended, project around the orifice communicating with the dilated poi'tion, assum- ing the appearance of fimbriae as they float in the fluid contents. These " fimbrife," however, can sometimes be tracked along the inner wall of the dilated portion, where they are flattened by pressure, especially if the cystic tube be laid freely open, so as to remove the pressure which stretches out the mucosa. The ovary is not really part of the cyst, but has become adherent to it, and then flattened out between it and the uterus. (2) Inflammatory Tuho-ovarian Cysts.— In chronic inflammation of the tube and ovary cystic degeneration of the latter is frequent, the cysts being probably dilated follicles which cannot burst externally. Hydrosalpinx and pyosalpinx being exceedingly common uiader the circumstances, it is not surprising that the cystic tube may communicate with the cystic ovary. The mesosalpinx is always opened up when a cystic tube is large, so that a tube lies in the closest contact with the ovary. Gottschalk has described a case where the ovary was converted into a unilocular cyst, whilst the fimbrife of an elongated and dilated tube opened into the cavity of that cyst. It is possible that this case should be placed under the pseudo-tubo-ovarian cysts above described. In bad cases of pyosalpinx the suppui'ating tube sometimes communicates with a suppurating cystic cavity in the ovary. The infection may be simultaneous, derived from intestine or elsewhere, or the tube may have suyjpurated first; that is to say, a pyosalpinx may burst into the cyst in the ovary. But these cases are veiy rare, so that it is diflicult to draw- safe conclusions about infection, and we nnist distrust second-hand reports, so easy is it to mistake a dilated tube for a tvibo-ovarian cjat. Hydrosalpin-v communicatin;/ tenth a true ovarian cystic tumour should come under tiie