487 GOUT renal disease i.s frequently arrived at without much difficulty, in other cases this is not so, and it may be impossible to affirm that the kidneys are not diseased. Gouty kidneys may show a few marked deposits of urate of soda both in the cortex and medulla, the deposit being situated in the intertubular connective tissue, and only occasionally in the tubules. Typically gouty deposits are also occasionally met with in the heart (once), arteries, and veins, and in other situations ; but as these are rare, and the associated cardio-vascular diseases are very common, no great stress can be laid on their occurrence. In the course of the disease niuuerous other morbid changes affecting different structures and organs are met with, but as they are referred to under chronic gout they do not call for detailed reference. Gout in Lower Animals.—It is obvious that if positive results could be obtained in the pro- duction of gout in lower animals, very valuable information might be gained from them regard- ing the etiology and treatment of the disease. So far, however, observations on these lines have been too limited to be of much practical value. The investigations of Zalesky and others, which were originally undertaken about the year 1850 with the view of elucidating the part played by the kidney in the formation of uric acid, gave results which agreed in demonstrating the presence of deposits of lu'ic acid salts in various organs and tissues. In 1882 Ebstein carried out an elaborate series of experiments, the results of which led him to formulate the theory associated with his name, viz. that necrotic changes in the tissues are the primary cause of gout, the necrosis being due to the presence of dissolved urates in the fluids of the body. One set of experiments consisted in the ligature of the ureters of cocks ; a second series comprised the subcutaneous injections of small doses of neutral potassium chromate. By the first means he prevented the elimination of the urates, and so led to their being dammed back and retained in the tissues ; the potassium chromate was regarded by him as exercising a damaging influence on the renal epithelium, in virtue of which its excretory activity was impaired, with the result that a similar although less acute retention of urates occurred. The fowls died within twenty-four hours after the ligature of the ureters, but lived for a few weeks after chromate administration. Post-mortem examinations in both instances re- vealed the presence of uratic deposits in the articulations, tendon sheaths, liver, muscular tissues, and serous membranes, these changes being much more pronounced in the chromate experiments. Ebstein, howevei', considered that the differences were those of degree only, and corresponded to the different lengths of time the animals survived. It has been urged against these experiments that, as uratic deposits were prominent in the liver, muscular tissues, and serous membranes, localities which are not similarly affected in human gout, the two pi'o- cesses cannot be regarded as wholly comparable. While the possible validity of this objection must be recognised, we must also admit the possibility that the conditions found by Ebstein are really analogous to human gout, the difference being only one of degree. In 1888 Mendelson published an interesting- paper on guanin gout in the hog and its relations to the sodium urate gout of man. This subject had been primarily referred to by Vircliow and Eoloff, but the observations of these observers were not elaborated. Mendelson found numerous small discrete, chalky-looking masses of guanin in the periosteum of bones, and on the surface of the junction between the epiphyses and the shafts. Similar deposits were abundant in the ligaments and peri-articular tissues generally, and also scattered indiscriminately in the carti- lage covering the ends of the boires and semi- lunar cartilages. The muscles showed like deposits, especially in the intermuscular septa. In no instance were any signs of inflammatory reaction about the site of deposit discovered, which circumstance, considered along with the absence of structural change in the tissues immediately aroimd the areas of crystallisation, led Mendelson to conclude that there was a very gradual accumidation of the deposit, allowing the tissues to adapt themselves to its presence. This observation led him to the belief, in opposi- tion to Ebstein's view, that the deposit was primary and the necrosis a secondary develojj- ment. This guanin gout is an exceedingly rare condition. It may be identified as follows :— Evaporated upon platinimi foil with a drop or two of strong nitric acid, a slimy, yellowish red residue remains, which, if touched when cold with a drop of sodium or ammonium hydroxide solution, becomes of a deep reddish brown colour, changing to dark purple on heating (Hoppe - Seyler). This test is quite distinct from the murexide reaction of uric acid. I am informed by large importers that American hams sometimes show the presence of minute specks suggestive of the descrij^tion given by Mendelson, but so far I have not been able to discover any specimens. The latest recorded experiments by Kossa and Kionka have been more dietetic in nature. Kossa in 1899 fed birds on cane sugar and dextrose, and succeeded in inducing so-called avian gout. This consisted in the appearance of crystals of sodium urate in the looped tubules of the kidney, followed sooner or later by renal inflammation. There also developed in the tissues a condition similar to that described by Ebstein in his chromate experiments. He also found a marked increase in the nitrogenous metabolic products, and a point of some interest therapeutically was determined by him, viz. that