528 GUAIACI RESINA GuaiaCB Resina.—Obtained from the stem of Guaiacum officinale or Guaiaciim sanctum. It occurs in large masses of a greenish brown colour and a balsamic odour. It contains three resins—Guaiaeonic acid, Guaiac acid, and Guaiaretic acid. It is soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. Dose—5-15 grs. Preparations —1. Mistura guaiaci. Dose—^-1 3. 2. Tinc- tura guaiaci ammoniata. Dose—1-1 3- 3. Trochiscus guaiaci resinse. 3 grs. in each. Guaiac is contained in Pilula hydrargyri sub- chloridi composita. Guaiac resin is very disagreeable to take, and its therapeutic value being somewhat doubtful, it is now not very often prescribed. It is still, however, a favourite with some in chronic rheumatism and lumbago. It has a slight purgative action, and is commonly given to gouty patients along with some other laxative in the form of a pill. The "Chelsea Pensioner" contains guaiac, sulphur, magnesium carbonate, ginger, and treacle. Guaiac has a beneficial action in some forms of chronic sore throat. GuaiaCOl.—Guaiacol, in its impure form, is a colourless liquid obtained by the distillation of guaiac resin or beech creosote ; pure guaiacol is a monomethyl ether of pyrocatechin (C^HgO.,), and is a crystalline substance; the dose of the former is 1 to 5 m. (in capsules, diluted with oil), and that of the latter is 1 to 5 grains (in cachets); it is an antiseptic, and has been widely employed in the treatment of pulmonary consumption ; it is not official. Guaiacum Test. See Medicine, For- ensic {Examination for Blood Stains, Guaiacwni Test) ; HiEMATURIA. Guaiamar.—An antiseptic, used some- times in pulmonary consumption ; it. is guaiacol- glycerylether (CjqH^^O^) ; the dose is 5 to 20 grains. GuaiaciUin.—Guaiaquin is quinine guaia- col bisulphonate (CgH^OjCHgHSOj- C2gH24N202). It is believed to combine the pharmacological actions of guaiacol (antiseptic) and of quinine (antiperiodic). It has been used in doses of 1 to 5 grains in enteritis. Guanidin. — An extractive substance (CN3H5) nearly allied to urea. See Phtsiology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry of). Guanin. — Guanin, or imidoxanthin (C5H5N5O), or amino-oxypurin, is found in guano, and sometimes in the human body (liver, spleen, etc.). See Gout {Gout in Lower Animals); Liver, Physiology of. Guarana.—Guarana or Brazilian cocoa consists of the seeds of Paullinia cupana, powdered and made into a paste; it contains guaranine or cafteine (CgHioN^O^-H2O); the dose of guarana is 20 to 60 grains, and of the Elixir GuarancB, J to 2 fl. dr. It is used chiefly in cases of megrim headache; it is not official. GubemacuIum Testis. &eScROTUM AND Testicle, Diseases of {Diseases of Testicle and Cord, Development of Testicle). Guerin, Valve of. See Urethra, Diseases of {Anatomy of Male Urethra). Guillotine.—An instrument for the rapid removal of prominent parts, such as enlarged tonsils. See Tonsils, Diseases op {Hypertrophy, Treatment). Guinea Worm. See Filariasis {Filaria Medinensis). Gull's Disease.—Myxoedema as it is met with in adults. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxoedema). Gully Trap. See Sewage and Drainage {Traps). Gum Acacia.—Acaciae gummi is ob- tained from various species of acacia, plants belonging to the Leguminosa'. It has the form of colourless round or ovoid tears; it contains arabin or arabic acid (C^HigOg), and is often mixed with such impurities as starch and gum- resins. The Mucilago Acacioi is given in doses of 1 to 4 fl. dr., and the gum itself is contained in all the trochisci and in some pills ; it acts as a demulcent, and is used, in prescribing, for the making of emulsions. See also Demulcents. Gumboil. See Teeth {Diseases of Peri- dental Membrane). Gumma. See Syphilis {General Patho- logy, Tertiary Syphilis, etc.); Bone, Diseases ov {Syphilitic); Choroid, Diseases of {Gummay.; Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Syphilis); Joints, Diseases op {Syphilitic, Gummata); Knee- JoiNT, Diseases op {Tuberculous Disease, Dia- gnosis) ; Liver, Diseases of {Syphilis, Tertiary); Lungs, Syphilis of; Mediastinum {Tumours, Gummata); Muscles, Diseases ob' the {In- flammatory, Syphilitic, Gummata); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis). Gummi IndiCUm.—A preparation closely resembling gum acacia; it is an exuda- tion from the wood of Anogcissus latifolia; it is oHicial in the Colonies and India; and the only preparation is the Mucilago Gummi Indici. See Gum Acacia ; Demulcents.