EPILEPSY 159 fits. Here the patient lies in semi-conscious state, requiring to be fed and nursed. In a few days he begins to show response to external conditions, becoming in some cases subject to temporary delusional insanity, but usually re- turning to the original mental condition. An intermediate form of mental alierration, more easily dealt with and either replacing or following epileptic attacks, is found in temporary delusional insanity, sometimes accompanied by morbid eroticism, or by impulsiveness, or a con- dition in which " the patient is difficult to manage." Pa'1'hology.—Epilepsy may be fairly stated to be a disease without a morbid anatomy. Various statements are found in the text-books as to the pathological conditions described in cases which have died from this affection. But no constant pathological lesion has been detected. Some of those alleged to be the causal agent, such as thickening of the bones of the skull, sclerosis of the cornu amnionis, and depressed spiculse of bone, are coincidental circumstances. Others, such as engorgement of the cerebral sinuses, and minute hremorrhagic extravasations and ecchymoses, are found in many other affec- tions, and arise directly from the method of death, chiefly in coma. In epileptic insanity, as described by lievan Lewis, a fatty alteration in the nuclei of the cells of the second cortical layer, accompanied by cell vacuolation and disintegration, has been found ; but it is scarcely to be supposed that such a condition forms the foundation of ordi- nary cases of epilepsy, as any prolonged vascular occlusion will bring about degeneration of the neuron. The facts of experimental physiology clearly point to the cortex of the cerebrum as tlie region from which discharge of nervous energy takes place ; but what is the nature and cause of the periodical iiyper-excitability which leads to an epileptic fit is entirely of a speculative character. That the clinical phenomena which usher in one attack indicate the locality from which the dis- charge originates is now a well - established doctrine. From tliis spot the discharge spreads, so that in a severe epileptic seizure the whole musculature of the body is eventually thrown into convulsions. Hence it may be concluded that in cases without convulsion, or in those in which sudden loss of consciousness is the first symptom, that part of the cerebral cortex which is related to the mental processes is primarily involved. If beginning witii a definite move- ment of a limb, the origin is in the cortical motor zone in which the extremity is represented, in cases with a special sense-aura it is generally held that the discharge begins in the cortical area mider consideration, as direct evidence has been obtained from the few cases submitted to pathological examination, in which a tumour implicating the areas subserving taste and smell gave rise to convulsions preceded by " aune " of those special senses. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of epilepsy is in many cases simple, in others the difficulty is great, more especially if the attack is being- described rather than observed. An affirmative answer to one of the three following questions would usually characterise the "fit" as epileptic. During the attack— (1) Did the patient fall down suddenly un- conscious 1 (2) Was the tongue bitten? (3) Was urine passed involuntarily'? But a negative reply to these questions does not deny the possibility of epilepsy. None of these features are found in the variety known as le petit mal, or in the so-called epileptic auto- matism. For the diagnosis of these reliance should be placed upon a consideration of all the facts of the case, and chiefly upon automatic- acts, these being absolutely diagnostic of epi- lepsy ; but it is often difficult to differentiate between le petit mal and a " faint " of syncopal nature. The chief diagnostic point lies in the suddenness both of the onset of, and recovery from, iniconsciousness in " faints" of epileptic nature. A fit occurring during sleep is invari- ably epileptic. Even bearing these points in mind, it is not always easy to diflbrentiate fits which are epi- leptic from those of hysterical natui-e. What appears to be a definite hysterical seizure may have an epileptic commencement, in this way the diagnosis may be difficult, as the epileptic phenomena may be brief and largely obscured by the hysterical. On this account the presence of an aura should be ascertained, and the exact mode of commencement of a convulsive seizure. Moreover, the existence of hysteria following upon an epileptic attack is not confined to the female sex, many male epileptics showing post- epileptic hystei'ical symptoms. The following- features may be stated to be characteristic of an hysterical attack in contradistinction to epilepsy :— 1. Tongue - biting never occui's, but other parts of the body may be bitten as well as onlookers; involuntary micturition is unknown. 2. General struggling, throwing about of the body, kicking, fighting, etc., instead of the regular tonic, followed by clonic convulsion, of the epileptic. 3. The dui'ation of the hysterical seizure may extend from a few minutes to a much longer time: the epileptic fit never exceeds a few minutes. 4. The epileptic fit terminates in deep sleep, the hysterical seizure at most in a dazed con- dition. Reference has previously been made to the difficulty of distinguishing le petit mal with slight convulsion from fits due to organic brain