299 FISH Fish. See Diet (^Animal Foods, Fish); Food (Fish) : Heart, Physiology of (Com- parative Anatomy, Circulation in Fishes); In- valid Feeding (Fish); Snake - Bites and Poisonous Fishes; Toxicology (Food Stuffs, Fish). Fisher's Brain iVIurmur.—A sys- tolic uiuriuur lieanl uvur the iinti'rior fontanelle or temporal region in cases of rickets (cranio- tabes). Fissure. See Brain, Surgery of (T0200- graphy of Fissures of Rolando, Sylvius, etc.); Cheek, Fissure op ; Mammary Gland, Diseases OF (Affections of the Nipple and Areola) ; Puer- PERiuM, Pathology (Affections of the Areola) ; Rectum, Diseases of (Piles, Ojwrations, After- Treatment, Fissure); Teratology. Fistula.. See Abdominal Abscess (Abscess in Abdominal Wall, Faecal Fistula); Cautery (Bright Red Heat, for Fistulous Openings) ; Colotomy (Indications, Strictures with Fistula;); Ear, External, Diseases of (Malformations of Auricle, Fistula Anris Congenita) ; Eck's Fis- tula ; Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of (Ulcer-ation and its Sequelce, Fistula); Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of (Obstruction, Treatment, Fistula after Ojjeration); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Renal Fistula); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Vaginal and Vesica - Vaginal Fistula; from prolonged Pressure); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Alimentary System, Fistula in Ano); Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis (Chronic, Complications, Facal Fistulce); Pleura, Affections, Surgical (Empyema, Broncho - 2^leural Fistula); Prostate Gland (Inflammation, Urinary Fistula); Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of 2Iamma, Fistula;); Rectum, Diseases of (Fistula in Ano, Hcemor- rhoids. Complications); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Scrotal Fistulce); Thiry's Fistula: Umbilicus, Diseases op {Fistuhe, Fm-al, Uri- nary, Biliary); Uraciius (Fistula^). Fitero. See Balneology (Sj>ain). Fits. See Convulsions ; Eclampsia ; Epi- lepsy ; Malingering ; etc. Fitz-James, Colony.—Au institution for the treatment of the insane, about 36 miles from Paris (near Clermont), in which a great ■degree of freedom is allowed (no enclosing walls, etc.). Fixation.—The operation of attaching floating or displaced organs by means of sutiu-es, as in Nephrorrhaphy, Hysteropexy (Vaginal and Ventral), etc. ; the term is also applied to the preparation of tissues for microscopical exami- nation. Fixed Oils.—The official fixed oils are almond, croton, linseed, cod-liver, castor, and olive oil; they are salts formed from the higher fatty acids (e.g. oleic and palmitic) and the base glyceryl (CgH^); saponification is the formation of soaps and glycerine by the action on fixed oils of caustic alkalies or metallic oxides; the name " fixed" is given to them because their distillation involves decomposition. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; and under the various drugs (Amygdala ; Croton Oil ; etc.). Flap. See Amputations ; etc. Flat Foot. See Deformities (Flat Foot). Flat Pelvis. See Labour, Prolonged (Labour with Flat Pelvis). Flatulence. See Abdomen, Injuries of (Operation, After - Treatment); Abdominal Aneurysm (Pressure Symptoms); Angina Pec- toris (Etiology, Distension of Stomach); Gastro- intestinal Disorders op Infancy (Disorders of Digestion, Flatxdence and Colic); Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium (Symptomatology, Stomach Symjjtoms); Indigestion (Varieties, Flatulent); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (General Symptomatology, Flatulence); Ver- tigo (Causes). Flatus. See Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Laceration of Perineum, Results, Incontinence of Flatus). Flax. See Trades, Dangerous (Flax and Linen). Flaxseed. See Linum, Linseed. Flea Bites. See Pet echle (Diagnosis). Fleabane.—The oil of Erigeron; it is a yellowish volatile oil, with a taste resembling that of turpentine, obtained from the flowering herb Erigeron canadense. It is given in doses of from 10 to 30 m., in capsule, in cases of moderate hicraorrhage from the nose, uterus, etc. It has also been recommended, in com- bination with other drugs, in the later stages of gonorrha>a. Fleckfieber. See Typhus Fever. Flesh. See Cutis Axserina (Goose Flesh): Diet (Animal Foods) ; Food (Meat); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion (Flesh); Invalid Feeding ; etc. Flexibilitas Cerea. — The semi rigidity or wax-like flexibility of the muscles in catalepsy. See Catalepsy (Symptoms) ; Hyp- notism (Ejcperiniental Phenomena).