EYEBALL, INJURIES OF 208 1. Injuries by contusion without penetration of the globe. 2. Injuries from penetration without reten- tion of a foreign body. 3. Injuries by penetration with retention of a foreign body. 4. Injuries by strong light, heat, or chemical agents. One's first duty when consulted by a patient who has sustained any injury of the eye is to ascertain by questioning the manner of its occurrence, and especially by examination the exact nature and extent of the damage done, so that we may be in a position to adopt prompt and effective treatment. The patient is seated facing a good window light, and the surgeon, placing himself opposite, gently separates the eyelids and exposes the cornea and surrounding sclerotic. If any diifi- culty is experienced, as sometimes happens with very sensitive persons, a few drojjs of a 4 per cent solution of cocaine may be first dropped between the lids. In the case of infants and young children it is best to hold the head firmly between the knees, the nurse restraining the legs and arms of the child, which is laid on her lap. The eyelids are now separated by the use of retractors, which are preferable to the fingers with struggling children. It is very seldom necessary to use a general anaesthetic when our object is merely to inspect the eye. In the examination and treatment of all penetrating injuries of the eye the strictest surgical cleanliness must be adhered to, as septic infection may lead to destruction of the eye, and even to loss of the fellow-eye from sympathetic inflammation. The eye must be well flushed with a 1 in 5000 solution of per- chloride of mercury, and on the conclusion of the examination covered with a pad of lint wrung out of the solution. All instruments, as forceps, scissors, speculum, etc., are to be boiled for a few minutes, and laid in a 20 per cent solution of carbolic acid till required. By such measures we can be sure that we do not our- selves infect the wound, but in many cases in- fection has already taken place at the time of the accident, and in spite of the free use of antiseptics may give rise to septic inflammation of the deeper parts of the eye. If there be present purulent dacryocystitis, evidenced by escape of pus from the canaliculi on pressure over the tear sac, this miist be treated at once by slitting up the lower punctum and canali- culus, passing a large probe into the nasal fossa, and syringing the naso-lachrymal canal each day with some strong antiseptic, the most effective for this purpose being a 10 per cent solution of the recently-introduced substance called protargol.^ Injuries by Contusion without Penetration ' Obtained from Friedr. Bayer and Company, Elberfeld, Germany. OF THE Globe.—These are produced by light but smart blows on the eye, as from a piece of wood or coal, hard pellet of paper, snowball, small round stone projected from a catapult, cork from a soda-water bottle, etc., which may strike the eyeball directly or through the closed lids. The immediate result of such an accident is to jjroduce slight hyperaemia of the ciliary region with intolerance of light and flow of tears. The pupil soon gets narrowed, and can be dilated by means of atropine only with difiiculty. A case of this degree only requires a few days' rest and the use of atropine to recover completely. Some diminution of tension of the eyeball can often be made out, and sometimes this is so pronounced that the cornea and anterior por- tions of the sclerotic wrinkle on the slightest pressure, and when this is the case the anterior chamber is decidedly shallow. A satisfactory explanation of this phenomenon, which is some- times permanent, has not yet been given. A fine greyish cloudiness of the cornea is frequently present, and careful examination by oblique illumination shows that this is situated on the posterior surface, where it is said to be caused by minute elevations and ruptures of Descemet's membrane. Detachment of some portion of the iris from its ciliary ovigin^irido-dialysis, is a common occur- rence ; it is accompanied by profuse hsemor- rhage, from rupture of the circulus arteriosus major and canal of Schlemm, the blood collect- ing in a layer at the bottom of the anterior chamber, hyphama. Irido-dialysis is recognised by a crescentic black space corresponding to the position of the detached iris, through which the red fundus-reflex, and even the retinal vessels, may be seen by the ophthalmoscope. The pupil presents a straight or even a convex edge instead of a concave at the site of the lesion. The peripheral border of the detached iris has in a few instances become folded over so as to expose the brown uveal surface, a condition called anteversion of the iris. The iris may be detached in two places, but this is extremely rare. In a few instances it has been totally detached, lying free on the floor of the anterior chamber, where it soon becomes of a greyish colour, and shrinks very rapidly. Multiple ruptures of the pupillary edge of the iris are by no means infrequent, and account for the dilatation of the pupil, mydriasis, so often following a blow on the eye. The ruptures appear as small triangular notches in the edge of the iris with their bases directed towards the pupil. They may be seen by focal illumina- tion, but are often best made out by the oph- thalmoscopic mirror appearing as breaks in the circular red reflex. Detachments or ruptures of the iris are permanent conditions. Paralysis of accommodation, cydojdegia, re- cognised by inability to read print close at hand, while the distant sight may be little if at