423 GELATIN Gela.tin. — Collagen, a nou-elastic substance allied to the proteids, when boiled, takes up water to form gelatin, which is soluble in hot water but forms a jelly on cooling; it has a restricted value as a food stuff" (it yields energy during its decomposition into urea), being acted upon by trypsin. The Gelatinum of the Phar- macopoeia is made by boiling skin, tendons, and bones, and is prepared in sheets ; it is used for making suppositories, medicated pessaries, cap- sules, lozenges, and for coating pills. in Bacteriology, it serves as a culture medium. Recently gelatin has been used in the treatment of hfemorrhages of difi'erent kinds (luemoptysis, gastric and intestinal bleeding, h;emopliilia, purpura, etc.) by subcutaneous and intra venous injection, by the mouth or by the rectum ; the gelatin so used must be sterilised (e.g. Merck's fje/atina sterillsata). Gelatinous Deg^eneration. See Joints, Diseases ov (Tuherculom Disease, Patho- logical Anatomy). Gelsemii Radix.—The dried rhizome and roots of " yellow jasmine " — Gehemiww, iiitiduin, imported from Carolina. Dose—5-15 grs. Its constituents are—1. Gelseminine, a powerful alkaloid in the form of minute yellow- ish crystals, sparingly soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol, ether, and dilute acids. Dose—xBTT'TiV Preparations—(1) Gelse- miniiiEe Hydrochloridura, freely soluble in water. Dose—-^js"iis S^"- > (^) Lamellse Gelsemininte, each containing j^^y gr. of Gelseminine. 2. Gelsemine, a much less powerful alkaloid, which must be carefully distinguished from Gelsemin- ine. Dose—i-2 grs. 3. Gelsemic Acid. The only official preparation of Gelsemium is Ti7ic- tura Gelsemii. Dose—5-15 m. On account of its powerful depressant effect on the anterior cornu of the spinal cord and the motor centres at the base of the brain, gelsemium was formerly used in the treatment of chorea, tetanus, acute mania, spasmodic asthma, and conditions accompanied by cerebral excitement. Its action in tliese diseases, however, is very uncertain, and sometimes even dangerous. It is now given almost solely for trigeminal neur- algia, frequently in combination with butyl chloral hydrate. It is apparently of little value in otlier forms of neuralgia. It paralyses acconnnodation, and dilates the pupil, and for this purpose it may be apjjlied locally in the form of the lamella of Gelseminine. Gelsemine and Gelseminine. See Gelsemii Radix. Gemelli Coal it i.—United twins; a double monster. Gemelli parous. — Giving birth to twins ; j)luriparous. Gem mules. — Little buds upon the course of the dendrites of nerve cells which perhaps serve to bring a neuron at one time into relation with one set of neurons, and at another time with another ; formerly, the name was given to the small jjarticles supposed by Darwin to be given off by all the tissues of the body to form the reproductive cell (ovum or spermatozoon), in order to give a physical basis for the theory of heredity. Genal.— Relating to the cheeks. General Paralysis. History 423 Causation— Relationship to Syphilis . . . 425 Relationship to Locomotor Ataxy . 425 Pathology ...... 425 Symptoms— Stadium Prodroviale . . .426 Stadium Acutitm .... 426 Stadium Dementioe .... 429 Diagnosis ...... 429 Forms of the Disease . . . .429 Prognosis ...... 430 Treatment ...... 430 See also Bedsores {Clinical Types); Brain, Tumours op {Sympto^ns, Diagnosis); Brain, Cystic Degeneration; Insanity, Pathology of; M ental Deficiency {Developmental, Juvenile General Paralysis); Nails, Affections of (wi General Diseases) ; Osteo-Arthropathies {in General Paralysis); Paralysis {Paralysis ivith Tremor or Ataxy); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Disorders of JVervous System) ; Pupil {Paradoxical Pupil); Stomach and Duo- denum {Catarrhal Changes in General Paralysis); Syphilis {Hereditary Syphilis in Children); Tabes Dorsalis {Etiology, Diagnosis) ; Ulcers AND Ulceration {Perforating Ulcer); Uncon- sciousness {Comatose A ttacks). Synonyms. — Progressive general paralysis ; Dementia paralytica ; Paretic dementia ; General paresis ; General paralysis of the insane. Paralysie generale des alienes, Folie paralytique (Fr.); Paralyse des Irren ((iler.). Definition.—General paralysis of the insane is a progressive and incurable disease of the nervous system, characterised by bodily symp- toms which end in paralysis, and mental symp- toms which end in dementia, the disease running a fairly definite course of development, and terminating fatally in from two to three years. History.—Willis is accredited with having first drawn attention to this disease as early as 1672. Haslam and Perfect also seem to have recognised it at the close of the last century. Esquirol noted the extreme gravity of those cases in which dementia was complicated with paralysis, but it was reserved for his pupils,