GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 418 " directly the child eats anything it goes throiigh him." Sometimes there is slight colicky pain before the bowels are open, but often this is absent. Nutrition gradually suffers, but not to a very marked degree. There can be little doubt that the condition is really a functional neurosis; the intestine shows undue reflex excitability, so that the taking of food into the stomach im- mediately starts peristalsis of the bowel. Often when the child is brought for medical advice the condition has already lasted several weeks or mouths, but improvement is generally rapid under suitable treatment. Treatment.—A mixture of bromides with bella- donna given an hour before each meal is very effectual. Small doses of Dover's powder may be used similarly. When the frequency of the evacuations has diminished, liquor arsenicalis (n\^j.-iij.) should be substituted, and may use- fully be given with nux vomica. Constipation Both in breast-fed and hand-fed infants con- stipation is a very common trouble, and often extremely difficult to remedy. In breast-fed infants the cause is usually some defect in the mother's milk, particularly deficiency of fat. Sometimes no fault whatever can be found in the milk, and it seems probable that the trouble is due simply to feebleness of peristalsis, either as part of the general weakness of infancy, or as a congenital condition perhaps the result of defective innervation. It is probable also that the sharp kinks which are so often present with the looping of the long sigmoid flexure in in- fancy {vide p. 401) may hinder the progress of the faeces, and the accumulation of faBces in turn aggravates the kink, so that a vicious circle is established which may account for the obstinate constipation which is not infrequent in infants In hand-fed infants, apart from congenital causes, the diet is usually at fault. The mix- tures of milk and water which mothers usually give their babies are very deficient in fat, the patent foods are even more so. Sometimes excess of casein seems to cause constipation, but in such cases there is often some catarrh of the bowel, and attacks of diarrhoea may alternate with constipation. A chronic catarrhal con- dition, such as is common in rickets, is not in- frequently a cause of constipation in hand-fed infants, but the rickety constipation is probably due also in part to muscular weakness. Where the stools are pale and whitish the constipation seems to be due to deficiency of bile. Fissure at the anus is said to cause fear of defecation, and so constipation in some cases. Narrowing at the anus or rectum, as a congenital condition, may cause partial obstruction ; and more acute obstruction from hernia or from intussusception may occur at any age. As a reflex condition constipation is sometimes a prominent and early symptom of cerebral disease, particularly of meningitis. Symptoms.—Infants who are costive are often miserable and fretful, they sleep badly, and occasionally strain and grunt; flatulence and colic also are commonly associated with con- stipation ; the temperature may be slightly raised; and where constipation is habitual, nutrition suffers and growth may be delayed. Infants will sometimes strain violently, and quite exhaust themselves in their efforts to de- fecate, and when the firm faeces are passed they are found to be streaked with blood. As direct results of the straining prolapsus ani and hernia may occur. In two cases under the writer's care piles were present at one month and at eighteen months of age respectively. Treatment.—This must depend on the cause. If the mother's milk be suspected of poorness she should be encouraged to drink milk freely, and to take a liberal diet with plenty of milk food ; it is well if she can take also malt or cod- liver oil. The treatment of the child by drugs given to the mother is usually unsatisfactory, but any of the saline aperients can be used in this way. In hand-fed children the feeding generally requires modification in the direction of additional cream or of diminution—rarely increase—of casein. The addition of a teaspoon- ful of Mellin's food to one or two of the meals, or the use of malt extract instead of sugar for sweetening, or a little manna (gr. x.-xxx.) given in the milk two or three times a day, may be successful. Sometimes fine oatmeal made into a cream and added to the milk for breakfast, or in infants of ten months or more a drink of beef tea, may be sufficiently laxative. To infants of eighteen months or more a little of the juice of stewed prunes may be given, or well-baked apples; sometimes a little treacle given with oatmeal, or a little honey, will keep the bowels regular. Gentle massage along the course of the colon should be done every morning, and it is most important that the infant should be held over a chamber at a fixed time once or twice a day, even if the bowels fail to act, for in infants as in adults " habit is second nature." Drugs may be necessary, but the less they are used the better. Saline aperients, sodium phosphate (gr. x. - xv.), magnesium sulphate (gr. v.-x), or sodium sulphate (gr. ij.-iv.) may be used alone or in combination; sometimes a single dose in the morning is sufficient, some- times they must be given three times a day. Syrupus cascarse aromaticus (ni_v. - x.) with sodium sulphate may be tried, but cascara sometimes gripes, and is very unreliable in its action. Where the constipation seems to be due to weakness, minute doses of nux vomica with compound decoction of aloes may be tried. Sometimes a small dose of grey powder given once or twice a day is effectual. Where the stools are pale or putty-coloured, tincture of