FILARIASIS 279 those of the mosquito, the intermediary host indispensable to the future life of the parasite." Pathogenetic Effects.—The various symp- toms and pathogenetic effects produced by this parasite have been included in most medical works under the name of film-iasis {see Intro- duction). The period of incubation is of ma- determined length. Of eighty-five persons exhibiting blood-filarite, Manson found nine that were to all appearances healthy. The frequency with which the jaarasite is found varies in different places; for instance, it is found in Amoy and Bahia in 10 per cent, in Cochin in 30 per cent (Manson), in the Friendly Islands in 32-24 per cent (Thorpe 1896), and in Samoa in 50 per cent of the population. This probably depends upon the hygienic conditions (water- supply, etc.) under which the natives live, and the prevalence of a suitable mosquito to serve as a host. It has been estimated that the blood of a man may contain forty to fifty million embryos, in spite of which the host in the majority of cases suffers no noticeable eff'ects. In other cases the parasite brings about a vari- cose condition of the lymphatics, producing a variety of conditions known as chyluria, hfema- tochyluria, varicose groin glands, lymph-scrotum, chylocele, orchitis, endemic lymphangitis, certain forms of lymphorrhagia, and cellulitis, and probably endemic elephantiasis Arabum. Chyluria and H^matochyluria occur inter- mittently and usually do not produce any special disturbance in the general health. The urine may be normal in quantity or increased in amount, and presents a milky, pinkish, or bloody appearance. This may vary in the same case during the course of the day. The urine may be normal in the morning, become chylous during the day, or the reverse may be observed. The affection may persist a long time. Osier cites a case of intermittent hcematochyluria lasting eighteen years, the only inconvenience consisting in the occasional passage of hfemo- globin - tinted chyle - clots (these often cause retention) formed in the bladder, and the presence at times of uneasy sensations in the lumbar regions. Accoixliug to Manson a relapse is usually preceded by dragging, aching sensations in the loins, groins, thighs, testes, and about tiie pelvis generally. In women the disease may make its appearance after pregnancy, whilst in man it follows an}' physical exertion, though often no immediate exciting cause can be determined. The patient may pass normal urine during intervals, which last either weeks, months, or years. Where the condition persists, symptoms of anamiia, including great debility and mental depression, are observable. Death may be brought about by secondary bacterial infection giving rise to deep-seated abscesses, etc. In a case described by Mackenzie, the renal and peritoneal lymph-plexuses were much enlarged, extending from the diaphragm to the pelvis, the thoracic duct being occluded above the diaphragm. Chylous urine generally clots quickly on standing, the coagulum as it contracts becoming pinker or redder, the fluid separating into a greasy, cream-like pellicle containing oil- globules and fatty granules, a middle layer composing the greater part of the fluid and con- taining fatty matter, red blood corpuscles, lymph-cells, a suspended coagulum, and, lastly, a slight dark-red sediment made up of the corpuscular elements just mentioned, clots, epithelium, salts, and usually some filarial embryos, these also being present in the clot, where, as also in the deposit, a search for them is usually quickly rewarded. Chylous urine becomes clear on the addition of ether, and on boiling gives an albuminous precipitate. The diagnosis depends upon these characters in the nrine, and the presence of the parasites in urine and blood, etc. Lymph-scrotum, according to Manson, is an affection which " is almost a sure indication of the presence, acti;al or past, of F. nocturna in the lymphatics." In this disease the scrotum is more or less enlarged, thickened, and covered with varicosities or with herpes-like vesicles 2-20 mm. across, the same containing a variable amount of serous, milky, pinkish, or red fluid, which escapes on their being punctured and may continue to drip for hours afterwards. The fluid coagulates on standing, and is seen to contain lymph - cells and blood corpuscles, etc., and generally living filarite, which are usually also present in the blood. The disease, which is often complicated by orchitis, may last for years, inflammation and febrile attacks occurring at intervals, and being followed by lymphous dis- charge or abscess formation. The affection may coexist with chylui'ia, varicose inguinal glands, and may be followed by elephantiasis. Lymphangitis occurs especially in elephan- tiasis, varicose glands, and lymph-scrotum, but is also frequently found in other forms of filarial disease. It may be limited to the abdominal organs, the inguinal glands, the testes, or sper- matic cord. In the limbs it causes painful cord-like swelling about the glands and adjacent lymphatic vessels, the skin and connective tissue of the part becoming tense and inflamed. The attacks are characterised by prolonged and severe rigor, followed by high fever, and accom- panied by headache, anorexia, and at times by delirium and vomiting. The attack may subside after a few days, the tension of the part being relieved by discharge of lymph through the skin. Some thickening of the tissues affected is always noticeable after such an attack, the con- clusion of which is usually ushered in by copious sweating. The attacks of lymphangitis may occur with considerable regularity. For instance, in a case reported by Young (1897), the patient affirmed that the attacks had recurred every three months during the preceding six years.