334 FOOD It has already been pointed out that specifi- cally harmful consequences do not necessarily follow from the ingestion of innutritious flesh. Meat from emaciated and worn-out animals is condemned on the sufficient grounds that it is innutritious, and in consequence has not the qualities which the consumer requires. But in regard to the consumption of flesh which is decomposing, or which is taken from animals which have suffered from inflammatory disease, or certain parasitic. diseases, the consequences are very different, and few medical men have not from time to time had abundance of evidence to show this; moreover, cooking cannot be re- lied on to prevent this mischief. Unsound food is liable to give rise to symptoms of gastro- intestinal disturbance, diarrhoea, vomiting, colic, followed by more serious symptoms of septic poisoning, prostration, pyrexia, and failure of the heart's action; many such cases, some re- sulting fatally, have been recorded. Pies of beef or pork, sausages (alliantiasis) and the like, have also given rise to these conditions. Dr. Ballard (see Reports of the Local Government Board) quotes a number of cases in which mis- chievous or fatal results have followed the in- gestion of animal food; out of fourteen such instances, pig-meat of one kind or another occa- sioned the illness in no less than nine, veal in one, beef in one, the kind of meat not specified in two, tinned salmon in one. An explanation is suggested of this special liability of pig-meat to produce these specific maladies: of all adult flesh meats ordinarily eaten, pork, mider the process of cooking, furnishes the largest propor- tion of gelatin; young meats, such as veal, are also largely productive of gelatin, and gelatin is a favourite nutriment of morbific bacilli. As a result of his investigation. Dr. Ballard considers that " in infected food capable of producing dis- ease on being eaten, we find one or both of two things—a living microscopic organism and an organic chemical poison of greater or less viru- lence. Of these two things, that which is imme- diately operative in the production of the morbid phenomena is the chemical poison which is apparently of a basic nature, and a product of the processes of bacterial life. " Specifically different bacteria, capable of producing this chemical poison, may through its agency give rise in the human system and in animals to clinical phenomena and pathological changes in the organs which are so similar, that at present they cannot be distinguished. " Given the bacterium and favourable environ- ment, the bacterium may grow, multiply, and produce its own special chemical poison from the material which affords its nourishment either outside the body or within it." The presence or absence of an incubation period prior to the manifestation of toxic symp- toms is explained by Dr. Ballard as evidence of the symptoms being due either to the opera- tion within the body of the bacterium itself, or of their being due to the operation of the chemical poison already prepared in the food. Where merely the bacterium is introduced, time is required for its growth and for the forma- tion of its poisonous chemical product; when the chemical poison already prepared outside the body is introduced, its operation is more speedy. Not only is thorough cooking of importance in all cases, but equally so is the observance of absolute cleanliness in every stage of the prep- aration of the food for the table. A case of fish-poisoning occurred in Liverpool during last year. Five persons after eating- cooked salt fish and pig's cheek, purchased from a stall in a low quarter of the city, became seriously ill with the usual symptoms of food poisoning, and four of the five died the day after partaking of the food, the other one the next day but one. The post-mortem appear- ances indicated a rapid and intense infection. The bacillus enteritides sporogenes was found in three of the cases. A considerable number of persons who had fed from the same stall at the same time suffered no ill effects. An ex- tended investigation into fish of the kind, both cooked and uncooked, was made, and in various instances the growths, inoculated into guinea- pigs, produced pathogenic action, several of them producing fatal results typical of the bacillus enteritides sporogenes. The clinical features of such cases are referred to further under " Intestine." It is not necessary to allude further to the possibility of specific infection of, for example, typhoid fever, from contaminated shell-fish, nor the transmission of parasitic disease from infected flesh, to which references have already been made. Foot. See Amputations ; Ankle - Joint,, Region of Injuries ; Deformities {Club Foot, Flat Foot, etc.); Food (^Impure, Foot and Mouth Disease) ; Foot and Mouth Disease ; Milk {Pathological, Foot and Mouth Disease); Tabes DoRSALis (Perforating Ulcer of Foot); etc. Foot and Mouth Disease.—The term foot and mouth disease is applied to an eruptive febrile disorder of a markedly contagious nature which afiects ungulates, ruminants more especially. The eruption is vesicular, and after the vesicle has burst a very hypersemic and sensitive corium is exposed. The disease is known under a variety of names, which express the opinions that have been held from time to time of its nature; such names are epizootic- aphtha, aphthous fever, eczema epizootien,, eczema contagiosa, the vesicular disease, murrain epidemic, etc. It is probable that the disease is. an exotic, because, according to the Annual Report of the Board of Agriculture for 1898, there is no evidence that the disease ever- existed in this country prior to 1839, though the Germans say that foot and mouth disease was, i