ENTEROPTOSIS 123 anterior abdominal wall ; tlie second, " en- teroptosis from inside," exhibiting no visible signs. The o1>jective symptoms in the first form consist in flattening of the abdominal wall over the higher portion, with prominence of the lower. In thin subjects, if the stomach be full of food or gas, its entire outline may be visible, the curve of the lesser curvature showing below the xiphi-sternum, sometimes even reaching midway between this point and the umbilicus. The alternate inflation of the stomach and bowel with air, as Ewald i-ecommends, usually demonstrates clearly the existence of this con- dition. Percussion over Traube's semilunar area yields a dull note whether the stomach be full or empty, while the lower margin of the liver can be seen or felt below its normal level, and the pancreas in some cases recognised as a transverse cord, a cord mistaken by Glenard for the transverse colon, an error, that is, according to Ewald. Splashing sounds can be elicited by more or less forcible percussion below the normal limit, and may be difficult to produce, or be absent, in the epigastric region. The gastric and intestinal movements induced by the action of the diaphragm are less closely associated with it than in health. In cases of pronounced gastroptosis the stomach inv;i.riably is deflected towards the left in addition to its downward displacement. Forcible percussion of the abdominal wall over a displaced stomacli within three or four hours of a meal produces splashing sounds at or below the level of the umbilicus, varying with the extent of the ptosis, and if inducible at a later period after the last meal, suggests dilatation as well as change of position. Auscultation over the anterior abdominal walls while the patient drinks some water may afford evidence of the altered position of the stomach. No correspondence can be traced between the chemical factors found on analysis of the gastric contents and enteroptosis. The contents vary, as in all nervous examples of dyspepsia; in one free hydrochloric acid is absent, in another normal, in a third excessive. Huber found in twenty-eight cases of floating kidney in females accompanied by symptoms of dyspepsia, and closely akin to tliose of enteroptosis, the absence of this acid in a free state in seven (25 per cent), normal in eleven (39'4 per cent), excessive in ten (35-6 per cent). Huber describes the symptoms as closely resembling those of nervous dyspepsia, epigastric pain, more or less dependent upon food, heart- burn, eructations, capricious appetite, constipa- tion, headache, and insonuiia. His cases were chiefly diagnosed as movable kidnc}-, but his description applies also to enteroptosis. It must be borne in mind that the displaced stomach and colon may also be the subjects of various degrees of dilatation,—conditions, indeed, which probably have had something to do with the causation of the altered intra-abdominal arrangement of organs. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the conditions which go to make up the various forms of enteroptosis is easily arrived at, once the nature of the disorder has been grasped and is borne in mind. The connnonly pendulous belly, absence of resonance in Traulie's area, a stomach note below the level of health, associated with diges- tive troubles, and, it may often be, with neuras- thenic manifestations, absence of the right kidney from its appointed place, lowered level of liver dulness, all conspicuously aid the physician. In doubtful cases the use of Einhorn's gastro- diaphanoscope may give one absolute proof; or the determination of the outline of the stomach by percussion alone, auscultatory percussion, or succussion with auscultation both in the erect position and after the patient has been placed in a recumbent posture, with his feet and pelvis raised and his liead and shoulders lowered. Introduction of water in quantity into the stomach or into the co\ou per rectum is of greater service in diagnosis than the inflation of these organs with gas, because the weight of the fluid introduced, the patient meanwhile maintain- ing an erect position, tends to increase the downward displacement, while inflation with gas is I'ather apt to cause expansion laterally and upwai'ds, and thus to obscure more than help elucidation. Enteroptosis and gastroptosis are so inti- mately related to displacements of other abdominal viscera, and, in turn, symptoms of derangement of the stomach and bowel associated with obviously neurotic signs are so often the accompaniments of visceral errors in position, that a thorough physical examination of the abdomen and its integral parts should never be omitted in any case presenting symptoms approaching these characteristics It should be borne in mind that displaced organs may sometimes be detectable, which ai'e by no means guilty of symptoms present and generally associated with them, for displacement does not invariably cause distress; and dilatation and paralysis of the sigmoid flexure, or of parts of the colon, with localised stases of the intestinal contents, may produce very similar results. Prognosis. — The prognosis depends almost entirely upon the patient himself. If he consent to undergo a somewhat exasperating course of treatment in a proper spirit, observe the rules as to diet and ha!)its laid down for him during a greater or less length of time (varying in each case), and be made to miderstand the pre- cautions he must always take in the future against recurrence of the lesion, there is a great chance that he may recover from the symptoms and remain free from them. The condition is not exactly curable, but can be removed, and its recurrence completely guarded against, if the patient do what is asked of him.