GLANDERS (FARCY) 454 Cultures should be prevented from drying. The bacilli will not grow upon potato at room- temperature, being best maintained at 36°- 36-5° C. (Marx, 1899). Initial cultures show a brownish, moderately thick, and slimy growth after 3-5 days, at times earlier. Subcultures grow more rapidly, the growth presenting a clear, honey-like appearance, subsequently grow- ing dark and opaque, acquiring a cafe au lait or chocolate colour in the course of a week or so. The potato about the edge of the growth often exhibits a greenish discolorisation. Mashed potatoes spread in a laj'er upon the bottom of Erlenmeyer flasks also afford an excellent means of cultivating the germ. Next to potato, blood- serum and then glycerinated agar are the best media. On coagulated or gelatinised serum after 3 days at 37° small transparent, discrete drop-like colonies appear. Upon glycerin-agar slants it forms a somewhat slimy, greyish white translucent growth, which with time acquires a brownish tint. Whereas it grows badly on white of egg it grows well upon sterilised yolk, forming knob-like growths after 24 hours (Marx, 1889). It also grows well upon sterilised carrot, forming a white pigment in 2-3 days. They form a stringy white mass in gelatin, which takes some weeks to become liquefied. They grow well in glycerinated bouillon which has not been neutralised, at first imiformly clouding the medium, and subsequently forming a stringy deposit. Babes (1891) recommends agar made with potato juice instead of meat infusion as a culture medium. Milk is coagulated in 10-12 days at 37° C, the reaction being neutral (Gorini, 1896). It grows in deep gelatin at 22°, and in a hydrogen atmosphere at 37°, but not as well as under aerobic conditions (Marx, 1899). Products.—WQ have already referred to the pigment which is formed by the bacillus, and stated that it constitutes an important char- acteristic of the organism. The pigment varies somewhat, depending upon the nature of the medium. On acid potato it is brown, on agar a pale straw colour, in bouillon at times orange- coloured, on carrots white (Smith, 1889; Marx, 1899). The bacilli exert a pathogenic eff'ect by virtue of toxic substances which they give off" or contain. If dead bacilli are inoculated into an animal they produce local pathogenic effects. If the bacilli have first been washed with dis- tilled water they exert less effect. If intro- duced in sufficient quantity they produce a cachectic condition which ends in death (Babes, Rigler, and Podaska, 1897). Kalning, Preusse, Pearson, Roux, and Foth (1891-96) have by different procedures obtained " mallein" from cultures of the glanders bacillus. Mallein is a compound similar to "tuberculin," and constitutes from a practical point of view the most important product of the germ. Kalning obtained it from potato cultures which he rubbed up with water, heated to 120° C. for 20 minutes on four successive days. He kept the fluid for two days at 39°, and then passed it through a Pasteur filter. Preusse used old dried-up potato-cultures, rubbing them up with glycerine and water, and placed them some days in the thermostat, after which they were filtered and sterilised, the filtrate being the mallein. Roux concentrated the sterilised filtrate of glycerin-bouillon cultures a month old, obtaining a syrupy fluid, which had to be diluted with ten times its volume of ^ per cent carbolic acid for use. The dose of concentrated mallein for a horse amounts to \ ccm. (Nocard, 1895). The value of mallein in diagnosis has been tested thousands of times upon horses, and in a few cases in man. It is without doubt invaluable in diagnosis, especially of hidden glanders in the horse. Properly prepared it preserves its qualities unimpaired for 1-2 years. Foth (1893-94) has made a dry preparation for which he claims greater stability. (See further under Diagnosis.) De Schweinitz and Kilborne (1894) consider that the active principle of mallein is an albumose which can be precipitated from cultures by alcohol or ammonium sulphate. Its chemical composition has been investigated also by Kresliiig (1892) and Gutzeit (1892), but our knowledge is still unsatisfactory. Levan- dowskj^ (1890) found cultures of the bacillus in bouilloia to contain indol and phenol, these according to Kresling (1892) being absent in potato cultures. The bacilli also contain a peptonising ferment, as is seen from the lique- faction of gelatin. Chemical Comjjosition.—When the bacilli are dried at 110° C. they yield dry substance equal to about 24 per cent of their original weight. The ash (6'67 per cent) contains much phos- phoric acid, potassium, sodium, sulphuric acid, and traces of iron and chlorine. The nitrogen amounts to 10-5 per cent. The dry substance is soluble as follows: in water 25'75 per cent, in ether 2-84 per cent, ether and alcohol 3'2 per cent, alcohol 0'66 per cent, the rest remaining insoluble in any of these agents. The ethereal extract yielded a yellow fat melting at 40° C, and containing lecithin, cholesteariu, and oleic acid (Kresling, 1892). Behaviour of the Bacilli outside the Body.— Loffler (1886) did not believe that the bacilli would multiply outside the body vmder ordinary conditions. They do not do so in hay and other infusions. Bacilli obtained from different sources vary considerably in their powers of resistance. Cadeac and Mallet (1886) found that they could not withstand drying ; Bonome (1894) found they died after 10 days at 25°, whilst dried over sulphuric acid they only died after 35 days. Under the most favourable conditions Loffler found that they did not retain their virulence longer than four months. Sanarelli (1889) found them virulent longest (two months) in anaerobic cultures, in aerobic