ECZEMA 30 provokes a seroleucocytosis. A thinner and more watery pustule forms than in ordinary impetigo. Nevertheless these so-called acute eczema vesicles of Unna are probably, as Torok maintains, of the nature of impetigo, and not true eczematous vesicles. Unna himself recog- nises their impetiginoid character, and says they are not to be confused with those secondary eczematous vesicles which are part of a general serous inflammation. Unna, however, is not content with pointing out the prevalence of these cocci in the mycosiform eczemas, but claims for them the power of origination, and regards their presence as the final proof of the identity of eczema. Considering the impei'fect nature of the evidence we must regard these opinions as hypothetical and non-proven. Not- withstanding these bacteriological difficulties we are encouraged to hold on to the parasitic theory from considerations relating to the course and development of this particular class of eczemas. Unna has rightly pointed out the prime im- portance of sterilising the surface of the scalp, and of correcting the seborrhcea in order to cure these eczemas, the scalp being regarded as the fount and origin of the inflammation. Further support of the hypothesis is afforded by the fact that local remedies which have the effect of killing the injured epithelium, destroy at the same time its infectivity, and arrest the centri- fugal extension of the inflamed patches. Histo-pathology.—It is a curious fact that the naked eye is capable of discerning many varia- tions and distinctions in the lesions of eczema which disappear under the microscope. As Uima remarks, so simple and uniform are the structural changes of eczema that it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that we are dealing with a uniform histological process. Nor is there anything in this notion which contradicts the belief that eczema, regarded from an all-round point of view, is a disease of dififerent kinds in different persons. It is the individual that determines what kind, and not the histological process. From a precise pathological standpoint, eczema may be defined as a device to throw off an injured epithelium. The method by which this is effected is essentially the same in all varieties of eczema, both acute and chronic, and consists of :— (1) Blood fluxion to the menaced or injured part. (2) Exudation of plasma into the epithelium. (3) The softening and loosening of the epi- thelium in consequence of this exudation. (4) The stimidation of the deep germinal epithelium to new growth. (5) Encapsulation of the softened ojdematous epithelium by an undergrowth of impervious homy tissue. (6) The casting off of the injured portion. (7) The contraction of the capillaries, and the restoration of vaso-motor control. The microscopic changes in the skin are as follows:— 1. Epitheliuvi. — Cellular and intercellular oedema, the degree depending on the acuteness of the process. Broadening of the plate- epithelium, and deepening of the cones. If exudation is excessive, or if external pressure resists the escape, a split occurs between the horny and granular layer to accommodate the plasma (vesicle). The horny external layer is converted into a soft nucleated membrane. With this softening of the surface one of the main defences of the skin against external irritants is removed. This softening and nuclea- tion of the surface horn cells is called j^aralce.ra- tosis, in contradistinction to keratosis, which is the normal process of surface induration and the disappearance of the nuclei and cell-contents. In dry eczema, especially in the papular forms, the growth of epithelium is more pi'onounced than in the moist varieties, while the spongy condition is less marked. 2. Papillary Body.—The shape of the papilliie is modified according to the downward growth of the cones. Capillaries are dilated. In some acute cases there is a gathering of leucocytes in this situation, but they may be normal or sub- normal in quantity. 3. Derma.—The coimective tissue corpuscles are greatly increased in number, with increase of collogen, in cases of indurated chronic eczema. Leucocytary infilti'ation is absent in the true eczemas, this fact serving to distinguish them from the dermatites. 4. Leucocytes.—The exact part played by the diff'erent varieties of leucocytes in the eczemas has not yet been determined. Observation points to the conclusion that they are only of secondary importance. Their presence in large numbers is to be taken as an indication of some additional element in the etiology, such as laxity and debility of tissue, the invasion of the skin by pyogenic organisms, etc. 5. Ferments play, probably, a not unimportant part in the pathology of eczema. The present writer has shown that irritated human epithelium produces, under certain circumstances, a pro- teolytic ferment capable of converting the pro- teids of inflammatory plasma into peptones, and of liquefying gelatine outside the body. The fibrin ferment is probably derived from the spitting up of leucocytes, or of certain leucocytes. 6. Nerves. — There is almost a complete absence of exact information regarding the state of the cutaneous nerves in ac\ite and chronic eczema. Twenty years ago (1879) Colomiatti published his histological observa- tions of a number of eczemas of papular squamous type. He found "essential changes in the cutaneous nerves." Leloir's efforts to confirm Colomiatti's observations at first failed; he could find no evidence of disease either in the nerve-fibres or in their sheaths. But in his