168 EPISTAXIS Epistaxis. Frequency Pathogenesis . Etiology Symptomatology Diagnosis Treatment 168 168 168 169 169 169 See also Glanders (Symptoins in Man); HiEMA- tembsis {Conditions ivhicJi siviulate); Hemo- ptysis {Diagnosis); Hysteria {Symptoms, Circulatory Disorders); Leprosy {Clinical Features); Leucocyth^emia {Symptoms); Liver, Diseases op {Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis, Symptoms); Liver, Diseases of {Signs of Cirrhosis); Mumps or Epidemic Parotitis {Complications); Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis); Purpura {Werlhof's Purpura, Symptoms); Eay- naud's Disease {Progress and Complications); Scurvy, Infantile {Clinical Features); Typhoid Fever {Symptoms); Undulant Fever {Symp- toms). Definition.—The escape of blood from the mucous membrane of the nose. Frequency.—Pliny expresses the opinion that " man is the only creature from whom blood flows at the nostrils." Only excepting men- struation, there is no htemorrhage of greater frequency and none regarded with less concern by the public mind. Occasionally it causes anxiety, more often it is welcomed, and gener- ally the bleeding is forgotten as soon as it has ceased. For this latter reason it is difficult to obtain very accurate statistics as to the fre- quency of epistaxis. From a consideration of a large mass of statistics based upon questions put to many hiuidreds of patients of both sexes, of all ages, and of all conditions of health, the writer foimd that one hundred and forty-two per thousand had recollections of blood dropping from the nose; and that it was of rather more frequent occurrence in the male sex. Age.—The periods of life during which it is most prone to occur were found to be between the ages of 10 and 2.5, and after 55. Pathogenesis.—Epistaxis occurs in one of two ways. Blood may escape from the veins and capillaries by diapiedesis, in which case the loss of blood is gradual, and although not great at any one time, yet if the diapedesis is long continued or often repeated, in the aggregate the loss may be serious. The other way in which epistaxis may occur is by rupture of a blood-vessel; the onset is then more sudden and more copious, but the total amount of blood lost is not necessarily greater than by dia- pedesis. In this latter way only can the bleed- ing be arterial. Epistaxis by diapedesis implies increased blood-pressure in the veins and capillaries, or increased permeability of the walls of the vessels. The increased permeability of the vessel wall may be due to defective nutrition (blood dis- eases) ; to the introduction of certain poisons or poisonous products into the blood (infectious fevers, toxfemic affections, phosphorous poison- ing) ; or to a defect in the vessel wall which may be congenital, as in the case of so-called "bleeders" (ha?mophilia), or acquired, as in pui'pura or scurvy. Epistaxis through rupture of a vessel is usu- ally traumatic, rupture may result from increased blood-pressure in senile and degenerate vessels, or vessels may be laid open by ulceration and new growths. The bleeding point in the vast majority of cases, and certainly of those due to constitu- tional causes, is to be found in the anterior and lower part of the cartilaginous septum. At this spot there is a very free anastomosis of the terminal twigs of the vessels supplying the septum. Other parts of the nasal chambers in the lower animals as well as in man, however, are equally rich in blood-vessels, so that vas- cularity in itself does not serve to adequately explain the proclivity of the blood-vessels at this spot in man to allow blood to escape so often, and apparently with so little provocation. A consideration of the development of the nose led the writer to offer the following as a further explanation. The structures entering into the formation of the septum are subject to delayed or excessive development, and their develop- mental activity continues not only up to puberty, but in a greater or less degree for some years after, as evidenced by the formation of ridges and spurs. In consequence the blood-supply to this region is carried partly by newly-formed vessels, these are more easily torn and more readily permit diapedesis to take place. The human face in comparison with that of the lower animals is characterised by being extended vertically instead of horizontally. This characteristic is determined by the development of the septum. In the foregoing remarks we have a corollary to the opinion expressed by Pliny, and quoted above, "that man is the only creature from whom blood flows from the nostrils." Etiology.—Epistaxis may be primary, i.e. arising from some abnormal condition in the nose, and therefore local in origin ; or secondary, i.e. arising from some abnormal constitutional condition. Amongst the primary or local causes, except- ing developmental, the most frequent is traumat- ism. The injury may be direct or indirect; it may be excited by the introduction of foreign bodies into the nostril, as is often a habit with children; by picking the nose, at times resorted to by those who have experienced relief from an epistaxis in order to artificially induce another ; or by a blow directly upon the nose. When the blow is sufficient to cause fracture of the septum the htemorrhage may be more than an epistaxis,