GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 378 the bile ducts, may be either acute or chronic. As the acute affection is always associated with a similar condition in the ducts, and as it is the latter that gives rise to the most evident symptoms, the consideration of the former will be deferred until the latter is discussed. A chronic catarrh, as has already been pointed out, is probably an invariable precursor of the formation of gall-stone in the gall-bladder, but, as a rule, this condition gives rise to few symp- toms other than evidences of dyspepsia, until calculi have formed. The form of chronic catarrh which does give rise to symptoms is that usually following on the presence of gall-stones and persisting after these have disappeared, but occasionally originat- ing as the sequel to an acute cholecystitis, like that sometimes present in association with typhoid fever, influenza, and other acute affec- tions. In these cases the local condition depends in great measure on the duration of symptoms. Where these have lasted only for a short time the gall-bladder may be somewhat dilated, though it is rare to find it so large as to be palpable through the abdominal wall; on the other hand, if the patient has been suffering for a long period the walls of the gall-bladder tend to become thickened, and the gall-bladder itself tends to contract. Adhesions to tlie neighbour- ing viscera may or may not be present according as the inflammatory disturbance has or has not extended to the peritoneal coat. As a rule, however, if there has been well-marked and repeated gall-stone colic, or if the preceding cholecystitis has been acute and associated with marked tenderness, there will be more or less adhesion present. The gall-bladder will usually be found to contain thick, ropy mucus, sometimes so inspissated as to resemble grains of boiled sago; but it may be so contracted that the cavity is practically obliterated,—a form to which the term cholecystitis obliterans may be properly applied. The symptoms in this condition simulate very closely those due to cholelithiasis, but the colic is for the most part less severe, and the tender- ness is either absent or much less marked. Jaundice is almost invariably absent, but, rarely, it does occur. In one case I treated recently the attacks of colic were invariably preceded by slight jaundice ; in this case it seemed as if the thickened mucus was allowed to pass until a cataz-rhal condition of the mucous 'membrane in the common duct so lessened the calibre of the passage as to retard the flow of the mucus and thus set up painful spasm. Medical treatment similar to that advised for acute catarrh will, if persisted with, get rid of symptoms in most cases ; but in some, especially where there are adhesions, the gall-bladder will require to be opened and drained until the inspissated mucus disappears from the discharge. At the same time any adhesions which are present should be broken down. If the cavity of the gall-bladder be almost obliterated, the best mode of treatment will be to perform cholecystectomy. Empyema of the Gall-bladder.—Normally bile removed from the gall-bladder will be found sterile, bxit experimentally it has been shown that if the outflow of bile and mucus from the gall-bladder be obstructed pyogenic micro- organisms make their appearance. Pure ciiltures of staphylococci, streptococci, and bacillus coli communis have been introduced into the gall-bladder, where there was no obstruc- tion to the outflow, without producing any un- toward symptom. This experimental evidence is supported by clinical experience, since iia every case in which empyema of the gall-bladder occurs it will be found that there has been present some cause of obstruction in the cj'stic duct; either a gall-stone has become impacted in the duct, or the lumen has become diminished as a result of a chronic catarrh, of kinking from adhesions, or of malignant disease. In the great majority of cases the onset of empyema is preceded by cholelithiasis, though it may occur as a consequence of obstruction of the cystic duct from any cause—chronic catarrh, cancer of the duct, hydatids, etc. From whatever cause arising, the onset of suppuration is followed by dilatation of the gall- bladder and localised peritonitis in its neigh- bourhood. Should the case be allowed to progress, the gall-bladder will either rupture into the general peritoneal cavity, giving rise to peritonitis, or it will contract adhesions to the neighbouring hollow viscera or the parietes, and relief may occur by the discharge of pus either into the intestinal canal or through the skin. The symptoms leading up to empyema will, of course, vary with the cause, but mostly there will be the ordinary symptoms of cholelithiasis. With the supervention of suppuration there will appear a swelling luider the right costal margin. The tumour will be found to be somewhat pear- shaped, and will be directed along a line reach- ing from the tip of the ninth costal cartilage to a point in the middle line about an inch below the umbilicus. It will move with respiration in the earlier stages, and will be only slightly tender. As the inflammation spreads to the peritoneum the tenderness will become greater, and the outline of the tumour will become less distinct^—partly from the adhesions which it contracts, but mainly from the muscular rigidity which now appears. Pain will be continuous, but it varies in severity. In some cases there may be no elevation of temperature, but in others even at the commencement there are fever and malaise, and rigors may occur. In my experience the presence of fever has always been found to be associated with ulceration of the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder, and the pain