135 EPHEMERAL FEVER fever is commonly applied to any fobrile state not de|)endent on infection or local affection, and of shorter duration than twenty-four hours. If such a febrile state continues for a longer period, say for three or four days, the term febricula is often used, but no real distinction can be drawn between ephemeral fever and febricula. Nature.—The term ephemeral fever is usually made to cover a considerable variety of condi- tions which differ greatly from each other in their nature and origin, and which do not all strictly conform to the definition given above. The most important of tliese are the I'ollowing:— (1) Aliortive Infections.—Dvu-ing epidemics of any of the ordinary infectious diseases one meets with cases of persons attacked with malaise and often sharp fever, which subsides in the course of a day or two, often by crisis, without the development of any rash or any other local symptoms. Persons exposed to the infection of a disease from which they have already suffered may be attacked in this way. The diagnosis in such cases is often extremely uncertain, and recovery is so rapid that it is often a very difficult question to decide whether or not the patient can be allowed to resume his occupation without running the risk of carrying infection. (2) Fever following Chill.—"Catching cold" is sometimes attended by a very considerable febrile reaction in the entire absence of any local affection, or with a sore throat or nasal catarrh much too mild to account for the amount of fever. As the fever is attended by a consider- able degree of malaise, with loss of appetite and coating of the tongue, it is often set down, with- out any sufficient reason, as due to gastric catarrh. (3) Fever with D//spej>sia.—Dyspeptic attacks, especially in children, may be attended by con- siderable fever. Fever may be due in some instances to the absorption of toxic substances either present in the food when eaten or arising in the course of digestion. (4) Fever may result from prolonged and violent muscular exertion. Such fever may be associated with great tenderness of the muscles and petechial hemorrhages in the skin over the muscles affected. (5) Fever follow ing exposure to the sun.—Even in this country prolonged exposure to a hot sun may be followed by some febi'ile reaction. This may be associated with erythema or even some l)listering of the parts of skin exposed to the siui. (6) Fever may arise as the result of bi-eathing foul odours or gases from badly - ventilated sewers. Such fever may come on very rapidly, with nausea and vomiting, and may in some cases be followed by collapse or coma. The air in well-ventilated sewers appears to be innocuous. (7) Tropical Ephemeral Fever.—-New-comers tf) tropical climates are liable to be attacked by an ephemeral fever characterised by sudden onset, with considerable rise of temperature, malaise, dryness of the skin, and all the ordinary accompaniments of fever, lasting from twenty- four to seventy-two hours, and ]jassing off frequently by crisis with copious sweating. This form of fever, occurring during the prt)- cess of acclimatisation, is probably produced by the altered conditions of life, especially by defective metabolism with retention of effete products, rather than the restdt of any specific infection. A similar fever may attack old residents and natives, and is then frequently complicated with malaria. (8) Fever due to uiu'ecognised lesions. In young children and lunatics especially it is often extremely difficult to make certain whethei' any lesion is present which would account for fever. Cases of fever of short duration may also be met with which cannot be brought under any of the above headings. Such cases have been described as occurring especially in elderly women, in women at tlie period of the meno- pause, and in the subjects of enlarged prostate. Similar cases may be met with in otherwise perfectly healthy adults. Probably most cases of ephemeral fever nnist be regarded as belong- ing to one of the groups above mentioned rather than as examples of a specific disease of no known etiology, without symptoms except those of fever, and with no known pathology. Symptoms.—The symptoms usually set in abruptly, sometimes with some preliminary indisposition. The temperature usually ranges from 101° to 103", but not infrequently it rises higher. There is usually loss of appetite, the tongue is coated, and there may be luieasincss in the epigastrium. The skin is hot and dry. The urine is scanty and high-coloured. There may be slight delirium at night, especially in the case of children. Herpes on the lips is a common symptom, especially in cases following chill. Such cases are sometimes spoken of as herpetic fever, though the herpes is obviously only a symptom, and one which may not appear till the fever has abated. The fever usually terminates by crisis, which may be accompanied by copious sweating. The diagnosis depends on the absence of any local cause of fever, of symptoms of any of the specific fevers, and especially of the charac- teristic eruptions, and tipon the rapid subsideiu'c of the fever. Prognosis.—The prognosis is entirely favour- able in healthy subjects. It must be somewhat more guarded in the case of debilitated patients, and especially of alcoholics. In alcoholic sub- jects especially danger may arise from visceral complications. Treatment.—The patient should be kept at rest in bed, clad lightly but sufficiently, and