473 OLAUCOMA annular posterior synechia with bulging iris, it is sometimes impossible to pass the linear knife between the iris and the cornea. It may then be passed through and behind the iris instead of in front of it, and will, in cutting out, re- establish the desired communication between posterior and anterior chambers. Quite a small aperture in the iris may suffice in such a case to permanently relieve the tension. Incisions and punctures which divide the ciliary region in a more or less meridial direc- tion, and which, if they involve the corneo- scleral junction, will open the aqueous and vitreous chambers simultaneously, were formerly and are still occasionally practised. Such in- cisions are capable of giving immediate relief and of depleting the ciliary body, but they are not comparable in safety or certainty of result with a well-made iridectomy. Stretching and rupture of the infra trochlear nerve, and excision of tlie superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, are jnethods occasionally employed where other treatment has failed. The evidence in their favour is not very strong. After-Treatment.—The essential points in the after-treatment are to obtain quietude and sleep, to apply the necessary dressings with little pressure, and to guard against stooping and all sudden or straining movements. So long as the chamber is empty, or the wound obviously leaking, the patient should remain in bed. Finally, the refractive condition of the eye must be tested and corrected with special regard to the astigmatism which the operation commonly sets up, and the patient must be carefully instructed to avoid such conditions or habits of life as might lead to a recurrence of his malady. Gla.llCOSiS.—IJlindness produced liy glau- coma ('/.('.). GlauCOSUria. — A morbid condition of the urine in which it has a green colour. Gleet.—Chronic gonorrhoea, chronic ure- thritis, or chronic bleunorrhcea. 8ee Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea); Gonorrhceal Infec- tion. Gleichenburg^. See Balneology {Austi'ia, Alkaline). Glenard's Disease. See P]ntero- PTOSIS. GlengfOre. See Syphilis {Historical). GlenO-.—In compound words gleno- means relating to a sliallow joint or articular cavity {e.r/. glcno-huraeral) or to the socket of the eye. Gliadin.—Vegetable gelatin, the tenacious mass, insoluble in water, left as a residuum after the evaporation of a strong alcoholic solution of gluten. Glioma.—A colloid neoplasm of the ner- vous system or a sarcomatous tumour of the retina. See Brain, Affections of Blood- Vessels {Cerebral Haemorrhage, Pathology) ; Glaucoma {Cavses of Secondary Glaucoma). Gliomatous Arthropathy.—Syrin gomyelia, a disease in which there are new forma- tions in the spinal cord consisting of glial cells, and in which joint affections are common. See Joints, Diseases of {Associated with Lemms of the JVervous System, Syringomyelia, Pathological Anatomy) ; Syringomyelia. Gliosis. — A morbid condition in whicli embryonal neuroglial tissue forms and then breaks down into cavities (on account of hajmor- rhage, etc.); it may occur in the cei-ebrum {see Insanity, Pathology, Hypertrophic Nodular Gliosis) or in the spinal cord {see Syringo- my'elia). Globin.—One of the derivatives of haimo- globin. See Physiology, Blood (Deconipositioit, of llii'iaoglolj iii ). Globule.—A small spherical mass, such as a blood or colostrum corpuscle or the body extruded from the ovum during maturation {polar globule), or a pill or capsule containing a medicinal substance. Globulin.—A simple, native proteid ; it is insoluble in water and so differs from allnimin; globtilinuria signifies the presence of globulins in the urine. See Physiology, Protoplasm {Classification of the Proteids) ; TTrine, Patho- logical Changes {Albuminuria). GlobulOSe.—A proteose or proteid with a less complex molecide than globulin. See Physiology, Protoplas.m {Proteids). Globus HysteriCUS.-^The feeling, as of a l)all rising in the tiu-oat, often complained of in the onset of a liysterical fit. See Hysteria. Glomerulus. See I'liYsioLuiiv, Excre- tion {Kidney, Structure); Kidney, Physiolociy OF. Glonoin Oil.—Nitroglycerin or Nobel's Blasting Oil; tlie name has originated in the chemical formula of the substance—Gl repre- senting glyceryl, C3H.—wliich is (ilONO.,. See Nitroglycerin. GlOSSalgfia.— I'ain in the tongue ; glosso- dynia. Gloss Anthrax, — Anthrax affecting specially the mucous memliranes of the mouth. See Anthrax {in Anivtals).