GASTKO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 410 especially amongst the poorer and more ignorant classes, of a most indigestible kind; and in all classes it is apt to be given in too large quantity and at too short intervals. The mortality from infantile diarrha3a is greater in town than in country districts, but it would seem that this difference does not depend entirely on density of population; poverty and defective sanitation are potent causes. There can be little doubt that infantile diar- rhoea is sometimes contagious ; cases have been observed where it has seemed to spread from infant to infant, and also to nurses, but the possibility of a common source of infection, especially in the milk-supply, must be carefully excluded. Of recent years attempts have been made to isolate from the very numerous bacteria which are always present in the. intestine a specific micro-organism as the cause of the diarrhoea, especially the summer diarrhoea of infants, but hitherto the results have been quite incon- clusive. Dr. Klein has recently isolated a micro- organism, the bacillus enteritidis sporogenes, which there is reason to believe plays an im- portant part in the causation of some of the acute cases of summer diarrhoea; but other micro-organisms have also been found with more or less constancy, and it seems probable that there may be several different micro-organisms which are all equally capable of exciting a gastro-intestinal catarrh. The manner in which these bacteria cause diarrhoea is also probably not the same in all cases: in some they produce chemical changes in the food either outside the body or in the intestine, so that the altered food is an irritant; in others they themselves produce toxins which not only act as an irritant to the mucous mem- brane, but also when absorbed may cause some of those profound disturbances, especially of the nervous system, which are so marked in some cases of diarrhoea. But while it is almost certain that a very large proportion of the cases of diarrhoea in infancy are due to micro-organisms, and are therefore " infective,"—and it must be under- stood that the mildest summer diarrhoea and the most virulent choleraic diarrhoja are in this sense equally "infective," though probably due to different micro-organisms,—one recognises clinically many cases in which there is no reason to suppose any such cause at work. Indigestible food in the intestine may act as a mechanical irritant. Certain chemical poisons are sometimes the cause of diarrhoea, and apart from the ordinary aperient medicines some drugs given medicinally for other purposes, e.g. ammonium carbonate or arsenic, may act thus. Most of the specific fevers are occasionally associated with diarrha-a; thus whooping-cough, measles, scarlet fever, and diphtheria are all sometimes complicated by severe diarrhoea. Typhoid and tuberculous ulceration of the in- testine will not be considered here, as they fall into a somewhat different category, but in any given case of diarrhoea they must, of course, be considered as possible causes. Diarrhoea is very common with broncho-pneu- monia in infancy ; and it is often difficult to be sure which was the primary disease ; here, as in the specific diseases just mentioned, the diarrhoea may be " infective" in character, and perhaps the same explanation applies to the diarrhoea which often complicates suppurative conditions, such as pytemia or empyema. The part played by dentition in the causation of diarrhoea is obscure, but it is certain that the eruption of a fi-esh tooth is frequently associated with diarrhoea; possibly the nervous disturbance which so often accompanies denti- tion may, like fright or excitement in older children, affect the intestine. Lastly, the effect of chill must be mentioned ; chronic diarrhoea especially sometimes seems to be prolonged, if not actually caused, by exposure to cold, and in infancy this cause is too often present owing to the insufficient covering for arms, legs, and abdomen which custom demands. Simple Diarrhoea {Intestinal Indigestion, Gast7v-intestinal Catarrh).—In its mildest form simple diarrhoea is quite a transient and slight affection. The infant, who has previously been quite well, seems restless, and perhaps shows signs of colicky pain, screaming and drawing up its legs. The bowels are open five or six times in the day ; the faeces at first are only slightly looser than normal, and pi-obably con- tain undigested casein or other food-stuff', but soon they become more liquid, and perhaps green and offensive with some mucus. Fre- quently some vomiting precedes the diarrhoea, showing that there is some gastric as well as intestinal irritation. The temperature may be raised to 100° or 101" at first, but quickly becomes normal, and often is normal through- out. Even with a very mild attack the infant quickly shows that it is ill; it ceases to be playful, and if it has already begun to crawl or walk, it may give up these accomplishments altogether; as the mother says, "it has gone off its legs," it only wants to lie quietly in its cot or in its mother's arms. At the same time it is pale and dark under the eyes; its tongue is slightly furred, and it may refuse its food, or drink greedily as if it were thirsty. But the condition rapidly improves; some- times after only a few hours, sometimes after two or three days, the stools become less watery, and gradually resume their normal colour and consistency. The infant remains pale and fret- ful for a day or two after the diarrlioea has ceased, but speedily regains its usual health. Such is a mild attack of diarrhoea in an