GOUT 510 portant in those by no means infrequent cases where there is, in addition, a marked neurotic strain in the family (vide "Adolescent Insanity "). With the active and fixed habits of later Hfe a meat-free diet is very rarely practicable, and is very seldom called for. Cream, forming as it does the most appropriate form of fatty food in the dietary of the aged, likewise constitutes an excellent form of fat administration in gouty subjects. It should preferably be taken with milk pudding or stewed fruit in an otherwise simple meal, or it may be used in the preparation of chicken cream, fish cream, or in various combinations with vegetables, when it takes the place of butter {vide " Invalid Cookery "). Cream which has not been treated by any artificial process is always to be commended. Skim-rnilk is more digestible than ordinary milk in all cases where fat is not readily digested, but in recommending it as a beverage or food regard must be paid to the amount of proteids and lactose present in it. Whey is a useful article in many cases. It is a pleasant and stimulating drink, with a certain food value from the lactalbumin, lactose, and mineral matter present. In some cases whey plus cream make an admirable combination. The pure caseinogen of milk, now prepared by the Protean Company, in the form of a flour, and made into biscuits and bread, is an appro- priate form of proteid administration. The taste, however, is an acquired one. Cheese.—There is no reason why cheese should be forbidden. The ill effects frequently attributed to it arise from the manner in which it is taken at the end of a meal, already excessive and badly assorted. Being a rich albuminous food, and varying in the proportion of fat present according to the variety of cheese, it should not be taken in large quantity; it should be well masticated, and it should be carefully distributed through the various vegetables or bread-stuffs of the meal {vide p. 521). The composition of cheese depends entirely on the amount of fat it contains. There are three leading varieties—soft, hard, and skim-milk. A fair average for the fat and nitrogen present in these three types, ivhen fresh, is as follows (Fleischman):— Soft. Hard. Skim-milk. Fat . . 31 to 44 29 2 to 3 Nitrogen . 13 to 24 28 19 to 33 The fatty acids present in cheese have been considered detrimental, but, on the other hand, it is possible that in some cheeses, especially the richer varieties, the acids formed by bacteria in them may be inimical to other putrefactive processes going on in the alimentary canal. If so, this would explain the absence of injurious effects from the taking of these cheeses noted in some cases of otherwise very weak digestion. The soft cheeses include cream cheese, Wilt- shire, Neufchatel, Gorgonzolas, and numerous other Italian and French cheeses. The hard cheeses, which ripen slowly, and are adapted for keeping, include the English and American Cheddar, Stilton, Cheshii'e, Gloucester, Dunlop, Parmesan, Gruyere, and most English, Dutch, and American cheeses. Gouda and Raden may be taken as illustrative of the skim-milk variety. It is well to recommend patients who are very fond of cheese to partake of one of the softer varieties, as, although less digestible, they are much less likely to be taken to excess. Eggs.—Eggs are an excellent dish for the gouty, and should form one of the staple break- fast dishes. They also constitute a very appro- priate food constituent for the children of gouty parents, in whom the consumption of meat, and especially red meats, should be very limited indeed. It is well to remember that a hard- boiled egg takes three hours, and a soft boiled or raw one, from \h to 2 hours for complete digestion. Carbohydrates.—The fact that gout is un- known in countries like Japan, where a strict vegetarian diet is common, clearly proves that, as a class, carbohydrates can by no means be the direct cause of the disturbance of metabolism characteristic of gout. On the other hand, taken in considerable amount and with strong nitro- genous food-stuff's, their use is freqviently accom- panied by some evidence of local disturbance in the alimentary canal, or general disturbance of metabolism in the tissues, either of which may be characteristic of a gouty proclivity of tissue. When this tendency is pronounced, the sum of the local and general effects produces typical gout in a more or less acute form, the mani- festations depending on the age and constitution of the individual. In other cases we find irregular gout, which, when well marked, may be regarded as equally typical, as it is dependent on internal peculiarity of tissue. Carbohydrates, and especially those of the saccharine group, are as a class to be regarded as more potent noxious agents than meat. The explanation of this is probably found in not one, but many factors, which have already been alluded to under Etiology. A good rule with regard to them is to reduce the amount and simplify their form. Saccharine foods and dietetic accessories, e.g. jams, marmalade, sugar, sweet cakes, are only to be partaken of occasionally and in small quantity, and in not a few cases, especially of stout adults, are to be studiously avoided. With regard to the strict vegetarian diet so eloquently advocated by Haig and others, the good effects undoubtedly derived in many instances depend, in my opinion, on the sim- plicity of the whole diet, with the limited quantity of the chief nitrogenous ingredients, these being the two primary essentials in the