480 GONORRHCEAL INFECTION however, the discharge should be examined microscopically to discover the presence or absence of the special micro-organism. In acute cases the cervical mucosa is attacked, and a copious purulent discharge flows from the cervical canal. The systematic examination of the discharges in cases of gonorrhoea has demonstrated the important influence of the cervical discharge, not only in acute, but also in chronic gonorrhoea. In the latter group of cases the cervical discharge remains infective for a lengthened period. The gonorrhoeal poison tends to persist for a long time in certain situations, viz. the cervical mucosa, the ducts of the vulvo-vaginal glands (glands of Bartholin), and lastly, the urethra. Where suitable treatment has been employed the disease may be cured before it has spread farther, and the more serious complications averted. If, however, douching, the incautious use of the sound or other instrument, has caused an upward extension of the poison, the body of the uterus, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, the pelvic peritoneum, and cellular tissue become in turn involved in the disease. Owing to the changes produced in the ovaries and Fallopian tubes sterility is a frequent con- sequence. Well-marked examples of what has been termed acute ascending gonorrhoea are found in puerperal cases, where infection has occurred late in pregnancy, and where the changes in the genital tract produced as a result of the delivery of the child favour the upward extension of the gonorrhoeal poison. During pregnancy, owing to increased secretion of mucus and epithelial desquamation, the vagina is more liable to be affected. The severity of the attack in acute cases prompts the sufferers to seek medical relief. In the subacute and chronic cases, where the symptoms are slight, the disease is allowed to progress untreated, unless some further com- plication arises. There is further the difficulty in persuading the class of patients who suffer from gonorrhoea to continue treatment until they are completely cured. Such patients with a gonorrhoeal discharge from the cervix uteri continue to be sources of infection to those with whom they come in contact. When a case of endo-cervicitis comes for treatment, it is well to examine the discharge for gonococci, for, as already mentioned, the passage of the sound or other instrument favours the upward extension of the gonorrhoeal poison. It should be added that the periodic congestion resulting from the menstrual func- tions tends to keep up or aggravate the cervical catarrh. There is considerable difficulty in estimating the proportion of cases of salpingo- oophoritis which are due to gonorrhoea. Statistics have been published by several German writers with a view to determining the exact proportion. The statement that ^^th of the cases is due to gonorrhoeal infection is probably correct. Septic infection, the result of a confinement, a miscarriage, or "persistent local treatment!" to the cervix uteri, and tuberculous infection, are answerable for the remainder. The clinical features of the cases of ascending gonorrhoea, with implication of the Fallopian tubes and ovaries, will be best understood by describing a typical example :— A healthy young woman has married a man who had contracted gonorrhoea six months previously, and who believed he was cured. Three or four days after marriage his wife complains of pain and soreness on passing water, accompanied by vaginal discharge. The in- tensity of the initial manifestations may vary considerably, but the history of definite local signs and symptoms can usually be obtained. The vaginal discharge persists long after the dysuria has disappeared. Menstruation, which before marriage had been regular and almost painless, soon becomes irregular and preceded by considerable pain. The pain commences gradually in the intermenstrual periods, and is aggravated by standing or exertion. It is felt not only in the hypogastric and iliac regions, but also in the sacral region, and extending down the thighs. The pain may or may not be relieved by the menstrual flow. The patient soon begins to lose flesh, and is unable to do any work, and, as the severity of the symptoms increases, may be entirely con- fined to bed. She becomes a chronic invalid, dragging on a weary existence, never free from aches and pains. During the progress of the illness the pain is liable to acute exacerbations, accompanied by elevation of temperature, thirst, nausea, and actual vomiting. Such attacks are frequently termed by patients " inflammation of the bowels," but are, in reality, due to pelvic peritonitis, spreading from the Fallopian tube, or in the severe cases actual leakage of pus through the abdominal ostium before it has become occluded. Sterility develops as a con- sequence of the tubal disease. On abdominal examination either no swelling may be detected, or a swelling in the iliac regions, tympanitic on percussion due to adherent intestine, which may in bad cases form a roof to the pelvis, thus rendering an abdominal operation very difficult. Where large collections of pus have formed in the tubes these may be palpated per abdomen. Vaginal examination reveals a mass situated on one or both sides of the uterus posteriorly. If unilateral, the uterus is pushed towards the sound side, and will probably be movable with the mass. The vaginal roof on the affected side is depressed. If bilateral, the masses, when of large size, may interfere with the mobility of the uterus, that organ being fixed in the centre of a bilateral swelling. The