441 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF the broad ligaments and to the vessels lying in them. The anterior fornix is distant a little over an inch from the bottom of the vesico- uterine pouch of peritoneimi ; to its outer sides and well above it are the ureters (Fig. 8). The structure of the vagina as seen by the naked eye consists of an outer layer or coat of connective tissue and elastic fibres, by means of which it is luiited to surrounding structures, and in which lie large venous plexuses ; of a middle or muscular coat in which separate layers of fibres have been described, concerning the arrangement of which, however, there is a want of unanimity among anatomists ; and of an inner layer or mucous membrane, thrown into folds and situated upon a subnuicosa, of a pink colour usually, but becoming ptirple in pregnancy. Microscopically the nuiscular coat Fin. S.—Diagram ot a supposeil mesial section of tlie pelvis of a living woman : «, anal canal; r, rectum; y, vagina; r, clitoris ; h, bladder when collapsed; k, uterus; d, valve of rectum (Houston); N, symphysis pubis ; S' sacrum ; C, coccyx. (After norland.), is found to consist of unstriped fibres running in bundles in various directions, and between which lie large veins and lymphatics. The submucosa consists of loose areolar tissue which enters into the formation of the columns, and on this lie several layers of pavement epithelium ; there are many papillfe iind only a few true secreting glands. The mucous membrane, if exposed continuously to the influence of the air, as in prolapsus, becomes skin-like, and it is in many respects a cutaneous rather than a mucous structure. If it be true that it is developmcntally derived from the lower ends of the Wolffian ducts (Wolffian bulbs of Hart) which are epiblastic structures, this peculiarity is largely accounted for. The vagina itself is developed from the Miillerian ducts (fused), but it is (piite possible that its lining mem- brane is, as Hart maintains, a derivative of the Wolffian bulbs. In the foetus the vagina is often distended with much des(]uamated epi- tlielium, and in vertical mesial section looks as it it were alniiist the only pelvic content. Great discussion has recently taken place as to the micro-organisms of the vagina. The con- sensus of opinion now seems to be that normally no pyogenic cocci are present, although many bacteria are to be found, including the thick bacillus vaginalis of L)<jderlein. The arterial blood-supply of the vagin.i is from the vaginal arteries (from the internal iliacs), from branches of the uterine arteries, and from branches from the jjudendal arteries. An azygos Ijranch in the anterior wall joining the circular artery of the cervix has been described by Hyrtl. The veins, without valves, form complete sheaths for the canal, both outside the nuiscular coat and beneath the mucous membi'ane. The lymphatics from the lower fourth of the vagina join those from the external genitals, and pass to the inguinal glands ; those from the rest of the canal go to the internal iliac glands. The nerves are from the inferior hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, from the fourth sacral and from the pudic nerves. External (iEnerative OiUiANs. — The ex- ternal genitals collectively constitute the vulva or pudenda, and consist of the labia majora and minora situated laterally, and of the mons veneris, clitoris, vestibule, meatus urinarius, vaginal orifice, hymen, fossa navicularis, four- chette, and perineum in the middle line. The mons veneris is an irregularly triangular area of skin with underlying adipose and connective tissue situated in fi-ont of the symphysis pubis. It is covered from the time of puberty onwards with crisp, curly hair which rarely passes upwards towards the umbilicus, and in this respect therefore differs from the hair of the same region in the male. Numerous sebaceous and sudoriparous glands arc found in the skin of the mons, and in its substance also the external ends of the round ligaments terminate in the form of scattered muscular hbres. From the sides of the mons two folds of skin [lass backwards towards the jjerineum, forming in their course the lateral boundaries of the A^ulva; these are known as the labia majorrt, or externa, or alfc majores. Each laljium has on cross- section a somewhat triangular form, the base rests on tlie pubic ramus, and the sides are the external and internal surfaces. The external surface is covered with rugie, and has an appearance recalling that of the scrotum in the male ; it carries numerous hairs from the age of jDuberty onwards, and there are plentiful sebaceous glands. On the inner surface the hairs are scanty, and the colour is less dark than that of the outer aspect. In multiparous women and in the old or emaciated the labia are pendulous, and the vulvar aperture gapes, but in nulliparie and in young or stout persons they are in contact and conceal the underlying structures. The labia are covered externally with a layer of skin, with numerous hair follicles and sebaceous jrlands : below this are