ELECTROLYSIS 68 therefore to those tumours elsewhere, in which we may legitimately be satisfied with such a pi'ocess and result, that electrolysis is applicable. For examjjle, I think it possible that electro- lysis has a future in connection with soft goitre and similar conditions. In goitre there is a structure to a certain extent comparable to angioma. A good deal may therefore be done by destruction and absorption of the slow-grow- ing tissue. It is not unlikely, moreover, that as in uterine fibroids more than the escharotic action may come into play, and that we may have nutritional and nerve effects from strong currents. My own experience of the local results has been distinctly favourable, but it is right that I should add that I never give an anaesthetic in exophthalmic goitre without fear and trembling, and that ^^atients will not submit to a strong current without it. This risk, how- ever, is involved in all surgical treatment of goitre. Electron.—According to the views on chemical compounds suggested by the discoveries regarding radium, the atom is not single and indivisible, but is made up of electrons, or "corpuscles," each containing a very small charge of negative electricity; the Beta rays of radium are electrons; perhaps electrons are the atoms of electricity. EIectro-therapeUtiCS. — The treat- ment of disease by electricity. See Electricity ; Electrolysis ; etc. Electro-thermic Angfiotribe.—A form of compression-cautery, introduced by Downes of Philadelphia for the treatment of the pedicle {e.g. in ovariotomy). ElectrotonuS. —The altered state of excitability of a muscle or nerve while an electric curi-ent is flowing through it; there is increased excitability round the cathode and diminished excitability round the anode. See Anelec- TROTONUS; Cathelectrotonus ; Physiology, Tissues (Muscle and Nerve, Electrotonus). Eiectrozone. — An antiseptic prepara- tion, consisting of sea-water in which the alkaline chlorides have been converted, by electrolysis, into alkaline hypochlorites. Electuaries.—A confection, conserve, or paste, consisting of a medicinal substance (usually a powder) mixed with honey or syrup. See CoNFECTio; Prescribing. Eleidin.—A substance allied to keratin, found in the rete mucosum of the skin. See Physiology, Tissues (Epithelivm, Keratin). Elemi.—An exudation (aromatic, yellowish- white in colour, soft in consistence) from the "pitch-tree" of the Philippine Islands; it con- tains a volatile oil, resins {Amyrin), amyric acid, and ciystalline bodies {Bryoidin, Breidin); it is used for making plasters and ointments. Elephantiasis. See Filariasis (Patho- genic Effects, Lymph Scrotum, Lymphangitis, Elephantiasis Arabum, Elephantoid Fever) : Leprosy (Elephantiasis Graecorumi); Mycetoma (Diagnosis); Pregnancy, Intra-Uterinb Dis- eases (Congenital Elephantiasis); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases (Elephantiasis Scroti, Sterility due to Elephantiasis of Scrotum); Tumours (Con- nective Tissue Type, Neurofibromatosis (Elephan- tiasis Neuromatosa)). Elevator.—An instrument for raising a piece of bone, e.g. in a depressed fracture of the cranium (hone elevator), or for keeping a part (e.g. the eyelid) out of the way during an opera- tion, or for correcting a displacement of the uterus (uterine elevator). Eleventh Nerve. See Physiology, Nervous System (Cranial Nerves, Spinal Accessory). Eliminant.—A medicine or medical means for throwing off some noxious product through the excretions. See Diaphoretics ; Diuretics ; Purgatives ; etc. Elixir.—In modern use an elixir is a liquid containing alcohol, syrup, a flavouring agent, and generally some drug as well, such as cascara or senna; the syrupus aromaticus (containing tincture of orange peel, cinnamon water, and syrup) is also termed simple elixir; the elixirs are official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia but not in the British; well-known examples are the Elixir Cascara Sagrada, the Elixir Rhei, and the Elixir Sennce. See Prescribing. Elster. See Balneology (Germany,Saxony, Alh.iline Waters). Elutriation.—The separation of the heavier from the lighter particles of a powder by suspending them in water, allowing them to settle, decanting off the supernatant fluid, allowing the remainder to settle again, and so on. Elytro- or Ely thro-. — In compound words elytro- (from Gr. eXurpov, a sheath or vagina) means relating to the vagina; thus. elythritis is inflammation of the vagina, elytrocele is vaginal hernia, elytropexia is vaginal fixation of the uterus, elytroplasty is vaginal plastic surgery, elytroptosis is prolapse of the vagina, elytrorrhaphy is narrowing of the vagina by a plastic operation, etc. See also Colpo-. Emaciation. See Brain, Tumours of (Sympjtoms, General Nutrition); Intestines, Diseases of (Malignant Disease, Symptoms);.