FUNDUS UTERI 369 Fundus Uteri. See Generation, Female (_)i;(;ans {Uto-us, Farts); Puerperium, Physiology {Heiijht of Fundus). Funs'!. See Diet {Fungi, Lichens, and A/r/a^) ; ToxicOLOGY {Poisoning hy Food Stuffs, Fungi). FungfUS.—-In descriptive Medicine the n;inie fnn,L;'us (mushroom) is given to any morbid growth of a spongy kind, such as a mass of exuberant granulaiJions {e.g. fungus cerebri, f. testis, f. vimbilicahs, etc.). Fungrus-Foot. See Mycetoma. Funis.—Tlie Umbilical Cord. See Fcetus AND Ovu^i, Development op {Umbilical Cord); Labour, Accidental Complications {Prolapsus Funis). Funnel Breast.—Funnel Breast (Germ. Tricliterbrust) is that in which there is a marked depression over the lower jjart of the sternum ; it has been ascribed to post-nasal adenoids, to tuberculosis, etc. FurfuraceOUS.—A term applied to a branny form of desquamation of the cuticle { furfur, bran) ; scurfy; it is a well - marked character of such skin diseases as ichthyosis and psoriasis. Furor,—Madness or mania; extreme ex- citement ; furor brevis is a short-lived outburst of wild rage; furor uterinus is a synonym of nymphomania. FurunculOSiS.—A condition in which uuiltiplc ljuils appear all over the body. See Boils and Carbuncle. Furunculus.—A boil. See Boils and Carbuncle. Furunculus Orientalis. Syn. : Oriental Boil or Sore. Under this heading must be described an aflec- tion which, under various names, is exceedingly common in some parts of tropical countries. Sooner or later almost every one residing in the tropics suffers from boils, eitlier singly or in crops, but in some places ))oils appear to be endemic as well as epidemic, and are well known under the local names Aleppo evil, Biskra button, Button de Crete, Dehli boil or sore, as also Garzebad, Jeypore, Lahore, Moultan, Meerut, Roorkee, Scinde, Umballa, Agra, and Aden boils or sores. Until very recently authorities differed as to the identity of these boils, but now almost all agree, and, for practi- cal purposes at any rate, they may be said to be identical. All ranks, sexes, ages, and classes of the population may be aifected, and the exposed parts of the body are very prone to attack, vol. Ill although the boils may appear all over the body, except upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and they are rare upon the scalp. Children are usually attacked on the face. These boils are most fre(piently met with during the rainy season, and vary in number from one or two to fifteen or even moi'e, although the smaller number is the most usual. Horses and dogs probably also suffer from this affection. Debility certainly predisposes to boils, as also the combined effects of malarial influences, exposure to long-continued heat and residence in insanitary localities, aided perhaps occasion- ally hj a scorbutic or syphilitic taint. The etiology of this affection is in an unsatis factory state. Lewis and Cunninghame thought that there was no evidence of any parasitic urgency in the jDroduction of the disease, and considered that it was due to the chemical con- stituents of the water. Vandyke Carter con- sidered that Delhi sore and Button de Biskra were identical, and thought it due to some fungus. Other observers think that the disease is due to inoculation ))y some insect. If the boil be examined microscopically, in- filtration of the skin and the areolar tissue, with lymphoid and epithelioid cells, is seen; these cells cluster round the blood-vessels and lymphatics. The nuclei of the cells are from 3 jx to 6 ft, the cells themselves from 7 /x to 9 jx. In 1885 Cunningham made a further investigation, and said that the diseased processes might be associated with and possibly caused by peculiar parasitic bodies which he found ; they could be stained by gentian violet. His researches were confirmed by Frith, but Riehl subsecjuently found micrococci, as did Poncet, varying in size from 0'9 /x to I'O /x in the granulation cells. The whole matter is, however, at present indefinite. [In 1903 Wright discovered a protozoon-like body in the tissues of the Dehli boil. This parasite, which is in all probability the cause of the condition, very closely resembles the Leish- man - Donovan body found in the spleen and liver in kala-azar or tropical splenomegaly. Notwithstanding their apparent identity, the fact that they occur in two diseases so dissimilar as Dehli boil and kala-azar, suggests that they may be different, though allied organisms.] The incubation of the disease varies from 3 to 16 days. After one attack a certain local immunity is enjoyed, and Bagdad Jews ai'e said to have inoculated their chikh'en so as to pre- vent their disfigurement. The value of this practice is however doubtful, as the aftection can be undoubtedly produced by inoculations upon persons who have previously suffered from it, but here again information is not absolutely accurate, and local rather than general immunity is most probable. 24