ECLAMPSIA 7 a fit, or even after the fits have ceased. Septic pneumonia may result from the inspiration of foreign bodies into the lungs. Treatment. — The treatment of eclampsia must be considered under two heads :— I. Prophylactic treatment. II. Curative treatment. I. Prophylactic Treatment. — Prophylactic treatment must be adopted in the case of every pregnant woman who has persistent albuminuria, especially if the urine also contains tube-casts. Such treatment must be carried out still more rigorously if any of the other prodromata of eclampsia appear. The importance attributed to prophylaxis will be shown by the following opinions :—" AVhen a patient suffering from albuminuria has been on milk diet for a week, she almost to a certainty escapes eclampsia" (Tar- nier). " Eclampsia occurs almost exclusively in women whose urine has not been examined during pregnancy " (Ribemont - Dessaignes). " The author has never yet seen a case of eclampsia occur amongst the numerous cases of kidney of pregnancy where this method (i.e. prophylactic treatment) has been adopted during pregnancy (Duhrssen). It is practically impossible, and it is rarely necessary, to enforce an absolute milk diet from the date at which renal disease is first recog- nised, i.e. about the sixth month, to the end of pregnancy. It will usually suffice if milk and other fluids are made to take a great share in the dietary. In addition fish, white meat, eggs, and vegetables may sometimes be allowed. If milk diet, is not an absolute essential, the due regulation of the eliminatory functions of the body is. The bowels must be freely moved each day, the skin must be encouraged to act by frequent warm baths, and the amount of urine passed daily must be noted. The dietary of the patient and the daily amount of urine should be in direct proportion to one another. The freer the action of the kidneys the more liberal may be the dietary. The moment the former show any signs of failure the latter must be reduced to milk alone, to be cautiously made more varied as the renal action improves. If the urine diminishes to a marked extent, and any of the prodromal symptoms of eclampsia appear, a hydragogue purgative must be at once administered. At the same time, to increase the action of the skin, hot baths and wet packs must be ordered, and the patient kept wrapped in blankets. A suitable purgative to administer in these cases consists of calomel 10 grs., combined with pulv. jalapse co. 1 drachm, and followed, if necessary, as is some- times the case, by an enema at the end of six hours. II. Curative Treatment.—The curative treat- ment of eclampsia is directed in the main to- wards two principal points :— (1) The arrest of the fits. (2) The staving oft" of complications. (1) The Arrest of the Fits.—The fits must be checked at the earliest possible moment, as each successive attack leaves the patient more liable to fall a victim to the complications of a failing heart and oedema of the lungs. There are three ways of attaining, or of endeavouring to attain, this end :— {a) By administering sedatives. (6) By removing toxic substances from the blood and tissues, (c) By emptying the uterus. (a) By administering sedatives.—There are two distinct lines of treatment which fall under this head—the chloral and chloroform treat- ment, and the morphia treatment. The chloral and chloroform treatment consists in administering, upon the onset of an attack, 30 grs. of chloral hydrate by the rectum, and repeating it every two hours until the fits cease. Up to 2>h di'achms may be given within twenty- four hours, but not more. The inhalation of chloroform is commenced as soon as any sign of the onset of a fit is noticed, and is continued until the fit is over. The great objection to this line of treatment is that we are administer- ing drugs which have a depressant effect upon the heart, and which consequently tend to favour the occurrence of heart failure. The moi'phia line of treatment was first in- troduced by U. Veit. It is the treatment which the writer recommends, as he considers it superior to the chloral and chloroform treat- ment. It consists in the administration of half a grain of morphia hypodermically as soon as a fit occurs. A quarter of a grain is then ad- ministered every two hours luitil the fits cease, but not more than three grains are given in twenty-four hours. Morphia will check con- vulsions quite as rapidly as chloroform, as statistics show, while at the same time it has not the same depressant effect upon the heart. Its reputed bad effect in renal disease is certainly not met w'ith in eclampsia. {h) By removing toxic substances from the blood and tissues.—The rapid removal of toxic substances fi'om the organism of the jjatient is a matter of the greatest importance, inasmuch as it is apparent that even if they are not the actual cause of the convulsions, they are always present in large quantities, and their removal is attended by almost immediate improvement. Their removal is effected in the main by pro- moting the excretory fiuictions of the body. With this object cathartic purgatives are ad- ministered. The calomel and jalap powder, as recommended above, if the patient is conscious, is the best purgative. If, however, she is comatose, it is useless to place bulky medicine in her mouth, as it would not be swallowed. In such a case two minims of croton oil made into