GLANDERS (FARCY) 457 into the deeper tissues, ;uid lay bare and erode the cartilage of the septum and the nasal bones. The submaxillary lymphatic glands are enlarged, indurated, and in some cases become adherent to the surrounding tissue ; they are not tender and seldom ulcerate. Hot, painful ocdematous swellings appear on the trunk and limbs; if on the latter they cause lameness. The disease reaches its height in from G to 15 days, the animal being by this time in great distress. Breathing is snuffling and difficult, the animal constantly snorting to expel the mucus and viscid nasal discharge which glues together the alic nasi. The lymphatics of the face and other parts of the body are often inflamed and coi'ded (acute farcy), and death from suftbcation pre- ceded l)y painful dyspnoea follows rapidly. Acute Cutaneous Glanders : Farcy.—The onset resembles that of acute glanders, and as a rule acute glanders is present at the same time ; if not, it usually supervenes l>efore death. The characteristic local lesions are inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, which appear as firm cords nnining under the skin, and the formation of nodTiles situated at intervals along these cords. The nodules show a marked tendency to ulcerate and discharge a thick oily material. These changes may appear in any part of the cutaneous surface, hwt show a preference for the hind limbs. The ulcers form about the sixth day. They have irregular raised borders, with a yellowish base covered with a grumous dis- charge. Death follows rapidly, usually from acute glanders, involving the respiratory tract. Chronic Glanders.—This form of the disease often comes on insidiously; there is frequently some constitutional disturbance, which may subside as the local lesions are developed. The premonitory symptoms vary much. The general health may appear good, but there is some duhu'ss of the eye and roughness of the coat, the animal shows lack of endurance and sweats easily. Lameness, intermittent or continuous, may be noticed, there may be axlema of one or more limbs, cough, bleeding from the nose, and possibly orchitis. The nasal discharge often present is at first clear, but eventually becomes cloudy, purulent, and viscid, and the animal is continually snorting to expel the secretion. If the nasal mucous membrane is examined, nodules and idcers can usually be seen, and after the disease has existed some time stellate scars are also present. The submaxillary lymphatic glands may be enlarged, but as a rule do not ulcerate. The larj'nx and trachea may be the seat of the primary lesion, the nasal symptoms being de- layed. In these cases, cough with varying expectoration, enlarged glands, tender larynx, foetid breath, and general ill - condition are usually present. The skin (chronic farcy) may be attacked before the respiratory passages. Nodules form and ulcerate, discharging a thick oily material, and generally after a few weeks heal, leaving a dense stellate cicatrix, fresli nodules forming in adjacent or more distant parts, these again healing, to be followed by the formation of fresh nodules. The lym- phatics leading from the affected parts are corded (farcy pipes). This process may go on for months or years, the animal either recovering or dying from an acute attack. Symptoms in Man.—The period of incubation is from 3 to 8 days, but apparently it may extend to three weeks. The disease commences with malaise, headache, vague pains in the muscles and joints simulating rheumatism. If the bacillus has entered through a wound, this may completely heal, but in a day or two the seat of inoculation becomes painful and swollen, an eruption of vesicles often appears around it, and the lymphatics become swollen and painful. Frequently the skin aboxit the seat of inocula- tion resembles phlegmonous erysipelas. In other cases gastro-intestinal symptoms are most prominent, and the disease simulates typhoid fever. Occasionally a pustular eruption, not unlike that of small-pox, occurs on the face and limbs. In most cases the general symptoms rapidly increase in severity, the joint pains becoming more severe, and axlematous swellings appear on the limbs. The temperature is raised, and though at fii'st the rise maybe intermittent, it soon becomes continuous. It is accompanied by severe headache, great prostration, dry skin, foul mouth, and foetid breath. The pulse is full and soft, varying between 90 and 100. Epistaxis often occurs. Hard, painful nodules may appear in the skin; these soon soften, break down, and form extensive, deep, irregular vilcers which may even lay bare the bone. The affections of the mucous membrane of the nose appear to be less frequent in man than in the horse, but they do occur. There is at first a feeling of dryness of the mucous membrane, accompanied by pain and tension at the root of the nose. The skin over the bridge of the nose becomes swollen and reddened, the mucous membrane is much injected and swollen, a foetid secretion apj^ears, at first clear and thin, but soon becoming yellow, purulent, and viscid, and finally blood-stained. The eyelids and con- junctiva) are swollen and cedematous, often completely closing the ej-e. The conjunctiva secretes a purulent fluid. The inflammatory process is apt to spread, invading the pharynx and palate. The gums are swollen and bleed readily, the breath is foetid, swallowing is diffi- cult, and the voice hoarse. The lungs are also involved, severe pleuritic pains are complained of, and there is a troublesome cough. Towards the end oedema of the glottis may supervene. The bowels, at first obstinate, become relaxed, and pi'ofuse diarrhoea follows. If the liver is involved it is enlarged, painfiil on pi-cssure, and there may be jaundice. As the disease progresses sleeplessness and nocturnal delirium ensue. If