484 GOUT Gout. Fr. Ooutte; Ger. Gicht. General Introduction .... 484 Morbid Anatomy ..... 485 Gout in Lower Animals .... 487 Acute Gout ...... 488 Chronic Articular Gout . . . 490 Irregular Gout ..... 491 Etiology op Gout . . . . .496 Hereditary Aspects .... 502 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 502 Therapeutics— General Principles .... 503 Individual Food-stuffs . . . 503 Points in Cooker}/ . . . 506 Liquids . . . . . .511 Medicinal Measures . . . .512 Spa Regime . . . . .513 The Acute Attack . . . .515 Illustrations of Treatment . . .516 See also Alcohol (Clinical Uses, Gout); Ankle- Joint, Kegion of, Diseases (Gouty Ai-thritis); Asthenopia (Neurasthenic) ; Asthma (Treat- ment) ; 'Ral^'eoIjOGY(Genera,lBalneo-Therapeutics, Disorders of Nxitrition and Elimination, Gout); Bronchi, Bronchitis (Acute, Etiology); Burs^b, Injuries and Diseases of (Bursitis, Gouty) ; Deformities (Hallux Valgus, Metatarsalgia); Diabetes Mellitus (Predisposing Causes); Dia- thesis (Gouty); Ear, External, Diseases of (Morbid Groivths, Gouty Deposits) ; Eczema (Etiology and Classification, Gouty); Guaiacum ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (General Pathology, Etiology); Hydropathy (Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Indigestion (Treatment of Special Forms, Gouty); Insanity, Etiology OF (Autotoxic); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Etiological Varieties); Leucocytosis (Toxic); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Purulent Menin- gitis, Etiology); Menstruation and its Dis- orders (Dysmenorrhoea, Causes) ; Migraine (Causes); Nails, Affections of (General Dis- eases, Gout, Reedy Nails); Nephritis (Renal Cirrhosis, Gout); Nerves, Peripheral (Neuritis, Causes); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neu- ritis (General Etiology); Nerves, Neuralgia (Etiology); Obesity (Pathological Relations) ; Oxygen ; Parotid Gland, Disorders of (In- flammatory Conditions, Causes); Penis, Surgical Affections of (Cavernitis, Causes); Pruritus (Causation); Pulse (Frequency, Causes); Rheu- matism ; Sclerotic, Diseases op (Sclerotitis); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op (Epididy- mitis, Orchitis, Testalgia); Stomach and Duo- denum, Diseases of (General Symptomatology, Gouty Dyspepsia); Teeth (Dental Caries, Saliva); Teeth (Diseases of Peridental Membrane, Causes); Tongue (Nervous Affections, Gouty); Tonsils, Diseases of (Acute Tonsillitis, Caiises); Toxi- cology (Chronic Plumbism, Effect of Gout) ; Trades, Dangerous (Gout and Plumbism) ; Ulceration (Gouty); Unconsciousness (Auto- intoxications, Gout) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Elimination of Nitrogen in Gout); Urticaria (Causes); Veins, Diseases of (Gouty Phlebitis). Introduction.—It has been truly said that if a sprightly writer wished to make fun of the medical profession, nothing would give him a better opportunity for the exercise of his sarcasm than the extreme variety and the very opposite chai'acter of the regime which this, that, and the other medical authority have laid down for the dietetic treatment of the gouty state. Some recommend a diet mainly vegetarian in character, others find salvation in meat and hot water, and, apart from these two extremes, when we have regard to the numerous articles of food and drink in daily use, we find very few that are not as stringently forbidden by some writers as they are highly commended by others. The reason for this is readily found in our ignorance of the exact nature of the disease. After ages of inquiry we know gout only by the order and character of its phenomena, and have yet to learn its intimate nature or the special cause which produces it. We know so very few definitely established facts of importance in the etiology of the disease that a doubting prac- titioner may well be pardoned when he asks if we know any. But, in proportion as the facts are few, the hypotheses are numerous, and the too ready acceptance of conclusions, lacking- confirmation in generally accepted facts, has been responsible in great measure for retarding our knowledge of the disease. As we cannot yet give the physiological history of gout, we should adopt a pathology founded solely on facts unalloyed by hypotheses, and conformable to all that we know of the physiology of animal life. In the course of our inquiry as to the appropriate treatment it cannot fail to be remarked how much this treatment is dependent on the same genei'al principles which gviide us in other diseases, and how little con- sideration it admits for the special nature or character of gout. There are two points that should ever be before those who work or write on this subject. All clinical experience teaches us that we are dealing with a constitutional disease whose natural history includes a liability to rapid and apparently inexplicable variations, often fortunately of the nature of amelioration or complete disappearance of symptoms. If these natural variations occur coincidently with the use of some supposed therapeutic measure, medicinal or otherwise, there is a risk of the observer wrongfully ascribing the benefit to the therapeutic agent employed, when it is in reality due to the self-righting power of nature. He becomes what Sir W. Roberts aptly termed the victim of misinterpreted sequences. Another fruitful source of error is the laboratory. Only