113 EMETICS than itself, as vomiting produced by smells, tastes, ideas, and in some cases from cerebral disease. Drugs acting on the different organs, mouth, pharynx, oesopliagus, stomach and intestines, on the biliary and renal passages, kidney, peri- toneum and uterus, or on their centres, might be considered as emetics. It is usual, liowever, in describing emetics only to consider those which do so either directly by acting on the stomach or on the centre in the medulla. The term indi7-ect emetic is applied to those that produce vomiting by their action on the vomiting centre without being taken into the stomach. Such are ipeca- cuanha, apomorphine, tartar emetic, senegfe, and squill. The direct emetic is one that causes vomiting reflexly because they are applied to the stomach, e.f/. the sulphates of zinc, copper, alum, carbonate of ammonium, salt, mustard, warm water, chamomile. Tickling the fauces witli a feather may be relied upon to produce reflex vomiting either alone or in combination witii a drug. Some confusion has arisen between the terms direct and indirect emetics ; they are, however, used to denote the connection between the stomach and the drug, and not the drug and the centre of vomiting. Apomorpliine, tartar emetic, and ipecacuanha are very powerful in their action, and are also very depressant. Uses.—Emetics are firstly used to remove the contents of the stomach. If the organ is over- distended and there is a feeling of nausea, or if there is unsuitable food in the stomach, causing irritation and not undergoing proper digestion, as in some cases of dyspepsia and sick headache, a copious draught of lukewarm water, or of mustard and water, is usually all that is re- quired. If the stomach contain a poison, it is well to get rid of it as soon as possible, and to prevent absorption, sulphate of zinc or coppei', or mustard and water, are the best. If the poison should happen to be a powerful gastric intestinal irritant it is preferable to wash out the stomach rather than use an emetic. Secondly, emetics can be used to aid the clearance of the air-passages in children who cannot expectorate well, as in bronchitis or laiyngitis—the usual emetic being ipecacuanha ; but in croup something with a quicker action is wanted, such as sulphate of copper or zinc, and tickling the back of the fauces. If there is much depression, carbonate of ammonium is best, as it is a stimulant as well as an emetic. An emetic may also be useful for the removal of a foreign body impacted in the larynx. So- called "biliousness" is more rapidly relieved by an emetic than by a purgative, as there is no chance of its absorption through the stomach. In ague, if there be much bilious vomiting, an emetic of ipecacuanha or hot water will clear the VOL. Ill stomach and allow of the administration and retention of the quinine. Caution.— Patients suffering from prolapse of uterus or rectum, peritonitis, hernia, aneiuysm, and the like, are not suitable subjects for an emetic on account of the straining. For the same reason caution must be used in administer- ing emetics to sul jjocts with atheromatous vessels and high arterial tension, as the straining may lead to hicmorrhage. Emetina or Emetine.—An alkaloid contained in ipecacuanha root. See Ipecacu- ANHJi Radix. EmetOmania.—^A morbid desire or longing for the use of emetics; the converse of emetophobia, the morbid fear of emetics or emesis. Emig^ration of Leucocytes.—One of tlie phenomena of inflammation, once con- sidered to be the central phenomenon of that morbid process. Some time after the com- mencement of inflammation (two hours in the case of irritants applied to the web of the frog's foot) the leucocytes are seen to be gathering in the peripheral part of the blood stream in the vessels; they then attach themselves to the vessel-walls ; and then by an amoeboid movement they pass through the walls, which they pene- trate by using the spaces between the endo- thelial cells. The leucocytes which chiefly emigrate are the polymorjahonuclears; but others (the lymphocytes, the eosinophiles, and perhaps the large mononuclears) occasionally pass through. The vessels from which the emigration most often proceeds are the venules, but the capillaries occasionally show the same phenomenon, and the arterioles very rarely exhibit it. The cause of leucocyte emigration is probal)ly to be found in chemiotK.ris (q.v.), and the purpose of it is apparently to enable the leucocytes to act more etticaciously as phagocytes, by ingesting and (sometimes) digesting foreign substances such as bacteria. Eminence or Eminentia.—Any prominence, [irojectiou, projecting ridge, or the like, such as the bicipital eminence on the radius (for the attachment of the biceps muscle), the frontal eminence (on the frontal bone), the thenar and hypothenar eminences (on the palm of the hand), the eminentiic mamiUarcs (or cor- pora all)icantia), etc. Emission.—Ejaculation or discharge of a secretion, e.ij. of semen, as in spermatorrhtea, involuntary or nocturnal emissions, etc. Emmenagogues. —'See also Can- THAUIUE8 ; EcBoLics ] Ergot ; .Maxgaxese ; Mexstruation axd its Disorders {Amenor- rhfjen) ; Myrrii ; Phariiacoi.O(}Y ; Purgatives, etc.—A drug which stimulates and regulates 8