47 ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF Trans verse intra - articidar Fracture o f the Capitellum.—The capitelhim may itself ))e frac- tured without involving the external epicondyle, the fragment usually Ijeing completely separated and lying free in the joint. Very much the same canse acts as in the obliqTie variety, viz. fall on the hand with force transmitted through tiie radius. The signs are also similar; the head of the radius appears subluxated; the detached frag- ment may be clearly made out. The movements of full extension and supina- tion are limited and painful. The removal of the separate fragment through an incision on the outer side of the joint between the biceps tendon and the supinator longus forms the only satisfactory treatment. 2. Oblique fracture through tlie articular end separating the trochlear surface is less common than separation of the capitellar surface, and less likely to be troublesome. The displacement is less, and the position of the fragment more easily maintained. As a further complication of this obliqvie fracture is longitudinal splitting of the shaft of the humerus—the T or Y fracture. These are more severe injuries, and not only involve the joint, but are freciuently compound. The lower end of the himaerus is widened transversely, and either fragment can be moved apart from the other and from tiie shaft. The same remarks apply as to treatment. Conservative measures should be adopted if the vessel escape; a subseijuent excision is better than a primary amjjutation. Fracture or Separation of the Epicondyles :— I. Fracture of the internal epicondyle. II. Fracture of the external epicondyle. Of the fractures of the epicondyles separation of the internal epicondyle is by far the more common. In the adult it cannot be said that the line of fracture follows the line of the epijjhysis; whether the shaft is involved or not largely depends upon the cause. Up to the twenty-first year it is otherwise, and may be regarded as a separation of the epicondylar epiphysis. This injury is usually the result of a direct blow on the epicondyle itself, but may be the result of traction, either through the sudden and violent contraction of the muscles, flexors, and pronator (Granger), or through the internal lateral ligament, the result of forcible abduction of tlie forearm (Helferich). Whatever the cause, the separated fragment is almost invariably drawn downwards, and perhaps also slightly forwards and outwards. If the ulnar nerve has escaped primary injury this sitviation of the fragment lessens the chance of a future disturbance of its function. Cases have been recorded, however, where the dis- placed fragment has had to be subsequently removed on account of nerve pressure. The unnatural mobility of the displaced fragment can be readily demonstrated ; there is usually some extravasation of blood into the joint. Union is always filirous and in the position of displacement. No means short of pegging or pinning the fragment have been successful in keeping it in position, and though this is recommended as the only certain line of treatment, there is rarely much permanent ankylosis or limitation of movement if the joint is not kept too long fixed. Passive motion should be practised early between the second and third week. Fracture of the external e^jicondyle alone is very rare. , The same remarks apply to this fracture as I to the other. Fractures of the Radius and Ulna in the I Region of the Elbow-Joint I Fracture of the Olecranon Process. — This I fracture may result from direct violence, forcible \ contraction of the triceps, or from hyper- i extension. The first of these causes is by far the most frequent. The process may be broken at its base or at its apex, though it is most frequently fractured about its centime, where it is narrowest; the usual direction of the fracture is straight across. Up to the age of seventeen the line of fracture may correspond to the line of the epiphysis, practically the apex of the process. The amount of sepai-ation of the fragments depends upon the extent of laceration of the j^eriosteal covering and the latei'al triceps aponeurosis; the more these are torn the greater tlie separation. The diagnosis of this injury is not difficult if seen sufficiently early. The subsequent swelling is usually considerable, so that the gap lietween the fragments may only be felt with difticulty. By approximating the fragments in many cases the gayi can Ije made to disappear and crepitation obtained. Care must be taken not to confuse the crepitation which is sometimes present in an inflamed bursa, or to hurriedly conclude that no fracture exists from the apparent absence of crepitation. The circumstances must be favourable to obtain bony union ; there must be little or no separation of the fragments, which means little or no damage to the periosteum or fibrous aponeurosis. Union is almost invariably fibrous, sometimes one band, sometimes two connecting the frag- ments. The parts should be fixed by an anterior splint, with the elbow fully extended, and the fragments approximated by strapping or by figure-of-eight bandage.