428 GENERAL PARALYSIS apoplectiform seizures may be attended with one-sided convulsions, with rigidity, convulsive movements, turning of the head to one side, and coma lasting for hours. They resemble apoplexies, except in that the condition is temporary, and any paralytic effects usually disappear in the course of a few days. Some- times, however, mental dulness, drowsiness, or excitement follows the apoplectiform attacks, and may persist for days or weeks. Severe seizures may be followed by gradually increas- ing coma, palsy, and death. In fatal seizures associated with hemiplegia the brain may be affected by coarse ■ disease or haemorrhage. Tetaniform and hysteriform attacks also occur occasionally in general paralysis. The temper- ature is subject to irregular fluctuations quite independent of seizures. In maniacal states the temperature may rise slightly. Sometimes also in hypochondriacal forms there may be an evening rise. If excitement is protracted for several days there may be a rise, followed by a fall with the subsidence of the excitement. In some instances the temperature rises to 102° or 103° without any apparent physical cause. Sub- normal temperatures are not common during the stadium acutum, but in the third stage they are relatively frequent. Fluctuations are relatively more frequent in patients with seizures, excitement, or with motor disorders. The circulation and pulse vary considerably, and in some cases indicating a primary cardiac enfeeblement. In maniacal cases with motor excitement the blood-pressure tends to become lowered: in quiet cases, on the other hand, it is raised. In the stadium acutum the pulse rate is relatively more frequent than is the case in the other stages. The alimentary functions are usually active and well sustained throughout the course of the disease. During the early stages there may have been gastro-intestinal troubles, but in the stadium acutum the appetite usually becomes increased ; organic sensations of discomfort seldom occur; sensations, which in the healthy usually indicate the condition of the stomach and intestines, are absent, and the want of knowledge as to whether they have had enough food leads to great increase in bodily weight. Progressive dysphagia is the rule, and is due to defective reflex action, incoordinate action, and later, paresis of the muscles of deglutition. Sometimes swallowing is almost impossible owing to bulbar lesions, or to pharyngeal and laryngeal ansesthesia. The dangers of death from choking are great, and careful attention to proper mincing of food is necessary. The functions of the bladder and rectum become affected as the disease advances. The urine is passed involuntarily or retained, or there may be retention with incontinence due to an overfull bladder. The habits become foul, and the patient requires much personal atten- tion. The sexual power, which may have been much exalted during earlier stages, now becomes impaired, and later lost. The disorders of muscular and motor control are numerous. The lines of expression on the face become obliterated, and there is tremor of the muscles when movements are performed. This tremor is most marked about the muscles of the lips and tongue, and may be finely fibrillar or coarsely ataxic. The speech is diffi- cult, hesitating, blurred, with slurring over labials, sibilants, or dentals. Words are jumbled together, or there is elision of syllables, or a species of stammering. These speech disorders may be due to defects of (1) ideatio7i — either defective memory, or impaired association of ideas; defects of (.2) ay ticulation—ataxic or amnesic ; or defects of (3) phonation—the vocal cords or the physical apparatus serving them being impaired. Other symptoms are common, such as slaver- ing, smacking the lips, sucking movements, grinding the teeth, or constant swallowing. The gait may be ataxic, paretic, spastic, or the attempt to move may call forth trembling of the limbs. In some cases coarse trembling of the whole body occurs, when Romberg's test is attempted. Charcot's dictum that immobility is the finest movement of a soldier is here exemplified, and the co-ordination requisite for immoVjility is defective. Convulsive tremors without pyrexia, athetosis, and choreiform movements are sometimes seen. The reflexes, superficial and deep, vary con- siderably. Exaggeration of knee-jerk is often associated with jerky, tremulous hand grasp, twitching of face, lips, tongue, and limbs, rigidity of proximal muscles of trunk and limbs, seizures, and dementia. Absence of knee-jerk is often associated with coarse ataxic gait, gross disturbances of sensation, cutaneous and articular, with consequent loss of so-called muscular sense, and megalomania. Various vaso-motor symptoms occur, such as capillary congestions over the malar bones, erythematous and sudaminal affections of the skin, bed-sores, tache cerehrale, pimctiforra haemorrhages under the skin after seizures, purpuroid blotches, bruise-like swellings, inde- pendently of any traumatic cause, othtematomata, bullae, eschars, unilateral local sweats, etc. Nutritive and trophic defects are evidenced by alterations in the body weight, dull, earthy, greasy, herpetic, ecthymatous, furfuraceous, or pigmented skin. Herpes zoster is common, and pemphigus parasyphiliticus occurs in the later stages of the stadium acutum. Furuncles and carbuncles appear. Bed-sores occur from pres- sure and excremental irritation, and assume a chronic type, or they may be acute and due to cerebral or spinal lesions, and appearing mostly after seizures. The muscles sometimes undergo progressive