389 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF special symptoms depend on tlie fact that the outflow of bile is readily obstructed ; and thus when situated in the common duct malignant disease gives rise early to jaundice which pro- gressively deepens, the liver gradually increases in size, and the gall-bladder distends, unless previously shrunken as the result of the presence of gall-stones. Infective or even suppurative cholangitis not infrequently supervenes, and gives rise to the symptoms already described. Pain may be present, even though the gall - stones have passed ; but, where none are present, there is as a rule little or no tenderness, but only a feeling of discomfort on deep pressure in the epigastrium. Should the cystic duct be the site of origin of the disease the gall-bladder will distend, but jaundice will not be present to any degree until the growth has by extension invaded the com- mon or hepatic duct, though even in the early stages slight icterus may be noted from a catarrhal condition extending from the stric- ture. Almost invariably gall-stones are present in the gall-bladder or cystic duct, and these may give rise to pain of a paroxysmal character and to tenderness. The hepatic duct is comparatively seldom the first to suffer, but when it does the symptoms will be those due to obstruction of the common duct, but for the fact that of course there will be no distension of the gall-bladder. It should be remembered that obstructive jaundice frequently arises from the extension of malignant disease from neighbouring organs, especially from the head of the pancreas, and while it may be impossible to differentiate the two conditions, as a rule there will be some symptoms pointing to the origin of the disease outside the ducts. The diagnosis may be materially assisted by a careful examination of the urine and ffeces (7). Only in tumour of the cystic duct at or shortly after the onset of the mischief in the common duct can radical treatment by removal of the disease be attempted. Where the hepatic duct is involved, surgical interference is prac- tically of no avail; but when the obstruction is in the common duct, two coui'ses of surgical treatment may be followed with relief to symp- toms. Either cholecystotomy may be performed and a permanent biliary fistula established, or cholecystenterostomy may be done. Should the patient be in fair condition, and the gall-bladder distended or normal in sis^e, the latter alterna- tive should be adopted ; but if he is weak, this operation becomes very dangerous, since it is necessarily more prolonged than a simple chole- cystotomy, and in the event of the gall-bladder being less than its normal size should not be attempted. Too often, however, before the patient comes under the surgeon's care he is so reduced that no operative measures are justifiable, and only remedies directed to the amelioration of his sufferings can be advised. LITERATURE. — 1. Couiivoisier. Bcitraye zur Pathukiyie und Chirunjic dcr Gallcmcege. Leipzig, 1890.—2. E. M. Biiocki;ank. On Gall-stones. Man- chester, 1896.—3. H. D. RoLLESTON. "Carcinoma of large Bile Ducts," Medical Chronicle, Jan. 1896, and Clinical Journal, April 7, 1897.—4. Mignot. Archives rjen^ralcs de ?/ierffC27ie, Aug. 1898.—5.CH1USTI..VN Fengek. "Stones in the Common Duct and their Surgical Treatment," American Journal of Medical Science, Feb. and Mar. 1896.—6. Complete references will be found in Diseases of the Gall-bladder and Bile Ducts, by A. W. Mayo Robson, .3rd edition, 1904.—7. A. W. Mayo RoBsoN. Edinburgh Med. Jou7-n., Dec. 1905.—8. Idem. " Hunterian Lectures on Diseases of the Pan- creas," Lancet, March 19 and 26 and April 2, 1904.— 9. Idem. "Indications for Removal of the Gall- bladder," Brit. Med. Journ., 1906.-10. Idem. "A Series of 123 Cases of Choledochotomy for Calculi in the Conuiion Duct," Medico - Chirurgical Trans., vol. Ixxxviii. —11. Idem. "Modifications and Im- provements in Operations on the Biliary Passages," Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 24, 1903. Galloping^ Consumptioin. See Lung, Tuberculosis of [Clinical Varieties awl Progress, Acute). GaliOp Rhythm. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Symptomatolofiy, Muscle Failure, BrvAt de Galo}')). GallSd—Excrescences on Quercus infectoria caused by the eggs of Cynips gallw tinctorice. They occur as small, hard, round, tuberculated masses of a dark green colour. They contain 60-70 per cent tannic acid, and 2-5 per cent of gallic acid. Preparations—1. Unquentum Gallas; 2. Unquentum Gallae cum Opio. The astringent action of galls is entirely due to the presence of tannic acid (q.v.). The ointment of galls and opium is an excellent remedy for inflamed or painful hfomorrhoids. Ga.li-stones. See Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts. Ga.lton'S La.W.—The law of ancestral inheritance : " tlie two parents between them contribute on the average one - half of each inherited faculty, each of them contributing one-quarter of it; the four grandparents con- tribute between them one-quarter, or each of them one-sixteenth," and so on in an infinite series, in which each term is equal to the sum of all those that follow. See Heredity. Galtort's Method of Identifica- tion.— 'I'lie finger-print system. See An- thropometry ; Medicine, Forensic (Identity). Galton's Ventilating Fire- place.-—A method by which an open fire is utilised for heating the fresh air which enters the room ; the entering air passes over the back portion of the fireplace (where it is heated) and up a special shaft (not communi-