374 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF gall-bladder various species of bacteria specially attenuated by cultivation in media containing increasing proportions of bile. It may, there- fore, for practical purposes, be taken as proved that gall-stones owe their origin to a bacterial invasion of the bile channels, giving rise to a catarrh of the mucous membrane and a de- position of that portion of the cholesterin secreted which is in excess of what the bile salts are able to hold in solution. The mere presence of this deposit will, of course, keep up the catarrh even should no further microbic infection take place. While this is so it is necessary that we should consider several conditions which seem to pre- dispose to cholelithiasis. Of these the most important is the character of the food. There seems to be little doubt that the ingestion of excess of carbohydrates as compared with nitrogenous food is a fairly common precursor of the onset of gall-stones. While this may be due to the fact that, with a diminution in the amount of albuminous material consumed, there is a corresponding deficiency in the bile salts which dissolve cholesterin, it seems more probable that it is associated with an increased tendency to catarrh of the stomach and duodenum from a greater liability to abnormal fermentation in the stomach. Normal gastric juice seems to kill most disease-producing bacteria, and it seems probable that any alteration of the contents of the stomach and duodenum would tend to increase the risk of the introduction of microbes from the bowel into the common duct. Gall-stones may occur at any age from infancy upward, but they are distinctly more prevalent in the later decades of life. Why this should be so is not on the surface quite apparent; but it has been suggested that the reason for biliary calculi being found more frequently in autopsies on elderly subjects is that the walls of the bile passages undergo great atrophy in old age, and are consequently unable to expel any small concretions which form. Sedentary habits, from whatever cause arising, appear undoubtedly to predispose to chole- lithiasis. Lack of sufficient exercise, besides affecting prejudicially the general tone of the tissues, is not infrequently associated with dyspepsia and gastro-intestinal disturbance, and it is possible this is the explanation of the coincidence. It is probable, also, that defective respiratory movement and absence of contraction of the abdominal muscles tend to help toward more or less stagnation of the bile in the gall- bladder and bile passages. It has been found that if the bacillus coli be injected into the gall- bladder of a dog after the common duct has been ligatured, an acute cholecystitis develops, whereas if the ducts are free no bad symptoms appear. Similarly the stagnation of bile con- sequent on deficient exercise may tend toward the more ready origin and propagation of a catarrh of the ducts. Gall-stones occur much more frequently in women than in men—in the proportion of about 3-5 to 1. This is probably associated with their taking less exercise, but it is possible that the habit of wearing corsets, which depress the fundus of the gall-bladder, and so impede the flow of bile from it, helps as an etiological factor. Symptoms.—The symptoms caused by gall- stones vary greatly in different cases. It is probable that this is in the main due to the locality in which they are situated and to the presence or absence of complications. In this section only imcomplicated chole- lithiasis will be considered, the complications being relegated to a later chapter—a method which, though pathologically somewhat illogical, is clinically convenient. (a) Gall-stones in the Gall-bladder.—Though most frequently found in the gall-bladder, it is a mistake to suppose that all biliary calculi originate there. So long as they remain in the gall-bladder it is probable that they give rise to no special symptoms, except possibly some sense of slight uneasiness and discomfort in the epigastrium, and some tenderness below the right costal margin, unless the inflammatory condition, which gave rise to their formation and which is perpetuated by their presence, has spread to the peritoneal covering of the cyst. (6) Gall-stones in the Cystic Duct.—When a calculus reaches the cystic duct there is sooner or later some symptom of its presence. A typical attack of gall-stone colic, when the stone is lodged in or extruded into the cystic duct, consists of very severe pain beginning under the right costal margin, and radiating thence toward the epigastrium and umbilicus, and round the right side, usually toward the subscapular region, but occasionally even to the right shoulder. The onset of pain is often apparently without any determining factor, though in some patients it will be found usually to occur after taking food. Its duration varies very considerably in different patients, and at different times in the same patient. Not infrequently it ends with the onset of vomiting. In a severe seizure there is very great collapse, so that the con- dition may closely simulate angina pectoris, perforation of a gastric ulcer, or other grave abdominal catastrophe, and death has on more than one occasion resulted from the severity of the pain. The vomiting may persist after the pain has quite ceased, and the stomach may continue irritable for days after, so that the ingestion even of liquid food brings on another attack of vomiting, and resort has to be had to rectal alimentation. If the common duct is free, some bile will usually be ejected after the contents of the stomach have come away.