FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF 272 recorded cases and experiments which go to prove that lesions of the root of the fifth cause loss of taste, and especially is there strong evi- dence with regard to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. But on the other hand it is difficult to explain many contradictory statements as to the branch or branches of the iifth which convey taste fibi'es. There is loss of taste with a lesion of the first and second divisions only, while with no loss of taste sensations there have been either (1) a lesion of the third division only, or (2) the first and second divisions only. So far, however, taste sensations are obviously carried by the second or third branch of the fifth, or perhaps both, and the taste fibres are unquestionably present in the root of the nerve, although it is probable that the glosso-pharyngeal fibres may pass into the roots of that nerve, or as stated above by Jacobson's nerve join the third division of the fifth. Once the taste fibres have reached the pons there is much doubt as to their future course, they certainly decussate, and they probably pass to the taste centre, believed to be situated at the tip of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Loss of taste may occur as a part of hemi- anaesthesia in a lesion of the internal capsule or brain, but it is more complete and certainly more definitely limited when the lesion is one of the nerve or nerves conveying gustatory fibres. Hysteria may be responsible for loss of taste, but in it, as in some cases of hemiansesthesia, there is less definiteness than a peripheral lesion gives, and the abnormality is not infrequently rather limited to want of true perception of certain taste impressions while others are retained intact, than to absolute ageusia. It may not be amiss to refer here to perversion of taste and other functional abnormalities, and in concluding this section to describe the close relationships of smell and taste. Hypersensitiveness for taste sensations, or hypergeusia as it is called, may be the result of irritation of gustatory nerve-fibres. Such hyper- geusia has been induced by aural disease, probably as the result of stimiilation of the chorda tympani nerve, and generally such taste impressions are of an unpleasant character. It is also certain that changes in the mucous membrane in which the taste bulbs are situated may be responsible for both partial loss of taste and hypergeusia. Certainly in hysteria it seems most probable that as the pharynx is often anaesthetic, the local functional changes may include local inter- ference with taste perception. Parageusia, or perversion of taste, is by no means uncommon in hysteria and in insanity, but it must in most if not all these cases be placed in the category of delusions, and therefore hardly demands further discussion here. Occa- sionally the aura of an epileptic seizure is gusta- tory, and may be either a powerful taste percep- tion of some ordinary kind, indicating that the producing factor must be powerful irritation of the cells in the cerebral taste centre, less likely the gustatory nerve-fibres, or not infrequently^ the aura belongs to the order of totally ab- normal taste impressions. It has for many years been recognised that the senses of smell and taste are closely associ- ated together, and many of the sensations which we are in the habit of calling taste impressions are in reality appreciated by the olfactory sense. Thus the enjoyment afforded by the aroma of a good vintage port, or the flavouring agent in any savoury dish, is almost entirely dependent upon our sense of smell ; and where smell is lost, all such perception is lost with it; while on the other hand, sweetness, saltness, sourness, and bitterness may still in a case of this kind be appreciated by the sense of taste. Atrophic rhinitis, occlusion of the nose or olfactory clefts, are common causes of anosmia, and in such cases taste must suffer. It is a frequent experience in practice to find patients who have lost their sense of smell complaining of greatly impaired enjoyment of the pleasures of the table. In one case which the author can recall to memory, as the result of atrophic rhinitis and consequent anosmia, so vitiated was the taste perception, that highly-tainted fish was eaten with relish, the patient in no way being sensible of its objectionable qualities. It is important to remember that where anosmia has been of long standing, from what- ever cause it may arise, recovery is extremely improbable. » It is unnecessary to add any further remarks with regard to prognosis or diagnosis. The treatment of an affection of taste implies removal of the causal agent if possible. In some cases galvanism has been recommended, one elec- trode being placed behind the mastoid process, and the other, a flat plate of metal, being applied to the tongue, but such treatment is only likely to be beneficial in a very limited number of cases. Spasm op the Muscles of Mastication These spasms may be tonic or clonic, and are generally rather symptomatic than constituting in themselves a separate disease. Tonic spasms occur in tetanus, where the lower jaw may be absolutely rigid, and the muscular contraction so excessive as to be pain- ful. Tonic spasms may also occur in severe cases of tetany and in hysteria. Tonic spasm is not very uncommon as the result of the irrita- tion of first dentition or caries of a tooth, and specially, it is said, the last molar may cause the condition in both the infant and the adult. Pontine tumours, hsemorrhages, or areas of softening occasionally induce very persistent and distressing spasm, apparently from irrita- I tion of the cells constituting the motor nucleus