430 GENERAL PARALYSIS seizures, alterations in the habits mental and physical, form a clinical picture sufficient to justify a diagnosis. It is seldom that the disease can be diagnosed from one symptom alone; in fact it is often only when the mental and physical signs form a definite clinical tout ensemble that the nature of the disease is evident. Much information can be obtained from the patient's friends as to alterations in his habits or modes of life. Before making a diagnosis the greatest care should be taken to ascertain whether alcohol has been a causal factor. Prognosis.—The result of the disease is inevitable, but its course is variable. In some rare instances the disease becomes ari'ested, and the condition may remain stationary for many years. Undoubtedly general paralytics live longer in asylums than in their own homes. The relation of fits to the course of the disease is often interesting. Sometimes the seizures hasten the progi'ess, or, on the other hand, they may cause an arrest or even remission. Some of the most rapid cases have had no seizures at all, and it is also noteworthy that fits of slight severity are sometimes associated with rapid progress of the disease. During the later months much will depend upon the amount of personal attention paid to the organic and nutritive functions. Treatment.—Some cases of simple progressive dementia may be treated at home under suit- able nursing and supervision. When there is excitement, marked depression, or certifiable delusions, however, it is advisable to send the patient to an asylum. Change of air or sea voyages are seldom beneficial. A simple life, with plenty of sleep and rest, moderate exercise, plain food, and attention to the bodily functions, are all that can be advised for many cases. Medicine and surgery can avail but little in staying the progress of the disease. For sleep- lessness, paraldehyde in drachm doses proves of most service. Generation, Female Orgrans of. The Osseous Pelvis . 430 Diameters Planes Differences of Age, Sex, Race The Ligamentous Pelvis . 434 The Ovaries .... . 434 The Fallopian Tubes . 436 The Parovarium . 437 The Uterus and Ligaments . . 437 Vagina ..... . 440 External Generative Organs . 441 Muscular and Connective Tissues in Pelvis .... . 443 The Pelvic Floor . . 443 The Bladder and Rectum . 445 Arrested Developments of . . 445 See also Acromegaly {Symptoms, Generative Organs); Embryology ; Fallopian Tubes ; Labour ; Menstruation ; Ovaries ; Pregnancy ; Puerperium ; Teratology ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Vulva. The Female Generative Apparutus consists of the Internal Genitals, including the Uterus, Ovaries, Fallopian Tubes, and Parovarium, whicli lie within the Pelvis; the external Genitals, which are situated in the interfemoral space ; and the Intermediate Organ, the Vagina, which connects together the Internal and the External Organs. The internal organs mainly rest on the inner aspect of the musculo-mem- branous diaphragm, which constitutes the pelvic floor; the external organs lie on its outer aspect; while the intermediate organ divides the floor into two segments, an anterior and a posterior. So closely are all these structures associated, that it is found to be convenient to consider the pelvis, osseous, ligamentous, mus- cular, and membranous, along with the organs of generation in the strict sense of the term. The Osseous Pelvis.—(1) Constituent Parts. —-The osseous pelvis is composed of four bones : a pair, the ossa innominata, and two single bones, the sacrum and coccyx. The innominate bones, with the assistance of the soft structures of the anterior abdominal wall, form the lateral and anterior walls of the pelvis ; the sacrum and coccyx make up the posterior wall ; in its osseous state the pelvis (or bason) is without a floor; this is supplied by the soft parts of the pelvic floor. Each of these four bones is com- posite, and was originally developed from several parts, which later on fused into one. Each OS innominatum consists of three parts: an uj^per or iliac, an inferior or ischial, and an anterior or pubic, and these meet at the aceta- bulum, and become fused about the period of puberty ; the sacrum consists of five segments, really five vertebrfe, and these fuse a year or two later than the parts of the os innominatum ; and the coccyx consists of four or five portions, really aborted vertebne, which do not entirely fuse till late in reproductive life (thirty-five to forty years). About the same age, or later, the coccyx becomes firmly anchylosed to the sacrum, so that there is then one bone, sacrum-coccyx; up to this time the coccyx, which normally is directed forwards, can be pushed backwards, a movement known as retropulsion. The sacrum is jointed to the two innominate bones at the sacro-iliac joints or sychondroses, while the innominate bones meet by means of their pubic portions at the symphysis pubis. The whole pelvis is articulated to the lumbar part of the spine at the saci'o-vertebral joint, where the upper part of the sacrum projects distinctly forwards in the promontory, while it is attached to the lower limbs at the acetabula or cotyloid cavities.