GOUT 488 the animals so affected died all the sooner if they were treated with piperazin. The administration of oxalic acid and its salts, corrosive sublimate, acetone, and other substances, also induced these appearances of avian gout, although in a milder form. With regard to dogs and rabbits, it was observed that the subcutaneous injection of sugar did not produce a similar result. In 1898 Minkowski, by feeding dogs with adenin, a substance closely allied to uric acid, induced a deposit of urate of soda in the kidneys. His observation is a suggestive one, and a con- firmation and extension of this line of inquiry is desirable. At present, however, the difficulties in the way of procuring adenin are almost insuperable. The most recent and probably the most inter- esting experiments yet recorded are those of Kionka (1900). After a preliminary reference to the occurrence of avian gout in fowls, ostriches, and birds of prey, he goes on to describe his own experiments. These consisted in feeding full-grown fowls on a diet of minced horse flesh (freed of fat and gristle) and water. He found that after a period of three to five months a disease developed which gradually assumed the characters of real gout. Several types of disease were observed. Some fowls exhibited a more rapid form of the disease, characterised by weakness of the lower limbs, loss of appetite, unsteady gait, and swelling of the joints, these symptoms being aggravated at intervals in a manner suggesting acute attacks. Death occurred eventually from exhaustion. On post-mortem examination the joints were swollen, oedematous, and showed deposits of urates. These deposits were found to be more pronounced in the more chronic cases, in which the attacks had not been so manifest, and where the most marked features were the development of tophi in the joints and webs of the feet. In other cases the features of visceral gout were mani- fested, uratic deposits being present in the serous membranes of the intestine, and uric acid infarcts in the kidne}''. In all the cases the usual appearances post-mortem were those of gouty kidney. From some points of view it is unfortunate that a more detailed account of the histological characters of the organs and tissues affected, and a fuller record of the end products of meta- bolism, are not given in this interesting paper. This line of inquiry is one of great interest, and as it is important that the observations be repeated and extended, I have ari'anged to do so, and am at present engaged with it. At the present time, after nearly two months' treat- ment, the fowls under observation are not obviously gouty, although there are indications that some of them are not in perfect health. The results of the investigation will be described in the article " Uric Acid." Gout is usually described, although in rather vague terms, as one of the rarer diseases of a poultry yard. I have taken some pains to obtain information from the leading poultry experts in this country, but cannot get un- equivocal evidence in reply. One expert writes : " A swollen condition of the feet, attended with heat, to which fowls are liable, has been wrongly described as gout. Such a condition is simply due to congestion of the blood-vessels consequent on a plethoric state of the system, and birds in confined runs, when exercise is limited, or practi- cally prevented, are very susceptible to stagnant circulation in the limbs and feet, which produces these supposed gouty symptoms." On the other hand, another writes :— " This {i.e. gout) is rather liable to be mistaken for leg weakness, but may be distinguished by the legs and feet feeling hot, with evident swell- ing, and a more or less inflamed appearance. It is chiefly found in Asiatic breeds. The bird should be removed to a dry warm place, and given a dose of jalap or calomel to open the bowels, after which a half-grain pill of exti'act of colchicum should be administered twice a day. The legs and joints may be well rubbed with sweet oil daily with benefit." Other references bear out this latter statement. I make no apology for entering so fully into this matter, as it is one of practical importance, especially as the reader may have opportunities of testing the accuracy of these statements, and so add to our knowledge of the subject. Acute Gout.—The manner of onset, course, and subsequent history of acute gout varies within such wide limits that no description, however detailed, can be made applicable to each individual case. Peculiarity of constitu- tion, whether hereditary or acquired, continually varies the aspect of the disease, the natural course of which is doubtless also imdergoing invisible yet none the less important modification under the influence of improved hygiene, greater muscular activity, and the slightly improved habits of eating and drinking of the present day compared with those obtaining in the past. With regard to a description of the acute attack I cannot do better than give Sydenham's graphic description, based as it is on direct personal knowledge of the disease as well as on extensive clinical experience otherwise. This description is minute and accurate even at the present day, it is historically of great interest, and the little admixture of theory shown in the reference to digestion and dispersion of the peccant matter does not deduct from the value of his clear and interesting record :—■ " Suddenly and with scarcely any premonitory feelings the disease breaks out. Its only fore- runner is indigestion and crudity of the stomach, which troubles the patient for some weeks previous to the acute attack. His body also feels swollen, heavy and windy, symptoms which