245 FALOADINA Fa.ica,Clina.. See Venereal Disease (S///t/u'/is, A Hid I I)isease>f). Falling: Sickness. *SVe Epilepsy. Fallopian Tubes. Injuries ...... 246 Malformations ..... 24G Diseases—- Atrophy and Hypertrophy . . 246 Patency—Foreign Bodies . . . 246 Hernia 246 Inflammation ..... 246 Varieties. . . . . .246 S^/mptoms and Diaf/nosis . . . 250 Treatment ..... 251 Tuberculosis ..... 252 Echinococcus . . . . .253 Tumours ...... 254 Solid 254 Cystic and Dermoid . . . 254 Malignant ..... 254 See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis (Fallopian Tubes); Broad Ligament, Diseases OF; Colic {Diagnosis, Fallopian Tube Colic) ; (iBNERATION, FeMALB OrGANS OF (Fallopiail Tubes); Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Ovaries, Diseases of the ; Post - Mortem Methods (Abdominal Pelvis, Fallopnan Tubes); Sterility (Causes); Uterus, Malformations op the (Rudimentary Fcdkjpian Tubes). Anatomy of the Fallopian Tubes.—The tubes are developed from Midler's ducts, and are therefore to be classed with the uterus. The outer extremity of each duct splits and opens into the peritoneal cavity, so as to form the ostium. The inner limits of the tube are at the corresponding uterine corner, the tubal canal passing through the uterine walls to open into the uterine cavity. There is occasionally a diverticulum in this " interstitial " portion of tile Fallopian tube. Between the corner and the outer third of the tube is its "isthmus," wliilst the outer third itself forms the "am- pulla." These three terms are much used in reference to tubal gestation. The broad ligament is reflected over the upper border of the tube so as to make a true mesentery ("mesosalpinx," see "Broad Liga- ment, Diseases of"). The peritoneum forms tlie serous coat of the tube, but does not invest it inferiorly, so that the muscular coat comes in contact with the connective tissue in the mesosalpinx. Hence in tubal pregnancy the ftetal sac may rupture into the tissue without tearing through the peritoneum. The middle coat of the tube is made up of plain muscle- cells, circular in its deeper and longitudinal in its outer layers. These layei's are well and regularly developed in health}^ young women, whilst in chronic inflanmiation, with or withotit obstruction, they sometimes undergo partial and very irregular hypertrophy. When a foetus develops in the tube the muscular coat never undergoes the uniform evolution which occurs in the uterine walls in normal pregnancy ; it always thins and yields, or else expels its con- tents very early. The inner coat of the tube is its mucous membrane; there is a consideral)le amount of submucous connective tissue with large vessels, and sometimes a little fat. The mucous membrane is raised' into numerous longitudinal folds or "plicte," often bifid. They end by protruding at the " ostium" as the " fimbriaj " ; one fimbria, the " ovariam," runs on to the ovary. The epithelium is columnar and ciliated. Physiology of the Fallopjian Tubes.—The cilia of the tubal epithelium wave from the ostium towards the uterus, and it must be remembered that the cilia of the uterine epithelium wave in the same direction, that is, from the fundus towards the cervix (Hofmeier, Mandl), contrary to what was once thought. Authorities arc not quite sure as to the precise changes which occur in the tube throughout the menstrual cycle. The development of traces of decidual tissue under the mucosa in pregnancy seems to be an abnormal or pathological condition; Clarence Webster holds that it is the immediate cause of tubal pregnancy, the impregnated ovum settling on the abnormal decidua, and developing as in the uterus. The tube certainly transmits the ovum. The theory that the ovum is never normally im- pregnated until it has left the tube and enters the uterus seems based on an assumption. Spermatozoa enter the tube normally ; indeed they have been found in the human Fallopian tube. The downward movement of the cilia do not prevent them from passing iip the tube. Impregnation, it would appear, may take place at any point between the ovary and the uterus. The oosperm or impregnated ovum may settle on any point of a perfectly healthy tubal mucosa; putting aside the decidua question, noted above, as unsettled, the theory that the oosperm, arrested in the tube, cannot develop except where the epithelium has been destroyed by inflammation (Lawson - Tait) is an error. Pregnancy may occur in an imperfectly de- veloped uterine cornu, bearing of necessity a Fallopian tube with a normal canal, but cut off from the canal of the cervix. It is clear that in that case the impregnating sperm-cell must have passed along the cavity of the opposite cornu, and then entered the opposite tube and impregnated an ovum in the opposite ovary (transmigration of ovum), or some believe that the sperm-cell may reach the ovary on the side of the undeveloped cornu, and manage to im- pregnate one of its ova. This idea seems very theoretical. For further information on ab- normal impregnation the articles on " Mal- formation of the Uterus" and " p]xtra-uterine Pregnancy " should be con.sulted.