FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF 312 small; the fluid it contains is the liqi(or amnii. The body - folds (somato- and splanchno- pleure) now grow over towards the ventral surface, thus pinching off the embryo from the remainder of the blastodermic vesicle. The effect of this change is to carry the line of origin of the amniotic folds, at first dorsal in position, farther and farther over to the ventral surface of the embryo; and as the ccelom be- comes closed by union of the body-folds in the middle line, the amnion comes to be continuous with the body of the embryo at one point only, which is the last to close, viz. the umbilicus. It will be seen that the effect of tlie develop- <^77i^. does not form an expanded vesicle outside the body. It lies in a band of somato-pleure tissue which passes from the ventral aspect of the caudal extremity of the embryo to the wall of the vesicle where it is continuous with the chorion. This structure His named the ventral stalk. It carries vessels from the posterior end of the primitive aorta to the chorion, and these vessels may be detected at a period before the allantois has been formed. At first springing from the caudal extremity, its point of origin gradually approaches the centre of the body, the change in relation being due to the develop- ment of the pelvis and lower limbs behind it. The umbilical vesicle, which in man is small ment of the amnion and chorion is to isolate the embryo in the interior of the blastodermic vesicle. Direct communication with the peri- phery is, however, maintained by the develop- ment of the structure known as the umbilical cord. Important observations have been made upon the development of this structure in the human species by His. Among the lower mammals the allantois plays an important part in the development of the cord, and to His belongs the credit of ilrst pointing out the differences to be foimd in man. In mammals generally the allantois grows out from the hinder end of the primitive gut, forming a bladder-like structure of considerable size out- side the body, known as the allantoic vesicle. Over this structure vessels pass to the chorion. In man, however, the allantois is much less im- portant, forming a narrow canal which never grows out far enough to reach the chorion, and and unimportant, with its omj^halo-mesenteric duct, also fuses with the ventral stalk, and thus becomes one of the constituent structures of the cord. Finally, as the line of origin of the amnion is carried over to the ventral aspect of the embryo, the cord receives a covering from this membrane also. By some observers, how- ever, the epithelial covering of the cord is regarded as modified foetal skin (Minot). The portion of the allantois within the abdominal cavity forms the bladder and urachus. Up to this period we have been obliged to rely entirely upon facts observed in the develop- ment of lower animals. There is good reason to believe, however, that the stage at which we have now arrived is reached in the human embryo at the end of the first week of develop- ment. This statement is based upon recent observations by Leopold, which will be referred to more fully later on. The embryo now lies