383 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF When the inflammatory disturbance implicates the peritoneum there come the usual symptoms of local peritonitis, viz. localised abdominal dis- tension, with tenderness, and it may be vomiting. The pulse tends to increase in frequency and to lose in strength, the patient ultimately assum- ing the typhoid condition with dry tongue, shrunken features, rapid weak pulse, and great prostration. In two cases of generalised suppuration in the liver (without any pulmonarj' complication) recently seen, the much greater proportional increase in the rate of respirations as compared with that of the jndse was a noteworthy feature, in each case the pulse-rate having gone up only 50 per cent, while the respirations had doubled in number. Occasionally the disease pursues a subacute course, and then may end in a localised hepatic abscess, but this is extremely rare. Death usually takes place from exhaustion, but may be accelerated by the occurrence of various complications, of which the commonest seem to be pyixsmic abscesses, pleurisy, pneu- monia, and infective endocarditis. l\yle])hk!bitis pursues a similar course, and it may not be possible to distinguish it from an attack of suppurative cholangitis unless there be a definite history pointing to the existence of some focus of supj^uration in the parts drained by the portal vein. In the earlier stages where the diagnosis is not clear the patient should be given 5 grs. of calomel, followed by a seidlitz powder, and local warm applications should be used, while if the pain is extreme it will be necessary to give sedatives; but whenever the case is made out clearly to be one of suppuration in connection with the bile passages, ojjeration should be re- sorted to, since it is only in the early stages that one can reasonably hope for complete recovery. As a rule it will be advisable only to attempt to give exit to the inflammatory products, and to establish drainage by performing cholecysto- tomy, leaving the cause to be removed at a later time. But if the patient be in fair condition, and the exciting cause of the malad^^ can readily be reached, that should be got away at the same time. If performed early, the relief to tension and the evacuation of the septic contents of the gall-bladder and bile ducts should give a very fair probability of complete cure, but even in the later stages, vuiless indeed the patient is moribund, it is well to seek relief by drainage, as some cases that appeared almost hopeless have recovered, and in any case the symptoms will be ameliorated. Drainage should be kept up till the discharge becomes sterile. Adhesions Among the most distressing scquehe of gall- stones, when these have been present for a long- time, are the results which follow on the con- traction of inflammatory adhesions to neigh- bouring viscera. The organ which is most frequently involved is the stomach, as the proximity of the duodeniuii and pylorus to the cystic duct renders it specially liable to suffer. Usually the pylorus itself is tucked up closely to the cystic duct by adhesions, often so short as to render it a matter of extreme difficulty to separate the two without perforation of either viscus ; but, not infrequently, there is merely some kinking of the pyloric extremity of the stomach or of the duodenum by adhesions to the gall-bladder or cystic duct. Less commonly the whole, or part, of the lesser curvature of the stomach becomes ad- herent to the under surface of the liver. Whichever of these conditions is present, there follows the whole series of symptoms which arise when, from any cause, the stomach is luiable to empty its contents into the duo- denum within the normal time. When the stomach wall over a considerable area is adherent to the liver, but there is little or no implication of the pylorus, the symptoms will only amount to some degree of dyspepsia and a feeling of discomfort in the epigastrium, coming on shortly after food and lasting for several hours, since there is no actual obstruction to the outflow from the stomach, but only inter- ference with the peristaltic wave. When, how- ever, the pylorus becomes constricted bv surrounding adhesions, or the exit from the stomach is obstructed by kinking, there follows dilatation of the stomach, giving rise to the well-known symptoms of that disorder which will prove most intractable to ordinary medical remedies, and even to lavage. If left imtreated 1-iy operation this condition exhibits no tendency to improve ; but, as a rule, despite the most careful and continued treatment, the condition of the patient becomes progressivel}^ worse, the stomach dilating so as to reach almost to the pubes, A'omiting, even after liquid food, taking place after each meal, and the patient becoming- worn out from the combined efl'ect of defective nutrition and continued pain. The frequency of this condition is not yet qinte realised by most practitioners, though those who see much of gall-stone work must have noted the large proportion of cases in which it occurs to such an extent as to be readily diagnosed, before opera- tion, by the usual physical signs of dilatation of the stomach. It should be noted that, when the pylorus is adherent to the cystic duct, and there are biliary calculi in the duct or gall-bladdei', tlie pain of a cholelithic seizure may radiate to the left subscapular region instead of to the right. Less commonly, but still not infrequently, the colon is obstructed to a greater or less degree by the jiresence of short adhesions to