469 GLAUCOMA ultimately becomes opaque, sometimes conspicu- ously white or yellow. Pain is apt to continue or to recur from time to time, and it is for this that the patient seeks relief. Subjective visual sensations may delude the patient into hoping for some recovery of sight. If the glaucoma have been chronic throughout, without pain or congestion, the appearance of the eye may be nearly normal even in the absolute stage, but the high tension, and the excavation of the disc, at once reveal the cause of the blindness. Sooner or later, however, such an eye is apt to suffer attacks of pain and congestion which demand relief, and this relief can l^e given more speedily and certainly by removal of the eye than in any other way. The last stage of glaiicoma is marked by gradual thinning and extension of the wall of the eye, commonly in the region of the ecpuitor, sometimes in the ciliary zone. Rupture of the globe occasionally completes tiie destructive process. Secondary Glaucoma.—The varieties of second- ary glaucoma need not be further desci'ibed The diseases of the eye which are liable to this complication have been enumerated. Increase of tension is the essential sign of its onset. Vascular injection, pain, and impairment of vision, if already present, are aggravated by the access of high pressure in the eye. The pupil, if it be free, dilates. The field of vision, if not already lost, contracts. The optic disc in course of time suffers excavation, though this latter change is commonly hidden from observation in the living eye, and discoverable only after the eye has been removed. Treatment. — The successful treatment of glaucoma depends essentially upon lowering the increased pressure within the eye, and the measures by which this can be effected must be employed in the earlier stages of the disease if permanent loss of sight is to be avoided. When the eye is blind, treatment can avail nothing beyond the relief of pain or the removal of disfigurement, and in most cases these ends are attainable more certainly, speedily, and safely by complete removal of the useless organ than in any other way. Glaucoma usually calls for operative treat- ment, for it is seldom jjossible, otherwise than by operation, to re-establish a permanent and sufficient outlet for the intra-ocular fluid. There are many cases, however, in which certain auxiliary lines of treatment are of great value, and there are a few in which benefit of long din-ation may be obtained by these means alone. It is chiefly primary glaucoma which we have here to consider. Myotics.—Drugs which contract the pu])il, of which those chiefly used are physostigmine (eserine) and pilocarpine, sometimes rapidly relieve the high tension. They are the an- tagonists of atropine, which dilates the pupil and, where predisposing conditions exist, induces or aggravates high tension. It is to be noted that neither myotics nor mydriatics cause any decided change of tension in normal eyes. Their action in relation to glaucoma appears to depend mainly on the abnormal position of the iris. Eserine and pilocarpine, by contracting the sphincter of the pupil, attenuate the iris, flatten out its folds, and pull upon its peripheral inser- tion. These changes tend to reopen the filtra- tion angle when it is narrowed or compressed. Accordingly, it is chiefly in the comparatively mild attacks which come and go in the early stage of the disease that we can rely upon their action. In severe acute attacks they may be very useful if used without delay, but in these cases the iris base is firmly compressed, it forms adhesions early, and the sphincter of the pupil soon loses its contractility; hence the stage in which myotics can relieve these violent attacks is soon at an end. In chronic non-congestive glaucoma some lowering of tension may be obtainable over a considerable period of time by a continued use of eserine or pilocarpine, but the impi-ovement is seldom great or perma- nent. Of these two drugs, if used in equal quantity, eserine is much the more active and the more irritating ; a one-half per cent solution of sulphate of eserine in distilled water (roughly two grains to one ounce) is amply strong enough for any purpose, and in most cases a much weaker solution is better. A one or two per cent solu- tion of nitrate or hydrochlorate of pilocarpine appears in many cases to be equally effective and to be better tolerated. Tliese drugs should be used in the minimum amount, and with the minimum frequency which suffice to contract the pupil and to keep it contracted : usually one drop once or twice a day, sometimes more frequently, and in some cases of chronic glaucoma, at longer intervals. In cases where slight temporary attacks occur at considerable intervals of time, the drops should be used only as often as is necessary to banish them. In cases in which the contractility of the pupil is entirely lost niyotics are probably useless, and in these same cases atropine is i^robably harndess, and some- times perhaps beneficial. When atropine cannot dilate the pupil it never probably raises the tension, and in those forms of secondary glaucoma characterised by serous exudation into t he aqueous chamber, with deepening of the anterior chamber, atropine tends to lessen the inflammation and thereby to restore the normal tension. Apart from their influence on the iris and ciliary muscle, however, the action of these drugs is not yet completely known, and in some cases of glaucoma, especially during treatment after operation, and in some forms of secondary glaucoma, the choice between a myotic and a mydriatic is not easy to make; the one or the otlicr nnist be used tentativel}', and its action carefully watched. Cocaine, like every other dilator of the pupil.