GLANDERS (FARCY) 458 nodules form in the muscles, rigors simulating those of pyaemia are a prominent symptom. Towards the end the heart fails, its beats become quickened, the pulse becomes thready, easily compressible, the temperature rises to 105°-106° K, the skin is covered with a cold clammy sweat, consciousness becomes cloudy, the evacua- tions are passed involuntarily, and eventually the patient becomes comatose. The extremities are cold, gangrene and ulcers extend, giving rise to a fearful stench, and finally, after com- plete loss of consciousness and sensibility, dyspncEa increases, the breathing becomes stertorous, and tetanic convulsions close the scene. Chronic Glanders.—This form of the disease may last months or even years; the patient complains of a vague feeling of discomfort, pains in the extremities and joints, loss of appetite, and sleeplessness. The attacks of fever are recuri'ent. The symptoms vary in severity from time to time, and eventually either pass into an acute form, or complete recovery may take place. The local lesions in these cases vary greatly. If the skin is the seat of the lesion the surrounding parts become swollen and cedemat- ous, the nodules usually appear in one part only ; they break down, leaving indolent ulcers, which may heal, leaving a scar. Abscesses form around joints, and fistulous openings, which show little tendency to heal, appear upon the surface. They discharge a thin foul pus. An eruption of papules, which become pustidar, may appear. Aft'ection of the nasal septum is often absent, when it appears it follows a similar course to that met with in the acute disease, but is much more chronic. Extensive ulceration occurs, leading to destruction of the septum and even gangrene of the root of the nose. Inflam- mation and ulceration of the pharynx and soft palate may occur, and in these cases the lesions strongly resemble those found in syphilis. VIII. Pathology.—The lesions which occur in this disease are due to the B. mallei and its products. This organism lodging in the tissues gives rise to a series of changes, the most characteristic being the formation of proliferative nodules in various situations, chiefly in the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract, lungs, and skin. But they are also found in the subcutaneous and submucous tissue, liver, kidney, dura mater, periosteum, and synovial membranes. These nodules show a marked tendency to break down, forming ulcers if situated on free surfaces. In the horse a common situation for these lesions is the nasal mucous membrane. Within two or three days of infection a small injected area appears, in which a yellow nodule is seen projecting from the free surface. This yellow centre breaks down and leaves a small ulcer. The nodules usually occur in groups, and the ulcers running into each other may soon form a large ulcer, with irregular indurated edges, a deep infiltrating base. This is surrounded by many small nodules in various stages of develop- ment and softening, which, breaking down, increase the area of the ulcei'ated surface. The ulcers at first discharge a thin glairy fluid ; this rapidly becomes purulent and viscid. In addi- tion to these changes the mucous membrane is often swollen and injected, and secretes a viscid mucus which appears to possess specially irritat- ing qualities, leading to superficial ulcerations of the mucous membranes in situations where no nodules are found. The ulceration, very extensive and destructive, may lead to perfora- tion of the septum and necrosis of the nasal bones. Characteristic nodules, at first ti'ans- lucent, hard and shotty to the touch, form throughout the lungs. These are surrounded by an area of consolidated lung which micro- scopically shows a proliferation and infiltration of the walls of the air vesicles and exudation of leucocytes, with the formation of fibrin in the air vesicles themselves. The area is usually surrounded by a zone of injection, which is especially well seen on the pleural surface. In chronic cases the nodules become fibrous and even calcified. In acute cases the submaxillary lymphatic glands are enlarged and indiirated, and tend to become adherent to the surrounding structures. In the skin the lesions usually run a more chronic course; nodules, diffuse swell- ings, and inflammation and enlargement of the lymphatics leading from the part occur. The nodules break down and form ulcers and sinuses, which show but slight tendency to heal. In the more chronic cases the ulcers both on the nasal septum and in the skin may heal, leaving dense stellate scars. Hot, painful, oedematous swell- ings are frequently seen. In man the process is usually very acute. If the septum nasi is involved, the formation of nodules occurs as in the horse, but the ulceration in this case is usually more rapid, and the destruction of the deeper tissues more extensive; perforation of the septum and necrosis of the nasal bones often occurring within a few days of onset. Ulcers also form on the soft palate and pharynx. The antrum and sphenoidal sinuses may be also involved, and occasionally the inflammation spreads into the cranium, causing inflammation of the meninges. If the lungs are attacked numerous nodules are found scattered throughout their substance. These are small, and surrounded by an area of con- solidated lung tissue with a bright zone of injection. If cutaneous lesions are present they commonly occur as papules, which rapidly become pustules, containing a cheesy material or thick, blood-stained pus. A red scab forms, which, if removed, leaves a small ulcer, ffide- matous swellings also occur, and in many cases show a striking resemblance to phlegmonous erysipelas. The muscles may contain nodules