ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 46 present. Deformity is manifest, more so in the adult. Holding gently the epicondyles, they will be found to move with every move- ment of the forearm, and to permit of an amount of lateral movement which plainlj' establishes unnatural mobility. With the fingers behind and the thumbs in front, the lower fragment can be guided into position. This movement may elicit crepitation. Displacement immediately recurs, especially in the oblique variety, as the oblique surface forms no basis of support. The humerus will be found shortened on measurement. If the injury be a compound one, the upper fragment, denuded of its periosteal lining, is usually shot through the skin. Whether in such an injury the joint is opened is a question much debated and all-important in regai'd to treatment and ultimate result. That the joint is not opened in every case is certain, and even if opened may be effectually shut oft' from septic infection should siich occur. Occasionally the nerves, the musculo-spiral, median, ulnar, are damaged and sometimes torn through, necessitating operative interference. The brachial artery has been so injured as to give rise to gangrene. Treatment.—One cannot emphasise too much the advantages of full ansesthesia in all injuries of the elbow-joint. It places the diagnosis on a more certain foundation, and renders accurate the apposition and retention of the fragments. In this particular fracture, having reduced the displacement, some means must be taken to ensure fixation of the fragments. Some use no splints at all, others fully flex the elbow and fix with bandages of sticking- plaster, making the triceps tendon act the part of a splint. A splint of some kind is probably advisable, but whether applied in front, behind, or laterally, in a position of flexion or extension, is a matter of opinion. In the child the position of extension is irk- some, and in the adult, if with traction, which is sometimes necessary, necessitates absolute confinement to bed. A padded hoop-iron splint bent to the angle which seems most effective, and applied either to the posterior aspect of the limb alone or to the front as well, answers admirably in children. In the adult, if extension with traction be found most serviceable, care should be taken that union does not occur with the forearm in a position of varus or valgum, a result more likely to happen in treatment by extension than in treatment by flexion. A posterior moulded splint applied with the forearm in a position of full flexion seems in our opinion to yield the best results. No splint should be kept on longer than three weeks, when passive motion should be commenced. (Jj) Of the fractures of the lower end of the humerus which directly communicate with the joint, exclusive of epicondylar fractures, there are two chief varieties :— 1. Oblique fracture through the articular end separating the capitellar surface ; and 2. Oblique fracture through the articular end separating the trochlear surface. 1. By far the most frequent variety is that involving the capitellum. The usual line of fracture is from above, downwards and inwards from a point immedi- ately below the external epicondyle to the ridge separating the capitellar from the trochlear surface, though a varying amount of the capitellum may be carried away. It is mostly met with in young persons up to the age of puberty, and may, like all other injuries to the elbow, be the result of a direct blow on the elbow itself. It is usually, however, the result of a fall on the pronated hand, so that the force is transmitted through the radius to the capitellum, which is thereby driven upwards, carrying with it in some cases the external epicondyle. Diagnosis.—On the arm being straightened the fragment is pulled downwards by the external lateral ligament, and rotated outwards, so that in some cases it can be felt under the skin. The elicitation of crepitation may be difficult owing to separation of the fractured surfaces, and specially so if the fracture be accompanied by a dislocation backwards of the radial head. Any attempt at movement causes intense pain. The results of treatment hitherto of this fracture have not been satisfactory. If union occur with the fragment displaced and rotated, excessive callus is thrown out, causing subse- quent limitation of movement and an awkward projection in front of the joint; and, on the other hand, if the fragments do not unite, such an amount of cubitus valgum results as to render the arm remarkably useless. Though in children continued passive motion may improve matters, perfect movement is im- possible, and a varying amount of valgum will remain. Treatment.—Opinion varies as to the best line of treatment. No one doubts the value of full anaesthesia in an attempt to fix in position the broken frag- ment, but whether this can be done effectually without cutting down and wiring or pinning the fragment is a question still sub juclice. That this minor operation can be easily and safely done there is no question whatever. Without operation the difficulty lies in re- placing and keeping the fragment in position. A padded posterior metal splint where the angle can be changed every few days, with local pressure over the fragment by a pad, will reduce the chance of ankylosis or of vicious union.