210 EYEBALL, INJURIES OF the temporal border of the optic disc. Its greatest width, usually about one - third the diameter of the disc, is at the centre, from which it tapers above and below into a tine streak. Tlie borders of the rupture are more or less pigmented, and minute retinal haemorrhages are common in the immediate neighbourhood of the lesion. The retinal vessels lie in front of it, and course uninterruptedly across it. It may bifurcate at its upper or lower extension. If seen early, effusion of blood, which always takes place to a greater or lesser degree, prevents a clear view and may render its recognition difficult or impossible. There may be present two, three, or even more concentric ruptures. Ruptures of this description are explained by the blow causing invagination of the back of the eye by tlie stem of the optic nerve, the choroid being thus thrown into a fold or series of folds along which this membrane gives way. This phenomenon is often associated with rup- tures or detachment of tlie iris, hyphsema, and dislocation of the lens. The vision, at iirst much lowered by the effusion of blood, quickly clears up, and may reach a normal standard if the region of the macula lutea is not involved. The retina is very rarely torn, but may become detached long afterwards during cicatrisation. Atrophy of the optic disc sometimes occurs, and dotted pigmentary degeneration of the macula, Haab's macular disease, is often present. In a small percentage of cases the rupture is situated at the nasal side of the disc. We sometimes get an irregular map-like area of yellowish discoloration of the choroid com- mencing near the disc and spreading out like a fan towai'ds the periphery either at the temporal or nasal side of the eye, with pigment strewn over its surfaces and penetrating into the retina. Such cases have been described by Siegrist, who believes the condition is due to rupture of one or other long ciliary artery, as precisely similar changes were shown by Wagenmann to follow experimental division of these vessels. The term commotio retime some five-and- twenty years ago was employed to designate all cases of defective vision following a blow on the eye if gross ophthalmoscopic changes, especially atrophy of the disc, were absent, but since Berlin's observations and experiments the term has become much more restricted in its applica- tion. Berlin, in many cases of blows on the eye, found a diffuse greyish clouding at the posterior pole which came on within an hour of the accident, gradually increased in size and density, becoming of a milky white colour and covering an area ten or a dozen times the size of the disc, against which the retinal vessels stood out very dark and distinct, but showed no elevation. These changes reached their maximum in twenty-four to thirty hours, and had usually disappeared by the third or even the second day, with complete or nearly comjjlete restora- tion of the vision, which at first had fallen to one-third or a quarter of the normal standard. By his experiments on animals he found a layer of blood between the choroid and sclerotic cor- responding in position to the retinal oedema, which latter he considered was due to imbibition of serum from the subchoroidal effusion of blood. This condition being so transitory is ver}^ readily overlooked, especially as the intolerance of light set up by the blow renders it very difficult to make a proper ophthalmoscopic examination. The clinical features of this affection have been confirmed by all subsequent writers, among whom may be mentioned Leber, Hirschberg, Schmidt-Rimpler, Nettleship, Knapp, and Herdegen. As to the exact cause of the retinal clouding which several have tried to elucidate by experi- ments on animals, opinions are almost as numer- ous as the communications. Hirschberg and Ostwalt say it is due to a paralytic widening of the retinal vessels followed by increased perme- ability of their walls, the oedema thus spreading from the inner to the outer layers of the retina, and not, as Berlin thinks, in a reverse direction, and this view is accepted by Siegfried and Linde. Makrocki thinks it is due to a molecular change in the nerve-fibre layer. Denig believes there are two factors at work, the fluids of the vitreous being driven into the retina and a transudation from the choroidal vessels collect- ing between the rods and cones. Schirmer found hfemorrhage between the retina and choroid, which being constantly present he regards as the cause of the retinal clouding, while finally Back thinks it is due to a fine fibro-nuclear layer of exudation between the retina and choroid. It is impossible to reconcile these discrepant views, and personally I think Berlin's explana- tion as satisfactory as any. We must keep the pupil dilated with atropine, forbid the use of the eyes, and make the patient wear dark smoked goggles. Traumatic neurosis may very rarely follow injury of the eye as after injury of other parts of the body, and is shown amblyopia with peripheral contraction of the field of vision, blepharospasm, cutaneous anaesthesia, achroma- topsia, etc. Injuries from Penetration without Reten- tion OF A Foreign Body.—The cases under this heading are of much greater interest to the practical surgeon than the preceding group, as they demand more energetic and varied treat- ment, and derive especial importance from the fact that the sound eye is often in danger from sympathetic disease, necessitating removal of the injured eye. A heavy blow or thrust with some blunt object, or a fall on the same, may burst the