59 ELECTRICITY M. Iricep3 (long bead) BL triccpa (ionc-r Lead) diagnosis by faradism the nniijolar method is most convenient, though sometimes the locahsed extra condensation of current produced by using the bipohir method, lioth small electrodes, in close proximity over the nerve or motor point, will elicit a contraction unobtainable 1)}' the former method. With the miipolar method the indifferent electrode is large, and placed over the spine or sternum. The active electrode should be small and circular, and fixed on a handle supplied with a spring make and break connec- tion for the finger. The cords connecting the electrodes with the binding posts are best made of twisted fine copper wire covered with silk, ending in stout metal plugs to fit into the screw holes on the battery and electrode. They should be from four to six feet long, and a iiseful addition is to have the last eighteen inches next the electrode covered with good rubber tubing fitting closely, to prevent the silk getting wet. Cotton-covered wires are ol)- joctionable because, even when dry, they allow leakage of current, which is unpleasant both for operator and patient. The faradic current may Ije used in diagnosis either as single inter- I'upted shocks, which are produced l)y a special lever attached to the battery, or by working the vibrat- ing hammer slowly by hand, or else as the rapidly interrupted current, [n the former case a single brisk twitch results, and the secondary coil must be shifted nearer to the primary than if i-apid interruptions arc used. The faradic curi-ent stimulates the muscle only through the nerves or nerve-endings, and thus for each muscle there is a certain point, the motor point, where the electrode obtains the maximum contraction, the nearest point to the entry of the nerve into the muscle. These motor points are shown in the accompanying illustrations. When the nerve to a muscle is injured or diseased, the irritability to faradism gradually diminishes and disappears. It is therefore useful in distinguish- ing a supranuclear from an infranuclear lesion, for if the nerve cell and fibre supplying the muscle are intact, the muscle will respond briskly to faradism, unless there be great wasting from idiopathic muscular atrophy, or following hemiplegia. In these exceptions the muscle gives a weaker and more sluggish con- traction both to faradism and galvanism, while in acute myositis the faradic reactions remain intact, unless wasting follows. Therefore in lesions of the upper neuron, such as hemiplegia, spastic paralogia, Friedreich's disease, and all functional paralyses, the faradic reactions are unaltered, and the muscles do not waste, or only slightly. On the other hand, in infantile paralysis, diffuse cervical or lumbar myelitis, l^eripheral neuritis, and nerve injuries, the faradic reactions will be lost on account of the trophic cell centre of the muscle being separated from it or destroyed. Curarised muscle will, it is true, react to faradism, though badly, but there is not then the profound metabolic change l£. flexor crsyt] utlcariS profund. 71. flcjc. digiior. aubllm. (.digitill. c{ lU.) il. digit, sabl. (digit, iudicis ct minimi) ?I. pal maris brCT. M. atoJact-or diciU tuia. M, digii: min. I£,op?oaens digili. mi::. Mai. lumbricales ] M. abdactot poliic, brCT. H. opponcnf polUcL. M. flcz. poll, brcv M. adUuctor polhc. bic7. produced when the axis-cylinders are destroyed. In all cases in which muscle-testing is being performed, it is of the greatest importance to see that the electi^odes are thorouo-hly wet, the skin well moistened, and also that the iuditierent electrode is in good apposition to the skin. A practical point which should always be observed, unless the physician thoroughly knows his battery, is to test the current pei'sonally upon the hand before applying it to the patient, so as to avoid giving unnecessarily severe shocks, and also to prove that the battery is in working order. Treatment hy Faradism.—Certain distinctions