262 FAVUS best is the old-fashioned white precipitate ointment, which may be used in its full phar- macopoeic strength. The ointment of the nitrate should be used diluted, commencing say with two drachms of the ointment to an ounce of vaseline, until experience has shown the amount of irritation which each patient's skin will stand. All ointment must be rubbed vigorously in at least twice daily, and the scalp should be kept covered with a cloth thickly spread with a somewhat weaker prepara- tion. Their efficacy can of course be increased by covering this dressing with some impervious material, but if this is done the case must be carefully watched for signs of undue irritation, and this is not an easy matter in the class of patients which favus most affects. Another method of treatment aims at setting up so much reactionary inflammation, e.g. by blister- ing, that the fungus is indirectly destroyed. This method is suitable enough for cases w-here the disease is not extensive, but is quite un- suitable for those where practically the whole scalp is affected. The only method of treatment which affords any reasonable hope of curing the disease is that of removal of all the diseased hair. The barbarous pitch cap or " calotte " is no longer used, but it at least proceeded on the right principle. Pitch plaster was applied to the shaven scalp, and when after some days the newly growing hair had become firmly adherent to it, it was forcibly removed, bringing the hair and a considerable portion of the scalp with it. Epilation by forceps was, up to very recently, our only practical method of dealing with the disease, and in careful hands and with a great deal of patience on both sides a cure might be hoped for in from six to twelve months, according to the extent of the spread of the disease. Un- fortunately this period is too long for internal treatment in ordinary hospital wards, and too often the patient passed out of observation just as a mastery was being gained over the disease. In the " X " rays we have at last obtained a means of epilation which promises to place the disease more completely in our power. Their action in causing the loss of hair has all along been known, but curiously it appears to have been only this year that it occurred to several dermatologists independently that here we had at last the remedy which we had so long sought for. By a judicious use of the X-rays the whole of the hair can be caused to fall from the scalp, and any fungus which remains is easily got at and easily destroyed. The treatment is still in its infancy, and it is consequently premature to be dogmatic on the method of application. We are at present using in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary a coil which will carry a ten-inch spark, with one accumulator giving a current of six volts. Treatment is commenced with the tube twelve inches from the patient, and the exposure lasts for two minutes. If there are no signs of irritation the distance is shortened and the exposure lengthened, but this must be done gradually and carefully, as cases are extremely iiTegular in their response. {See "X-Rays.") For a varying number of weeks the patient has neither favus nor hair, but the latter gradually returns and the case is cured. The only disadvantages of the method are those due to want of experience in the use of the rays; if the exposure has been too prolonged or the current too strong the loss of hair may be permanent, though that is much to be preferred to favus, or, a more serious accident, there may be consider- able sloughing of the skin, which not only leads also to the total and permanent loss of hair, but to an ulcer which is extraordinarily slow in heal- ing. At the experimental stages of the treat- ment it is of course necessary to run as few risks as jDOSsible, and as experience grows the results will doubtless be more rapid ; at present a month or six weeks is usually required to produce complete baldness, and perhaps two or three months more for the re-growth of the hair. Favus of Non-hairy Skin.—When the disease attacks the non-hairy skin it is easily cured by the constant application of almost any antiseptic ointment or plaster, the mercviry and carbolic plaster made by Beiersdorf of Hamburg being a most efficient and cleanly application. Favus of the Nails.—This occurs in two forms. A scutulum may develop on the nail bed, and raise the nail plate over it, or the fungus may attack the substance of the nail and lead to its disintegration. Both forms are difficult to manage. In the latter it is sometimes possible by scraping away the nail substance with broken glass and apply- ing some antiseptic to cure the disease, but the simplest and the most radical method of treat- ment is avulsion. Features. See Physiognomy and Ex- pression. Febricula,. See Ephemeral Fever; Tropics, The Unclassed Fevers op {Con- tinued Fevers of Short Duration); Undulant Fever {Diagnosis). Febrifugfes. See Antipyretics and Antipyretic Measures ; Pharmacology ; Tem- perature ; etc. Febrile.—Relating to or accompanied by an elevation of temperature; feverish. See Nephritis {Etiology, Mild Cases, Febrile Albu- minuria) ; Purpura {Febrile Purpura); Tem- perature. Febriline.—A proprietary preparation said to consist of quinidine dissolved in lemon syrup.