223 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF which accompanies the onset of the attack is followed by redness and swelling of the lid, which causes considerable pain until suppura- tion and the bursting of the little abscess affords relief. A stye which points on the outer or on the inner surface of the lid according to its seat of origin is accompanied by more or less chemosis of the conjunctiva, as it is situated nearer to, or farther from, the outer canthus. TreatmetU.—Abortive measures may be tried in the earliest stage before suppuration has begun : this consists in the internal administra- tion of five drops of the tincture of pulsatilla, every ten minutes, for an hour or longer ; or of half to one grain pills of sulphurated lime, which are taken every hour, for six hours, or until the attack begins to subside. If this treatment fails ■or was not begun sufficiently early, then epila- tion of the affected lash or massage with a glass rod of the implicated Meibomian gland should be tried, to evacuate any retained secretion. When suppuration has begun the pus should be let out at once by puncturing the abscess with the point of a Gi'aefe's knife, which affords im- mediate relief. Until this can be done hot boric acid fomentations should be used frequently, and .should 1)0 continued after the pus has escaped until the inHannnation has subsided. After an attack the lids must be bathed night and morn- ing with a 2 per cent solution of boric acid, or with a 1 in 4000 solution of perchloride of mercury and then massaged with boric acid ■ointment to keep the ducts of the glands in a normal condition. The general health should also be attended to, and fresh air and regular exercise be ordered. In every case the refraction should l.)e ex- amined and corrected with glasses, whicli are to be worn constantly, at least until all tendency to a relapse has passed. Chalazion.—This affection of the Meibomian glands, known also as a Meibomian cyst or tumour, begins either as a small painless swell- ing which may remain unnoticed until it has attained a considerable size, or it occurs after an inflammatory attack on the lid. As the tumour increases in size, b}' the growth of its granulation-like tissue which is encapsuled in a layer of connective tissue, the swelling becomes more prominent and can be felt in the tarsus beneath the skin. After a time the substance of the growth breaks down in the centre, the liipiid contents escape thi-ough a perforation in the palpeliral conjunctiva, and are followed by a button of the granulation tissue which is flattened by coming in contact with the globe. In this condition the tumour may remain for an indefinite time. When a cyst occurs near the orifice of the gland it usually perforates the skin externally. Occasionally these tiunours occur singly, but frequently they appear iu crops, and may thicken nearly the whole tarsus. As thei'e is no tendency to a spontaneous cui'e the lid should be everted after the instillation of a few drops of a 2 per cent cocaine solution, and a little powdered cocaine is dusted over the affected gland, which is easily recognised by its colour. A vertical incision is made into the cyst with a Beer's knife, and the contents are squeezed out. The interior of the cyst is then scraped out with a spoon to remove all the jelly- like material, which grows again if the sac is not completely emptied. After the oj^eration the cavity fills with l)lood, and the tumour only disappears when this has absorbed. When the sac has perforated spontaneouslj^, the button of gTanulation tissue should be cut off and tlic contents scraped out through the opening iu the tarsus which may be enlarged with a knife. Occasionally on incising the cyst it is found to consist mainly of connective tissue with very little jelly-like contents. In such cases the growth has to be dissected out through an in- cision made in the skin. The after-treatment consists in fomenting the lid with boric acid or sublimate lotion, to be followed by a massage of the lids, for a few minutes, every night. Infarcts op the Meibomian Glands.—When the contents of these glands are retained and become inspissated, they may undergo calcareous degeneration (lythiasis), and during the process of their elimination they make their way through the conjunctiva and act as foreign ))odies wliich irritate the globe. The concretion should be removed with the point of a needle after the application of a little cocaine solution. Subsequently the patient should massage the tarsus by rul)l)ing boric acid ointment into the edges of the lids every night to keep the glands empty. Tarsitis.—The tarsus occasioiially is the sub- ject of an acute inflammatory attack followed by suppuration and sloughing of the whole of its structure which leads to a total loss of the lashes and to a lax condition of the lid. Even an early incision through the skin and capsule of the tarsus, followed by hot boric acid fomenta- tions to the lids, does not always prevent the progress of the inflammation. A more chronic inflammation of the tarsus which causes con- siderable thickening of the lid and takes many weeks to run its course is due to tertiary syphilis. Affections of the Muscles Spasm of the Orbicularis. — Spasm of the orbicularis varies in degree from an occasional twitching of a few of its fibres (live blood) to the complete closure of the palpebral fissure by the contraction of both the palpebral and the orbital portions of the muscle. It occurs occasionally as a primarj^ affection, but more usually it is a secondary symptom of ail irritation of a branch of one of the divisions of the fifth nerve. The most common cause of the spasm is irritation of the conjunctiva or cornea by foreign