ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 54 terminate in acute suppurative inflammation; in such cases the joint may be involved in the suppurative process, especially in old and debilitated patients, by the bone becoming affected either from a suppurative periostitis opening into the joint directly, or by inducing necrosis of the olecranon. In other cases diffuse cellulitis of the arm may follow owing to the intimate communication of the bursa with the lymphatics. Chronic bursitis may result from irritation due to occupation, and be either characterised by serous effusion or with considerable thicken- ing of the bursal wall. More frequently the chronic form of the affection is due to syphilis, gout, or tubercle, in all of which the thickening of the bursal wall is, as a rule, a marked feature. Diagnosis.—Bursal affections are characterised by the occurrence of well-defined swellings, usually fluctuant, in the site of one or other of the burscE. The acute inflammatory forms soon, however, lose the circumscribed character from the surrounding inflammatory transuda- tion or acute cellulitis, but the situation of the infected wound or the history may indicate the true origin of the mischief. The treatment of the different forms of bursitis varies with the cause. In the suppura- tive form early and free incision, with frequent antiseptic packing of the wound, will best avoid the risk of extension to the surrounding parts. The syphilitic and tuberculous forms are best treated by as complete an excision of the sac as may be possible. In the deeper-seated burste the use of a Volkmann's spoon may enable the greater part of the disease to be removed with the least disturbance of the surrounding parts. Hsemorrhage into the bursa may be treated by rest and elastic compression, or should there be undue delay in absorption, by excision and evacuation under careful antiseptic precautions. {See " Bursse," vol. ii.) Blood-vessels.—Aneurysm may result from venesection, and was formerly not uncommon. Due to wound of the brachial artery near the bend of the elbow, the result is either an ordinary traumatic or arteriovenous aneurysm, which gives rise to marked circulatory disturb- ance in the forearm and hand. The treatment consists in proximal and distal ligation of the artery with excision of the sac ; should operative interference be inadvisable, by compression of the arm above the aneurysm or by forcible flexion of the elbow. {See "Aneurysm," vol. i.) Inflammation of the veins and lymphatics in this region only occurs as the result of wounds or operations when antiseptic precautions have not been taken. Neuralgia of the Elbow may result from an inflammatory affection of the parts, or be due to mischief farther up the limb : thus, pain about the elbow is occasionally complained of in diseases involving the armpit or shoulder. Pain may also result from local nerve injury. Dislocation of the ulnar nerve may take place from a blow or, apparently in some cases, with- out any definite cause, in which case it has been supposed that the displacement has been facili- tated by a want of development of the internal condyle. The nerve slips over the condyle in flexion, and may also be readily placed in front of the bone by manipulation. Considerable pain and reflex loss of power may result, necessitating fixation of the nerve in its place by stitching over it a flap of deep fascia, and in some cases deepening the groove in the posterior surface of the bone. In the majority of the neuralgic affections of the elbow some definite cause of irritation may be found, but in some neurotic individuals of debilitated constitution shooting pains of a true neuralgic character may occur without a known cause. In such cases it is well to encourage free use of the joints, while a tonic course of general treatment and the local application of liniment of iodine, blisters, or even of Corrigan's button, will often give relief. New Growths about the elbow present no special features of consequence. Osteal and periosteal tumours are most frequent in early life. Sarcomata, chondromata, and osteomata may occur in the bones of the elbow-joint, and require excision or amputation according to the nature and extent of the tumour. Loose Bodies are met with less frequently in the elbow than in some of the other joints. When present they give rise to pain and limita- tion of movement, and may usually be readily recognised by palpation. They cause crepitus on movement. Treatment consists in their removal under antiseptic precautions. Excision of the Elbow-Joint This operation may be required for disease or injury. Of the former, tuberculous disease forms the greatest proportion; and of the latter, gunshot wounds and unreduced disloca- tion. It may be necessary also to excise the joint for ankylosis if union be in a faulty position. 1. Excision of the Joint. — The line of incision is better longitudinal than transverse, as a transverse incision needlessly damages the triceps aponeurosis and gives no better exposure of the joint. The posterior median incision is preferred by most; the lateral incisions of Oilier and Hueter are complicated and seem to have no special advantage. Some lay considerable emphasis on the pre- servation of part of the attachment of the anconeus, separating it from the ulna no farther than a point just below the base of the olecranon. It is said to undergo development subsequently and to assist greatly in the extension of the forearm. Injury to and division of the ulnar nerve is