GOUT 513 He assured me that marked relief of the pains had followed this treatment, and that no benefit had accrued until his scarf-pin showed mai'ked discoloration. Such stories have to be received with caution ; but we know so little about the role of sulphur in the animal economy, that no harm will accrue from our keeping our minds open to new suggestions, especially if these prove to have any basis in clinical experience.' In the meantime we can sum up by emphasis- ing the fact that the medicinal ti'catment* of gout is by far the least important part of treatment and at the same time we must indi- cate two dangers attendant on their use. In the first place, undue stress is often laid by the patient, more especially in the earlier stages of the disease, on the drugs in use, to the detri- ment of the more important dietetic regime necessary ; and, in the second place, the exces- sive use of alkalies, mineral water, salicylate of soda, etc., occasionally does much harm by the general depression attendant on their abuse. In the selection of a general tonic for gouty subjects, iron should as a rule be avoided, as it very often disagrees. Mineral Waters The various waters in common use are recom- mended for one of the following reasons:— i. A purely purgative action. ii. A diuretic action. iii. A diuretic and medicinal action. Of the Purgative Waters.—Franz Joseph is one of the most palatable, and its action is mild. Apenta, a bitter and faintly suljjhurated water, is also mild and much favoured. Hunyadi Janos, /Esculap, Friedrichshall, and Carlsbad are all bitter aperients, with a more powerful action, but are all suitable for occasional use. The action of these waters is hastened by ad- mixture with hot water, and they should be taken tlie first thing in the morning. The con- tinual daily use of any mineral water or saline purgative is not, however, desirable. Of the Diuretic Waters.— Some are palatable, and are taken as table waters; others are specially suited for a short course of home treat- ment, and should be taken thrice daily on an empty stomach for a period of two or three weeks. The table waters, which are aerated, include ApoUinaris, Briresborn, Johannis, Seltzer, St. Galmier, and Salutaris, which is a distilled water of English manufacture. The other group is represented by Contrexeville, a mild water containing sulphate of lime and magnesia, and Vicliy water (bicarbonate of soda the main saline), of which there are several varieties. ' It is quite possible that this ohl-fashioued and appar- ently unscientiliu treatment may not be so unscientific as is imagined, e.t/. compare the most recent method of treatment of syphilis based on the fact that the mercury is absorbed by volatilisation, and not at all by inunction. VOL. Ill Celestins is the best known, but the Grand- Grille and Hauterive may also be employed with benefit. Sulis water from the springs at Bath is also useful. Diuretic and Medicinal Action.—Occasionally the presence of anaemia, rheumatism, or some pelvic disorder suggests the use of other waters. Thus Levico (arsenic and iron) is useful in anaimia. So also is Schwalbach (Weissonbrunn preferred) and La Boui'bule, the former being especially useful in rheumatic cases. Kissingen, a saline gaseous aperient water, is valuable in various uterine and other pelvic disorders in gouty subjects. The foregoing only represents a few of the mineral waters available; artificial representa- tions of many of these and other waters are prepared in this country and sold in tabloid form. Spa Treatment The beneficial effects undoubtedly derived from spa treatment in many instances arise from a variety of circumstances. For the time being worries and cares are lost sight of, the mind is at rest, and more or less pervaded by that feeling of hopeful expectancy that is of such paramount importance in treatment. The change of air and surroundings, the greater attention to diet, and the general feeling of bien etre engendered by the interests and amusements which form an integral part of every well-regulated spa, all tend to favour that return to health which has as its most striking manifestation a re-establishment of a nitrogenous equilibrium. The great importance of the skin as a channel for the elimination of urea and other waste products has already been referred to. The local measures associated with a course of balneological treatment may best be indicated by illustrative cases. The choice of a spa will depend on various tilings, the most important being the temj^era- inent of the individual and the special mani- festations of the disease which the patient exhibits. It is needless to recommend patients to whom excitement and amusements are part of the breath of life to go to one of the quieter health resorts, while on the other hand there are not a few to whom a small quiet place is a much greater attraction. A very short sum- mary can only be given here. Fcjv Articular Gout.—The thermal waters of Bath and Buxton rightly maintain a high position, Bath being more suitable for the spring and autumn months on account of its mild climate, and Buxton more appropriate in summer owing to its more bracing air. Woodhall Spa (Lincolnshire), with its bromo-iodine waters, and the saline sulphurous chalybeate waters of Llandrindod (Radnorshire) can also be highly commended. The brine baths of Droitwich (Worcestershire) are of peculiar value in re- 33