ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 51 what exceptional state of affairs, measures should at once be taken to keep the parts aseptic. The joint shoukl be fixed at right angles with the forearm, midway between supination and prona- tion, and an attempt made to secure subsequent movement. If the bones have been injured, and possibly comminuted, any loose and projecting fragment can be removed and the joint irrigated and fixed. Where the articular surfaces are implicated, ankylosis is an unavoidable result, and care should be taken to ensure that the best position is got, which will probably be found to be a little less than a right angle. It is perhaps better at this stage only to remove what is hopelessly damaged than to perform a classical excision. Should conservative measures fail and sup- puration ensue, with deatli of the injured frag- ments, a secondary operation can be performed. Primary amputation is only required where destruction of the bones is very extensive, and where the main vessel is torn across. Contraction's.— Destruction of the skin hy injury, as in burning or disease, induces con- tracture of the joint from cicatrisation. Means must be used to counteract this tend- ency by early skin grafting, preferably with large grafts or pedunculated skin flaps from the arm above or below, or, as recommended by some, from the chest. In the minor degrees of contracture continuous extension may be suffi- cient (Schede), but in the more severe forms it will generally be found necessary to divide the cicatrix transversely after forcible extension, and graft the exposed surface. Myogenic contraction may cause stiffness so great as to necessitate treatment. It may follow injury or disease, especially syphilitic disease of the biceps, or be the result of spasm (of biceps, Stromeyer) due to altered nerve function. Ankylosis. — Ankylosis of the elbow may result from tuberculous or suppurative disease of the joint, and necessarily interferes much with the usefulness of the limb. When the forearm is fixed at somewhat less than a right angle the limb may be fairly uscfid, at least more so than when straight, though in both cases the limb may be usefid for particular pur- poses. When straight the limb can only be used in some handicrafts. Following tuberculous disease, and especially in young children, it is well to wait until the arm is ncai'ly fully developed before excising, as considerable distortion of the limb may result from corresponding diminution of its usefulness. Partial ankylosis may take place. In xinion at the radio-ulnar articulation, with limitation of pronation and supination, either from fractui'e or from disease, excision of tlie head of the radius, or merely dividing the bond of union, may be sufficient, provided attention be paid to sub- sequent movement. Prolonged fixation after injury may lead to partial ankylosis from shrinkage of the capsule or formation of fibrous adhesions. The treatment consists in immediate and forcible stretching of the resistant structures under an anaesthetic or, according to the degree of resistance, by gradual extension from weights or mechanical aids such as may be obtained by an adjustable hinge-joint splint. A plaster of Paris splint applied to the arm with metal hinges opposite the joint, and the plaster cut away from before and behind the joint, is useful, as by means of pieces of cork inserted between the edges of the plaster, force may be gradually brought to bear so as to correct the contraction : elastic traction may be used instead of cork. Other cavises of limitation of movement in the elbow-joint are deformity of bone in osteo- arthritis, and thickening of the bone in peri- ostitis, leading to filling up of the fossa? or to ex- pansion of the bony processes. Cubitus Varus and Valgus, the former being abnormal flexion and pronation of the forearm, and the latter excessive supination and radial flexion of the forearm, may be due to fractures or rachitis, or be in some cases congenital. Osteotomy will rectify the deformity in some cases of the acquired form; as a rule no treat- ment is required in the congenital variety. Inflammatory Diseases.—In the diagnosis of all affections of the elbow-joint it will be found that inspection and palpation of the posterior part of the joint by the sides of the olecranon are especially important, since it is there that any abnormal fulness of the joint will be first noticed. The head of the radius can lie examined by paljjation aided hj movements of pronation and supination. Flexion and extension are early restricted in all diseases of the elbow-joint, and, as a rule, the limb becomes fixed in a position of flexion and semi-pronation, specially if there be eftusion, since in that j^osition the joint has the greatest capacity. Reflex contraction of the biceps aids the flexion particularly in acute affections. Simple Synovitis may result from injury or exposure, and is characterised by a sense of stiffness and pain, especially on movement. The arm is held flexed and semi-pronated, while soon there appears swelling on either side of the olecranon, due, as may be determined by palpation, to the accumulation of fluid in the joint. The treatment consists in securing absolute rest by an angular well-padded splint applied ti) the inner aspect of the limb, relaxing the ten- sion of the part by the use of antiseptic fomen- tations, and a saline purge preceded, if necessary, by a dose of calomel. In asthenic cases leeches have been used with advantage.