FllACTURES 347 methods of securing pliysiological rest for a fracture. The variety of splints is infinite, and it passes the ingenuity of man to number them. It may be taken for granted that the simpler the splint the more useful it will be, and that a surgeon with the help of a carpenter and a blacksmith should be able to manufacture all that he is likely to want in his everyday practice. Wooden, plaster of Paris, and poro-plastic splints are better than metal, for they do not interfere with the passage of the liontgen rays ; and whenever it is possible a skiagraph of the limb should be taken after the bones have been duly set and secured in a splint. Wooden splints are made of white pine, the width selected being always a little greater than that of the limb, so that injurious pressure may be avoided. The splint must be well and firmly padded with tow, the fibres being drawn roughly parallel to each other and sewn into a cover of old linen. The skin must bo well washed with soap and water, gently dried and dusted over with o.xide of zinc or stai'ch powder, and all bony prominences should be protected by pad- ding round them, not over them, with absorbent wool. In no case must skin be allowed to touch skin if the two surfaces are to be kept at rest, and a little wadding or a layer of lint must be placed between them. A bandage must never be put round the limb beneath a splint, and as a rule no bandage should be applied over the seat of fracture. The splint is attached to the limb by strips of plaster, which must encircle the limb spirally and never cii'cularly. It is a cardinal rule that if a splint is uncomfortable it nuist be adjusted and readjusted until the patient no longer complains, though at first it is always irksome. The limb must be carefully watched after the application of a splint to see whether it swells. Oedema is a sign that there is some interference with the circulation, and a defect in the application of a sj^lint is the most common cause of swelling after a fracture. Afassax/e combined with fixation appears to give better results in many cases of fracture than the use of splints alone. Some surgeons trust to massage and rest, discarding the use of splints, but this I believe to lie dangerous, and I have obtained most satisfactory cures by following the method adopted by Mr. W. H. Bennett, who thus describes the technique {The Lancet, vol. i. 1898, p. 359): "The treat- ment is very simple, and is easily acquired by any person of ordinary intelligence possessing a light hand and a fair sense of touch, gentleness being the keynote to successful manipulations. The method comprises thi'ee stages : (i.) Gentle rubbing in an upward direction over the frac- ture with a view to soothing the patient, the relief of nuiscular spasm, and the rapid absorp- tion of extravasatcd blood, etc. ; (ii.) Passive movements of the joints above and below the fracture (thus effecting ' internal massage '), by which all matting of the soft parts at the seat of fracture and about the joints is prevented ; (iii.) The development of wasted muscles by the ordinary massage processes. The details will be best understood by describing an ordinary straightforward case of fracture of both bones of the leg three or four inches above the ankle, in wliich there is little or no difficiilty in keeping the bones in fair position. Keduction of any displacement of the fragments having been accomplished, the limb is placed upon a back splint reaching above the knee, with a footpiece to which the foot is fixed by a bandage in the ordinary way, care being taken to include no more of the leg above the ankle than is absolutely necessary ; a second bandage or piece of wadding fixes the limb to the splint just below or at the knee. As much as possible of the area of the fracture should be left exposed. Rubbing by a gentle, smoothing movement upwards from the ankle is now made by the flat of the hand, grasping as much of the cir- cumference of the limb as is possible. How- ever tender the parts may seem at first, no pain will be caused, but on the contrary a soothing effect is rapidly produced. Ten minutes of this rubbing is sufficient at the first application. If at the end of this time the patient is fairly comfortable, the toes are taken altogether between the operator's tluunb and fingers, and very gently extended upon the metatarsal bones two or three times. At the end of the ' sitting' side splints or sand-bags are used in addition to the l)ack splint for the better steadying of the fracture. This proceeding is repeated daily, or oftener if practicable, for a period of four to seven days, the time occupied by each massage being gradually increased to twenty minutes or more—the side splints being removed before the commencement of each rubbing and afterwards replaced. At the end of this time, if the fracture is in good condition and the frag- ments show no sign of altering their position, the bandages are removed from the foot and ankle, leaving the limb exposed and lying upon the splint. The smooth rubbing already described is now applied over the foot, ankle, and leg for about ten minutes, and then, without removing the leg from the splint, the operator gently flexes the ankle two or three times or more on the leg with one hand whilst he steadies the fracture with the other, the bandages being afterwards replaced as before. This is repeated daily for three or four days, after which the limb at each sitting is gently lifted off the splint on to a flat pillow; the rubbing is now more thoroughly done, and the passive movements of the ankle more freely carried out, the fracture being still, of course, supported with one hand of the operator ; at the end of each sitting passive movement of the knee is now added. The passive movement of