277 FILARIASLS These embryos will remain alive for days in a blood-preparation which has been sealed with vaseline and kept at room temperature. The unstained embryo is best studied when the movements begin to grow sluggish. Examination of Blood for Embryos.— Their presence in the blood is conveniently determined by spreading a blood-film on a slide or cover-glass, drying it in the air, and staining witli ordinary aniline stains. Manson recom- mends the making of tliiclc blood films, as this facilitates the finding of embryos when few are present. It is best to examine blood which has been drawn at 8 to 9 p.m., when the parasites are more numerous. The preparation need not be fixed before staining. With this treatment the hfemoglobin is dissolved out in the dye, and only the parasites and the nuclei of the leucocytes are seen to be deeply stained. The stain (fuchsin, gentian-violet, etc.) is prepared by adding 2-5 drops of a concentrated alcoholic solution of the dye to a watch-glass filled with water. If over-stained, decolorise with dilute acetic acid. Unstained dry films may be kept indefinitely. An immersion-lens is re(|uisite for the study of finer details. Geographical Distribution.—The F. Ban- crofti is very common in warm climates, especially in certain districts in tropical and sub-tropical countries. It has been observed in India (Lewis), China (Manson), Japan (Scheube, Baelz, etc.), Australia as far south as Brisbane (Ban- croft), New Caledonia, it is particularly preva- lent in certain of the South Pacific Islands, such as Samoa (50 per cent of people affected, Manson), and Fiji, etc., in the southern United States of America (Guiteras, Matas, Mastin, de Saussure, Slaughter, Henry), and West Indies, Guiana (VVinckel, etc.), Buenos Ayres (Wernicke) and Brazil, Egypt (Sonsino), Soudan and Algeria (Cauvet), on the Zambesi and Lake Nyassa, the Zanzibar Coast (Felkin), Old Calabar, Dahomey, Madagascar, Mauritius and Reunion, etc. Development.—The idea that the mosquito might serve as a carrier of the Filaria nocturna occurred almost simultaneously to Bancroft and Manson, but it was reserved for the latter (1878) to establish the important fact that the embryos of F. Bancroft/, undergo developmental changes in mosquitoes which have ingested blood containing them. Manson allowed mos- quitoes to infect themselves by sucking the blood of filarial subjects and observed the changes wiiich took place from day to day. At first the embryos, enclosed in their delicate membrane, are almost structureless when viewed unstained. Later the tube separates from the body, giving rise to a double contour, whilst the embryo exhibits very much more marked transverse striation. The sheath is then ruptured by the worm, which butts against it with its cephalic extremity. After rupturing the sheath, the embryo bores tlu-ough the stomach-wall of the insect and finds its way into the thoracic muscles, where it undergoes the following developmental changes :—It first becomes more markedly striated, then less so, the striation gives place to a granular appearance, and the movements slow down. After 36 hours move- ment ceases, the worm grows short and broad, the granules finer. By the end of the third day the tail appears to spring abruptly from the end of the sausage-shaped body, and large cells may be distinguished in the hitherto homo- geneous protoplasm, whilst it sometimes exhibits a double contour. Indications of a mouth are seen, and, through pressure applied to the cover- glass, of an anus a little in advance of the tail. The worm now becomes elongated, the mouth acquires its papilla;, and the alimentary canal is indicated by a delicate line running from mouth to anus. Movement at this stage is feeble, being confined to the caudal appendix, which gradually disappears. As most mosquitoes died (from want of feeding, see below) on the 4-5th day after their last meal, later developmental stages were only observed in a few instances. In four cases a high degree of development was reached, the parasite being visible to the naked eye and measuring of an inch in length by -gij. in breadth, whereas the original embryos only measured ttV of an inch. The large cells within the worm have now become smaller and are gathered around the dark line representing the alimentary canal. The characteristic valve- like termination in the intestine is developed ; the mouth is open and funnel-shaped, and the tail reduced to a stump. The movements now^ become brisker, the body elongates, all cellular appearance vanishes, and owing to the increased transpai'ency of the tissues, the details, except a line indicating the intestine, can no longer be made out. The tapered caudal ex- tremity is crowned by papilla;, Manson (1883) being unable to determine if there were three or four. In this, presumably the last stage of development within the mosquito, the parasite " becomes endowed with marvellous power and activity. It rushes about the field, forcing- obstacles aside, moving indift'erently at either end, and appears quite at home, and in no way inconvenienced by the water in which it has just been immersed." It has been assumed that the worm bores its way out of the insect host at the time when the female insect dies after laying her eggs in the water, and that man becomes infected through drinking water containing filaripe which have developed from embryos to a condition approaching maturity in the mosquito. The filarise then bore their way through the human intestine, and having found a suitable resting-place, attain maturity ; when, fecunda- tion having been effected, new swarms of embi'yos are given off w'ithin the warm-blooded host, in this way completing the cj^cle of development. Of the embryos that are taken