353 FRACTURES require the patient to Ije kept in bed for their satisfactory treatment. Fracture of the sternal end of the clavicle is so rare an accident that only thirty-one cases are recorded—twelve due to muscular action, sixteen to violence, and three in which the cause was not stated. It is probable that in every case the accident has been rather a separation of the epiphysis than a true fracture of the sternal end of the bone. The treatment is the same as for a fracture of the shaft of the clavicle. Fracture of the outer end of the clavicle is considered under the article "Shoulder Joint." The Scapula.—Fractures of the scapula are not very common, but they take place at any part of the bone, because they ai-e nearly always caused by direct violence. Fractures of the coracoid process and of the glenoid cavity are described in the article "Shoulder Joint." There remain to be considered, fractures of the body of the scapula and of the acromion. The body of the scajnda may be broken by direct violence at the middle and at the upper or lower angle, or the fracture may be star- shaped. The exact nature of the injury may be very difficult to determine, as it is often associated with serious injuries elsewhere which prevent any thorough examination of the patient. There is often much swelling due to extravasation of blood ; it is not always easy to obtain crepitus, and the effusion of blood in the connective tissue beneath the muscles caxises a sensation which may be mistaken for crepitus ; the scapula lies beneath a mass of muscle or adipose tissue in muscular and fat patients. When the body of the bone is broken, however, it is possible to discover a point where the local pain is greatest, and there is generally impaired movement of the arm when it is thrust forwards or horizontally. There may be considerable displacement when the upper or lower angle of the bone is broken, due to the action of the levator anguli scapuUne and of the serratus magnus muscles respectively. The p7-og7ios{s is good except in cases com- plicated by other injuries. The arm should be supported in a sling for four or five weeks, and adhesive plaster should be applied to the injured side of the back in the manner best calculated to keep the bony fragments at rest and in apposition. The patient should be kept in bed if there has been more than very slight injury to the soft tissues. True/raci?«-e of the acromion is rare, although scapulje with separated acromial processes are found in every pathological museum, for the majority of the specimens are examples of separation of the acromial epiphyses. In a case of true fracture of the acromion there is a slight flattening of the shoulder with a gap in the bone at the seat of injury, caused by the deltoid drawing the outer fragment downwards. Cre- VOL. Ill ].)itus is not obtained imtil the arm is raised sufficiently to bring the two broken ends to- gether. Local pain and tenderness are well marked, and there is impaired moveiwent of the arm, especially in abduction. Repair takes place by fibrous union if there is much dis- placement, though it may be bony if the broken piece can be maintained in good apposition. The treatment consists in placing a Stro- meyer's cushion between the elbow and the side of the body, the arm lieing afterwards carried across the chest until the deltoid is completely relaxed. A plaster of Paris dressing passing round the chest and over the sound side shoulder fixes the injured limb. If it is un- desirable to use plaster of Paris the arm should ])e suppoi'ted by a lai'ge arm-sling to raise the elbow, and fixed by a bandage carried round the body, a gutta-percha or poroplastic cap being moulded to the shoulder. Passive move- ment may be commenced a fortnight after the accident, but the surgeon should not give too hopeful a prognosis, for many cases of apparent fracture of the acromion are associated with osteoarthritis. The Humerus.—A broken arm is a very common accident at all times and in every station of life. Some of the varieties are con- sidered inider various headings {see " Elbow Joint," "Shoulder Joint"). It remains, there- fore, to consider the fractures of the shaft of the bone. These fractures are eitlier primary or secondary. The primary fractures are caused by direct violence, as by blows; by indirect violence from falls upon the arm and hand, or they may be the I'esult of muscular action. Secondary fractures are not uncommon in per- sons aftected with scirrhiis of the breast when they are due to secondary deposits of cancer, which so weaken the bone that it is broken by a very slight degree of force. The primary fractures are generally simple, and they are either oblique, transverse, or comminuted, the amovmt of displacement varying with each variety being least in the transverse and most in the oblique form. The displacement varies, too, with the position of the fracture, so that surgeons have been inclined to classify fractures of the shaft of the humerus into fractures above and fractures below the insertion of the deltoid, owing to the traction exercised by this muscle. Although the nature of the injury is usually quite obvious, for there is pain, increased mobility, deformity, and shortening, it is some- times difficult to recognise a broken arm, as in the case of a rickety child, where the fracture is often ti'ansverse without rupture of the thickened periosteum and the bone is already deformed by rickets. The jirofinosia is good in the vast majority of cases, though the patient should be warned that there is some danger of non-union and of nerve complications. It may be assumed as a broad 23