414 GASTRO INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY some strabismus, and even the sudden scream of meningitis may occur, the respiration is irregular, the pulse feeble and rapid; but with all these symptoms the fontanelle is depressed. As a rule such cases are speedily fatal. No naked-eye lesion is found in the brain to account for the symptoms, which it seems probable are due to some toxcsmia from the intestinal in- fection. Tlirombosis of cerebral sinuses is a very rare complication. It occurs usually in cases where there is great exhaustion; it is but seldom re- cognised during life, the symptoms are very variable ; paralysis of cranial nerves, weakness of limbs, and convulsions have been observed, but sometimes there are no symptoms at all. An exceedingly rare complication of diarrhoea is nephritis. It occasionally occurs in veiy severe cases of cholera infantum; otherwise, except for some slight cloudy swelling in cases where there has been much pyrexia, the kidney is almost invariably healthy, although, as already pointed out, slight albuminuria is commoii. It is possible that in some cases this albuminuria is the result of mechanical irritation of the pelvis of the kidney by uric acid sand, which is very frequently found in the urine during life and in the pelvis of the kidney after death in these cases. Prognosis.—-In all cases of diarrhoea in infancy the prognosis must be guarded. The case which at its onset looks like a mild case of simple diarrhosa may in a few days merge into the severest form of inilammatory diarrhoea. At the same time it must be remembered that a simple diarrhosa may be very severe in its onset, and may produce considerable exhaustion, with sunken eyes and depressed fontanelle, especially in very young infants, but after a few hours the symptoms may gradually subside, and in a few days there may be complete recovery. In all forms of diarrhoea, the younger the infant the less favourable is the prognosis. Continued high temperature, whether regular or irregular, in any case of diarrhoea is a serious symptom; it usually means that the case is one of inflam- matory diarrhoea, and sometimes points to the grosser lesions, such as ulceration and mem- branous inflammation, which are found in some cases of inflammatory diarrhoea. Tenderness of the abdomen also points to an inflammatory condition, and when it is well marked is an un- favourable symptom. Profound nervous disturbance, especially apathy or stupor, is a very grave symptom. Convulsions are serious, but do not necessarily mean a fatal result; their significance is less grave when they occur at the onset of the diar- rhoea than when they occur in the stage of exhaiistion and prostration. Choleraic diarrhoea is always a grave disease; a very large proportion of such cases are fatal. Diagnosis.—In some cases of chronic diar- rhea it is extremely difficult to determine whether the diarrhoea is due to tuberculous ulceration of the bowel. A gastro-intestinal catarrh from faulty diet is very much commoner in infancj' than tuberculous disease of the intes- tine. In infants under six months of age tuber- culosis is decidedly rare, and even up to the age of nine months it is not common. The associa- tion of irregular pyrexia with a chronic diarrhoea suggests a tuberculous lesion, especially where there is a strong family history of tuberculosis, but the strongest evidence is palpable enlargement of the mesenteric glands or the presence of some definite tuberculous lesion elsewhere. In most cases the question cannot be decided during life, and one can only say that the vast majority of the cases of chronic diarrhoea in infancy are non- tuberculous. Typhoid fever is so rare in infancy, and when it does occur is so much more often associated with constipation than with diarrhoea, that it is hardly likely to cause any trouble in diagnosis; the continuous or remittent pyrexia lasting ten days or a fortnight will usually serve to distinguish it from chronic gastro-intestinal catarrh, and other symptoms of typhoid, en- larged spleen, rose spots, or a positive result with Widal's reaction, may assist the diagnosis. The frequency with which mucus and streaks of blood are present in the stools in diarrhosa with affection specially of the colon is note- worthy ; these appearances do not always indi- cate an intussusception, but on the other hand the occurrence of an intussusception has been mistaken for the onset of a gastro-intestinal catarrh, and the presence of mucus and blood on the stools has been made light of, with dis- astrous result. Such an error can be avoided only by careful examination of the abdomen for the presence of the characteristic tumour. The presence of ulceration in the bowel cannot be determined clinically; it is not even possible to determine with any accuracy during life which part of the intestine is affected. Such terms as ileocolitis, ulcerative or membranous colitis, have a definite meaning for the patho- logist, but are of very little practical value for the clinician. In a general way it may be said that an acute course with a very high tempera- ture, the passage of mucus and streaks of blood in the fseces, and tenderness along the course of the colon, point to some intense inflammation of the lai'ge intestine, but a case may show all these symptoms during life, and yet show nothing post-mortem beyond slight congestion of the mucous membrane of the intestine. Morbid Anatomy.—The most striking feature in the morbid anatomy of the diarrhoea of in- fancy is the extreme disproportion between the naked-eye lesions found post-mortem and the severity of the clinical symptoms. In the most acute form of all, choleraic diarrhoea, the intestine usually shows nothing abnormal be- yond pallor of the mucous membrane. In many