247 FALLOPIAN TUBES the varieties of this disease is of necessity highly artificial. But the forms of saljaingitis present confusing variations. Hence some kind of arrangement of the different types of inflamma- tion of the tubes is necessary and convenient. Bacteriological Classification. — Salpingitis cannot be safely classified according to the microbe that causes or is supposed to cause it. Autlioritics on bacteriology are by no means agreed as to the part which germs play in dis- eases of the genital tract. Actinomycosis of the tulie may, however, be set apart as essentially a salpingitis caused by a specific organism. In Zcemau's case the right tube was converted into a sac as thick as a finger, full of pus and lined with granulation tissue containing actino- niyces. Classification in relation to Pelvic Inflamma- tion.—Salpingitis is, of course, one of the forms of pelvic inflammation. It has little or nothing to do with parametritis (cellulitis), is often closely associated with ovarian inflammation, and is still more nearly related to perimetritis (pelvic peri- tonitis). Nevertheless salpingitis appears in difierent forms which demand special classifica- tion. The relation of salpingitis to the moi'c general types of pelvic inflammation will be found described under the proper headings. Classification according to the Patency or Ob- struction of the Tubal Canal.—This is the most convenient classification of salpingitis. It is open to one great objection, for hydrosalpinx is sometimes caused by occlusion of the ostium from without, as will be shown, and may prob- abh^ develop without any essentially inflam- matory changes in the tube. Nevertheless it remains the most convenient and scientific method of classification, especially when the varieties ai'c placed in the following order :—■ (i.) Canal of Tnbe Unobstructecl.—A. Catar- rhal salpingitis. B. Purulent salpingitis. (ii.) Canal of Tube Obstructed.—A. Hydro- salpinx. B. Pyosalpinx. C. Hsematosalpinx. D. Cystic salpingo-oophoritis, or inflammatory tubo-ovarian cyst. Catarrhal Salpingitis.—In this very distinct disease changes are observed in the mucosa such as are familiar to the pathologist in catarrhal afiections of other mucous membranes. The ejiithelium is shed, but not desti'oyed ; the sub- epitlielial tissue becomes infiltrated. The mus- cular coat is also the seat of inflannnatory exudation, but in chronic cases it hyperti'ophies. The serous coat usually participates in the in- flannnatory thickening, yet it is sometimes seen thin and not adherent to the muscular tissue of the tube. AVhen thickened, the change may be due to peritonitis from elsewhere. In recent salpingitis mucus is found in the tul)al canal, and may be seen issuing from the ostium. This escape of infiammatory mucus does not neces- sarily cause peritonitis, as catarrhal salpingitis is rarely if ever septic. In consequence of the infiltration into its tissues the tube is elongated, but being confined in the folds of the meso- salpinx which it does not stretch it usvially becomes tortuous. This appearance is char- acteristic of salpingitis witliout obstruction, and contrasts strongly with the stretching of the tube and the mesosalpinx over parovarian cysts and with the opening up of the mesosalpinx by the tiibe when the latter is dilated and ob- structed. In chronic catarrhal salpingitis the tortuous walls of the tube become very tough through sclerotic changes. Sometimes earthy salts are deposited in the submucous tissue so that the tube feels gritty. In securing an ovarian pedicle where the tube is afiected in this manner the ligature is apt to cut through its brittle walls. The accumulation of mucus in the canal sometimes causes internal obstruc- tion of the tube. Earth salts mixing up with the inspissated mucus a tubal calcidus is formed. As in chronic cases the hyi^ertrophy of the muscidar coat is never luiiform, the tube seems knotty. The edges of the plica3 of the thickened mucous membrane often unite, enclosing spaces lined with epithelium. Sometimes warty growths develop on the surface of the mucous membrane. As a rule they are minute and sparse; but in rarer cases they develop into exuberant masses which take on the characters of a papillomatous timiour essentially innocent though liable after a time to undergo malignant degeneration. Catarrhal salpingitis may continue for a long period without assiuning the suppurative type of the same disease. Purulent salxnngitis is sometimes a late stage of catarrhal inflanmiation, but may without doubt be primary, the discharge being purulent from the iirst. It may also continue indefinitely without any obstruction of the ostium. On separating inflamed appendages fi'om old peri- metritic adhesions it is not rare to see muco-pus exude from the perfectly open abdominal ostium of the tube. In short, j^urulent salpingitis is not to be looked upon as necessarily the first stage of pyosalpinx. In purulent salpingitis the epithelium is freely destroyed and replaced by granulation tissue. This destructive process is, howevei', seldom complete, as wide tracts of epithelium are often detected in very chronic cases. The plica; tend, even more than in catarrhal salpingitis, to unite at their edges and enclose cavities bearing the tulial epithelium. Small-celled infiltration of the subepithelial con- nective tissue, moderate in the catarrhal form, is marked in suppurative inflanunation of the tube. Closure of the Ostium.—Want of space forbids us to dwell on the more minute pathological changes observed in salj^ingitis, though it will be presently explained how names have been bestowed on sub-varieties of salpingitis where one particular change jiredominates. But the mechanism by which the abdominal ostium is