16 ECTOPIC GESTATION The time when the membrane is passed varies. It is very seldom that it is retained until full term and passed when false labour sets in. More frequently it is discharged in the early weeks, whether the gestation goes to full term or not. Its passage may be accompanied by haemorrhage and pain, but the pain may be entirely absent. The author's own experience has not led him to associate the passing of the decidua with any special change in the preg- nancy. Further History of a groiving Tubal Preg- nancy.—The possible results of a tubal pregnancy are shown in the following table :— 1. The ovum may die early in the tube owing to its foreign surroundings, and as a result may form a hrematosalpinx and a tubal mole, or may be the cause of an intra-peritoneal htematocele. 2. The tube may rupture. (a) Early rupture—2nd to 6th week. Woman has some shock, but is not seriously ill, and may recover quickly. Foetus, etc. is absorbed. Later rupture—8th to 12th week. (1) Into peritoneal cavity. Woman usually dies in a few hours if not operated upon. If mother survive : (a) Foetus may live and may go on to full term if placenta remains attached. (6) Foetus more often dies and becomes ab- sorbed ; lithopoedion, etc. (2) Between layers of broad ligament. Woman seldom dies: (a) Foetus may live and grow, becoming subperitoneo-pelvic, and later sub- peritoneo-abdominal. (Jj) Foetus may die and undergo any of the usual changes, (c) Sac may rupture a second time intra-peritoneally, and this is usuallj' fatal to the mother. 1. Tubal Mole. — During the development of a tubal pregnancy the life of the foetus is in constant danger, and is especially so until the foetal membranes are well formed. The chorionic villi have but a loose attachment to the tube and are easily separated. Haemorrhage into the sac or between the membranes may occur and prove fatal to the continuation of the gestation. This when it takes place very early (from the first to the third week) is the most favourable termination possible for the pregnancy, and may give rise to practically no symptoms whatever, and the patient may experience no discomfort. Such an apoplectic ovum appears at first sight as simply a blood-clot, but such bodies are known as "tubal moles," and careful examina- tion reveals their true character. If the preg- nancy is further advanced when the haemorrhage into the ovum and the formation of a mole occurs, the attending danger to the mother is much greater, as the accompanying haemorrhage into the tube may cause rupture of the tube and the rapid death of the patient. Tubal moles, if recent in origin, are found to contain an embryo. But after a time, especially if the mole has been extruded into the abdominal cavity or into the broad ligament, the foetal tissue may become completely disintegrated, and it may be impossible to recognise any of these except the chorionic villi, which are most persistent, and may be found long after all evidence of their origin has disappeared. These villi present the same appearances as those of a uterine pregnancy. If the blighted ovum remains in the tube, though the pregnancy becomes abortive it is by no means harmless. It causes constant irrita- tion of the tissues to which it is attached, and may be the cause of frequent haemorrhages into the abdominal cavity and into the lumen of the tube, while inflammatory changes are set up in all the organs, which become matted together, and along with blood-clot and inflammatory deposit form a complete mass. Intra-peritoneal Hematocele.—No doubt the commonest cause of intra-peritoneal haemorrhage is a tubal pregnancy; it may be the result of rupture or of a bleeding from the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The latter cause is the more frequent, and is caused by the presence of a mole in the tube. In these cases of haemorrhage from the ostium it is generally moderate in amount, and a well-defined haemato- cele is formed. In the case of rupture the haemorrhage is so copious and so diffiise that unless the patient is operated on she dies before there is time for the formation of a defined blood tumour. Taylor gives the following statistics:—Out of 21 cases of intra-peritoneal haematocele due to tubal pregnancy, 14 were due to ha3morrhage from an unruptured tube, while 7 were associated with rupture. Culling- worth states :—" Of 25 cases of pelvic haemato- cele in which an opportunity occurred of verifying by actual inspection the source of the bleeding, 2.3 were instances of haemorrhage from the open abdominal ostium of a pregnant Fallopian tube, and only 1 was due to rupture." Blood effused into the abdominal cavity comes to form a definite tumour by local peritonitis being set up around it and binding the pelvic and abdominal viscera to each other and to the blood-clot. The outer layer of the blood-clot solidifies and forms a capsule which may in turn rupture, allowing a fresh intra-peritoneal htemorrhage to occur. On the other hand, the blood within the sac may be absorbed and only the capsule remains adherent to the Fallopian tube. 2. Rupture. — (a) Early Rupture. — It has been stated that one result of a tubal pregnancy is the formation of a "tubal mole," and the possible results of that condition have been described, But very frequently an accident occurs at a still earlier period than that at which a mole is formed, which terminates the pregnancy. This is what is known as ea,rly rupture of the tube. It occurs from the second to the sixth week, and is quite distinct from what is known as later rupture, which takes