EYEBALL, INJUEIES OF 218 water, a strong syrupy solution of sugar is the best thing to employ at first, or failing that, we may use vinegar. No bandage should be applied, as it favours the formation of synible- pharon, and once or twice each day a probe is used to prevent or break down adhesions. A solution of atropine in olive oil, four grains to the ounce, should be freely applied several times a day with a brush. The lids are often hard, infiltrated, and swollen, rendering it very difficult or impossible to fully evert the upper lid, and hot fomentations are here grateful and useful. If the conjunctival surfaces are burnt back to the sulcus, it is quite impossible to prevent imion, and one must rely upon some plastic operation later on to cure or alleviate the symblepharon. In the case of burns by acids we use a 1 per cent solution of carbonate of soda to flush out the conjunctival sac, and in the case of alkalies warm milk is the best thing to use. In all severe burns during the separation of the slough a warm solution of corrosive sub- limate (1 in 5000) must be freely used, and if the eye is already lost and the pain is severe hot antiseptic poultices do good. In the most severe cases of burn with molten iron or lime, with deep sloughing and con- sequent perforation in the corneo-scleral region, one may have to enucleate the eye, as sympa- thetic disease is liable to take place. After watching a solar eclipse without the precaution of using very dark spectacles, damage may accrue to the delicate structure of the retina, shown in the least severe cases by the persistence for hours or days of an after-image of the sun in the form of a golden disc, most noticeable in the dark. No changes can be detected in the eye, and confinement to a darkened room for a few days will effect a com- plete cure. In more severe cases we get a decided reduction of sight, the presence of a positive scotoma in the centre of the field of vision, and a " trembling " of objects looked at such as is produced by hot air. The ophthalmo- scope shows at the macula a white, burnt-like spot which disappears in a few days, leaving the macula more sharply defined and of a darker red than natural, often with one or two minute greyish flecks; the foveal reflex is abolished. These changes ai-e without doubt the direct and immediate result of the light of the sun focussed on the fundus, and in some recorded cases the grey fleck on the macula has taken the form of a half-moon, exactly like the sun at the begin- ning of an eclipse. In the course of a week or ten days central vision has usually considerably improved, but some amoiint of defect remains permanently, and in two of Haab's cases vision was only one-third and one-fifth of normal re- spectively after so long a period as ten years. The ill eftects of the electric light are seen in those whose duty it is to adjust strong arc lights of say 2000 candle-power. The first, result of incautious exposure of the eyes is a dazzling and partial blindness, everything looked at having a yellowish cast; this is followed in, six to nine hours by intolerable smarting pain and a feeling of grit in the eyes, profuse lachry- mation, swelling, and redness of the lids, chemosis of the ocular conjunctiva, hypersemia. and even actual inflammation of the iris, with the formation of adhesions to the lens capsule. Iced compresses are the best thing to use at the start, followed by the instillation of a mixture of cocaine and atropine when the crisis is. reached. Complete recovery always takes place. The effects of lightning on the eyes are very numerous, and comprise superficial burns of the lids and cornea, blepharospasm and intolerance of light, conjunctival injection and corneal cloudiness, iritis and cyclitis, cataract, spasm, or paralysis of accommodation, mydriasis or- myosis, rupture and detachment of choroid,, vitreous opacities, retinal hypera^sthesia, and retinal ha3morrhages, pallor or hyperremia of disc, neuritis and atrophy, paralysis of muscles, and ptosis. Some of these effects are mechanical in their origin, others are thermic, chemical, or catalytic. The most frequent and important are clouding of the cornea and opacity of the lens; in a case reported by Silex both conditions were present, but partially cleared away in eleven months; and in Denig's case the double parenchymatous keratitis totally disappeared in. four weeks. The cataract is usually bilateral, may be com- plete or incomplete, and in the latter case may rarely retrogress. The origin of the catai'act is probably not alike in every case ; it has been regarded as a " concussion cataract" by some,, from coagulation of the albumin, as secondary to injury of the ciliary body, and on experi- mental evidence Hess believes it is due to de- struction of the capsular epithelium. Extraction is followed by satisfactory healing, but the visual result is often poor on account, of coincident injury of the uveal tract or optic nerve. Eyelashes. See Eyelids, Affections of- (Trichiasis, etc.). Eyelids, Affections of. Development, Anatomy, and Physiology 219' Congenital Defects— Coloboma . . . . . 220- Dermoids ..... 220 Epicanthus, etc. . . . .220' Affections of the Skin of the Lids— Erysipelas . . , . . . 220' Herpes 220- Eczema 221 Abscess, Ulcers .... 221 Oedema, etc 222' Affections of the Glands of the Lids— Sycosis Tarsi .... 222;