150 EPIDEMIOLOGY spring,,'but how this should be the case has still to be discovered. The seasonal movements of whooping-cough are different from those of small-pox and measles. In Europe generally, this disease is most pre- valent in the first or second quarter, in the United States in the third quarter. , Influenza is so erratic in its visitations that 1880. and Central Europe in February, and attain their maximum in April and May, a season when insects of the mosquito species are little in evidence. The laws regulating the seasonal fluctuations of epidemic diseases may be thus stated: Dis- eases of the infectious group are most prevalent in the seasons when the climatic conditions 1884. < m u tc a. O a 1- >o 3 i*i o o UJ z a u E < V < - >j a < J_ c > z o a » C T-J^O) o = o ■t a K K > S JULY AUO. SEP. OCT NOV. 1 2 a DC a: 1 ^ 11. a < > r O a. H > o (J o o ■] -) < CO o z o f \ f- f 1 s Chart IV.—Sloiithly intimations of Measles (Eilinburgli) for the several years 1880-84. (Littlejohn.) there is little time to study its seasonal evolu- tion in any particular locality. It has been thought by some that its prevalence is un- affected by season. This is a mistake. A very full record of epidemics of influenza has been compiled by Hirsch. It will be found from a study of these that epidemics of influenza for the most part begin in winter, but as they spread they appear in a particular country earlier or later in the year, according to their distance from their point of origin. Of 14 Russian epidemics that spread to other parts of Europe, 11 began from November to January. Of 240 outbreaks in different regions in the northern hemisphere 84 occurred in the first, 45 in the second, 46 in the third, and 67 in the fourth quarter. We are justified, then, in class- ing influenza among diseases of the cold season, although it often spreads in the warmest weather. Dengue, which some have thought to be a form of influenza, differs essentially in its seasonal characters. It is not only a disease of warm countries but of the warm season. It is most prevalent in summer and.early autumn. The seasonal fluctuations of malaria, from what is known of its causation, may be in- ferred to be closely connected with the seasonal activity of the insects in which the parasite develops; but this requires further investiga- tion. In the meantime it is to be noted that malarial fevers begin to increase in Northern favour the saprophytic growth of their organisms. The seasonal fluctuations of the contagious group are determined by meteorological in- fluences predisposing the body to infection. Both of these factors are in operation in regulat- ing the seasonal movements of diseases belong- ing to the contagious-infectious group. V. Oscillations.—The evolution of an epi- demy is marked by minor and major oscillations. Small explosions at irregular intervals of days are doubtless caused by a spark of the infection falling accidentally upon an accumulation of combustible material. The major oscillations are more regular, and have been shown by Ransome to correspond to a large extent in places so far apart as London and Manchester. They appear to be caused by weather. The Law of ANTiciPArioN.—Sydenham re- marked that "if fevers, continued or inter- mittent, appear unnaturally early, the season that follows will be exceedingly favourable to the development of epidemics." We have satisfied ourselves that this law holds good as respects intermittent fevers in India. In years when malarial fevers are epidemic they in- variably begin to increase before their usual period. But this law is of much wider appli- cation. An anticipation in the usual period of rise is observed in the case of most contagious diseases in this country in epidemic years. The rise in scarlet fever, for example, begins a month