35 ECZEMA is seen to be in various stages : tirtit, vesicles, broken and unbroken ; beyond this, briglit red papules; and, still farther away from tlie focus of disturbance, hypericmic spots (maculfc). On the outeriuost margin of the disturbed area the epithelium may appear more translucent than normal, and here and there a streak of a capil- lary can be seen. Sooner or later fusion oceui's of all the several spongy spots where the irrita- tion has been greatest, and a uniformly reddened patch is formed, the surface of which is rongh and scaly, with dry, or drying, scales adhering, and here and there a glazed, smooth spot. Usually there are marks of excoriation where tlie finger-nails have been. The margin of the patch slopes gradually down into the pale skin, and is siirroinided, usually, by many isolated red papules and spongy points. In acute eczema witli a high degree of infectivity (non-bacterial) tlie inflammation spreads fairly symmetrically on both sides of the body, also upwards and downwards. Thus eczema starting behind one knee will soon appear beliind the other, and will tend to spread up the thigh and down the leg. Acute eczema of the genitals tends to spread upwards on to the abdomen, and down- wards on to the thighs. Acute eczema of the scalp tends to descend over the forehead, ears, and face to the neck and shoulders. Acute eczema in any part of the cutaneous surface is apt to be followed by the development of eczema in anj^ region, the surface of which has been weakened by injurious habits of life, or by previous attacks of eczema. The practical bear- ing of this is obviously that in all cases of acute local eczema we should examine cai'efully from time to time all regions exposed to friction, heat, or the macerating action of perspiration. In rare cases eczema becomes almost imiversal. It is remarkal)le how little constitutional dis- turbance accompanies even the worst forms of disease. In cases where its development is rapid and extensive there may be considerable nervous excitement, which may show itself in trembling of the limbs and in mental irritability. This is specially marked in alcoholic patients, and in persons of neui'otic temperament. But there is no fever and no decided feeling of luiwellness. 2. Chronic or Lom-Fresmre Eczema.—Most dermatologists are agreed that eczema is essen- tially a chronic process subject to acute exacer- bations. It is always slow and insidious in its development, although the actual attack may ajjpear acute and sudden. When the high pressure period is passed it sinks into the in- dolent, stagnatory condition, which is the most marked of the characters of eczema. There are many clinical varieties of chronic eczema. The intrinsic (non-parasitic) forms, with which we are alone here concerned, are the papular, the indurated, the cornified, and tlie follicular. (1) 77te Papular Form.—Eczema may begin, continue, and end as a papular eruption. The papules are conical, romid-topped elevations of a brighter or darker red colour developing in close jjroximity, and varying in size from a small to a large pin's head. The eruption was formerly known as Jirlieii. simplex. In certain regions of the body, e.i/. the shoulders, they may acquire a smooth, flat-topped aspect, to which Brooke has drawn special attention. Eczematous papules are, as a rule, indolent and persistent. Where overcrowded they run together to form a dense infiltrated patch. The itching is severe, in some cases intolerable and maddening, and leads to violent scratching. Hence in these cases the papules are usually crowned with a minute blood scab. After pro- longed or violent scratching the eruption may acquire in some regions quite a peculiar lichen- oid aspect, well described by Brocq of Paris, in which there is great induration of the skin, with deepening and intensification of the sur- face lines and furrows. (2) Indurated. Form.—Eczema does not neces- sarily involve the derma; for it is essentially an epithelial-neuro-capillary aflair. When the process involves the derma it results in a sclerosis or fibrosis. In these cases an addi- tional factor, the nature of which is still uncertain, comes into oj^eration. Dermal in- duration does not altogether depend on time. Some persons have a stronger tendency towards sclerosis than others. The difference seems to depend on inherited trophic peculiarity. In certain cases eczema passes rapidly from the acute condition into the indurated form; while in others it may persist for months without showing any tendency to pass into sclerosis. (3) Cornified Form.—In this there is a hyper- trophy of the horny layer; it is commonly met with in the palms and soles (see under Itegional Varieties for further description). (4) Follicular Form. — This was first de- scribed as a special form of the disease by Malcolm Morris. The inflammation begins in the hair follicles. Tlie eruption consists of angry-looking red papules surrounded by con- gested capillaries. Where overcrowded the papules fuse together to form i-ed patches dotted with inflamed follicles. While the in- flannnatory process spreads at the margin, resolution tends to set in at the original focus of the disease. The itching is often intense. The patches are generally nndtiple and scat- tered over the exterior surface of the arms and legs. This form is placed provisionally in the class of intrinsic eczemas, but it is not im- probable that future research may warrant its removal to the group of mycosiform eczemas. III. General Character of the Mycosiform Eczemas (^Seborrhneic Eczemas, etc.). — Some authorities are inclined to transfer these eczema- tous forms altogether from the class of true eczemas to the group of seborrhaides. They