GOUT 516 or the application of lint soaked in lin. bella- donna and tinct. opii. When these are not available, lint soaked in methylated spirit or one of the cheaper whiskies makes a fair substitute. All cold applications, blisters, leeches, and the like should be avoided. Dr. G. Balfour has found the application of steady manual pressure to the joint from the outset of symptoms to be attended with good results. Such drastic measures will probably, for obvious reasons, have only a very limited application. As soon as all acute manifestations are gone, active and passive movements of the joint should be begun steadily and persevered in. In subacute attacks the various troublesome local complications met with, e.g. thrombosis, cedema, eczema, etc., must be treated on general medical principles, but their too zealous treatment is to be deprecated. Illustrations of Treatment From the foregoing outline of treatment it will be evident that the therapeutic measures vary enormously with the different stages and very diverse manifestations of the disease. As previously stated, every case of gout is a new problem in therapeutics. I have thought it well to give further point to this by recording in detail a series of illustrative cases, and have selected a few which have been under my observation for a lengthened interval, so that I am in a position to speak with accuracy of the effects of the different regime recommended in each case. 1. Mr. A., 16, schoolboy.—Marked hereditary history of gout. i. Erythematous eruptions. ii. Erythema elevatum diutinum. iii. Pharyngitis and tonsillitis. iv. Nail disorders. This case is selected to illustrate some clinical features of gout in the young subject and also to emphasise the rational prophylactic treatment of the disease. The patient is a tall, big-boned, muscular subject whose weight is distinctly above the average for his height and years. He excels in athletics, being an adept football player, golfer, and swimmer. His home sur- roundings have been of the kind most favourable to the full indulgence of a keen appetite and sound digestion. His diet is plentiful and rich, and all his life he has been in the habit of drinking large quantities of milk independently of much nitrogenous food at ordinary meal times. Scotch oat cakes, butter, and jam are a special weakness. He is a total abstainer. About the age of 8 or 10 he began to show a tendency to the frequent development of " skin spots," whose onset seemed to coincide with a slight excess in diet. From the descriptions available there seems to have been discrete erythematous patches, but, whatever their nature, they soon disappeared under the influence of a purgative and restricted diet. Three years ago he was the subject of a pronounced attack of erythema, affecting especially the fingers,, back of wrist, and to a less extent the knees and upper part of face. These parts were swollen, red, burning hot, and extremely itchy. The patches on the back of the wrist were markedly raised and corresponded closely to the conditions described by Crocker, " erythema elevatum diutinum," as occurring in gouty subjects about the age of puberty. The conditions disappeared under the simple treatment above mentioned. Since that time patient has had no similar attack, probably because, on the slightest appear- ance of it, which is by no means infrequent, the necessary therapeutic measures are taken. He has found by experience that if a saline be taken sufficiently early the other remedial measure is not necessary, and he acts accordingly. The reliability of his own observations and the extent of his faith may be gauged from the fact that he seldom goes off for a holiday without a supply of his favourite mineral water. On more than one occasion when he has done so, he has felt seriously out of sorts within a very few days, the most striking objective symptoms being the development of swelling, redness, and pain in one or more fingers. I have not seen this condition ; but his mother, who has an accurate lay knowledge of the disease, affirms that it is " either gout or chilblains." She recognises no relationship between the two, and, when her inclinations lead her to write for a remedy for chilblains, all her knowledge of facts prompts her to adopt the remedies appropriate to gout. The patient is also subject to occasional attacks of inflammation of the pharynx and tonsils, the inflammation lasting for 24 or 48 hours, and resembling more the appearance of a general swelling and acute congestion than a bacterial invasion. A year ago he had some trouble with his nails. A transverse furrow developed at the roots of two of his toe nails and one finger nail, and gradually the nails were cast ofl' and replaced as after a traumatism. With regard to the diagnosis of gout in this case, while some may question its accuracy, I am perfectly satisfied that the manifestations of disease described are directly due to the patient's gouty proclivities. It is a case of gout in the young and robust subject. The case admirably illustrates the treatment appropriate to the disease. It is clear that his symptoms tend to develop after a slight or marked excess in diet, more especially if jams or other sweets have been largely consumed, on which occasions there have been no abate- ment in the amount of red meats and other nourishing foods. The saline, which may some- times be associated advantageously with blue pill, acts beneficially in two or three ways. It removes from the alimentary canal certain toxic substances produced locally as a result of