188 EUCALYPTUS GUM Eucalypti Gummi, in relaxed throats; it is also employed as a decoction, a liquid extract, and in the form of suppositories and vaginal and rectal douches. Eucalyptus Oil.—Oleum Eucalypti is obtained from several Australian species of Eucalyptus (including the E. globulus, or blue gum tree); it contains eucalyptol (a volatile oil), a resin, tannin, and cineol (CjyHjgO); there is an official preparation (Unguentum Eucalypti), and the oil itself is given in doses of ^ to 3 m.; internally it acts as an antiseptic, an anti- periodic, an expectorant, and a carminative, and it has been used in bronchitis, coryza, pyelitis, and malaria; externally it is an antiseptic, and may be used in the form of gauze, as a solution, or as an ointment. " Mulyptol" is a pro- prietary preparation ; it is said to be a eucalyptus oil of great purity and high therapeutic and oxygenating properties; it is given in doses of 2 to 3 m. on loaf sugar or in emulsion. Euchinin. >.S'ee Euquinine. Euchromatopsia. — Normal colour vision, as opposed to colour-blindness. Eudermol.—A proprietary preparation used in certain skin diseases; said to be nicotine salicylate. EudOXSn. — A proprietary preparation, said to be a bismuth salt of nosophen ; recom- mended, in doses of 5 to 8 grains, in cases of intestinal irritation, such as enteritis. Euformal.—A proprietary preparation containing formaldehyde and other substances, used as an antiseptic. Eug'eniCS.—The science of well-begetting, good breeding, or the procreation of the fittest, as regards the human race. Francis Galton seems to have been the first to use the word in this sense. In the Huxley Memorial Lecture (1901) he proposed a system of dowries to make possible the early marriage of girls of a favoured stock (as regards health). Before, however, much can be done either in the way of favour- ing the marriage of the fit, or preventing the marriage (or, at least, the fruitful marriage) of the unfit, our knowledge of antenatal hygiene and of antenatal pathology must be greatly widened and remarkably sj'stematised and defined. At the present time we do not know the laws which go to the making of a normal, healthy infant who shall be free from hereditary taints, for we not infrequently are surprised by the birth of a healthy baby to parents who are not of the best stock, and disappointed by the procreation of a deformed or diseased infant by apparently healthy parents. EugfenOl. — Eugenol, or eugenic acid, (CjqHj.^O,,) is a phenol-like substance contained in the oil of cloves, the oil of cinnamon, and the oil of pimento; it has been used as an antiseptic and antipyretic. Eug'Uform. — Acetilated diguaiacol of methylene, recommended to allay pain and itching in some skin diseases. Euhemerism.—The theory according to which " myths are regarded as traditional accounts of real incidents in human history"; by this theory the teratological appearances of many of the heathen gods and goddesses are to be explained by the birth in early times of mal- formed foetuses {e.g. Cyclops or Polyphemus and the cyclopic infant). Eumydrin. — A powder obtained from atropine, which acts as a mydriatic, and is said to be less poisonous than atropine. Eunatrol.—A proprietary preparation of oleate of sodium, given in doses of 2 to 4 grains, as a cholagogue, and said to be beneficial in cases of colic from gall-stones. Euonymisi. See also Cholagogues ; Pharmacology ; etc. — Extractum Euonymi Siccum, derived from the bark of Euonymus atropurpureus. Dose—1-2 grs. It contains a bitter principle, some resin, and a small amount of fixed oil. Although Euonymin possesses some action as a bitter stomachic, it is as a purgative that it is almost exclusively employed. It is said to increase the flow of bile, and is specially recommended in cases of biliousness associated with constipation. It is usually prescribed in combination with calomel or other cholagogue. Eupareunia.—The condition in which sexual congress occurs without pain, as opposed to dysj^areunia {q.v.). Eupepsia.—Normal digestion, as opposed to dyspepsia (q-v.). Euphthalmine.—An alkaloid (CjyH.jjNOg), the hydrochloride of which acts as a mydriatic; its use has been observed to be followed by acute glaucoma (H. W. Ring, Med. Neivs, vol. Ixxxiii. p. 82, 1903). EupnOSa.—Normal respiration, neither dyspnoea nor apnoea. See Asphyxia {Defini- tion). Euquinine. — Ethyl - carbonic ester of quinine; it is tasteless, and is used, as the hydrochloride or the tannate, in malaria, per- tussis, etc. ; it is only slightly soluble in water. Europhen.—A non-official substance, act- ing like iodoform as an antiseptic; it contains 28 per cent of iodine. Eurygnathism. — The condition in which the upper jaw is broad.