116 EMULSION of oil or resin by the aid of some albviminoiis or gummy material " {Sydenham Soc. Lexicon); the liquid must have a high specific gravity; and when the particles consist of a heavy powder the result is called a suspension rather than an emulsion (e.g. Lotis hydrargyri nigra); mucil- age of acacia is often used to form emulsions. See Prescribing. EmunctOrieS. — The excretory organs {e.g. the kidneys); the nose (in sneezing) used to be called the "emunctory of the brain." Ena.inel> See Teeth {Anatomy). Ena.rthrOSiS.—A diarthrodial joint (such as the hip), freely movable in all directions; a ball and socket articulation. Enca.nthiS.—A tumour or swelling of the caruncle near to the inner canthus of the eye; it may be benign, malignant, or due to a concretion. Enceinte.—Pregnant (Lat. incincta, un- girt). Encephalitis. See Brain, Inflamma- tions {Encephalitis, Acute and Chronic); Head- ache ; Paralysis {Cerebral Diplegia, Causcction, Foetal Encephalitis). Encepha.iOCeie.—A cephalocele con- taining part of the cerebrum or of the cere- bellum ; an illustration is given on Plate facing p. 78 of Vol. II. See Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele, Encephalocele) ; Hydrocephalus {Complications); Labour, Faults in the Pas- senger {Malfoi-mations, Encepjhalocele) ; Orbit, Diseases of {Tumours, Encephalocele). Encephclioid.—Resembling brain sub- stance ; usually applied to a variety of soft cancer. Encephalopathy. — Brain - disease, especially when due to disease of some other part of the body or of a constitutional kind; it is commonly used in connection with the cerebral symptoms produced by lead-poisoning {Saturnine encepjhalopathy). See Trades, Dan- gerous {Lead-Poisoning, SymptonMtology). Encephalotomy. See Cephalotomy. Enchondroma.—A neoplasm com- posed of cartilaginous tissue. See Tumours {Conyiective Tissue Typie, Chondromata); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Passages, Pelvic Enchondromata); Mediastinum {Mediastinal Growths, Enchondroma); Orbit, Diseases of {Tumours, Solid, Enchondroma); Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours, Enchondroma). Enclavement.—The embedding in the body cavities (during early antenatal life) of parts or derivatives of parts which are normally external; a theory of teratogenesis used to ex- plain such developmental anomalies as dermoid cysts of the ovaries or of the brain. See Teratology. Encystment.—The state of becoming or being enclosed in a sac or cyst, e.g. an encysted hernia {vide Hernia, Conditions of), or encysted hydrocele (Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases, Hydrocele). Endarteritis. — Inflammation of the internal coat of an artery. See Aneurysm {Etiology, Chronic Arterial Disease, Endarteritis Deformans); Arteries, Diseases of {Endarteritis Deformans, Obliterative Endarteritis); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Cerebral Hccmor- rhage. Etiology); Insanity, Pathology of {Pathological Anatomy, Cerebral Blood- Vessels); Spinal Cord, Medical {Morbid Anatomy, Vas- cular Lesions); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Ulceration, Morbid Anatomy). End-Bulb. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology' {Terminal Cor^mscles, Tactile). Endemic.—The term applied to diseases which prevail in certain places, as opposed to pandemic diseases which exist everywhere. See Epidemiology {Introductory, Definitions); He- maturia (" Endemic "). Endermic. IVIedication.—The ap- plication of drugs to the skin, either with the epidermis still present (by friction), or after it has been removed by means of a blister, when absorption is possible. EndO-appendicitiS. — Inflammation of the lining membrane of the appendix vermi- formis. Endocarditis. See Heart, Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Endocarditis and Malignant Endocarditis); Bone, Diseases of {Acute Osteomyelitis, Complications); Chorea {Etiology, Rheumatism and Endocarditis); Choroid, Diseases of {Suppurative Choroiditis in Ulcerative Endocarditis); Lung, Tuberculosis {Complications, Endocarditis); Malaria {Dia- gnosis, Ulcerative Endocarditis); Pneumonia, Clinical {CompAications); Pregnancy, Intra- uterine Diseases {Foetal Endocarditis); Puer- PERiUM, Pathology {Ulcerative Endocarditis); Purpura {Symptomatic, Infectious, Malignant Endocarditis); Rheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Endocarditis); Rheumatism in Children {Symptoms, Endocarditis); Syphilis. {Tertiary, Pathology, Vascular System); Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis, Ulcerative Endocarditis); Urethra, Diseases of {Gonorrhoea, Com- plications). Endocardium. See Heart, Physio- logy ; Physiology, Circulation {Heart, Endo- cardium).