EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF 206 moment at which diplopia appears as this fixation object approaches the eyes. The ap- pearance of diplopia indicates that one eye has ceased to fix the object.' The examinee may in some cases have a reason for making out that the vision of one eye is worse than it really is, or he may even feign monocular blindness. In all cases in which any malingering is suspected the surgeon should pretend to direct his attention solely to the eye which is not complained of. By placing in front of this some glass with which it is impossible for the patient to see, and making him read the types, he can generally ascertain exactly how much sight there is in the eye which is alleged to be defective. In such cases also a prism, placed before the admittedly sound eye with its base upwards or downwards, will produce diplopia. Another test, having the same object, consists in looking at a word composed of red and green letters arranged alternately, through similar red and green glasses placed one before each eye. The colours are complementary: the green can only be seen through the green glass, and the red through the red. If all are seen, therefore, both eyes are being used. This test is also useful after operations for squint, to see whether the patient has regained binocular vision. A much better test is afforded by the " glass- rod " of Maddox. A small cylinder of glass is fixed behind a narrow slit which is parallel to it. This is placed horizontally in front of one eye, and a candle placed at 6 metres is viewed through it. The light is seen as a vertical streak. The other eye sees the light in the natural way. The images are so dissimilar that no effort is made to combine them, the visual axes therefore assume the position of rest. By placing a graduated screen behind the candle the position of the line as compared with the flame can be made to give the angular deviation of the visual axis. For convergence in near vision Graefe's well- known line and dot test may be used. This will be described under " Ocular Muscles." A sudden and complete failure of vision occa- sionally occurs in one eye, without any objective signs, from acute retrobulbar neuritis. As this occurs most frequently in young women, and is often followed by complete recovery, it is some- times mistaken for hysteria. While the blindness persists the complete absence of direct action of the pupil should prevent such an error from being made. Colour - Vision.—Careful investigation of the state of colour-vision is frequently of the greatest importance from the point of view of diagnosis. A familiar example is seen in toxic amblyopia from tobacco {vide " Amblyopia "). Apart from its use as a diagnostic measure, great importance is attached to it in connection with various occupations, e.g. railwaymen, seamen. This subject is elsewhere fully discussed {vide "Colour-Vision "). Examination of the visual Jields often affords important indications, and should never be omitted in cases of failure of vision, of which the cause is obscure, or when disease of the nervous system is suspected. The examination should discover the peripheral limitation of the fields, and the existence of any abnormal gaps in it (scotomata) either for white or colour. To be complete, it should also include the fields for the primary colours, but in the majority of cases this is not required. Any abnoi'mality of the visual fields can be detected without any special apparatus, in the manner that will be described presently, but to record the result accurately a perimeter is necessary. Various modifications of the perimeter have been designed, but its essential features are a quadrant, graduated in degrees up to 90°, which can be revolved round the point marked zero; and some arrangement by which the eye under examination can be kept in the centre of the circle of which the graduated bar forms a quadrant, so that its visual axis is directed to zero. If in these circumstances the quadrant be revolved, it evidently will describe a hemi- sphere in the centre of which is the eye under examination. For recording the results a chart is required. This consists of a series of radii indicating the various positions of the quadrant, and of concentric circles indicating angular degrees on each radius. The field is recorded by marking on a sufficient number of the radii the point at which the test-object becomes visible, and subsequently connecting these points by lines. During the examination care must be taken that the eye under examination gazes steadily at zero, commonly called the "fixation point," where there should be fixed some small but con- spicuous object. The test-object should always be moved from the blind towards the seeing area. If it is removed in the reverse direction the retention of the mental image will make the field appear larger than it really is. The test-object should not be moved too rapidly, and care should be taken that its movement is not audible. Various devices are in use for facilitating the recording of the results, some perimeters being called " self-registering," because in them the record is made by some simple movement, as by pressing the chart against a pricker. Carefully prepared perimeter charts often afford a most valuable means of seeing at a glance the progress of a case. For the purpose of differential diagnosis, however, the following simple plan, which re- quires no special apparatus, will suffice. The surgeon faces the patient at a distance