GANGRENE 395 life is crushed out of a part; and indirect, where the gangrene occurs at some distance from the seat of the vessel injured. When a part is so severely contused that it is likely soon to be gangrenous, it becomes cold, insen- sible, and soon its function is interfered with. At the same time there is the change of colour already described. Most forms of direct trau- matic gangrene assume the moist characters. They are generally aseptic or become so, because it is so difficult to cleanse the parts thoroughly, and carters and that class are those in whom it is most often seen. Direct gan^-rene must not be confused with acute inflammatory or spreading traumatic gan- grene, which has special features due to a special micro-organism, but the term must l)e applied to those cases where so much injury is inflicted on the vessels and tissues that death occurs. The chief causes of indirect traumatic gan- grene are :—(«) Injuries to the main artery and vein. This is seen frequently in the case of the popliteal or lower femoral arteries, whei'e a compound fracture tears both vein and artery ; or it may be that blood is efl^'used to such an extent that it presses on both main artei-y and main vein and so obstructs the flow of blood within them, (i) Ligature of a main artery in some people will cause gangrene, (c) Throm- l/osis similarly may cause gangrene. If occur- ring after an injury to a main artery at some distance from where the gangrene exists, it would come under this heading. (ii.) Senile r/anr/rene is one of the commonest forms of gangrene met with. It arises generally from slight injuries to the feet of old people. The calibre of the arteries of the aged becomes very nmch curtailed from atheroma, and added to this there may be varicose veins or some chronic bronchitis and emphysema. In such a patient anything that upsets the circulation and tends to clotting of blood, either in the large or small arteries, will cause gangrene of toes or foot. The change occurs sometimes in the nose, hands, or tongue, as well as in the lower extremity. The writer's experience is that in the large proportion of cases of senile gangrene there will be found a small abrasion from the boot or from the cutting of a corn, which admits micro-organisms into the small veins, and these easily become thrombosed with a thrombus composed of fibrine and micrococci. This agrees with the descriptions we find of pain, and afterwards a reddish blush, which almost always precede the actual gangrene. The further history of a case of senile gan- grene is, that the patient gets ulcerations, bed- sores, a low form of septictemia, or dies of some complication, such as pneumonia, bronchitis, or exhaustion. Chemical CJiaiu/ps.—The tissues become oxi- dised in such a way that carbonic acid, annnonia. and water are the results. Valerianic, butyric, and carbolic acids are formed together with indol, skatol, etc. The gangrenous odour is thus produced. Leucin, tyrosine, margarine, and ammonio-magnesium-phosphate are also formed. (iii.) Gangrene due to sudden Ohstriiction of the Blood-vessels.—This form may be due to pressure from ivitliout, as in tight iiandaging, pressure of a fracture, or where a jjlaster of Paris bandage has been badly applied, head of a dislocated bone, or to the application of a ligature. It may also be due to obstruction irithin the vessel (embolic). In the former the limb is at first cold, it is pale in colour, and there is tingling in the peripheral nerves ; then the parts get deeper in colour, and soon become purple. Sensation is lost, and the case usually assimies the moist form. The embolus in the embolic form is usually a fibrinous vegetation, or an atheromatous plate. Neither in the case of embolus nor ligature should gangrene occur if the collateral circulation is good, but there is often present some general condition predisposing to a weak collateral circu- lation, such as endocaixlitis in rheumatic fever, or the weak heart of continued fevers. The pain in embolic gangrene is generally felt at that portion of the artery where the embolus has become impacted. This is frequently at the bifurcation of a main artery into its two divi- sions, as in the popliteal or brachial arteries. A word of advice must be given about the danger of putting severely contused fractiu-es in plaster of Paris, and sending the patients to their homes. This is a practice which is mucli in use in the (ierman hospitals, but the author has had two patients sent to him by medical men who had done this injudiciously, and gan- grene resulted in both cases. (iv.) Diabetic Gangrene.—This comes under the head of gangrene due to general causes. It may be moist or dry, is usually the former, and is due to an endarteritis and peripheral neuritis. The forerunner of grape sugar, or grape sugar itself, caiises irritation of the lining of the arterioles, and a thickening and narrow- ing of their calibre results. Micro-organisms grow very readily in diabetic patients, as is seen in the great tendency diabetics have to form carbuncles. Diabetic gangrene is as a rule more acute in its course ; there is more sloughing and inflam- mation than in the other forms. (v.) Gangrene from ergot may occiu' in epi- demics, and is due to rye being infected with claviceps fiurpurea. It is preceded often l>y intestinal symptoms, such as sickness and diarrha-a, and aftei'wards by coldness and anses- thesia of the limbs. There are two causes of this ana!sthesia and coldness — one is contrac- tion of the arterioles, the other a peripheral neuritis. It is considered V)y some that the