70 EMBOLISM paraplegia and other symptoms dependent on complete cutting off of the blood-supply from the lower extremities. The symptoms in cases of embolism of the extremities will vary accord- ing to the site of the affected vessel, and though rare, are readily recognised by the sudden onset and local disturbances induced. In some of these cases it is sometimes exceedingly difficult to distinguish between embolism and thrombosis. Embolus or EmbOlOn. See also supra. Derived from the Gr. e/x^QoAos, a stopper or plug, the name embolon or embolus signifies the solid or semi-solid mass carried by the blood-stream into a vessel (usually an artery), which it obstructs. It may be part (or the whole) of a thrombus (e.g. a vegetation on a valve of the heart or on an atheromatous patch in the aorta), or fat, or air, or a mass of tumour cells, or a piece of syncytium from the placenta, or an animal or vegetable parasite, or a foreign body. The name Retrogj-ade Eniholism is given to the condition in which the embolus is carried in the opposite direction to that of the normal blood - flow (e.g. in the inferior vena cava in tricuspid incompetence). Crossed or Paradoxical Embolism is where emboli coming from the systemic veins pass through a patent foramen ovale and, having thus reached the left auricle and ventricle, are sent out by the systemic arteries. Embrocation. — A liniment or other liquid medicinal application applied to the skin by rubbing or (less commonly) by painting, in order to remove or mitigate disease; it usually contains oil, camphor, or alcohol. Roche's embro- cation is a patent medicine, said to contain tincture of ambergris, oil of cloves, and olive oil, used in whooping cough. See Linimenta ; Prescribing ; etc. Embryectomy. — The removal of the embryo or fa'tus and its annexa in cases of ectopic gestation; it is usually performed by abdominal section. See Ectopic Gestation. EmbryO>—The new organism in the uterus before the sixth week of pregnancy in the human subject, or, less accurately, the offspring of man or of an animal before its birth (Gr. €lj./3pvov, fruit of the womb, from ev, in, and fipveiv, to grow or swell) ; it is that part of the products of conception which is destined to form the new and independent being, and therefore, strictly speaking, it does not include the mem- branes or embryonic annexa. See Ejibryology; Fcetus and Ovum, Development ; etc. EmbryOCardia.—The name given to the condition of the heart sounds when there is dilatation and weakness (as in lobar pneumonia, typhoid fever, etc.); the long pause is greatly shortened and the first and second sounds be- come very similar (Osier). Em bryOgrenesiS.—The development or formation of the embryo; in human embryology, embryogenesis occupies the first six weeks of antenatal life. See Embryology. EmbryOgraphy.—The study of devel- opment or embryogenesis by means of His' em- bryograph (a modified compound microscope for drawing large objects such as a complete embryo), or, simply, a synonym of embryology. Embryology, Human. Definition .... General Principles Chronology of Embryonic Life Blastocyst at Second Week Embryo in the Third Week Embryo in the Fourth Week Embryo in the Fifth Week . Embryo in the Sixth Week . 70 71 74 75 83 88 97 103 See also Abortion; Fcetus and Ovum, Devel- opment op ; Pregnancy, Pathology of {Affections of the Ovum and Decidua); Pregnancy, Patho- logy op {Intra-Uterine Diseases); Teratology. See also under the various organs, e.g. Genera- tion, Female Organs of (Arre.^ted Developments); Heart, Physiology of {Embryology); Palate {Congenital Malformations of Mouth, Develop- ment); Physiology, Reproduction {Develop- ment); Pregnancy, Multiple (T'm'ns); Scrotum AND Testicle {Abnormalities); Skin, Anatomy AND Physiology {Skin, Nails); Teeth {Develop- ment) ; Uterus, Malformations op {Develop- ment of Genito-Urinary Organs); etc. Embryology, if the word be used in a re- stricted sense, is the science which treats of the origin and formation of the parts and organs of the embryo. It is the study of the anatomy and physiology of embryonic life; for it has to do with the description of the parts which make up the embryo or its anatomy, as well as with the way in which these parts, often after passing through several intermediate forms, become the permanent organs of the embryo, or its physiology. It is not possible to separate the anatomical from the physio- logical part of the subject. It is quite possible, and indeed it is easy, to describe the organs and parts of the adult body, e.g. the individual bones of the skeleton, without referring to their functions, for they are fully formed and do not differ save in size at the various jjeriods of life. To attempt, however, to describe the parts of the embryo is really to picture these parts as they appear at the various stages in the development of the embryo, in other words it is to represent their progressive elaboration. When an embryologist speaks of, say, the face of the Innnan embryo, he is thinking of the five processes springing from the base of the primi- tive cerebral capsule, and gradually growing round the cavity of the stomodceum, and ulti-