FACIAL SPASM 23& the pons, or of the nerve itself, have been re- sponsible for facial spasm. In support of the alternative hypothesis that has been advanced, is the fact that has been last mentioned as militating against the cortical theory, in which connection it may be said that when the facial nerve i-ather than its nucleus has been interfered with, there is every I'eason to believe that the spasm, nevertheless, takes origin in the nucleus, which becomes deranged secondarily, for it is contrary to all known facts that irritation of the nerve-fibres should be capable of inducing such definite attacks of clonic spasm as occur in these cases, except through the agency of the nerve-cells of the facial nucleus. Another point in support of this hypothesis is the strict limitation of the spasm, in the majority of cases, to the muscles supplied by the facial nerve. As of some value and in favour of the theory now under consideration, is the fact that reflex irritation in the sphere of the fifth cranial nerve, which is specially related to the facial in reflex action, appears to generate the spasm in not a few cases. It is easier to understand that such peripheral irritations exert their influence on the facial nucleus, rather than that their influeiice is operative on the facial centre in the cerebral cortex. There are two chief arguments that have been ad- vanced against the hypothesis that supposes the spasm to originate in the facial nucleus : the one supposes such a centre as only capable of discharges which result in tonic and not clonic contraction of the muscles ; and the other points to the fact that gross cortical lesions generate facial spasm in some cases, and that the idiopathic cases generated by mental emotion ai'c most readily explained by the cortical theory. In regard to the first of these objections, I venture to submit that there is insufficient proof that a centre like the facial nucleus is incapable of discharges which are manifested liy clonic rather than tonic contraction of the muscles; and while I admit the strong force of the second argument, it does not appear to me to be absolutely fatal to the lower centre theory. It may be that gross lesions of the cortex or mental emotion only serve to weaken the in- hibiting influence exerted by the cortical centres over the subordinate facial nucleus in the pons, and thus allow of spontaneous discharge of the lower centre, in which secondary changes may further have been induced, in the cases of gross lesions of the brain. Diagnosis.—The first question to be decided is whether the case is one of true facial spasm or some condition simulating it. Having decided that it is geiuiine facial spasm, wc have next to determine whether the condition is idiopathic or the outcome of organic disease. Among the conditions that may be mistaken for facial spasm is a hysterical affection in which the quivering of the muscles does not, however, in the least resemble what is seen in the genuine condition. A tonic spasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum sometimes occurs in hysteria. The age of the patient, the sex, and the detection of hysterical stigmata of one kind or another, usually serve- to distinguish these cases. Chorea, in which there is much facial spasm with little evident affection of the limbs, may lead to eiTor, but the character of the spasm and the detection of some spasm which is always present in the limbs ought to prevent mistakes. As regards the distinctions between the idiopathic variety of facial spasm and that the outcome of organic disease there are several important points to be considered. A historj^ of an antecedent attack of facial paralysis, either alone or as part of a hemiplegia, must of course be inquired for. So too the detection of any weakness of the facial movements, together with permanent contrac- ture and overaction, as well as the paroxysmal attacks of spasm, point to an organic origin of the latter, and the detection of evidences of hemiplegia are of like significance. Much more difficult cases to decide about are those in whicli the facial spasm is evoked by organic disease in, the neighbourhood of the facial centre in the- cortex, the nucleus in the pons, or the nerve- after its emergence from the pons. One of the most valuable aids to diagnosis in this class of case is the occurrence of weakness of the facial moveiBents which comes on concomitantly with the spasm, or which is of later development and progressive. Search should be made for evidence of implication of any of the other cranial nerves, as the detection of such Avould lend support to the view that an organic affec- tion was primarily responsible for the occurrence- of the facial spasm. When muscles like the zygomatici are alone affected it is probable that the disease is in the cortex, but when the whole of the muscles supplied by the facial nerve are involved it may be impossible to decide whether the lesion is in the cerebral cortex, the pons, or in connection with the trunk of the facial nerve- outside the pons. Prognosis.—Excepting where the facial spasm is a symptom of some organic disease, there is nothing in the nature of the affection itself to cause any anxiety as regards the duration of life ; but it proves a constant source of worry and annoj'ance to the unfortunate victim. The affection is most intractable, as a rule, and usually persists for years or permanently in defiance of all treatment, or intermissions in the spasms may occur spontaneously or as the result of therapeutic measures, but there is usually a return of the spasm after a variable period, and it may ultimately be permanent. The more certain we can be that the spasm has been initiated V)y some source of reflex irritation which can be removed, and the earlier treat- ment is commenced, the more favourable does prognosis become, while the more uncertain the