FORMIC ACID 339 Formic Acid.—Synonym, Am.inic Acid, H.,C03. A colourlens liquid, misciblc witli water in all proportions. Dose—2-10 m. The follow- ing salts are in common use. 1. Sodii Formas, a white crystalline soluble powder. Dose—^--3 grs. Preparation—Elixir Sodii Formatis. Dose —3ii- 2. Potassii Formas. Properties similar to those of the sodium salt. Dose—-J-3 grs. 3. Lithii Formas, a soluble crystalline powder. Dose—^-2 grs. 4. Stryclminoi Fo7-mas, a white crystalline powder, soluble 1 in 2 of water and I in 6 of alcohol. It combines the actions of strychnine and formic acid. Dose—Jg- gr. In strong solution formic acid has a caustic action. It has been injected locally in the treat- ment of chronic rheumatism, sciatica, etc., 8 m. of a 3 per cent solution being the quantity rcconnnended. It may by preceded by the injection of cocaine to lessen the painful effect. Subcutaneous injections of weaker solutions (1 in 100,000 to 1 in 1000) have been employed for lupus and malignant disease. By the mouth or hypodermically in dilute solution both the acid itself and its salts have a very powerful stimulant effect on striped and non-striped muscle. The contractions are strengthened, the output of work is greatly increased, and the onset of fatigue is retarded. The action is similar to that of caffeine, but more powerful. They improve general nutrition and stimulate the appetite. They have a distinct diuretic action, and in sclei'osis of the kidneys the amount of albumen excreted is said to be diminished. The heart is strongly stimulated by a direct action on the cardiac muscle, and if the acid is not given in too concentrated solution there is practically no general arterial constric- tion. Formic acid and its salts have been pre- scribed in all forms of want of tone and of muscular debility, in circulatory enfeeblement, in phthisis, in constipation, in over-distension of the bladder, in threatened cardiac failure, and in choi-ea. The formate of strychnine has been very largely used as a stimulant and general tonic, the additional action of the strychnine being an advantage in some cases. Form iCcltion.—A peculiar sensation, as of ants creeping over the skin, met with in nervous disorders, etc. Formicin. — Formaldehyde acetamide ; an antiseptic. Formula..—A prescription ; also a group of symbols and figures representing the consti- tution of a chemical compound, or the order and arrangement of a number of structures (e.y. dental formula). Fornix (I'l. Fornices).—The roof or vault, e.g. of the brain or of the vagina; the latter is generally regarded as divided into four spaces by the protruding vaginal portion of the cervix, and these are named anterioi", posterior. and two lateral (right and left), according to position. Fossa..—A depression, excavation, or wide- mouthed pit, a term frequently used in Anatomy and Embryology. Fourchette. — Any structure which is arranged in a fork-like manner, but commonly used of the semilunar notch of the sternum and of the posterior commissure of the vulva (union of posterior ends of labia minora). See Gene- ration, Female Organs of (Labia Minora); Syphilis {Acquired^ Situatioyi of Primary Sore). Fourfooted Progression. — A method of treating scoliosis introduced by Klapp; the patient walks on the hands and knees, mov- ing the hand and knee of the same side forward at the same time; the method causes very con- siderable movement of the spine. Fourth Disease. (Dukes' Disease, Dukes'-Filatow's Disease.) See also Rubella; Scarlet Fever {Diagnosis). In 1900 Dr. Clement Dukes brought forward evidence tending to prove that in addition to the three eruptive fevers ordinarily recognised — scarlatina, measles, and rotheln — a fourth existed. This he called " Fourth Disease," the name by which it is commonly known in this country, while in Germany it is called after its discoverer—Dukesche' Krankheit. As it must be admitted that Dr. Dukes has not established his contention that a " fourth disease " exists to the satisfaction of his critics, it would be best first to follow his description of the malady, and then to enumerate some of the objections which have been taken. Dukes denies that there arc two varieties of rotheln, and asserts instead that two definite and distinct diseases—an attack of one of which does not protect from an attack of the other— have been confused under the same name. The scarlatiniform type of rotheln, for which the name "fourth disease" is now proposed, has the following characteristics :— It occurs chiefly in spring and summer. The incubation period is from 9 to 21 days. Pre- monitory symptoms are often absent; in severe attacks there may be headache, anorexia, chilli- ness, backache, etc. The temperature varies from 98-4° to 103" or 104°, but is not necessarily proportionate to the intensity of the rash. The pulse is accelerated in direct ratio to the pyrexia, but seldom rises over 100. "The eruption is usually the first symptom noticed, and covers the whole body in a very few hours. The hue is a bright rosy red, and is raised somewhat from the surface of the skin, the sensation of heat of the skin to the touch, even when the rash is very full, is much slighter than in scarlet fever." The fauces are swollen and harve a velvety appearance, but sore thi'oat is not com-