GLAUCOMA 464 in eyes suffering from primary glaucoma than in healthy eyes. Hypermetrof)ia probably predisposes some- what to glaucoma in advanced life, for the hypermetropic eye has as a rale a more pro- minent ciliary body and perhaps a shallower anterior chamber than the emmetropic or myopic eye, and these conditions tend to facilitate compression of the filtration angle. But the influence of hypermetropia in this re- spect has hardly yet been proved by statistics ; it must be remembered that the acquired hyper- metropia produced by changes in the lens in advanced life is a very common condition at the age when glaucoma most commonly begins, and it must not be assumed that small eyes are necessarily hypermetropic, for this is not the case. It is the small eye as such rather than the hypermetropic eye that is peculiarly liable to primary glaucoma. Apart from these physiological variations it is probable that degenerative clianges in the blood-vessels and other tissues of the eye account in part for the predisposition to primary glaucoma which belongs to advanced life. Causes of Secondary Glaucoma.—Sarcoma of the choroid usually leads to glaucoma unless the eye be excised before the outbreak. The glaucoma is of acute type and closely resembles the primary form of the disease. The growth of the tumour is accompanied by serous eft'usiou from the choroid; the retina is detached and driven inwards; at first the vitreous makes room for the intrusion by parting with some of its fluid through the hyaloid into the aqueous Fig. 4.—From an eye blinded by secondary slaucoma i'oUowing neglected iritis. Exclusion of the pupil; accumulation of fluid in the posterior chamber; displacement of the iris ; closure of the filtration angle. chamber and so out of the eye; later, when the vitreous fluid is nearly all gone, further com- pensation is impossible; the lens, ciliary pro- cesses, and iris are driven forward, and the filtration angle is compressed just as in primary glaucoma. Glioma of the retina commonly leads in like manner to high tension, but the attack is of less violent character. Tumours of the iris may induce glaucoma by direct blocking of the filtration angle. Intraocular haemorrhage is sometimes the starting-point of a condition closely resembling primary glaucoma. It is important to dis- tinguish these cases when possible, for hasmor- rhagic glaucoma is less amenable to treatment. Annular posterior synechia leads to secondary glaucoma by pi-eventing the passage of the aque- ous fluid forwards through the pupil. The iris is bulged forward by the accumulation of fluid behind it, the periphery of the chamber is abolished, and the eye is quickly lost by high tension unless an aperture be made in the iris by operation (see Fig. 4). Perforating wounds and ulcers of the cornea lead to secondary glaucoma in certain cases through partial or total abolition of the anterior chamber, the iris being applied to the cornea. So long as the wound leaks, the eye remains soft; when leakage ceases, it becomes hard. The danger of this complication is increased when the injurj^ is complicated by wounding of the lens. Dislocation of the lens into the anterior chamber is sometimes followed by intense glaucoma. In such cases we can see that the iris is closely applied to the posterior surface of the lens and to the periphery of the cornea by the accumulation of fluid behind it. Lateral dislocation of the lens, as caused by a blow on the eye, is apt to lead to closure of the filtration angle by the pressure of the lens on the one side of the circle, and by the pressure of the dis- placed vitreous at the other. Operations for the removal of cataract, whether by extraction or needling, are occasionally fol- lowed by secondary glaucoma. In all such cases careful examination shows com- pression of the filtration angle either by the swollen lens, or by the traction of membranes stretched across the pupil, in- carcerated capsule, entangled iris or vitreous, or in some such way. Cyclitis in certain instances leads to secondary glaucoma, the ciliary body pouring out a morbid albuminous fluid which, unlike the normal aqueous, is unable to permeate the filtra- tion angle and therefore tends to accumulate in the anterior chamber, which is deepened thereby. In this and in some other allied forms of the disease the high tension is due not to narrowing of the outlet, but to abnormal con- stitution of the fluid. The rare form of glaucoma sometimes present at birth has been found to depend on congenital absence of the filtration angle, the condition being probably a fault of development rather than a product of disease. The glaucoma occa- sionally met with in eyes which present a partial or total absence of the iris has been found to