96 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN into two auricles by means of a ridge growing from its dorsal and cephalic walls begins at this date; the separation, however, is incomplete, the opening between the auricles constituting the foramen ovale, or rather the ostium primum. The right auricle is larger than the left, and into it (the foi'mer) opens the sinus venosus or sinus reuniens, into which in turn open the vitelline and umbilical (allantoic) veins and the ducts of Cuvier. The opening of the sinus reuniens is guarded by a valve. The common atrio-ventricular canal is now divided by an incomplete septum into two auriculo-ventricular openings, by means of which the right and left auricular cavities communicate with the right and left ventricular cavities respectively, for by this time the common ventricular chamber is partly divided into two cavities. The two ventricular cavities, however, still freely com- municate with each other, for the ridge or septum on the inside which corresponds to the sulcus inter-ventricularis on the outside does not yet completely divide the ventricular space. The truncus or bulbus arteriosus is by the end of the fourth week nearly completely divided into two tubes. Already the symmetrical arrangement of the five aortic arches has broken down and been replaced by a new order. The third, fourth, and fifth arches of both sides pei'sist, and these unite to form the two aortfe, which in their turn unite, between the sixth and seventh cervical nerves (in Mall's 26 day embryo), to form the single aorta. The aorta is much larger in the dorsal and lumbar regions than in the cervical, and in the lumbar region it divides abruptly into the two umbilical (allantoic) arteries. The pulmonary artery on each side can be seen arising from the fifth aortic arch as a comparatively small branch. The first and second aortic arches have by the end of this week (the fourth) apparently disappeared. The internal carotid artery with some branches can be recognised arising from the third arch. On each side of the dorsal aorta are (in Mall's 26 day embryo) twenty-one segmental arteries, the first being in front of the first cervical nerve, and the last behind the twelfth dorsal. The second segmental artery communicates with the vertebral, a large branch which extends forward to the region of the otic vesicle and gives off two twigs, the future anterior and posterior cerebellar arteries. The subclavians grow out from the dorsal aortse, or from the segmentals opposite the fourth arches. Between the lateral and ventral sides of the aorta there are fourteen pairs of segmental branches which supply the Wolffian bodies. From the ventral side of the aorta the cceliac axis and the omphalo-mesenteric artery arise. Through the growth tailwards of the parts in the neck, including the heart and diaphragm, the origins of all these vessels are constantly moving backwards, as it were, in relation to the segments of the body. The same general arrangement of the veins persists, with the exception that the left or sometimes the right omphalo - mesenteric or vitelline vein has now disappeared ; the remain- ing vein (as portal vein) unites with the um- bilical vein in the region of the liver, but before this happens it receives an inferior mesenteric branch. The liver is developed around the umbilical and omphalo-mesenteric veins. The cardinal vein (which receives the blood from the Wolffian body) joins with the jugular of the same side to form the ductus Cuvieri which opens into the sinus reuniens. Veins from the upper limb- bud (subclavian) also open into the duct of Cuvier or into the jugular vein. The jugular and cardinal veins also receive segmental branches. The right umbilical vein has usually disappeared by this time. With regard to the supporting tissues of the embryo in the fourth week certain facts are well established. The notochord is still recognisable, and stretches from the caudal extremity to a point below the hind-brain. On each side of it are the mesoblastic segments (consisting of myotomes, sclerotomes, and cutis plates or der- matomes), and in its anterior part the vertebral arteries are also situated laterally. It is usually stated that cartilage does not begin to form in the sclerotomes till the second month, but Mall describes it already in his 26 day embryo. These sclerotomes grow round the notochord, and are transformed at a later date into the spinal column, the basi-occiput, and part of the basi-sphenoid. From the myotomes are formed the muscles of the body and limbs. Recapitulation Like the weeks that precede it, the fourth is full of organogenetic activities. Construction is rapidly going on; it is true we have not to chronicle developments so astonishing as those of the third week, that hebdomad.a mirabilis to which reference has lately been made, yet those ■we have to deal with are wonderful enough, and in all respects more than difficult enough to explain or attempt to explain. We see the embryo beginning to assert itself even in the matter of bulk, while the umbilical vesicle has already reached its maximum size, and has more than reached its maximum importance. The curious dorsal flexure of the embryo has suddenly disappeared, and our visual image of the new organism now is a C instead of an inverted S; this C shape the embryo never quite loses again, and in the fcetus we recognise it in the familiar attitude of flexion ; in a sense, there is even a reminiscent and instinctive assumption of it by the adult when in fear of bodily injury or hurt. In this fourth week, also, there are seen for the first time the indications of limbs. They are nothing more than buds, it is true; but their advent is very striking, for we now realise