ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 50 The diagnosis of a simple sprain is arrived at by a process of exclusion. The rapid swelling in and around the joint, due primarily to haemor- rhage and afterwards to effusion, makes it diffi- cult at once to express a decided opinion. The relationship of the bony prominences to one another, and with the sound joint, the presence or absence of limitation of movement, of ex- tension and flexion, of pronation and supination, should be ascertained. It is best, if in doubt, and especially in child- ren, to give a guarded opinion, as separation of the epiphysis may readily be mistaken for a simple sprain, and the mistake only found out when growth is arrested. Treatment in the early stage resolves itself into giving the joint complete rest, and arrest- ing the internal haemorrhage. For both a splint is essential, and for the latter pressure if it can be tolerated. The joint should be surrounded with cotton-wool and an elastic webbing bandage applied. Cold in the form of ice-bags and Leiter's tubes has been much vaunted, but does not seem to be so comforting or efficaceous as supposed. If the effusion has apparently reached the limit, and be accompanied with considerable tension and pain, fomentations, medicated or otherwise, give great relief, as does also aspira- tion if it can be judiciously carried out. When the effiision is beginning to subside, and organ- isation with absorption commencing, it is then that much care should be exercised to prevent adhesion and fibrous ankylosis resulting. Passive motion with massage and douching should at this stage be daily practised, being- guided by the presence of local reaction to its continuance. Should firm adhesion have already occurred, the joint can be moved under an anaesthetic. Rupture of muscular fibres, as in the case of " Tennis Arm," where the pronator teres is partially torn, and even of the biceps tendon from forcible flexion, have been noted, both being indicated by the usual signs of such in- juries. Wounds Wounds in the neighbourhood of the elbow- joint may, as in the case of fractures, be divided into :— (a) Those which do not communicate with the joint; and (6) Those which directly or indirectly com- municate with the joint cavity. Wounds which do not communicate with the joint resemble in their classification and treat- ment wounds in general. It is to the injury done to important struc- tures, and the possibility of direct septic in- fection, that attention should be paid. One or other of the large nerves may be divided, or the brachial vessel damaged. The chance of sepsis, of course, is more likely to arise if the wound be a punctured one. Where the nerve has been divided, and when the circumstances are favourable, an attempt should at once be made to suture the divided ends. Failure to recognise or to suture at the time a divided nerve would render necessary a subsequent operation. In a cleanly cut wound whei-e the tissues have not been lacerated or contused, and where, as far as can be ascertained, no infective material has been introduced, the divided structures should all be brought together. Attention should also be paid and care taken to prevent or limit contraction of the scar, especially in the case of burns or scalds. Cica- tricial tissue over the olecranon is very liable to break down, and a healthy flap or graft should be substituted. It is, however, when the wound communicates with the joint that special precautions have to be taken, and a more guarded prognosis given. The fact that a given wound does communicate with the joint is not always easy to demonstrate. The wound of entrance may be a punctured one and at some distance from the joint, the im- mediate swelling of which would certainly be suggestive of its involvement, as would also the escape of synovial fluid, though it is to be re- membered that this may be bursal. The particular danger lies in septic infection of the joint, resulting in the possible necessity of amputation, though this is very seldom re- quired in the case of the elbow, or at best of ankylosis or of resection. If the wound be a simple one and heal kindly, the function of the joint is not disturbed. As- piration should at once be made if there be evidence of local heat or tenderness; the pi'esence of sero-pus would point to a free opening of the joint and thorough irrigation. The joint is best opened at the outer side of the olecranon, though more than one opening may be necessary. Where the damage done, however, is extensive, involving comminution and splintering of the bones, the question of primary resection or of removal of the damaged fragments should be considered. Septic wounds involving the olecranon bursa are always serious, and call for free incision into and cleaning of that cavity lest a secondary sup- purative periostitis leads to involvement of the elbow-joint. Gunshot Wounds.—Gunshot wounds involving the elbow-joint are comparatively rare in civil practice. Their prognosis and treatment depend upon the extent of bone implicated and the amount of damage done to the suiTounding soft parts. As in other wounds of this joint, unless the parts are irretrievably damaged, conservative measures should be tried. Should the bones have escaped injury, a some-