244 F.ECES and in cases where the diet contains an excessive amount of milk or cheese. {b) Mucin may be said to form the basis of normal fseces, and in some pathological con- ditions is very abmidant. (c) Peptones, although probably absent from normal fseces, may appear in many pathological conditions, e.g. in the acholic stools of jaundice. {d) Carbohydrates are almost completely absorbed, except when the diet contains con- siderable quantities of green vegetables or pulses. The stools of young infants who are being fed on a starchy food may contain considerable quantities of starch. (e) Urea. (/) Fat is almost completely absorbed from an ordinary mixed diet. It may be abundant when in excess in the diet, or when the pan- creatic juice or the bile is absent. The stools may contain fat or oil, salts of the fatty acids, volatile fatty acids (acetic, butyric). {g) Aromatic substances derived from the de- composition of proteids (phenol, indol, skatol, etc.). (h) Bile acids. (i) Pigments. — Stercobilin (hydrobilirubin). Blood pigments and derivatives: hsematin, htematoidin (rare), ferrous sulphide. Bile pigment (not in normal fteces except in children). {j) Cholesterin. (k) Excretin, a crystalline body described by Marcet. (l) Mineral Salts derived from the food, especially salts of the alkaline earths. Methods of Chemical Examination.—The method of carrying out a chemical examina- tion of the faeces can only be indicated very briefly :— 1. The faeces are to be weighed, then mixed thoroughly with water. 2. Distil off one-third of the volume of the fluid obtained. The distillate is then to be examined for phenol, indol, skatol, and free fatty acids. 3. The residue left in the flask is evaporated, acidified with sulphuric acid, extracted with alcohol, and then with ether, and filtered. The extract contains fatty acids, fats, cholesterin, bile acids, sometimes glucosides, and colouring matter. 4. The residue left after extraction contains keratin, elastin, mucin, nuclein, cellulose, starch, and gummy substances. Should hsematin be present it will be extracted by the acid, alcohol, and ether, and can be examined spectroscopically. {See Hoppe-Seyler's Hand- buch.) F^CES, Incontinence of.—This term may be applied to any condition in which the contents of the rectum are discharged involuntarily, but a careful distinction must be drawn between those cases where the lumbar centre which con- trols the sphincter ani is intact, the lesion being at a higher level, and those where it has been de- stroyed [see vol. ii. p. 383). The distinction can be readily made by passing the finger into the rectum. If the lumbar centre is intact the sphincter will be felt contracting on the finger. In these cases involuntary discharge of fseces only takes place when the contents of the rectum accumulate sufficiently to overcome the sphincter. When the lumbar centre is paralysed the sphincter offers no resistance to evacuation of the rectum, but in this case also the discharge will take place only at intervals whose frequency will depend on the activity of peristalsis. Incontinence of fseces may also occur in coma, in the typhoid state, and in conditions of extreme exhaustion. It may resvilt from certain opera- tions, temporarily after stretching the sphincter, permanently after removal of the rectum and the sphincter for malignant disease. Permanent incontinence has accidentally resulted from excision of piles. In highly nervous children a form of incontinence, associated with great feebleness of the sphincter, is met with. These cases are very rare. Treatment.—In most cases the only treat- ment possible is careful attention to cleanliness. Special care should be taken to guard the patient from attacks of diarrhoea. If the patient is able to go about some sort of retentive apparatus must be worn. In the form mentioned as occurring in nervous children, ergot given by the mouth and in suppository has been found successful by Fowler (New York). If this should fail Holt recommends the local injection of strychnine. [Schmidt's Method of Examining the Fceces.— Microscopic examination of the faeces of a patient who has purposely been placed on a specially selected diet may yield some information as to the gastro-intestinal function. This method has been elaborated by Schmidt, whose name it bears. The diet chosen consists of cocoa, milk, eggs, rusks, gruel, butter, underdone minced meat, and mashed potato. A dose of charcoal is given at the commencement of the course to show, by its colour, when the diet is beginning to affect the stools. The faeces are then diluted and examined microscopically for connective tissue, muscle fibre, carbohydrate, and fats. On the above diet the only residue normally found is a few partially digestive muscle fibres, a little potato debris, and some fat. Connective tissue implies inadequate gastric digestion (hypochlorhydria), excess of meat fibres dis- turbance of the function of the upper part of the gastro-intestinal tract, and large masses of carbohydrates point to defective digestion or assimilation in the small intestine.] Fa.inting'. See Syncope. Faith Cure. See Eddyism.