358 FRACTURES metacarpal bones are said to form only about one per cent of all the fractures occurring in the human body, the third and fourth metacarpals being broken more often than the first. The Pig. 13.—The metacarpal bone of the thumb to show the line of injury in Bennett's fracture of " the stave of the thumb." fractures are caused either by direct violence, as in fighting, the falling of a weight, or the kick of a horse, much more rarely by indirect violence, as by hyper-extension or over-flexion of the bones. Although complete fractures are the most frequent, it is by no means uncommon to see fissured fractures, and fractures where only a part of the bone has been torn off. The complete fractures are most common at the point where the bone is thinnest,' that is to say, just above the middle. Prof. E. H. Bennett has recently drawn attention to a form of incomplete fracture which is not unusual in the metacarpal bone of the thumb, where after a fall upon the palm of the hand a fracture is caused which passes obliquely through the base of the bone (Fig. 13), detaching the greater part of the articular facet with that piece of bone support- ing it which projects into the palm of the hand. The amount of displacement in this form of fracture is slight, but it consists in a subluxation of the thumb backwards. The displacement in the complete fractures is characteristic, unless it is masked by the swelling, for the proximal fragment is fixed whilst the distal end of the bone is tilted by the flexors of the fingers so that it projects upon the dorsum of the hand. Much more rarely the displacement of the distal fragment is into the palm of the hand, or even laterally. When a metacarpal bone is broken local pain, which is increased when pressure is made upon the head of the metacarpal, are sufficient to establish the diagnosis in cases of complete fracture. It is more difficult to recognise the injury when only a small piece of bone is broken oft', but a radiograph will deter- mine the nature of the injury. The treatment consists in securing the hand for a fortnight to a well-padded Carr's splint, which can be made easily by screwing six inches of a broom handle obliquely on to the end of a straight wooden splint, so that the radial side is longer than the ulnar, the injured arm being afterwards suspended in a large arm-sling. A simpler plan is to bandage the closed fist over a pad of wool of sufficient size to completely fill the fist, but I do not think that this method is either so comfortable or gives such good results. In oblique fractures, where the surgeon considers it necessary to employ extension, a rectangular splint should be applied to the arm, so that it reaches well beyond the tips of the fingers; sticking plaster may then be applied to the injured finger, as in Fig. 14; the plaster is attached to a piece of elastic tubing, which is then carried through a hole in the splint and fixed to the back of the splint (Fig. 15). There is often a little shortening after an oblique fracture of a metacarpal in spite of all treatment, but it is not of much importance, as it does not interfere with the movements of the hand. Repair is often very slow, though non- union is a rare result, and the formation of exuberant callus sometimes hinders the free movement of the fingers if it displaces the long flexor tendons. The prognosis of a simple fracture of the metacarpals is good, therefore, as regards union, but in many cases in Bennett's fracture of the metacarpal bone of the thumb there is often a lame and useless hand for many months after the injury. The Phalanges.—The proximal and ungual phalanges of the fingers are more often broken than the intermediate ones, and as the injury is Figs. 14, 15.—Method of applying a splint in a case of oblique fracture of a metacarpal bone. (Chiene am\ Dobie.) close to the head, the distal end is carried forwards into the palm of the hand, and the accident may be mistaken for a metacarpo- phalangeal dislocation. The displacement and the increased mobility at the seat of fracture, combined with the sharp always the result of direct violence, it is often compound. The line of fracture in the distal phalanges may be vertical. In simple fractures, and in every case where the thumb is injured, attempts should be made to ensure repair, but in compound comminuted fractures of the ungual