515 GOUT gently enforced. The latter measure especially is only too frequently not given adequate effect to in spa treatment. Carbohydrates and sweets must be reduced, or even abolished, and great care taken to avoid admixture of fruits and carbohydrates with the chief proteid foods. A large quantity of water should be drunk in the course of the cure, beginning, however, with small amomits (i to f pint thrice daily), and every third or fourth day gradually increasing up to two or even more pints thrice daily. The amount should be carefully regulated, and is largely dependent on the cardio-vascular tone of the individual. Special care should be taken with stout subjects, who are also less liable to take the amount of exercise requisite daily. The baths should only be taken every alternate day, or in some cases less frequently, but in the intervals various accessory local measures are of the greatest service. These comprise the douche {vide vol. i. p. 347), active and passive move- ments of various kinds, which are most readily obtained by a course of exercises in a well- equipped Swedish mechanical institute, and various forms of local hot-air treatment. A very good general rule to adopt with hydropathic and allied remedies intended to influence local meta- bolism is to use them "little and often." Hydi'o-therapeutic measures are not as a rule applicable in cases of gouty cachexia, nor in elderly persons especially with obese tendencies, and furthei", their use requires special considera- tion in cases where any organic, cardiac, renal, or pulmonary lesion exists. The degree of general limpness and enervation so frequently experienced in the earlier part of the course reflects the profound alterations that are taking- place in genei'al metabolism, and these may be still further indicated by the occurrence of a marked oxaluria or phosphaturia. After a course of spa treatment it is often desirable to endeavour to thoroughly establish the cure by sending the patient to some alpine or other health resort for a time, where the climate is thoroughly invigorating and calculated to pro- mote general tone and vigour to the system. Treatment of Acute Gout Acute gout falls to be treated on the general principles applicable to other inflammatory states. The indications are to relieve the con- stitution, and to moderate the local inflammation, both of which are best fulfilled by constitutional rather than local treatment. Rest in bed, free purgation, and a low diet, are the essential constitutional remedies, the two latter being employed in proportion to the acuteness of the symptoms and the constitutional vitality of the individual. In weakly and in old subjects, and in cases where the gouty cachexia is pronounced, the treatment must be less depressant, and a more generous diet with some alcoholic stimulant may be indicated. On the first suggestion of the paroxysm in an otherwise healthy subject, a full dose of calomel (4 to 8 grs.) and colocynth (2 to 4 grs.) should be taken and followed by a saline cathartic (Carlsbad salts). In a few cases this treatment suffices to arrest a paroxysm, but if the attack is fully developed its remedial influence is not so noteworthy. Recourse should then be had to active diuretic treatment and the administration of colchicum. Large doses of lithia or potash water should be taken at least three times a day, and in addition fifteen to thirty minims of the vinum or tincture colchici should be given in a little water, or in the following mixture thrice daily: — Vin. colchici 5ss., pot. citrat. gss., lithii salicylas ojv aqua .5^'j- i T)'^^- water thrice daily. Great care must always be exercised in the use of colchicum, as not a few subjects react strongly to its influence, severe general depression or diarrhoea resulting from even moderate doses. How the drug acts is unknown. There are no conclusive indications that it influences the excretion of uric acid. The very slight increase noted by His in the most recent observations on the subject are not {Deutsch. Archiv fur Miniscke Medicin, Oct. 1899) distinctive, and we may confidently assert that the beneficial effects of the drug are not dependent on any direct influence on uric acid. Sir Dyce Duckworth has suggested that the result may be explained by the cholagogue action of the remedy. Salicylate of soda is another remedy that has been found useful in a few instances of acute gout when colchicum was unavailing. In the few cases that I have tried it in acute gout I have never been satisfied that it exerted any therapeutic influence. Ten to fifteen grs. of Dover's powder, or a combination of bromide of lithia (30 grs.) and chloral hydat. (30 grs.) may be indicated for their sedative and hypnotic action. This treatment must be carefully revised from day to day in the light of the patient's general state, and notably the condition of the pulse, which may be taken as a reliable guide as to whether the depletent remedies are being administered in excessive amount. The diet should be limited to milk only for the first few days, or milk alternately with weak beef tea. Solid food of any kind is better withheld in robust subjects—nothing but benefit will accrue from a mild starvation diet. In a few days bland farinaceous food may be added, provided the state of the tongue is satisfactory, and all flatulence and eructations gone. Gradually, white fish, boiled chicken, eggs, and easily digested bread stuffs, are added to the diet. With regard to local treatment, elevation of the limb, a covering of wool surrounded by oil silk, a bandage, and a cradle to protect the limb from the weight of bed-clothes, are usually all that is required. Of other measures the most appropriate are flannel fomentations wrung out of hot water and sprinkled freely with laudanum,