32 ECZEMA ing a surface of sufficient inertness, cohesion, and stability to resist the natural perturbations of the outside world. In all this it must be borne in mind that it is not a question of killing microbes by germicidal remedies. For, as Sabouraud has shown, the surface tissue killed by the irritant treatment contains the micro- organisms in a living and active state. Our remedies have simply hastened a natural process of expurgation of injured epithelium. II. Choice of Remedies.—From what has been said it will be understood that the choosing of a remedy is not a matter of chance, but one which is regulated by certain definite principles. In selecting a remedy we must know clearly and precisely what it is we have to do. In a word, what is the stage in the natural process of cure which we desire to anticipate ? It will be found convenient to arrange our remedies in the following classes : — 1. Passive Agents.include neutral jDOwders, vegetable and mineral, such as oxide of zinc, calamine (artificial and native), stearate of zinc, carbonate of magnesium, carbonate and oxychloride of bismuth, lycopodium, wheat starch, talc, kaolin (cimolite), kieselguhr, chalk. It may be noted hei'e that pure native calamine is very difficult to procure, and in case of doubt it is better to employ the artificially prepared carbonate of zinc coloured to the required tint by the addition of a little carmine. It does not turn black in the presence of sulphur (Brooke). It is decomposed by salicylic acid, a disadvantage not shared by the pure native calamine. 2. Desiccators and Astringents.—The above- named powders may also be considered as passive desiccators. Astringents may be regarded as active desiccators inasmuch as they contract the tissues (and blood-vessels), and so actually diminish the volume of fluid in the skin. The best astringents in regard to eczema are silver nitrate, alum, and subacetate of lead. They may be combined with advantage. Thus silver and lead go well together; also alum and sub- acetate of lead, but in this case decomposition occurs with formation of acetate of aluminium. They must be dissolved in distilled water. The quantity need not exceed 2 or 3 grains to the ounce. A few drops of glycerine and mucilage of acacia may be added when it is desired to protect the surface from friction. 3. Irritants. — These may be conveniently subdivided, according to their degree of irrita- tion, into irritants of the first, second, third, and fourth degrees. It must be remembered, of course, that the degree of irritation depends not only on the intrinsic properties of the active agent, but upon its strength. We may roughly classify them as follows :— (a) Irritants of the first degree.—Boric acid, borax, ichthyol, etc. (h) Irritants of the second degree.—Sulphur, wood, and coal tar, salicylic acid, resorcin, subchloride of mercury, etc., in quantities not exceeding 2 per cent of the basis ointment. (c) Irritants of the third degree.—Sulphur, wood, and coal tar, salicylic acid, resorcin, cai'- bolic acid, styrax and Peruvian balsam, iodine, white precipitate, etc., in quantities ranging from 2 to 10 per cent. (d) Irritants of the fourth degree. — Chrys- arobin, pyrogallol, creasote, corrosive sublimate, red iodide of mercury, and the agents of class (o) in quantities exceeding 10 per cent. III. Modes of Application.—Close attention must be paid to technical details in order to secure success in the management of eczema. The action of a drug applied to the skin varies not only according to its intrinsic quality, but according to the way in which we apply it. 1. The Continuous Method.—Water and lotions may be applied continuously by means of compresses, with or without the protective covering of oiled silk or gutta-percha. The method is excellent in its results, but makes a greater demand on the time and attention of the patient than some other forms to be men- tioned. It is almost indispensable in the treat- ment of erythematous eczema of the ears. Ointments applied on flannel and butter-cloth are naturally more efficacious than when applied intermittentlj'. Water itself is a valuable remedial agent in the hands of those who know how to handle it. The hot hath (98°-100° F.) softens the surface of the skin, and also facili- tates the escape of the pent-up plasma. At the same time it relaxes the dermal capillaries over the entire surface of the body, and so tends to equalise the cutaneous circulation. Its soothing effect is very great, and it is often chiefly for this reason that we emply the hot bath. It is specially indicated where the inflammation is of a nervous character, as in oedematous eczema of the face, which is not infrequently associated with mental and general nervous excitement. The soothing influence exerted by the hot water on the nerves of the skin is communicated to the cerebral and mental cortex, and to the lower nerve-centres, with much benefit to the inflamed area. The sedative effect of the hot bath is increased by the addition of hra,n or oatmeal. About two or three pounds should be sewed up in muslin and boiled for ten minutes in a sauce- panful of water; the bag and the water in which it has been boiled should then be added to the bath. The detergent action of water is increased by the addition of alkalies or alkaline salts, such as soda or bicarbonate of potash. Enough of the salt should be added as suffices to impart a slight alkaline taste to the water (30 gallons). In some instances ink baths are given on account of the astringent action spf the iron salt, but their practical value doels not appear to be very great. The addition of sulphur is often of value. Instead of the crude