EMMENAGOGUES 114 the menstrual functions is called an emmena- gogue. The causes of disturbance of the menstrual functions are very varied, and will be found fully treated of \mder the heading " Menstrua- tion." It is sufficient to mention here that when the general health is below par from nervous debility, antemia, tuberculosis, an indirect em- menagogue is required, that is, one which will act by improving the general tone of the nervous system, or by increasing the quantity and quality of the blood. Such may also act by stimulating the adjacent organs, and thus reflexly acting on the uterus. The. principal are purgatives, especially aloes in any form, and tonics—iron, arsenic, strychnine, potassium permanganate, cod-liver oil. Hot water and mustard, foot and hip baths, are also beneficial when menstruation is delayed. Direct emmenagogues are those which exert a local action on the uterus. These are ergot, quinine, savine, guaiacum, hydrastis, rue, asa- fcetida, myrrh, cantharides, and borax. These, when given in moderate doses, gently stimulate the uterus, thus producing menstruation. If menstruation is profuse they check the exces- sive flow by toning up the uiterus. When given in large doses they may produce abortion, and are then termed echolics. Their use in large doses is attended with very considerable risks. Em metro pi a.—The normal condition of the eye in respect to refraction ; the principal focus is exactly the distance behind the crystal- line lens at which the layer of rods and cones in the retina is situated, so that rays of light are focussed upon these rods and cones without any effort at accommodation. See Accommoda- tion ; Asthenopia ; Physiology, Senses (Vision, Formation of Pictures vpon the Retina); Refrac- tion {Emmetropia) ; Retinoscopy {Emnietropia). Emodin.—A constituent of rhubarb root, having the formula C^^R^qD^^ (or OjgHjgOj); it is closely related to chrysophanic acid. Emol.—A soapy mineral, with emollient properties, used in skin diseases. Emollients.—Softening, relaxing, pro- tecting, or lenitive substances, such as poultices, oils, fats, etc.; they have a softening, a moisten- ing, or a warming effect, or else they simply form a coating on the skin which preserves it from injury, friction, or cracking. See Pharma- cology. Emotion. See Chorea {Etiology, Fright, Emotion); Hysteria {Convulsions, Second Period, Emotional Attitudes); Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Index of Mental Functions, Feeling, Emotions, Affections). Empa,themcl. — Ungovernable or un- controllable passion, leading to perversion or subversion of reason and judgment. Emphysema. See Bronchi, Bron- chitis, Acute {Morbid A^iatomy, Collapse of Lung and Compensatory Empihysema); Bron- chitis, Chronic, in Children {Progiiosis, Em- physema) ; Chest, Clinical Investigation {Alterations in Size and Shape, Emphysema); Chest, Injuries op (Viscera, Wounds); Chest- Wall, Affections {Emphysema); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Emphysema); Emphysema, Sur- gical ; Lungs, Tuberculosis {Comp)lications, Integ^mientary, Cutaneous Emphysema);. Lungs, Emphysema of ; Malingering {Cutaneous Em- physema) ; Mediastinum {Mediastinal Emphy- sema) ; Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw {Fracture of Superior Maxilla, Complica- tions) ; Neck, Region of {Injm-ies, Surgical Emphysema) ; Oxygen {Use in Pulmonary Em2}hysema); Pleura, Affections of, Surgical {Injuries, Emphysema) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op {Emp>hysema of Scrotum). Emphysema, Surgical.—Emphy sema is the term used to denote the presence of air in the cellular tissues of th& body. In order to differentiate the condition from vesicular emphysema of the lungs, it is also called sub- cutaneous, cellular, or surgical emphysema. It is caused by— 1. Wounds of the lung, occasionally by a punctured wound, more frequently by a sub- cutaneous wound of the lung due to a fractured rib. It may be associated with pneumothorax, but as a rule this complication does not occur owing to cohesion of the visceral and parietal layers of the pleura. In either case, however, air is forced into the cellular tissue during expiration, and appears first in the chest-wall near to the seat of injury. In rare cases the cause may be disease of the lung, e.g. rupture of a vomica or pulmonary abscess. 2. Affections of other parts of the respiratory tract—wounds of the trachea, intubation, ulcera- tion of a bronchus, or of the larynx. Fractures of the skull involving some of the accessory sinuses of the nose may be associated with emphysema, which is usually localised to certain regions, e.g. the orbit. 3. Wounds of the thorax involving the pleura, but not the lung. In rare cases air may be forced during expiration from the pleura into the cellular tissues. 4. Subpleural ruptui-e of pulmonary vesicles by violent expiratory efforts, as in pertussis, less frequently in capillary bronchitis, diphtheria, or in violent straining during parturition. 5. Injury or disease of the alimentary tract —oesophagotomy, perforation of gastric ulcer, ulceration or rupture of the intestine, etc. Symptoms.—The most common cause of sub- cutaneous emphysema is fracture of the ribs.