ECZEMA 27 face tissues. Many handicrafts are in themselves injurious, and their daily piu'suit must be accom- panied by a process of slow attenuation of the resistive power of the skin. A good example of the part played by this resistive power in the face of irritants is the common flannel rash. Rough flannel will not produce a papular eczema in a person whose skin is dry, firmly coherent, and innervated by quiet nerves; but the same flannel worn by the same person when the skin is softened and macerated by excessive sweating, and when the cutaneous nerves are irritable, is sufficient irritation to produce the rash. II. Intrinsic Eczemas.—This class includes the commonest and in many respects the most important forms of eczema. They are to be etiologically distinguished from the eczemas of Classes I. and III. by the fact that the particular irritant exercises very little control over the inflannnatory manifestation, this being mainly determined by the diminished power of resist- ance on the part of the surface-making tissues. We must fix our attention, therefore, on the epithelium, with the underlying double net of capillaries and nerves. It is here that these eczemas are developed. It is difficult to see how any interior organ, or functional disturbance, can have the slightest influence on the origin and maintenance of eczema unless it affects the equilibrium of the surface tissues. I must again repeat that of definite morbiferous particles cap- able of producing these intrinsic eczemas we know absolutely nothing. It is enough for practical purposes to assume that some subtle injury has been inflicted on the epithelium. But we have now to consider those circumstances which increase or diminish the liability of the skin to injury. We may pursue this inquiry in two directions—1st, What are the forces which habitually tend to inhibit or restrain the in- flammatory manifestation 1 2nd, What are the circumstances which influence this power of resistance ? When we consider how large is the (|uantity of blood contained at high pressure within the capillaries, arterioles, and venous channels of the skin, and that their only protection from tlie atmosphere is afibrded by a delicate nervous membrane, we can understand the need for some mechanism of control. In addition to the passive resistance of the fibrous mesh, the inert horny cuticle, and the fat which is so abundantly distributed through the epithelium, there exists an elaborate nervous mechanism for the purpose of restraining the motor excitability of the arterioles and capillaries, and thereby maintain- ing the cohesion of the Ijlood-stream and tlie regularity of its flow. Tlie innervation of the skin is discussed in the article on the anatomy and physiology of the skin, and it will suffice to say here that the evidence points clearly to two sources of control, namely, the brain cortex and the vaso-motor mechanism of the skin itself. The phj'siological experiments of Goltz and Ewald on the dog, of Sherrington on the monkey, and of Saviotti and others on the frog, have clearly demonstrated that transection or removal of the spinal cord does not produce any per- manent alteration in the circulation through the skin, all the functions of which are regularly maintained so long as the animal is jjrotccted from injiu-y. Clinical experience is quite in accord with these physiological results. The extended experience of Drs. Weir Mitchell, Moorhouse, and Keen, on gunshot injuries of nerves, has shown that the complete cutting off of a limb from central nerve influence is not followed by loss of blood tension in the isolated limb, the cohesion of the blood being still maintained. But since the time of Cohnheim's experiments on the cornea, and onwards, it has been a matter of common observation that loss of sensation in the skin greatly increases its liability to injuiry, and therefore to inflammation. In Professor Sherrington's experiments on the monkey, in which the spinal cord had been divided in the cervical region, he frequently observed ulceration over the external malleolus, which he attributed, not to any trophic disturb- ance, but to pressure during the paralysed condition of the limb. The infei'ence to be drawn from tiiese and many other facts of similar import is that the skin receives a considerable share of its power of resistance from the cortex of the brain, but when this source is cut ofl' there still remains a local mechanism in the skin itself which is capable of maintainingthe cohesion and tension of the blood. Further, it may be inferred that any block to those impulses which are constantly descending from the cortex to the periphery, or to those which are constantly ascending from the skin to the brain, greatly increases the liability of the skin to injury, and therefore to serous inflammation. It is a pertinent question whether this highly important and demonstrated fact of the in- dependent nervous conti'ol of the skin may enable us to view the oi-igin of tlie intrinsic eczema in a somewhat new light. In the light of this fact it is not unreasonable to assume that eczema is not something which is "caught" or implanted in the skin, or the elimination of some poison through the cutaneous tissues, but, on the contrary, something the elements of which are present in all of us, and which are only ke]it down by certain natural checks. According to this view eczema is inevitable in all cases where persons have lost their natural securities. If this be the true and right way to regard eczema, as I think it is, then, so far from being a,n entity, it is simply skin, or a portion of skin, temporarily de]>rived of its natural checks to inflammation. These checks or securities withdrawn, the skin inflames, or becomes eczematous, just as water boils when atmospheric pressure is withdrawn, namely, hy