259 FAT EMBOLISM Histology. — The pulmonary capillaries of most arteries are plugged with oil, which stains black with osmic acid. The oil is seen either in homogeneous masses or else resembles a chain of pearls. In the kidneys the globules are mainly seen in the glomerular coils [less abundantly in the vessels of the convoluted tubules]. Clinical Characters.—From two to four days after the majority of fractures fat may be found as small oily droplets in the upper parts of the specimens of ui'ine. The condition lasts for about two weeks, and is as a rule a harmless complication. In rare cases from one to three days after the injury serious symptoms appear. In addition to the presence of fat in the urine thei-e is dyspnoea, which gradually increases, the face is pale, the pulse feeble, and the tem- perature low. In some cases there may be hsemoptysis, with dulness over the lungs and audible rales, but in others no pulmonary changes can be detected. Restlessness, cyan- osis, and localised muscular twitchings have been described. In the coarse of a few hours the pulse becomes weaker and more rapid, there is somnolency which increases till the patient is comatose, and usually from five to twenty hours after the onset of the symptoms death super- venes cither in coma or from pulmonary cedema. Diagnosis.—The symptoms, except in rare cases, do not appear until 24-72 hours after the injury, while the onset of shock is rapid. Ordinary pulmonary embolism is usually a later occurrence than fat embolism. Acute urajmia is excluded by the presence of fat in the urine, and by the absence of such signs as albumin and casts in the urine, convulsions, vomiting, etc. Prognosis.—Although fat embolism may aid in causing a fatal result it is very rarely the sole cause of death. Thus, Mech in 1892 could find records of only seventeen cases where no other cause of death was ascertainable. The gravity of any case depends on the extent of the fat embolism and on the natural powers of resist- ance of the individual. If those serious symp- toms already described should ensue, the prognosis is very grave. Treatment is of little avail, and can only be directed to the relief of symptoms. Warmth, counter-irritation to the chest, and stimulants— alcohol, digitalis, ether, and oxygen—may be serviceable, especially if the dyspnoea be urgent. Fat Necrosis.—The occurrence of white patches, size of a hazel nut or larger, in the sub- peritoneal tissue and in the omentum and mesentery ; it is caused by the splitting up of fat (perhaps under the influence of a fat- splitting ferment of the pancreas) into glycerine and fatty acids, the former being absorbed and the latter uniting with lime to form the opaque patches; it would seem to be due in some way to an interference with the secretion of the pancreas and to its consequent passage into the lymphatics or blood-vessels. See Pancreas, Diseases {I'atholoijical Considerations, Fat ]Vec7'osis). Fatigue. See Physiology, Tissues (Muscle, Factors modifying Contraction); Physio- logy, Nervous System {Brain, Fatifjue of Cerebral Meckanism). Fats.—F;its are ethereal salts or esters, and from them soaps can be formed (by the action of metallic hydroxides); stearine (gly- ceryl tristearate) is the chief constituent of hard fats, and it enters largely into the com- 2)osition of suet {Sevwm Praeparatnm of the Pharmacopoeia) of cacao butter [Oleum Theo- hromatis) ; lard (Adeps) and benzoated lard (Adeps Benzoatus) are also official preparations, and contain a large proportion of olein along with stearine and palmitine ; lard, with some of the oils expressed, is used (as Adeps induratus) in India and the Colonies. Fats split up into fatty acids and glycerine, but some, such as those obtained from sheep's wool (see Lanoline or Adeps Lance Ili/drosus), yield cholesterine instead of glycerine. See Adeps ; Fat ; Lano- line ; Prescribing ; etc. Fatty Degreneration. See cdso Fat. —A peculiar degenerate change in the tissues consisting in the formation of fatty granules in the cell cytoplasm; it often follows upon cloudy swelling (q.v.), and, like it, is due to the action (longer and more marked) of a toxine, such as tliat of one of the exanthemata or of septictcmia; it is also found associated with phosphorus or chloroform poisoning, in diabetes mellitus, in aiifcmia, in paralysed muscle, in atheromatous arteries, and in some neoplasms; the organ affected has a lessened consistence, a yellowish or yellowish white colour, and shows greasiness on section ; and the presence of fatty degenera- tion in a tissue can usually be demonstrated by osmic acid, but for exact work this reagent is faulty as it does not stain all the fatty cells black. Fatty Infiltration.—Fatty infiltration is likewise a retrogressive change in cell-life, but it has been separated (somewhat artificially) from fatty degeneration; it has been regarded as a simple accumulation of fat globules in a tissue and not as a change of the tissue elements themselves into fat; it is w'ell seen in the liver; and it is due to an increased absorption or a diminished elimination of fat; it may be associ- ated with fatty degeneration. Fatuity.—Mental imbecility or stui)idity ; dementia; Fafuitas Aljiicolarnm or ConiHttlina are synonyms of Cretinism {<pv.).