346 FRACTURES nerve sutured. In children and boys I have a great distrust of compound separations of the epiphyses, 'especially when they occur at the shoulder and knee, for osteomyelitis readily occurs, and the patient dies even when amputa- tion has been performed. Old people, I think, should undei'go amputation in doubtful cases, whilst children and adults should receive the benefit of the doubt. Secondary amputations are often more hazardous than primary opera- tions, because the condition of the patient is less satisfactory. A secondary amputation is required in gangrene, where there is septic absorption associated with osteomyelitis or extensive suppuration, and as a last resource in cases of non-union or union in such a bad position as to render the limb useless. Treatment.—Success in the treatment of a fracture depends upon the maintenance of the broken ends of the bone in the best apposition possible until they are soundly healed, taking- care that the surrounding tissues are neither crippled by disuse nor are invoh^ed unduly in the accompanying inflammatory changes. The objects to be attained by treatment in every fracture of a long bone are firm, bony union, good position, and a useful limb. The treat- ment of fractures resolves itself, therefore, into reduction with subsequent fixation. Reduction is the manipulation employed to bring the broken ends of the bone into their natural relation to each other. It may be necessary, useful, or harmful; easy, difficult, or impossible. Reduction without any delay is necessary in a depressed or punctured fracture in the skull, since cerebral symptoms may be produced ; in a broken nose, because the nasal bones unite so rapidly that the deformity very soon becomes permanent; and when the sharp- ness of the fragments threatens to convert a simple into a compound fracture. Reduction is useful in nearly every simple fracture of a long bone, but it may be positively harmful in some cases of impacted fracture, as in those connected with intra-capsular fractures of the hip and shoulder, or in a fracture of the outer table of the skull. Reduction is easy in most fractures, but impaction, muscular spasm, or the inter- position of the soft tissues, may render it difficult or even impossible to bring the two ends of the broken bone into good apposition; although early reduction is desirable in most fractures. No attempt should be made, therefore, to reduce a fracture until the surgeon is ready to " put it up " permanently, and until everything is ready the injured part should be kept at rest by a temporary splint. A bandage and sling may be sufficient for the arm, but in the case of the leg the limb must be supported by improvised splints, by securing it to a pillow with a bandage placed above and below the seat of fracture, by sand-bags, or by the help of an assistant to restrain the awkward and involuntary move- ments which may so easily convert a simple into a compound fracture, or may even drive a sharp fragment of bone through a large artery or vein. Such care is especially needful when the patient has to be moved from the place of accident to his house or to the hospital, since helpers are more often willing than handy. Reduction is effected by extension and counter- extension, the force being applied whenever it is possible by assistants, that the surgeon may have his hands free to manipulate the injured part and to apply the splint as soon as he has satisfied himself that the position of the broken ends is sufticiently satisfactory. There are many cases in which mere force will avail nothing, and the surgeon must resort to a variety of manoeuvres before he can rediice the fracture, and allusion will be made to this in dealing with the fractures of individual bones. Anaes- thesia is often a valuable aid when reduction is difficult, but the surgeon who has to treat such a case in private must bear in mind that the- patient's struggles whilst he is becoming uncon- scious, or unskilled efforts to restrain them, may lead to serious injury at the seat of fracture. The broken limb must be fixed securely as soon as it has been "set," for it is characteristic- of fractures that the deformity is reproduced as readily as it is reduced. It is usually im- possible to obtain perfect apposition, for the deformity is produced by the whole of the soft parts surrounding the bone, and not by the action of the muscles alone as was formerly thought; still the deformity can often be diminished by a skilful surgeon. Fixation is of the greatest service in cases of fracture. It lulls the pain, allays or prevents inflammation, and favours repair with the least possible amount of callus. But the method of fixation has been carried to excess, for it has- been used to the exclusion of all other methods, of treatment. It has, too, the disadvantage of causing atrophy of the bones, muscles, skin, and connective tissue, whilst the joints and tendons- may become hampered from prolonged disuse. It is not surprising, therefore, that a very justi- fiable reaction against the employment of fixa- tion has taken place during the last few years. The reaction has been carried to an extreme by some surgeons, but there can be no doubt that the early release of a limb from splints, passive movements, skilfully applied shampooing, and the wiring of certain fractures, has been attended with much better results than the older practice of complete fixation carried out rigorously for many weeks. Every case must be treated on its merits, and not on a principle of routine. Success depends very largely upon the vigilance of the surgeon, and upon the attention which he- gives to details apparently trivial and minute. Splints and plaster of Paris bandages or cases, form at present the most usual and easiest