297 FIRST AID ever, in dislocations of the phalanges, as happens when a cricket ball strikes the tip of the finger, reduction can be effected by pulling on the distal portion. (iii.) Means of Transport.—The transport of the injured depends greatly on the amount of assistance the patient himself can give; if he is able to walk the injured person jjlaces his sound arm round the assistant's neck, while the latter places his arm i-ound the patient's waist. When walking is impossible, two people can carry an individual by means of the two-handed seat. Facing each other, the two assistants grasp right and left hands low down, while the disengaged arms are placed on each other's waist to form a back. The three-handed seat is made by an assistant A grasping one of his own wrists, the second assistant B now seizes with one hand A's only free wrist, while A's dis- engaged hand grasps B's wrist; a back is formed l)y the second assistant B jslacing his free arm on A's shoulder, l^he four-handed seat is made by each assistant grasping one of his wrists, e.g. the left with the right hand, their disengaged hands now grasp each other's free wrists; the patient here must be able to help by placing his arms round the assistants' necks. Strctcliers can be made from doors, j^lanking, poles interlaced with rope, unloaded guns, or poles pushed through the mouth of a sack and nut at the two bottom corners. Coats, especi- ally overcoats, can be utilised by turning the sleeves inside out; the coat is then buttoned in the ordinary way ; poles or guns are now pushed through the sleeves. All stretchers should be tested before using them. The method of lifting the patient on to the stretcher depends on the number of assistants ; for instance, if there are three. A, B, and C, A kneels on one knee by the injured side, and if it is a fracture of the lower extremity he devotes his attention to it. B and C kneel on their right knees on the other side and place their arms beneath the patient's buttocks, back, and shoulders; at a given signal all lift together and lay tiie patient across their left thighs; pausing for a moment. A, B, and C then assume the erect posture and carry the patient to the sti'etcher, where the performance is reversed. The stretcher should be carried with short steps and the knees slightly bent. In the convey- ance of a patient by rail two or three boards should be placed across the seats of a carriage and the stretcher laid on them, assistants sitting HI between to steady the injured person. (iv.) Unconsciousness, Fits, etc.—When a l)erson is discovered in an tmconscious or semi- coiiscions condition the first thing that must be done is to loosen the clothing about the neck, and to maintain the body warmth, then investigation of the cause may be proceeded with. Fiiintiiii/, with its attendant languor, pallor, i and feeble pulse, should be treated by keeping the head low, with external and internal stimula- tion, provided the bleeding point, if there be one, is secured. Bjn/ej^itic Jits are generally characteristic, a warning cry followed by a fall and rigidity ; this condition is followed by clonic convulsions with frothing at the mouth, often blood-stained ; then comes a lethargic sleep, from which it is diflicult to rouse the patient. If such a case be seen at the onset of the clonic convulsions sometliing should be placed between the teeth so as to prevent the tongue being lacerated ; care must be taken not to knock the teeth out. When the convulsive stage has passed off an endeavour should be made to obtain the patient's name and address, as a lucid interval occurs in some cases at this time. "Fits" in children, tliough alarming, do not of necessity imply great seriousness, as they are frequently reflex to some peripheral irritation. I/j/sterical fits may resemble epileptic, but there is not the profound sequence of events; tlie patient is not hurt by tlie fall, and the con- junctivae are sensitive. Cold water liberally applied is a most useful restorative. A-poplexy occurs in the elderly : the sudden onset, the vacant face, stertorous breathing- through frothy lijis, the unequal pupils with insensitive conjunctivae, and the paralytic con- dition of one side, are as a rule sufficient evidence of the ailment. It may resemble alcoholic poisoning, but is more profound, the unilateral paralysis and unequal jjupils assisting the diagnosis of the graver affection. Uramie fits may resemble epileptic or apo- plectic, and if the person so affected be known to suffer from kidney disease, an endeavour should be made to induce perspiration by the application of numerous hot bottles. In urajmic coma the pupils are equal, and the loud hissing character of the breathing assists in distinguish- ing it from apoplexy. Excessive moist heat is the common cause of sunstroke, the symptoms taking the form either of shock or of sudden unconsciousness, char- acterised by a feeble pulse, cold skin, witli rapidly failing respiration and circulation ; the prompt treatment of this condition by fi'ee douching with cold water often restores the patient. Among the poisons which produce inicon- sciousness opi-um is the commonest; the charac- teristic symptoms of pin-point pupils, stertorous breathing, and intense drowsiness are generally present when aid is summoned. If seen early emetics may be given, such as mustard and hot water, a teaspoonful to the tumbler repeated every ten minutes; it is better, however, to wash out the stomach if a tube can be obtained, then potassium permanganate can be given, 8 or 10 grains, and the patient kept moving; if this is impossible he can be roused somewhat