EPIDEMIOLOGY number of unprotected persons accumulate to set agoing a new outbreak. It follows from what we have said that a definitive classification is at present impossible. The following groups, however, indicate to some extent the epidemic affinities of the more im- portant of tlie diseases with which we are concerned :— 1. Diseases caused by obligatory parasites and s|)read by contagion. To this class belong small-pox, measles, whooping-cough, mumps, chicken pox, and less certainly typhus and cerebro-spinal fever. 2. Diseases caused by non-obligatory para- sites which spread by contagion ; but as their contagia are capable of sapi-ophytic growth, they are also diffused by infection. In this group of contagious - infectious diseases are scarlet fever, dijjhtheria, and erysipelas, and probably relapsing fever, influenza, and dengue. 3. Diseases caused by non-obligatory para- sites which are spread mainly by infection. The microbes of this group, although derived more or less remotely from a previous case, nuiltiply outside the bodj^ and are introduced into tlie system by means of air, water, food, or in the instance of plague, and perhaps of yellow fever, by inoctdation. This group comprises cholera, plague, Malta fever, enteric fever, dysentery, and yellow fever. 4. Malarial fever is caused by a hrematozoon. It is communicable by the sting of a malariated mosquito, but the etiology of the disease points to other modes of infection. It is still uncer- tain if the parasite of blackwater fever is dis- tinct from that of malaria. Isolation of, and avoidance of couninniication with, the sick, or contact with contaminated articles are the means of limiting the spread of diseases belonging to the first class. Defective sanitation is only of imjjortance in promoting their spread in so far as it predisposes the body to infection. Isolation is still the most important means of limiting the spread of the second group. But here tlie need of protecting milk and food from contamination is obvious. Sanitation also comes into greater prominence, inasmuch as an impure soil may serve as a breeding-place for the germs, while noxious effluvia and sewage gases may at once predispose to attack, and serve as vehicles for the infection. In respect to the third class the first indica- tion is to prevent the introduction of the germ into a healthy country or locality by measures of quarantine, inspection, and disinfection proper to the particular disease to he guarded against, and suited to the circumstances of the community. Of primary importance for the safety of a community is attention to purity of air, soil, and water, witii free ventilation and sunlight, so as to deprive the microbe of breed- ing-places, prevent the contamination of the vehicles l)y which tlie contagiuni is conveyed into the system, and subject the virus to the action of the natural agencies tiiat are antagon- istic to its vitality. The prevention of malarial diseases requires that a country be rendered unfit for the life of its insect host by means of drainage and cultiva- tion. Individual prophylaxis does not come within the scope of this article. To sum up : for an epidemy of a disease belonging to the first and second groups there must be (a) the virus; (6) a susceptible jiopula- tion ; (c) free inter-communication between the sick and the susceptible. For the epidemic prevalence of a disease belonging to the third group there must be (*•/) the virus ; (A) a breed- ing-place for it outside man ; (c) means of trans- port from place to place ; (d) a vehicle for its diffusion ; (e) a susceptible population. Isolated cases of an epidemic disease may occur when some of these conditions are absent, but in order that an infectious disease should become widely diffused, they must all be present. Genehal Epidemiology Epidemic 2IovemenU — Law of Antici'pation — Associations and Antaf/onisms — Evolution and Invohttion of Epidonies Epidemic ifoVEMENrs. —The distinguishing feature of epidemic diseases, as the name im- plies, is their alternating periods of quiescence and recrudescence, but other movements, less obvious, because more gradual in their evolu- tion, have also to be considered. Some of the more important epidemic phenomena fall under the following heads:—1. Secular mutations occurring during the course of centuries. 2. Multiannual nutations, to use the phrase of Ransonie, or fluctuations in prevalence and virulence extending over periods of from ten to fifty years. 3. Epidemic waves or explosions recurring at more or less regular intervals of a few years. 4. Seasonal fluctuations. 5. Oscillations at irregular intervals measured by days or weeks. I. Secular Mutations. — Under the term secular mutations are comprised {a) changes in the relative importance of a particular disease or class of diseases, developing during the course of ages ; {b) the appearance of new epidemic diseases, or the extension of old ones to regions from which they had been previously absent; (c) the extinction or modification of epidemic dis- eases ; {d) the temporary assumption of epidemic characters by sporadic infectious maladies. (a) A study of the history of epidemic dis- eases shows a certain malady or class of maladies coming to the front on the epidemic scene, play- ing the chief role for a longer or shorter time, and then retiring to give place to others. We have an example of this kind of secular move- ment in the predominating importance of plague