129 ENZYMES fishes, amphibia, and reptiles there is a diastatic ferment which converts starch, glycooen, and maltose into d-glucose. Milk sugar and cane sugar are not affected by this ferment. A diastatic enzyme could also be detected in watery extracts of the pancreatic juice, the thyroid gland, the testicles, and the mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestine. In this instance, too, starcli, glycogen, and maltose were hydrolysed. Tlie diastatic ferment of the pancreas which we have now to consider is that which has been longest known, but as yet it has not been sufficiently separated from the other ferments of the pancreatic juice. The optimum temperature lies about 38°-41°, the temperature at which the enzyme is de- stroyed being 65" - 70". It is of practical importance to know that the enzyme is destroyed by the sti'onger acids and alkalies, that most of the salts, with the exception of Glauber's salt and sulphate of magnesia, tend to prouiote its action, and that quinine, mor- phine, and strychnine have no effect on it. The diastatic ferment of the pancreas is pro- bably, like all the other pancreatic enzymes, contained in the gland merely in the form of a sparingly soluble zymogen, and that fi'om this substance the enzyme is formed (in the presence of air, for example). The diastatic function of the liver is also of great physiological significance. After what has been said in the inti'oductory remarks with regard to the bacterial cell, it appears to be quite immaterial whether this diastatic function be due to the activity of the hepatic cells them- selves or to an enzyme which has been separated from them. We have probably to deal here with an " endoferraent," namely, an enzyme which during life is active inside the hepatic cells only, but which is set free after their death. The diastatic ferment of the liver is concerned with tlie conversion of glycogen into grape sugar; hence in the life of the animal it plays exactly the same parts as do the diastatic ferments in the vegetable kingdom in regard to the starches collected in the store - houses of reserve material. {h) Inverting] Enzymes. — The inverting fer- ments are those by means of which cane sugar and other disaccharides are split up. The one best known is invertin (invertase), which converts cane sugar into d-glucose and d-fructose. C,„H,,0„ + H„0 = C„H,,0„ + C,H,,06 (d-glucose) (d-fructose) Invertin was first discovered by Dubrunfaut in 1847 in yeast, watery extracts of which also contain invertin. Hence the enzyme is soluble in water and separable from the cells. On precipitation of a watery solution with alcohol the enzyme is carried down along with the albuminous bodies of the yeast ; by extraction with water it is dissolved from the alcoholic VOL. Ill I)recipitate, and separated from tlie .dbuminous bodies, which are now insoluble, and it can then, of course, be precipitated by alcohol from the watery solution. By fractional precipitation with ammonium sulphate (Wroblewski) a rela- tively pure preparation with 16'.53 per cent N is also obtained, which from its reactions is an albuminous body, which, however, appears in nature in combination with a hitlierto unknown carbohydrate. The optimum temperature lies somewhere about 56' (J., while the temjierature which kills the enzyme is about 70°. Acids in small amount (^L to 1 per cent acetic acid) are favourable to its action ; acids in greater quantity, as well as quite a slight excess of alkali, tend to inhibit its action. Some of the salts (ammonium salts) aid, while others (potas- sium chloride) retard its activity, and alcohol is injurious. The quantity of inverted cane sugar is projjortional to the amount of ferment pre- sent. Cane sugar up to 20 per cent favoiu-s the inversion. Yeast invertin dialyses and also passes through porcelain filters : it is therefore improbable that the inversion occurs in the substance of the cell only, as is assumed by many authors, and that such an excretion of invertin points to a degeneration of the yeast cells. At all events the elaboration and excre- tion of the ferment seem to be connected with the state of nutrition of the cells. Insufficient access of oxygen tends to promote the giving off of invertin. All yeasts do not produce invertin, yet the majority of the true yeasts and also the white and red yeasts appear to do so. Invertin seems to occiu- also in the leaves and flowers of the higher plants. Inverting ferments have, moreover, been found in a few forms of fungi (Penicillium glaucum, Aspergillus niger), in B. megaterium, Proteus vulgaris, B. of Kiel harbour, B. fluorescens liquefaciens, etc. In addition to the ferments whicli split up cane sugar there are in the vegetable kingdom, apart from the yeasts, other ferments which split uj) milk sugar into d-galactose and d-glucose, raelitriose into d-fructose and meli- biose, and melibiose into d-glucose and d- galactose. In the animal kimjJorn the inverting ferments are likewise widely distributed. The splitting up of cane sugar in the intestinal canal of man, the dog, and the rabbit, must be referre 1 to the action of invertin. Indeed, the extract of Bruuner's and Lieberktihn's glands is inactive. There is, moreover, the possibility of the in- verting ferment in the intestinal canal being- identical with the diastatic enzyme. Milk sugar is in general not decomposed in the small intestine of man and the animals ; hydi'olysis of milk sugar has only i)een proved to occur in the small intestine of newly-born children and of young calves, dogs, etc. (c) Enzymes ivhicli split up Glucosides.—The 9