55 ELBOW-JOINT, EEGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF regarded as the chief danger of this operation. The nerve should not be seen. It Hes between the olecranon and the internal condyle, and is retracted with the other struc- tures. There is no danger if the operator keeps close to the bone in separating the tissues from the internal epicondyle and from the posterior I'idge of the ulna. The posterior interosseous nerve has been injured in clearing the head of the radius. If excision be performed in the child the epiphyseal line should be preserved in the re- moval of the articular humeral end. Excision through a jMsterior Median Incision. (Park and Maisouneuve.) — In regard to the position of the surgeon and his assistant the same rules hold good as in operations in general. The forearm of the afl'ected limb is best carried aci'oss the chest. Though some depi-e- cate the use of the tourniquet, its application has a decided and immediate advantage in securing a better view of the parts. The incision has for its centre the prominent olecranon, extends upwards over the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and downwards along the posterior ridge of the ulna, in extent generally about four inches, and median in position. The incision is carried down to the bone, dividing the triceps ajjoneurosis and the posterior liga- ment of the joint. By a suitable retractor the divided skin and triceps aponeurosis on the inner side are held aside, while the inner surface of the olecranon process and the intei-nal epicondyle are laid bare. The knife should be kept close to the bone and the periosteum separated as far as possible. If this be faithfully followed the ulnar nerve is drawn inwards with the separated internal lateral ligament and the flexor group of muscles. The retractor is now transferred to the outer side, and the tissues separated from the ole- cranon on its outer aspect and from the external epicondyle. Part of the anconeus should be preserved as already indicated. By flexing the forearm the lower end of the humerus can now be thrust through the woimd and its anterior surface cleared. It is then seized with lion forceps and divided at right angles to its long axis. This is attained by holding the humerus in the vertical position. The line of division is j\ist below the epicondyles. The soft parts should be protected. The upper end of the ulna and radius are now rendered prominent and made to project through the wound. The attachment of the anterior ligament is detached, the olecranon seized with lion forceps, and the saw so applied as to remove a part of the head of the radius and the olecranon at its base at one division. The remaining cavity is now irrigated, the tourniquet removed, and the bleeding points secured. The edges of the triceps should be sutured and a drain used. In fixing the limb after an excision the fore- arm should be in a position midway between supination and pronation, and the fingers left free. As to the fixation angle there is some difference of opinion; some suggest an open angle, some a right angle, some less than a right angle. All claim a good result. Passive motion should be commenced when the wound is healed. Of the other methods of excision a few words will suffice. A strictly subperiosteal method is described by Farabeuf. Tlie same incision is employed as that just mentioned, and practically the only difference is an attempt to make the oj^eration more decidedly subperiosteal. Then there is the H-shaped incision of Moreau, consisting of two vertical and a transverse incision, the latter completely dividing the triceps. Some omit the outer vertical limb of the H (Listen), others the inner (Roux). Instead of a median vertical incision it was recommended by Chassaignac to make the in- cision along the outer side of the olecranon, and by Langenbeck along the inner side. The exposure of the joint by lateral incisions is regarded by some as more suitable in cases of ankylosis. In Ollier's method the lateral incisions are of unequal length. That on the outer side commences about 2 to 2^ inches above the external epicondyle, between the triceps and supinator longus, is continued down to the epicondyle, and then obliquely across the ole- cranon to its inner border, down which it is continued for \ h to 2 inches. This is the bayonet- incision. That on the inner side is only about an inch in length, and is made over the internal epicon- dyle. The bones are denuded of their periosteal, ligamentous, and muscular coverings throtigh these openings, and the operation concluded as in the other method. In Hueter's modification the lateral incisions are also of miequal length. The inner incision, like Ollier's, is only about an inch in length, and is over the internal epicondyle, but more in its anterior aspect. Through this incision the internal lateral ligament and flexor group are separated. The external incision, 4 inches in length, has for its centre the external epicondyle, is situated more posterior than anterior, and is practically vertical. Through this incision the head of the radius is exposed and the orbicular ligament divided. This enables the head of the radius to be I'emoved. Through both incisions the lower end of the humerus is deprived of its ligamentous connection and periosteal lining, and is removed The olecranon is divided at its base. According to Mideledorf the results after excision, as indicated by collected statistics, are