ENTEROPTOSIS 121 remains a (fim&tio vejcata. Any conclusion as to whether a floating kidney, a wandering spleen, a fallen stomach, or a movable liver, individuall}' or in combination, really constitute an incomplete form of enterojjtosis or not must be left for future systematism to determine. It would conduce to case of understanding if the word splanchnoptosis M'ere to l)e used to cover multiple displacements of abdominal organs, enteroptosis being confined only to intestinal prolapse, and the other special names to the dis- location of the several organs. Etiology.—Many have been the theories ad- vanced to explain the causes of enteroptosis, theories wliich contradict one another in almost evei-y particular. Owing to the uncertainty attaching to the actual lesions which are included under the term enteroptosis, any attempt to porti-ay the etiology of the disease as an entity presents great difliculties to the writer. Glenard's dis- ease, as interpreted by himself, would seem to depend upon weakness of the ligamentous bands suspending the several organs concerned to the abdominal parietes. Glenard, in his original descrijition, pointed out that the greater length of the intestinal tract compared with the same measurement of the cavity housing it—about ten times as long —necessitates arrangement of it in coils,—coils suspended by a series of ligamentous attach- ments to the posterior wall of the cavity. At each point where a coil bends to join the loop above or below it a sharper curve is fornied. These points are ^particularly apt to hinder the passage of the intestinal contents, and if the bowel fall at one point its traction upon the next of these j'oints d'ap2mi will serve to drag, and possibly stretch, the ligaments, with the result that further descent is rendered probable. A downward displacement of the colon and small intestine is logically followed by descent of the stomach, with or without antecedent signs of dilatation, as the removal of sujiport from the stomach given it under normal condi- tions by the bowels, aided by the elastic pressure of the abdominal walls and of the atmosphere outside them, causes a strain Tipon the gastro- duodenal ligament which it is unable to bear unaided. A dilated stomach of pronounced character, where stasis of the contents occurs and large accumulations of material gather, favours dis- placement by its size, and tends to cause descent of other organs. The gastro - duodenal ligament or small omentum is not invested with any great power of resistance, and the same is true of the meso- colon. Dislocation of the organs sujjported by these membranes is therefore not uncommon, nor surprising, and the descent of the one generallj- implies falling of the other. The downward displacement of the whole stomach involves stretching of the oesophagus and its attachments. The condition known as pyloroptosis results when the pyloric portion of the stomach descends without change of jjosition of the cardia. Glenard claimed a constant connection be- tween one or other displacement of individual organs and a general tendency towards ali- dominal descent, a " ptosical diathesis." There is abundant evidence to prove that falling-down of the stomach as a whole, or of the transverse colon, is prone to lead to dislocation in other organs; and that the cause of one organ's descent may very well account for displacement of others; but equally clear evidence can be given as to the actual occurrence of ptosis in single organs unaccompanied by any general displacement, at least to any noteworthy extent, as, for example, in floating kidney. Again, enteroptosis per se may follow other displacements, and is by no means invariably attended by signs or symptoms of disease, although several authorities assert the contrary opinion. Still there are some who attribute entero- l^tosis to congenital predisposition. Stiller, for instance, describes the condition as one in wiiich "downward displacement of the stomach, small intestine, the right or both kidneys, the liver occasionally, and the spleen still less frequently, occurs owing to weakening of the peritoneal folds." " It arises from an inborn, j^i'obably inherited predisposition, which largely de^jcnds upon weakness of the central and digestive nerve systems." Stiller further believes that the mobility of the tenth rib varies with the degree of neuras- thenic dyspepsia jDresent, and consequently with the displacement of the abdominal viscera accompanying it. Nervous dyspepsia and entero- ptosis are seldom seen apart from one another. Although Stiller disregards the effects pro- duced by tight lacing on the stomach, there is little doubt that the unnatural conditions caused thereby are caj)able of originating enteroptosis with or without nervous habit or hereditary slackness. Nervous dyspejisia may arise from antecedent enterojitosis ; enteroptosis cannot be the offspring of nervous dyspepsia (Herzog). KcUing supposed that a direct connection existed between the change in position of the stomach, the jjroportion of haemoglobin in the blood, and the condition of bodily nutrition ; but Kiittner and Dyer, in 18 healthy subjects, whose ages ranged from 10 to 70 years, with a mean of 30], found the percentage of luemo- globin to be 81-1 (50-95), while 18 similar subjects presenting signs of gastroj)tosis, with 33'3 years as their mean age, gave 81'8 per cent of hiemoglobin (62-90), no diminution of hemo- globin had occurred. Perhaps it may be postulated, from the more