GANGLION 392 Gang^lion. TIeptnttton JllH Liy i. 1.1 \JLi • • • > . 392 Causation .... . 392 Situation .... . 392 Pathological Anatomy . . 392 Signs and Symptoms . 392 Diagnosis .... . 393 Treatment .... . 393 (a) Non-operative . 393 (b) Operative . . 393 See also BuRSiE, Injuries and Diseases of {Bursoe of Palm, Compound Ganglion); Hand {Tenosynovitis); Wrist-Joint, Diseases {Tuber- cular Tenosynovitis). Definition.—The word ganglion denotes a localised swelling in connection with a tendon sheath. It is derived from yayyAiov, a hard swelling. Such a swelling is primarily cystic in nature, though it may happen that the cavity of the cyst becomes so encroached upon by the fibrous tissue of the wall as to render the tumour almost completely solid. Causation.—There is still a considerable diversity of opinion as to the exact etiology of cysts in relation to, or in connection with tendon sheaths. They may arise from—(1) The hernial protrusion of the synovial mem- brane of the sheath through the outer fibrous tunic, (2) a colloid degeneration of the cells of the synovial fringes, (3) the dilatation of the sub-synovial crypts or follicles of the tendon sheath or adjacent joint cavities, (4) a chronic teno-synovitis, and possibly (5) tuberculous affection of the synovial membrane of the tendon sheath. There are other cystic swellings that may occur in the same regions as those that are the common sites of ganglia, which, although closely resembling true ganglia, have their origin quite apart from a tendon sheath. Among these may be mentioned bursse, hygromata, and hydatid cysts. True ganglia are present more frequently in the female than in the male sex, and are most prevalent from ten to thirty years of age. Certain occupations and pursuits are apt to be predisposing causes. Musicians, laundry workers, and others who exercise greatly the muscles of the fingers, are peculiarly likely to be affected. Situation. — Ganglia are most frequently found associated with the tendons of the ex- tensor and flexor muscles of the wrist, fingers, ankle, and toes, and are particularly liable to affect the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor indicis, though the extensors of the thumb are almost equally involved. All of these tendons, it will be observed, are on the radial side of the wrist. On the dorsum of the foot the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis are the tendons that are most commonly the source of origin. Occasionally ganglia may arise about the insertion of the hamstrings, and still more rarely about the elbow. Pathological Anatomy. — The tumour is covered, at any rate primarily, with healthy skin, to which it is not adherent. As a rule there is a fibrous cyst wall A^arying in its thick- ness. This is more or less perfectly lined by endothelial cells, capable of secreting a char- acteristic fluid. The colloid material found within the sac possesses the consistence of honey that has been strained, and is usually colourless and alkaline in reaction. It is dis- tinctly proper to ganglia, not being found in any other cavity, being as characteristic of them as the contents of a sebaceous or of a dermoid cyst are for such. It is altogether different from bursal or ordinary synovial fluid. Ganglionic cysts are attached in nearly every case, as can be demonstrated by careful dissec- tion, to one or more of the neighbouring tendon sheaths, and in addition to the capsule of the joint which is adjacent to them. Intercom- munication, however, between the synovial cavity of the tendon sheath or of the joint and the interior of the ganglion is the exception rather than the rule. Signs and Symptoms.—Signs.—Ganglia occur as prominent swellings, varying much in size, but seldom attaining a greater magnitude than that of a walnut. Sometimes they are dis- tinctly globular or hemispherical in shape, and at others flattened. To the touch they are generally densely hard, hence the origin of the term "ganglion," but they may be of a softer character, and they may fluctuate readilj^, while, when tense, and owing to the nature of the contained fluid, fluctuation cannot always be obtained, yet they are in every instance truly elastic. When present on the palmar aspect of the fingers in connection with their flexor tendons, they may be so firm as to be mistaken for solid tumours. They may become appar- ently diminished in size according to the posi- tion assumed by the joint near which they lie. When the wrist is their situation they will be more tense and prominent when this joint is flexed ventrally, and seemingly almost dis- appear when it is again fully extended. With the motions of the fingers or toes there may be some movements communicated to the gang- lionic swellings. Symptoms. — The possessor of a ganglion usually complains of the deformity caused by the swelling, and attributes pain to it especially on putting into action the muscles upon the tendons of which it appears to be. This pain may be so severe as to prevent the sufferer from firmly grasping an object in the hand, or of walking in boots with comfort. A sense of weakness of the part is almost always present. Occasionally the actual pain is referred to some distance up the limb. In hysterical or neurotic