2 EBULLITION Ebullition.—The process of boiling {e.g. in Pharmacy); also, formerly, the supposed state of agitation in the blood or " humours " giving rise to inflammation and fever. Eburna,tion.—An ivory-like condition of osseous tissue, due to excessive deposition of calcareous mateiial; also, ossification of articular cartilage. See Rheumatoid Arthritis. Ecbaliium Elaterium.—TheSquirt- ing Cucumber, from the fruit of which the drastic purgative, elaterium, is obtained. See Elaterium. EcboliCS. — Medicinal substances which stimulate contractions in the parturient, puer- peral, and (sometimes) in the pregnant uterus; they include ergot, quinine, savin, and all powerful purgatives, and they all act also as emmenagogues; oxytocics. See Abortion ; Emmenagogues ; Ergot ; Pharmacology ; etc. Eccentricity.—A deviation or tendency to deviate from the usual or normal in habits and modes of action; oddity or irregularity in behaviour. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms. Ecchymosis. — An extravasation or effusion of blood, from Gr. kK^yp-oia-dai, to extravasate blood, into the subcutaneous or sub- mucous or subserous tissue, causing a patch of discoloration ; it cannot be removed by pressure ; when the extravasated blood is sufficient in amount to cause a swelling, it is termed an Ecchymoma. See Hysteria [Disorders of Circula- tion, Ecchymoses); Post - Mortem Methods {External Examination, Ante-mortem Bruising and Post-mortem Lividity); Purpura {Character of the Cutaneous Haemorrhage); Scurvy in Adults {Clinical Features, Ecchymoses). " EcchymotiC Mask."—The rare result of sudden and forcible compression of the chest or abdomen, or of both ; the face and neck become at once suffused, and take on a con- tinuous violet coloration with darker spots here and there; it is believed that strong, although unconscious struggling efforts on the part of the person so crushed may aid in the production of the " mask"; recovery may take place, and when death occurs it is usually due to multiple injuries of the abdominal and thoracic organs or of the skeleton. EcCOprOSiS.—Defgecation (from Gr. ex, out, and KOTrpo?, dung); an eccoprotic is a mild purgative medicine, and eccoprosioesthesis is the sensation of the need of evacuating the bowels. EccyeslS. — Ectopic or extra - uterine pregnancy. See Ectopic Gestation. Ecdemic.—As applied to disease ecdemic means arising from a cause outside the locality, and not affecting the great bulk of the popula- tion ; it is, therefore, an antonym of endemic and epidemic. EcgOnine. — An alkaloid (CgH^^NOg-f- HgO), obtained by the decomposition of cocaine ; with benzoic anhydride it yields benzoyl-ecgonine, and, on the other hand, cocaine, long in contact with hot water, acids, or alkalies, breaks up into benzoyl-ecgonine and methyl alcohol (Cj.jH.2jN0^ -I- H^O = CjyH^gNO^ -h CH3OH); ordinary cocaine is benzoyl-methyl ecgonine. See also Cocaine. EchinOCOCCUS.—The larva of Tajnia Echinococcus or the Hydatid. See Hydatid Disease ; see also Broad Ligament, Diseases {Echinococci); Liver, Diseases {Cysts); Para- sites {Cestodes); Spleen, Surgery op {Echino- coccus Cysts). EchinorrhynchuS. —Anunsegmented worm, having a protractile proboscis (Gr. kylvos, hedgehog, and jouyxosj snout), occurring as an intestinal parasite in the lower animals, rarely in man; there is the echinorrhynchus hominis, the e. gigas, and the e. moniliformis. See Parasites {Acanthocephali). Echis. See Snake-Bites {Viperidae, Echis or " F'ursa"). Echitamine.—An alkaloid (CggHggNgO^) of " Dita" (the bark of Echites or Alstonia scholaris); ditaine. Echitenin (CggHg^NO^) is another alkaloid from the same source; and echicerin (Cg^H^gOj), echitein (C^.^Hy^O.^), and echitin (CgjHgjOg) are yet other substances. There are various species of Echites, which are used medicinally in S. America, the East Indies, and W. Africa. Echolalia. See Echo Speech. EchopathieS.— Nervous maladies in which the patient spasmodically and invohni- tarily repeats at once words and actions heard and seen by him; the name echokinesis is given to the repetition of actions. EchO-Sigrn.—A speech disturbance met with in epilepsy, consisting in the repetition of a word two, three, or more times at the end or in the middle of a sentence. Echo Speech. —The power of repeating, like a parrot, words spoken without under- standing the same; echolalia or echophrasia. See Aphasia {Clinical Features., Word-deafness); Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence, Katatonia). Eck'S Fistula.—An experimental means devised by Eck for excluding the liver from the circulation, by uniting the peripheral end of the divided portal vein with the inferior vena cava. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Urea- Formation).