169 EPISTAXIS or it may be entirely a submucous heemorrhage or htematoma. Amongst the indirect injuries fracture of the base of skull passing through the anterior or middle fossa may give rise to epistaxis. All diseases of the nose^ including nasal polypi, must be considered amongst the local causes. The separation of crusts which have formed upon the nasal mucous membrane may lead to erosion and ulceration from which epistaxis may occur. The ulceration produced by syphilis, lupus, leprosy, and tuberculosis seldom occa- sions epistaxis by a direct extension to the blood-vessels. Of all local conditions neoplasms are more particularly liable to give rise to very violent attacks of hfemorrhage. Especially the fibro- mata, fibro-sarcomata, the angeio- and myxo- sarcomata, and the carcinomata. The changes produced in the nasal mucosa by the presence of bacteria, as in nasal diph- theria, may be accompanied by considerable epistaxis. Epistaxis occurring without any apparent local cause about the yeai's of jmherty calls for special attention, partly on account of its period- icity and frequency, and partly on account of the significance and etiology that has been attached to it. Those attacked are usually in normal health, some are plethoric and some anremic. It has been described as hahitnal, as the epistaxis of jmherty, and as vicarious epistaxis. There is evidence to show that some relationship exists between the gener- ative function and epistaxis. Epistaxis un- doubtedljr may precede a menstrual flow, or accompany or follow one, or the menstrual flow may be entirely replaced by an epistaxis. On the other hand there is also evidence to show that other regions of the body are more fre- quently than the nose the seats of vicarious haemorrhage. It is as well, therefore, to hesi- tate before too readily assigning a vicarious character to epistaxis. For reasons stated in discussing the pathogenesis the term develop- mental epistaxis would, perhaps, more completely cover this group of cases. The constitutional conditions predisposing to epistaxis are blood diseases and those diseases giving rise to a luvmorrhagic diathesis, such as leuktemia, scurvy, purpura htemorrhagica, hfemo- philia. The infectious fevers, which may assume hfemorrhagic characters, at times are ushered in by an epistaxis; this is peculiarly so with typhoid. Conditions leading to venous obstruc- tion or increased arterial tension are important factors; in illustration of the former mention may be made of tumours of the neck, whooping- cough, mitral stenosis, hepatic cirrhosis; and as illustrating the latter, hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart and renal disease. Sy^jptomatology.—Premonitory symptoms at times are experienced, a feeling of pressure and fulness within the head, frontal headache, dizzi- ness, drowsiness, and tinnitus; these symptoms are met with in others besides those of plethoric habit. The bleeding from the nostril in the majority of cases is trivial and in drops of a dark colour. If the bleeding is sufficiently profuse as to flow in a continuous stream it is probably arterial, occasioned by the rupture or ulceration of a small artery. The blood at times, according to the position of the head and the profuseness of the bleeding, may pass backwards and over the septum, and escape from the other nostril, or it may pass into the throat and be coughed up, simidating an hcBmoptysis. The symptoms resulting from an epistaxis will be determined entirely by the amount of blood lost and the condition of the patient previous to the hemorrhage. After a pro- longed but gradual bleeding, antemia may ensue; if the haemorrhage is short and sudden but severe, syncope may occur, during which there is the possible danger of blood finding its way into the air-passages. The local signs of a recent epistaxis are a sodden condition in the neighbourhood of the bleeding point, and crusts that have formed in the clotting. Diagnosis.—It is impossible to lay too much stress iipon the importance of looking for the bleeding point. In this way only is it possible to ascertain the real nature and significance of an epistaxis. An anterior or a posterior rhinoscopy will generally enable one to decide whether the bleeding comes from either or both nostrils, or from the post-nasal space, and what steps should be taken for its arrest. By the blood passing backwards into the pharynx, or being swallowed, a true epistaxis may simulate haemoptysis or hsematemesis. On the other hand, blood from the stomach or air- passages, by the act of vomiting or coughing, may be forced into the posterior nares and suggest an epistaxis. It will often have to be decided by rhinoscopy whether the haemorrhage arises in the nose or the post-nasal space. Local TREATjrEXT.—There are times when an escape of blood from the nostrils is salutary, and the question then to be considered will be whether it is advisable to interfere. Having regard to the frequency of epistaxis the number of occasions surgical skill is called for to arrest it is comparatively small. In the majority of cases homely remedies are sufficient. Eailing these we have a long array of astringent drugs and hfemostatics to fall back upon. The solutions to be effectual must be concentrated, and carried directly to the bleeding point; during the hicmorrhage this is seldom practicable. More- over, there is the danger with concentrated