106 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN bodies, etc.). Probably somewhat similar changes occur in the metencephalon and mesencephalon. The form and divisions of the diencephalon, as described under the fifth week, are maintained ; the pineal body or epiphysis, a product of the roof-plate, is now more evident; there is also an expansion of the subthalamic regions, which probably are the continuations forward of the formatio reticularis. In the telencephalon, the lamina terminalis, to which reference has already been made and which probably re- presents the roof-plate of this part of the brain, becomes thickened and constitutes the anlage of the septum lucidum, the corpus callosiim, the fornix, and the anterior commissure. It is not till much later that a cavity forms in the septum lucidum, to be known as the fifth ventricle. The cerebral hemispheres are now growing rapidly and pi'oject forwards and upwards in front of the diencephalon; their communications with the third ventricle (fora- mina of Monro) do not enlarge, but their walls thicken, and therefore the connecting structures enlarge ; a commencement of the delimitation of the hemispheres into lobes is effected by the development of the fossa of Sylvius which marks off" a frontal lobe and a post-Sylvian lobe (future temporal and occipital lobes), each of which contains part of the lateral ventricle. About the sixth week the olfactory ganglion on each side unites with the bulbus olfactorius of the olfactory lobe of that side. With regard to the eye, it may be noted that in this or in the succeeding week (the seventh) the choroidal fissure disappears by a fusion of its lips. The ocular tunics also begin to form; thus mesodermic tissue surrounds the lens- vesicle and constitutes the tunica vasculosa lentis. In this tunic, vessels are developed which are associated with the hyaloid artery of the vitreous humour. The position of the eye changes : at first it was lateral and high up ; in the fifth week it descended somewhat; and, now, in the sixth week it moves round more to the front: but even at the end of the second month the axes of the two eyes are far from parallel. In the middle ear the malleus and incus and their relations with Meckel's cartilage can be recognised; the cartilage of the second branchial arch is also present with the seventh nerve close behind its posterior end, and with a ring of cartilage above it, representing the stapes. The internal ear shows a differentiation into semicircular canals, cochlea, endolymphatic duct, sacculus, and utricle. From six tubercles and a ridge lying posterior to them the external ear (pinna or concha) is taking form. One tubercle becomes the future tragus, another the antitragus, another the lobule, another the anti- helix, and the two remaining ones along with the ridge become the helix. The alimentary system, like the nervous, shows no marked new developments during this week; in fact, with the exception of the de- velopment of the rectum, anus, and perineum, and the rearrangement of the intestinal coils,, this part of the body of the embryo may be said to have taken on its permanent form. In the mouth the anlage of the submaxillar}' gland is now more evident than it was in the fifth week ; and traces of the milages of the parotid and sub- lingual glands may perhaps have appeared. The dental shelf is visible as a horizontal out- growth from the epithelial downgrowth which gives rise to the lip groove. In the third pair of pharyngeal pouches the epithelial part of the thymus gland is beginning to form. There is. as yet no trace of the tonsils. The ossophagus is relatively longer than before, and the stomach shows more distinctly its greater and lesser curvatures. The diiodenum is clearly marked oft' as the part of small intestine which passes from the pyloric end of the stomach towards the dorsal body-wall. Below this is the U-shaped loop already described with the indication of the ctecum. About this time the lower limb of the U so alters its position that it comes to lie above the upper limb, and thus the C£ecum, transverse colon, and descending colon come to occupy their adult relations to the small intestines. The descent of the csecura and the development of the ascending colon, however, have yet tO' take place. Five other primary coils of the small intestine, in addition to the duodenal one, can be recognised; all these five lie within the umbilical cord at present (Mall, Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., ix. 197, 1898). The ectodermal cloaca is now present, but of this more must be said in the next paragraph. Into the ectodermal cloaca open the urino- genital sinus and the bowel. The bowel, how- ever, which opens into the cloaca does not apparently constitute the permanent anus. The cloaca, it would seem, is closed again, and the perineum formed by the growth of two em- inences (Reichel's Analhocker) at the sides of it. In the present week it communicates with the exterior, and into it opens the urino-genital sinus. The Wolffian ducts in turn open into the urino - genital sinus. The two Miilleriaa ducts can be recognised at this age ; they lie in the genital cord along with the Wolffian ducts, and have apparently in part coalesced into one duct (Berry Hart, Trans. Edinb. Obst. Sac, xxvi., 264, 1901) ; in the upper part of their course they are separate. The kidneys and ureters are present; the latter have as yet no connection with the bladder. The Wolffian bodies may even now show signs of regression. Little need be said regarding the respiratory and circulatory systems in this week of em- bryonic life. The larynx is recognisable as the dilated part of the trachea which opens into the pharynx ; and the arytenoid ridges are better marked than in the preceding week. In the