438 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF cavity being therefore a virtual one. The cervix is nearly cylindrical in form (it is slightly fusiform), and projects into the upper end of the vagina; its cavity is fusiform. It communicates with the cavity of the body at the isthmus by means of the os uteri internum, and with the vaginal canal by the os uteri externum. It has sometimes been divided into two parts, a supra- vaginal and a vaginal (portio vaginalis); but as it does not project equally into the upper end of the vagina, it is more correct to regard it as consisting of three portions, a supra-vaginal, an intermediate, and an intra - vaginal portion. The last named is the unattached part of the cervix; the intermediate is attached to the bladder in front, but is free behind; while the supra-vaginal is attached to the vaginal roof behind and to the bladder in front. The os uteri internum is a circular opening; the os uteri externum, or os tincse, is a narrow, trans- FiG. 7.—Coronal section of a nulliparous(A)and of a multiparous (b) A, cavity of the cervix and arbor vitae ; C, cavity of tlie body ; striction between body and cervix, the os uteri internum : S, body. (After Tarnier.) versely situated orifice in the vaginal portion which divides this part of the cervix into two lips, anterior and posterior. It is noteworthy that the occurrence of labour shows that the uterus, which in the unimpregnated condition consists evidently of the two portions described above as body and cervix, really is made up of three parts, body, lower uterine segment, and cervix. Just before the opening up of the os uteri internum there can be recognised in the pregnant uterus the body or upper uterine seg- ment with thick, contracted walls, the distended lower uterine segment, and the cervical canal. By some the lower segment is regarded as belonging to the body, and by others as due to the opening up of the upper part of the cervical canal. The former is the more probable view. The relations of the uterus to the pelvic floor will be considered later (Fig. 7). Structure of the Uterus. — With the naked eye it can be recognised that there are three coats or tunics—the external, serous coat, or perimetrium; the middle muscular coat, or mesometrium ; and the internal mucous coat, or endometrium. The serous coat is formed by the general peritoneal lining of the pelvis. It may be noted that it covers the anterior surface of the uterus as low as the level of the os internum uteri, where it passes up on to the posterior surface of the bladder to form the utero-vesical pouch of peri- toneum. Posteriorly it covers the posterior wall of the uterus, and descends as the pouch of Doviglas behind the upper part of the vaginal roof as low as the level of the os externum uteri. From this point it ascends again on to the anterior rectal wall. Laterally the anterior and posterior layers of peritoneum meet at the borders of the uterus to form the broad liga- ments of the organ. At the fundus the peri- toneal coat passes directly from the anterior to the posterior surface. In the lower animals the musculature of the uterus is clearly divisible into two layers, an internal circular and an outer longitudinal, the former being a strongly developed stratum, and the latter a feebly marked one; but in the human uterus there is no such distinct arrange- ment. With the supervention of preg- nancy, however, a notable hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the uterus occurs, and it is then possible to recognise three layers; but even then the distinction between them is never so marked as in the uteri of the lower animals. There is an inner layer immediately beneath the mucous membrane in which the fibres are arranged chiefly in longitudinal bundles. This has by some been I'e- garded as a hypertrophied muscularis mucosae. The middle layer is much the thickest, and while it is largely composed of fibres running in a circular direction, it also contains not a few which pass longitudinally, and from the peritoneal surface towards the mucous. In this way a thick felt- work is formed in the meshes of which lie the large blood-vessels of the uterine wall. The external layer is made up of longitudinal bundles with some obliquely and circularly dis- posed ones interspersed. Fibres from it pass into the broad ligaments, and also into the utero-sacral bands which run backwards to the sacrum below the peritoneal lining of the pouch of Douglas, dividing that pouch into three com- partments, a central and a right and left lateral. The musculature of the cervix is largely con- tinuous with the middle layer of the body. The mucous membrane is a thick coat, and has a smooth surface in the body of the organ, while in the cervical canal it is thrown into ridges, a vertical one with lateral ones slanting upwards and outwards from it, and to this arrangement the fanciful name of the arbor vitiE has been given. With the help of the microscope it can be made out that the serous coat has the ordi- nary histological featiu-es of the peritoneum, viz. a basis of delicate fibrous and connective uterus: O, con- wall of