161 EPILEPSY with cod-liver oil or the hypophosphites and iron. It is doubtful whether all the bromide salts are equally efficacious. Bromide of potassium appears to be the most valuable; after it come those of sodium and ammonium. Bromide of strontium, bromide of nickel, and bromide of camphor have a decidedly less potent action than the alkaline bromides. A combination of bromide and opium has been suggested, but it has no special therapeutic advantage. ; In a few cases the bromides appear to exert no influence, hence it is necessary to rely Tipon other but less efficacious remedies. Perhaps the most valuable is borax, as recommended by Gowers. This may be given in doses of 10 to 20 grains thrice daily alone or in combination with bromide. Numerous other drugs have from time to time been tried, but none of them possess the specific action of the bromides. Such are belladonna, cannabis indica, the zinc salts, nitro-glycerine, salicylate of soda, anti- pyrin, sulplional, and a host of other remedies. The use of nitrate of silver, a drug largely used before the introduction of the bromides, has been almost entirely discarded. Errors of refraction are not uncommon amongst epileptics, but it cannot be said that the correction of astigmatism has ever cured epi- leptic fits. Such errors should be corrected when possible, but the medicinal and general hygienic treatment of the disease should be continued along the lines already laid down. A word, in conclusion, may be said upon the diet of epileptics. If an epileptic has to go about and do the work of the average healthy individual he reqviires the ordinaiy mixed diet of such persons. The vegetarian regime recom- mended by some has not been found to possess that minimising influence upon the number and severity of the seizures which its advocates pre- dicted. A salutary rule is to allow butcher- meat once daily and to interdict the use of alcohol, except upon emergencies.^ Epileptic Colonies. Historical and General Principles 161 Plan of a Colony .... 162 Means op Maintenance 162 Influence op Colony Life on the Disease ...... 16.3 Selection of Cases .... 16.3 General Conclusion .... 164 See aho Epilepsy. The method of dealing with epileptics in colonies does not date farther back than the first half of the present century; for it was only in 1848 that John Bost, a Protestant clergyman at La Force, near Bordeaux, founded his homes for the treatment of the feeble-minded, ' See observations on diet iu "Adolescent Insanity," vol. i. j5. 59. VOL. Ill idiots and epileptics. Since that time the value of the principle of epileptic colonies, the concep- tion of which would seem to be due to J. Bost, has taken extensive hold upon those whose care or duty it is to deal with numbers of epileptics. It is only necessary to refer to the large and prosperous colony at Bielefeld in Westphalia, founded and extended through the influence and energies of Pastor Bodelschwingh, and to numerous others in various parts of Germany, which have arisen during the course of the past half-century. To mention the names of a few : there are those at Potsdam, Dalldorf,—Berlin, Stettin, Hubertusburg, and many others in Germany ; those at Rolle, Zurich, and Berne in Switzerland ; that at Haarlem in Holland ; and the " asiles" John Bost and de la Teppe in France ; the Ohio institution, the Craig Colony in New York State, and many others .sjDringing up in other North American States; and in our own country, Maghull, near Liverpool, the Mcath Home at Godalming, the colony for epileptics at Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks, which is the projoerty of the National Society for the Employment of Epileptics, and the colony founded by the David Lewis Trust at Chelford in Cheshire. It is necessary at the outset to maintain that the general principle guiding the formation of colonies for epileptics should be the care, management, and treatment of the sane as contrasted with the insane epileptic, for whom, provision is already made in the lunatic asylums. But it is well known that, owing to the close relationship between epilepsy, idiocy, and imbecility in early life and with insanity (dementia) in the later years of an epileptic's existence, it is not always possible to draw this strict line of demarcation. There are, however, numerous epileptics, seen chiefly in the out- patient rooms of the hospitals and in the wards of the Poor Law infirmaries, who, if suitable opportunities were aftbrded them, would lie capable of carrying on a considerable amount of work towards their own maintenance. On the other hand, owing to deficient training in youth, or to inability to obtain regular employment on account of fits, or fi'om the fact that the epileptic is excluded from many sources of employment, such as building, engineering, railway work, and so on, the services of the epileptic artisan ai'e not sought after by the emjjloyer of labour. Hence not only amongst the working classes, but also amongst those in easier circumstances, the epileptic is found to be a burden to his relatives. Founded, therefore, upon such facts as these, quite apart from statistical proofs of their existence, attempts are being made by various institutions, charitable and other, to endeavour to do something to assist this sorely- afilicted class. The problem is in process of solution, as already shown by the enormous and rapid growth 11