EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 87 and the inter-brain (thalarnencephalon or dien- ceplialon) ; or rather, as Minot believes, the anlages of the cerebral hemispheres arise from the anterior end and dorsal side of the fore- brain, which, on account of the head bend which is present, grows downward and forward. The optic vesicles are by this time clearly stalked, and the otocyst is a closed pear-shaped vesicle. With regard to the primary head bend or flexure, to which reference has been made, it is to be noted that now it is so marked that no longer is the fore-brain at right angles to the hind-brain (by a flexure situated in the mid- brain), but it has become so sharply bent that its floor is almost parallel with the floor of the hind-brain. It must be remembered that the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain are not at this stage of development anything more than vesicles. At the junction of the hind-brain with the spinal cord is the medulla oblongata, and in it even at this date it can be seen that the central canal is wider in the dorsal than in the ventral portion; at this point, also, there is an indication of the second cerebral flexure or neck - bend which appears first as a projection (His' JVacken- hiicker). In front of this region is the anlage of the cerebellum, and behind it is the spinal cord. The heart, as seen in His' Embryo BB, is now an S-shaped tube, " the venoiis end is convex toward the head, the arterial end convex toward the tail " (Minot). From the arterial end spring the aortie which give off five branches (aortic arches) on each side of the neck ; these branches unite again on the dorsal side, and passing backward the resulting trunk joins that of the opposite side to form the single median dorsal aorta, which subdivides into the two umbilical or allantoic arteries. Each of the aortic arches helps with the surrounding tissue to make a visceral or branchial arch; and between the five arches are the four visceral, branchial, or gill clefts or grooves (for they are never really clefts in the human embryo). The anlages of the true auricular cavities of the heart have now appeared, and the two limbs of the ventricle are nearer together and form a distinct apex where they join. The heart area of the embryo is quite covered by amnion at the stage of de- velopment at present under consideration. The veins consist of the cardinals and jugulars, of the ducti Cuvieri formed l)y their union, the ninphalo-mesenteries and the umbilicals ; the three last named come into close relation with the anlage of the liver and also with the septum transversum, while the cardinals are anatomically associated with the developing Wolffian bodies (to which I shall immediately refer). The devL'lcipment of the septum transversum and of the diaphragm is a peculiaidy complex and obscure part of organogenesis ; but upon it the researches of Franklin P. Mall {Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull., xii. 158, 1901) and others have thrown much light. The septum transversum is, to begin with, a V-shaped V)ridge of meso- dermal tissue (irregular round cells, numerous vessels communicating with the veins of the heart) which connects the umbilical vesicle with the embryo at the juncture of the head with the amnion. It supports the omphalomesenteric and umbilical veins, and contains in it the Fio. 12.—Embryo at Uie f-nd of the tliiid week. Embryo BB. Enlarged about 3T times. (After His.) anlage of the liver as well as that of the dia- phragm, and all these structures are at a high level in the body of the embryo in the neigh- bourhood of the structures of the head ; indeed nearl}' the whole cadom at this stage of develop- ment lies in the head and neck region. The septum transversum serves to divide the cadum anterior to it or headward of it (the parietal cavity of His) from that which lies posterior (tailward) to it (the trunk cavity of His) : but laterally the two cavities communicate by passages, the parietal recesses, each of which divides later into a ventral and a dorsal part. Ultimately the jDarietal cavity becomes the peri- cardial sac, while the trunk cavity with the