340 FOURTH DISEASE plained of. The eyes are suffused ; there is general pea-like enlargement and tenderness of the superficial glands; the tongue is clean or slightly furred,—never thickly coated ; there is comparatively little sensation of illness, and even if severe the symptoms pass off in a few days, and recovery is complete in a fortniglit. The rash is followed by desquamation, which may be slight or extensive. A slight rash is usually attended by little desquamation, and what does occur disappears in a week or two. After a full eruption there may also be little peeling, but, on the other hand, it may be as free as in scarlet fever. There are no sequelae ; albuminuria is a rare and transient symptom. Fourth disease is most infectious at the commencement; the in- fection, never very great, does not endure beyond 14 or 21 days with efficient disinfection, even though slight desquamation be still in progress. No treatment, save rest in bed for a few days, is required. From the above description it will be seen that the distinction between German measles on the one hand, and mild scarlet fever on the other, is by no means easy. The rash is diffuse, not patchy, as in the former disease, the glandular enlargement is less, and desquamation is much more marked ; while, as against scarlet fever, we have the more generalised appearance of the rash at the onset, the comparative absence of pungent heat to the touch, the enlargement of the cervical and occipital glands, the mildness of the sore throat, the absence of the characteristic tongue, and the less frequent pulse. At a later period in scarlet fever albuminuria is common, while desquamation is more prolonged. In a subsequent communication Dr. Dukes also urged, as against his cases being scarlet fever, that in that disease we do not find a full rash without a high temperature and subsequently free des- quamation, whereas in fourth disease a copious rash may be unattended by fever and peeling. In addition to the clinical phenomena, the evidence on which Dr. Dukes relies is furnished by the occurrence of epidemics, chiefly in schools. He has observed concurrent epidemics of fourth disease and scarlet fever, in which some of the patients were attacked by both infections in succession. Moreover, nearly half those affected in one epidemic of fourth disease had already had rotheln previously. The insological position of fourth disease is, according to him, justified by its breeding true, and by its conferring pro- tection against a second attack, but not against scarlet fever or rotheln. Although Dukes was the first in this country to discriminate this member of the exanthemata, it, or something very like it, had already been recognised by Filatow of Moscow thirteen years earlier, under the name Rubeola Scarlatinosa. He describes it as resembling the mildest type of scarlet fever, and not, as a rule, followed by desquamation. It stands in the same relation to scarlet fever as rotheln does to measles. Filatow was led to identify I'ubeola scarlatinosa by observing epidemics among children who had already had, or subsequently became affected by, scarlet fever. Filatow offers no proof that in his cases rotheln had previously occurred. From Dresden Unruh has also reported small epidemics of fourth disease ; the description he gives tallies in all respects with that of Dukes. Most of his cases had already had scarlet fever and rotheln, and the disease, as he saw it, always bred true. Bokay, of Buda Pesth, is also a strong supporter of the existence, as a separate entity, of fourth dis- ease. Among others who took Dr. Dukes' side are Broadbent, Ashby, — who, however, puts the incu- bation at 7 to 9 days,—and Weaver, who reports cases among convalescent scarlet-fever patients. The objections raised to Dr. Dukes' hypothesis fall into two categories: (1) those which are con- cerned with a detailed criticism of his cases with the view of showing that they were either German measles or scarlet fever, and (2) those of a more general nature. It is impossible within the limits of a short article to go into the first series of objections, but it seems to the writer that very great weight must attach to the opinion of experienced independent observers like Filatow, Dukes, Ashby, Bokay and others, who actually saw the cases, and were satisfied that they were not examples either of scarlet fever or rotheln. One of the more general objections which has been raised is that Dukes places too much faith on one attack of a fever protecting from a second, and that in so far his inferences require qualification. Again, it is urged that if a disease so closely resembling mild scarlet fever existed it would often be notified as scarlet fever, and cause epidemics in fever hospitals, while in their turn the patients would become infected with genuine scarlet fever. As a matter of fact. Dukes and Weaver believe that many so-called relapses of scarlet fever are instances of successive infections with the two diseases. A further series of objections concern the symptoms mentioned above as those which Dukes lays down as distinguishing be- tween scarlet fever and fourth disease. It is contended that many mild cases of the former do not display the symptoms in question. On the whole, the trend of opinion among superin- tendents of fever hospitals seems to be that a fourth disease does not exist. At present, there- fore, the question is still sub judice. Probably the solution of the matter will only be arrived at from a study of the epidemiology of so-called fourth disease, since its differentiation from mild scarlet fever by its symptoms alone appears im- possible. If this be so, it is to physicians in private practice, and particularly to those in charge of schools and institutions, who have the bestopportunitiesof observing incubation periods, previous protection, and duration of infectivity, that we must look to settle the question.