170 EPISTAXIS solutions of permanently injuring other parts 'of the nasal mucous membrane. After the haemorrhage has ceased, however, htemostatics are of service in sealing off a bleeding point and preventing a recurrence. When the bleeding is due to an erosion or rupture of a small vessel on the septum a plug of cotton-wool inserted into the nostril together with digital pressure exercised from without, "will generally bring about an arrest of the haemorrhage. The lateral posture, with the head inclined slightly forward and the bleeding nostril uppermost, is the best. In this position blood flows less readily into the pharynx, and coagulation is more speedily obtained. The healing process can subsequently be accelerated by the application to the bleeding point of chromic acid fused on the end of a probe in consequence of which a reactive inflammation and subsequent cicatrisation is induced. A similar result may be obtained by gently strok- ing the part with the galvano-cauteiy, using a flat blade which should be kept at only a dull red heat. When the haemorrhage is more severe and the bleeding point farther back, and, perhaps, result- ing from a surgical operation, the nostril can be packed. To do this one seldom has to resort to the use of any of the many surgical appliances ingeniously designed for the purpose. Packing- is readily done with a strip of gauze from half an inch to an inch in width, impregnated with an antiseptic, and wrung out in an antiseptic solution. With the help of a nasal speculum the end of a strip is carried on a pair of nasal forceps as far back into the nostril as possible, the strip is then gradually and neatly packed away. The nostril is thus plugged from behind forwards. The strip should be removed after twenty-four hours, and the nostril, if necessary, repacked. In the case of haemorrhage persisting after a surgical operation, it is as well to syringe the nostril with cold water, and ascertain by inspec- tion whether the bleeding is kept up by any tag of tissue not completely severed. General Treatment.—In deciding upon the measiires to be adopted to arrest an epistaxis it is important to bear in mind that the haemor- rhage is frequently but a local manifestation of a constitutional condition calling for treat- ment. The employment of appropriate general therapeutic means then becomes of the first importance. EpisympuS.—A teratological type in which there is rotation outwards of the lower limbs and union of them by skin or membrane ; the earliest stage in the production of sympodia. Vide Antenatal Pathology (vol. ii. p. 573). Epithelioma,. See Tumours {Epithelial Group). See also Bone, Diseases of {Tumours); Cicatrices {Malignant Diseases of) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Tumours); Larynx, Malignant Disease of {Pathology); Mouth, Diseases op {Diseases of Lips, Epithelioma; Diseases of Gums, Epithelioma); Nose, Diseases OF Nasal Orifices and Septum {Malignant Growths of Nasal Fossoi); Penis, Surgical Affections op {Neiv Growths, Malignant); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Epithelioma of Scrotum); Tongue {Tumours, Carcinoma, Epithelioma); Tumours of the Skin {Epitheli- oma adeiioides cysticum); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of ; Vulva, Diseases of {Tumours, Carcinoma). Epithelium. See Physiology, Tissues {Epithelium); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Epidermis); Skin, Pigmentary Affections {Epithelial Pigmentation). Epithymisl.—A natural desire, longing, or craving (Gr. eTrt^u/xeo), I set my heart upon). EpitOXOid. — " Any toxoid which has less affinity for an antitoxin than the toxin has " {Newman Dorland). Epitrichium.—The outer layer of the ectoderm in embryonic and early foetal life ; its outer cells are dome-shaped; it is supposed to persist in cases of foetal ichthyosis or hyper- keratosis congenita. See Embryology (Fifth Week). EpitrOChlea..—The inner condyle of the humerus. Epitympanum. — The attic of the internal ear. Epityphlitis. — Appendicitis. See Ap- pendix Vermiformis {Aj}pendicitis). Epizoa.—External animal parasites, as contrasted with Epiphytes, or external vegetable parasites. See Pediculosis ; Scabies, etc. Epizootic.—A term applied to diseases among animals which behave as epidemics do in the human subject. Eponychium.—The thickened epitri- chium at the end of a digit from which the nail is afterwards developed. EpOOphoron.—The organ of Rosen- miiller or parovarium. See Broad Ligament {Anatomy); Generation, Female Organs of {Organ of Rosenmuller). Epsom Salts.—Sulphate of Magnesium. Constipation ; Magnesium; Pharmacology; etc.