243 F^CES In inflammatory affections of the colon nmcus may be very abundant in the stools, ffecal matter being very scanty. Abundant mucus is specially characteristic of membranous or mucous colitis. Microscopical and Bacteriological Exami- nation.— There is nothing special in the methods reijuired for the microscopical and bacteriological examination of the fa3ces. Me- conium consists of intestinal mucus, epithelial cells, vernix caseosa, bile, hairs, fat-globules and cholesterin. Stains on cloth may be recognised by the peculiar odour, and by the precipitation of mucin on adding acetic acid to a watery extract. In the milk-fceces of a suckling may be seen epithelial cells, round cells, fat-globules and crystals, protein sub- stance, mucin, bacteria in great numbers, and occasionally yeast fungi. Fat is normally very abundant in the stools of the infant. The proteids of breast milk are almost entirely al)sorbcd, but when the infant is fed on cow's milk the stools usually contain a considerable quantity of undigested casein. Particles of casein in the stools may be distinguished by tlie microscope from masses of fat. Starch granules may be recognised if the food contains starch. On an ordinary mixed diet the stools contain distinctly recognisable portions of vegetable tissue, vegetable cells and woody fibres, starch cells, hairs, striped muscular fibre, elastic and areolar tissue, fat chiefly in the form of crystals, cells and mucus derived from the intestinal tract, crystals of diflerent kinds, innumerable micro-organisms, and debris of vaiious origin. The ova of intestinal parasites may have to be carefully searched for, but may be present in enormous numbers. The continued presence of ova in the freces after the discharge of a worm indicates the presence in the bowel of other specimens. Micro-orffcmisi/is. — At birth the entire ali- mentary tract is sterile, but within a few hours organisms are present in the discharges. As long as the infant is fed at the breast only two varieties of organisms are constantly pi'esent in the intestine. Of these the bacteriimi lactis aeroijenes lives in the upper part of the small intestine, and appears only exceptionally in the freces, while the other, the hacterium coli coni- viune, occurs in immense numbers in the colon and in the fseces. In the adult the fjeces possess a very varied flora even in health. It has been supposed by some that tlie acid gasti'ic juice acts as an antiseptic barrier to the passage of micro- organisms, but it appears that any of the numerous organisms which occur in the mouth or in the sordes of the teeth may get into the intestine. Several observers agree that many of the non-pathogenic bacilli and micrococci are stained of a blue colour by an iodo-potassic iodide solution, a fact of some importance in distinguishing them from pathogenic organisms which they may resemble. The hacterium coli commune is of jjarticular interest because, although not ordinarily patho- genic, it may under certain conditions become so. It closely resembles the bacillus typlioms in many of its characters, but may be distinguished by its growth upon potatoes, on which it pro- duces a brown pellicle, while the typhoid bacillus forms a translucent film. A closely allied organism belonging to the coli group is the bacillus enteritidis (Gaertner)—possibly not a single species—to which have beei^i attri- buted several outbreaks of diarrhoea and meat poisoning. In typhoid fever the bacillus typhosus cannot usually be found in the stools before the ninth or tenth day of the fever. (The urine may also be examined for this bacillus.) The bacillus tuberculosis may be found in the faeces, but its presence is of no value for the diagnosis of intestinal tubercle, as it is so frequently swallowed. The comma bacillus can frequently be readily found by the direct examination of choleraic stools. The stools should be examined as soon as possible. Some of the choleraic material is spread on several slides, fixed by heat, and stained with carbol-fuchsin. The bacilli are frequently found grouped in little masses, in which the individuals all lie in the same direc- tion, like "a shoal of fish." Cultivations should also be made (in alkaline bouillon). Amoebce are very numerous in the fteces in cases of tropical dysentery (amoebic dysentery). The stool should be examined as soon as passed, preferably on the hot stage ; or films may be made, fixed with corrosive sublimate, and stained; or portions of the discharge may be fixed and hardened witii corrosive sublimate, and cut into sections by the paraffin method. The Chemical Examination.—The chemical examination of the fpcces is inidertaken chiefly in connection with experiments on metabolism to ascertain tlie amount of nitrogen and of fat excreted. Nitrogen is taken as the index of proteid katabolism. It is eliminated chiefly by the kidney as urea and uric acid. The total amount of nitrogen contained in the fteces is estimated and added to that eliminated by the urine. Fat is usually estimated by counting as fat whatever can be extracted from the fteces by ether. The constitution of the fteces is highly com- plex and variable, and tables of quantitative composition are of but little value. Among important substances occurring in the faces may be mentioned :— (a) Albuminoids (collagen, chondrin, keratin, etc.). Normally tiie stools give no proteid reaction, but albimiins may be present in con- siderable quantity in some forms of diarrhaa,