EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF 228 bandage or the strapping of the Uds together at night is indicated until treatment for the primary cause succeeds. When the orbicularis does not recover from the paralysis the lago- phthalmos may be lessened, if an operation for ectropion of the lower lid has to be performed, but can never be cured, and the eye will always have to be protected by means of glasses in the daytime, and by the closure of the lids at night. When the lids cannot be made to meet over a prominent or enlarged eye, except when the palpebral fissure is shortened by bringing the lids together at the outer canthus, then the operation of a tarsoraphy should be performed; if this does not suffice, the margins of the lids should be sewn together throughout their whole length except for a narrow chink in the centre. Tarsoraphy.—Previous to anfesthetising the patient or to injecting cocaine subcutaneously near the outer canthus the lids are pinched together at the external canthus, to ascertain the extent to which they must be united; this point is marked on the skin. If it is likely that the proptosis, which is usually due to Graves' disease, will subside, a thin slice is taken away from the margin of both lids up to, but not including, the angle of the outer canthus, which will allow of the fissure being reopened sub- sequently. If the condition is not likely to im- prove, then a thicker piece of tissue, including the canthus, is removed with a Beer's knife. The raw surfaces on the lids are united with sutures, and the remaining portion of the lids is brought together with strapping until luiion is complete. Growths on the Lids Benign. — Xanthelasma. — Patches of xan- thelasma generally occur on the lids below the upper and inner angle of the orbit. Though not infrequently they are associated with bilious headaches, no treatment but excision will effect their removal. Excision of the growth, at the patient's wish, should only be carried out when its removal will not produce ectropion of the punctum, which Avould occur if a large piece of the skin had to be taken away. MoUuscmn contagiosum.—When these tumours are not very numerous they can be removed by expression, but if they are scattered over the whole of the body, only the large ones can be treated in this manner, sulphur ointment being rubbed into the remainder, or sulphur baths are prescribed. An anesthetic is given when the tumours to be removed are numerous or in- flamed, and then, with a pair of Graddy's forceps, a fold of the skin containing the tumour is gripped between the forcep blades and the contents are squeezed out. Before doing this the skin over the apex of the growth may be incised if the tumour is very large or is inflamed and suppurating; in the latter case it may be necessary to scrape out the growth with a sharp spoon. The wounds in the skin are dressed with boric acid powder and shreds of absorbent cotton-wool. Milium and Cysts. — Milia, which appear frequently in the skin of the face below the lids, can be removed by expressing their contents through an opening made into their cavity with the point of a sharp needle. The clear cysts which occur on the lid border by the occlusion of the glands of Moll (Fuchs) are opened freely by transfixion with the point of a Graefe's knife. Powdered cocaine is then dusted into their interior before the lining membrane is removed, wholly or in part, by fine forceps and scissors. NcBvus. — Nfevoid growths in the lids may involve the skin, the subcutaneous tissues, or the palpebral conjunctiva, and then extend deeply into the orbit. The patients are usually brought when quite young, either for the relief of the disfigurement or because the tumour is growing. The treatment consists in destroying the vascular tissue with the galvano-cautery, or by electrolysis {see " Capillaries " and " Elec- trolysis "). When the skin only is involved its surface is burned by touching it in many places with a fine, red-hot cautery point. This is repeated at intervals until the skin has lost the nsevoid colour. When both the skin and deeper structures are involved, the cautery point is passed through the skin into the tissue beneath, where it is made to burn a small cavity. This is repeated at several points and usually on several occasions. When the deep tissues only are in- volved, two or more platinum needles connected with the pole of a constant current battery are plunged deeply into the affected part, and the current is slowly applied until gas bubbles begin to appear in the wounds. After half a minute the current is reversed. At the first sitting it is not well to make more than two or three punctures until the effect produced by the treatment has been watched. In this way the blood is coagulated in the vessels, and the tissue shrinks without producing any marked scarring of the skin. The wounds are kept aseptic by careful attention to the dressings. An anaesthetic is required at each of the sittings, which may have to be repeated several times in the case of large growths. If the conjunctiva alone is in- volved, cocaine will suffice as an aniesthetic when the growth is destroyed by the galvano-cautery. Moles.—Black moles, or those which are only pigmented, should be excised, more especially if they occur on or near the margin of the lid. Warts and horny growths on the lids should be removed after a few drops of cocaine solution have been injected into the subcutaneous tissue beneath them, or if seated on the lid margin, after powdered cocaine has been dusted over them. The wound in the skin is closed by a suture, and covered by a dry dressing.