GOUT 508 strong is a consoimne or essence. Tliese may be pi'epared from beef, veal, or mutton, and sometimes pork or ham. (6) A similar decoction can be made from the various forms of fowl, game, and fish. (c) A decoction of vegetables, including herbs, roots, grains, and farinaceous substances. All of these soups may have added to them well-known dried Italian pastes, e.g. vermicelli or macaroni, and a consomme of meat or pork or game may be thickened with additions of a meat, fowl, or game puree respectively. In the same way the weaker broths furnish a basis for vegetable purees. The following highly nitrogenous soups ai'e not as a rule suitable articles of diet for the gouty :—Turtle, mock turtle, hare, kidney, ox- tail, mullagatawny. If they are indulged in, the rest of the food and drink consumed at the same meal must be moi-e carefully limited. Cock - a - leekie, giblet, and hotch - potch are almost stews, and should be considered as a meat course. In not a few cases all of these highly nitrogenous soups are contra- indicated. The great fault to be found with soups usually served is that they are heavy, and contain too many ingredients. The average soup is made up with as many good things as possible, some to make it more nourishing, others to make it more palatable. This is all very well for the healthy, but where, as in gout, the digestive functions in the tissues and alimentary canal are readily disturi;ed, simple soups are required. The soups without thickening are therefore the most suitable. The thickenings in common use are purees of meat or fowl, flour, tapioca, yolks of eggs, etc. A good rule in making soup is always to make it the day before it is required, as it has then time to cool, and the fat having risen to the surface can be easily and thoroughly re- moved. Soup should never be allowed to cool in the saucepan in which it has been made, but should always be poured into a basin, as other- wise the temptation to reheat without removing the fat is too great for most cooks. Roast l)eef and mutton bones boiled with vegetables, and the fat carefully removed, make a good stock from which soup can be made for the gouty. Excellent soup can also be made from the water in which meat or fish has been boiled. The various vegetable purees—spinach, arti- choke, tomato, carrots, green peas, etc. — are excellent for this class of patient. They are sufficiently sustaining to prevent a feeling of hunger, and if well digested give a fair amount of nourishment. In the case of soups made from the piilses, their high nutritive value should influence the rest of the meal, and in some cases they are better avoided. A very good vegetarian stock can be made by extract- ing the " goodness " and flavouring from vege- tables, the chief ones being onion, celery, caiTot, and turnips. To do this take these vegetables and cut them into small pieces, place in a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover them, and let them boil gently for several hours. The liquor when strained off is " stock," and can be flavoured with a small cpiantity of savoury herbs, pepper, salt, and ketchup, and can be coloured a nice brown with a few drops of Parisian essence. A more detailed account of the methods of preparing the invalid soups (teas and essences) will be found under the heading " Invalid Feeding." Meats.—Made-up meats are not suitable for the gouty, owing to the greater toughness of fibres induced by the second cooking, and also because of the admixture of rich sauces of various kinds which are usually added for palatability. Meats should be tender and simply prepared. The best ways of preparing are in order—broil- ing, steaming, roasting, boiling, baking, stewing, and frying. The last mentioned should be avoided, especially in the case of beef and mutton. Although lamb and veal possess less extractive value than other meats, and are on that ground commendable, yet the gelatinous nature of the fibres makes them more difficult of mastication, and therefore less digestive. If allowed, this danger must be pointed out with the view of obA'iating it. Tripe, sweetbreads, kidney, and liver may all be allowed for occas- ional use, provided the very special cleaning and careful cooking necessary are given effect to. Salted meats are rendered more indigestible in the preparation, and should therefore be avoided. Bacon and ham are more digestible than pork. With regard to game, white flesh is more suit- able than brown, and water-birds are more fatty than otiicr game. Fislt..—Fish are well calculated to form a large proportion of the dietary of the gouty. They contain on an average one-third less nitrogen than an equivalent amount of ordinary meat, and usually contain little or no fat. Fat fishes (salmon, mackerel, eels, pilchards, red mullets) are equal in nitrogenous value to an equal amount of moderate fat beef. There is a A'cry large proportion of water in the flesh of fish. When ordering, it is well to suggest those known to be in season and plentiful, as they will probably be in the best condition. As has been already mentioned, many nutritious soups can be made from them. Whiting, smelt, and sole are the most delicate atid cas}' of digestion. Haddock, flounder, grey nudlet, and plaice, are also good ; the haddock has more flavour, but a coarser grain than the whiting. Mullet and halibut have firmer fibre, and are better cooked in large pieces. The fatty fish referred to are vei-y tasty, but are more prone to derange digestion. In the salmon