FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE 338 die from foot and mouth disease without com- plications : a septicaemia or a pytemia may resvilt from secondary infection. Lesions have been noticed, however, in the liver, spleen, and kidneys, changes perhaps induced by the poison of the fever. Ulcerations have been found in the larynx and pharynx, fatty degeneration of the myocai'dium and pneumonia. In young animals gastritis and enteritis are not uncommon. Treatment.—Treatment is simple and resolves itself into (a) hygienic, {b) dietetic, (c) local. The disease, being highly contagious, should be treated as such. The affected should be isolated, and a cordon drawn around the isolation station, and no living thing be allowed to cross the barrier save after rigid disinfection. All litter, refuse, dressings, etc. that have been in contact should be burned, and special suits shoidd be provided for attendants that can be soaked when necessary with a disinfecting solution. The walls and floor of the house in which the diseased have been confined should be flushed down ; if necessary scraped, and then washed with solution that will destroy the microbe. Under somewhat similar conditions a one per cent solution of sulphuric acid in water has answered well; crude carbolic acid, sulphate of copper, chloride of lime are useful and cheap. As to the diet, the animals will require cooked nutritious food, soft and sloppy, which in swallowing will produce as little discomfort as possible. Hard food will lacerate the mucous membrane, retard the heal- ing of wounds in the mouth, and may aggravate gastro-intestinal lesions. Local treatment con- sists in the application of mild astringents and disinfectants to the mouth and to the feet. Mouth lesions are best dressed with borax and glycerine applied by brush; a dilute solution of chloride of zinc in water may be used for applica- tion to the feet. If many animals are affected, such as a flock of sheep or a herd of swine, these may be driven through a shallow trough, sunk a few inches into the ground, and containing in it an antiseptic solution. All that is required is that an area, about four yards long by three yards wide, be sunk about six inches below the general level of a paved yard. If the depression be made water-tight by cement, a shallow bath of antiseptic fluid is provided through which the diseased animals may be gently driven. As to the flesh of foot and mouth patients it is innocuous and marketable, save when profound changes have occurred due to fever. The heads of cattle should be condemned and the feet of all. If the heads of sheep and pigs show lesions, they also should be destroyed. Hides and fleeces should be disinfected : they have undoubtedly in many outbreaks been the vehicles by which the disease has spread. Footling'. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Podalic Lies). Forclinen.—A perforation or opening in a bone, a viscus, or a membrane. See Embryo- logy [Foramina of Monro, etc.); Heart, Con- genital Malformations of {Patent Foramen Ovale); Hydrocephalus {Foramina of Ma- gendie); etc. Forceps. See Labour, Operations {For- ceps, Craniotomy, Embryotomy); Teeth {Tooth Extraction). Forcipressure.—The arrest of hsemor- rhage by the (prolonged) pressure of spring forceps. Fordyce's Disease.—Milium of the prolabium or central prominent part of the lip (Hutchinson). Forearm. See Amputations ; Arteries, Ligature of {Forearm). Foregut. See Embryology {Embryo oj Third Week, etc.). Foreign Bodies. See Aneurysm {Treat- ment, hitroductioyi of foreign bodies into sac) ; Appendix Vbrmiformis, Diseases {Appendicitis, Etiology); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Foreign Bodies); Ear, External, Diseases of {Foreign Bodies)] Eyeball, Injuries of {Foreign Bodies); Hernia {Structure, Contents) ; In- testines, Surgical Affections {Blocking of Lumen in Obstruction); Larynx {Foreign Bodies); Nose {Foreign Bodies); CEsophagus, Injuries and Diseases {Foreign Bodies); Pharynx, Ex- amination OP {ForeignBodies); Rectum, Diseases of {Concretions); Vagina, Diseases of {Foreign Bodies). Foremilk. See Colostrum. Forest Climate. See Lung, Tuber- culosis {Treatment, Climate). ForewaterS. — The li(|uor amnii which in labour lies in advance of the presenting part of the child, and is expelled when the membranes rupture. See Labour, Physiology of. Formaldehyde.—A non-official pre- paration (a gas), commonly called formalin when in aqueous solution (40 per cent), and having the formula CH^O (formic aldehyde); formalin is a powerful disinfectant and antiseptic, and is much used (weak solution) for hardening micro- scopical specimens, and (in a stronger solution) for preserving naked-eye specimens; it has been used, but not widely, in surgery and medicine. See Disinfection {Formaldehyde); Food {Pre- servatives) ; Lungs, Tuberculosis {Treatment, Sj)ecific Measures); Mammary Gland, Diseases {Carcinoma, Palliative Treatment, Formalin) ; Milk {Adulte7ution, Examination, Detection of Formaldehyde). Formalin. See Formaldehyde. FormatOl. — A proprietary preparation, containing formaldehyde, and said to act as a disinfectant.