FRACTURES 356 ball field. The detached fragment is dragged downwards and either forwards or backwards by the flexor muscles which are attached to it, and by the pronator radii teres. There is much loss of function, passive movement is restricted, and the detached piece of bone can be moved independently. The accident may be associated with dislocation of the elbow : the ulnar nerve may be injured either by direct pressure of the condyle, or by the formation of callus ; or " the carrying angle" of the arm at the elbow may be lost as the result of adduction of the fore- arm. The treatment consists in semi-flexion of the elbow, wrist, and fingers to relax the flexor muscles; the epicondyle is then to be replaced as far as may be possible, being kept in position by a pad and sti'apping, and an anterior angular splint of plaster of Paris or metal is applied to the arm and forearm. The hand and wrist are alone slung. Passive movement should be begun on the seventh to the tenth day, but it must be very gentle; the splints may be dispensed with upon the fourteenth day, when they are to b3 re- placed by a sling. The detached piece of bone must be resected if the elbow be dislocated and the epicondyle prevents reduction ; whilst the existence of nerve symptoms would lead the surgeon to expose the ulna at the seat of injury. The Radius and Ulna.—Both bones of the forearm may be broken by direct violence when the fracture is at the same level in the two bones; by indirect violence, when the radius is usually broken at a higher level than the ulna ; or by machinery accidents, when the bones are often broken at several different places after the arm has been drawn i-ound a revolving wheel. Greenstick fractures of both bones are often seen in children who have fallen upon their hands. Except in greenstick fractures there is usually no difficulty in recognising the nature of the injury, for the pain, deformity, loss of power and crepitus, are sufficiently characteristic. The prognosis is good, but the surgeon must bear in mind that in no other fracture is gangrene so common and so insidious, that impairment of supination and pronation freqiiently occurs, and that delayed union which may end in non-union may follow any imperfect fixation of the limb. The impairment of movement is due to several causes. It is sometimes caused by a rotatory displacement of the upper part of the radius, when the bone is broken above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, for the upper fragment is then supinated by the biceps, whilst the lower part of the bone is maintained in a semi-prone position. The power of full supination is lost if the bone heals in this position. In oblique fractures there is a good deal of overriding of the ends of the bone, and there is often some angular displacement. Crossed vmion of the broken ends of the bones may therefore easily occur, that is to say, the end of the radius may become adherent to the end of the ulna and vice versa, or the interosseous space at the seat of fracture may be filled with callus, and the use- fulness of the limb is much lessened. The treatment consists in carefully reducing the fractures by extension and counter-extension of the arm, care being taken that the interosseous space is maintained at its greatest width, i.e. in full supination when the frac- ture is in the upper third of the bones, and midway between supination and pronation when the bones are broken at any point in the lower two-thirds of the arm. When the bones are broken in the upper third the arm is put up in full supination by means of a plaster case. The plaster case is made by taking a pattern in paper (see Fig. 12) from the sound side, in such a way that the splint will extend from the armpit, along the back of the arm, over the elbow bent at a right angle to the finger-tips. The pattern is laid upon a piece of ordinary house flannel of two thicknesses, over which a piece of lint is placed. The house flannel and lint are cut to the pattern, the inner lining of lint being sufficiently large to allow of its being wrapped over the edges of the flannel. The flannel is saturated with plaster of Paris paste, made by mixing one pound of freshly-burnt plaster of Paris with one pint of water, the excess of plaster being wrung owt of the flannel. The lining of lint is then put in, and the case is bandaged to the arm, which must be held firmly until the plaster has set, that is to say, until the case gives a ringing metallic sound upon being struck. The arm is suspended by a sling reaching from the hand to the elbow. When the bones are broken in the lower two- thii'ds the same care must be taken to set them accurately, or if the fracture be greenstick, the bones must be straightened forcibly, but instead of the plaster case, two well-padded, straight wooden splints must be applied. The arm is held midway between pronation and supination, so that the thumb looks uppermost, for in this position the radius and ulna lie parallel to each ;a. 12.—Diagram of a pat- tern for a plaster of Paris case for the back of the left arm. The piece AB is cut away for the axilla. The indentations at CD are to allow the elbow to be bent at a right angle.