494 GOUT quantities of uric acid ; and a third has had an attack of acute gout in the heel, and in his youth was afi'ected with erythema nodosum. When considering the subject of uric acid excre- tion in infancy I may draw attention to the statement usually made in most works on pediatrics as to children passing relatively more uric acid than adults. So far I have not been able to trace this to any definite series of observa- tions, and lately I made an investigation on the excretion in a child of 20 months, and the results (as yet unpublished) indicate that the proportion of uric acid to urea in the infant is not essentially diiferent from that in tlie adult. The point is one that merits further investigation. Transient albuminuria is met with in gout, especially during the acute attacks, and the amount and frequency of its occurrence may be regarded as evidence of the degree of renal weakness. Similarly transient glycosuria occurs, and may be regarded as similar evidence of hepatic (and possibly also muscular) insuffi- ciency. If pronounced, it may merge into true diabetes. Oxaluria is a less frequent occurrence. Phos- phaturia is by no means rare, and an apparent excess of phosphates occasionally alternates with the passage of large amounts of free uric acid. But it should be carefully noted that the occurrence of oxaluria or phosphaturia often depends entirely on the state of acidity of the urine. If the acidity of the urine is low (sodium phosphate present in small amount) there is a greater tendency to the deposit of the oxalic acid normally present in the urine, and there is also a preponderance of the neutral, not readily soluble, and basic, easily soluble, earthy phos- phates over the acid salts. We are not yet in a position to state authoritatively that phos- phaturia is to be regarded as an indication of abnormal disturbance in the phosphorus meta- bolism in the organism. ■ Ear The external ears, and the parts around, are a favourite site for the development of gouty eczema, and the auricle is prone to the deposit of tophi. Beyond these two facts there are few definitely determined as conclusive of the re- lationship between gout and ear diseases, but there are numerous isolated references bearing on the point. Gout is said to exercise con- siderable influence in the development of exos- tosis in the external auditory canal (Pritchard). Hang has described a case where the ear was affected by prodromal pains, with hypersemia and swelling of the auricle for several days, followed on the third or fourth day by an attack of articular gout. Mirk has recorded chalky deposits in the tympanic membrane, and he is of opinion that some cases with subjective noises are due to gouty deposits in the labyrinth. Baum also testifies to the effect of gout as a cause of ear diseases, especially in producing earache at night and tinnitus aurium without deafness. In the absence of more fully detailed clinical and post-mortem records of the condi- tion of the middle and internal ear, we cannot speak authoritatively on the influence of gout on the structures of the middle and internal ear. Eye There is no mistaking the important part played by gout in eye affections, although only in a few cases have definite deposits of urate of soda been recorded in the conjunctiva (Garrod) or elsewhere. Conjunctivitis, episcleritis, sclei'O- titis, iritis, and irido-cyclitis are the most com- mon manifestations, and the worst feature in these conditions is their great liability to recur. In the gouty form of iritis, hfemorrhage into the anterior chamber is not infrequent (Mait- land Ramsay). Gouty subjects are more prone than others to suffer from glaucoma, and Jona- than Hutchinson has recorded cases of hajmor- rhagic retinitis and optic neuritis which he regarded as of gouty origin. Apart from these obvious disorders, pain in the eye may be a prominent symptom. This takes the form of a sudden acute pain, sometimes described as linear in nature; in other cases there may be a dull ache with slight tenderness or hot and itchy feelings in the eyeball. In these latter cases the ocular tension should be carefully investi- gated. The eyelids are also prone to be the site of a fugitive oedema. Cutaneous System French writers in particular lay great stress on the special liability of gouty individuals to skin affections, the arthritides, as they call them, but in our own literatui'e we find much less belief in the importance of this relationship. Its great importance is undoubted. It would be strange indeed if this extensive vascular con- nective tissue covering did not react strongly in many ways to the influence of gout. Every experienced family practitioner knows that this is so. He may have seen at one time a severe attack of abdominal pain disappear with the onset of an eczema, or the development of a troublesome and persistent eczema in a limb already the seat of acute or subacute articular gout; or a gouty family of three, one of whom suffered from headache with lithfemia, a second was troubled with supra-orbital neu- ralgia and eczema, and a third with erythema and nail disturbances. These and the like con- vince him, from his own experience, that there is a profound relationship between skin affec- tions and gout. Again, he has known of a lichen developing, and persisting in spite of all kinds of appropriate local treatment for years, possibly undergoing, slight modification coin- cidently with the development of some articular