GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 433 imaginary surface touching all points of the circumference of the inlet. It is thus possible to draw a large number of such planes in tlie pelvis, and the form of each is represented by the relative length of the various diameters thereof. The plane of the inlet has an inclina- tion of 60", that of tlic outlet is nearly horizontal. It is noteworthy that the plane with the smallest diameter, that between the ischial spines, is not at the outlet but just above it; it is that between Fic. 2.—Male pelvis seen from the Iront. the apes of the sacrum and the lower Ijorder of the symphysis ; its antero-postei'ior diameter also does not vary, for the sacrum cannot be pressed backwards as can the coccyx. The axes of the pelvis are lines drawn perpendicularly to the centre of the planes, and there are in conse- quence as many axes as there are planes. The axis of the inlet is directed upwards and forwards, and corresponds with a line passing through the umbilicus and the lower end of the coccyx. The Fid. 3.—F'einale jielvis seen from the front. axes of the outlet is directed downwards and slightly backwards. If the axes of the brim, outlet, and cavity of the pelvis be joined together, the result will be a curved line, and this is called the central line, the guiding line, or the line of direction of the pelvis; it indicates the curve which the fatal head follows in its descent through the pelvic canal in labour (Fig. 1). Pelvic Differences due to Se.r, Ae/e, and Race.— The sexual differences in the osseous pelvis are early impressed upon it, as Fehling pointed out some years ago, and as Arthin- Thumson lias VOL. Ill recently shown. According to the latter { Journ. of Anat. ami Physiol, xxxiii. 3.59, 1899) the essen- tial sexual differences are as well defined during foetal life as they are in the adult. These are briefly as follow :—In the female the walls are thinner and their bony prominences are less marked ; the vertical dimensions are less, the transverse dimensions are greater, and so is the antero-posterior diameter in the cavity ; the acetabular cavities are farther apart, and the false pelvis is wider, while the true pelvis is more rounded ; the pelvic inclination is greater ; the promontory is less projecting, and the sacrTun is broader and siiorter ; the obturator foramina are larger, and triangular rather than oval; the pubic arch is broader and more rounded in its up23er part, the angle being 90° to 100 instead of 70° or 80° ; the depth of the symphysis is less; and, finally, the sacro-coccygeal joint is more movable than in the male. In order to contrast the age differences of the pelvis the Fig. 4.—Pelvis of seven moiitlis' fu tus. (After A. Tiiomson.) foetal may be compared with the adult female. In the former the promontory is high, the pelvic inclination being 75° to 80°, and the sacrum and coccyx are straight; in the latter the promontory is not so high, it projects forward more, the pelvic inclination is from .55° to 60°, and the sacrum and coccyx are concave ; in the foetus all the diameters are relatively smaller in the true pelvis than in the adult, and the ti-ansverse at the brim is only slightly longer than the conju- gate instead of being markedly so as in the adult; it is usually stated that the sacrum in the foetus is relatively narrower than in adult life, but Arthur Thomson {loc. cit.) denies this : and, finally, the ischial tuberosities are nearer to each other at the outlet in the foetal pelvis than are the ischial spines, while in the adult the spines are nearer than the tuberosities. The racial differences of the pelvis have not yet been fully worked out; but it woidd seem that among the primitive races of America and Australia, and in the case of the jMalays, the diameters at the pelvic brim approximate more closely to each other, so that the antero-posterior and the transverse come to have nearly the same measurement. In otiier words, tliC inferior races 28