483 GONORRHCEAL INFECTION Medico-legal Aspects oj Goiwrrhceal Infection. —The discovery of the gonococcus was at once hailed as of importance in medico-legal work, e.fi. in cases of rape where gonococci were discovered in the vulvo - vaginal discharge of the victims when the accused suffered from gonorrhoea. This is certainly an important corroboration ; still bacteriological science is not yet suiiiciently exact to warrant our making very definite statements. There are still very many im- portant points requiring elucidation before we can reach that degree of accuracy required for expert evidence in a court of law. A great controversy has existed for some time, and still exists, concerning the nature of the vulval discharges in infants and young children. Indeed, there occurrence has been used as a foundation for false charges of rape against innocent individuals. In such cases a careful examination should be made of the vulva, noting the presence or absence of excoriations, and in addition the discharge should be micro- scopically examined to determine the presence or alssence of {a) spennatozoa, {b) gonococci. The chief difficulty surrounds the identity of the gonococci, for various Continental authorities have stated that these cases of vulvo-vaginitis in infants and young children are all due to gonorrhoea, — some being caused by direct infection, while others are due to infection fi'om dirty towels, linen, etc. In this relation it must be remembered that there is a popular superstition that sexual inter- course with a virgin will cure an attack of gonorrhoeal urethritis. A series of cases of vulvo-vaginitis in children were carefully examined by the writer of this article, with the result that although a few are gonorrhoeal the great majority are not. The reason whj^ so many conflicting state- ments have appeared in papers written on this subject is that, as the writer believes, mistakes have been made over the identit}' of the organism present. In the vulvo-vaginitis of infants and young children the discharge frequently contains an organism resembling closely in form and colour reactions the gonococcus, but differing in this important point, that it can be cultivated on gelatine, whereas the gonococcus does not grow on this medium. It is this organism which has been mis- taken for the gonococcus, and has led to the erroneous statements whicli have been made on the etiology of vulval discharges in children. The identity of any micro-organism is not complete until the most reliable evidence of all, viz. the cultivation test, has been furnished. If then the purulent discharge be examined microscopically, and the organisms cultivated, a more correct view of the causation of this disease will be obtained. It will be found that a large number of the contributions on this question may be disregarded, as in the investiga- tion of the subject the cultivation test was not employed. In countries where prostitutes are system- atically examined, bacteriological tests should be applied to the discharges before declaring that a woman is free from infection. The statistics furnished from various large Continental cities show how frequently gonorrhoea is found among women of this class. The bacteriological tests (microscopic and cultural) require to be oft repeated, many specimens of the discharge being examined, and at different periods, before a definite opinion is given. GonoroS.—A preparation containing only certain constituents of sandal-wood oil, and said to act better in cases of gonorrhoea than the sandal-wood oil itself. GonOSa.n.—A preparation highly spoken of in the treatment of gonorrhoea ; it is a 20 per cent solution of the resins of the Polynesian kawa-kawa root in sandal-wood oil. Goose - Cougfh. — The paroxysmal, wheezy cough, due to pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves, which occurs in cases of aneurysm of the thoracic aorta. Goose-Skin. See Cutis Ansbrina. Gossypii Radicis Cortex.—The bark oF the root of Oossz/piiim herlidceuin. is used officially in India and the Colonies for the same purposes as ergot; there is a Decoctum Gossypii Eadicts Corticis of which the dose is i to 2 fl. oz; and an Bxtractum Gossypii Radicis Corticis Liquidum^ of whicli the dose is -J- to 1 fl. dr. GoSSypaUSTl.—Cotton-wool, consisting of the hairy appendages of the seeds of Gossypium harhadense and other species; " absorbent'' cotton-wool has had the fatty matter removed, " non-absorbent " or ordinary cotton-wool has not; pyroxylin is made from cotton-wool by immersion in a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acids, and from it is obtained collodion {q.v.). Goulard Extract. — Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis Fortis or strong solution of the subacetate of lead. See Lead. Goulard Lotion. — Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis Dilutus or Goulard Water. See Lead. GoundU.—A disease of the nose, common on the Golil Coast, in which, after an attack of yaws, two bony swellings appear one on each side of the root of the nose and cause great de- formity of the face ; they are due to osteoplastic periostitis ; henpuye, anakhre, or dog-nose. See Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Henpuye).