GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 419 podophyllum throe times a day) is sometimes serviceable ; it may be given in mixture or on powdered sugar. As an occasional aperient, syrup of senna (lH_x.-xv.) or calomel (gr. j.-ji.) is suitable for infants; castor oil should not be used where there is any tendency to habitual constipation, as it tends to make this worse afterwards. Enemata are often necessary, and for occa- sional use there is no objection to soap and water or glycerin, but the smallest that will work is the best, for it is possible that large injections may produce some atony of the gut, and so aggravate the constipation. On this account olive oil (h-l ounce), followed by one or two ounces of soap and water, is better than a large soap and water enema. Where frequent injections are necessary, glycerin is apt to be to(j irritating to the rectum. The simplest and safest remedy for frciiuent use is a piece of map used as a suppository, and for a time this is usually efficient, but if used very often it is apt to lose its effect. Congenital Dilatation of the Colon This name has been applied to a rare con- dition in which obstinate constipation is associ- ated with great dilatation and hypertrophy of the colon, apparently without organic obstruction. The name is perhaps not strictly accurate, for although it seems probable that some congenital abnormality of function or structure underlies this condition, and the chief symptom, namely, constipation, has in most cases been present from birth, the dilatation of the colon cannot generally be detected clinically initil some weeks or even months later. Almost all the cases of " idiopathic" dilata- tion of the colon which occur in childhood appear to be of this variety, but a very similar condition occasionally begins in adult life, although in some of these cases also there is a history of much constipation from birth. It seems possible that there may be some family predisposition to this condition, for in one case that came under the writer's observa- tion a brother had died of it; and in another a second child had died apparently with tiie same condition. It is a curious fact that almost all the recorded cases have been in boys. Symptoms.—The child is apparently healthy at birth, but there is great difficulty in getting the bowels open. For a week or more they may not act, and in one case nineteen days elapsed after birth before they were opened. Very rarely constipation does not begin until some weeks or even for two or three months after birth. When the child is a few months old, sometimes only when it is a few days old, the abdomen is noticed to be large, and with inci'easing constipation the abdomen may be- come enormously distended. In one case the distension was so great that the heart was pushed up so that the upper limit of cardiac dulness was at the first rib. CFdema of the lower limbs may result from pressure of the distended bowel on the veins. The most characteristic feature, however, is the visible peristalsis of the colon, which has sometimes attracted even the mother's notice. The surface of the abdomen is seen to rise and fall in irregular eminences and depressions from time to time, corresponding with the slow ver- micular movements of the enormous coils of hypertrophied colon which seem to fill the whole abdomen. Usually in spite of all treatment the con- stipation persists; the bowels are ojjen only at long intervals, and by artificial means; in two cases under the writer's observation the inter- vals were sometimes as long as five or six weeks. During these periods there is often headache and vomiting, and the breath is sometimes very offensive. Abdominal pain is usually absent throughout, except sometimes towards the end of the illness. The appetite in some of these cases is very large, but the child does not thrive; it is poorly nourished, and in the latter stages may be con- siderably wasted. Sooner or later, sometimes within the first year, sometimes not till the child is ten or twelve years old, the distension of the abdomen becomes extreme, thei'e is some tenderness on palpation, and the constipation is replaced by diarrha^a, the stools being liquid, drab-coloured, or pale yellow, and perhaps frothy. The tem- perature, which hitherto has been normal, may now rise, and in a few days, partly from re- spiratory difficulty, owing to the abdominal distcnsioi), partly perhaps poisoned by absorption from the dilated intestine, the child dies. Morhid Anatomy and Pathology.—The large intestine is found to be enormously dilated, and its muscular wall hypertrophied. The dilatation is not always uniform throughout, and it probably varies somewhat during life with the changing relations of the liowel in peristalsis ; the hypertrophy, however, seems to atlect the whole large intestine down to the anus. Often some recent ulceration of the mucous membrane is present, genei'ally trans- verse and linear in appearance, the result, no doubt, of the acute and extreme distension which precedes death ; the idceration is seldom extensive, and may be limited to the part where the distension is most marked. The distension of the bowl is found to be due partly to gas, partly to accumulation of ffeces, which are often quite liquid; but the condition I'ound post- mortem is probably different from that which exists during the greater yavt of life, for during the last few days or weeks of life, as already mentioned, acute syniptoms supervene, and there can be little doubt that these coincide