ECLECTICISM 12 action or its good effects on any recognised prin- ciples of pharmacology or therapeutics. Eclimia..—Excessive hunger (Gr. €KAi/i,i'a) or inordinate appetite ; bulimia. See Appetite {Increase). EciTinesia» —A variety of amnesia in which occurrences prior to a certain date are remembered perfectly, while those happening for a certain time after that date cannot be re- called. Economy. — The organisation or the harmonious working of any complex living body, such as an animal or a plant (Gr. olKov6jxo<;, one who manages a household). EcOUVillonagfe. — A gynecological operation in which the interior of the uterus is scrubbed out with an e'couviUori, or In'ush (con- sisting of a wire stem with strong, short quills projecting from it), especially in cases in which it is suspected that puerperal debris is present, and is setting up morbid intra-uterine processes and causing saprsemic symptoms. See also Curettage. Ecphronia..—Insanity (Gr. eKfjipuyv, sense- less), of a maniacal (e. mania) or melancholic kind (e. melancholia). Ecphyadectomy. — Removal of the vermiform appendix (Gr. €K<jiv(i), to grow from, and eKTefjLVio, I cut out); appendectomy. See Appendicitis. Ecphyma,.—A blister, pimple, wart, corn, or callosity (Gr. tKfpvu), I grow from). EcplexiS.—A state of "stupor or con- sternation, the patient standing with open eyes and mouth, speechless and motionless " (Hack Tuke); it is derived from eKTrAvy^t?, panic fear. ^Cra.Seur. — An instrument (Fr. e'craser, to crush) for the separation (bloodlessly) of parts or tissues by gradual crushing; the apparatus consists of a chain, wire, or cord, which can be slowly tightened in a regular fashion by means of a graduated screw or rack and pinion; the wire may be heated and the ecraseur be made to burn the tissues (galvanic ecraseur). EcstclSy.—As the derivation (Gr. i^ia-rdvai, to put out of place) indicates, the word ecstasy literally means the state in which one is beside oneself; it has come to mean specially that morbid condition in which the powers of loco- motion and sensation (the lower cerebral and some reflex functions) are, for the time, sus- pended, while the mind (the upper cerebral functions) is exalted in its action and occupied exclusively with one idea (e.g. religious joy or sorrow, or rapturous delight); cataleptic trance. See also Catalepsy ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria ; Hysteria in Childhood ; Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms (Cataleptic Stupor); Spasm {Hysterical). Ecstrophy. — Eversion or extroversion, e.g. of the bladder. The word is derived from the Gr. ck-, or e^-, out, and a-rpetpecv, to turn, and, although it is often spelt "exstrophy," yet, according to Murray's JVew English Dictiona7-y (vol. iii. p. 453), it ought, according to the analogy of the Greek derivatives, to be " ecs- trophy," as above. It is usually applied now almost solely to the congenital malformation of the bladder (defective formation of the anterior vesical wall), in which that organ appears to be turned inside out. See Bladder {Malformations, Ectopion vesicce); Ectopia; Extroversion ; Teratology ; etc. Ectad and EctSll. — Both these words are derived from the Gr. (ktos, without; the former means toward the exterior, and the latter means belonging to or associated with the exterior (e.g. of a cell). Ectasin.—A substance acting as a vaso- motor dilator; ectasis, meaning distension or dilatation, occurs in such compound words as telangiectasis, and also, occasionally, alone. Ectenta.!.—An embryological term ; in the blastula stage of segmentation the line along which the ectoderm and entoderm join is called the ectental line. Ecthol.—A proprietary medicine recom- mended in erysipelas, and said to act as an antiseptic; it is a preparation of Thuja occiden- tal is and Echinacea angustifolia. Ecthyma.. See Impetigo {Impetigo Con- tagiosa of Tilbury Fox); Skin, Bacteriology of {Ecthyma).—This is not the name of any independent cutaneous disease, but is rather that condition in which there are deep-seated pustules, in which thick crusts form, and in which cicatrices or pigmentary marks are left; it is due to pyogenic cocci. EctO-.—Ecto- (from the Gr. Iktos, without) forms part of many compound words, and signifies ivithotit or external; thus ectoblast is the outer layer of a cell, ectoderm is the outer layer of the blastodermic vesicle or the epiblast, ectomere is one of the cells of the ectoderm, and ectozoon is an ecto-parasite (one affecting the outer aspect of the body of the host). EctOCardia.—Displacement of the heart, or ectopia cordis. The heart may be displaced to one side of the thorax, or down into the abdomen (through an opening due to defective development of the diaphragm), or outside the chest (due to defective development of the chest wall, such as fissure of the sternum or of the side wall of the chest).