201 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF large truncated elevations of the colour of the normal conjunctiva. At a later stage these become firmer and less vascular ; finally they may disappear, leaving depressions, so that the lid has a honeycombed appearance. At this stage cicati'icial contraction takes place, the groove near the free margin becomes deeper, and the whole lid becomes more curved from above downwards, so that the lashes may brush against the cornea—entropion. In all cases of trachoma the cornea should be carefully examined, since vessels are very apt to encroach on its upper margin—pannus. In cases of trachoma of old standing the roughness may disappear, but there are bands of cicatricial tissue beneath the conjunctiva, and by the contraction of these the lid is shortened and curved, the palpebral fissure narrowed, and the depth of the culs-de-sac diminished. At the same time the surface of the conjunctiva is unnaturally dry, owing to the destruction of its glands. A somewhat similar condition is occasionally seen independently of trachoma. This has been called " essential shrinking of the conjunctiva," or more recently "pemphigus," because in many cases the history has pointed to a connection between this disease and pemphigus of other mucous membranes. The disease is progressive, and eventually the whole of the culs-de-sac become destroyed, the lids being in contact with and adherent to the globe, and the cornea dry and opaque. llie ocular conjunctiva next claims our atten- tion. This should be quite transparent, so that the sclerotic is visible through it; it should con- tain only a few visible vessels, and should be freely movable over the sclerotic. There are a considerable number of small vessels which readily become distended and visible on exposure to any irritant hypera)mia of the conjunctiva. The distinction between this and simple con- junctivitis is one merely of degree. It is a matter of considerable importance to distinguish between conjunctival and ciliary injection. The former is due to distension of superficial vessels which supply the conjunctiva only, the latter to distension of fine vessels round the cornea, which are non-perforating branches of vessels which supply the iris and ciliary body. AVhen the vascularity is purely conjunctival the vessels are distributed over the whole surface; they can be emptied by slight pressure with the finger through the eyelid, and they can be moved with the conjunctiva over the surface of tlie sclerotic. In ciliary injection the affected area is limited to a zone about a quarter of an inch wide romid the cornea. The vessels can only be emptied by firm pressiu'c, and they are immovable. The distinction in tj'pical cases is therefore easy, but long-continued conjunctival injection may cause some distension of the deeper vessels with which they communicate, and ciliary injec- tion is usually complicated with conjunctival. If the injection is purely conjunctival inflam- mation of the iris may be excluded. On the other hand, the presence of ciliary injection should always raise a suspicion of inflammation of iris, cornea, or ciliary body. In catarrhal conjunctivitis, or catarrhal ophthalmia, the palpebral as well as the ocular portions are affected. In addition to the vascu- larity there is a secretion of mucus, which may merely be sufficient to render the surface sticky, or may be more abundant. Since the corneal epithelium is continuous with that of the con- junctiva it is often involved, superficial ulcers being formed. Phlyctenular conjunctivitis, or strumous ophthalmia, is common in children ; it may be associated with the catarrhal form, or may occur independently of it. Small round white elevations, about the size of millet seeds, appear usually at the margin of the cornea—" phlyc- tenulse." They may lie at some distance from the cornea, or there may be on the cornea itself small round superficial .ulcers which are of the same nature. Fhoto'phohia and Blepharospamn. — In any inflammatory condition of the eye the photo- phobia may be so intense that it leads to a reflex contraction of the orbicularis, which may render examination of the eye difficult or im- possible. Photophobia occurs more readily in children than in adults, and is often present in them in a severe form when careful examination of the ej'e fails to detect more than a slight catarrhal ophthalmia. As a rule, however, severe photophobia indicates that there is some ulceration of the cornea, or that this has been present till recently. The dread of light, how- ever, sometimes persists long after the cause has disappeared, and seems in such cases to be due to the fear that light will hurt, as it used to do, rather than to any actual pain. When the johotophobia is of this mental character it can often be overcome by placing the child with its face away from the light, and then reflecting light on to the eye from a mirror. When the spasm of the orbicularis has lasted long a mucous chink forms at the outer cantlius, and relief may sometimes be obtained by divid- ing the fibres of the orbicularis through this. When it is desired to examine the cornea in infants the child should be laid on its back on the nurse's knee, with its head towards the surgeon, who is also seated, so that he can steady the child's head between his knees. In cases of purulent or diphtheritic ophthalmia it is well for the surgeon to protect his own eyes by goggles. The lids can now be separated by placing a thumb upon each near the margin and gently drawing them apart. When the lids are swollen care must be taken, by keeping them