482 GONORRHEAL INFECTION entrance of pus organisms, both existing together until gonococci die or are overgrown by the pus cocci. (4) Toxic infection—the complications may be the result of the absorption of toxic products produced by the gonococci or the pus organisms. Under one or more of these headings the complications and sequelse of gonorrhoea may be explained. It is probable that a certain amount of toxic infection is present in every case. From the writer's own observations he is led to conclude that the effect of the action of the gonococcus on the particular soil attacked is to convert that soil into a suitable medium for the growth and development of pus oi'ganisms. If the invasion of pus organisms be great we may have various complications developed quite apart from the action of the gonococcus. In the consideration of this subject we may be led astray if, after constantly finding the same collection of organisms in certain lesions, we fix on one species as specific, and neglect the others as contaminations. The majority of the complications in the female are due to a mixed infection or to a secondary infection. The cases of rapid upward spreading of the disease, attended by the forma- tion of pyosalpinx, are in all probability examples of secondary infection. The more chronic cases are rather examples of mixed infection. The more efficient drainage for the female discharges renders the occurrence of marked toxic phenomena less frequent. Where, how- ever, the outflow is obstructed, as in certain cases of pyosalpinx and ovarian abscess, then toxic phenomena do occur. The presence of such phenomena, however depends entirely on the virulence of the purulent contents, as many cases of pyosalpinx and ovarian abscess are unattended by much systemic disturbance, not even elevation of temperature. Although it is stated that articular com- plications are relatively rare in women, it will be found that in the majority of cases a history of joint pains can be elicited. The occurrence of effusion into one or more joints is not uncommon, and ankylosis may develop as a consequence. More frequently, however, the joint affections are not severe, consisting in pain on movement accompanied by little or no effusion. The possibility of gonorrhoeal infection as a cause of synovitis in women should always be remembered. In the lower extremity the knee and ankle joints are most commonly affected. In the upper extremity the wrist-joint is selected. Treatment.—This is discussed under the Com- plications of Gonorrhoea, and only a short summary need be given here. In acute cases rest in bed should be advised, and in addition the avoidance of injections, which undoubtedly are very harmful. The writer does not recommend douching even in chronic cases, as in both the treatment can be more effectually and thoroughly done by swabbing out the vagina through a speculum with strong silver nitrate or strong carbolic acid solution. A similar application should be made to the endo-cervix. It is not necessary nor advisable to make application to the endo- metrium, for practical experience teaches that gonorrhoeal endometritis proceeds to a natural cure. For this reason also curetting should not be recommended, as it is not free from danger. In acute cases an antesthetic may be required owing to the pain and difiiculty in introducing a speculum. If, however, this treatment by swabbing out the vagina be properly carried out the onset of the disease may be checked. Too frequently the jjatients have used douches, or have been advised to use them, with the result that the upward extension of the disease has been increased. Now that gonorrhoea has been proved to be due to a microbe whose effects are at first purely local, involving mucous membranes, the rational treatment consists in an early destruction of this microbe. Moreover, in the female it is easy to expose the affected area and to apply the germicide directly on to the diseased surface; whereas in the male the difiiculty is greater even if aided by the urethroscope. Douching should therefore be abolished in the treatment of gonorrhoea in the female, and the method of direct application of the germicide to the diseased area should be substituted. For this pm-pose a germicide is required which has the power of soaking into the mucous surface. Nitrate of silver and strong carbolic acid possess this power, and are the best applications. These caustics should be applied with care at first twice weekly, then once a week and gradually discontinued. The endocervix and vaginal walls should be seared and care taken that no excess of the fluid is allowed to remain in the vagina. No gauze or lint soaked in the fluid should ever be left in the vagina, as sloughing of the vaginal mucosa may be produced. A diaper of antiseptic wool and gauze should be worn to receive the discharges. It should be frequently changed, as local cleanliness is of the greatest importance. If the immediate treatment of gonorrhoeal infection was more efficiently employed, less would be heard of those serious forms of ascending gonorrhoeal inflammation. In pregnant women a thorough swabbing out of the vagina will prevent the upward spreading of the disease after the confinement, and will save the eyes of the child from infection at birth. In addition to rest in bed and avoidance of douches the bowels should be kept freely open by saline aperients. Alcohol should be forbidden. For further details the reader is referred to the special articles " Vaginitis," " Vulvitis," etc.