FALLOPIAN TUBES 252 Trendelenburg position. The uterus is left behind, and thus the pelvic floor is not weakened. The dilated tube should be emptied by aspiration before any attempt is made to separate it from its adhesions; the author, in the case of a pyosalpinx, takes the further precaution of injecting tincture of iodine into its cavity. During the separation of adhesions sponges should be packed around the collapsed tube. The stump of the pedicle should be treated as recommended above, in the paragraph on Injuries of the Tubes. Besides the possibility of hernia of the abdominal wall there are certain grave objec- tions to this operation. Septic peritonitis not rarely follows its performance, and though the pus in a pyosalpinx may be absolutely free from germs, it is, on the other hand, never certain that the fluid in a hydrosalpinx is aseptic. Damage to the rectum may also cause sepsis or ftecal fistula. The uterus left behind is often imhealthy. The most usual evil result, how- ever,—a result which often does not become manifest till six months or more after the operation,—is painful inflammatory change in the stump, sometimes ending in suppuration and discharge of the abscess, and perhaps of the ligature as well through the abdominal wound or into the bowel or bladder. In a bad case of double pyosalpinx retroperitoneal hysterectomy is sometimes advisable. Vaginal hysterectomy with removal of the diseased tube is practised on a large scale abroad. Some of the perils of the abdominal operation above noted are avoided, but detach- ing a large tube from adhesions more or less out of sight involves considerable danger. Brilliant statistics have been issued, but the majority of cases which make them up would hardly have been submitted to any operative interference in this country. Altogether, when the abdominal operation appears inadvisable, and the dilated tube bears well down into the posterior vaginal fornix, free opening and drainage into the vagina is the best line of treatment. Salpingostomy.—This is a conservative opera- tion chiefly advocated by Polk, Skutsch, and Martin. It consists in opening a hydrosalpinx at or near the site of the ostium, so as to restore the patency of the tubal canal. The incision should be made in the long axis of the tube. The exposed mucous membrane is sewn by fine silk to the serous coat around the incision. Langhans objects to this practice, as it leaves a foreign body in the wound liable to set up local peritonitis, which would certainly close the artificial ostium and entii-ely defeat the object of the operation. But the mere incision may cause quite enough local peritonitis to seal up the new ostium, besides, it is difficult to make sure that the fluid in the tube and the mucous membrane are free from germs. Oderecht removed a tube on which salpingos- tomy had been performed a year and a half previously; it had become a pyosalpinx. Out of seventy-six salpingostomies by Martin and Mackenrodt conception was noted in the after- histories of four. The complications associated with hydrosalpinx are very indefinite, and hence the merits of salpingostomy are hard to de- termine even on statistical evidence. It is most likely to be successful when in an ex- ploratory operation for chronic pelvic pain and swelling the tubes alone appear diseased, and are clearly dilated through obstruction due solely to old perimetritic adhesions, the exciting cause of the peritonitis having passed away. Catheterism of the Tube.—The tube will some- times admit a sound passed first into the uterus in the usual manner, but deliberate catheterism is both uncertain and dangerous, hence it is to be rejected as a therapeutic or surgical agent in the treatment of tubal disease. The entrance of the sound into the tube has been proved during a laparotomy. Boursier {Archives din. de Bordeaux, May 1892) succeeded, according to his belief, in catheterising the left tube of a woman aged thirty-one several times; but within four months of the first successful attempt the sound could no longer be passed. It is not always possible to make sure that the sound has not really been pushed through the walls of the uterus into the peritoneal cavity, an accident which is of course to be avoided, though, strange to say, it is not necessarily followed by serious complications. Tuberculosis of the Fallopian Tube.—Of all parts of the female genital tract the tube is the most often affected with tubercle. Klein- hans recently collected some valuable statistics which show that the evidence gained from necropsies on phthisical women corresponds to that which is gained from abdominal operations.^ Frerichs found the tubes affected with tubercle in 12 out of 96 post-mortems on tuberculous women, whilst of 814 cases of inflammation of the appendages collected by Martin, Whitridge Williams, and von Rosthorn, the tube was tuberculous in 29. Chaffey and Quarry Silcock found tuberculous tubes in two children between four and five years old ; both had general tuber- culous disease elsewhere. The fact that tubercle of the tube exists in childhood may explain the appearance of hydrosalpinx and pyosalpinx in young virgins. Cullingworth believes that tubal disease in the virgin is generally, if not always, tuberculous. The disease in question is usually bilateral. Whitridge Williams finds that the majority of cases are secondary to 1 Since tlie above paragi-aph was written, Dr. P. D. Turner of Byde has shown from careful research at the Brompton Hospital that secondary tubercle of the uterus is relatively much more frequent than authorities seem to believe. It has probably been overlooked by others, as it is not so easy to detect as tubercle of the tubes (Trans. \ Ohstet. Soc. Land. 1899).