318 FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF them is entirely suspended by destruction of the feeding arterioles. The change chiefly affects the intima (endarteritis) with some participation of the adventitia (periarteritis). Arteries showing these changes may be found in every ripe placenta ; they are most numerous in the marginal cotyledons, and become progres- sively fewer towards the centre, but the total number of branches affected is relatively small. It is a little difficult to determine the precise period at which these changes begin, but it is probable that they may be found as early as the beginning of the seventh month, and appear to be slowly progressive during the three last months of gestation. From these changes results a progressive diminution in the blood-supply of the villi fed by tlie affected arterioles. The first structure which suffers therefrom is the epithelial covering. Many villi show in places complete atrophy of the plasmodial layer, the nuclei having dis- appeared, and nothing remaining but a thin structureless band. This change only occurs in patches, and intermediately the layer may be fairly normal in appearance. The layer of Langhans has entirely disappeared at this period, but it is doubtful whether its disappear- ance is due to the arterial changes, it probably precedes them. In addition to these atrophic changes the epithelium also undergoes a peculiar form of degeneration which has been the subject of much dispute, and is generally known as "fibrinous degeneration." It affects parts in wliich atrophy is not marked. An opaque fibrillated material, which stains much more deeply with ordinary reagents than the un- affected parts, takes the place of the plasmodial protoplasm. It possesses many of the staining reactions of fibrin, but also many affinities with hyaline material, and probably results from a process allied to coagulation-necrosis. Upon the degenerated areas fibrin is now deposited from the maternal blood in the spaces, and often con- siderable heaps of this material are found. Owing to the similarity of their staining reactions it is difficult to say where the fibrin ends and the degenerated epithelium begins ; the fibrin is, however, usually reticulated, which the degen- erated epithelium is not. In the ripe placenta these changes may be found upon any of the surfaces exposed to the maternal blood, but the proportion of villi affected is small, the greater number remaining free. Heaps of fibrin deposited upon neighbouring villi may meet, forming a bridge between them, and filling up the inter- mediate space. In this manner single villi or clusters of villi may be found completely em- bedded in aggregations of fibrin, thus forming minute areas of consolidation in the spongy placental substance. It is obvious that villi thus embedded must be functionless, being out of contact with the maternal blood. In point of fact, very large numbers of such functionless villi exist in every placenta at term. For the most part they occur in areas of microscopic size, but at times these areas are large enough to be visible to the naked eye, and have received the name of vjhite infarcts from their resemblance to old infarctions of the kidney, spleen, etc. A placental infarct is therefore a consolidated area of functionless placental tissue. Placental infarcts occur as firm, yellowish white, well-defined areas which stand forth in strong contrast to the deep red, spongy placental tissue which surrounds them. They vary much in size, but are rarely larger than a filbert; at times an entire cotyledon is involved. At the margin they pass abruptly into the placental tissue, but are never encapsuled. They are most numerous on the uterine surface and in the marginal cotyledons; at times they lie buried in the placental substance. The small nodules found on the fojtal surface of the placenta are small infarcts or masses of deposited fibrin. Large infarcts may soften and break down in the centre, and occasionally become the seat of calcareous deposit. On microscopic examination a relatively large part of the infarct is seen to be made up of fibrin. The villi involved in it have lost their epithelial covering, but often contain capillaries full of stagnant blood. In the larger divisions the final stages of obliterative endarteritis may be observed. The veins and capillaries remain full of blood from failure of the vis a tergo; sometimes also small areas of maternal blood are found between the villi. The affected villi rapidly degenerate ; the stroma loses its nuclei, and becomes converted into a structureless material which stains very feebly with all reagents. Their contour, however, remains distinct, as they are mostly limited by rings of fibrin. Fatty degeneration is marked both in the atrophied villi and the masses of fibrin. Finally, necrosis affects all structures, con- verting them into granular debris. Infarcts increase in size by peripheral extension, hence three distinct zones may be distinguished in the larger ones : a central zone of degenerated structureless material; a middle zone consisting of fibrin and atrophied villi; and an outer zone showing the earlier stages of degeneration of chorionic epithelium and deposition of fibrin in the intervillous spaces. The existence of placental infarcts has been known for a very long time, but their signifi- cance has been generally misunderstood. The older writers all regarded them as the result of disease, and a great variety of different morbid processes have been described as causing them. Robin is alone among the writers of forty to fifty years ago in attributing them to the opera- tion of natural causes; he compares the process with that by which the extra-placental villi are disposed of in the earlier months of gestation. As a matter of fact, atrophied villi embedded in