GOUT 497 abandoned. It' this is so, we must start afresh in search of the cause of the acute paroxysm. In his later writings Garrod adopted the view that the kidneys are the seat of formation of uric acid in health, an opinion which must obviously very materially influence the views put forward as to the etiology of gout. In this view lie has of late years been ably supported by Ijutt", who has formulated the following con- clusions from his original observations on the subject:— i. Uric acid is not normally present in the blood of man and other mammals, nor in the blood of birds. ii. Uric acid is normally produced only in the kidneys. iii. The presence of uric acid in the blood in gout is due to its deficient excretion by the kidneys, and to the subsequent absorption of the non-excreted portions into the blood from these organs. This view as to the physiology of uric acid is in opposition to those entertained by most physiologists, and in addition the writer has published a series of observations which tend to negative these conclusions. His investigation comprised the examination of very large quanti- ties of the blood of birds, and also the liver, kidneys, and spleen, and the results showed the presence of an appreciable amount of uric acid in the blood and also in these various viscera. In 1882 Ebstein, as the result of an elaborate series of experiments already briefly referred to, came to the conclusion that the essential element in the gouty process was the development of necrotic areas in the tissues, in which crystalline deposits of urate of soda subsequently took place. He regarded the tissue necrosis as the primary condition, and the uratic deposits as a secondary development. He accepted Uarrod's view that the uric acid was the causal agent of the necrotic process, his opinion being that the tissues were led to undergo necrotic changes by contact with uric acid in a soliMe form. The increase in the uric acid was regarded by him as arising in the majority of cases of primaiy articular gout through excessive formation of uric acid, and he considered that it was only in the rare cases of primary gouty kidney that retention of uric acid occurs. He considered that the excessive formation of uric acid took place in abnormal situations in the body, espe- cially in the muscles and medulla of bones, and he further held that acute or chronic conditions, or even permanent organic changes, may occur if the excessive uric acid in the lymph passages of the skin, bones, or muscles become congested, as it may do in various parts of the body at once. If the congestion in the lymph passages leads to cessation of Ij'niph flow, then there occurred the sudden acute typical attack of gout. Many objections liavc been raised to Ebstein's VOL. in views. Thus the retention of uric acid pro- duced in birds by ligature of the ureters is very much greater than the uric acid retention in man in acute gout. Further, the acid i-eaction of the necrosing tissues recorded by Ebstein as essential for the deposition of the uric acid salts is not borne out by v. Noorden, who repeatedly found an alkaline reaction of softened tophi. We must also have regard to the opinions of various observers already indicated, to the eflt'ect that deposit of urate crystals takes place in living tissues, a view diametrically opposed to Ebstein. And lastly, Luff has suggested that, as ill Ebstein's experiments, uratic deposits occurred in the muscles, liver, and serous membranes, situations very rarely encountered in the human subject, the two conditions are hardly to be considered analogous. V. Noorden lias advanced the view that the uric acid formation and deposition is a secondary process produced by the presence of a special local active ferment, and quite inde- pendent of the amount and the condition of the uric acid found at other areas in the body, and he has renounced the view that the uric acid has a causal relationship to gout. Haig's views stand alone in their originality and unhesitating boldness (Ewart). He believes that uric acid, or perhaps xanthiu bodies, are the root evil of a great many disorders other than those generally accepted as gouty, and he liases his views on observations made on the acidity of the urine and the uric acid-urea ratios taken along with hypothetical conclusions as to the state of the blood and tissue juices. Person- ally I have never been able to obtain results which harmonise with his records, and he is to my mind unduly credulous in his interpretation of the state of the urine, blood, etc., as ascer- tained by the methods employed. The beneficial effects of the treatment advocated by him are imdoubted in many cases, but the appropriate explanation is not, I think, to be put along the uric acid-urea lines referred to by him. Sir William Roberts, 1892, as a result of an important series of chemical investigations on uric acid and its various combinations, advanced the view that there ai'e three compounds of uric acid (H.,U). These are, the neutral ui'ate, M.,U, where the metal replaces all the displace- able hydrogen ; the biurate, MHU, where half the disj^jlaceable hydrogen is replaced by the metal; and the quadriurate, H._,U MHU, where one-fourth of the displaceable hydrogen of two molecules is replaced by the metal. The neutral urates do not exist in the body; the biurate is found in the form of biurate of soda in gouty concretions ; and the quadriurate he regarded as the sole form in which uric acid exists in normal urine. He inferred that in the normal state uric acid is primarily taken up in the system as a quadriurate, that it circulates 32