ERGOT 174 Various other principles have been described, but it is not certain that these are not merely derivatives of the above. Preparations—1. Ex- tractum Ergotae Liquidum. Dose—10-30 m. 2. Extractum Ergotfe, commonly known as Ergotin. Dose—2-8 grs. 3. Injectio Ergotse Hypodermica, containing 33 per cent of the extract. Dose—3-10 m. 4. Infusum Ergotse. Dose—2-2§. 5. Tinctura Ergotse Ammoniata. Dose—5-13- Owing doubtless to the difficulty of obtaining the official preparations in a fresh and active state numerous other forms are now in use. Cornutin and ergotinin have both been em- ployed, the latter usually as its soluble citrate in doses of - gr. " Ergot aseptic " is a pro- prietary preparation of the liquid extract, con- centrated and sterilised, and put up in 1 cc. glass bulbs. The most important use of ergot of rye is to stimulate the contractions of the uterus after childbirth with a view to the prevention or arrest of post-partum hsemorrhage. Some physicians give it as a routine practice, even in the absence of any indications, but this is probably un- necessary. In some cases, however, although there are no immediate signs of haemorrhage, it is wise to administer it, for example, after a long tedious labour, when the uterine muscle may be expected to be lax and atonic. To ensure prompt action it is usually best to em- ploy a preparation of ergotin injected deeply into the gluteus maximus. As a general rule, ergot is to be absolutely prohibited dm-ing the second stage, as it brings about a tonic persistent con- traction of the uterus, endangering the life of the child, and even in some cases acting as a contributory cause to rupture of the uterus. Occasionally one may venture on its use at this stage, but only when the cei'vix is fully dilated, and when one is perfectly certain that no ab- normality or obstruction to delivery is present. It should practically never be employed during the third stage, the indications in almost every instance being for its administration after, and not before the removal or expulsion of the after- birth. During the puerperium it is of value in cases of imperfect involution, or where symptoms exist pointing to the retention of blood-clots or pieces of membrane and placenta in the uterus. In accidental haemorrhage it is good practice, after the membranes have been ruptured, to give ergot, as our object in such cases is to control the bleeding by all means that increase the contraction of the uterus. Ergot is very useful in some forms of menorrhagia. As a general haemostatic ergot has now to a large extent fallen into disrepute. It is argued, and with good reason, that the general rise of blood- pressure produced will more than counteract any local action that may occur. When one main object in treatment is to keep the blood-pressure low, as in cerebral haemorrhage, it is certainly to be avoided, but many authorities still strongly advocate its use in large, frequently repeated doses in haematemesis and haemoptysis. When the bleeding is from an erosion in a vessel of any size ergot is obviously useless, but it is for the oozing of blood from a larger area that the drug is specially recommended, and should be given a fair trial. Headache, migraine, infantile paralysis, locomotor ataxia, aneurysm, and many other diseases have been treated by ergot at one time or another, but without any appreciable benefit. The whole question of blood-pressure and the reciprocal relations of the diffei-ent parts of the vascular system is at present being investi- gated afresh, and many old founded beliefs are receiving a rude shock; and it is more than possible that with a better understanding of the physics of the circulation, and improved means of clinical observation, a larger sphere of usefulness in general therapeutics may be opened up for ergot of rye. Erg'Otin. See Ergot. Erg^Otinin. See Ergot. Erg'Otism. See Ergot ; Toxicology [Acute and chronic ergot poisoning). Erlenmeyer's Method.—Rapid de- morphinisation in the treatment of morphino- mania. See Morphinomania {Treatment). "Ernutin." — One of Burroughs, Well- come, and Co.'s preparations; " a new product representing the active therapeutic principle of ergot." Erosion.—A superficial loss of tissue, e.g. of the skin or of a mucous membrane. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Pathology, Ulceration). Erotomania,.—Insanity in which there is loss of control over the sexual appetite; Nymphomania or Satyriasis. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of In- hibition, Nymphomania); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Genital Organs). Eructations.—The bringing up of gas from the stomach. See Indigestion {Special Forms, Flatulent Dyspepsia); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {General Symptom- atology, Eructations). Eruption.—The breaking out of a cutane- ous rash or the emergence of a structure {e.g. a tooth). See Dengue {Clinical Features, Third Stage); Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Feigned Eruptions); Hysteria {Symptoms, Trophic Troubles); Measles {Symptoms, Erup- tion) ; Syphilis {Cutaneous Manifestations); Teeth {Eruption); etc. Eruptive Fevers.—The exanthemata, such as measles, small-pox, scarlatina, etc. {q.v.).