ELECTRICITY 60 are drawn between the action of the currents from the coarse and fine coils respectively, and at slow or rapid interruptions. The two cur- rents differ in their electromotive force and in volume of current, that of the primary or short coarse coil having lower voltage and greater volume, that of the secondary or long fine coil having high voltage and ■ less actual ampereage. The current from the long fine coil will then be specially adapted for high resistances, when localised sensory effects are desired, as in treat- ment of the dry skin with the wire brush. The primary coil will be more useful for low resist- ances and diff'use muscular effects, as in treat- ment of constipation, with one pole in the rectum, and a large moist abdominal electrode. With wet electrodes and well-moistened skin the fine coil current has powerful eff"ects on muscle, and the physiological effects, both muscular and sensory, increase with the rapidity of interruption up to 50 or 60 per sec, which is about the maximum of inteiTuption obtained with an ordinary well-constructed instrument. Hence, in practice, the primary coil is rarely used by most practitioners, both muscular and sensory effects being obtained from the long fine coil. The best machines have the outer movable coil made of three different thicknesses of wire, which can be tapped at various lengths, or the whole used if necessary. Generally speaking, fine coil currents, with rapid interruptions, are indicated for the treatment of ansesthesia and neuralgic pain, while coarse coil currents are better for producing muscular effects with low resistance, as by internal application. The most useful speed of interruption is 40 or 50 per sec. With slower speeds and well-moistened skin there is less pain produced and good muscular contractions, tetanus becoming resolved into single contractions if slower than 10 or 12 per sec. With high speeds of interruption, 300 per sec. and upwards, the current is not felt, and no muscular effects are produced, slight numbing of the skin only. Faradism is useful in the later recovering stage of muscular wasting, and in organic nervous diseases is often of use in improving anaesthesia, and also in keeping up the nutrition of skin and muscles, reddening of the skin always following its application. It is doubtful whether the current has any curative effects upon the nerves or cord. In neurasthenia and hysterical paralyses and anaesthesias, faradism is of great service, and may be applied locally or generally by the bath treatment. The faradic douche may be applied to the spine and limbs by combining faradism with douche treatment, one electrode being applied to the patient's chest, and the wire of the other fastened to the metal douche or syringe. Severer treatment is used in hysteria by means of the wire brush for one electrode. which is applied to the dry skin, and dabbed, not stroked, upon it. This is exceedingly painful, and is sometimes used in arousing patients found comatose from drink or morphia. In dangerous chloroform narcosis it is also used as a stimulant, and the phrenic nerves may be stimulated, though this is of doubtful benefit. If the wire brush be used for any length of time it may cause an irritable pimply rash to appear, and sometimes even bleeding points. In the treatment of neuralgic pain faradism is often of great service, either alone or com- bined with galvanism. Severe neuralgic head- ache may often be greatly relieved by faradism applied to the forehead and back of the neck for ten minutes at a time. It is very sooth- ing, and may induce sleep. Combined with galvanism it is also of use in treating sciatica, when galvanism alone fails to give marked relief. Galvanism. — The facilities afforded by the use of the constant current for electric lighting are being now extensively used for the applica- tion of galvanism in medical practice. The street currents are of varying pressures, from 100 volts to 250 volts in different districts, the Board of Trade maximum for low pressure currents having been recently raised to 500 volts. The main CTirrent may be used to charge accumulators when a portable battery is needed, or for hospital or consulting room use it may be led direct on to a switch-board, such as that devised by Milne Murray, where it can be used to drive an induction coil, for cautery, or for application as galvanism. For this latter purpose especially it is necessary to reduce the voltage, which is first done by placing an eight- candle lamp in the circuit as a safety resistance. It is then further reduced by passing the current through a gradviated rheostat, usually made of graphite. It is found, however, in practice that patients treated thus in series with the dynamo complain of a burning sensation, even when the galvanometer is showing less current than they could easily bear from a Leclanche battery. This is probably due to rapidly varying voltage, and can be obviated by arranging the rheostat so that the patient is not in series with the dynamo, but on a shunt. In Milne Murray's apparatus the rheostat is made of a long coil of platinoid wire, containing no platinum, but having a high resistance. By means of a sliding contact an increasing length of this wire is thrown into the alternative circuit to the patient, thus increasing the amount of current passing through the latter. This is of course more wasteful of current, but the cost is really negligible. Main currents are much cheaper than battery currents, much more constant as a rule, and there are no parts to replace or get out of order. There are a few dangers to note in the use of strong currents from a dynamo; sudden breaks of current at the generating