1 VOL. Ill ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY Earth Burial.—The method of disposal of tlic dead commonly employed in this country. See OKMETERiEfs; Burial Places ; etc. Earth Closet.—A dry method of treat- ing the fiuces, by which earth instead of water is added to the deposit to act as a deodorant and absorbent of the excreta; dry sifted earth (loam or brick-earth) is used, and about one pound and a half is needed each time ; Moiile's system. See Sewage and Drainage {Conservanci/ System). Earth Eating^.—The form of perverted appetite in which cartli, cinders, and the like are eaten. See Appetite (Perversion) ; Hysteria ; Pica ; Pregnancy, Management (" Longings "). Earthnut Oil. — Arachis oil {Oleum Arachis), ground-nut oil, or pea-nut oil, is the expressed oil of the seeds of Arachis hypogasa ; and it is used in India and the Colonies instead of olive oil ; it is included in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharma- copa^a of 1898. Earthquakes. — The scientific in- vestigation of earthquakes and earth tremors (seismology) which is now being carried on in various parts of the world will, no doubt, ere long enable us to trace the efl'ect (if any) which exists between earthquakes and epidemics; it would seem that a destructive earthquake may, by throwing out of order the system of drainage in a town, by disturbing the water-supply, and by submitting the inhabitants to privation, be the indirect cause of epidemic outbreaks of disease. See Epioemiology. Earwigs. See Nose, Foreign Bodies (Parasites, Entomozoaria). Eastbourne. »S'eeTherapeutics, Health Resorts (English). Easton's Syrup.—The syrup of the tliree pliosphates {S//ru]ms Ferri Fhosphatis cum Quinina et Stri/clmina), given in doses of h to 1 fl. dr. ; a favourite tonic; it is to be remembered that each fluid drachm contains of a grain of strychnine. See Iron ; etc. Eating'. See Food; Physiology, Food AND Digestion ; etc. Eau de Cologne. See Alcohol {Varieties of Alcohol ism) ; Morpiiinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Eau de Cologne). Eau de Javelle.—A disinfectant solu- tion, also known as Labarraque's liquor; it is the Liquor Sodoe Chloririata' of the Pharma- copceia. Eau de Vie.— Brandy. See Alcohol {Spirits). Eaux Bonnes. See Balneology {France, Sulphur Waters). Eaux Chaudes. See Balneology {France, Sulpilmr Waters). Eberth'S Bacillus. See Typhoid Fe\'k1! (Htiolijij//, Characters of Bacillus typhosiis). Ebstein'S Method. See Obesity {Etiolo'jy, Treatment).—A dietetic method of treating obesity in which fat is allowed in the dietary. Ebstein'S Theory.—The theory that necrotic changes in the tissues are tlie primary cause of gout, the necrosis being due to the presence of dissolved urates in the bodj'-fluids. See Gout {Gout in Lower Animals).