207 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF of about three feet. The patient is directed to look witli the eye under examination fixedly at the eye of the surgeon which is opposite to it (i.e. the patient's right eye at the surgeon's left, and vice versa). The other eye both of patient and surgeon should be closed. It is now easy for the surgeon to detect any wandering of the patient's eye. The test-object may be a square of white paper, mounted on a black handle, or better, a long pin with a white porcelain head, such as is used for fastening on bonnets. This forms a conspicuous white object, is always clean, and can easily be obtained in various sizes. The surgeon holds the test-object mid- way between himself and the patient, but so far out of the line of vision that it cannot be seen ; it is then gradually approached towards the line of vision, and the patient is told to give a sign the moment that he becomes aware of its presence. The surgeon's own field aiTords a very useful check and standard of comparison. This proceeding is repeated in difi'erent meri- dians, and a defect in any direction can be readily noted. An examination for central colour scotoma should never be omitted in obscure cases. For tliis purpose a small red or green paper is generally used (red sealing-wax is excellent for the red). To a noi-mal eye the colour should become more vivid as the central region is reached; if a colour scotoma is present the colour will disappear or become dull. Care must, of course, be taken that the normal blind- spot, corresponding to the optic nerve entrance, is not mistaken for a scotoma. The limit of the field in normal vision varies slightly in different individuals. Roughly speak- ing, it may be said to extend externally nearly to 90° ; downwards to 65°; the upper and inner limits vary with the amount of elevation of the iipper lid, and the prominence of the nose. An average measurement is 55° for each. Indications afforded by abnormal visual fields. —The following may be cited as instances in which assistance is given by perimetry, but the list is not intended to be complete. Concentric contraction may indicate atrophy of the optic nerve or retina (the latter including " retinitis pigmentosa " and allied conditions). Contraction in all meridians, but most on the inner side, occurs in chronic glaucoma. Loss of the upper field is common in detachment of the retina. Loss of the temporal half of each field, " bi- temporal hemianopsia," indicates a lesion at the optic chiasma. Loss of the corresponding half of each field (i.e. both right or both left halves), rigiit or left hemianopsia, indicates a cerebral lesion on the side opposite to the blind areas. Lateral hemianopsia is nearly always i-eferred by the patient to the eje towards the blind side. Night-blindness, or excessive lowering of the visual acuity when the light is diminished, is met with in retinitis pigmentosa and allied con- ditions of the fundus, as cases of old choroido- retinitis, with much destruction of the epithelial pigment layer. Patients with this symptom may see fairly well in a good light, in excep- tional cases even having normal vision, but when dusk comes on they have to be led about; they also see very badly by artificial light. Night- blindness is frequently accompanied by per- manent contraction of the visual fields. Forster's photometer is a useful instrument if it be desired to record the degree of night- blindness. It consists of a box blackened on the inside. At one end is placed a test-object, such as some reading types. These are illumin- ated by a light of constant strength admitted through an aperture the size of which can be varied. The patient places one of his eyes to an aperture made for the pui-pose, and the light opening is gradually enlarged till he can see the test-object. If the apparatus is used under identical conditions the size of the aperture may afford a means of noting and recording the pro- gress of the case. There are, however, consider- able individual differences in the light sense. Bjerrum's test-types, which correspond in size to Snellen's, but are grey on a grey background, afford a ready means of testing the patient's ability to distinguish between grades of illumina- tion, as the conti-ast between the letters and the background is much reduced. A patient with defective light sense will fail to distinguish the letters from the background, and his visual acuity tested by this method will fall far below that of a normal individual tested in the same way. The value of this test, however, is much weakened by the very wide variations which normal eyes present. Eyeball, Injuries of. Preliminary IIemarks .... 207 Injuries by Contusion without Pene- tration ...... 208 Ciliartj Rejjion^ Cornea, Iris . . 208 Cydoplegia, Lens .... 208 Vitreous, Choroid .... 209 Retina 210 Injuries from Penetration without Re- tention OF Foreign Body . . .210 (a) Indirect Rwpture . . .211 {/)) Direct Ri(j}ture or Wound Enu- cleation. . . . .211 Injuries by Penetration, with Reten- tion OF Foreign Body . . .214 In Aqueous Chambers . . . 21-i Lens 215 Vitreous 215 X-Ra?/s . . . .217 Injuries by Strong Light, Heat, and Chemical Agents . . . .217 Injuries of the eyeball are conveniently con- sidered under the following groups :—