GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 380 CroujMus Inflammation of the Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts.— Recently renewed attention has been directed to a form of cholecystitis and cholangitis associated with the formation of membrane or casts of the bile passages. The disease simulates in most respects ordinary chole- lithiasis, in which a gall-stone is passing through either the cystic or common bile duct, the pain and other evidences of such a condition being quite marked. Occasionally in these cases, wheia the stools are being searched for gall- stones, there have been found either distinct membranous casts shaped like the gall-bladder, or flakes of membranous material. The con- dition is usually associated with membranous enteritis, but there are, in addition, the symp- toms of gall-stone colic and consequent jaundice, caused by the passage of solid material through the inflamed ducts. The disease may be associated with gall- stones, or may follow after a long history of cholelithiasis. As a rule the diagiiosis is impossible unless membrane be found in the motions, and the case will be considered to be due to chole- lithiasis. This mistake is of less consequence since the treatment for the two conditions is the same. If, under the exhibition of saline aperients and careful regulation of the diet, the symptoms do not abate, cholecystotomy should be done, any gall-stones present removed, and drainage of the cyst established. At the same time any adhesions of the biliary apparatus to the surrounding viscera should be broken down. After recovery from operation the patient should be advised so to regulate his life as to diminish the risk of the occurrence of any gastro-in- testinal disturbance or of cholangitis. Cholangitis Acute Catarrh of the larger Bile Ducts.— Catarrhal jaundice, so-called, is an affection which, for the most part, occurs in young persons, and usually results from dyspepsia or exposure to cold, but it may take origin from other causes such as pneumonia, the infectious fevers (especially typhoid), and cancer of the liver. That this condition is due to catarrh of the larger ducts in many cases is probable, but, as I pointed out in my Hunterian Lectures (8) on Diseases of the Pancreas, I think that so- called catarrhal jaundice is frequently due to a swelling of the head of the pancreas compressing the common bile duct which passes through it in 60 per cent of cases. It is rare that uncomplicated cases succumb, but in some, where post-mortem examinations have been made, there has been found swelling of the mucous membrane, and plugs of mucus in the ducts have not infrequently been dis- covered. In addition, it is said, it can be seen that no bile has passed over the mucous mem- brane for some days, as all colour had dis- appeared from the affected part of the tube. Where death has taken place in cases of typhoid fever complicated with jaundice there has fre- quently been found unequivocal evidence of in- flammation of the mucous membrane lining the bile passages. The catarrh is most marked in the common duct and gall-bladder, and gradu- ally fades off in the hepatic ducts. Judging from the appearances found post- mortem, as well as from the clinical histories, it may be inferred that the inflammation usually spreads from the duodenum. Even a very slight inflammation at the termination of the common diict in the posterior wall of the duodenum would suffice to block the passage of bile, since it is secreted under very low pressure. Ordinarily catarrhal jaundice is preceded by some evidences of gastro-intestinal catarrh, either in the shape of a mild attack of dyspepsia with coated tongue and loss of appetite, or as an attack of nausea and vomiting with or with- out diarrhoea. In a day or two slight discolora- tion of the conjunctivEE appears, and the icterus increases for a week or ten days, thereafter gradually subsiding. Generally the patient feels out of sorts, but it is not usual for much con- stitutional disturbance to take place. Where the catarrhal condition in the ducts complicates some other disease the course of events will depend on the nature of this illness. In the majority of cases, where the patient is young and there is preceding gastro-intestinal disturbance, there will be little difficulty in arriv- ing at a correct diagnosis in a case of simple catarrhal jaundice, but it should be remembered that slight jaundice is often a comparatively early symptom in cancer of the liver, it being then usually due to associated cholangitis. The possibility of the disease being acute yellow atrophy of the liver should be kept in view, and indeed during the first week of this disease there may be no signs pointing to the gravity of the condition, and its coui'se may exactly simulate an attack of simple jaundice. In the later stages of the disease, however, the urgent gastric symptoms and the associated delirium, with the rapid pulse and subnormal temperature, taken along with the progressive diminution in the hepatic dulness and the ap- pearance of leucin or tyrosin, or both, in the urine can leave no doubt as to the diagnosis. In jaimdice due to cholelithiasis the presence of pain and tenderness, and the previous history of gall-stone colic or "spasms," will readily lead to a definite opinion being given, but if, as some- times happens, there be no marked pain, the icterus will be found to pass off" within a few days. The jaundice of hypertrophic cirrhosis may closely simulate that from simple catarrh, but in this form of cirrhosis there is enlargement of the liver and usually other symptoms, such as ascites, pointing to the real origin of the icterus.