162 EPILEPTIC COLONIES of the colony system. Into these institutions are taken epileptic children with a view to an education suitable to the peculiarities of their affliction, and epileptic youths and adults, with the object of affording them employment of a kind especially favourable to their disease; by which means it is hoped to ward off' or delay the downward tendency towards dementia which is characteristic of most cases of severe or prolonged epilepsy. Plan of an Epileptic Colony.—A properly designed epileptic colony should consist of various departments, each under the supervision of a competent head, the whole administrative control being under the care of a fully-qualified medical man. For not only have the inmates to be governed and educated, and have work apportioned to them according to their mental and physical capabilities, but they are sufferers from a disease having special peculiarities and characters which it is the business of a medical man to study and control. The colony should consist of :— 1. Residential buildings of the villa type, each to hold from 18 to 24 or 30 inmates. Each building should be complete in itself in so far as all domestic and sanitary matters are concerned. In charge of each should be a competent house- keeper. The houses for the males should be entirely distinct from those for females, and preferably at some distance from each other. 2. Farm, market garden, farm buildings, etc., and the bailiff''s house. There is no form of outdoor work upon a farm or garden from which an epileptic may be debarred. 3. Workshops, such as carpenter's shop, the smithy, bootmaker's, tailor's, laundry, etc. 4. The schools, which should be attached to the residences of the children. 5. The sick-house. — This is an essential element of an epileptic colony. Many epileptics become patients after their attacks, and require careful nursing and attention, and in some cases restraint. Hence the possession of a padded- room is an important feature in the sick-house arrangements. 6. An infirmary for the old and demented.—It would appear as if this became a necessity in a colony as time goes on. Those in England have not been sufficiently long established for this necessity to have arisen; but in the older colonies on the Continent it has been found beneficial to transfer the aged and infirm to such a building rather than to an asylum. 7. The administrative department, consisting of the residence of the Superintendent and Matron, the general offices, and other necessary departments. The Financing of an Epileptic Colony.—There are several ways by which money may be raised to originate, support, and maintain these institutions. The first place is given to charitable con- tributions. Although money may be obtained from the sources to be immediately mentioned, it is necessary that this should form an im- portant element in the financing of a young and developing colony. 2. By payments from the School authorities. —The education of the epileptic child falls as much under the care of the educational authorities as that of normal individuals. It is advisable, however, that in the majority of cases the epileptic should be educated apart from the non-epileptic, although there are individual instances which may be excluded from this general statement. It has been suggested, and arrangements are likely to be made for the purpose, that the schooling of epileptic children of the poorer classes should be carried out in colonies for epileptics. From the purely medical side the following conditions appear to favour the separation of epileptic from healthy children, (a) Great frequency or severity of the seizures, even though there be no marked impairment of intellect. (6) If along with epilepsy there exists feeble-mindedness, but without actual idiocy or imbecility. If there be no intellectual blunting, and the fits occur at long intervals or only at night, there is no indication to education apart from other children. 3. By payments from Boards of Guardians.— Owing to the detention in workhouse infirmaries of numbers of epileptics, many of whom are sane, able-bodied, and capable of work under direction, the guardians should have the power to pay for and maintain such persons in epileptic colonies, where their services may be usefully employed, and their disease treated upon physio- logical lines, so that they may be placed under the most favourable conditions for the ameliora- tion of their disease and possible recovery. But as a matter of much importance, it should be in the power of Boards of Guardians to assist the relatives to maintain an epileptic member of their family at one of the colonies without at the same time pauperising such individuals. 4. By the payment of colonists.—This is an important item, and a necessary one in the early stages of an unendowed colony. In some institutions three grades of colonists are admitted : the first, a highly-paying class, pay sufficient to cover their own expenses as well as to assist those of the third class, who are most likely unable to meet the full outlay required for their keep. The second or intermediate class merely cover their expenses by their payments. In course of time the industrial or farming operations ought, under judicious care and management, to cover their own expenses, and perhaps afford a small balance of profit; but in a colony in full working order, with the necessary superintendent, heads of departments,