13 ECTOGENOUS EctOg'enOUS. — Capable of developing outside a host, but usually parasitic, e.g. certain micro-organisms. EctOpa.gfUS.—A form of double monster, in whicii the twins are luiited by the lateral aspect of the thoraces {Gr. Ikto^, without, and TTrtytos, fixed); there may be two arms (dibrachius), or there may be three (tribrachius), of wliich one is median and may show signs of duplicity. See Teratology. Ectopia,.—Displacement {Gr. (.ktotto^, dis- tant, out of the way), e.g. ectojoia cordis (dis- placement of the heart, ectocardia), ectopia lentis (dislocation of the crystalline lens), ectopia testis (the presence of the testicle in the inguinal canal, in the perineum, or in the abdominal cavity), and ectopia vesica; (defective development or eversion of the urinary bladder). See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Malformatimis, Ecto- pion); Chest, Deformities {Congenital De- formities) ; Heart, Congenital Malformations {Ectopia Cordis) ; Labour, Faults in the Passenger {Child, Ectopia Viscerum) ; Lens, Crystalline {Displacements); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases {Ectopia Testis); Teratology {Malformations of the Thorax and Abdomen, and Contents). Ectopic Gestation. Definition . . . . . .13 Synonyms . . . . . .13 General Description . . . .13 Varieties— 1. Abdominal . . . . .13 II. Ovarian . . . . .13 III. Tubals («) Causes . . . . .14 {b) Varieties— 1. Interstitial . . .14 Life-history—Results . 14 2. Infundibular . . 14 Life-history—Results . 14 3. xinipullar . . .15 Life-history—Results . 15 General Symptoms of Tubal Gesta tion Diagnosis— {a) Before Rupture . . 18 {b) After Rupture . . 18 Treatment— (a) Palliative ... 20 {b) Operative— Early ... 20 Late . . .22 See also Abortion {Diagnosis); Menstruation and its Disorders {Menorrhagia and Metror- rhagia) ; Ovaries, Diseases {Diagnosis); Pelvis, Hematocele and H/Ematoma {Diagnosis); Preg- nancy, H/EMORRHAGE {Ectopic Gestation). There is probably no pathological condition of which more has been learned within recent years than extra-uterine pregnancy. To the late Mr. Lawson 'J'ait is due the honour of having, twenty years ago, commenced a scientific investigation of the condition, and of having devised satisfactory methods of dealing with it. But the abnormality was recognised even cen- turies ago, and the earliest writers mention this form of foetation as a curiosity, although they offer no explanation as to its cause. The remarkable book by Parry, jaublished in 1876, in which he recorded 500 cases, was, however, that which gave the first impetus to the advance of our knowledge of ectopic gestation. Several cases had been operated on before this time, but it was not till Lawson Tait operated in 1883 that a definite attempt was made to check the hemorrhage from a recently ruptured extra- uterine pregnancy, and so save the life of the mother. Under ordinary circumstances the normal site for the growth and development of the impreg- nated human ovum is within the cavity of the uterus. But it not infrequently happens that the ovum develops outside the uterus, and when this occurs, no matter whether it be found in the Fallopian tube, in the uterine wall, or elsewdiere, the condition is known as " Extra- Uterine Pregnancy," or better as "Ectopic Gestation." (French, Grossesse extra-uterine; German, Extra uterinschwangerschaft.) For purposes of description and discussion it is convenient to group these ectopic gestations under three distinct heads: 1. Abdominal; 2. Ovarian ; 3. Tubal. I. Abdominal.—-The possibility of the occur- rence of a primary gestation sac free in the peritoneal cavity has been denied by many authors. It is conceivable that a spermatozoon, after worming its way up through the uterine cavity and through the whole length of the Fallopian tube, might at last emerge from the fimbriated end, and meeting an ovum which had remained free in the peritoneum, miglit fuse with it. This is certainly conceivable, but its rarity is such as to practically put it out of court at once as unworthy of consideration. It is certainly of no practical importance, and is to be regarded purely as a curiosity. Very few observations as to the possibility of its occur- rence have been made, but the case of Schlect- endahl seems to indicate that it might occur. II. Ovarian.—This form of ectopic gestation is also rare, and its possibility is denied by many ; however, it is difficult to disprove the cases recorded by Leopold, Patenko, and Martin. Leopold removed a pelvic tumour of twenty- five years' standing, which proved to be an ovary containing a lithopaidion. Patenko removed an ovary the size of a hen's egg ; it contained a cyst in which were found fa^tal bones. Martin of Berlin has also recorded two similar cases, and advances the suggestion that the spermatozoon finds its way to the abdominal