2G9 FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF deflected towaixls the paralysed side, and lateral movements of the jaw can only be made towards and not away from the affected side. Usually electrical changes occur in the affected muscles, sometimes including the re- action of degeneration, and eventually the muscles waste. This wasting causes flattening of the temjKjral and zygomatic fosste, and muscular shortening may develop, limiting somewhat the extent to which the mouth can be opened. Remak describes subluxation of the lower jaw on the affected side, when the mouth is opened, but this has not been generally noted. No definite phenomena indicating paralysis of the mylohyoid and posterior belly of the digastric muscles can be made out, unless it be that the floor of the mouth is less resistant on the affected side when tested with the finger (Oppenheim). Miiller and Schmidt believe that the palatal arch droops on the paralysed side, but Gowers and the majority of neurologists doubt the existence of any definite manifestation of paralysis of the tensor palati, although they believe that the muscle derives its nerve-supply from the fifth. Similarly in no recorded case has any definite symptom resulting from paralysis of the tensor tympani been observed. In cases whei'e the paralysis is bilateral, the lower jaw cannot be finnly opjjosed to the upper. Referring for a moment to the etiology of masticatory paralysis as an isolated lesion of the fifth, htumorrhage, areas of softening and tumours in the pons have produced it, but there are few, if any, cases recorded in which a definite limited cortical or subcortical lesion has caused the condition. Turner mentions several cases recorded by Barlow, Dalmont, and Kirchofl', but in these the lesions and the paralysis result- ing therefrom were very extensive. Masticatory paralysis is far more commonly dependent on a peripheral than on a central lesion. Pdmlysis of the Sensory Fibres.—The sequence and the extent of the plicnomena vary consider- ably, mainly dependent upon the nature of the lesion. If the lesion is of an irritating nature, or of slow onset, pain may be the first symptom, sharp or burning, and often referred to the distribution of the affected branch or branches of the nerve, with generally marked painful points along the line of the nerve. The skin may be hypersesthetic especially to pain during this stage, and this may last even after tactile sensibility has been diminished or lost {see " Nei-ves, Neuralgia "). Pain may, however, be absent and antesthesia may be the fii'st symptom, tactile sense first being affected. The muscles of expression become antesthetic as well as the skin, so that grimaces may be voluntarily made without the individual being sensible of their performance. Contrac- tions of facial muscles are said to be slightly delayed in execution, probably from loss of common sensation. The mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, and tongue are antesthetic on the affected side, and a well-known phenomenon is the description given by the patient when drinking out of a cup, that he feels as if it were broken on the paralysed side, and not infre- quently the antesthetic mucous membrane of Diagi'ammatic representation of the three divisions of the fiftli nerve witli their principal brandies. the cheek is bitten by the teeth, and the bitten part heals abnormally slowly, and may even tend to idcerate. The patient does not chew with the affected half of his jaw because he is imable to locate the food, and food is apt to acciuuulate between the teeth and the cheek. The nasal mucous membrane becomes dry, and smell is in time intei'fered with, due possibly to trophic changes in the olfactory cells, possibly, however, as Krause and Majendi believe, be- cause the fifth nerve has a definite share in the recognition of the sense of smell. Sneezing cannot be induced by stimulation of the affected nostril. The ocular conjunctiva may be anaesthetic, and tears do not flow from the affected eye. Where this occurs it has been thought to depend on a lesion either at or peripheral to the spheno- palatine ganglion. The conjunctival reflex is also lost. Special reference will be made to common sensibility of the tongue along with changes in taste sensation later, meanwhile it is only neces- sary to state that as the whole of the tongue, the palate, and fauces derive their common