ENZYMES 127 are not destroyed by drying, but they require sufficient quantities of water for their action. If the solution contains, in addition to the enzymes, other substances in strongly concen- trated form which have an affinity for water, the action of the enzymes will be thereby im- peded, or possibly entirely prevented. Thus the presence in lai-ge amount of glycerine or of neutral salts acts as a hindrance. To the same cause, too, may in many cases be ascribed the fact that the enzymes have their activity reduced by the accumulation of their own metabolic products. Those forms of sugar which are pro- duced by the inverting ferments, and peptone, which is formed by the proteolytic ferments, are bodies which have a strong affinity for water. The temperature is another factor of great importance in zymolysis. The activity of solu- tions containing enzymes is, without exception, destroyed at the temperature of boiling water. This is another fact in favour of the proteid nature of enzymes. In this connection we have probably to deal with a coagulation of tlie enzymes. But the temperature which really "kills" enzymes is usually below 100° C, thus resembling that at which albuminous solutions coagulate. Destruction of almost all ferment solutions occTU's on heating to 70°, but if other soluble bodies, e.g. sugar, be present, a higher temperature may sometimes be required. A great number of fermentations will even be destroyed if the solutions be kept at a tempera- ture of 55° C. for half an hour. The tempera- ture at which enzymes manifest the greatest activity (optimum temperature) is very variable. For most of the ferments of warm-blooded creatures it lies about 37° to 40°, especially for the peptonising enzyme. The diastatic ferments have generally their optimum temperature about 55°. It seems that the temperature necessary to " kill " depends on the optimum temperature, i.e. tiie higher the optimum tem- perature, the higher also the temperature re- quired to "kill." Speaking generally, a gradually increasing destruction of the fei-ment commences whenever the optimum temperature is once exceeded. At -10° C. the activity of most ferment solutions ceases, but is not altogether destroyed by such temperatures. Even the cooling of a solution down to - 100° C. does not destroy enzymes (Hahn). If the frozen solutions are again placed at a temperature of -1-15° C. the enzyme action reappears. If in an absolutely dry condition ferments can be heated to very high temperatures (120°-160° C.) without show- ing any essential reduction in their efficacy when they are subsequently redissolved. Proteids, as is well known, behave in a similar manner: they, too, suffer no loss in regard to solubility and power of coagulation from heating when in a dry condition. While the fermenting organisms, excepting those which belong to the class of anaerobes. are for the most part inmble to live in the entire absence of oxygen, and therefore in- capable of setting up fermentation, the enzymes or unorganised ferments are independent of oxygen ; they even act when in an atmosphere of pure hydrogen or of carbonic acid in the same manner as in the presence of air or pure oxygen. On the contrary, it seems that they are easily oxidised, and free access of air is con- sequentl}' somewliat prejudicial to the efficacy. A similar difference ):)etween the organised and unorganised ferments is manifested in their behaviour towai'ds disinfectants. The enzymes are, in fact, more resistant than are the fermenting organisms. vEther, chloroform, benzol, toluol, and terpentine oil, in short all those antiseptics which act in the form of vapour, have almost no influence on enzymes. Sodium fluoride, hydrogen dioxide, and hydro- cyanic acid, too, do not destroy enzymes. But, on the other hand, those antiseptics Avhich coagulate albumin, such as corrosive sublimate, carbolic acid, and salicylic acid, and the fact points to the albuminous nature of the enzymes, have more influence on the unorganised fer- ments, but even then only if in greater con- centration than would, for instance, be necessary to kill anthrax spores. The behaviour of enzymes towards alkalies and acids is very variable. Whilst strong- alkalies and acids destroy the activity of the enzymes, they often, if less concentrated, favour zymolysis. It is more especially the activity of the hydrolytic ferments which is so dependent on the presence of weak alkalies or acids. The same phenomenon occui's in those hydrolytic processes which are effected without any fer- mentation. In such cases, e.g. the hydrolytic action of boiling water on starch, the process is materially aided by the addition of some acid. Fermentation is often intimately related to the presence of acids or alkalies. Pepsin, for ex- ample, acts only in an acid solution, tryi;)sin only in an alkaline one, and thus the requisite reaction may be usefully employed in forming a classification of the ferments. The kind of acid used is of importance. The hydi'ochloric acid which is so useful for peptonisation cannot be disjalaced by an equivalent molecular quan- tity of acetic acid without a diminution of the fermentation resulting ; hence one must in this case assume that the intermediate products which are formed, e.g. a combination of hydro- chloric acid and albumin, ai-e more suscep- tible to a further splitting up by means of the ferment. I. Hydrolysing Enzymes 1. Enzymes which sjolit up Carbohydrates (a) Diastatic Enzymes.—By the term diastatic enzymes we mean those enzymes which are able to convert starch and allied bodies into ferment-