20 ECTOPIC GESTATION It may be very difficult to differentiate between an old - standing solidified hsematocele and a myoma. In such cases much importance is to be attached to the history. 5. Ovarian Tumour with Pregnancy.—Ovarian tumours with and even sometimes without an intra-uterine pi'egnancy may sometimes cause con- fusion. This is especially the case if the patient suifers from attacks of pelvic pain. It is in these cases that the possibility of a twin pregnancy— one uterine and the other extra-uterine—must be considered. The diagnosis depends on the history and progress of the case and thorough examination under chlorofoi'm. Even more difficult is it to distinguish between an extra-uterine gestation and an ovarian tumour which has burst or whose pedicle has become twisted. The symptoms being often exactly similar, a diagnosis may be impossible until the abdomen has been opened ; otherwise, the diagnosis must depend on the history and the exact relations of the tumour to the uterus. 6. Tumours of the Fallopian Tube.—It is not remarkable that dilatation of the Fallopian tube from causes other than a growing ovum should simulate an extra-uterine gestation. The phy- sical signs, especially of pyosalpinx, with which are frequently associated either amenorrhoea or uterine hajmorrhages, closely resemble in many cases those of a tubal pregnancy. Further, the symptoms of rupture of such a swelling may be easily mistaken for those of hajmatocele. The absence of pyrexia cannot be relied upon for a diagnosis, as many cases of pyosalpinx have no febrile symptoms whatever. Much must depend on an accurate history of the case, which will frequently reveal a distinct cause of sup- purative salpingitis. 7. Abortion.—Extra-uterine pregnancy may sometimes be mistaken for simple abortion or an incomplete abortion. History and symptoms are often similar, but a careful bimanual ex- amination will easily clear up the diagnosis. Treatment The treatment of extra-uterine gestation may be conveniently considered under the following- heads : — 1. Before rupture. 2. At the time of rupture. 3. After rupture. 4. After suppuration, etc., of the foetus. 1. Before Rupture.—When the condition is recognised before rupture the only treatment which should be adopted is operative. The tube must be removed entire by abdominal section. 2. At the Time of Rapture.—In these cases it is often extremely difficult to determine whether or not to operate at once. In some cases it is better to adopt an expectant treatment owing to the very collapsed condition of the patient, and to operate later, if necessary, when the patient has to a certain extent recovered from the shock. Fortunately, in some such cases, especially when the rupture is extra-peritoneal, the haemorrhage ceases and no operation is required at all. The line of treatment to be adopted depends on a diagnosis, if this be possible, of whether the hfemorrhage is intra- or extra-peritoneal. It is in the former that as a rule immediate operation is indicated. Although one would not go so far as Werth, who says that " ectopic gestation is a malignant new growth, and therefore should be removed by operation at every stage of its development," there is no doubt that the treatment of extra- uterine pregnancy is essentially surgical. It is doubtless true that some cases recover without any active interference whatever, but in the great majority immediate or later operative measures must be adopted to save the life of the patient. The question of when to operate is sometimes difficult to determine. For example, in the latter half of a tubo-abdominal or a tubo- ligamentary pregnancy, if there be no signs of immediate danger some surgeons prefer to delay operation until full term with the view of ob- taining a living, viable child. Others go farther and wait till some time after the death of the child, in order that the placenta and surrounding tissues, having become shrunken and less vascu- lar, may be more easily manipulated. Each case, however, must be decided on its own merits, and the decision arrived at will be largely in- fluenced by attendant circumstances. In cases which recover without operation the pregnancy is terminated by the primary hfemor- rhage. The htemorrhage fi'om the uterus ceases, the pain disappears, and the swelling becomes no larger. Under these circumstances it may sometimes be well to give the patient a chance of cure by absorption. But in so doing one must realise that a natural cure is not always satisfactory. Absorption may necessitate weeks and even months of complete rest, and even then the patient may suffer from various pelvic dis- orders, caused by the formation of inflammatory adhesions, and resulting in displacement and distortion of the generative organs. Further, the foetus may be of such an age that complete absorption is impossible, and although the patient may seem well even for years, she is always liable to the risks of suppuration in and around the foetus. In all cases where the symptoms of pain, collapse, or hajmorrhage are acute, operation should be undertaken without delay. The Operation.—As this operation is usually undertaken in an emergency the usual prepara- tions must be hurriedly made. The abdomen is opened in the middle line and the clots rapidly removed, and the ovarian and uterine arteries, must be secured first of all by the fingers and then by forceps. The active hajmorrhage being