GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 401 Gastric Ulcer 404 Hoematemesis ..... 405 Malignant Growtli .... 405 Softening of the Stomach . . . 405 Disorders of Digestion— Flatulence and Colic . . , 405 Hiccough . . . . . 40G Vcnniting ..... 406 Repletion Vomiting . . . 406 Dilatation of the Stomach . . 408 Recitrrent Vomiting . . . 408 Diarrhcea— Acute— Simple . . . . .410 Infiavimatory . . . .411 Choleraic . . . . .411 Chronic . . . . . .412 Lieuteric . . . . .417 Constipation . . . • . .418 Congenital Dilatation of the Colon . 419 Prolapsus Recti 421 See also Atrophy, Infantile ; Children, De- \ blopment of {Stomach and hitestine) ; Cholera Nostras ; Convulsions, Infantile ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Infant Feeding ; etc. Congenital Anomalies I. The CEsojjhagus.—Congenital anomalies occur more rarely here than at any other part of the alimentary tract. The following conditions have l)een found :— (1) Transposition.—In association with trans- position of the stomach the cssophagus passes down on the right side of the vertebrte. (2) Absence or Oblitei'ation, partial or com- plete.—One variety of this shows very constant characteristics : the pharynx witli the upper \ inch of oesophagus is dilated, and forms a blind pouch ending just below the level of the cricoid cartilage ; below this the upper part of the oesophagus is absent, or represented only by a band of fibrous tissue, or a few muscular fibres ; the lower part is normal, and opens normally at the cardiac orifice, but above it communicates, by an opening about inch in diameter, with the trachea inch above the bifurcation. Such a condition may be suspected during life, when all food is regurgitated through the nose and mouth almost directly it is taken, and a sound cannot be passed down the pharynx more than about 5 inches from the lips. Death occurs from starvation in a few days; one case at Great Ormond Street lived fourteen days with rectal feeding. The most satisfactory explanation of this con- dition is that suggested by Mr. Shattock (Path. Soc. Trans. 1S90), wdio assumes that, at the time of the Inidding of the diverticulum from the anterior wall of the mesenteron to form the lower part of the trachea and the lungs, a kinking for- ward of the posterior wall occurs, so that the VOL. in lumen of the mesenteron, which should persist as the oesophagus, is occluded just above the level where the tracheal diverticulum is given off. The segment of the mesenteron below the kink, subsequently the lower part of the oesophagus, remains in communication with the tracheal diverticulum. " On the subsequent formation of the upper portion of the trachea the whole of the unduly contracted lumen (of the mesenteron) immediately above the diverticulum becomes involved in the formation of the air-passage." (3) Stenosis.—This occurs most often at the upper part of the oesophagus, about the level of the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, more rai'ely at the lower end just above the cardiac orifice. This condition may be recognisable during life l)y the difiiculty in swallowing. It has been treated by the passage of bougies. (4) Divei'ticula.—It seems doubtful whether any diverticula from the a'sophagus are actually congenital. A shallow pit is sometimes found in quite young children at the level of the bifurcation gland, where this has been caseous, but this is probably the result of traction rather than a congenital anomaly. The congenital diverticula which result from persistence of branchial clefts communicate with the pharynx, not with the oesophagus. II. The Stomach.—(1) xVbnormal Position.— The stomach may be transposed together with the heart and other viscera. It may project alone, or with part of the transverse colon or small intestine, into either pleui-al cavity, usually the left, owing to some deficiency of the diaphragm. (2) Persistence of Foetal Shape and Position. —The tubular shape and vertical position are sometimes retained. Some ■authors state that in early infancy some tendency to such a foetal condition is the rule, and no doubt this is true of the vertical position, but in the writer's experience any tendency to tubular shape has l)een extremely rai-e. (3) Abnormal smallness has occasionally been observed. (4) Hour-glass contraction or a partial septum may almost divide the stomach into two com- partments. (5) Stenosis or atresia of the cardiac, or less rarely of the pyloric orifice, may be present, and is probably quite distinct from the congenital hypertrophy of the pylorus described below. III. The Intestines. — (1) Abnormalities of position are very common in the large intestine apart from transposition of viscera which may involve the intestines. The sigmoid flexure, relatively much longer in tlie infant than in the adult, is often much above its average length even for an infant, and may reach over to the right iliac fossa, or form a loop upwards reaching to the right or left costal margin before turning- down to the rectum {vide Constipation, p. 418). The caecum also occasionally lies in an abnormal 26