GLASS-ROD TEST 462 Glass-Rod Test. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Abnormal Position, Tests) ; Strabisjius {Detection). Glass-Workers. See Trades, Danger- ous {Fluinhism from Glass-cutting). Glaucoma. Definition and Nature . Causes and Pathology . Prhilary Glaucovia . Secondary Glaucoma Symptoms Clinical Varieties— Acute Primary Subacute Primary . Chronic Primary Absolute Glaucoma . Secondary Glaucoma Treatment 462 462 462 464 465 467 468 468 468 469 469 See also Amblyopia {Diagnosis); Cataract {After Treatment of Cataract Extraction); Choroid, Diseases of {Sarcoma, Diagnosis); Cornea {Ulcerative Keratitis, Causes) ; Gout {Irregtilar, Eye Conditions); Headache {Dia- gnosis of Cause); Sclerotic, Diseases of {Staphy- loma, Infantile Glaucoma); Syphilis {Secondary, Eye Symptoms); Vision, Field of {Field in Glaucoma). Definition and Nature.—The disorder of the eye known as glaucoma depends essentially on an excess of pressure in the chambers. In the healthy eye the fiuid which fills the chambers keeps the tunics in a state of moderate tension, and thus preserves the form of the globe. Its pressure is equal to about 25 mm. of mercury; it varies somewhat with the force of the circula- tion, but only within narrow limits. Under certain circumstances the balance between the secretion and the excretion of this fluid is dis- turbed, an accumulation occurs in one or other chamber, the pressure rises, the tunics become more tense, the circulation of blood in the choroid and retina is embarassed, and the function of the eye is seriously disturbed. This is the con- dition which we call glaucoma. The name referred originally to a greenish discoloration of the pupil, but this, though sometimes seen in the later stages, is no necessary part of the disorder. The name as now used denotes the peculiar morbid process which depends on pressure. When glaucoma arises in an eye which appears to be otherwise healthy, we call it primary; when it occurs as a complication of some other disorder of the eye, secondary. Every eye which is suffering from an excess of internal pressure, however caused, is in a glaucomatous condition. Causes and Pathology.—The ciliary processes secrete a fluid which nourishes the vitreous body and lens, and fills the aqueous chamber. A very small part of this fluid passes slowly backward through the vitreous and leaves the eye in the region of the optic nerve; by far the larger portion passes forwards through the pupil and leaves the eye at the angle of the anterior chamber by filtering into Schlemm's canal and the minute veins connected with it. Glaucoma appears to depend in all cases upon some change which retards or prevents the escape of the intra- ocular fluid. In the large majority of cases the filtration angle is compressed or closed ; in a few it remains widely open, but its permeability is diminished by inflammatory changes in the filtra- tion area, or by blocking with blood, albuminous exudations, lens matter, or other abnormal con- tents of the aqueous chamber. These changes arise in various ways. Causes of Primary Glaucoma. — In persons whose eyes are predisposed to the disease, an acute attack may be brought on by exposure to cold and damp, by fatigue, hunger, loss of sleep, or excessive mental effort, by anxiety or depress- ing emotion, by constipation, vomiting, or alco- holic excess, in short by any condition which disturbs the cerebral circulation and causes con- gestion of the eyes. Sometimes an attack begins during the course of a febrile disorder, such as pneumonia or influenza, or it may arise through a local cause, such as an injury of the head, a contusion of the eye without apparent lesion, or a slight abrasion or burn of the cornea. In certain eyes, where the anterior chamber is shallow and the filtration angle already narrow, the use of atropine or any other dilator of the pupil may light up a severe glaucoma, by thicken- ing the base of the iris and thereby causing a complete blocking of the filtration angle; it is chiefly in the eyes of elderly people that this disaster is to be feared. If we examine an eye which has been recently Fig. 1.- -From the healthy fimmetropic eye of a man aged 57. For comparison with Figs. 2 and 3. blinded by acute glaucoma, we find the lens and ciliary processes pressed forward by an accumula- tion of fluid in the vitreous chamber; the pro-