92 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN side of the nucleus, and this indicates the commencement of the formation of the axis- cyHnder process or axon of the future neuron. Later, otlier processes arise from the neuroblast, the dendrites. The axons pass out through the marginal velum, and some form the ventral nerve-roots. While these changes have been going on inside the spinal cord the cells of the neural ridge or crest (line of union of the neural tube) begin to form the posterior or dorsal root ganglia; these cells arrange themselves seg- mentally at the sides of the cord, some of them (neuroblasts) take on a fusiform shape with a process extending from each end of the spindle, and one of these processes (the axon) grows inward, penetrating the marginal velum, to come into contact with the dendrites of the neuroblasts of the mantle layer. Thus the two nerve-roots of the spinal nerves are developed, the ventral ones by cell processes growing out- ward, the dorsal ones by processes growing inwai-d. Thus, also, a beginning is made with the differentiation of the cord into a grey and a white part, but as yet there is no contrast in colour, for the medullary sheaths of the nerves do not appear till the fifth month of antenatal life. So far has the development of the cord pro- gressed by the end of the fourth week that twenty-nine spinal nerves (cervical 8, dorsal 12, lumbar 5, and sacral 4) can be counted (Mall's 26 day embryo), each with a large dorsal ganglion and a ventral root. The ganglia are largest in the cervical region, and the eight cervical nerves are united by anastomoses, the future cervical and brachial plexuses. Posterior to the fourth sacral nerve, the dorsal ganglia are not fully separated from the spinal cord. During this (fourth) week there are as yet no sympathetic ganglia to be recognised ; but, from the first six dorsal nerves, branches extend towards the chorda dorsalis ; and three of these lie in front of the cceliac axis and three behind it. From these branches arise the solar plexus and the splanchnic; at any rate this view com- mends itself to embryologists, for it brings the sj'mpathetic into line with the cerebro-spinal •system as derivatives of the epiblast or ecto- derm. During development the cceliac axis comes to lie nearer the caudal extremity, and so the sympathetic twigs which surround it also lengthen. The brain during the fourth week shows a marked increase in complexity, and requires careful study. Five parts of the neural canal in the cephalic end of the embryo can now be recognised: there is first the end-brain, telen- cephalon, or hemisphere-brain ; behind it (above it topographically) is the inter-brain, 'tween- brain, diencephalon or thalamencephalon; be- hind it is the mid-brain or mesencephalon; and then follows the hind-brain or rhombencephalon. consisting of the two parts, the secondary hind- brain or metencephalon, and the after-brain or myelencephalon. Each of these parts contains a cavity. At the beginning of the foui'th week the cavity of the telencephalon is single and communicates by a wide opening with the dien- cephalon ; but towards the end of the week the hemisphere-brain is formed by two oval pro- jections whose cavities are the future lateral ventricles, and they communicate with the rest of the cavity of the telencephalon, which, to- gether with that of the diencephalon, forms the third ventricle. The openings between the latei'al ventricles and the third are at this time very wide; later they become the foramina of Monro. There is a thin strip of tissue between the foramina of Monro, which is really the anterior end of the neural tube; it is called the lamina terminalis. The cavity of the hind-brain or rhombencephalon is represented in after- development by the fourth ventricle; and the cavity of the mesencephalon, although now capacious, becomes the narrow iter, or aqueduct of Sylvius, of later dates. The mesencephalon becomes continuous with the metencephalon in a constricted portion, named the isthmus rhom- bencephali. Three flexures can now be seen in this region : the cephalic flexure in the neigh- bourhood of the mesencephalon, already noted and described in the preceding section; the cervical or nuchal bend, of which only an indication existed at the third week ; and the pontine flexure in the region of the meten- cephalon, which is a flexure simply of the ventral side of the neural tube, and does not involve the whole head as the other two bends do. In the fourth week the cephalic and cervical bends are very marked, but the pontine one is only beginning to be indicated. The walls of the nem-al tube in the region of the brain A'ary in thickness. Those of the mesencephalon and rhombencephalon are thicker than the parts anterior to them. In the myelen- cephalon the ventral wall alone thickens, the dorsal remaining very thin. The walls have the same general arrangement as in the region of the spinal cord : there is a roof-plate and a floor-plate, and between them are the thicker lateral walls which soon show the indications of a subdivision into a dorsal part or alar lamina, and a ventral part or basal lamina. These fundamental divisions of the neural tube are, before long, lost sight of in the great complexity of parts produced in the region of the brain ; but they are there, although hidden, and have much to do with the architecture of this all- important part of the body. The ganglia of some of the cranial nerves can now be recognised. At the beginning of the fourth week traces of the ganglia of the trigeminal or fifth nerve, of the auditory-facial, of the glosso-pharyngeal or ninth, and of the vagus or pneumogastric can be identified,