42 ECZEMA treatment. The irritation which accompanies anal eczema is in many cases of a very distress- ing nature, depriving the patient of sleep and appetite. It may be deeply seated, passing into the rectum. The condition is usually associated with hsemorrhoids, that is, with local disturbances of the circulation. The inflamma- tion usually passes xip the perineal groove, leading to Assuring of the epidermis. Type 1. The Leathery Amis.—Here the parts are hypertrophied and of a dull red colour, in some cases dark brown owing to the increased pigmentation. Zinc gelatine (see p. 33) is well borne in these cases, and usually gives great relief, and may effect a satisfactory cure. Examine the anus internally. Haemorrhoids and fissures must be treated on surgical principles. Type 2. The Pink Anus.— This is more ti'oublesome to treat than the leathery anus. The parts around the orifice present a bright red appearance, are very soft and tender, and are much disposed to fissure between the anal folds. The soft cedematous condition passes directly into the rectum. The itching is very persistent and is always worse at night. This variety is commonly met with in persons who are prone to rheumatism, or who suffer from some of the atypical symptoms of gout. The writer regards it as an indication of local muscular and capillary relaxation. The pink anus does not usually bear well the zinc gelatine, which fails to adhere to the hot, damp surface. A pad of zinc-ichthyol salve muslin should be inserted between the buttocks, and renewed morning and evening. All sources of rectal irritation must be carefully removed, as, for example, hard stools which necessitate straining. It is not advisable to purge unless there is evidence of intestinal irritation. A little cascara or compound liquorice powder is usually sufficient. The parts should be cleansed with a little boric lotion after stool, and the salve muslin reapplied. The deep-seated irritation may be relieved by a suppository containing a little hamamelin and opium as recommended by Malcolm Morris. Enemata are not advisable, as they usually distress the patient. Diet must be considered. High living is injurious, and all highly spiced and complex articles of food must be omitted from the patient's dietary. Malted alcoholic stimulants are more likely to disagree than good sound clarets or hocks, but the patient cannot be too careful in regard both to the quality and quantity of his stimulants. Penis.—No special description is needed, as all that has been said regarding the scrotum applies also to the penis. In some cases the prepuce is affected on its inner surface along with the glans. Scrupulous cleanliness with the use of an astringent lotion is all that is necessary to effect a cure. Vulva. — The treatment of eczema of the vulva is similar to that of the scrotum. Lotions are to be used in preference to oint- ments. Groin.—It is important not to confound the so-called eczema marginatum with simple eczema of the groin. The former is a trichophytosis which, not seldom, is marked by secondary in- flammatory symptoms due to friction and the irritation of decomposed secretions. Whenever the margin of an inflammatory patch in the groin has a sharp serpiginous outline, the proba- bility of a parasitic origin is great, and the microscope must be used to settle the diagnosis. The treatment of parasitic inflammation of the groin must be strong and energetic; most failures are due to the practitioner attempting too little. On the other hand, simple eczema of the groin requires soothing astringent treat- ment, and in the later stages slightly stimulat- ing remedies. The chief trouble is the constant tendency to the formation of fissures. Silver, lead, or alum lotions, with or without the addition of tar, are the safest remedies. Legs. — 2^ype 1. Eczema rubrum. — The essential point about this variety of eczema is the hypostatic oedema, with high degree of vascular congestion. It commonly occurs in persons whose legs are covered with a thin, imperfect cuticle which offers little or no resist- ance to the escape of the plasma. The con- dition is aggravated by increased venous pressure (Varix). As a general rule ointments should be avoided. Paint the part three times a day with calamine lotion containing 1 per cent of boric acid. When all active exudation has ceased, and the surface has become dry and scaly, stimulating agents, such as tar and subchloride of mercury, may be added to the calamine lotion in place of the boric acid. When the skin is excessively cedematous and rotten, and especially if there be suppuration, it is well to anticipate the calamine lotion treatment by the use, for a few days, of Lassar's paste with 1 per cent of salicylic or boric acid. Type 2. Indurated chronic eczema behind the knees.—Eczema has the same tendency to be- come chronic and indurated in this situation as in the bends of the elbows. The treatment is the same as for the elbows. (See Arms, p. 40). Feet.—Exactly the same types are met with here as in the hands. There is, however, a greater tendency to intertrigo between the toes, on account of the accumulation of secretion, and the pressure exerted by the coverings of the feet. Horny eczema is apt to be more chronic than on the hands. After the plaster treat- ment an oleate of mercury ointment with beta- naphthol (10-30 grains) should be rubbed in vigorously two or three times a day. In very chronic cases, or in persons who have a past history of syphilis, a papillomatous hypertrophic