284 FILARIASIS times reaches the surface at other points of the body, but such an event is comparatively rare and manifestly abnormal." Development.—According to Fedschenko the embryos undergo development in a fresh-water Cyclops. If placed in water containing the Cyclops, they attack the latter and penetrate into their body cavity, through the interarticular membrane between the abdominal plates. When swallowed by the Cyclops the filaria; are digested, whereas in the body cavity they undergo a metamorphosis which consists at first in the further development of the intestine. On the eleventh day they moult and exhibit a very changed appearance, being shorter (0'5 mm.), non-striated, etc., and in four weeks have attained a length of 1 mm. Infection experi- ments carried out by Fedschenko, whex'ein he fed dogs and cats with infected Cyclops, gave negative results. Still the opinion prevails that this is the mode of infection. Subsequently Manson was able to confirm these observations in London, where he noted a slow development of the embryos (obtained from Lascars at the Seamen's Hospital) in Cyclops obtained from ponds in London. It will be remembered that Chapotin (1810) claimed, as many have done since, that the embryos are capable of entering the body through the skin. The fact that the embryos are capable of boring their way into Cyclops is certainly suggestive, and does not render this older view as yet untenable. Plehn (1898) reports that he fed two monkeys on bananas which he had infected with embryos, and that one of these animals subsequently developed a painful tumour on the thigh, and died after eight and a half months. The tumour was found to contain a worm in all respects identical with F. medinensis, though it only measured 40 cm. in length. The experiment is certainly most suggestive, and deserves repetition. Geographical Distribution. — The worm occurs in parts of India, Persia, Bokhara, Turkestan, and Arabia, along the coast of the Red Sea, in tropical Africa (Guinea, Senegambia, Darfoor, Senaar, Abyssinia, Nubia, Egypt), in Brazil, Guiana, and Curasao, whither it was carried by negroes from Africa. Railliet draws attention to the curious fact that the worm is often found amongst carnivora in Lower Egypt, whilst it does not seem to have as yet become acclimatised to the indigenous population. Pathogenetic Effects.—Age, sex, and race exert no influence on the susceptibility to in- fection from this worm, except in so far as the chance of exposure varies according to habits of life. According to Duke the appearance of the worm is usually heralded by the appearance of a transient ui'ticaria and vomiting, whilst a sensation as of a cord beneath the skin may also be noticeable. The presence of the worm is not recognised until it appears beneath the skin, which usually takes place on the lower limbs, though the worm may also show itself on the perinseum, genitalia, trunk, arms and hands, tongue and eyelids. In addition to the effects above noted, a tumour followed by single or multiple abscesses may develop at the spot occupied by the worm, the abscesses opening spontaneously. Complications of a grave nature, septic infection, gangrene, etc., may result, making amputation of a limb necessary, or even leading to a fatal termination. If bungling attempts at extraction of the worm are made, which lead to the rupture of the worm and liberation of the contained embryos, severe con- stitutional symptoms, with the local develop- ment of abscess, sloughing, etc., may follow. In some cases the worm dies without gaining access to the surface of the skin. It may then become cretified, and in that case is best left alone (Railliet, Manson). Treatment.—Though the expulsion of tlie worm may take place spontaneously, it is in most cases necessary to extract it. This requires caution, and is best accomplished by the appli- cation of water-dressings to the part when the worm first appears. Manson recommends douch- ing the parts several times a day with cold water, as this encourages the expulsion of the embryos, and hastens the spontaneous exit of the parent worm. An old method practised in Persia and Africa, with the object of hastening the exit of the worm, consists in placing the projecting extremity of the filaria in the fork of a small split stick and gradually winding the worm out, great care being taken not to do this too rapidh', the operation taking several days. Emily has recently recommended a mode of treatment which consists in injecting a 1 :1000 solution of bichloride of mercury along the track of the worm, with the result that the filaria is killed and subsequently absorbed. Where the worm has been mechanically removed, an occlusive dressing may be applied, and either iodoform or oxide of zinc dusted over the fistulous opening. Plehn (1898) saw openings thus treated heal up in two to three days. Prophylaxis.—Water used for drinking pur- poses should be filtered or boiled. The possi- bility of infection] occurring Iwhilst bathing is to be considered.;,' VII. Filaria loa, Guyot, 1778. Syn : Dra- cunculus oculi, Dies., 1860 ; D. loa, Cobbold, 1864.—This parasite is found in the subcu- taneous areolar tissue, but may wander about the body, causing itching and local irritation when it approaches the skin. It is also found in the eyelids, or beneath the conjunctiva, causing severe pain, especially at night, together with congestion and lachrymation, inflammation often resulting from rubbing the parts. The symptoms may only last two to three days, when the filaria wanders away again, after which it may not cause any trouble again for weeks.