GANGRENE 394 Gangrene. Definitions ...... 394 Varieties— Traumatic . . . . .394 Senile ...... 395 From sudden Obstruction of Vessels . 395 Diabetic 395 Ergotism. . . . ■ .395 Symmetrical— Raynaud's Disease . . .396 Cold or Heat— Frost-bite 396 Burns {Carbolic and Gangrene). 397 Infective Gangrene . . . .397 Acicte Traumatic . . .397 Hospital . . . . .397 Cancrimi oris . . 397 Carbuncle .... 398 Gangrene in Beriberi . . 398 Treatment of Gangrene—■ General Remarks . . . .398 Points in Special Cases . . .398 See also Aneurysm (Complications, Ligature, Effects) ; Cholera, Epidemic [Symptoms); Der- matitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents, Physical); Dermatitis Traumatica bt Venenata [Feigned Eruptions, Spontaneous Gangrene); Diabetes Mbllitus (Symptoms, Com- plications, Gangrene) ; Fractures (Complica- tions) ; Glanders (Symptoms in Man); Hys- teria (Gangrene); Lungs, Gangrene op ; Neph- ritis (Chronic, Clinical Features); Post-Mortem Methods (Bacteriological Investigations, Acute spreading Gangrene) ; Raynaud's Disease ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op {Gangrene of Scrotum); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op (Morbid Anatomy, Gangrene); Skin, Bacte- riology OF (Gangrene) ; Stomatitis (Cancrum oris); Toxicology (Ergotism); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae, Gangrene). By gangrene is meant the death of a part; but inasmuch as caseation and fatty degeneration are botli forms of tissue death, and are not in- cluded under this heading, the term must be admitted to be a somewhat lax one. The older authors did not recognise that many of the phenomena they described were really due to micro-organisms grafted upon the gan- grenous part, and in consequence their descrip- tions have to be very materially altered. It must be remembered that loss of pulsation, loss of temperature, loss of sensation, function, and colour, are the sole signs of the death of a part, and that if this gangrenous portion, after being cleansed, be kept wrapped in an antiseptic dress- ing, no further change will occur in it. Bear- ing this in mind, the lengthy descriptions which we have in our older books appear very absurd. Dry and moist are two forms usually admitted by all authorities. Dry Gangrene is generally met with in old people suffering from atheroma. It is simply death with mummification, and in it the gradual contraction of the calibre of the terminal arteries and the absence of moisture render the tissues a very unsuitable soil for the growth of micro-organisms. Hence septic changes rarely affect the dead part, but the neighbouring living tissues may be the seat of severe septic changes. The part assumes, instead of a purple dark colour, a tallowy white colour, mottled here and there with brownish streaks due to disinteg- rated htemoglobin. The dead tissues become brown, then black, the whole gradually getting mummified. Moist gangrene is for the most part caused by some obstruction of the venous rather than of the arterial system, so that a complete stasis in the capillaries takes place. If the cause is on the arterial side it is due to acute arterial thrombosis, and in the moist, unlike the dry form, there is no previous narrowing of the arteries. It must be clearly understood that what is generally described as the third stage, or stage of putrefaction, does not exist as part of the gangrenous process, but is due to the presence of micro-organisms in the skin. If the skin be thoroughly disinfected immediately before its death the part will remain aseptic. Thus we recognise two forms of moist gangrene. (a) Aseptic Moist Gangrene. —The gangrenous portion, although black, green, or yellowish white, does not change its size, and is soon thrown off or absorbed without much disturb- ance to the surrounding tissues. A good ex- ample of this condition is seen in a strangulated aseptic piece of omentum. (6) Sepjtic or Putrid Moist Gangrene.—Decom- position is the chief feature in this form of gangrene. The part becomes swollen and boggy, and gives when pressed an emphysematous feel- ing. Sulphuretted hydrogen, ammonia, and other gases are formed, and give rise to bullae beneath the cuticle. The symptoms of many cases of gangrene, as described in older works, must be much altered when we recognise that the great majority of the symptoms then described were due really to the absorption of the products of micro- organisms. Practically the symptoms resolve themselves into those produced by a constitu- tional condition prior to the onset of the gan- grene pliis the local absorption of ptomaines, or septic poisoning. These constitutional conditions are most frequently some form of malnutrition, renal disease, or diabetes. Varieties op Gangrene (i.) Traumatic, or that due to injury of the vessels or tissues. It may be divided into two forms—one direct, where, so to speak, the