GANGRENE 397 all those who had became affected with gan- grene. They were in the open for sixteen days, and the presumption was that the water was heated by the body and kept the feet from freezing. Cases are related where persons have been buried in dry snow for many days without much food and recovery has taken place, but if the snow has been thawing, a very much more serious effect has been produced. This is singularly well pointed out by Larrey, the distinguished French surgeon, who, in the Russian campaign, found that tiiough none of the soldiei's suffered from many days' exposure to dry cold and frost, as soon as a thaw came a large number of both guard and line became frost-bitten. Chilblain is a less serious local effect of cold, as are chaps, fissures, and frost erythema (pernio). The lips, the ears, the fingers, and toes are the portions of the body most frequently affected. Young girls of lymphatic constitution or those who inherit an irritable nervous system are most liable to this complaint. Sudden changes of temperature are generally attributed as causes, but many people get chil- blains who never leave the house in cold weather. As in frost-bite, so in tliis disease, damp cold, as in a sudden thaw, is a much more frequent exciting cause than dry cold. An eruption of dull red patches, not well de- fined, raised, tumefied, and burning, may be followed by vesicles or bullfe. Subsequently an iilcer excavated and with thick edges may form. A peculiar viscid discharge is often present. Three degrees have been described : (1) simple congestion with itching and extreme tendei'ness ; (2) vesication; and (3) death or sloughing with or without marked erythema. Chilblain is merely an early stage of frost- bite, according to some authorities, but there is little doubt that in most cases of chilblain the nervous system, as in Raynaud's disease, plays an important part. (i) Burns.—It is in the last three degrees of burns and scalds that the effects produce gan- grene. In these three we find that sloughs have to be removed before the healing process can take place. These effects will depend on the source, duration, and intensity of the heat. (viii.) Gamjrene due to the use of carbolic acid is met with under dressings of this acid. It is of the di'y variety, and affects the fingers and toes for the most part. Apparently it is more often met with after the prolonged application of weak solutions, and is not so often seen after the application oi pure carbolic acid. A weak terminal circulation should contra- indicate the use of carbolic acid dressings. The American authorities speak of as many as one case of carbolic gangrene in 1000 surgical cases, but this is certainly not the experience in this country. Personally I have seen only one case of gangrene that could be certainly traced to the use of carbolic acid. Multiple gangrene of the skin occurs inde- pendent of the use of carbolic acid. Blebs occur in many parts, and afterwards numerous small particles of skin die. The nervous system is sup- posed to i)lay an important part in this disease. (ix.) Infective gangrene, or the gangrene due to tlie presence of micro-organisms.—This is a most important heading, and one which in- cludes such diseases as glanders, plague, beri- beri, hospital and acute spreading traumatic gangrene, etc. (rt) Spreading traumatic or acute traumatic gniigrene is an extremely rapid and very often fatal form, due to a micro-organism, the bacillus of malignant oedema, first isolated by Koch. It is closely allied to symptomatic antlirax in cattle. The bacillus of malignant a'dema is rod-shaped, somewhat like anthrax, but more slendei'. It is capable, even in a test-tube, of forming hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen. It grows very readily in nmsk, and is foxnid in garden earth. llie course of the disease is very rapid. It, as a rule, appears from two to three days after a severe accident, generally a compound fracture or a compound dislocation, but it may occur after a small inoculation. It is usually fatal in three or four days if very active measures are not adopted. As a general rule it is predisposed to by drunkenness which has been long con- tinued, as for instance in barmen and brewers' draymen. The limb becomes hard, tense, white, and oodematous, but soon goes on to a dusky red and then livid colour. There is gas, chiefly hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen, evolved, and crackling is present; at the same time the constitutional symptoms are very severe, and delirium soon supervenes. (h) Hospital gangrene and wound phageda3iia are now very rarely seen. I have never seen a case, but before hospital wards were so well ventilated and antiseptic precautions taken it was a common enough disease. A pseudo- membranous slough forms within eight hours to three or four days of the infliction of a wound ; the granulations, if present, become ashy grey. The surface of the wound is dry and the edges pale. Then either an ulcerative or gangrenous process follows. In the gangrenous form the disease is often fatal in from twenty-four to forty- eight hours. (c) Cancrmn oris or Noma.—Under this head- ing we have to deal with a very fatal disease which occurs in children from two to seven years of age, and in most cases after measles or scarla- tina, especially the former. On the gum or im- mediately inside the cheek an ulcer occurs, which at first is slimy and white, but soon becomes gangrenous ; a black spot appears on the outside I of the cheek and rapidly spreads, so that the