FRACTURES 349 united fracture, for delayed union or non-union is least often seen in the ])ractice of those who are most careful to keep the ends of the bone quiet and in apposition. Sliglit rotatory move- ments of the ends of the bone upon each other do not seem to influence the process of repair, but hinge movements may entirely prevent it. For this reason care must be exercised in treat- ing children's fractures by plaster of Paris band- ages, especially in cases of broken leg. Their limbs soon shrink from disuse, and a plaster case which fitted admirably at first may become too large in the course of a week, free move- ment being thus allowed between the ends of tlie bone. The result is most disastrous, the bones atrojahy, all attempts to cause union fail, and the limb becomes so useless as to require amputation. The prognosis in adults is better, for delayed union may often be remedied by- putting up the fracture more securely and for a longer period, whilst non-union may be treated successfully by wiring or otherwise keeping the two ends of the bone in accurate apposition. Complications.—The complications of frac- ture are very numerous, and it is only possible here to allude to some of the most common and important. Amongst the general complications are shock, exhaustion, collapse from lisemor- rliage, delirium, oedema of the lungs, and bed- sores. Amongst the local complications of frac- ture are the various conditions which tend to convert a simple into a compound fracture, and foremost amongst these are sharp ends and ex- cessive bruising of the skin, with so much extra- vasation of blood into the sulicutaneous tissues as leads to sloughing. A large extravasation of blood may therefore be laid open with advan- tage, the blood being washed out and the skin afterwards brought together with interrupted sutures. Other local complications which re- quire the attention of the surgeon ai'e coexist- ing dislocations and injuries to nerves, arteries, and veins at the seat of fracture. Osteomye- litis, necrosis, pyjemia, and infective or spread- ing gangrene are more especially complications of compound fractures. Gangrene may occur from a variety of causes, constitutional as well as local. It may be infective from the presence of a micro-organism, in which case it is usually fatal, or it may be associated with diabetes or other disease leading to general debility. On the other hand, mortification after a fracture may be purely mechanical in its origin. It is then associated with severe bruising, with acute inflammation in badly-nourished tissues, or to pressure of bandages unduly exercised. Care must bo taken, however, in these cases to elim- inate otiier causes before the surgeon commits himself to an opinion that the gangrene has been produced by the pressure of splints or bandages applied by another person. I well remember the case of a man who had broken his ulna, in which tlie house surgeon was blamed for allowing such a catastrophe to occur. Sub- sequent dissection showed that the radial artery had been tied years before on account of a punc- tured wound, and that the ulnar had been pressed upon by the broken end of the bone until the blood-supply had become insufficient for the needs of the part. Some clotting of the blood in the torn veins and medullary sinuses takes place after every fracture, and if the tlirombosis is extensive it is an important factor in the oedema which is so troublesome a complication of many fractures. Portions of the clot may be carried away and may lodge as emboli in the smaller bi'anches of the pulmonary and cerebral vessels. These emboli have been observed at various times after the fracture, but they are most common between the twenty-second and thirty-seventh day after the injury. When the medulla of the bone has been extensively crushed, or when it has been softened by inflammation, portions of liquefied fat may be carried to the lungs, brain, and spinal cord, where they block the capillaries and form " fat emboli." These fat emboli are not to be mistaken for the post-mortem clots containing fat globules which are sometimes seen in the bodies of persons who have liad diabetes. The true fat emboli are generally found where there has been much crushing of the bone associated with large openings in the veins, and so with extensive extravasations of blood. They are produced earlier than the ordinary embolus from thrombosis, so that the symptoms are generally observed within a few days of the fracture. Their presence is marked by transient attacks of dyspnoea, irregular action of the heart, slight haemoptysis, and Cheyne- Stokes breathing. Collapse with marked pallor of the skin and mucous membrane soon ensues, with spasms of various kinds, or bilateral paralyses and a diminution of reflex irritability. The chest is free from duhiess or rales. The temperature varies so much in the different cases recorded that it is useless as a guide. No secondary abscesses are formed, but fat has been detected occasionally in the urine. Packai'd thinks that such a condition should be treated by the intravenous injection of ether and by the administration of diffusible stimulants. Muscular spasms occurring in the injured limb are often a very painful complication of fracture. They appear about the sixth or seventh day after the injury, and are especially troublesome at night. They are most often caused by some slight error in setting or fixing tlie broken bones, and tliey can often be cured by taking the injured limb off the sjflint and carefully readjusting it. If they persist in spite of local treatment a suspicion of chronic alco- liolism, or of an imstable nervous system, may cross the mind of the surgeon. In very excep- tional cases muscular spasms herald the coming of tetanus.