65 ELECTRICITY cane or webbing, and the kathode placed close to the soles of the feet. Bath treatment is wasteful of current, only one-eighth of the current passing through the patient. The water should be warm, 99° or 100° F. The fai'adic current is most useful for neuras- thenic pains, and the coarse coil or primary current may be used, but the interruptions should be rapid. For rheumatism, chlorosis, and general metabolic effects, the continuous or l:)attery cuiTent is more likely to be successful. It may, however, cause throbbing of the head and faintness when strong currents are being used. Since seven-eighths of the current ai'e wasted in the water, the galvanometer in the circuit must indicate from 150 to 200 m.a. to ensure a current of 20 m.a. passing through the patient. The current should be turned on gradually, and care taken to avoid shock. Dangers of Hifjh Tension Currents.—Currents at pressure over 500 volts are known as high tension, and are very dangerous to handle. Accidents are not liable to happen inside build- ings, beca^ise the voltage is always reduced to safe limits, but in electric liohting stations, in the operation of changing transformers, and in working with overhead wires, a sudden shock at 2000 or 5000 volts pressure often proves fatal through syncope, and bad burns often result, even if there is recovery. Accidental contact with low pressure of 100 or 200 volts is not dangerous, though extremely awkward shocks may be given. In treating patients from the main, a safety resistance should always be in- cluded in the circuit, such as an eight-candle lamp, which will not allow more than 300 milli- amperes to pass. It is not imusual to hear the continuous current spoken of as the low tension, and the alternating as the high tension current. A current of 100 volts pressure and 1000 amperes volume gives the same number of kilowatts or electric horse power as a current of 10 amjjeres at 10,000 volts. Either current may be pro- duced at high tension, depending on the con- struction of the dynamo, and recently some electric light installations have been built for high tension continuous current, as that at Oxford, which supplies current of 1000 volts pressure. This voltage is too high for direct supply to the consumer, and therefore trans- formers have to be used to lower the voltage to 200 or 100 volts. This is jDerformed by motor rotary transformers, built as combined motor and dynamo, differing from the stationary trans- formers of the alternating current supply. In this country all cables are laid underground, with the exception of some tramway and railway lines, but in America and on the Continent overhead wires, even for high tension currents, are not imcommon, increasing the risk of acci- dents from collapse of buildings or supports. The continuous current is often supplied to VOL. m tlie mains on the three-wire system, two outer and one inner wires. Workmen sometimes get severe shocks by touching the two "outers," getting a "short," or short circuit. Up to 250 volts, after the momentarj' sliock there may be faintness, pallor, haziness of vision, tremor, and loss of nerve for a day or two. With higher pressures of 2000 volts and ujDwards death from failure of heart or respiration may be instan- taneous, and this fact has been made use of in America for the electrocution of criminals. Death is not a constant result, however, and though severe convulsions are produced at the time of contact, the patient may ultimately recover with no worse result than a bad burn. Experimental results on dogs by Prevost and Battelli with alternating currents showed death from heart failure with shocks at 120 volts pressure, but with high tension currents of 1200, 2500, and 4800 volts, tetanus and con- vulsions were produced, and respiratory failure, but the animals could be saved by artificial respiration. In view of these results, and the occasional recovery of human beings after shocks at these high pressures, it would be extremely desirable in all cases of apparent death from electric shock or lightning stroke to make use of arti- ficial respiration at the earliest possible moment as a desperate remedy. Electro-. — in compound words electro- (Gr. i'jXiKTfMv, amber) has the meaning of " relating to electricity." Electro-hioscopy, for instance, means the examination of a body by electricity in order to ascertain if life be extinct (viz. by absence of muscular contractions); electro-anrt'sthesia is the loss of the electric sen- sations {vide Hysteria) ; electro-biology is the science of animal electricity, of electricity in living bodies, or, in a special sense, " animal magnetism " or hypnotism ; the electro-cautery is the galvanic cautery {vide Galvanic Cautery) ; electrociition (electrical execution) is the use of the electric current for the execution of criminals, as employed in the United States of America ; an electrode is one of the poles of a galvanic batteiy, or the terminal of the open electric circuit; electro-diagnosis is the use of electricity for the purposes of the recognition and distinc- tion of diseases ; electro-dentistry is the employ- ment of electricity in dentistry (e.g. electro- cataphoresis, vide Teeth) ; electro-endoscojiy is endoscopy carried out with the aid of the electric light; electro-hcemostasis is arrest of bleeding by the electric current; electro-massage is kneading a part (e.g. a limb) with a roller and a small galvanic machine ; electro-medication is the use of electricity for medical purposes, and, in a special sense, the introduction of medicines into the system by means of electricity ; electro- 2?athology is the investigation of morbid con- ditions by the testing of the electrical reactions.