342 FEACTURES Oscalcis); Bone, Diseases of (Spontaneous Fractures); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Tears, Causes); Brain, Surgery of (Injuries to B^'ain, in Fractures); Chest, In- juries of (Fractures of Bibs, Sternum) ; Elbow- Joint, Injuries of (Fractures) ; Hip-Joint, Injuries of (Fractures of Hip) ; Joints, Diseases of (Neuro - arthropathies) ; Kneb- JoiNT, Injuries of (Fractures in Vicinity of Knee); Malingering (Fractures) ; Medicine, Forensic ( Wounds and Injuries) ; Meninges of THE Cerebrum (hiflammation. Pachymeningitis, Causes); Mouth, Injuries of the Jaw (Frac- tures) ; Orbit, Injuries of (Fractures of Walls); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Bone, Delayed Union in Fractures) ; Pregnancy, Intra-Uterine Diseases (Fractures of Foetus); Rickets (Complications, Fractures) ; Shoulder, Injuries (Fractures); Spine, Surgical Affec- tions (Fractures); Trades, Dangerous (Phos- phorus Poisoning and Match-Making, Fractures) ; Wrist-Joint, Injuries (Fractures). It is impossible within the compass of this article to do more than bare justice to such an important surgical subject as the fracture of bones. Space, however, can be found to fill in the outline and to draw attention to the advances which improvements in physical methods have rendered possible in diagnosis, and to the changes which Listerian surgery has introduced into their treatment. Causes.—The causes of fractures are either predisposing or determining. The predisposing causes are those abnormal conditions which lead to the atrophy of bone or to alterations in its consistency. Chief amongst them are rickets, syphilis, tubercle, and scurvy; new grovvths, either primary and sarcomatous, or secondary and carcinomatous, especially when they grow within the bone and weaken it by expansion ; hydatids, and such physiological causes as old age, pregnancy, usually about the seventh month, and that interference with the blood- supply to the bone which is often associated with long-continued disuse. Some affections of the central nervous system are also predisposing causes of fracture, the best known being locomotor ataxy, progressive muscular atrophy, disseminated sclerosis, paraplegia, general paralysis, and the congenital defects of the central nervous system associated with hydro- cephalus. There is also a constitutional brittle- ness of bone (osteopsathyrosis or fragilitas ossium) about which we know but little, except that it is sometimes hereditary, and is trans- mitted strictly in the male or female line. The determining cause of a fracture is always injury, the violence acting either directly upon the bone, as when the ribs are broken by a kick from a horse, or indirectly, when they yield to pressure applied simultaneously to the sternum and the backbone, as often happens in a crowd. The amount of force required to break a bone varies very greatly, and the result sometimes appears to be out of all proportion to the cause, as in cases where a slight slip produces a severe compound fracture, comminuting the bone and lacerating the tissues, whilst in other cases the application of a much greater force may only cause a simple fracture. Such a variation seems to depend in part upon the direction in which the force is applied to the bone. A cylindrical bone resists to perfection a pull in its long axis or a weight applied in its diameter, but it offers very little resistance to a twist and still less to flexion, for there is no doubt that muscular action is able to break even so stout a bone as the humerus. Indirect violence causes as many fractures as when the force is applied directly to the bone, but its results are very capricious. Thus a fall upon the hand may lead to a Colles' fracture at the wrist, to a fracture of both bones of the forearm, the ulna in the lower third, and the radius at a higher level; to a backward dislocation of the elbow; to a fracture of the hiimerus in its lower third, or the arm may escape entirely, the clavicle being broken obliquely at the junction of the middle and outer third. A fall upon the feet in like manner may cause a variety of fractures more or less distant from the legs, until it culminates in a fracture of the base of the skull. Congenital fractures occur from time to time, many, of course, produced during birth, but others —the truly intra-uterine — have taken place during gestation, for they may be found to have repaired themselves before delivery. Some of the intra-uterine fractures are undoubtedly the result of injury to the mother's abdomen, as in intra-uterine fractures of the leg, femur, and clavicle; others again are associated with embryonic malformation, whilst yet others are spontaneous in the sense that no adequate cause can be assigned for their occurrence. The classification of fractures has under- gone recently a very remarkable change. It was all-important for the older surgeons to discriminate between simple fractures, where the skin remained unbroken, and compound fractures, where the ends of the broken bone were exposed either directly or indirectly to the air. A simple fracture healed with them as it does now : a compound fracture always meant prolonged suppuration, and was too often the cause of death to the patient. Aseptic surgery has changed all this, and we now make a fracture compound with as little hesitation as we incise tissues elsewhere. Primary compound fractures, however, are still of grave prognosis, especially when they involve the larger joints, for it is impossible in many cases to render them surgically sterile. Our main classification, therefore, has become anatomical, and a fracture is grouped, first according to its position, and