167 EPIPHYSES compound ; in the latter the end of the shaft is usually stripped of periosteum, and protrudes through the skin. Separation of the epiphysis may be complicated with partial, often splintered fracture of the adjacent shaft, or with fracture of the epiphysis itself, with injury to blood- vessels, nerves, muscles, tendons; separation of the lower femoral epiphysis is a good example of one attended with injury to the adjacent (popliteal) vessels and nerves. The violence causing separation of epiphysis is usually indirect, such as falling on the feet or hands from a height, entanglement of the limb in the wheel of a vehicle, violent traction on the limb, attempting the reduction of deformities, e.g. that left by tuberciilar disease of the knee. They may also result from direct violence. The frequency as to age varies with the individual epiphysis, but the majority are met with be- tween the ages of 11 or 12 and 18 years. The adjoining table of the times of union of the different epiphyses is copied from Poland's valuable work :— Upper epiphysis of rajius . . At the ICitli year. Olecranon epiphysis of ulna . . Between 16th and 17th yeai'S. The lower epiphysis of humerus . At the 17th year. The internal epicondyle of humerus At the 18th year. Phalanui'S of toes .... Between 17th and 20th years. I'lialan^.'s of linij;ers . . . Between 18th and 20th years. Lower cjiiphysis of ulna . . Between 18th and 20th years. Metacarpals About the 20th year. Upper epiphysis of humerus. . Between 18th and 22nd years. Lower epiphysis of radius . . Between 1 nth and 23rd years. E])iphysis of clavicle . . . Between 22nd and 25th years. Ijesser troelianter . . . .At the 18th year. Great trochanter .... Between 18th and 19th years. Metatarsals Betw(«n lilth and 20th years. Head of femur . . . .At the 19th year. Lower e|iijihysis of tibia . . Between 18th and 19th years. l.Dwrr epiphysis of fibula . . Between 19th and 21st years. Uppi'r I'pijiliysis of fibula . . Between 20th and 22nd years. Uppi'r epiphysis of tibia . . Between 21st and 22nd years. Lower epiphysis of femur . . Between 20tli and 23rd years. The order of frequency obtained from recorded cases is as follows :—(1) The lower femoral, (2) the lower radial, (3) the upper humeral, (4) the lower humeral, (5) the lower tibial, (6) the upper tibial epiphysis. The male sex shows an enor- mous preponderance, doubtless from the greater exposure to injury between the ages of 11 and 18, during which jDcriod the majority of separa- tions occur. The repair of the injury is usually quite satisfactory ; non-union is extremely rare; de- formity from vicious union, exuberant callus interfering with an adjacent joint, and inter- ference with the subsequent growth of the bone involved, are exceptional. Pathological or spontaneous separation, of epiphyses, like spontaneous fractures, are the result of diseased conditions, which in the case of the former are chiefly localised at the ep)i- physial junctions; they include rickets, scurvy, inherited syphilis, snppu7-ation, tuberculosis, and mrcoina, and need not be further referred to in this place, as they are described under separate heads (Bones, Joints, and the Individual Joints). EpiphysiOlySiS. — Separation of an epi- physis from a long bone. See Epiphyses. Epiphysitis.—Inflammation of an epi- physis. See Bone, Diseases of (Pyogenic, Suppurative Osteo-myelitis); Bone, Diseases of {SypMlitic Diseases, Epiphysitis or Osteo- chondritis sypkilitica); Hip-Joint, Diseases OF {Syphilitic); Paralysis {Acute Anterior Polio-myelitis, Diagnosis from Acute Ejn- physitis). Epiphyte.—An ectoparasite of a vegetable nature. See Skin, Parasites ; Favu.s ; etc. EpiplOCele.—Hernia containing omen- tum. See Hernia {Structure, Contents). EpipJoon.—The omentum. Epipiopexy.—An ojjeration in which the omentum is fixed to the abdominal wall; it has been employed in ascites due to hepatic cirrhosis. Episcleritis —Inflammation of the sub- conjunctival connective tissue. See Sclerotic, Diseases of {Ejnscleritis) ; Gout {Irregular, Eye). EpisiOCeie.—Hernia of the vulva or jjudenda. EpisiOCSeisiS.—Closure of the vulva by the setting up of labial adhesions, e.g. in in- curable cases of vesico-vaginal fistula. Episiorrhaphy and Episio-peri- neOI-rhaphy.—Plastic operations for the repair of the vulva or of the vulva and perineum in cases of prolapsus uteri. See Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor (Prolapsus Uteri, Treatment). Episiotomy.—The making of an incision (unilateral) or of incisions (bilateral) in the vulvar margin in order to allow the birth of the head in labour and to prevent rupture of the perineum in the middle line. See Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs (Injuries to the Perineum, Prevention). Epispadias.—An open condition of the urethral canal, the upper wall being defective and there being a fissure in the dorsum penis; a similar condition may be found in the female urethra, but much more limited in its extent on account of the shortness of the urethra in women ; this malformation is often associated with extroversion of the bladder. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Malformations); Hermaphroditism ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Sterility); Urethra, Dise.a.ses of {Ahnormalities, Epispadias); Uterus, Mal- formations of. EpispastiCS.—Substances which when applied to the skin cause blisters; vesicants (Gr. €7rt, outwards, and a-n-deu; to draw). See Cantharides ; Pharmacology ; Prescribing.