ECLAMPSIA, NEW THEORIES OF ORIGIN AND METHODS OF TREATMENT 9 the loug-looked-for explanation and cure of this disastrous malady or group of maladies. Theory of I'hyroid Inadequacy. — This theory had its origin in Lange's observations published in 1899 {Ztschr. f. Geburtsh. it. Gyndk. xl. 34, 1899). Beginning with the fact of the enlargement of the thyroid gland in pregnancy, Lange noted that in twenty out of twenty-two cases in which this normal hyper- trophy was absent there was albuminuria; he noted that thyroidin given to pregnant women in whom thyroid hypertrophy had occurred cavised diminution in the size of the gland ; diminution in size also followed the administra- tion of thyroidin in a case in which there was pathological enlargement of the gland; and it was found that iodothyrin given to j^atients suffering from the nephritis of pregnancy was the cause of diuresis although the albuminuria was not much lessened. These observations led Oliphant Nicholson, in October 1900, to test the effect of thyroid extract in eclampsia [Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxvi. 188 et seq. 1900-1901), in one case under the care of Dr. Elmslie Henderson, and in another in the Edinburgh Maternity Hospital under Dr. Ballantyne ; later, Nicholson reported four additional instances of the use of thyroid extract in eclampsia and albuminuria {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxvii. 160, 1901-1902). This theory proceeds upon the assumptions that there is always a toxaemia in pregnancy (the result of foetal metabolism), that this state is more marked towards the close of gestation (causing increased blood tension and cardiac hypertrophy), that errors of diet, etc. may at any time so increase the toxic condition as to cause convulsions, and that although the toxfemia is constant the toxic agent causing the convulsions may differ, and may in some instances be produced by thyroid inadequacJ^ So long as the kidneys are able to eliminate the toxines no grave symptoms will result, but any checking (especially a sudden one) of the renal functions will j^i'oduce evil consequences. Dr. Nicholson discussed the pre - eclamptic symptoms and signs (oedema, albuminuria, diminution in the secretion of urine, high arterial tension, headache, eye conditions, diarrlia?a, and muscular twitchings), and maintained that they were all explicable on the theory of thyroid inadequacy. He thought, also, that through defect of the thyroid secretion the action of the suprarenal glands might be permitted to become excessive, leading to con- striction of arterioles (especially those of the kidney) and increased blood pressure, that the formation of urea ("the most powerful diuretic substance with which we are acquainted ") would be diminished and the quantity of urine be lessened, and that the liver, being unable to cope with the untransformed proteids sent to it, would also become inadequate. These factoi's would combine to produce eclampsia. For the treatment of eclampsia and the pre- eclampsic state, Nicholson, therefore, recom- mended and practised the use of thyroid extract in combination with morphia; the morphia was employed for its immediate effect in checking the convulsions, and was given in a dose of half a grain (repeated once or even twice) hypo- dermically, and the thyroid could be ad- ministered before the convulsions or between them (if the patient was able to swallow). The hypodei'mic injection of the liquor thyroidei might be tried. The dose of thyroid extract ought to be a large one, and tlie drug may be given till symptoms of thyroidism appeal'. The effects of this treatment are to relax arterial spasm, to tenqjorarily arrest general metabolism, and so give the thyroid gland time to recover its functions, to supply artificial iodothyrin to counteract the synqjtoms due to its deficiency, and to supply iodine for the elaboration of iodothyrin in the thyroid gland itself. The occasional good effects of iodide of potash in the treatment of eclampsia were ascribed by Nicholson to the fact that iodine is a constitu- ent of the thyroid secretion. In a later paper {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxvii. 160, 1902) Dr. Nicholson brought forward further evidence to show the beneficial effects of thyroid extract in eclampsia, and stated again his belief that some cases of this malady were due to inadequacy of the thyroid and parathyroid glands. In still more recent articles (Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxviii. 84, 1903; xxix. 50, 1904; xxxi. 225, 1906) the subject was further elaborated, and the doses of the thyroid extract increased till in one case of eclampsia Nicholson gave 85 grains in twenty-three hours, followed by 20 grains per diem for three days, and 10 grains per diem for seven days longer. In connection with this subject Fotliergill {Trans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxix. 41, 1904) has reported a case of maternal eclampsia in which tiie foetus, at birth, was found to have hyper- trophy of the thyroid gland ; the patient was under the influence of chlorate of potash during her pregnancy, and for ten days or so before her labour she had thyroid extract (10 grains daily). In this case the question may be hazarded whether the hypertrophy of the foetal thyroid had been in any way an attempt by nature to secure amelioration of the inadequacy of tiie maternal thyroid secretion 1 Other contributions to the subject have been made by Linn {2'rans. Edin. Ohstet. Soc. xxviii. 78,1903), by Buist {Jhid. xxix. 157, 1904), by Fruhinsholz and Jeandelize {Fresse med. Oct. 25, 1902), by Sturmer {Journ. Ohst. Gyn. Brit. Empire, v. 531, 1904), Macnab {Ihid. vi. 386, 1904), Baldowsky {Vratch. xi. 1904), (iomot {Ann. mt-d.-cltir. dii centre, Jan. 15, 1905), and Vassale {Eiv. crit. di din. med. March 4, 1905). Before passing from this theory and its thera- peutic application, I may state that while there