EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 82 small structures in comparison with the chorionic vesicle. The embryo, measuring about 1-5 mm. in length, consists of a mass of cells lying between the amniotic sac and the umbilical vesicle, and continuous at its caudal end with the Haftstiel or umbilical stalk. In it can be recognised a j^i'imitive streak (thickening of ■epiblast cells), and in front of it a canal (the iieurenteric) by which the amniotic sac com- municates with the archenteron which is now showing signs of division into an intra-embryonic part (the gut tract), and an extra-embryonic part (the umbilical vesicle). In front of the opening of the neurenteric canal is the medul- lary plate with the two medullary folds forming Figs. 7, 8.—Diagrammatic section of two early h\iman ova. Enlarged 10 time.s. About half of each is represented, and the villi are outlined over only a part of the ovum. E., Rauber's layer; a., amniotic sac; u.v., umbilical vesicle; ec, ecto- derm ; en., entoderm; mes., mesoderm; all., allantois ; c, notochord ; n.c, neur- enteric canal; H., position of heart. (After Graf Spee and Mall.) the medullary groove which is not yet converted into a canal. These parts are formed by a thickening and an infolding of the epiblast; similarly on the ventral surface there is an infolding of hypoblast which gives rise to the notochord, which is at first a hollow rod of cells communicating at its posterior end with the neurenteric canal. In some of the specimens said to be of the age we are now considering, namely, end of second week after impregnation, there are indications of five or seven pro- tovertebrse (the primitive segments of Minot, Urwirbel of the Germans) in the mesoblast near the notochord. There may also be a trace of the anlage of the heart near the cephalic end of the embryo in the form of two tubes in the mesoblast. According to Graf Spee there is, about this time, a small diverticulum from the single cavity of the gut tract and umbilical vesicle into the Bauchstiel, which he regards as the beginning of the allantoic duct (Fig. 8). Vessels also can be recognised in the wall of the umbilical vesicle; it is not clear that these yet communicate in any way with the heart rudiment to constitute a vitelline circulation. In Eternod's specimen (Anat. Anz., xv. 181, 1898) there was a curious, hitherto undescribed vein in the caudal part of the umbilical vesicle ("anse veineuse vitelline"); there was also a single allantoic vein due to the fusion of the original two veins. Such is, perhaps, as complete a picture as we can yet form of the appearance of the chorionic vesicle and its contents at this period of antenatal life. It leaves, of course, much to be desired. We know nothing of the changes taking place in the human ovum as it comes down the Fallopian tube. We know not how it develops its thick covering of epiblast cells or trophoblast. We can only suppose that soon after its arrival in the uterus it is furnished with a covering, apparently pos- sessing all the cellular activity of an epithelioma, by means of which it eats its way into the mucosa of the uterus. While it has all the cellular activity of an epithelioma (and more), it, however, has not the unrestrained or ill-regulated mode of growth of such a tumour, for very soon an orderly develop- ment of parts begins to be evident, and a primitive placenta is evolved, while embryonic membranes, vesicles, and structures commence to apj^ear. From the point of view of the antenatal pathologist it is much to be regretted that there is no specimen showing how, in the human subject, the amniotic sac is formed and how the umbilical vesicle arises, for these are structures which are supposed to have much to do with the origin of teratological conditions. In the earliest known human ovum both these structures are already present, and they give no indication as to their ontogenesis. The question of the age and size of human embryos is a very difficult one. F. P. Mall's settlement of it is the best that we have at the present time. Mall {Johns Hopkins llosp. Bull., xiv. 29, 1903) has found that for embryos of from one to one hundred millimetres in length their ages can be fairly correctly estimated by midtiplying the length in milli- metres by one hundred, and then extracting the square root, when the result will be the age in days. The formula is ^ 100 x length in mm. = age in days. For foetuses of from 100 to 220 mm. in length, the length in millimetres ecjuals the age in days. It is useful to remember the following leading facts, which are fairly