FCETUS AND OVUM, 322 DEVELOPMENT OF salts administered to the mother may be detected in the liquor amnii. The value of this observation is, however, somewhat invali- dated by the fact that in a proportion of the experiments the salts were also discovered in the foetal urine, so that they may have reached the liquor amnii, not directly from the maternal vessels, but through the medium of the fcetal circulation. The question must be regarded as unsettled at the present time. Liquor amnii is a clear, pale fluid resembling a serous fluid in its general characters and composition. Its specific gravity is low (1006 to 1008), its reaction alkaline, and its com- position, according to Hoppe - Seyler, is as follows: — Per cent. Water 98-41 Albumin . . . . 0-19 Inoi'ganic salts . . . 0"59 Extractives . . . . 0'81 100-00 The amount of albumin varies at different periods of gestation. At the fourth month there is as much as 10-77 per cent (Vogt and Scherer). Gradually the proportion diminishes, until at term it is considerably under 1 per cent, although Hoppe-Seyler's figures are lower than those of most other observers. The most im- portant extractive is urea, but of this there is no more than is usually found in serous fluids. Prochownik found it as early as the sixth week of gestation. It probably comes from the foetal skin and kidneys, at any rate in the later months of gestation. Various matters in suspension, chiefly skin products, such as lanugo hairs, epidermal scales, and masses of vernix caseosa, are also foimd in it. Its amount at the end of gestation varies greatly, but is seldom more than fifty or less than ten ounces. The function of the amniotic fluid is mainly protective. It assists in the maintenance of a constant temperature, diminishes the risks of injury from without, equalises pressure, allows of the free movements of the foetus in utero, and during labour cleanses the passages by flushing them from within. When deficient in amount, pressure of the uterus upon the child may lead to the formation of adhesions and . resulting deformities. It is probable, also, that it may be swallowed by the foetus, and thus become a source of water-supply. It is interest- ing to recall the fact that Harvey observed that the embryo chick swallowed its liquor amnii, and similar observations were made by Haller, but no recent confirmation of this statement is to hand. The presence of lanugo hairs, epi- dermal scales, and particles of fat in the meconium of the human foetus is certainly not uncommon, and occasionally hair balls com- posed of lanugo have been found in the foetal stomach on post - mortem examination. The presence of these substances in the intestinal ti'act can only be explained by the assumption that they have been carried thither by the liquor amnii. In any case it can hai'dly be important as a source of nutriment, but it may well be useful in supplying part of the water required by the foetal tissues. The Umbilical Cord.—The development of this structure has been already described. In the earlier months of gestation it is composed of two arteries, two veins, the allantois, the umbilical vesicle with its duct, and the meso- blastic tissues of the ventral stalk. The coelom or body-cavity is also prolonged into it, and a knuckle of gut may be contained within the cord at its foetal extremity. The umbilical vesicle soon disappears with its omphalo-mesen- teric duct. It is stated that a trace of the umbilical vesicle may be found in the cord at term, in the form of a minute yellowish body, placed at its placental insertion. Then the coelom closes and the allantois disappears, but traces of the latter in the form of an epithelial tubule may be found in the cord up to the third or fourth month. Then the two veins fuse to form a single channel, the arteries re- maining distinct. Sometimes permanent non- closure of the coelom occurs, giving rise to the condition known as exomphalos. The coats of the arteries and veins are of much the same thickness, and both arteries and veins are pro- vided with valves (Kollmann). The substance of the cord consists of a loose connective tissue of gelatinous consistence named Wharton's jelly. This tissue is irregularly disposed round the vessels, making the cord of unequal thick- ness, and giving rise to protuberances or " false knots" at dift'erent parts, which are generally found to contain in addition a loop of the vessels. The epithelial covering of the cord consists of stratified cubical cells in the earlier months, but at term there is usually only a single layer. Torsion of the vessels is evident as early as the third month; the arteries become twisted round the vein, usually from left to right. There is no satisfactory explana- tion of this occurrence. From exaggerated torsion the cord may be nipped nearly in two ; but this is usually now regarded as a post- mortem phenomenon, and not as the cause of death of the foetus. Its occurrence is confined to aborted ova. The cord varies in length from 5 to 60 inches, the average being from 18 to 24 inches. When very long the foetus may slip through a loop, causing a true knot; the effect of this accident upon the circulation is not serious. In the case of twins with long cords very complicated knotting and interlace- ment may occur. Loops of the cord are also frequently wound around some part of the body of the foetus, such as the neck or limbs. According to Braun this may cause strangula-