FALLOPIAN TUBES 248 closed must be clearly understood. For long it lias been believed that hydrosalpinx and pyo- salpinx were simply the later stages of salpingitis without obstruction. Recent observations tend to prove that either condition may be primary. The ostium is obstructed in two different ways. The fimbrise may be sealed up from without {perimetritic dosut'e). On the other hand, the ostium may be closed from within by thickening of the mucous and muscular coats around it, they unite over the thickened and shortened fimbriae (salpingitic closure). This is the manner by which the tube becomes closed in salpingitis. The uterine end of the tube is blocked partly by thickening of the mucous membrane, partly through kinking of the tube against its uterine attachment, or through the pressure of inflam- matory adhesions from without. Hydrosalpinx (drospy of the tube, sactosalpinx serosa) signifies dilatation of the distended tube by a non-purulent fluid other than blood. In some instances it undoubtedly arises from sal- pingitic closure of the ostium, in other words, as the direct result of salpingitis according to the older theory. In cases of perimetritic closure of the ostium, on the other hand, hydro- salpinx may be primary as far as the tube is concerned, and often not a trace of inflammatory change can be detected in the mucous or mus- cular coat. The tube dilates greatly, and assumes the form of a retort; as it dilates it opens up the mesosalpinx till it touches the ovary. The epithelium is not destroyed, but becomes flat, losing its cilia. Any form of hydrosalpinx may be infected, usually through intestinal adhesions. Primary hydrosalpinx is often associated with uterine myoma from pres- sure effects and irritation of the peritoneum, and is then apt to suppurate. A large hydrosalpinx is often mistaken for a tubo-ovarian cyst, as will be explained. Bland-Sutton believes that hydrosalpinx represents an old pyosalpinx, on the ground that hydrosalpinx is sometimes found in one tube and pyosalpinx in the other, but Menge points out that pus can inspissate, but never changes into a serous fluid, whilst the structure of the wall of a hydrosalpinx often shows that it could not have been the seat of suppuration. Catarrhal salpingitis in one tube and purulent salpingitis in its fellow are not unknown ; should the catarrhal tube undergo perimetritic closure, the consequent hydro- salpinx might be mistaken for the product of a pyosalpinx. Pyosalpinx (sactosalpinx purulenta) signifies the dilatation of an obstructed tube by pus. It is a fairly definite disease, and is seen as an almost primary condition. Purulent salpingitis setting in, speedy salpingitic closure of the ostium occurs, the tube then becomes dilated by ac- cumulation of pus in its canal. This pus may be virulent at first, losing its germs after a time, and then it may become reinfected throiigh intestine. Pyosalpinx proper frequently follows childbed and abortion, then it is usually as- sociated with widespread perimetritis, and even the mesosalpinx may become infiltrated. It is this variety of pyosalpinx that is specially liable to burst into intestine or bladder. There is also a distinct gonorrhooal pyosalpinx, with less marked general but as much local change. The infection of a primary hydrosalpinx with pus- producing germs is quite probable. In pyo- salpinx, as in unobstructed purulent salpingitis, the tubal epithelium is not always destroyed. Systematic writers describe several forms of salpingitis according to the preponderance of some particular pathological change. In salpin- gitis interstitialis or diffusa there is great hyper- trophy of the subepithelial connective tissue, which tends to cause sclerosis of the tube, a common ending of chronic salpingitis, especially in tuberculous disease. Salpingitis pseudo- follicularis signifies that the fusion of the edges of the plicfe has advanced to an extreme degree. Very large spaces are thus shut in, and the tubal epithelium still lines them; on section they appear like cysts and irregularly-shaped follicles. When this condition is associated with "inter- stitial salpingitis," the term salpingitis chronica productiva vegetans is used by some authors. When warty growths develop as part of the inflammatory process this condition is distin- guished by Macrez as endosalpingitis papillo- matosa. The warts may assume the characters of a papilloma. Marked and unusually uniform hypertrophy of the muscular coat in chronic salpingitis has been ranked as the sub-variety myosalpingitis productiva, and is always as- sociated with the " interstitial" form. Chiari's remarkable salpingitis isthmica nodosa represents an opposite condition, where the hypertrophy of the muscular coat has been more than usually irregular. Circumscribed areas of hypertrophied or hyperplastic muscular tissue form swellings, sometimes as big as a hemp-seed, in the walls of the tube towards its uterine attachment. They contain cyst-like spaces lined with tubal epithelium, probably involutions of the mucosa. The swellings have been taken for an incipient myoma of the tube. Hoeniatosalpinx and Haemorrhages from the Tube.—The great majority of cases of haemor- rhage either into the tube or out of its ostium are due to ectopic gestation. The pregnant tube may rupture or may eject the ovum with much hsemorrhage from the ostium (tubal abortion). When the gestation is thus interrupted very early in pregnancy the ovum and products of conception may be overlooked, and the hsemor- rhage attributed to some other cause. The so-called "spontaneous" lipemorrhages from the tube are rare. Bleeding due to hyper- gemia of the mucosa in menstruation, in haemo- philia, and in several well-known acute infectious disorders, is not unknown. It seems doubtful