FOOD 333 mortality amongst infants during the autumn months is very largely accounted for by this circumstance. IV. Preservatives and Colouring Matters Preservatives and Colouring Matters are now very extensively used, and consideration of their probable effects upon the digestive system is necessary. Preservatives.—The very extensive use of chemical preservatives renders the subject one of considerable importance. It is not necessary to say that all waste in regard to perishable food-stufFs should be avoided as far as possible ; the usefulness of the application of cold to this end is thoroughly appreciated, so also is the application of heat in the preservation of tinned foods of various kinds; by these means the food is preserved without the addition of anything likely to be injurious, and, by lessening the price, a good and abundant food - supply is brought within reach of the poorer classes. But in the case of chemical preservatives another aspect of the question appears, since, whilst the chemical used may check putrefac- tive changes in the food, it may also check the fermentative processes of digestion. The preservatives most commonly in use are boracic acid, or borates, salicylic acid, or salicy- lates, formalin, and of course salt. Boracic acid, or borates, is very largely used; margarine, butter, ham, bacon, sometimes fish, cream, and milk contain it; in margarine and butter it is more or less uniformly mixed, its use has been common for many years, 30 grains to the pound being often met with ; in hams and bacon it is usually and chiefly on the outside, although not infrequently from 4 grains to 8 grains per pound are found in the interior. Sausages, pork-pies, and pastry frequently contain it. Salicylic acid and salicylates are found in jam, but the manufacturers appear to be bo7ia fide anxious to add only a necessary minimum in this case; what are known as British wines and also certain temperance drinks are frequently found to contain boracic acid or salicylic acid far in excess of what is necessary, the range found being from 4 to 100 grains of boracic acid per gallon, and 7 grains to 150 grains of salicylic acid per gallon. Their use in these larger quantities is distinctly objectionable. It has actually been urged in defence of the practice that the quantities are not larger than those given in medicinal doses ; this may be true, but the question is one not of medicine—which may be all very well in its way—but of food, and indiscriminate doses of physic are not wanted at meal-times. Formalin is not infrequently used to preserve milk and cream. The addition of chemical jjre- sorvatives of various kinds to milk is commonest during the winter months, probably because at that season the milk has the highest value, and consequently the greatest profit is to Ije derived from keeping it, so that it may be worth the dealer's while to run the risk of a prosecution. The pernicious results arising from the indis- criminate use of preservatives have been demon- strated by Professor Boyce, who, feeding three series of five kittens upon inilk containing: {a) 10 grains of boracic acid to the pint; {b) b grains of boracic acid to the pint; (c) upon pure milk, found that the group fed with 10 grains to the pint became emaciated and died after obvious evidences of gastro-intestinal disturbance, that those treated with 5 grains showed similar re- sults, whilst the remaining five continued per- fectly healthy, and showed the normal increase in weight. Similar experiments with formalin showed, in proportion to the quantity of the formalin used, ill-health and emaciation, whilst control kittens fed with pure milk remained active and well and increased in weight. Inquiry shows clearly enough that grave danger will follow if young infants are fed upon milk containing these preservatives, and it emphasises the necessity for feeding infants as nature intended them to be fed, or if that is impracticable, to employ only pure, natural, and clean substitutes. Investigations such as these have also been undertaken by other observers, and show plainly enough that chemical pi'eservatives must be used with extreme caution; their careless and haphazard use is attended with the gravest danger to the consumer. Colouring Matters.—Sausages, more especi- ally German sausages, are coloured usually with a mixture of borax, and red coal-tar dye of the class known as sulphonated diazol, with a little salt, or saltpetre. Sometimes ground-rice or bi'ead-crumbs ai'e mixed with the colouring matter. Armenian liole consists of oxide of iron with a little silicious matter. A pernicious fraud is perpetrated by brush- ing-over hams, bacon, fish, etc., with a mixture of borax, salt, red coal-tar dye, and creosote, which gives the article the appearance of having been perfectly and carefully smoked. The name given to the colouring mixture is " Smokene." With regard to metallic salts, it is relatively uncommon to meet with these; sulphate of copper is found in bottled or tinned preserved peas, beans, etc., sometimes in unnecessary and dangerous quantities; the presence of the salt is injurious and unnecessary, and certainly con- ceals the inferior quality of the article, for ex- ample, by giving to stale and withered peas a spurious appearance of freshness and greenness. V. The Effects of eating impure Food The bacillus enteritides sporogenes has been found in unsound meat as well as in unsound fish.