409 GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY Its face is sallow, the bowels are costive, and in some cases the motions are pale as if there were some deficiency of bile. Every attempt to take food is followed almost immediately l)y vomiting; retching is sometimes , violent. The temperature may be normal througliout or somewhat raised, especially at the onset. After two or three days the vomiting usually ceases, and the child rapidly recovers, but sometimes the attacks last ten days or longer, and exhaus- tion may be so great as to threaten life. Such attacks may recur for several years; in the case mentioned above the attacks had recurred three or four times a year for five years. It seems pi-obable that these attacks are nervous in origin; certainly they seem to be little if at all influenced by such treatment as is useful in the vomiting of gastric catarrh. It has been suggested that they resemble migraine in their pathology, and Dr. Gee records a case in which the mother suffered from typical migraine. Dicu/nosis.—The nature of a first attack can scarcely be recognised ; the absence of any apparent cause and the intractability of the vomiting might suggest that it was of this character. A diagnosis can only be made with certainty after repeated attacks have shown the tendency to recurrence. To distinguish it from early meningitis may be extremely difficult, but headache is usually absent in recurrent vomit- ing, and is never likely to be so severe as in meningitis ; later the absence of paralytic symptoms and of ophthalmoscopic changes will assist the diagnosis. Treatment. — In the intervals all excitement and over-exertion, bodily and mental, especially school pressure, must be avoided. Healthy outdoor exercise short of fatigue should be encouraged. Diet shovdd be simple. Inter- mittent courses of arsenic and bi'omides should be given. During an attack the strength must be supported by careful feeding and stimulants if necessary. Fluids in very small quantities, iced or peptonised, may be tried, but in severe cases rectal feeding is necessary. The bowels should be opened freely by repeated small doses of calomel. Sedatives such as bromides, bella- donna, or hydrocyanic acid, or counter-irritation to the epigastrium, may be tried, but usually the vomiting runs its course iniinfluenced by drugs. DlARUHffiA {(Tastro-iHtesHnal catarrlt.; Gastroenteritis) Under this head will be described those disorders of the gastro - intestinal tract in infancy in which diarrhea is the prominent symptom. In a large proportion of cases, how- evei", the stomach is affected with the intestine, and vomiting may be quite as prominent a symptom as the diarrhoea. Various classifica- tions of these disoi'ders have been attempted, some based on clinical, some on pathological gi'oiuids, but the subject is one of great diffi- culty, for while it is evident that the cases fall into certain clinical groups, these groups are by no means well defined, and pathologically they tend to run one into the other. Diarrhoea may be acute or chronic. Acute diarrha'a may per- haps most usefully be divided into (1) Simple, (2) Inflammatory, (3) Choleraic. Jitiolcxjy.—Before describing the various forms of diarrhoea it may be well to say something about their general istiology; for our knowledge oil this point is at present so vague that it would be useless to attempt to associate par- ticular causes with particidar forms except in a very general way. There is no age at which diarrhoea is more prevalent or more fatal than that of infancy; but the liability is much greater in the first year of life than in the second, the mortality also is much heavier in the first year. Statistics taken by the writer at the Hospital for Sick Children showed tliat 90 per cent of the fatal cases of infantile diarrhwa wer-e under twelve months old. Girls and boys are about e(^ually affected. The influence of season is very marked. Scattered cases occur throughout the yeai', but during the hot summer months there is an enoi-mous increase, liotli in the prevalence and in the mortality of infantile diarrhcea. The actual seasonal variation in any particular place or year varies with the meteorological condi- tions ; in London the maximum prevalence would seem to be usually from the beginning of July to the middle of October. There is manifestly a very close I'elation between a high mean temperature of the atmo- sphere and infantile diarrha'a, but what this relation may lie it is difficult to ascertain exactly. Probaljly tlie high atmospheric temperature favours the growth of certain bacteria which are capable of exciting diarrhoea; these reach the intestine in the food, particularly in cow's milk which has not been pi'operly prepared. But what the source of these bacteria may be is unknown ; it has been suggested that they are from the soil, and it has been noticed that the siimmer increase of diarrho'al mortality follows the curve of soil-temperature as shown by the four-foot earth-thermometer (Ballard). At any time of the year infants who ai-e entirely or even partially hand-fed are nuicli more liable to diarrha^a than those who are entirely breast-fed ; and this difference is no doubt due chiefly to tlie almost complete sterility of human milk as drawn by the infant from the breast, while fresh cow's milk as supplied commercially almost invariably contains some bacteria. But other factors are always present in the diarrliiea of hand-fed infants : the food is often,