495 GOUT or other lesion, which for the tirst time suggested thiit the two conditions had a common origin. At another time he has been strongly inclined to diagnose scarlet fever in a boy (in the Christ- mas holidays), but, from his knowledge of the delicate, sensitive skin, both in the patient and other members of the family, also from his knowledge of the heredity, and consideration of the dietetic habits incident to the time of year, taken in conjunction with the itching present, lie finally commits himself to a diagnosis of dermatitis, and in a few days there developed the feeling characteristic of exfoliative derma- titis. These ai-e all actual occurrences, and many other suggestive parallels could be cited. Simi- larly with »oiiie cases of pruritus, lu'ticaria, psoriasis, and herjjes, and indeed his whole clinical experience, judiciously expressed, clearly establishes for him the importance of the re- lationship. One reason for the smaller amount of attention given to the subject in this country may arise from the fact that primary cutaneous disorders are more frequently found in subjects wlio are the victims of less declared gout, and too much stress is laid on the absence of so- called definite gouty symptoms. A careful study of many skin diseases from the point of view of their relationship to a diathetic tendency is a present desideratum, and an essential basis for the inquiry is a full recognition of the signifi- cance of the various minor and irregular mani- festations of the disease, along with a zealous and critical investigation of the hereditary history of each case. The view advanced by Roberts that, owing to the tolei'ance of the skin for uratic deposits, the relationship between gout and eczema is less important than frequently believed, must be received with caution. The imitic deposits are an incidental and often very unimportant symptom of the disease, and it is even con- ceivable that their presence in considerable amount may be a safegviard against any cuta- neous disturbances in the immediate neighbour- hood, owing to the development of morbid structural changes in the vascular and nervous cutaneous supply, and the secretory glands at the part. Gouty skin eruptions are seen in their most typical forms in cases of chronic or irregular gout, with few external evidences of the disease, and they are probably very closely related to the circulation in the vessels of the skin of faulty end products of nitrogenous meta- bolism (probably not uric acid), and to a lesser extent to the attempts of the cutaneous glands to excrete these abnormal substances. The importance of external influences must not, of course, be overlooked. They constitute an important allied force. Respiratory System.—As definite deposits of urate of soda have been found in the vocal cords, arytenoid cartilages, and in the crico-arytenoid ligaments and joints, and crystals of uric acid have been reported in the sputum, we are justi- fied in concluding that many minor symptoms of respiratory disorders occurring in subjects predisposed to gout are in reality of gouty origin. With regard to catarrhal states of the Larynx our knowledge is well summed up in the follow- ing. Whether or not there be a specialised gouty form of chronic laryngitis there can be no doubt that in certain persons of jilethoric habit, limited diet, abstention from alcohol, and the administration of Carlsbad salts, hasten recovery, as pointed out by von Ziemssen (M'Bride). The part jDlayed by the Ijroncliial mucous membrane is even more pronounced. A simple trritahility of the bronchial mucous membrane, evidenced by a loud spasmodic cough, is occa- sionally a well-marked feature in the female children of gouty parents. Occasionally an acute bronchitis develops coincidently with the abrupt cessation of articular pains, more espe- cially in inveterate cases in whom emphysema and a proportionate degree of heart weakness are present. In other cases the bronchitis may give place to some other manifestation. The relationship of gout and asthma is an interesting and intricate one. Asthma occurs by no means infrequently in the oflspring of gouty parents, and in such cases its occurrence must be re- garded as a typical gouty manifestation (we must, of course, have regard to the jjossible strong admixture of a neurotic strain in the individual). While some cases are by no means I'eadily amenable to treatment, others furnish the most brilliant illustrations of the influence of a physiological diet and a regulated life on the faulty metabolism. In some cases, with a long-standing asthmatic history, true articular gout may develop in late life ; in others a typical gouty attack may alternate with a genuine asthmatic seizure ; perhaps in the majority no other well-declared phenomena take place. In this latter instance it would almost appear as if one outlet for the action of the products of the deranged metabolism sufficed, and even gave some protection against others. Lastly, we must refer to the occasional occurrence of hitmoptysis in subjects with a gouty tendency, either de- clared or latent, this being associated with marked emphysema and vascular degeneration, a condition first described by Sir A. Clark. In all such cases care must be taken to eliminate a chronic tuberculous lesion as the cause of the liEemorrhage. While gout and active tuberculous disease are not often associated, we are not, to my mind, justified in thinking that there is any antagonism between them. Everything depends on the predominance of one or other strain. It is interesting to note that M. Baumis considered that a gouty father and a tuberculous mother will beget an asthmatic child. The chart at page 505 shows that the oldest son of a gouty