132 ENZYMES secrete the enzyme even during the life of the cells. But there are also other bacteria which do not liquefy gelatine, yet which contain similar enzymes, which can be obtained from the bodies of the bacteria by pulverisation and crushing (typhoid and tubercle bacilli, Geret and Hahn). Hence there are endotrypsines here too, as well as in saccharomyces. These proteolytic bacterial enzymes have doubtless a definite relationship to the formation of toxine, and hence to the production of disease; but liitlierto so little liglit has been thrown on this relationship that further details thereof cannot at present lay claim to any importance. II. Enzymes which coagulate Albumin The best known of these ferments is rennin (chymosin, cheese ferment). This is more especially found in the calf's stomach, but is also found in the stomach of young mammals in general, existing as zymogen, which is easily converted into the true rennin by acidulation. It also occurs in the gastric juice of older mammals (including man), birds, and amphibia. The action of rennin consists in coagulating the casein of milk. More accurate investigations have demonstrated that soluble calcium salts must always be present if this process is to occur, and that, on the other hand, the presence of acids is by no means requisite as was formerly thought. The precipitation of milk by acids is a process quite distinct fi'om its coagulation by rennin. In the latter process (according to Hammarsten) the soluble compound of cascinogen and lime contained in the milk is first split up into a soluble compound of casein and lime and into whey-albumin which resembles albumose. If there are, however, soluble lime salts present, the soluble compound of casein and lime unites with them to form double salts which are in- soluble in fluids whose reaction approaches the neutral point. As milk fulfils both these requisite conditions (soluble lime salts and a neutral or amphoteric reaction) casein is conse- quently separated as a firm insoluble coagulum. The removal of the soluble lime salts from the milk by dialysis or by the addition of ammonium oxalate, abolishes the power of rennin, therefore, in the same manner as does a high degree of alkalinity of the milk. Feeble acidulation, on the contrary (introduction of carbonic acid), is somewhat favourable, for more lime salts are thereby rendered soluble; pro- longed boiling and sterilisation, and also the diluting of milk, tend to inhibit coagulation by rennin, because the relative amount of insoluble lime salt is thereby diminished. For the pro- duction of powerful extracts dried calves' stomachs are extracted with dilute acids, water solutions of common salt, or glycerine. Glycerine extracts retain their power for long periods. The optimum temperature for calf's rennet is the same as that of the body, but in the cheese- making industry lower temperatures are employed (20°-25° C.) The temperature at which rennin is killed is about 66°. The time required for coagulation is dependent on the amount of rennin present. Milk which has been in contact with rennet at the temperature of the body for only a few seconds, is immediately coagulated by boiling, evidently because boiling favours the formation of the insoluble compounds of casein and lime. If, however, milk and rennet remain in contact for a longer time at the body temperature, it is considerably longer before the milk is coagulated. The action of rennin is, however, generally speak- ing, one of the most rapid forms of enzyme action. The succus entericus, pancreatic juice, and urine, are also said to contain a milk-curdling ferment. These ferments have likewise been observed I in the vegetable kingdom, but their physiological significance is not clearly understood. Thus a milk-curdling ferment is contained in the sap of Ananassa sativa, of Carica papaya, and of the fig-tree, in the flowers too of many of the Compositaj (artichokes, Carina acaulis), and also in Galium vei'um, and in some kinds of thistles. These vegetable milk-curdling ferments have also been employed in cheese-making, and especially so in southern countries. Fibrin Ferment.—This ferment, which pro- duces the coagulation of blood, seems to be widely distributed among the bodily cells. Extracts from red and white blood corpuscles, and from animal and vegetable tissues, cause coagulation of the plasma of horse's blood, which is obtained by cooling down to 0" and filtering, and which does not coagulate spontaneously. These extracts likewise cause coagulation of blood in the living animal body after intravenous injection. The coagulation of blood which has left the arteries always seems, under the usual natural conditions, to occur by the breaking- down of white blood corpuscles, and the leuco- cytes are accordingly regarded as being the main seat of the zymogen which is converted into fibrin ferment on the destruction of the blood corpuscles. Fibrin ferment is prepared by ex- posing defibrinated blood or serum to strong alcohol for some months, and the coagulum is subsequently dried in the air and extracted with a little water for half an hour. It is probably of the nature of a globulin which loses its enzymatic action by being heated to 75°. The coagulation of blood is, according to recent investigation, analogous to but not identical with the coagulation of milk. Coagulation of the blood takes place by means of an enzyme- fibrin ferment, which transforms soluble fibrin- ogen into insoluble fibrin. The importance of soluble lime salts in this action has been recog- nised for some time by scientists; but only