GANGLION 393 patients extreme discomfort will result fi'om the condition. Diagnosis.—(a) From other cystic swellings : 1. BursEe ; 2. Aneurysms ; 3. Synovial cysts. (6) From solid swellings: 1. Fibromata; 2. Lipomata; 3. Tuberculous growths; 4. Gum- mata; 5. Osteomata; 6. Chondromata; 7. Sar- comata. In the diagnosis from bursse some difficulty may be experienced, for both varieties of swell- ings may exist in similar regions, and both may be associated with tendons. Burstc, how- ever, are as a rule over bony points, while ganglia have no connection with such. BursEe contain typical bursal synovial fluid, while ganglia are filled with their characteristic colloid material. It is usually in the case of a ganglion in relation with the flexor carpi radialis tendon sheath that a possible error in diagnosis can occur. Here there may be communicated pulsation to the swelling, and if there has been a history of injury, a somewhat close resem- blance to a traumatic aneurysm presents itself. Moreover, such aneurysms of the radial artery are not by any means rare. The chief point of distinction lies in the fact that if the swelling is displaced a short way from the line of the vessel the pulsation ceases, and that an exploring needle, introduced only in such cases as will be submitted to operation, reveals the contents to be in one case blood and in the other the usual colloid material. Synovial cysts may be almost impossible of diagnosis miless their contents are seen, when the synovial fluid will not have the characters of the ganglionic. In the majority of instances the fact that fluctuation can be obtained in a ganglion serves to distinguish it from any of the solid swellings enumerated above. Treatjien'J'.—This may be either non-opera- tive or operative. Non-operative Treatment.— 1. Application of the Tincture of Iodine.—For a considerable period the external application of this solution lias found favour in the hands of luany. It is, however, not only useless for the removal of the swelling, but it does little to mitigate the symptoms that are produced by the ganglion. Possibly the persistent application of a strong solution of iodine may bring about so much inflanunation as to cause positive harm. Iodine sliould therefore be avoided, unless it is em- ploj'ed solely as a placebo. 2. Prolonged Pressure.—There is no doubt tliat in a few instances this method of treatment has resulted in the diminution or complete dis- appearance of the tumour. It is at the best <inly an uncertain means of bringing about the cure of the lesion, and an apparent cure may be speedily followed by a refilling of the non- obliterated cyst cavity. 3. Evacuation of the fluid by the bursting of the sac wall by means of a sharp blow, as from the back of a book, or Ijy the pressure of the surgeon's thumbs. This way of treating a gang- lion is the one that is probably most frequently used, but there are some weighty objections to its employment. In the first place, it is as a rule merely palliative, the cyst wall healing, and the fluid ere long again distending it. It is a very painful method. The blow struck to rupture the sac may fail to do so owing to the thickness of its wall, or may cause more damage than was intended, including even that of pro- ducing a fractui'e of the bone beneath. On the other hand, it has certain distinct advantages. It is simple, has only a small amount of danger, involves no risk of sepsis, and leaves no scar. Opjerative Treatment.—1. Puncture of the sac with a tenotome, and the squeezing of the colloid contents out through the aperture so made. This method may be somewhat more satisfactory than the former in being possibly less often followed by a recurrence. It should be done only after the part has been rendered aseptic, for otherwise most untoward results may ensue, leading in some instances to destruc- tion of the synovial cavities of the adjacent joints and tendon sheaths. Pressure is to be applied by a pad of gauze and firm bandaging after the contents have been evacuated. 2. liemoval of the colloid fluid liy j^uncture, and the subsequent injection of the cavity of the cyst with tincture of iodine or other irritat- ing aseptic fluid. This may lead to the oblitera- tion of the cavity by the setting up of an inflam- mation which will cause the surfaces to become united by plastic exudation. It is not a certain method of cure. 3. Extirpation of the cyst by dissecting it as a whole from the tissues to which it is attached. This is the only surel}' radical means of removal. It has for its advantages that the wliole of the cyst can be dealt with, and that with the assurance that it will never make its appearance again. It is objected to chiefly on account of the scar that will necessarily result, though it must be remembered that this is but a very slight one jjrovided that sti-ict asepsis is maintained. For ganglia in the lower extremity no method of treatment could be more satis- factoiy, but for those that are found about the wrist, and particidarly those on its dorsal sur- face, it is perhaps not so much in favoiu*. After tlie recurrence of the swelling when other methods of treatment have in their turn failed, there should be no hesitation in recommending and even urging the radical removal of the cyst by dissection. Ganglion, Compound Palmar.—Tiiough this term is in common use, the condition is not one that should receive the designation of "gang- lion," as it is in reality in the majority of in- stances a true tuberculous teno-synovitis of the sheaths of the flexor tendons in the palm of the hand.