367 FRAGILITAS OSSIUM EASES {Osteogenesis Imperfecta); RicivETS {Foetal Rickets). Fragilitas ossium or Osteopsathyrosis may Ije defined as an unnatural brittleness of the bones. The terms are employed to denote two different conditions—(i.) An abnormal brittleness of tlie bones occurring as a symptom in consequence, for example, of tumours in the bones, disuse, senility, joint disease, cachexia of malignant disease, syphilis, rickets, insanity, locomotor ataxia, scorbutus—e.g. several fractures recorded by Guthrie in a child set. 2i years, who had scurvy; and lastly, jjhosphorus poisoning, as in two workers in a lucifer-match factory, each of whom had "at ditterent times both thigh bones broken in a ridiculously simple fashion " (Dearden). In such cases there is rarefaction of the bones, which are light and porous, and which may show deformity from repeated frac- tures, (ii.) Idiopathic Fragilitas ossium, a separate and distinct condition, not secondary to any pre-existing disease. The brittleness here is not accompanied, so far as is known, by any constant local alterations, nor does the chemical constitution of the bones satisfactorily account for their fragility. The bones, though very brittle, do not tend to bend, but in con- sequence of numerous fractures they become much deformed. The bones, and especially those of the lower limbs and the ribs, are liable to fracture after very slight violence, e.g. while throwing a cricket-ball (Willet), from a slight fall or blow, or even from mere movement, say, of the limbs, as in Spurrell's case. The disease is often, though not always, hereditary, and several members of the family may be affected, as in Hunter's cases. The first fracture often occurs during childhood, and subsequently frac- tures take place repeatedly. Stanley quotes the case of a girl aged fourteen, who had had 31 fractures. Dent records 27 fractures in a man aged twenty-nine, and in Tyrrell's case there had been 22 fractures—scarcely any long bone had escaped. Diagnosis of the idiopathic form can only be made by excluding those conditions causing rarefaction and atrophy of bone. A history of tlie disease in the relatives is imjjortant, and it must not be confounded with osteomalacia. As Fragilitas ossium may affect the foetus in utero, and tlie fcetus be born prematui-ely with nniltiple fractures, the disease has a certain importance from the medico-legal stand- point. Treatment.—Union is usually rapid and firm. We have no means of checking or curing the disease itself. Fra,ITlbGesia.. See Venereal Disease {Aliled Diseases, Franihasia); Yaws. Frame Food. See Infant Feeding {Farinaceous Foods). FrangfUlin.—A glucoside, C.,^H^,„Oc„ ob- tained fi'oui the bark of Flummus frangula ; on liydrolysis it separates into Emodin (Cj^Hj^Oj.,) and the sugar rhanmose (CyHj„0,-). Frankel's Pneumococcus. See Ear, Acute InflaxMmai'iux of Middle {Causes, Micro-organisms); Ear, Middle, Chronic In- flammation {Bacteriology); Pneumonia, Bac- teriology OF {Pneumococcus); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Bacteriology). Frankel's Posture Test.—The re- appearance of pus iu the iiiitldle meatus of the nose after it has been all removed, and after the head has Ijeen held with the vertex depend- ent and the suspected side uppermost; it in- dicates antral disease. See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Diagnosis of Chronic Suppuration in the Anterior Group of Sinuses, FrdnJveVs Posture Test). Frankincense.—Frankincense or Thus Americanum is an oleo-resin obtained from Pinus palustris and P. toeda ; it is used as an antiseptic and slightly stimulant application for wounds and ulcers, and is contained in Emplastrum Picis; it has characters like tur- pentine. See Resin. Franzenbad. (S'ee Balneology {Austria, Alkaline) ; MinkraIj Waters {Alkaline). Franz Josef Water. See Balneo logy {Austria, Sulp)hated). Frauenhofer'S Lines. See Physio- logy, IIlooI) {Pigment, IFevioglobin). Freckles. See Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions OF {Classification, Actinic). Free Martin.—The sterile cow-calf born co-twin witli a bull-calf; it has been supposed to be not really a cow-calf but a pseudo-herma- phroditic bull-calf. The rule that the female twin born co-twin with a male is sterile does not apply to the hinnan subject. Freezing'. See Anesthesia {Local); Cryoscopy ; Meteorology ; Temperature, De- pression of ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {General I'roperties, Freezing Point). " Fremissement." — A thrill. See Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Thrill); Chest, Clinical Investigation op {Heart, Thrill) ; Heart, Myocardium and Endocardiuji {Physical Examimition, Palpaiion, Thrills). Fremitus. See Chest, Clinical Inves- tigation OF {Palpation of Chest Wall) ; Thrill ; etc. Frenkel's Exercises. See Tabes DoRSALis (Preatmenf, JJ<tssage and Gymnastics).