320 DEVELOPMENT OF FCETUS AND OVUM, ingly early date, and it is unlikely that the placenta performs any important excretory functions, with the exception of carrying off the carbonic acid of the venous blood which is brought to it by the iimbilical arteries. The placental scheme presents an arrangement admirably adapted for osmotic interchanges between the foetal and the maternal blood currents, the chorionic epithelium representing the dialyser. It is probable that the placenta is merely the vehicle ,of these interchanges, and not in any sense a glandular organ. Some years ago the theory was much in vogue that the serotinal glands secreted a nutrient fluid termed "uterine milk," which was absorbed by the villi, and thus furnished the foetus with nutriment. This theory has, however, never been adequately supported by facts. A still older theory that there was a direct interchange of blood by anastomosis between the foetal and maternal vessels is of course negatived by the anatomical structure of the organ. The actual facts available regarding the nature of the placental interchanges are ex- ceedingly scanty. From a comparative analysis of the blood delivered to the placenta by the umbilical arteries, and conveyed from it by the vein, we learn that the foetal blood acquires 0, and loses COg in its passage through the placenta. About the nutritional interchanges nothing is known. It is easy to understand that diffusible substances such as water, salt, sugar, peptones, etc., may pass through the dialyser, but whence the foetus obtains its supplies of indiffusible substances such as fat we do not know. And yet an extensive de- position of fat in the fcetal organism does take place, for Fehling has shown that the propor- tion of fat to the total weight increases from •45 per cent at the fourth month of gestation to 9"1 per cent at term. It is extremely un- likely that all this fat comes through the placenta from the maternal blood. The theory has been suggested that it may be carried through by leucocytosis, but leucocytes have never been observed to pass through the villi, and any extensive diapedesis could hardly have escaped observation. The conclusion seems inevitable that the foetus produces its own fat. The same must be said of the important pig- ments, such as hjemoglobin, bilirubin, the iris pigment, etc. The attempt has frequently been made to prove by experiment that various gaseous and solid substances, both soluble and insoluble, may pass through the placenta. While the attempt has succeeded with gases and soluble solids, all attempts to pass insoluble solids through the placenta have broken down. It has been held by many that certain micro- organisms, such as streptococci, may pass through, and directly transfer disease from the mother to the foetus, but even on this point the results obtained are not free from objection. The transference of disease is not open to doubt, but it is questionable whether the organisms, themselves pass over, and even if they do so, whether they pass through the placenta. Foetal Excretory Functions.—We know very little of the means by which the predigested nutriment conveyed to the foetus through the umbilical vein is worked up into the various tissues of the body, nor how the waste insepar- able from such a process is disposed of. Car- bonic acid, the direct product of combustion, is eliminated through the umbilical vein, the foetal lungs being functionless, and the placenta, thei'efore, the true respiratory organ of the foetus. Very early provision is, however, made for excretion by other channels, viz. throvigb the liver, the kidneys, and the skin. The foetal liver is a bilobed organ of pre- dominant size as early as the fourth week of gestation in the human embryo. During the second month it increases out of all proportion to the other viscera, causing the abdomen ta appear markedly protuberant. In the later months it becomes proportionately smaller than at this period, but remains up to term rela- tively larger than in the adult. In the mature foetus it weighs -Ysth. part of the total body weight, while in the adult the proportion is, about yV^h. The lower border reaches the level of the iliac crest, and the organ occupies one-half of the entire pelvi-abdominal cavity, and contains one-half of the total bulk of blood in the body. From the time of establishment of the allantoic circulation onwards it receives a free supply of pure blood directly from the chorion. The gall-bladder appears during the second month, and in the third month contains a yellow fluid which must be considered to be a true biliary secretion, since it contains both bile salts and acids (Preyer). Bile pigment has been demonstrated at the fifth month. The biliary secretion is the principal source of the meconium, which is present in the upper gut from the time of appearance of bile in the gall- bladder onwards. Another proof of the activity of the liver is to be found in the fact that a large deposit of glycogen is present in the fcetal muscles, and also, though to a less extent, in the amnion and placenta. The presence of this substance in the placenta was first noted by Claude Bernard. It is well recognised that the liver is the source of glycogen formation in the adult, and we are at liberty to assume with safety that the same holds good of the foetus. Further, the liver is the great heat-producing organ, and we therefore find that the tempera- ture of the foetus usually exceeds the internal temperature of the maternal body by "5° to 1° F. Lastly, urea, also a product of the meta- bolism of the liver, is present in foetal urine and in the liquor amnii, and has been detected in the latter fluid as early as the sixth week of gestation by Prochownik. It becomes clear