GOUT 518 and potatoes, with a pudding ; occasionally green vegetables. Tea.—Tea, bread and butter. And in addition a cupful of milk was taken either alone or with soda water twice daily. During this time patient was making a very slow recovery, being continuously very subject to sharp recurring pains in different regions, excessive weakness in the feet, hands, etc., and he was in this state when he left the hospital to go to the Convalescent Home for four weeks. His diet then was as follows :— 1. Porridge, tea, bread and butter. 2. Fish or fowl, bread, potatoes, rice or other milk pudding. •3. Tea, bread and butter. 4. Porridge and milk. The most important differences between this and his former diet were the absence of all soups, red meats, and green vegetables. Under this regime he improved very materially, and, for him, very rapidly. The pains diminished and soon disappeared; he gained 6i lbs. in weight in four weeks. He now felt well. On his return to hospital for further obser- vation his diet was inadvertently changed back to his former hospital diet with immediate unfortunate results. The pains reappeared, the stiffness and weakness became accentuated, and at least one of the former weak spots became swollen, red, and tender within thirty- six hours after his return to hospital. His appetite and digestion remained apparently un- affected, the tongue was slightly furred, and the total amount of food consumed was actually less in amount than it had been at the Con- valescent Home. No actual acute attack developed, but his whole metabolism was de- ranged and he lost ?>\ lbs. within six days. Even allowing for the change of air incuiTed on his return to the hospital, the case was a perfect picture of the profound influence of diet on the disease. If we analyse the altered circumstances which led to the derangement of metabolism, there is no doubt that the soup was prejudicial, and mainly because it interfered with the normal local metabolism in the proteids in the diet. There is also every reason to believe that the milk taken in the course of the hospital diet was not calculated to give the various glandular secretions the rest requisite for their due functional activity. Other points there may be, but these will sufiice. In gout, as in health, the tissues can cope with a range of diet within which no untoward effects result. The " convalescent" diet was the more physio- logical one, and a reference to its nature and amount clearly shows what nature is willing and able to do. Further, that diet could certainly be modified in different directions, e.g. to include vegetables without detriment so long as the necessary rearrangement was made. There are not a few cases like this one in respect of the noxious influence of soup, but in this connection regard should be paid to the points in the composition of soup already referred to. With regard to the meat, this patient is an illustration of a type in which all red meats are better avoided. Whatever the exact cause may be, there are cases of gout when the reaction of the tissues to intestinal influences is more marked and more unfavour- able if red meats are a component of the diet, and these should be dieted accordingly. But such cases are exceptional. 3. Mrs. C, tet. 32, married; 2 children.— Hereditary history of gout. i. Neuralgia. ii. Pains in great toe joints and legs. iii. Acute gout. This patient is a big, well-built woman of active bodily and mental habits, with keen appetite and excellent digestion, which she is in a position to gratify, although she does not eat immoderately. Her weight well exceeds the average for her height and years. She occasionally has a glass of claret to dinner, and takes very exceptionally a glass of beer to lunch. The latter is a beverage of which she is particularly fond, but she indulges very occa- sionally, as she has long recognised that it was prejiidicial to her. This case illustrates well the ill-declared type of gout that is more fre- quently seen in Scotland than the truly typical form. As a girl she was subject to facial neuralgia, which, however, has quite disappeared. Since the age of 17 she has been occasionally the subject of sharp pains in the calves of the legs, and eighteen months ago she was confined to bed for two days with severe pains in the upper arm and shoulder, a condition which I was satisfied was a slight inflammatory attack in- volving the brachial plexus. For many years she has had occasional sharp twinges of pain in both great toe joints, lasting from five minutes to half an hour, often associated with a stinging pain in the calf of the leg and cramp- like feelings in the soles of the feet. She has also been a martyr to chilblains. Six months ago a typical mild attack of acute gout developed in the left great toe joint, which was recovered from in less than three days. The attack developed at 10 p.m. and only lasted some five or six hovirs, and when I saw her at the height of the pain the affected toe joint was slightly swollen, the superficial veins prominent, the skin showing a localised red area the size of a shilling, and the joint very painful on pressure. On this day she had partaken of a larger lunch than usual, and with it a bottle of beer, and to this indiscretion she attributed the attack, although she has occasionally taken beer without any accession of symptoms. That