18 ECTOPIC GESTATION rupture, ligature of the broad ligament and removal of the tube arrest the haemorrhage, but in cases of secondary rupture separate vessels must be secured, the placenta is much more diiScult to deal with, and one has to trust largely to pressure and drainage. General Symptoms and Diagnosis op Tubal Gestation The diificulties which attend the accurate diagnosis of early extra-uterine pregnancy are numerous, and are for the most part well recog- nised, and indeed, from the large proportion of cases which terminate fatally if left undiagnosed and untreated, it is clear that the value of an early and accurate diagnosis can scarcely be exaggerated. It formerly was commonly stated that diagnosis before rupture was quite impos- sible, but this is nowadays, with our increased knowledge of the subject, quite inaccui-ate. Indeed, the proportion of cases in which the condition is diagnosed is an increasingly large one, and Taylor records that out of his 42 cases the exact nature of the lesion was recognised in 32 before opei-ation. Extra-uterine gestation may occur at any age during the period of a woman's fertile life. As a rule it will be found that the patient has been in fairly good health before the pregnancy occurred. Even though there be a history, as there often is, of previous tubal disease, tliis has evidently been in a quiescent state for some time. In about one- lialf of the recorded cases it has been noted that usually several years have elapsed since the last normal pregnancy took place, and this point always excites a certain amount of suspicion if any other symptom of extra-uterine gestation is present. The general constitutional symptoms of normal pregnancy may or may not be present. It not infrequently happens that the subjective symptoms are entirely absent, and the patient may be quite unaware of her condition. More commonly, however, one finds the usual mammary changes with the formation of the areola, but Montgomery's tubercles are seldom well developed. Gastric disturbance may be evident, the patient frequently complains of pelvic pain, usually confined to one side, and there is practically always a history of some derangement of menstruation. As a rule one finds that the patient has missed one or two periods, and then has suffered from irregular haemorrhages. Cullingworth has drawn attention to the character of these haemorrhages. He says, " The blood is almost invariably dark in colour, moderate in amount, thickish in its consistence, and steady in its rate of flow. Gushes of bright red blood occur occasionally, but are quite exceptional." In the writer's experience, however, floodings are not so very uncommon. Accompanying these haemorrhages shreds of membrane are frequently passed, but in other cases the uterine decidua is passed entire. The presence of these shreds, or of the whole decidua, forms a most important sign, but is one which unfortunately cannot always be obtained. If the membrane be examined, it is important not to mistake it for that passed in the rare condition known as " membranous dysmenorrhoea," in which the membrane is usually expelled in small pieces and rarely as an entire cast. The membrane from the uterus in cases of extra - uterine gestation is much thicker, and is generally shed either in large pieces or as a complete cast of the interior of the uterus. The history of the case, too, would be of great value in diilerentiating between the two conditions. (a) Diagnosis before Rupture.—The character of the pelvic pain varies. It may be dull and aching, or it may be, and is especially just be- fore rapture takes place, sharp and lancinating. The external genitals and the vagina may present the same appearances as in normal pregnancy, and on bimamial examination, the uterus enlarged, soft, and globular, is displaced to one or other side of the pelvis by a swelling which can be felt behind and to one side of the uterus. This swelling is tense, elastic, and fluctuating, and through the vaginal roof—a most valuable sign—the presence of pulsating vessels may be detected on the affected side. The swelling during the first few weeks may be movable and insensitive, but later it becomes fixed and tender. Another and an important point in diagnosis is that repeated examinations reveal the gradual increase in size of the sac. (6) Diagnosis of Rupture.—(1) Early Rupture. —In all cases of early rupture the symptoms come on with remarkable suddenness. Generally the patient's last menstrual period has been somewhat delayed, and has then come on, but not normally, the character of the discharge being altered. She is probably going about apparently perfectly well, when she is suddenly seized with violent pain in the abdomen, be- comes faint, and has to lie down. That this condition is not merely one of syncope is determined by the increasing pallor of the countenance, by the fact that acute abdominal pain is present, but especially by the fact, that whereas in syncope, when the pulse returns, it is slow and full, it is in this condition rapid, small, and thready. Indeed the patient presents all the symptoms of internal haemorrhage moi'e or less severe. Examination of the pelvis reveals very often little or nothing, but in some cases it is possible to detect a swelling in the Fallopian tube, and free fluid may be detected in the pouch of Douglas. Later, as coagulation takes place, a distinct boggy swelling is felt in the same situation. (2) Later Rupture.—(a) Intra-peritoneal.— When this occurs the symptoms are similar to