242 F.ECES According to Le Sage the green colour of the stools of infants may in some instances be due to the action of a chromogenic bacillus. (c) Alterations in the odour of the fteces are common. Thus some of the diarrhoeas of infancy are characterised by the presence of a sour odour; others by the occurrence of the very disagreeable odour due to albuminous decom- position. Such a result may arise in the case of acholic stools owing to the proteids being for a time enclosed in fats, and their digestion and absorption hindered. Later the fats break up into fatty acids and glycerine, and large quantities of indol and other decomposition products are then set free by the breaking-up of the proteids. (d) The reaction vai'ies greatly in diiTerent pathological conditions, but has not been found to be of clinical importance. (e) Foreign bodies may often be noticed in stools. Amongst these may be mentioned— (1) Bodies swallowed, accidentally or pur- posely, especially by lunatics or children. (2) Indigestible articles of food {e.g. portions of tendons, skins, fruit stones). (3) Undigested food {e.g. in lienteric diar- rhoea). (4) Mucin, which normally forms the basis of the fgeces, may be present in some pathological conditions in great abundance, especially in the condition known as mucous colitis, where it may form skins, or flakes, or casts of the bowel {see "Colon, Diseases of"). (5) Pus may be present from ulceration of the bowel, or from the rupture of an abscess into the intestine. (6) Fat is very abundant in acholic stools, but a considerable amount may be present when the diet is very rich in fat or oil. Con- cretions largely composed of fatty acids have occasionally been produced as the result of swallowing large quantities of oil. (7) When blood is present in the faeces it cannot always be recognised as such, as the corpuscles are destroyed during its passage through the bowel. Under such circumstances the presence of hsematin may be demonstrated by a spectroscopic examination, or by the pro- duction of Teichmann's blood crystals (by diochloride of hfematin), obtained by adding to the substance containing blood a drop of glacial acetic acid and a crystal of chloride of sodium. (8) Parasites. — The presence of intestinal parasites is recognised by the passage of in- dividuals or portions of them, or of their ova, in the fseces. The description of these will be found in the article. (9) Miscellaneous.—Under this heading may be mentioned gall-stones, enteroliths, and con- cretions of various kinds, fragments of mucous membrane, portions of tumours, even gangrenous portions of intestine from an intussusception which has sloughed. Gall-stones. — The examination of the faeces for gall-stones is important in all cases of supposed gall-stone colic. The faeces should be carefvilly collected, broken up in water, and strained as in examining for parasites. It must be remembered that even when the symptoms have been very severe, the calculi may be very small. The presence of facets upon the calculus is important as indicating the presence of other stones. {See " Gall- Bladder.") Intestinal Sand.—The occurrence of "sand" in the intestinal discharges is a rare condition. Several varieties are recognised, of which the principal is the passage of large numbers of very minute biliary calculi. In another form the grains are composed of particles of vegetable sclerenchyma such as the little hard bodies so abundant in the pulp of pears. Quite recently a troublesome form of diarrhoea occurring amongst our troops at Modder River, South Africa, has been attributed to the irrita- tion of the bowel by the quantity of sand swallowed during the prevalence of severe sand- storms. The FiECES in Certain Diseases.—In a number of diseases the faeces are more or less characteristically altered. In typhoid fever the occurrence of intestinal symptoms is very inconstant. When diarrhoea is present the stools are usually copious, greyish- yellow, and of the general consistence and appear- ance of pea-soup. The severity of the diarrhoea is no gauge of the extent of the intestinal lesions. Eberth's bacillus cannot usually be found in the stools before the end of the first week. In dysentery the stools vary considerably in different forms of the disease. Commonly they are frequent, gelatinous, and bloody, and if the disease has lasted for some time contain grey or brown shreddy material. In amoebic dysentery the stools are characteristically fluid. They contain much mucus and usually blood, and active amoebae may be found in them on micro- scopic examination. In simple ulcerative colitis diarrhoea is a prominent symptom, and the disease is often wrongly regarded as a form of dysentery. The stools are usually frequent, fluid, dark, and foul-smelling. They may contain mucus, shreddy material, and blood which is usually red and fluid, and not intimately mixed with the faeces. Pus, fragments of tissue, and blood are the most valuable signs of intestinal ulceration. In cholera the stools are spoken of as rice- water stools, from their resemblance to water in which rice has been boiled. They are watery, pale, alkaline in reaction, and have a specific gravity of from 1005 to 1010. Before the period of reaction the comma bacillus may be found in pure cultivation in shreds of mucus. Choleraic diarrhoea occurs also in British cholera and in some forms of irritant poisoning.