ECZEMA 38 coccogenous, bacillary, or trichophytic origin, and is usually a purulent form of inflammation. It tends in the chronic cases to perifollicular induration, thus forming what are clinically known as " nodules." The certain diagnosis of dry eczema from dry superficial tinea of the beai'd can only be made by the aid of the micro- scope. Impetigo is distinguished from purulent eczema of the face by the fact that the suppura- tion forms practically the whole of the impetigo process, while in eczema it is only a part of a general serous inflammation. Consequently in impetigo the inflammatory symptoms do not extend beyond the circumference of the pus scabs, which thus convey to the eye "the appearance of having been gummed on." In eczema, on the contrary, the scabs appear to be adhering to a red catarrhal surface. Type 5. Red, dry, scaly patches are scattered through the heard and whiskers; they are quite superficial and, do not afect the follicles ; they are associated with pityriasis capitis. Treatment.—This is a mycosiform (seborrhceic) eczema. There is no need to shave the beard or whiskers. A thin parafiin ointment contain- ing 3j- or more of oleum rusci with oj- of precipitated sulphur is to be well rubbed in with the fingers. If preferred, a spray of liquid paraffin containing 5j- of oleum rusci to the §j. may be used three or four times a day. Type 6. The slcin in the region of the beard and whiskers is of a dull red colour, infiltrated and thickened to a moderate extent ; a few follicles are supjmrating. The disease is of many months' or years' duration. Treatment.—This variety is known as sycosi- form eczema from its resemblance to sycosis. The inflammation, however, is not essentially follicular, as in the latter disease. In the treatment of these chronic cases care must be taken not to over-stimulate the weakened and damaged skin by irritant remedies, which have the injurious effect of setting up fresh suppura- tion. If possible the hair must be shaved, or at least clipped close with the scissors. It is well to begin with a liniment such as the following:— 01. olivarum, Aquse calcis, aa . . . ^iij. Zinci oxidi . . . . 5iv. Sulph. precip. .... 5iij- Hydrarg. subchlor. . . . oSS. This must be dabbed or painted over the affected parts many times in the day. It must be continued until all suppuration has ceased, and the hypersemia and tension have been reduced to about half their previous extent. After this the 5 per cent oleate of mercury and Lassar's paste in equal parts, with 1 per cent of boric acid or salicylic acid, should be gently rubbed in three times a day. Typje 7. The upper lip covered with the moustache is the seat of a patch of chronic inflammation having a somewhat sharply defined margin; it may, or may not, be scattered over ivith superficial pustules, but there is no follicular induration. This variety is met ivith in old alcoholics. Treatment.—This form is extremely rebellious, and may persist for months or even years. In the experience of the writer the only remedy which has any influence over it is mercury. The ointment recommended by Brooke for lupus does well here. The formula is— Hydrarg. oleatis, 5 per cent . 3iv. Pasta) Lassar . . . Jiv. Acidi salicylici . . • gr. x. Ichthyolis .... gr. x. This must be gently rubbed into the affected parts morning, afternoon, and evening. These patients require strict supervision on accoimt of their loose, intemperate habits. Lirs.—Tyjoe 1. The lips are edematous, much swollen and immobile; also covered ivith vesico- pustules and crusts ; the condition spreads on to the parts around the mouth.—Begin treatment with an antiseptic porous ointment (Lassar's paste with 2 per cent salicylic acid), or with zinc-ichthyol salve mvislin. When the surface is clean apply mild astringent lotions containing silver nitrate (gr. ii.), or black wash and olive oil mixed in equal parts. Type 2. The lips, especially the loiver one, are much swollen, dry, and red; the cuticle covering the lips is peeling, cracked, and even deeply fissured.—This is an extremely rebellious affec- tion. In the writer's experience the only treatment which has given good results is that suggested by Kaposi. It consists in painting the lips with a 30 per cent solution of caustic potash in water, and immediately after neutralising the alkali with vinegar or dilute acetic acid. For a few days after this operation the swelling of the lips is increased, but this is followed by a marked lessening of the inflammatory symptoms and reduction in the size of the lips. Unna's ich- thyol varnish is a valuable addition to Kaposi's treatment. When the oedema following the application of the alkali has subsided, the varnish should be painted on the lips every night. It is not suitable for application by day unless the patient is confined to the house. Eyelids.—These are specially prone to be affected in scrofulous children with chronic inflammation, in which the exudate is apt to be purident, and is peculiarly rich in fatty products from the Meibomian glands. Mercurial ointments hold unquestionably the first place in the treatment of this affection. The unguentum hydrargyri acidi nitrosi dil. (B.P.) in the pro- portion of 3j--5iss. to 5j- of lard is usually sufficient to cure the disease. The application of a solution of silver nitrate in distilled water (gr. x.-xv. to the gj.) may be necessary in very rebellious cases.