GRINDELWALD 524 Grindelwa,ld. ^SeeTherapeutics, Health Resorts {Stintzerland). Grinders' Rot. See Lungs, Pneumono- KONiosis {Bust of Inorganic Origin). Grippe, La.. (S*?? Influenza (i/^wtorica^). GrOCCO'S Triang^ie. — A triangular paravertebral area of dullness found in cases of pleurisy on the opposite side to that on which there is the pleural effusion; it is not due to a second effusion. Groin, Tiie. Anatomy of ..... . 524 Diseases of . . . . . .525 Injuries of . . . . . .527 See also Hip-Joint, Injuries of ; Hip-Joint, Diseases of; Hernia, Inguinal, Femoral; Scro- tum AND Testicle, Diseases of {Hydrocele); etc. There is no region of the body in which a greater variety of lesions is to be met with than the groin, and here, if anywhere, a precise anatomical knowledge is of the greatest import- ance for diagnosis. The groin is not, like the axilla, a very definite anatomical region, but it may be regarded as forming the junction of the abdomen, pelvis, and thigh; and as being the area which includes Scarpa's triangle, Poupart's ligament, and the parts immediately adjacent.^ The skin of the groin is thin and delicate in texture, and the effects of abnormal distension, such as phlegmasia alba dolens, are shown by the presence of striae. Owing to the thinness of the skin the groin is a region selected for the inunction of drugs, e.g. mercurial ointments and cod-liver oil. I. Anatomy of the Groin The bony landmarks to be recognised are the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the anterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, and the spine and crest of the pubes. In thin individuals, and in those who have become emaciated, additional bony parts can be made out, such as the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, the portion of bone between it and the anterior superior spine, the upper part of the rim of the acetabulum, the head of the femur, especially on flexion and rotation outwards of the thigh, and part of the horizontal ramus of the pubes. Poupart's liga- ment is the lower border of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and extends, with its convexity downwards, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes; its reflection on to the pectinal line is known as Gimbernat's ligament. Poupart's liga- ment is relaxed when the thigh is flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards, and this fact should be borne in mind when the groin is being palpated. Be- ^ The general information which is given in this article will be supplemented in special articles, such as those upon "Hernia," "Aneurysm," etc. tween Poupart's ligament and the innominate bone are the structures which pass from the abdomen to the thigh, viz. psoas, iliacus, and pectineus muscles ; the femoral artery and vein ; and the external cutaneous, the anterior crural, and the crural branch of the genito-crural nerves. The inguinal canal, which contains the spermatic cord in the male and the round liga- ment of the uterus in the female, is about an inch and a half in length, has a direction down- wards and inwards, and is parallel to and a little above Poupart's ligament; it commences at the internal abdominal ring, which is half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament, and ends at the external ring, which lies immediately above, and internal to the spine of the pubes ; accordingly, the neck of an inguinal hernia lies internal to the spine of the pubes, while the neck of a femoral hernia lies external to this spine. The superficial fascia of the lower part of the abdomen and the upper part of the thigh is divisible into two layers, between which lie the superficial vessels and nerves. The superficial layer of this superficial fascia is thick and fatty, and in the male is continued over the penis and the outer surface of the cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. The super- ficial vessels which lie between the two layers of the superficial fascia are the principal ones which are divided in herniotomy. The deep layer of the superficial fascia is a thin fibrous layer, and lies upon the fascia lata to which it is adherent at the lower margin of Poupart's ligament. Ex- tra vasated urine may pass from the scrotum to the abdomen between the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia to the sym- physis pubis and the pubic spine. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata lies an inch and a half below and external to the pubic spine, and is covered by the cribriform fascia, which is regarded by some anatomists as being a part of the deep layer of the superficial fascia. The deep fascia, or the fascia lata, forms a complete investment for the thigh, and its attachments in the groin are to the crest of the ilium, Poupart's ligament, the body of the pubes, and the descending ramus of the pubes ; its iliac portion is that part of the fascia which lies external to the saphenous open- ing, at the lower margin of which it is continuous with the pubic portion. The crural or femoral sheath, a fascial arrangement which invests the femoral vessels as they pass below Poupart's ligament, consists in front of a continuation downwards of the fascia transversalis, and behind of the fascia iliacus. In addition, it is covered in front by the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata lies behind it. The sheath is funnel-shaped, being broader above than below ; it is divided into three compartments by two thin septa; the femoral artery occupies the outermost compart- ment, the femoral vein lies in the middle, and the innermost compartment.—-known as the