GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 447 in. impregnated alternately. When the half in which the foetus lies is rudimentary in its development the case is clinically one of extra- uterine gestation. The uterus unicornis is due to the absence of one Miillerian duct; sometimes, however, the name is also given to the anomaly in which the second horn is not altogether absent, Init e.xists as a solid or hollow rudiment, representing an imperfect development of one Mullerian duct. The uterus unicornis inclines to one side, and tapers to a point which is continuous with the Fallopian tube, and is marked by the attachment of the round ligament. The cervix and vagina are usually small and poorly developed. The diagnosis is rarely made during life, for menstruation and even pregnancy may occur normally; but pregnancy in the rudimentary horn attached to the uterus \inicornis is a serious cir- cumstance, having all the prognostic significance of ectopic gestation, rup- ture usually taking place into the peritoneal cavity. The term uterus rudimentarius has no very precise pathological significa- tion, for it has been applied to the cases in which the organ was reduced to a strip of muscular tissue lying between the layers of the broad liga- ment (litems memhrcmiform or mem- branaceus), to those in which there was a fair-sized fibro-muscular uterus, but without a cavity or with a very incomplete one [uterus solidvs, uterus partim excavatus), and to those in which the foetal or the infantile char- acters of the organ were retained in adult life {uterus fatalis, uterus pubesceus. The complete absence of the uterus in an individual otherwise female is a very rare occurrence, and the con- dition diagnosed clinically as absence of the uterus (vferus de.ficiens) is gener- ally one or other of the forms of rudi- mentary uterus. In all these conditions there are often found to be other defects of the genital apparatus, such as imperforate vagina, rudi- mentary ovaries, ill-developed mammary glands, and absence of hair on the mons. Glinically there is generally amenorrha'a, but in the fa-tal and infantile types there may be a scanty and painful discharge ; there is always sterility, and commonly dyspareunia; and should normal ovaries be present there will be so much periodic pain as to necessitate the consideration of the question of their removal. The diagnosis of tiie anomaly can only be made by a careful vcsico- vagino - abdominal examination of the pelvic contents ; in the absence of a perforate vagina a recto-vesico-abdominal examination will be required. In the case of the fatal and infantile uterus attempts to stimulate growth by means of ferruginous tonics, intra-uterine stem pessaries, and electricity, have been made and occasionally have obtained a certain measure of success : but in tlie more marked forms of the rudimentary uterus the removal of the ovaries is generally indicated if the sufferings of the jsatient from ovulation are severe. Congenital anteflexion and retroflexion (jf the uterus have been regarded by some as mal- formations ; it is probably more correct to look upon tiiem as the results of foetal disease (fu'tal YY- TT- Fig. 9.—Diagram of tlie tubes, uterus and vagina in rlifferent uiamnials, repre- senting also the malformations which occur in man. I. Double uterus and vagina (some marsupials); II. double uterus, vagina partly divided by septum (rabbit); III. uterus single below but double above (most rodents and cheiroptera); IV. uterus single but with two horns (uterus bicornis of ungulata and carnivora); V. single uterus (man and apes); VI. uterus with rudiuientary cornu (uterus unicornis cum cornu rudimentario of man). The uterus unicornis of man is not figured. (Fothergill.) peritonitis), or of pelvic peritonitis in childhood. They are attended by menstrual suftering (scanty and painful), by sterility or early abor- tion, and b}' \'arious reflex phenomena; and are very rebellious to treatment. Congenital pro- lapsus uteri is a very rarely observed condition ; so far all the cases recorded (about a dozen) have been accompanied by lumV)0-sacral spina bifida which has been the cause of early death. IVie malformations of the vagina in many respects resemble those of the uterus. Double vagina, for instance, is due, like double uterus, to want of fusion of the Mullerian ducts. A septum, more or less complete, divides the vagina into two lateral canals (I'arely into two canals l^'ing antero-posteriorly). In the least- marked degree there is only a ridge on the VI.