28 ECZEMA its own inherent expansive power, and not by reason of anything which is added to the water. We have now to consider the circumstances whicli inflnence the resistive power, or, in other words, the nervous control of the skin. 1. Age and sex affect the origin and develop- ment of eczema only so far as they modify the physiological state of the skin. The skin, like the cortex of the brain, gradually acquires the power of control, passing through the immaturity of infancy, the revolutionary and transitional state of adolescence, the maturity of manhood, and, finally, the senility of old age. The control over the capillaries and arterioles varies in each of these periods, being defective during infancy, unstable during adolescence, forcible during manhood, and weak but stable during old age. On the evidence of these jjhysiological facts alone we should be led to conclude that the intrinsic eczemas are especially prevalent during early childhood, common in adolescence, less so during manhood, and still less frequent in old age. The evidence of statistics of hospital and private skin clinics in large cities is much in accordance with this a p^-iori reasoning. There is, however, one apparent contradiction, for clinical experience undoubtedly reveals a notable increase in the proportion of cases of eczema during adult life, at the very time when we should have supposed the neuro-vascular control to have been greatest. But this apparent exception is in reality an additional proof of the conclusions arrived at above. Taking Dr. Bulkley's statistics of 5216 cases of eczema, we find in his private practice the proportion of cases occurring between the ages of thirty and fifty to be 501 males and 265 females, while in his hospital clinic the ratio for the same period was 372 males and 431 females. The inference to be drawn from these facts, which agree in the main with the experience of other dermatologists, is that the prevalence of eczema during adult life is due partly to the abuse of the nerve-controlling apparatus which the struggle for existence entails, but also to the greatly extended relations of the men and women who have to purchase their existence at the price of incessant daily toil. Thus, while it is physiologically true that the nervous control is at its height during man- hood, it is also true that the irritation and dangers to which the skin is liable have enormously increased. 2. Inherited Variations in the Neurility of the Skin.— The term neurility, which was introduced by Lewes and adopted by Vulpian to express the property of nerves to be excited, I employ here to denote the irritability of the combined neuro-vascular apparatus of the skin. No fact has more impressed itself on my mind during my professional career than the wide variations in the character of the human skin. It seems, like the brain cortex, to have an individuality of its own. Indeed the skin and brain cortex often share certain characteristics in common. Nor is this to be wondered at when we call to remembi'ance the fact that, from an embryological standpoint, the brain is an ottshoot of the cutaneous epithelium. There is a type of skin in which it is difficult to obtain a neuro-vascular reaction by external irritation, in which the neuro-vascular apparatus pays, as it were, very little attention to the perturbations which are transpiring around it. We can handle these skins, therapeutically, with freedom, and apply powerful stimulants with little or no risk of provoking a serous inflammation. This type of a quiet skin may suiier from psoriasis, rarely from moist eczema. A type of a very different sort is afforded by persons of a predominantly nervous character, or with a strongly developed tendency to arthi'itic rheumatism. Such persons carry about with them a sponge-like neuro-vascular appa- ratus which feels and moves with every external and internal perturbation. Individuals with hypersensory-motor skins of this type are ever liable to catarrh, because they are always too much exposed to injury. If they drive in the wind, or sit in the sunshine, or swim in the sea on a sunny day, they are apt to develop an irritable eczema. We may cure the eruption over and over again, but not the tendency; that only yields to thinning of the cortex, or to the dulling of nerve sensibility, the consequence of old age. Another variation in the neurility of the skin, and in its way one no less characteristic, is met with in scrofulous young persons. This character is to the skin what melancholia is to the " mental cortex," and essentially consists in the slow rate of change from one capillary state to another. It is in skins of this type that we so frequently find chronic rebellious, circum- scribed patches of eczema, especially in the neighbourhood of the eyes, nose, mouth, and ears in young persons. 3. Acquired Variatioofis in the Neurility of the Skin which increase its Liability to Surface Injury.—That the skin may pass from the normal stable condition into one less stable and less able to resist injury, is a fact amply supported by clinical observations, although the steps by which this degeneration takes place are not yet discovered. When eczema is seen to follow some outstanding pathological or physiological event, such as mental shock, pregnancy, a fit of the gout, the cutting of teeth, gastrointestinal irritation, nephritis, etc., the constitutional dis- order is dogmatically affirmed to be the " cause " of the eczema. Many such cases have been collected together by Dr. Bulkley of New York in a valuable paper. He records and cites some remarkable cases following psychical shock, reflex nerve disturbance from the mouth (teeth),