468 GLAUCOMA impaired. When sumDioned to the case the surgeon probably finds the conjunctiva much injected, and the eyelids, in severe cases, some- what swollen. The subconjunctival vessels are engorged, especially as regards the circum- corneal zone and the main trunks connected with it. The cornea is more or less wanting in polish, and if high tension has already persisted some days its sensitiveness to touch is dimi- nished. The pupil is more or less dilated, totally inactive, and sometimes somewhat oval; the dilatation in conjunction with the injection of the eye should at once arouse a suspicion of glaucoma. The anterior chamber is usually shallow. The eyeball is decidedly too hard under the finger test, and this fact establishes the diagnosis. The vision of the eye may in the course of a few days, or even sooner, be reduced to a mere perception of light near to the middle of the field, or it may be totally extinguished. Ophthalmoscopic examination is usually prevented by the cloudiness of the cornea; but, if visible, the retinal arteries will be seen to be somewhat reduced in size and perhaps pulsating, the veins engorged, and, at their point of emergence from the disc, collaps- ing with each arterial pulse. Hsemorrhages are sometimes discoverable in the retina. Such an acute attack, unless relieved by treatment, will commonly last for several weeks and then slowly subside, but though the more prominent symptoms disappear, the eye remains hard and the remnant of sight is gradually lost. The most acute cases have been termed fulminating from the violence of their onset; the less acute form a connecting link with the subacute variety. The more acute the attack the greater the need for prompt and efficient treatment if sight is to be saved. Subacute primary glaucoma resembles the acute form, but is milder and for a while in- termittent. At first there may be merely temporary periods of mistiness and rainbow vision. Sooner or later the recurrences become more frequent, the intermissions less complete, and a persistent congestive glaucomatous con- dition is established. Blindness comes on less rapidly than during acute glaucoma, but not less surely. These congestive forms of the disease are spoken of by many writers as in- flammatory glaucoma, and it is true that in- flammation attends their course; but, seeing that the condition is essentially one of mechanical obstruction, and not of primary inflammation, the term is apt to mislead, and is on that account objectionable. Chronic primary glaucoma (simple glaucoma) is apt to pass unnoticed even by the patient in its first stage, and may be mistaken by the medical man for simple atrophy of the optic nerve. It begins almost imperceptibly, pro- gresses slowly with little tendency to exacer- bation or remission, and leads, in the course of months or years, unless arrested by treatment, to total blindness. The patient is usually at least fifty years of age. He complains of failing sight in one eye or in both. One eye is usually affected first, the other almost always follows sooner or later. There is usually no history of periodic obscuration, and the onset of the disorder cannot be exactly dated. It sometimes appears to have been preceded by a period of mental strain of some kind. Ex- ternally, the eyes exhibit little or nothing- amiss. The chief anterior ciliary vessels may be somewhat enlarged, the anterior chamber rather shallow. One or both pupils may be somewhat dilated, but this is not a constant symptom. An eye already blind through chronic glaucoma may have a pupil which is equal to that of the seeing eye, and which acts consensually with it. The lens, on simple inspection, may appear to be more or less cataractoiis, and yet, when examined with the ophthalmoscope, prove to be quite transparent. Mistakes of diagnosis from this cause are not in- frequent and are very unfortunate, for a delay which may be wise in the case of cataract is disastrous in the presence of glaucoma. The diagnosis depends chiefly on the tension of the eye, the field of vision, and the condition of the disc. The tension is increased, but in some cases, especially in the earlier stage, the increase may be very slight and at times absent. When possible, it should be tested at different times of day. The same eye may be quite normal to the touch at one time, distinctly tense at another. It is usiially towards night, when the patient is fatigued, that the increase is most perceptible. In the later stages the eye may become extremely hard, and yet, by reason of the slow progress of the disorder, there may be no pain and little external sign of disease. The field of vision will show, when mapped by means of the perimeter, the characteristic and gradually increasing contraction which has been described. The optic disc will show the typical glaucoma cup. The course of the disease is slow, and in exceptional cases may even extend over many years before the stage of complete blindness is reached. Absolute Glaucoma.—When the eye has lost perception of light in all parts of the field the glaucoma is said to be absolute, and in this stage the ultimate effects of high pressure are gradually developed. If the glaucoma have been acute or subacute, the disturbances of the eye remain very obvious. The external vessels are large and tortuous, and stand out prominently in the atrophied conjunctiva; the cornea is hazy, its epithelium thickened, and its sensibility lowered or abolished ; the iris, if visible, is seen as a narrow circle by reason of the wide dilatation of the pupil, and it may be visibly in contact with the cornea; enlarged blood - vessels may be visible on its surface; the lens degenerates and