GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 446 ova, but it is also in all probability a structure which secretes a product without which perfect health is impossible. Complete absence of both ovaries is rare except in monstrosities, even uni- lateral absence is uncommon ; but a rudimentary state of the glands is more frequent. Rudi- mentary ovaries show only a small number of ill-developed ovisacs in a considerable quantity of connective tissue; and they are not \in- commonly displaced into the inguinal canals, or lie at a higher level than is normal. The clinical importance of these defective conditions depends greatly upon their unilateral or bilateral character; in the former case reproductive activity may be little interfered with; in the latter the secondary sexual characters will be absent, the menstrual function will not be established, and sterility will be inevitable. There may also be associated morbid states, such as epilepsy, chlorosis, and the like. The diagnosis is often impossible without a lapar- otomy, although there may be a strong pre- sumption in favour of defective ovaries. It has to be borne in mind that the uterus may be normal. Accessory or, more correctly, constricted ovaries are to be found in from two to three per cent of autopsies : they are about as large as a pea, and are generally attached to the normal ovary by a pedicle ; they may contain Graafian follicles, and are due either to foetal peritonitis causing separation of a piece of the ovary or to budding of the primitive sexual gland; and their presence probably accounts for the persist- ence of menstruation or the occurrence of pregnancy after a double ovariotomy or oophor- ectomy. Congenital hernia of the ovary is nearly always inguinal, for, through the persistence of the canal of Nuck, the gland passes down into the inguinal canal and may reach the labium inajus; in such cases the swelling in the groin is subject to periodic monthly enlargement, a circumstance which makes the diagnosis of its nature possible. It may give rise to much pain and to reflex phenomena, and must then be excised. It is often associated with the viterus unicornis and hernia of the Fallopian tube, as has recently been brought out by Browne [Trans. Anier. Gyn. Soc. xxiii. 352, 1898). The malformations of the Fallopian tubes can hardly be diagnosed during life save by the opening of the abdomen. Both tubes may be absent, but more commonly one alone is wanting, and then it is frequently found that there is also a uterus unicornis and unilateral absence of the ovary. The tubes also may be present in a rudimentary or solid, condition, an anomaly which is practically equivalent to their absence. The spiral convolutions which normally exist in antenatal life may persist as abnormal twists in adult life; possibly they may be the caiises of dysmenorrhoea and sterility. Accessory tubal ostia and tufts of fimbrise are not uncommon (three to six per cent); as many as six have been seen in one case ; they are usually situated near the outer end of the tube; and it has been thought that they may sometimes be the cause of extra-uterine gestation. The malformations of the uterus may be divided into those showing apparent excess in formation, those due to defect, and those due to displace- ment. With the exception of the extremely rare trijid or accessory uterus, the various forms of double uterus are only apparently due to excessive formation; they are really defective developments, being caused by more or less complete want of fusion of the portions of the two Mtillerian ducts which normally unite to make the single uterus. The most complete want of fusion is seen in the uterus didelphys, s. duplex. In it there appear to be two single uteri lying side by side, but each possessing only one ovary and tube ; there may also be two vaginal canals and a double opening in the hymen. The uterus bicornis is a much com- moner type ; in it the upper part of the uterine body is evidently separated into two horns or halves, while the lower jjart of the body and the cervix are single; in its most marked form the two horns are wide apart, and between them passes a band (recto-vesical) from the bladder to the rectum ; but in the slightest degree there is only a notch or groove at the fundus to indicate externally the double nature of the oi'gan [uterus cordiformis). One or both horns may be imperforate, and the cervical canal may be double or single. In its external appearances the uterus sejAus or bilocularis gives no indi- cation of its double character, yet it is divided more or less completely into two cavities by an internal septum running usually antero- posteriorly. The septum may be present in the whole extent of the organ from fundus to external os, or it may be absent above and present below, or vice versa, or yet again the septum may be incomplete in the middle. There may also be a certain degree of rotation of the uterus so that the cavities come to lie antero- posteriorly. All the forms of double uterus are difficult of diagnosis, the conditions with which they are most apt to be confounded being fibroid tumours and extra - uterine pregnancy. The occurrence of a regular menstrual discharge every fortnight will excite suspicion, and then the physical examination may reveal a double cervical orifice, or the sound may pass into a douVjle cavity; but many times the malformation has not been discovered till labour has come on and called for manual interference, for the double uterus does not entail sterility, although it may predispose to malpresentations. Preg- nancy may occur in one half of the double uterus and menstruation may continue from the other, or decidual membranes may form in it; preg- nancy may also occur in both horns simultane- ously, or at different but not widely separate dates ] or again the two horns may become