85 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN tion of the otocyst (Fig. 11). The greater part of the medullary groove, therefore, is now closed in to form the medullary canal; the part posterior to the hind-brain is not yet differentiated into the spinal cord. Between the fore - brain and the attachment of the umbilical vesicle, and lying in a large pericardial space, is the prominent heart, which consists of an inner tube formed of endothelial elements, and an outer tube of contractile elements, which ultimately form the heart muscle. This heart tube is asymmetrically bent: from the point where the great veins enter it, it runs towards the head and left side, making the auricular limbs ; then it turns to the ventral side and obliquely to the right, forming the ventricular limb; and then takes a curving course to the median line, forming the aortic limb, and ends close behind the mouth. Between the two heart tubes (endocardial and myocardial) is a considerable space ; and the inner or endothelial tube is continuous at one end with the walls of the veins and at the other with those of the aorta. We note, therefore, that by this date the two endothelial tubes, which represented the heart in the second week, have fused into or become one. From the aortic limb (outside the pericardial sac) arises the aorta, which divides into two branches on each side which, as the aortic arches, pass round the pharynx. The front branch on each side curves over and joins the second, to form one of the two dorsal aortis. The dorsal aortse pass towards the caudal end of the embryo ; about midway they fuse into one dorsal aorta, which near the tail bifurcates into two vessels (the allantoic or umbilical arteries), which pass through the Bauchstiel (or allantoic stalk) to the chorion. In an earlier stage, doubtless, the dorsal aorta; pass, without fusing, to the umbilical vesicle as vitelline arteries, but of this Ave have insuffici- ent evidence from human embryos. The veins which proceed to the heart consist of the cardinal, the jugular, the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline, and the umbilical. On each side of the body the jugular vein (from the head end of the embryo) joins the cardinal vein (from the tail end) to form the ductus Cuvieri, which passes into the sinus venosus and through it into the heart. The ductus Cuvieri is joined by the umbilical or allantoic vein of the same side, which comes from the chorion by way of the Bauchstiel, and then takes, as Minot says, a short cut through the somatopleiu-e along the base of the amnion. The ompbido-mesenteric or vitelline vein opens into the sinus venosus. There is as yet no trace of the inferior vena cava, and, since nothing more than a slight evagination or outgrowth from the fore-gut represents the liver, the veins have not the complicated liepatic relations which they after- wards develop. AVith regard to the intestine or embryonic part of the archenteron at this age, it is to be noted that it is divided into three parts. Of these the fore-gut is expanded anteriorly into the wide primitive pharynx with two gill- pouches. The middle portion communicates freely with the umbilical vesicle, and shows the anlage of the liver just where it is con- tinuous with the fore-gut. The posterior portion is distinct from the umbilical vesicle, and ends in a dilatation (His' bursa), and from the under FiQ. 11.—Embryo at the beyiuniii^' of the third week, seen in section. Enlarged about 37 times. (After His.) surface of this dilatation arises the allantoic diverticulum which passes into the Bauchstiel {vkle His' Embryo Lg, Figs. 10 and 11). As already stated, the fore-gut is shut off from the oral invagination by the oral plate (Rachen- haut). At this period (beginning of third week after im25regnation) the notochord can be seen dis- tinctly, flanked with a varying number of proto- vertebrte, or, to use Minot's more correct term, primitive segments. These primitive segments, which perhaps even at this age show a division into the myotome next to the medullary canal and the nephrotome (or intermediate cell mass) which lies distally, vary in number from fifteen (Kollmann's specimen) to twenty-nine (His' Embryo Lg). One of the most remarkable