ELBOW-JOINT, REGION OF, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF 52 Should the effusion become considerable, aspiration from one of the prominent pouches by the side of the olecranon will give relief and may be repeated. After the acute stage passes off, massage, elastic compression, and passive movement may be continued till the stiffness has passed off. Acute Septic or Suppurative Arthritis is characterised by the addition to the symptoms of simple synovitis of great oedema around the joint and for a considerable distance from it, of the redness of the skin, rigors, and of high fever, with the usual profound constitutional disturb- ance attending marked septic intoxication. In such cases the treatment must be active and immediate. Free incisions on each side of the olecranon will enable the joint to be irrigated with an antiseptic solution, while the limb is immobilised on an angular splint at an angle somewhat less than 90°. Since ankylosis in such a case is to be feared, it is well to have the arm in that position in which it will be most useful when fixed. Drain- age of the joint will require to be continued till the acute process has subsided, and, should this take place in a few days before disorganisation of the joint has occurred, it may be permissible to aim at securing movement by altering the position of the limb occasionally so as to stretch adhesions. Early free movements of the joint are to be avoided as tending to keep up the inflammatory mischief. Only when such can be practised without causing much pain is good likely to accrue, since only then has the inflammatory action subsided. Massage and douching, with passive movement coi:itinued over a long period, will in some cases give a movable joint, but in the great majority of cases the suppuration is attended with such a disorganisation of the joint that in healing ankylosis is a necessary result. Scarlatinal and Rheumatic Arthritis differ in no respect from a similar condition in other joints; the local treatment is that of acute and subacute synovitis, with special attention, how- ever, to the constitutional dyscrasia. GoNORRHCEAL ARTHRITIS of the elbow presents the usual features of an acute or subacute syno- vitis, and, as usual, is not amenable to treat- ment until the urethral trouble is rectified. Subacute Synovitis is less commonly met with in the elbow than in some other joints, and presents the usual characteristics — the effusion, aching pain, and thickening of the synovial membrane and capsule. The treatment consists of rest with the use of blisters, or, if much effusion exists, of aspiration, elastic bandaging, and massage. In the more chronic forms it has lately been recommended to incise the joint and dissect away as much of the thickened synovial mem- brane as possible, after which the joint is to be washed out and the wound closed without drainage if possible (Treves). Chronic Inflammatory Diseases. Tuber- culous Disease.—This disease is by far the most common and important one of the elbow. Of all cases of tuberculous joints it may be roughly estimated that about 7 per cent are of the elbow-joint. The disease may be met with at all ages, though it is usually met with in early life between the ages of three years and puberty. The disease is, however, not uncommon in old people, in whom it is characterised by a tendency to progress unfavourably, and often rapidly so. The mischief may be primarily synovial, but in the elbow is less commonly so than in other joints. Statistics suggest that in about three- fourths of the cases the tuberculous focus will be found in one or other of the bones entering into the formation of the joint. The olecranon is a frequent seat of primary mischief, next in order is the humerus, while last and much less frequently affected is the head of the radius. In early life, before the age of five, and in old age the disease is usually primarily syn- ovial. The bone affection may be recognised by the formation of an enlargement and some tender- ness at one part of the bone, and later, as the tubercle approaches the surface, by the skin becoming oedematous, tuberculous, or it may be by a localised abscess. Early evacuation of such a tuberculous focus may prevent the joint becoming involved. When the general synovial membrane be- comes affected an unmistakable clinical picture is presented which is most marked in the young, and is characterised by the following signs and symptoms. In the early stage there may be little com- plaint of pain, attention being drawn by an increasing swelling and stiffness of the joint. The swelling is most noticeable by the sides of the olecranon and varies within wide degrees. In children it is as a rule most marked, and gradually masks all the bony prominences in a diffuse globular swelling. This swelling, when occurring with great rapidity, is usually due to synovial effusion, ultimately it is due to the pulpy thickening of the synovial membrane. In acute cases the swelling is increased by oedema of the superficial structures, by the for- mation of tuberculous foci outside the capsule of the joint, and it may be by the formation of a chronic or subacute abscess in or in the vicinity of the joint. In those cases where the disease is primarily osteal there may be corresponding enlargement of the bone with alteration in the configuration of the joint. Swelling is often not at all a marked feature