176 ERYSIPELAS seldom exceeds 100. The tongue is foul, the breath heavy, and the bowels usually constipated, although in some cases there is diarrhoja with offensive, dark-coloured stools. Locally spots of redness appear near the seat of infection, and rapidly coalesce into a diffuse red patch, from which thin red streaks may pass towards the nearest lymphatic glands, which are found to be enlarged and tender. The reddened area, which varies in hue from a bright scarlet to a dull brick red, gradually increases in size, spreading now in one direction and then in another, with varying rapidity. The spread does not follow the direction of the lymph stream, but is supposed to be regulated to some extent by the linear furrows of the skin; and certainly it seems often to be arrested at points where the skiia forms deep attachments to underlying fasciae, e.g. at Poupart's ligament, in the palms and soles, at the chin and nape of the neck. The margins of the patch are slightly raised above the surrounding skin, as may be recog- nised by lightly passing the fingers over the skin from the healthy on to the inflamed area. The whole surface is cedematous, especially in parts where the subjacent cellular tissue is lax and open, as in the eyelids, scrotum, labia, or on the chest wall. The skin is smooth, tense, and glossy, and blebs containing clear yellow serum frequently form over areas of intense inflam- mation. The deep lymphatic trunks may often be felt as firm cords. The patient complains of a burning sensation in the skin, and the inflamed area is tender to the touch. It is found on careful examination that the most tender area lies in a zone about half an inch beyond the raised red mai'gin, a point of some clinical importance, as indicating the extent and direction of the spread, which is often found to take place irregularly. The temperature of the affected part is markedly raised. The usual gastro-intestinal derangements, associated with infective and pyrexial conditions, are present; and the urine is scanty, high- coloured, loaded with urates, and often albumin- ous. There is often pain over the kidney, and the spleen may be found to be enlarged. Noctui'nal delirium, with restlessness and delusions, is common, especially when the disease attacks the face or scalp. The duration of the disease varies from two to three days to as many weeks; and relapses are by no means infrequent, each recrud- escence being accompanied by a fresh rise of temperature. Death may take place from toxjemia, from the process spreading to important organs, such as the brain or its membranes, or from exhaus- tion when the disease is prolonged or when relapses occur. Clinical Types of Erysipelas.—Certain dis- tinctive clinical features are to be recognised in connection with erysipelas according to—(1) the severity of the attack ; (2) the part of the body and the structure of the tissues implicated; and (3) various aberrant characters it may assume. 1. (a) In its mildest or erythematous form the disease produces a diffuse superficial reddening of the skin, with but slight swelling. There are no bullse formed, and desquamation does not follow. ijji) When the inflammation is more intense the bullous variety of the disease is produced, in which blisters containing a clear yellow serum form under the cuticle. The contents of these bulke may readily become infected with pyogenic bacteria from the skin, and form the starting- point of a diff'use septic cellulitis. When the contents of the bullte are hfemorrhagic it indi- cates a grave prognosis. (c) In rare instances the inflammatory reaction is so intense that patches of the skin become gangrenous (gangrenous erysipelas). 2. {a) The face is the commonest situation on the body for erysipelas {facial erysipelas). It visually begins about the alee of the nose, and spreading over the face, assumes a "butterfly" outline. The scalp is as a rule implicated as far back as the nape of the neck, but the dis- ease usually stops at the chin, and almost never extends on to the front of the neck. There is great cedematous swelling of the eyelids, so that the eyes are often completely closed ; and bullae ai'e liable to form on the cheeks and brow. Epistaxis is a not infrequent symptom. Men- ingitis and sinus thrombosis are dangers to be reckoned with, and may be suspected when vomiting with constant headache, irritability, and nocturnal delirium occur. Stupor or con- vulsions ensue in fatal cases. Transient mental aberrations, peripheral neuritis, and ataxic symptoms frequently follow on recovery from these complications. The process may spread to the eye or ear, and produce more or less serious disturbance of function in those organs. (6) In infants erysipelas sometimes attacks the region of the umbilicus before the stump of the cord has separated, and may spread widely over the trunk {E. neonatorum). (c) When the disease affects the scrotum a diffuse boggy swelling of the whole perineum results, and the local appearances of extrava- sation of urine are closely simulated. Pyogenic infection is common, leading to cellulitis and sloughing. {(].) Any mucous membrane, but especially those adjacent to skin surfaces,—such as the buccal, nasal, pharyngeal, rectal, or vaginal,— are liable to erysipelatous inflammations, which may originate on either the cutaneous or the mucous surface. The most important variety of this class is erysipelas of the fauces, because of the danger of