ECTOPIC GESTATION 17 place from the eighth to the twelfth week, in that it is much less serious in its results and I lie patient usually recovers. Early rupture may occur at any part of the tube, except at the fimbriated extremity, but the most common site is at the istlunus, i.e. just where the tube becomes free from the uterine wall. This early rupture has been shown to occur in cases where the tube is atrophic, and specimens removed have demonstrated the fact that in these cases the usual primary thickening of the tubal wall has not taken place. These facts obviously account for the occurrence of this early rupture. Such cases are characterised by the suddenness with which the symptoms come on. There is no previous warning, but the patient becomes rapidly collapsed, and shows all the signs of internal hfemorrhage. The patient majr, however, speedily recover without any active interference. (6) Later Rupture.—If the ovum escapes the possibilities of " early rupture " or the formation of a " tubal mole" it is certain that " later ruptiu'e" will occur. This takes place, as we have already stated, between the 8th and 12th weeks. This rupture is nearly always associated with haemorrhage more or less severe, the amount depending on the relation of the placenta to the exact seat of rupture. When the rupture involves the placental site, or causes separation of the placenta, the lucmorrhage is severe, though not necessarily immediately fatal. If, on the other hand, the attenuated tubal wall alone is torn the bleeding may be slight or even absent altogether. Owing to the anatomical relations of the tube there are practically onl}' two directions in which the blood effused from a rupture may be cxtravasated, and these are :— 1. Into the peritoneal cavity, and 2. Between the layers of tlie broad ligament. In the former case the lia3morrliage may be so severe and so rapid as to prove immediately fatal to the mother, but in some cases, when the bleeding is more gradual, a hsematocele, to a certain extent encapsulated by a plastic peri- tonitis being set up around it, is formed. If, however, there is further bleeding the capsule of this hajmatocele may in turn give way, and the abdominal cavity may rapidly be filled with blood. This form of luematocele is quite distinct from that occurring from a "tubal mole," in which the hix^morrhage from the abdominal ostium is so gradual that a capsule is formed consisting not only of pcritonitic adhesion, but also of organised blood-clot. In the second case, when the haimorrhage occurs between the layers of the broad ligament, it is not nearly so profuse, being now cxtra- vasated into the interstices of a cellular tissue. This very soon becomes firm owing to the coagulation of the effused blood, and constitutes an effectual barrier to further hfcmorrhage. VOL. Ill The Foetus after Rujiture.—No matter whether the matter be intra- or extra-peritoneal, the foetus in most cases follows the course of the haimorrhage and escapes through the rent, and the pregnancy now becomes either tubo-abdo- minal or tubo-ligamentary. It has been a matter of dispute luider what conditions the fa3tus may survive after rupture, some authorities holding that for the continuance of its life the amnion at least must remain intact. Others, however, believe that even this is imnecessary, and aver that it may develop even to full term while lying free in the abdominal cavity. 1. When the pregnancy becomes tubo- abdominal, the foetus having escaped into the abdominal cavity, it may, if it survive the rupture of the tube, go on to full term. At or about that time, if not delivered by abdominal section, it succumbs and xmdergoes various changes. On the other hand, and more conmionly, the foetus dies at the time of rupture, and if the mother survive those changes merety occur at an earlier date. For example, a dead embryo up to the second month lying free in the abdominal cavity may be completely absorbed. If it is beyond the second month it may— (rt) Decompose and form an abscess which may burst externally or into any neigh- bouring viscus. (A) Become mummified. ((•) Become calcified and form a lithopa'dion. {d) Be. converted into adipocere and form a lipopoedion. (f) Disappear partially, only the bones re- maining, forming an osteopoedion. 2. When the pregnancy becomes tubo- ligamentary the foetus may die, owing to the pressure exerted on the placental circulation by the blood-clot, and in this case it remains be- tween the layers of the broad ligament, and may undergo any of the above changes. But very often the htemorrhage after rupture is but slight, and the foetus continues to develop in its new situation. It gradually increases in size, but is largely confined to the pelvis by the limits of the broad ligament and by the placenta above it. In this position it is described as subperitoneo-pelvic. The pregnancy may continue in these rela- tions, but it is the exception that these cases should go on to full term. In the great majority of cases, either the foetus gradually separates the peritoneum from the abdominal wall, and grows up into the abdomen extra-peritoneally, when it is described as subperitoneo-abdominal, or what is known as secondary rupture occurs, that is to say, the broad ligament gives way and the foetus escapes into the abdominal cavity, exactly as in the case of primary tubo-abdominal rupture. Cases of secondary ruptiu-e are always extremely grave. In the case of a primary tubo-abdominal 2