GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 385 the perforation should be found and stitched, gall-stones if present removed, and the gall- bladder drained separately from the general cavity of the peritoneum. Fistula.—Fistula is a not infrequent com- plication of ulceration of the gall-bladder and bile ducts. Much more frequently the com- munication is between the surface of the body or the cavity of one of the hollow viscera and the gall-bladder, but communication with the larger ducts is not uncounnon. In the direct variety, where the channel is formed directly through local adhesions set up by the advancing ulceration, the communication is most frequently with one of the hollow viscera ; whereas, in the indirect variety, caused by the formation of an abscess outside the gall-bladder and a channel forming from this, the fistula more usually opens on the surface of the body. As might be expected from the anatomy of the parts the structures most commonly affected .are the duodenum and colon ; but fistulfe have been described between the liiliary passages and the stomach, the jejinium, the ileum, and the pelvis of the right kidney, while a number of cases have been described in which gall-stones have perforated into the thoi'ax. Biliary cutaneous fistula, like the other forms of fistula in connection with the bile passages, is most commonly a sequel of gall-stones, bvit may result from any of the causes which give rise to perforation of the bile channels, especi- ally when the perforation leads first to a localised abscess. When arising from suppura- tion in connection with the gall-bladder or bile ducts the fistula usually opens near the um- bilicus, the pus following the course of the obliterated umbilical vein, but the discharge may occur at any part of the abdominal wall. Occasionally a fistula persists after operation where the obstruction in the ducts has not been overcome, or the gall-bladder has been stitched to the skin instead of to the peritoneum and aponeurosis. Their importance varies according as only mucus or bile and mucus ai'e discharged, since in the former case only about one ounce of fluid is discharged daily, and this does not give rise to much inconvenience. Mucous fi.stuln occurs when the cystic duct is obstructed by the presence of a foreign body, or is occluded by stricture resulting from old ulceration. So long as there is free exit to the secretion there will only be the inconvenience arising from the necessity of constantly wearing some dress- ing to absorb the discharge; hwt if the orifice of the sinus be allowed to close, the accumula- tion produces pain, and it is necessary under these circumstances for the patient either to wear a small drainage-tube and an absorbent dressing or to submit to operation. Should operation be decided on, the course pursued will depend on the cause of the con- VOL. Ill dition. If there be an impacted calculus in the cystic duct, this should be removed ; but if the continuation of the discharge depends on stricture of the duct, the gall-bladder should either be excised or connected with the duo- denum by means of a Murphy's button. As a rule, in the latter case, cholecystectomy will be safer, since the gall-bladder, under these circum- stances, is frequently small, and cholecysten- terostomy in a case where there is a shrunken gall-ljladder is always difficult of performance. Biliary fistula is a much more serious mattei', because, in addition to the disability caused by thirty ounces or more of bile being discharged on to the skin daily, there is apt to be inter- ference with the general nutrition. This form of fistula arises from some obstruc- tion to the flow of bile in the common duct, most commonly fi-om an impacted stone, but occasionally from malignant disease of the head of the pancreas or of the common duct. Where possible the obstruction should be removed; but when it arises from malignant disease of the pancreas this is impossible, though when due to gall-stone in the common duct, it is as a rule advisable to perform choledochotomy. In the event of it being decided not to remove the obstruction, the best course open is to con- nect the gall-bladder with the duodenum, by performing cholecystenterostomy. Before opening the peritoneal cavity in any case of biliary cutaneous fistula it is well to purify the sinus as well as possible by curetting the granulating track. In a case definitel^y known to be due to a gall- stone in the ducts, before resorting to operative interference it may be well first to try for some time the effect of injecting olive oil, or a -S per cent solution of sapo animalis, by means of a flexible catheter introduced into the sinus, on to the obstruction two or three times daily, in the hope that by this means the concretion will be dissolved. Biliary-Intestinal Fistula.—Fistula between the bile ducts and some part of the gastro- intestinal tract is a fairly common complication of ulceration due to gall-stones, and frequently arises without any overt manifestations, the ulceration proceeding slowly through adhesions into the lumen of the stomach or gut, the gall- stones being discharged and the fistulous ti-ack healing spontaneously. In severtil cases which 1 have seen, and in others reported, the first indication of anything having happened has been the onset of acute intestinal destruction from the gall-stone becoming impacted low down in the bowel. But the process is not always accom- plished without symptoms, such as pain over the liver, more or less jaundice, a fever of irregular character, with, it may be, some hscmorrhage into the stomach or bowel, while there is always the possibility of perforative peritonitis. Ajjart from the comjalications spoken of and the subse- 25