GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDERS OF INFANCY 412 gested that the name should be reserved for those cases in which the stools have a rice-water appearance, but as this symptom does not, so far as our present knowledge goes, indicate any special bacteriological difference, and may or may not be present in cases which otherwise run an exactly similar course, there seems to be no reason for adopting this limitation. It will, of course, be understood that there is no connec- tion between so-called " cholera infantum " and Asiatic cholera. Symptoms.—These, as already mentioned, are characterised by their extreme severity and acuteness. In the worst cases, an infant, often well nourished and apparently in perfect health, is suddenly seized with diarrhoea. The stools, at first semi-liquid and yellowish, rapidly become thin and watery, sometimes brownish and very offensive, usually almost colourless, like rice- water, with very little smell. Vomiting is severe, all food is rejected almost directly it reaches the stomach. In a few hours the altera- tion in the face is striking, the plump pink cheeks have become pale and flabby, the eyes are deeply sunken, and the brows often knitted as if with pain. The fontanelle is deeply depressed, the tongue is dry and brownish red, and the infant is continually licking its lips in its distressful thirst. The abdomen is deeply hollowed out, and the skin over it lies in loose, wrinkled folds. The child flings its arms rest- lessly about, and rolls its head from side to side, or lies in an apathetic condition, taking no notice of its suiToundings, and gradually sink- ing into actual stupor. Respiration is often sighing; the temperature is usually high, but may be subnormal. The urine is diminished, and may even be suppressed for many hours, and often shows more or less albumin. After two or three days, or, in the worst cases, after only a few hours, exhaustion is ex- treme, the extremities become cold and blue, the face, and especially the nose, has a pinched look and grey colour, the pulse becomes very rapid, 180-200, and barely perceptible at the wrist, and the child dies. The course of the disease varies somewhat in different cases. The onset may be less acute than that described above; the infant is ailing for a few days with what appears to be a simple diarrhoea, and no alarm is felt until a sudden increase in the severity of the diarrhoea, with the appearance of watery colourless stools and the onset of uncontrollable vomiting, shows how serious the illness is. In other cases the choleraic symptoms supervene in the course of a chronic diari-hoea or intestinal indigestion which has lasted for many weeks or months, the temperature which has hitherto been normal suddenly rises, diarrhoea and vomiting are pro- fuse, and death occurs in a few days. {See also "Cholera Nostras," vol. ii. p. 125.) Chronic Diarrhosa is in many cases the sequel of acute diarrhoea, but it may occur independently of any acute attack, and may be quite insidious in its onset. In these insidious cases the diarrhoea is perhaps most often the result of faulty feeding; it is, in fact, the mani- festation of a chronic dyspepsia. In some there is also some constitutional defect present, some- times syphilis, but much more often rickets, which is so powerful a predisposing cause of catarrh of mucous membranes. Chronic diar- rhoea is not uncommon as a sequela of whooping- cough and of measles. In the children of the poor, exposure to cold and generally faulty hygiene play an important part in its produc- tion. Under this head come many of the cases of so-called " consumptive bowels," a vague, in- accurate term which it is to be hoped will die out ere long; very few of the cases to which it is applied show any tuberculous lesion, and many of those who use the term simply mean by it a disorder of the bowels associated with wasting. Chronic diarrhoea may be the resiilt of tuberculous ulceration of the intestine, but this is quite the exception in infancy. Symptoms.—The diarrhoea may have persisted since an acute attack, probably as a much slighter looseness of the bowels, which are open four or five times a day, with some undigested food in the feeces. But often no definite date can be assigned for its onset, and so insidious may it be, that the mother has only noticed the wasting, the condition of the bowels has not attracted her attention. On inquiry, it is found that the bowels are open too frequently, and the stools are unhealthy. The character of the stools varies considerably. In some cases of chronic diarrhoea the stools are semi-liquid, deep brown, and very offensive; in others they are pale yellowish or drab coloured, and pultaceous ; in others again there are small lumps of white curd mixed with very small pieces of dark green ffecal material very like chopped spinach. The green colour is probably due to the presence of biliverdin; alkaline decomposition in the in- testine changes bilirubin to biliverdin (Pfeiffer); the fseces may be acid when passed, but the acidity is not sufficient to change the colour. The suggestion that a specific micro-organism causes the colour (Lesage) lacks evidence. The presence of mucus, especially if stained with blood, points to affection of the colon, and if the blood occur in bright red streaks, it is probable that the lower portion is specially aftected. Those cases in which the colon is much involved are further distinguished by the presence of tenesmus, sometimes by some tender- ness over the large intestine, and also by a tendency to prolapse of the rectum, which is, however, more marked in children two to four years of age than in actual infancy. In all cases the general health suffers con- siderably. The infant, who was good-tempered and playful before, becomes fretful, miserable.