GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 379 has been more severe than in those cases wliere the mucous membrane was intact. Where thei'e are no constitutional symptoms the general con- dition of the patient may not deteriorate nuich, but if fever and great pain be present he will lose strength and weight. Immediately the diagnosis of empyema of the gall-bladder has been made, cholecystotomy or cholecystectomy should be performed, and drain- age of the abscess cavity must be continued till the discharge is sterile. If the condition of the patient is such as to permit of it, the cause of the obstruction in the duct should be removed ; but, in some cases where operative interference has been delayed, especially in the aged, it may be well to content one's self with drainage of the cyst, and to leave the removal of the cause to a later date. Phlegmonous cholecystitis is induced by a much more acute infection of the gall-bladder than that which gives rise to empyema, and consequently rvms a much more rapid course, usually termin- ating fatally in a few days ; though, if early operative treatment were in all cases adopted, there does not seem to be any reason why it should have a higher rate of mortality than has acute appendicitis. The gravity of the condition seems to depend on the ,fact that infective peri- tonitis is set up very rapidly before any local- ising adhesions have had time to form, the microbic contamination apparently arising with- out any direct gross communication between the interior of the gall-bladder and the peritoneum. In these cases the walls of the gall-bladder become rapidly swollen, soft, and a-dematous, the peritoneal coat loses its lustre, and thei-e rapidly supervenes an acute peritonitis originat- ing in the right upper part of the abdomen, leading to paresis of the intestinal coils located in that region, and giving rise to symptoms of intestinal obstruction. The gall-bladder will be more or less distended with muco-pus, and its surface will be purplish or even have a green tinge. If the patient survive, and nothing be done to relieve him, the gall-bladder will necrose in patches, but death may take place from septic peritonitis before this stage is reached. If death does not rapidly ensue, adhesions may form, limit the inflammatory disturbance, and lead to the formation of a localised abscess, which will follow a course similar to that of the abscess due to acute appendicitis. Generally acute infective chdlccystitis is as- sociated with cholelithiasis, but it has followed on cholecystitis occurring during typhoid and other fevers, and in some cases witiiout apparent cause. Si/mptoms.—Either as a sequel to a prolonged history of "spasms," or apparently spontane- ously, the patient is seized with sudden acute pain in the right hypochoudrium radiating to the epigastrium, and through to the right sub- scapular region, which rapidly spreads till the whole abdomen becomes affected. Associated with this are the usual signs at first of local, later of general peritonitis. In the earlier stages there are tenderness and some distension below the right costal margin, with rigidity of the right rectus, but soon there comes general ab- dominal tenderness and tympanites, though even in the later stages the tenderness is most intense in the right hypochondrium. As occurs in other cases of acute peritonitis, there are a rapid thready pulse, quick thoracic breathing, and more or less collapse. Before rupture has taken place the tempera- ture will usually be found elevated, Init when genei-al infection has occurred the temperature curve may give little indication of the patient's condition. As a rule there will be no jaundice, or only a trace, as the disease progresses too rapidly to permit of its appearance, but in the more chronic cases it may be present. Unless there is a previous histoi-y of gall-stone colic the diagnosis of the exact condition in phlegmonous cholecystitis is difficult, and usually it will only be possible to say there is acute peritonitis beginning in the right side of the abdomen. The site of the original pain ;ind the direction in which it radiates, together with the greater tenderness in the right hypochondrium, and the primary appearance of distension in that region, may help one to come to a decision. Fortunately the conditions which it simulates— fulminating appendicitis and perforation of some hollow viscus — demand the same initial treat- ment, viz. exploratory laparotomy. Treatment.—At the onset the pain is so severe that a hypodermic injection of morphine may be necessary. If the tenderness be not too great, local hot applications may be used, and all feeding by the mouth should be stopped. Whenever there is a fair presiunption that the case is one of phlegmonous cholecystitis, or, in the event of no accurate diagnosis being pos- sible, it is foiuid that the patient is gradually getting worse, and the evidence of peritonitis becomes more manifest, the abdomen should be opened. If gangrene has supervened, chole- cystectomy should be performed ; but if the disease has not progressed so far, it may be sufficient to aspirate the contents of the gall- bladder, then to open it and drain. The con- dition of the patient may be such that unless cholecystectomy can be easily accomplished it may not be wise to make an}^ attempt to remove the disease at the first operation. Should there be much peritonitis it may be wise at the same time to drain the right kidney pouch, cither by gauze introduced through the wound in the anterior abdominal wall, or by making a counter- opening in the loin. I have ojserated by chole- cystectomy in a considerable number of cases with the happiest results, so that it would be only in verj- extreme cases that I should think it wise to divide the operation into two parts (9).