I EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 89 an embryo which measured 4'.j mm. iu length and possessed thirty pairs of primitive segments. The sac formed by the decidua reflexa (cnpsn/aris s. cwcumflexa) measured 16 mm. in width at its base by 10 nmi. iu height. Two parts of the reflexa could be easily distinguislied : a thin polar portion with no regular structure, with scarcely any traces of glands, and witli signs of commencing degeneration ; and a thicker basal portion, the inner half of which was more compact (no blood sinuses and very few glands), while the outer half, especially near its junction with the decidua vera, showed several gland orifices and many blood sinuses. The decidual cells were more comjjressed in the inner than in the outer half. In the decidua serotina the large decidual cells were practically limited to the compact layer. Blood sinuses could be recognised opening into intervillous spaces both in connection with the serotina and the reflexa. C. Kupfter's specimen, of about the same age, showed similar conditions {Miinchen. mc'd. Wrhnschr., xxxv. 515, 1888) ; in this case also villi were found over the whole surface of the chorion although they were most strongly developed in an equatorial band. An epithelial douljle layer covered the chorion and the chorionic villi (Fraenkel's specimen), the outer layer being, as at an earlier date, plasmodial or syncytial, and the inner cellular. In the neighbourhood of the polar portion of the decidua reflexa tiie syncytimn was very thick and was covered with a blood coagulum ; in this spot the cellular layer was very thin. The stroma of the chorion reached its greatest thickness opposite to the decidua serotina. The villi were most numerous where the decidua serotina passed into the decidua reflexa. Kastschenko (Arch. f. Anat. u. Uniirck/nt/sf/esch., p. 451, 1885) has described a fine network of threads in the syncytial layer at this age of pregnancy, and he found the syncytium thickest over the ends of the villi, while buds and strands extended from their sides in the form of processes. The amniotic membrane in the fourth week has very similar ajjpearances to those described already (in the preceding section) as existing at the third week. The amniotic sac, on account of the rapid growth of the embryo, is at this time almost entirely filled by it, so that the amnion is closely applied to the embryo. This space between the amniotic sac and the wall of the chorionic sac, the extra-embryonic ca^lom, is still large. The umliilical vesicle or yolk-sac is now quite extra-embryonic in position, and is attached to the body by a more constricted pedicle, at first short and later of a considerable length. Towards tlie end of this week the Bauchstiel or allantois-stalk has grown partly round the proximal part of the yolk-stalk, so that we can now speak of the umbilical cord, although it is not yet verj' cord-like. The mnbilical vesicle. in this week, reaches its greatest development; it measures from 2-7 by 3-0 mm. (His' embryo a) to 5-0 by 7-0 mm. (Mall's embryo of 26 days). The umbilical vesicle can be recognised as differentiated from the yolk-stalk, and the cavity in the latter (vitelline duct) is soon obliterated. The Embryo ix the Fourth Week For the study of human embryos of the fourth week (22 to 28 days) several specimens are available, among winch may be named His' embryos a, D,,, W, R, B, A, Eck 1, and Stt, and those of C. RabI, Coste, Allen Thomson (fourth embryo), Hensen, Ecker, Fol, B. H. Buxton, Mall, J. Mtiller, V. Magnus, and Waldeyer. The embryo of this age measures from 5 to 7 "5 mm. in length ; but the organism is now so coiled upon itself that it is difficult to ascertain its real length. The dorsal flexure of the preceding week has entirely disaj^peared and is replaced by a well-marked and rounded con- vexity posteriorly, which is due to the ap- jDroximation on their ventral aspect of the caudal and cephalic ends. The embr^'o is shaped like a C, the upper end of the C being the fore-brain and the lower end the embryonic tail; or, rather, the organism is so rolled up that its dorsal outline describes more than a complete circle (Fig. 13). In addition to the head-bend (in the region of the mid-brain), there is also a well-marked cervical flexure or neck- bend (at the posterior limit of the hind-brain) ; and the well-develoi^ed tail is sharply l:)eut forwards at the sacral bend. So it comes about that the length of the eml>ryo from the head-end to the tail-end does not repi'esent the total extent of the organism, thus His' embryo «. measui-ed 4 nun. but when unrolled 13'7 mm. The body shows still the spiral twist which was noted at the end of the third week : the head is bent to the right and the tail to the left in His' embryo a. The Bauchstiel or allantoic stalk is now becoming more stalk-like ; on account of the mai-ked ventral concavity of the trunk and the develiipment of the tail, it lies near the yolk-stalk and partly surrounds it, as has been already pointed out. A very noticeable change in the external appearance of the embryo is now visible, namely, the indication of the limb-buds. Possibly tliey may be recognised in some specimens of the end of the third week ; at any rate, they are quite distinct at the beginning of the fourth. The}^ are at present no more than slight swellings or flat processes arising from the ridge (Wolflian ridge) which runs along the dorsal border of the cmbrj'onic somatopleure. In structure they consist of rounded mesoblastic cells with an external layer of epiblast. Each limb-bud has an upper, dorsal, or extensor surface, and a lower, ventral, or flexor one ; and there are two borders,