119 ENEMATA rectum. The general condition of the patient rapidly improves, as the fluid is quickly ab- sorbed by the rectum. The same form of enema given after a severe operation is of great help in allaying thirst. Nutrient EnemaM. — The following points must be borne in mind:—(i.) The absorbent powers of the mucous membrane of the rectum are slight and slow in action; (ii.) irritation may easily be set up. The food, therefore, must be easily absorbed, bland, and of small bulk. The ingredients and methods of pepton- ising and pancreatising will be described in a later article ("Invalid Feeding"). There are rectal suppositories of predigestcd foods in the market, and they are very useful at times. It is sufficient to say here that the quantity should not exceed from 2 to 4 ounces, that the irritation of the rectum with its obstinate diar- rhoea may be delayed by the cleansing of the rectum with a small injection of saline solution before each enema is given, and the administra- tion of 111^V. tinct. opii in every second or third enema. Nutrient enemata should not be given oftener than one every six hours. A skilful nurse can do a great deal in the successfiil maintenance of rectal feeding for a prolonged period. These forms of enemata are of little use in childhood from the difficulty of retention. Medicinal afientK, such as morphia and bella- donna, are administered more conveniently by the rectum in the form of suppositories. Chloral may be administered in cases of eclampsia, 30 grains at the onset of the attack repeated every two hours until the fits stop. It is not advisable to exceed 3^ drachms in the twenty-four hours. Enemata as a Diagnostic. — The diagnostic value of a purgative enema is considerable, and will be referred to in other ai'ticles, e.g. con- stipation, intestinal obstruction. It will sufliice here to emphasise the fact that the use of a large piu'gative enema, sometimes repeated two or three times, has not infrequently indicated the simple nature of a case, when the symptoms had been such as to suggest much greater mis- chief, e.g. typhoid fever, tuberculous meningitis, intestinal obstruction fi'om other causes, simple mania, etc. As pi-eviously stated, carefid deliberation is frequently requii-ed before deciding on the use of large enemata. Enentery.—A variety of the teratological state known as omphalocephaly, in wdiich a part of the embryo is abnormallj' lodged in the alimentary canal, either anteriorly {omphalo- cephaly proper) or posteriorly {ourentery) ; it has been noted in chicks artificially hatched, but not yet in mammals. Energ'y. See Physiology, Food and T>iGmT\(}^ (Food-Stuffs, Energy-Values); Physio- logy, Dietetics {Encrgy-Re<iulrements). Eng'a.dine. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). Engagement.—The first stage in the descent of the head of the foetus into the pelvis (through the pelvic brim) in labour. See Labour, Physiology. England. See Therapeutics, Health Resout.s {English). English Cholera. — Choleraic diar- rhea. See Cholera Nostras. English Disease.—Rickets (according to early German writers). English Malady.—Hypochondriasis. Engorgement.—Over-distension {e.g. of the vessels or lieart) with blood ; congestion. Enomania. — Delirium tremens. See Alcoholis:\i. EnophthalmuS. — Morbid retraction of the eyeball. See Eye, Clinical Examina- tion {Introductory). EnOSOmania.—The form of insanity in which the patient believes that he has com- mitted the unpardonable sin. Ensiform.—Sword-shaped or ensal, e.g. ensiform cartilage. Ensilage.—The process of keeping hay by placing it in trenches (silos) in the ground ; its own weight is usually sufiicient to compress; it has practically the same value as a food-stuft' as the material (gi'ass, maize, etc.) from wdiich it is made. Enterasmia.—Intestinal congestion. Enteralgia.—Intestinal imin. See Ap- pendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Diagnosis); Gout {Irregular, Alimentary System); Hysteria {Sensory Disorders, Ilypera^sthesia). Enterectomy.—Resection of a part of the intestine. See Ald(jmen, Injuries op {Treat- ment). Enterepiplocele. — A hernia whose contents include omentum as well as intestine. See Hernia. Enteric Fever. See Typhoid Fever; see also Alopecia {I'l-emature, after Enteric Fever); Ankle-Joint, Diseases of {Synovitis, after Enteric Fever); Cholera Nostras {Dia- gnosis) ; Colon, Diseases of [Simjde Colitis, Diagnoses); Diphtheria {Diagnosis); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium {Malignant Endocarditis, Diagnosis); Hydropathy {Acute Diseases, Enteric Fever); Meteorology {Enteric Fever in Autumn); Milk {Therapeutic, Patho-