111 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN olfactory lobe is carried forward by this same cerebral hemispherical expansion. The axes of the eyes become parallel; and there is fusion of some of the tubercles which go to form the external ear. There ai'e already indications of all the cranial nerves, but at this time the cavity which exists in the optic stalk begins to close. 3. The 2^el'vic cham/es.—At the opposite or pelvic end of the fcctus important changes are also taking place. The Wolffian body reaches its maximum of development at the seventh week, and at the eighth begins to resorb; the kidney, which measures barely 2 mms. in length at the sixth week, is 2'5 mms. at the end of the neofcutal period, shows commencing lobulation, and in it Malphigian corpuscles begin to form. It is stated that a dilatation of the allantois to constitute the urinary bladder takes place, but the details of tlie development of this part of the urino-genital apparatus have not been yet ascertained. The testis is histologically dis- tinguishable from the ovary at the sixth week by the smaller number of JJreier (primitive ova or ovic cells) in it. The fusion of the Miillerian ducts has begun at the eighth week. Sex, therefore, is already recognisable in the neofojtal period, albeit the distinguishing character is microscopical. 4. The thoraco-ahdominal chan</es.—It is a remarkable fact that after the sixth week of intra-uterine life the organs of the thorax and upper part of the abdomen may be said to have completed their development; during the re- maining thirty-four weeks they grow indeed, but show no changes in their construction till birth forces new functions upon them; some of them do not change even then. This is specially true of the heart and great vessels, for they change little, if at all, between the beginning of the neofootal and the end of the foetal period. In the circulating blood red cells (nucleated) are the most numerous, but the red plastids (non- nucleated) have begun to appear. The liver also is well developed, and grows enormously in size in the second month, and the gall-bladder is present. The spleen is quite recognisable. There is a slight change in the pancreas, but in its position only; it lies at first parallel to the long axis of the body, and later comes to be directed transversely. The asymmetry of the lungs is seen even at six weeks, and the lobes are marked off as branches. The typical form of the stomach is indicated at the fifth week, before, therefore, the beginning of the neofcetal epoch ; and the villi and glands of the intestine have begun to develop at the second month, althoTigh the intestinal coils continue to elongate during fa-tal life, and may not have taken up their permanent position and relations even at the time of birth. The development of the thymus gland from the entoderm of the third gill-cleft has begun. The two lateral anlages of the thyroid gland have united with the single median anlage at the seventh week ; the ductus thyreoglossus may remain open till the eighth week ; and at the same time the formation of hollow acini has connnenced. In one detail, however, development in this region is incom- plete : the sejjaration between the pleural and abdominal cavities has not taken ])lace in a two months' foetus. Not only are there changes, external and in- ternal, in the embryo-foetus during the neofa'tal period, but there are also alterations in the foetal ajjpendages of very considerable import- ance. The organism lies in the sac formed by the decidual membranes, the reflexa being still distinct from the vera; the chorion is villous all over, but the villi in the region where the placenta is soon to form are larger than the others, and are already vascularised to a greater degree by the allantoic or innbilical vessels; the decidual membranes and chorion weigh together from 11 to 15 grms. ; the liquor amnii is present in the amniotic cavity to the amount of 10 to 13 grms. ; the umbilical vesicle has atrophied, but is still to be seen attached to the abdomen of the neofoetus by a thin cord, and doubtless there is still some circulation going on in the vitelline or omphalo - mesenteric vessels. As has been already stated, the pro- jection of intestine into the umbilical cord is increased during the first week of the neofa^tal period. The great changes seen in the en- vironment of the foetus at this epoch are the I'eplacement of the vitelline by the allantoic or umbilical circulation, and the progressive growth in importance of the placental over the general chorionic circulation. The end of the neoftrtal period therefore coincides with the beginning of the placental connections. There is thus a sort of birth before birth, a transition not so sharp as that which occurs at the tenth month of intra-uterine life, but nevertheless definite enough and of great importance. Further, just as there are many traces of the fa-tus to be seen in the new- born infant, so in the neofoetus there are not a few indications of the embryo; there are in it still some signs of typical embryonic or develop- mental activity, as the preceding paragraphs abundantly have demonstrated. By the end of the third month, as will be seen, the new-born foetus is fairly established under the placental I'egime, its yolk-sac (vitelline) connections can be dispensed with and all circulatory activities can be concentrated in the allantoidal union with the decidua serotina. Tlie transition thus accomplished is not without its element of danger; and just as the neonatal period is com- monly one of danger to the new-l)orn infant, so the neofcetal is full of risk to the "new-born foetus." It is, at any rate, a fact well known that intra-uterine life is often broiight to an untimely end by abortion at the third month.