EPIDEMIOLOGY 152 is carried off by a plague, fewer are left to die of other diseases. Plague may also prevail in an otherwise healthy year, but there is no proof that the existence of a plague suppresses other maladies. One or two instances of apparent antagonism between epidemic diseases must be admitted, although they cannot be explained. When epidemic malaria overran New England from 1864 to 1884, it was noticed that as the malarial wave advanced in Connecticut typhoid fever receded. From causing four or five hundred deaths in a year, it so decreased in prevalence that in one of the malarious years the deaths from typhoid fever fell to one hun- dred and fifty-nine. As malaria disappeared typhoid fever came once more to the front. It has also been observed in some instances that epidemies of malarial fever have suddenly ceased when cholera appeared. But the reverse has also been observed. It is recorded that inter- mittent fever disappeared entirely from Marien- werder (where it was previously epidemic) on the cessation of cholera in 1831, and only reappeared with the return of cholera in 1849. It did not, however, disappear along with the cholera as before, but remained the predomin- ating sickness in that locality until 1856, when it again diminished in frequency (Hirsch). We have no satisfactory explanation to offer of these strange associations and antagonisms. Evolution and Involution of an Epidemy.— On examining the course of the great epidemy of small-pox in England and Wales in 1837-39, Farr found that the deaths in the first two quarters of its progress increased at a uniform rate of 30 per cent. From the third to the fourth quarter, the increase was only 6 per cent, after which the numbers for a short time re- mained stationary, like a projectile at the summit of its curve. The deaths then de- creased through six quarterly periods at suc- cessive ratios of 5, 10, 15, 20, 26, and 31 per cent. Vague notions have been, and are, entertained that some such law will be found to apply to all contagious diseases. It has been conceived that an epidemy, like a projectile, describes a definite trajectory, so that, given the ratios of increase at two points in its course, its further progress could be calculated. The evolution of an epidemy follows no fixed law. Indeed, the ratios of increase and decrease of the same disease differ in different outbreaks in the same locality. That this must necessarily be the case will be evident if we reflect that the course of an epidemy—say of small-pox or measles—depends on a number of factors that are never present and operative in the same degree in any two outbreaks. These factors are : (a) the spreading-power of the virus, which is a variable quantity ; {b) the number of centres from which the epidemy starts; (c) the facilities for the spread of the contagion, dependent on the number of the susceptible, their aggregation, and the degree of intercourse among them; [d) the seasonal influences, which accelerate or re- tard its spread. The last-named factor has an important effect on the ratio of increase. Scarlet fever, for example, is normally at its minimum in the second quarter. During an epidemy, the deaths in the second quarter, it is true, exceed those in the first, but the rate of increase during that quarter is invariably slowed by inhibiting seasonal influences. These considerations would lead us to anti- cipate considerable diversities in the evolution of the same disease. But every epidemy of a contagious disease in a large community has, nevertheless, its period of rise, its fastigium, and its period of decline. Normally the ratio of increase is an accelerating one up to a certain point, when it becomes retarded, and the rate of increase in the number of attacks then becomes less and less imtil the fastigium is reached. The decline now commences. At the beginning it is slow, then it proceeds more or less rapidly for a time, and slows down again, as the disease approaches its sporadic level. How are we to account for these stages ? We can readily understand that, once an epidemy has been set agoing, it will advance more and more rapidly as the contagium becomes more and more multiplied and diffused. As the numbers of the susceptible decrease and their density diminishes, an arrest of the rate of spread will take place, and at a certain point the tide must turn, and the number of attacks become fewer and fewer until the outbreak sub- sides. Does this mechanical theory of numbers and density account for the trajectory described by an epidemy ? The retardation in the rate of spread is not to be accounted for solely by the reduction in the actual number of the susceptible, for the inimber attacked subsequent to the slow- ing of the ratio of increase is greater than that up to the point when the retai'dation begins. But the diminished density of the susceptible has to be taken into account; for although the thinning process is in operation from the be- ginning of an epidemy, and is to some extent counteracted by the increasing diffusion of the contagium, yet when it has reached a certain point the diminished density must have an effect in slowing the rate at which attacks proceed. Other factors modify the course of an epidemy, but the governing factors are the numbers and density of the susceptible, and, as has already been said, many who have not passed through the disease may acquire a temporary insuscep- tibility. But the question here arises. Does the infective agent undergo changes of virulence during the progress of an epidemy ? The case-mortality varies according to the different phases of an epidemy, as will be seen from the following figures, which give the number of cases of measles, the deaths, and the