485 GOUT too frequently have measures which may have iippeared on theoretical grounds to be applicable to the treatment of the disease succumbed before the searching light of practical experience. The fallacies in experimental laboratoi'y work are so numerous that great care must be exercised in drawing any conclusions from this line of inquiry, and should the conclusions arrived at not be in harmony with the teachings of clinical experience they may well be abandoned. A few words about the term uric acid diathesis. Under this term are generally included two conditions—gout and lithtemia—which have only one important point in common. In both the excretion of free uric acid in the urine plays an important part. The frequent association of these two conditions, either in the same indi- vidual or in different members of the same family, has not unnaturally led to the belief that there is an exceedingly close relationship between them, even to the extent of i-egarding uric acid calculi as gouty deposits in the urinary tract. While we must admit the probable existence of a very close relationship between the two conditions, they yet present sufficient points of difference in their appearances and results as to justify us considering them separ- ately. The etiology and treatment of uric acid calculi will be considered later (see " Uric Acid ") ; for the present we are concerned with gout proper. The subject is admittedly a com- plex and difficult one, and while its adequate presentation involves freijuent entry into un- known and purely speculative regions, I shall seek to indicate them clearly, so that we may avoid arriving at any conclusions not based on definitely ascertained and accepted facts. MoRiuD Anatomy.—The characteristic ana- tomical changes in gout are dependent on the deposit of urate of soda in various parts of the body, notably in and around joint structures, and on secondary changes arising from this deposit. Much discussion has from time to time taken place as to whether degenerative changes occurred in the tissues prior to the deposit of the urate compoimd. While some observers maintain that such degeneration is a primary factor (Kbstcin and liis school), others hold that urate of soda can be deposited in unchanged living tissues (Riehl, Lukhatschiff, and His). The subject is a complicated one, and requires further elucidation. While the uratic deposits are seen most characteristically in joint structures they are by no means con- fined to them. Nearly all the structures of the body which contain a large amount of connective tissue have been found affected. In the central nervous system, crystals of urate of soda have been found in the dura and pia mater, in the neurilenniia of nerve - sheaths, in patches of cerebral softening, and in the cerebro - spinal fluid. A similar condition has been noted in the cardio-vascular system, the aortic and mitral valves and aorta occasionally showing a deposit. Among other sites may be mentioned the eye- lids, sclerotic, auricle, tendons and tendon sheaths, vocal cords, bronchi, bursse, bone marrow, palmar, and other fascia, and sub- cutaneous tissue generally. Indeed it is probable that a careful examination of the various organs and tissues in pronounced cases of gout would reveal the presence of a deposit in many other places not previously described. These points sufficiently indicate that uratic precipitation is very variable in its incidence, a fact of consider- able import in connection with the phenomena of irregular gout. Before considering the changes in articular structures a few words may be said about the deposition of urate of soda. The presence of urate of soda may be mani- fest as a subcutaneous infiltration of the connective tissue and tendon sheaths {e.g. in Dupuytren's contraction), or it may be present in the form of localised subcutaneous swellings —tophi. In yet other cases it may be a com- ponent part of an enlarged, thickened, and inflamed bursa, in which case the swelling may reach a considerable size. Tophi vary in size from a very minute deposit, the size of a pin's head, up to or exceeding that of a small orange. Among the more common situations are the ears, fingers, foot, ankle, and eyelids, but they may be seen in other situations. The general appearances vary according to the site and the presence or absence of ulceration. Their consistency and chemical composition are also variaVjle. The term chalky deposits usually applied, while giving a fair general impression of their appearance, is not strictly accurate, as there is no carbonate of lime in their com- position. Comparatively few detailed observations have been made on their chemical composition. The results obtained by Langin, Wurzer, and Lehman are given in the following table :— Sodium urate Calcium urate Sodium chloride . Potassium chloride Calcium j^hosphate Animal matter Water . Undetermined residues . j Lehman's specimen was supposed to include a fragment of bony substance. Calcium oxalate has also been found in large amount. The salts of uric acid, which are the important ingredients, can be readily recognised by the following re- actions :—Take a fragment of the tophus and dissolve by the addition of a few drops of nitric acid. Evaporate slowly almost to dryness in a porcelain capsule, when, if uric acid be present, a yellowish deposit appears, and on addition of one or two drops of ammonia a rich purple Lani;iii. Wurzer. I..eliniaii. 25-92 29-70 52-12 15-75 29-.30 1-25 16-70 18-00 9-SO 2-20 4-32 16-70 19-00 28-49 19-60 10-30 3-88