436 GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF has no valve. The lymphatics pass to the lumbar glands, and the nerves come from the inferior hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic and from the sacral nerves. In the foetus and young infant the ovaries lie above the plane of the brim of the pelvis, have an almost cylindrical elongated form, and show on section a much greater number of follicles than is to be observed in later life. The glands are chiefly derived from the germinal epithelium of the genital ridge ; but a small part is developed from the mesonephros. Fallopian Tubes.—The oviducts or Fallopian tubes are two sinuous tubes which occvipy the upper part of the middle fold of the broad liga- ment, called the mesosalpinx or the mesentery of the tube. At the inner end they arise from the upper angle of the uterus, while the outer ex- tremity opens into the general peri- toneal cavity, but is connected with the ovary by the ovarian fimbria, and with the pelvic brim by means of the free fold of the broad ligament or infundibulo-pelvic ligament. Each tube is shaped like a shepherd's crook; the first part nearest to the uterus runs out straight, the second part curves straight outwards and forwards, and the third backwards and inwards. The first part, or isth- mus, is the narrowest, and through it the uterine and tubal cavities are continuous; the second, or ampulla, is much wider; while the third, or infundibidum or fimbriated extremity, is expanded like the moiith of a trumpet and consists of the abdominal opening (ostium abdominale) and of the fimbrise or fringes surrounding it. The right tube is usually a little longer than the left, the measure- ments being 11 cm. for the former and 10 cm. for the latter. The diameter near the inner end is about 4 mm., farther out it measures from 7 to 9 mm., and the ostium abdominale has a diameter of from 2 to 5 mm. A neck of con- striction just internal to the infundibulum has been described ; this may indicate an external sphincter of the tube. The fimbrife are primary and secondarj', or major and minor; the former are three or five in number; and in the intervals between them are the secondary, which are more numerous. The fimbriae give to the end of the tube the appearance which has been termed " morsus diaboli " (Fig. 6). The structure of the tubes is like that of other hollow viscera. To the naked eye three coats or layers are recognisable : an external or serous formed of the peritoneum of the mesosal- pinx ; a middle or muscular made up of an outer longitudinal layer of fibres and an inner circular; and an internal or mucous thrown into folds, which are continuous with the fimbrife at the ostium abdominale. In the isthmus the tubal folds or rugae are simple, and are arranged longitudinally, and the section of the tube is stellate; in the ampulla their arrangement is much more complicated, there are from three to five primary folds, and from eight to ten second- ary ones, and all these branch, so that on section the tube has a dendritic appearance ; and at the infundibular end the folds become continu- ous with the fimbrife, j^rimary folds with primary fimbrife, and secondary with secondary. Under the microscope the outer coat has the ordinary appearance of a serous membrane ; b\it it is noteworthy that at the ostium abdominale the flat cells of the peritoneum stop abruptly and Fio. 6.—Fallopian tube, parovarium, and ovary (seen from the front). A, Fallo- pian tube ; B, relic of mesonephros; C, curved tubules of parovarium ; D, vertical tubules ; B, cyst, of Gartner's duct; F, pen-shaped ovarian fimbria ; H, pedunculated cyst of parovarium ; M, left ovary ; N and O, tubular relies- of mesonephros. (After Ballantyne and Williams.) give place to the ciliated columnar cells of the mucous membrane at the muco-peritoneal line, constituting a unique occurrence in the histology of the body. With regard to the muscular coat it is to be observed that there is a marked in- crease in the number of the circular fibres at the point where the tube passes through the uterine wall and also at the neck of constriction (i\bove referred to) just internal to the infundi- bulum. The microscope has shown that the outer longitudinal and inner circular arrange- ment of the musculature is not constant, for in some specimens longitudinal fibres are found lying internal to the circular and bulging into the bases of the folds of the mucosa. A sub- mucous layer is not invariably present, but is occasionally found, especially in young women, as a thin layer most evident in the isthmus. It consists of round and spindle-shaped cells of embryonic character. The folds of the mucosa have a basis of similar cells with connective tissue fibres, a central artery, and are covered by columnar ciliated epithelium. The appearances of the tube in transverse section fire distinctly suggestive of the presence of glands, but some