GENERATION, FEMALE ORGANS OF 435 smooth, but later it becomes irregulai-. Two zones can be distinguished, a vascidar zone or medulla or paroophoron, and a parenchymatous zone or coi-tex or oophoron. The former is softer in consistence, pink in colour, and contains large vessels, which enter from the broad ligament; the latter is firmer, white, and less vascular, and is dotted with small pits (follicles) (Fig. 5). With the microscope it can be made out that the zona vasculosa is made up of loose connective tissue with some unstriped muscular fibres, large tortuous blood-vessels, nei'ves, and lymphatics, and some isolated tubular relics of the raeso- nephros. The jaarenchymatous zone shows most externally a layer of germinal columnar epithelial cells, whicii stops at the hiluni at the white line, beconiino: contimious with the endothelium of Fio. 5.—Section of ovary coverin". showing large and small ovi-sacs, epithelial and vessels. (After Baldy.) the peritoneum of the broad ligament. Beneath this is in some ovaries (especially from old women) a connective tissue layer, the tunica albuginca. The greater part of the jjai-enchy- matous zone, however, is composed of the folli- culiferous stroma. In it are found the Graafian follicles, from .36,000 to 40,000 in number in each ovary in the new-born infant, along with connective tissue, vessels, and nerves. The follicles are of three kinds, primary, growing, and ripe or mature: the primary and growing follicles are smaller than the ripe ones and lie nearer the surface, although occasionally a ripe one is found at the periphery. In the primary follicles are the primitive ova with a few some- what flattened epithelial cells to form a covering; in the growing follicles the epithelial cells have become more cubical in shape, and form several layers round the ovum, which shows the com- mencement of a zona pellucida. The ripe follicle is a complicated structure: from without in- wards can be recognised (a) a fibrous or external membrane or tunic, consisting of spindle-shaped, round, and stellate cells; (6) a membi'ana pro- pria or internal tunic, consisting of a delicate layer of connective tissue; (c) a membrana granulosa or stratum granulosiuii, consisting of two or more laj'ers of nucleated columnar cells, lining the follicle and massed together at one point into a clump of cells, forming the discus proligerus or cumulus oophorus, and containing the ovum itself; (d) the liquor folliculi, a clear, yellow fluid, containing much paralbumin; and (e) the ovum, composed from without inwards of (1) the ovular epithelium, consisting of the granular epithelial cells of the membrana granu- losa, which lie nearest to the ovum, and to wiiich the name corona radiata is sometimes given ; (2) the zona pellucida or vitelline membrane, which also shows a striation ; (3) the perivitel- line space; (4) the protoplasmic portion of the vitellus, consisting of an outer clear part jukI an inner more granular portion ; (5) the deutoplasmic part of the vitellus; and (6) the germinal vesicle or nucleus, situated excentrically, and in it the germinal spot or nucleolus which has shown, according to some (ibservers, amoeboid movements. A ripe Graa- fian follicle, such as has Ijeen described, is ready to play its j^art in reproduction: in ovulation the follicle enlarges, passes from the centre towards the periphery of the ovary, during which time the ovum is throwing off two small rounded bodies, the polar glob\iles, and the nucleus is undergoing karyokinetic changes ; then the follicle ruptures, the ovum and part of its surrounding cells of the membrana granulosa escaping to be caught in the outer end of the Fallopian tube and carried along the tube into the uterus. The changes which occur in the follicle after rupture lead to the formation of the structure known as the corpus luteum. This structure is composed of blood-clot and of an ingrowth of the vascular wall of the follicle into the cavity from which the ovum has escaped ; gradually the wall be- comes thrown into folds and less room is avail- able for the clot, which soon occupies only the centre of the corpus; the corrugated wall is first of a bright and later of a pale yellow colour; and finally the position of the corpus luteum is represented by a white cicatrix (corpus albicans). The corpus luteum which follows an ovulation unaccompanied by pregnancy runs through all the above described stages much more quickly than one which ensues upon impregnation ; otherwise there is no essential difterence lietwecn the corpus luteum of pregnancy or corjjus verum and the corpus luteum of menstruation (so-called). The colour is due to the presence of lutein. The arterial supply of the ovaries is from the ovarians which come from the aorta ; the veins pass to the pampiniform plexus in the broad ligaments and thence to the ovarian veins, of which one, the right, opens into the vena cava infei'ior and has a valve, while the other, the left, joins the renal vein at right angles, and