292 FINGERS but have occasionally been found associated with disease in other organs, for instance with aneurysm of the aorta. " Clubbing" of the fingers must be differentiated from the abnormal state of the digits occurring in acromegaly and in pulmonary osteo-arthropathy. In acromegaly the fingers are uniformly enlarged. They are broad too, but there is neither clubbing nor tapering of the finger-tips. The interphalangeal creases are very evident, and the nails which are not disproportionately enlarged are flat and often show longitudinal furrowing. The indi- vidual will, in addition, present other features so characteristic of the disease. In indmonary osteo-arthropathy the enlargement, though in- volving the bones of the fingers, hands, feet, and lower parts of the legs and forearm, is not so uniform as in acromegaly, and the skull is not aff"ected. The terminal phalanges are most markedly involved, being large and broad, the fingers thus somewhat resembling ordinary clubbed fingers. The nails are of large size, very convex, and often present marked longi- tudinal striation. The diagnosis rests mainly on the presence of some causal pulmonary disease, and on the fact that the enlargement is not confined to the finger-tips alone. 3. Deformities and Distortions. — Con- genital Deformities, Dupuytren's contraction, spring finger and mallet finger, vide article " Deformities." Contraction and stiffness of the fingers may result from contraction or section of the flexor or extensor tendons. It may occur, too, after burns or septic inflammation, and in the latter case the worst forms of contraction are due to inflammatory adhesion of the tendons to their synovial sheaths. These conditions are veiy difficult to treat satisfactorily, but the contrac- tion may be improved if passive movements of the affected digits be continued for sufficient length of time. If there be contraction of the tendons themselves, division may effect consider- able improvement; and if the tendons have been divided, imion of the cut ends is indicated. Due to Affections of the Nervous System.—The involuntary, irregular jerky movements of chorea, and various tremors, e.g. paralysis agitans, are usually well seen in the fingers. The movements of Jacksonian and of post-hemiplegic epnlepsy may be confined to the fingers or thumb. Athe- toid movements, too, are often observed in the fingers, following especially cerebral hemiplegia or diplegia in children. In epilepsy the aura may be referred to the fingers, and in the tonic spasms of epilepsy and of tetanus the fingers are tightly clenched in the palm of the hand. Tonic bilateral contractions of the fingers are also seen in tetany. In this condition the fingers are flexed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints and extended at the other joints. The thumb lies in the palm, is rarely bent, but is usually straight with its terminal phalanx pressed against the palmar surface of the second, third, or fourth finger. In rare instances the fingers are clenched over the thumb. The fingers have been likened to those of the obstetrician when he is about to introduce the hand into the vagina. The spasms, though often first manifested in the fingers and toes, are, of course, not always confined to these parts; the arms, legs, etc., may be affected too. These tetanoid spasms are remittent. At first they may persist for only a few hours, while the remissions may last for days or even weeks. The periods of remission are gradually shortened, and each succeeding attack persists longer, until the duration of each paroxysm may be measured by days or weeks. Spasms or cramps may also be manifestations of an occupation neurosis, e.g. writer's cramp, or of hysteria, both of which conditions may also cause paresis. They are usually unilateral. Neuritis or trauma producing jmralysis of the median nerve.—The effect of this on the fingers is as follows :—The second phalanges cannot be flexed, nor can the distal phalanges of the first and second fingers. The thumb cannot be opposed to the fingers, and there is wasting of the thumb muscles. Sensation is affected in the index, middle, and radial half of the ring finger and the palmar surface of the thumb. In pjaralysis of the ulnar nerve there is in- ability to flex the first and to extend the second and third phalanges. The fingers cannot be abducted or adducted, nor can the thumb be adducted. Anteriorly there is loss of sensation over the little and half the ring finger, posteriorly over the little, ring, and half the middle finger. In advanced cases the position of the fingers somewhat resembles that seen in progressive muscular atrophy. Paralysis of the Muscido-spiral Nerve.—The first phalanges of the fingers and thumb are flexed and cannot be extended. Sensation may be diminished in the region supplied by the nerve. Paralysis of the extensors should also be noted as occurring in plumbism. In advanced cases of progressive muscular atrophy, subsequent to the wasting of the thenar and hypothenar eminences, the first phalanges are hyperextended and the more distal phalanges are flexed, the condition being the result of wasting of the interossei and lumbricales, and contraction of the extensors and flexors of the fingers. 4. Injuries. — Detailed remarks regarding injuries of the fingers may be omitted, but attention must be drawn to the important fact that treatment of bruised or wounded fingers should aim at the preservation of as much tissue as possible. Gangrene may ensue as a result of bruises and other injuries, as well as after inflammation, arterial obstruction, etc. Foreign bodies lodging in the digits may be very troublesome, both from the jjain they produce