EPIDEMIOLOGY 142 in the sixth and seventh centuries, and, again, from the fourteenth to the middle of the seven- teenth century. Other instances are afforded by the remarkable prevalence of typhus in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, its gradual decline in recent years, and the varying prevalence of malaria, dysentery, and the con- tagious class of diseases in different historical periods. (b) The English sweating sickness is the best- known example of the advent of a disease of which no trace is previously to be met with in history. Its sudden appearance in 1486, its repeated periods of apparently complete ex- tinction, followed by new outbreaks, and its final disappearance in 1551, form an altogether unique episode in the annals of epidemiology. Whether dengue is to be reckoned among new diseases is not so certain, but its history does not reach back beyond the last quarter of the eighteenth century. Cerebro-spinal meningitis, if not new, escaped recognition up to the year 1837. The epidemic diseases mentioned by Hippo- crates are malarial fevers of the various types now known, continued fevers of long duration, presenting some of the features of Malta fever, possibly diphtheria, dysentery, summer cholera, mumps, erysipelas, puerperal fever. Plague, too, was known in his day, although it is not described in any of his authentic works. The list of epidemic diseases has increased consider- ably since the time of Hippocrates by the evolu- tion of new diseases or by the extension to Europe of maladies previously restricted to other regions. Respecting the existence of small - po^c and measles in ancient times Dr. Adams says: "After having read, we may say, every word of every ancient wi-iter on medicine tljat has come down to us, we can confidently affirm that the Greeks and Romans are alto- gether silent on the subject (of small-pox and measles), and we are indebted to the Arabians for the earliest accounts we have of these dis- eases." In this conclusion we agree, and we are even inclined to doubt the vast antiquity claimed for small-pox in India and China. The historic evidence of this antiquity is doubtful; the improbabilities of its being restricted for ages to one country, great. Had small-pox prevailed in the East from remote antiquity, as some hold, it is difficult to understand why it should not have rapidly spread to Europe if the disease had then possessed the contagious char- acter it now exhibits. The constant inter- course between the East and West in ancient times afforded ample opportunities for its spread. But whatever may be the antiquity of small- pox and measles, their extension to Europe, which is one of the most notable secular move- ments of epidemic diseases, does not date before the sixth century. In recent times other dis- eases have extended their limits. Yellow fever has in our day become acclimatised in Brazil, and in the past and present centuries it has fre quently overrun great parts of North America, and has made repeated incursions into Southern Europe. One of the most remarkable instances of the extension of a disease previously confined to a comparatively limited area is that afforded by the repeated pandemics of cholera during the present century. (c) History, too, affords examples of the ex- tinction or modification of old diseases. No form of sickness now known corresponds to the plague of Athens as described by Thucydides, to that of Antoninus (166-68 a.d.) described by Galen, or to that of Cyprian in the third century. The modifications in prevalence and virulence which epidemic diseases have undergone in his- torical times are apparent. Malarial fever and dysentery dominated the pathology of England in the days of Sydenham; they are at present not only among the rarest of diseases, but they have lost much of their old virulence. When do we hear now of the pernicious attacks de- scribed by Morton which "sub larva algoris funesti, vomitionis indesinentis, cholerse morbi, colicse ventriculi, apoplexite, syncopes, spasmi universalis, pleuritidis, vel alterius morbi secure delitescens, medicum a scopo suo non raro ab- ducit" ? Typhus fever, so prevalent in past centuries, seems to be verging towards extinc- tion. On the other hand, the quasi-epidemic diseases of the respiratory organs—pneumonia and bronchitis—have gained in importance, and since the first appearance of Asiatic cholera the mortality from diarrhoeal diseases has enor- mously increased, although of late years it seems again to be somewhat on the wane. The mor- tality from this class of diseases per million living in London since the beginning of registra- tion has been as follows :— 1838-40 1841-50 1851-60 1861-70 1871-80 1881-90 274 782 1030 1040 949 748 This increase has not been confined to London or England. According to Lombard the deaths in Berlin from diarrhosa and cholorine formed 18-6 per 1000 of the deaths from all causes from 1835 to 1838; by 1868-69 they had risen to 109; in 1872 to 134; and in 1873 to 173 per 1000. Is this great increase caused by the acclimatisation in Europe of an attenuated de- scendant of the vibrio of Asiatic cholera 1 (d) The temporary assumption of epidemic characters by sporadic infective diseases is best exemplified in the epidemic spread of syphilis in the end of the fifteenth century. Something analogous, but not so much to the point, is observed in the spread of leprosy in Europe in the Middle Ages, and in New Caledonia and the Sandwich Islands of late years. Space forbids us entering into a discussion of the causes of these secular movements. They