139 EPIDEMIOLOGY disease in the tropics. " L'infection palustre," he says, " est rare, tres rare dans la classe aisee. Les hnit dixiemes des cas d'impahidisme que j'ai observes, je les ai vus dans la classe pen aisee on miserable, et les quelques exemplcs que j'ai notes parmi les gensriches s'espliqueutpresqiietoiijours par des imprudences hygieniques." We shall have occasion in the sequel to notice the effect of an increased vulnerability of the air-passages pro- duced by atmospheric conditions in determining the seasonal incidence of small-pox and measles. What we call immunity is a lessened suscejiti- bility, original or acquired. This plays an im- portant part in limiting the spread of epidemic diseases. Wliat would have been the fate of our race if one attack of an epidemic disease afJbrded no immunity from another? When a cholera wave passes over India the population acquires a partial immunity, lasting, as a rule, for two or three years. Hence epidemic waves follow with considerable regularity every fourth year. It has been shown that the ingestion of the cholera bacillus in food or water, while it may fail to give rise to the infection, nevertheless confers a certain degree of imnnmity. Abel and Claussen found the vibrio in the stools of thirteen out of seventeen persons who had been brought into close contact with cholera patients. They had imbibed the virus without succumbing to the disease, and had doubtless in this way acquired a partial and tenijxn'ary imnmnity. We may thus sujipose that a very large number of a con)munity among which cholera has been raging, and who have escaped an attack, become temporarily iinnuine. Otherwise it would be difficult to understand why the disease should not spread every year in India, seeing that in the worst outbreaks those who have acquired an immunity by passing through an attack form only a small proportion of the population. A similar process of temporary iinnnuiisation by imbibing non-infective doses of the virus takes place in other infections. Is it not possible, then, that something similar occurs even in the case of contagious diseases ? 'J'he increase of virulence observed in the earlier stages of an outbreak of measles or small-pox is generally explained on the assumption that at the beginning of an epidemy only the more sus- ceptible are attacked, in passing through whom the virus gains in intensity. This theory, whether true or not, implies that others who imbibe the virus do not contract the disease on account of their greater resistance. We may suppose that in the case of those who receive the virus without developing the disease, the pathogenic organism is destroyed in situ by the action of the cells ; but it does not follow that the bacterial products are without effect on the ecouomy. This view of the possible immunising influence of non-infective doses of the virus of contagious diseases is not to be dismissed as purely fanciful, for (Jopenian has shown that protection against the effects of subsequent vaccination or inoculation is afforded by the introduction of the virus, although thci-e may be no local manifestations. Should it lie proved that the action of the virus—say of small-pox or measles — in doses insufficient to give rise to disease confers a temjiorary imnnmity on those stibjected to it, some difficulties in connection with the decliue of e]iidemics and the intervals between successive outf>i-eaks woidd be removed or lessened. Methods of Study. — Classification. — Epi- demiology is a branch of natural history—that branch of it wliich treats of the micro-organisms to which the microbes of epidemic diseases belong. A comijlete natural history of these organisms would include, among other things, their epidemiology. The life of an imjjortaiit group of these parasites is limited to man, and their life-history is comprised in their e|iidemic activity. The most interesting phase in the life of the others is not that which is jiassed by them as harmless saj^rophytes, but that in which as parasites they take tlieir share in the tragedy of human life, bring misery into the domestic circle, and, as in the case of plague, determine the fate of empires and modify the progress of civilisation. The natural history of the parasites of epi- demic diseases embraces their bacteriology and their epidemic manifestations. Bacteriologically, we have to study them in their relation to other organisms to which the}' are allied or which affect their growth ; their morphology ; the media in which those of them that can be grown outside the body can be best cultivated; the influence of physical agencies — temperature, humidity, and so forth—on their growth and virulence. J3ut this is only a fragment of their natural iiistory. We have to observe their behaviour a.s human parasites in order to discover how they spread, the influence of meteorological agents on their difTiision, the vehicles by which they are inti'oduced into the body, the personal and social conditions which influence infection, the circumstances that determine the decline and extinction of epidemics, and much more that cannot be learned by ba' teriologicid research. But our knowledge of the natural history of these organisms is not complete until we know something of their ei^idemic history—their vary- ing prevalence and fatality at different epochs, and the symptoms they have exhibited in past times. We must beware of concluding too fiositively from the behaviour of an organism under experi- mental conditions how it will comport itself in its epidemic career. Cholera cultivations die out rapidly when placed in the soil, but an out- break of cholera occurred in 1890 at Puebla de llugat in Spain, which could only be accounted for on the supposition that the vibrio had I'e- tained its vitality in the soil for a period of five years. Under the direction of Pettenkotter 5 litres of a bouillon containing an estimated