19 ECTOPIC GESTATION those of early rupture, but very much more severe and alarming. The patient, either with- out any obvious cause, or after some exertion, is suddenly seized with excruciating pain in one or other side, becomes faint, and rajjidly collapses. The surface of the body becomes pallid, the limbs cold, the pulse becomes feeble and rapid, and later imperceptible. Generally the patient remains conscious, but frequently suffers from nausea and vomiting. She may die in the course of a very few hours, and during this time the abdomen becomes more and more distended with blood. In some cases where the haemorrhage is not so impetuous the patient may survive, the result being the formation of a large haimatocele, but she is always liable to further htemorrhage, and repetition of all the symptoms of the first attack, and death. ((3) Extra-peritoneal. — When the ruj^ture takes place between the layers of the broad ligament the symptoms are similar, but not so urgent. Pain and faintness come on suddenly just as before, but actual collapse is not so marked, and the patient much more rapidly recovers from the shock. If the foetus has died she may have no further trouble, if the hiema- toma is speedily absorbed, but she is exposed to the risks of suppuration, lithopoedion, etc. Un- fortunately, in many cases tlie foetus goes on developing, the broad ligament becomes more and more distended, until ultimately it gives way—secondary rupture—causing all the symp- toms of severe intra-peritoneal haemorrhage. (c) Diagnosis at Term.—In those few cases in which the foetus goes on developing to full term labour pains set in, and may continue for hours or for days. Generally there is htemorrhage from the uterus, and a further discharge of decidual membrane. The diagnosis is arrived at liy careful examination of the uterus or of the abdomen, in which the foetus is found lying free. The foetal heart sounds are usually dis- tinct, and the mother may be conscious that the foetus has been lying unduly to one side of the abdomen. (fZ) Biar/nosis after Term.—In tubo-abdominal pregnancy diagnosis after term when the child is dead is not as a rule difficult. The shape of the abdominal swelling is characteristic, and the detection of the foetal parts while the uterus is fomid empty enables one to arrive at a definite diagnosis. On the other hand, when the preg- nancy is tubo-ligamcntary, and especially if it is posterior subperitoneo-abdominal, the diagnosis may be exceedingly obscure, and is more so if some time has elapsed since tlie death of the child. There are, of course, no fa^tal movements nor foetal heart sounds. The patient's breasts may show no signs of ])regnancy, and menstrua- tion may have returned. Indeed, the only sign is the fixed abdominal tumour, the relations and characters of which it may be impossible to determine. It is only by a most careful inquiry into the history of the case, eliciting the gradual enlargement of the abdomen during nine months, the history of rupture of the sac and of spurious labour at term, that a diagnosis can bo arrived at. Differential Diagnosis.—There are several conditions whicli simulate both in symptoms and in signs an ectopic gestation. Indeed, in some instances an absolute diagnosis at the moment is impossible, and it is only by repeated examination and continued observation that a definite conclusion is arrived at. 1. Pregnancy occurring in the rudimentary' horn of a bicoi'nuate uterus closely resemljles extra-uterine pregnancy ; and in this case the differential diagnosis is impossible. Kussmaul collected thirteen such cases, the majority of which had been reported as tubal pregnancies. If an exploratory incision is made, the anatomi- cal relations will at once clear up the difficulty, for, as pointed out by Mauriceau, in cornual the round ligament is situated external to the gesta- tion sac, whereas in tubal pregnancy it is sitii- ated on the uterine side of the sac. Pregnancy occurring in one horn of a completely bicornuate uterus may go to term and give rise to no ab- normal symptoms whatever. 2. Retroflexion of the Gravid Uterus. — On superficial examination this may be mistaken for an ectopic gestation, especially if it has become fixed by adhesions. There may be sharp pains and sjanptoms of pelvic pressure very similar to those of the graver condition. However, a bimanual examination, and especi- ally a bimanual rectal, will as a rule readily differentiate the two conditions. 3. Anteflexion of the Gravid Uterus.—With- out doubt this condition may in some cases, especially in primiparfe, give rise to suspicion of ectopic gestation. The writer has seen many cases among primiparte, who, certainly pregnant, suft'ered from severe pelvic pains during the first two or three months of pregnancy, and even from occasional luemorrhages, and in whom it was difficult at first to exclude ectopic gestation. In these cases the cervix becomes so elongated as to simulate the uterus itself lying behind the gestation sac. Examination under chloroform, however, generally reveals the true nature of the case, and if even then there is doubt the patient may be kept under observation, and as pregnancy advances the diagnosis becomes easy. 4. Fibroid Tumour of the Uterus with Preg- nancy.—A pregnant uterus which is the seat of a fibroid tinuour may be mistaken for an ectopic gestation. In such cases examination under chloroform is generally necessary, when, on the hardness of the swelling, its intimate relation to the uterus, its change of position with the growth of the uterus, and on the fact that the tumour does not grow so rapidly as does a gestation sac, an accurate diagnosis must depend.