337 FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE of that organ, the hard palate, including the pad covering the toothless premaxillcC. As we have mentioned, the vesicles may become confluent, and individual vesicles may attain the size of a half-crown or more. The fluid contained in the vesicles is at first clear like to water, but later becomes opaque. If the vesicle be ruptured the corium is exjjosed and found to be intensely hypersemic. The lesion only involves the super- ficial parts of the corium, not intruding any great depth into that structure. The epithelium around the wound forms a rounded edge, and soon extends over the denuded corium, restoring the lost covering. Pus is not conunonly found upon the exposed tissues, which are constantly flushed by the enormous amount of saliva pro- duced. The epitlielium over large areas may be lost; extensive patches from the sides and tip of the tongue, and from the anterior third of the mucous membrane of the hard palate, may be removed. Save in very malignant cases the excoriations are healed in a week or ten days, but a cicatrix is left behind; the papilla} upon the affected parts are not restored. The lesions may extend into the pharynx, and give rise to difficulty in swallowing, or into the trachea and bronciii, and produce cough. Feet. — The lesions are observed upon the skin in front, just above the hoof (termed by veterinarians the coronet), in the interdigital space, aud upon the heels behind. The rudi- mentary digits may also exhibit the lesion. Vesicles are formed which, on bursting, expose an intensely inflamed corium. Pus frequently is found upon the inflamed surfaces, but usually a scab speedily covers the wound, and healing- proceeds rapidly. Sometimes, however, a necrosis sets in and extends deeply, producing an arthritis, a necrosis of the bones, and often, especially in pigs, a loss of hoof. Death results frequently from septica3mia. The foot lesion, which attacks one, two, or even all the feet, induces lameness, and when the animal is standing in a stall the foot is frequently shaken as if to rid it of an offending object. A smacking of the lips, between which saliva is dribbling away, and shaking of a limb in the manner indicated, and lameness when the animal is moved, are almost diagnostic. The presence of the eruption, its character, and several animals manifesting the same symptoms and lesions, make diagnosis certain. The lesions, when observed upon the skin and mucous mem- bi'aiie of the vulva, upon the mammary gland, or upon the prepuce and skin, are similar to those observed upon the feet, and have a similar course. In Sheep. — Tiie lesions in the sheep are generally confined to the feet, upon the coronet, and most often towards the heels. The animals affected go lame, and linger behind their com- panions when travelled. The disease may in these animals be taken for "foot-rot," a common disease which is not contagious, but in " foot- rot," which is primarily a disease of the foot, VOL. Ill the lesions commence at the toe, and work up- wards, whilst in foot and mouth disease the lesions, if the horn-forming structures are in- volved, extend from above downwards. In the pig the disease affects the feet most commonly, and in this animal loss of the hoof is not rare. Occasionally lesions are observed upon the snout, and the vesicles may reach a great size. In the horse the disease is confined to the mouth, but the constitutional and local symjatoms in the mouth are similar to those observed in the bovine. Variola and a contagious form of stomatitis may have been taken for foot and mouth disease, but there is at least one authentic case-—the subject had licked a cow suffering from the disease. The disease has also been noticed in the dog and cat. It is also known to attack fowls, vesicles being developed in the mouth and pharynx, upon the conjunctiva, comb, and the membrane between the toes. In young of all species the disease is serioiis, and in addition to the local external lesions gastro-intestinal disturbance is indicated, and not infrequently proves fatal. Indeed, the greatest fatality is to be expected among the young at the teat, and milk fed from cows suffering from the disease. The disease is probably transmitted to man by milk taken from infected cows, or by butter and cheese prepared from such milk, or by direct in- oculation from animals suffering from the disease. The following examples illustrate the methods of transmission : Three veterinarians intention- ally drank milk from affected cows; a girl chewed a piece of wood smeared with saliva of a sick animal; again, a wounded hand or finger came in contact with infective buccal secretion ; and lastly, an injury was received from the teeth of a sick animal. The symptoms at first are malaise, headache and fever, diarrha'a, and in some cases a rigor and vertigo. About three to five days later, the temperature falls to about normal, and one sees a catarrhal inflammatiori of the mucous membrane of the mouth and pharynx, accompanied in about one-third of the cases by the formation of small vesicles. These may also appear on the lips, fingers, and toes. The stomatitis in some cases is so severe that small idcers are formed on the unicous mem- brane, especially of the giuns or the tongue. The urine in most cases remains normal. The duration of the disease is about four weeks. In exceptional cases one finds a skin eruption re- sembling measles, or vesicles on the skin of the trunk. The diagnosis in the hmnan subject is often difficult, es[)ecially in sporadic cases. The disease may be mistaken for aphthous stomatitis, herpes labialis or pemphigus, and the atypical forms may resemble measles, or even typhoid fevei', if the intestinal sjmiptoms be very pronounced. Post-mortem A]i2:iearanccs.—Few adult animals 2 2