FILARIASIS 289 being often followed by grave complications (Railliet). Filaria palpehralis, Er. Wilson, 1844.—Found in the excretory ducts of the lachrymal gland«, and under the eyelids in the horse, where they produce the same effects as F. laclirymalh. Railliet placed a female containing embryos in a horse's eye, but the embryos did not develop. Filar ia Evansi, Lewis, 1882. — Found by Evans at Madras in an autopsy on a drome- dary, the blood of which contained embryos similar to those of F. Bancrofti. The adult worms were in the lung and mesentery, the pulmonary arteries being obstructed by masses of tangled worms. Both the males and females are known. Goubeaux (1853) found filarias in a dromedary which died at Alfort in France, the worms being present in the lymphatic glands, one lachrymal gland, lung, blood, etc. Plot (1886) found tilariie in the testicle of a camel in Egypt. Filaria lahiato-papillosa, Alessandrini, 1838. Syn.: F. cervina, Duj., 184.5; F. terebra, Dies., 1851.—Found in the peritoneal cavity of cattle and various deer (Cervus elap/ms, C. columbianus, C. virginianus). Railliet considers the nema- todes observed in the eyes of cattle by Grisoni, Deguilleme, Santin, etc., to be fitly placed provisionally under this species. The worm greatly resembles F. equina morphologically. Filaria lachrymalis, Giirlt, 1831. Syn. : Tlielazia Rliodesii, De Blainville, 1828; bovis, Baillct, 1858; F. pnlpebrnruni, Baillet, 1858.—Found in the lachrymal duct of cattle, whence it may wander into the conjunctival sac. When numerous they may cause irrita- tion or corneal ulceration. The pai'asite may be directly removed or washed out by injec- tion of an anthelmintic. Filaria capra', von Linstow, 1883. — Found by Fedschcnko in Turkestan in the tongue muscles of a goat, only the fragments of a female having been examined. Filaria acufiuscula, Molin, 1857.—Found by Natterer in Brazil in the viscera of two species of peccary {Dicotyles albirostris and D. torqu- ati(x) and beneath the pectoral muscles of Vulpes a-jira'. Ninni found it under the skin of a dog in Italy. Filaria Osieri, Cobbold, 1879. Syn. : Stron- gi/his bronchialis canis, Osier, 1877.—Found to l)e the cause of an epizootic broncho-pneumonia in dogs at Montreal by Osier. Rabe and Blum- borg seem to have previously observed this worm in small nodules in the mucous membrane of the respiratory passages, each nodule contain- ing several of them. Both males and females wei'e present, the latter being most numerous. The ends of the worms projecting from the nodules presented a villous appearance—ovovi- parous. Filaria oculi canini, Gescheidt, 1833. Syn.: VOL. Ill F. trispinulom, Dies., 1851. — Found in the dog's vitreous. Determination doubtful. Filaria Jiejmtica, Cobbold, 1879.—Nematode larva3 of a doubtful character found by Mather (1843) in Edinburgh in the liver and intestine of a dog which suffered from dyspna^a, vomiting, alternate constipation and diarrhoea, finally bloody vomit, icterus, intense thirst, death. At the autopsy the stomach was found inflamed and exhibited ecchymoses and ulcerations, the duo- denum was invaginated, the small intestine was congested and dotted over with small cysts con- taining filarifc, which were also found free in the bile and hepatic ducts. Blood not examined. Filaria rytipjleuritea, Delongchamps, 1824.— Delongchamj^s discovered this parasite encysted in the adipose tissue of the cockroach (Feri- p)laneta orientalis). If the cysts are removed from the insect and placed in a suitable fluid, the worms bore their way out, and may live three or more days in a free condition. Galeb (1878) fed three white rats with infected cock- roaches, and, killing them after eight days, found the parasites, which had thrown off" their envelopes in the stomachs of the rats, lying in the folds of the mucous membrane. In one rat one male and three females were found, all perfectly developed. Fertilisation takes place in the rat's alimentary canal, and the eggs, escaping with the faeces, are devoured by the cockroaches. The embryos escape from the membi'anes after they have entei'ed the alimentary canal of the insect, and, boring their way through the intestinal wall, become encysted in the adipose tissue. The rat infects itself by feeding on cockroaches containing the encysted parasites. Filaria strumosa, Rudolphi.—Found in the mole {Talpa europcm) in various parts of Europe. Von Linstow (1887) claimed to have found the larval form encysted in the adijjose tissue of a beetle {Ceto7iia aurata). Filaria uncinata, R. — Occurs in the oeso- phagus of ducks and geese, causing death at times by its presence. Hamann (1893) dis- covered that the larva; develop in Dapjlmia 2mlex (Rich.), the latter being most plentiful in certain ponds during July-August in Prussia, when the ducks died most. The woi'ms produce tumours which project into the oesophagus, the tumours i-anging up to 1 cm. across. The small tumours contained worms 3 mm. long, the large ones worms 18 mm. long. Young ducks were most affected. They seem to die from starvation, being unable to swallow their food on account of the occlusion produced by the tumours. The worms give off" embryos, which escape by active motions through the mouth, or more usually with the fteces, the latter being- devoured by the Daphnia. The embryos bore their way through the crustacean's intestine, and develop most of the characters of the adult in this host. Sexual maturity is only attained 19