FRACTURES 350 Constitutional Symptoms.—First in import- ance amongst the constitutional consequences of fractures is that condition, often associated with old age, in which confinement to bed leads to the group of symptoms known as " hypostatic congestion." Inability to sleep, a little cough, slight wandering of the mind, associated with a progressive rise of temperature, show that the patient's heart is too weak to perform its func- tions, that the tone of the vaso-motor system is impaired, and that the lungs, having lost much of their elasticity, are little more than fibrous bags. Confinement to bed in such cases leads to oedema of the kings and a pneumonic con- dition which soon ends in death. The patient must therefore be propped up in bed, or placed upon a couch, to secure the most favourable condition for his pulmonary circulation, but the surgeon need not abandon hope of obtaining good bony union, for he will make use of some of the many forms of plaster of Paris appliance. Delirium is not an uncommon accompani- ment of fracture. Traumatic delirium coming on within a few days of the injury is seen both in children and in old people. It is sometimes met with in overwi'ought people who have traded too much upon their reserve of nerve force. The delirium is of a low, muttering variety without any rise of temperature, and it has but little to distinguish it, except the cause, from delirium tremens. The prognosis is bad in old people, good in children and the middle aged, if it shows signs of yielding to the ord- inary remedies of rest, sedatives, and diet. Delirium tremens is still far too common after fractures in every class of society. The onset is often very rapid. The delirium is active, and may be without any rise of temperature, though there is nearly always a temporary albuminuria. The patient shows a remarkable insensibility to pain, which is most disastrous to his perfect recovery, for he often succeeds in making a simple fracture compound, and he always pre- vents any accurate apposition of the ends of the bones in spite of every precaution the surgeon can adopt. The principles of treat- ment are to evacuate the contents of the stomach and large intestine, to restore the appetite, to procure sleep, and to prevent syncope. There is a third form of delirium associated with septic absorption, and associated, therefore, with a rise of temperature. This delirium is worse at night than in the daytime, and it ends when the suppuration is fully established. A broken bone often remains a source of trouble after it has healed. The callus may be so exuberant as to lead to pressure or impairment of movement; it may be painful, especially in rheu- matic, gouty, syphilitic, and agueish persons, or the pain may be due to direct inclusion of a nerve. Callus has been known occasionally to disappear altogether, so that a fracture which seemed to be firmly united has become ununited. It is not very uncommon for a sarcoma to appear at the seat of a fracture ; bony and cartilaginous tumours have also been observed. Fracture of the Clavicle.—A broken collar- bone is perhaps the most common fracture in childhood and youth. The frequency with which it occurs diminishes after the age of twenty, and it is a rare accident in persons over fifty years of age. Fracture of the shaft of the bone is more often the result of indirect than of direct violence, so that it is most com- monly produced by falls upon the shoulder, upon the elbow, or upon the outstretched hand. Direct violence causes a fracture at the part struck, and though there are well-authenticated instances of a healthy collar-bone being broken by muscular violence, this accident is most often seen in bones weakened by such chronic inflammatory conditions as scurvy or syphilitic periostitis. The fracture is rarely compound, multiple fracture is not very uncommon, and both bones may be broken. Immediately after the accident, in the case of simple fracture of one clavicle, the patient nurses his elbow with the opposite hand, and inclines his neck towards the injured side to relax the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles. This attitude is not absolutely characteristic of a broken collar-bone, for it is assumed in fractures of the scapula and in other injuries of the shoulder, but it serves to direct attention to the clavicle. The pain varies greatly in amount. It is not severe in a transverse fracture with only slight displacement, but in a very oblique fracture with much displacement the pain is great, and is caused partly by the sternal fragment pressing against the skin, and partly by the pressure of the outer end upon the large nerve trunks which pass below the clavicle. There is usually no difficulty in making a diagnosis of the oblique fracture at the junc- tion of the outer with the middle third, which is the ordinary result of indirect violence. The affected shoulder is narrower and more sloping than its fellow, whilst the bone lies so super- ficially that it is easy to feel any inequality. The displacement is considerable, the outer fragment being drawn downwards by the weight of the arm, forwards and inwards by the pectoral muscles, and it is at the same time pulled behind the inner fragment, and some- what rotated upon its axis by the action of the serratus magnus and pectoral is minor muscles, which pull the scapula forwards and inwards, whilst the rhomboidei draw up its lower angle. The sternal end of the clavicle pi-actically maintains its natural position. Crepitus is easily felt when the shoulder is pulled outwards or when the acromion is depressed. Forcible transverse compression of the upper part of the thorax occasionally breaks both