EPULIS 171 Epulis.—Any tumour growing from tlie gum or jaw, or, more strictly, a sarcomatous growtli arising at or near the neck of a tooth. See Mouth, Diseases of {Diseases of the Gums). Equifex Disinfector.—An apparatus V>y wliieli disinfection of articles is carried out by means of saturated steam. Equilibrium. PnYSIOLOGY OI' . . . . .171 Disorders of—Associated with Lesions OF— Peripheral Nerves, Spinal Cord, Medulla, Pons 172 Cerebellum, Cerelirum . . . .172 Ocular Muscles . . . . .172 Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth . .172 The Abdominal Viscera . . .173 See Brain, Cerebellum, Affections op {Experi- mental Physiology, Equilihratioti); Physiology, Nervous System, Cerebei^lum {Functions); Tabes Dorsalis {Symptomatology, Disturbance of Gait) ; Vertigo. Physiology. — The mechanism which is con- cerned in maintaining our bodies iu a state of eipiilibrium, both during station and locomotion, and which provides for the due co-ordination of our various movements, is very complex, and our knowledge of the subject is meagre. There is a central apparatus, together with afferent and efferent channels, which convey impulses to and from it; and on the integrity of this machinery as a whole, and on the harmonious working of its component parts, the maintenance of equilibrium depends. The afferent channels are sensory nerves from the skin, muscles, and joints, special sense nerves, such as that of sight and hearing, and especially the vestibular por- tion of the auditory nerve which receives impressions from the ampulla; of the semi- circular canals, and from the utricle and saccule, and visceral and other nerves, which convey obscure impulses from the viscera and other tissues. Tlie precise paths in the spinal cord by which the afferent imjDulses reach the central apparatus, and what parts of the central nervous system are comprised in the central portion of the machinery, are all points that are very imperfectly known. The posterior columns of the cord are certainly concerned, as are prob- ably the cerebellar tracts, while the cerebellum, corpora quadrigemina, pons, and medulla appear to be integral parts of the central apparatus, though the cerebrum is not wholly unconcerned in the matter. The motor paths and nerves supjjly the channels by which impulses are con- veyed to the muscles concerned, which are principallj' those of the lower extremities and trunk. Although consciousness may be called into play, tliis is not essential, in that guiding impressions may reach the centres concerned ■with equilibration, and may generate impulses which determine muscular conti'actions for the co-ordination of our movements without our being distinctly conscious of this. A simple procedure which serves to demon- strate the part played by impulses derived from cutaneous surfaces is that of rendering the soles of the feet anjesthetic by freezing the skin, for under such circumstances marked dis- turbance of equilibration becomes evident when an attempt is made to stand or walk. That other nerves, presumably from muscles and joints, are also concerned is made probable by the disturbances of co-ordination that may be met with in the absence of cutaneous antesthesia, as in the subjects of a disease such as locomotor ataxy. The importance of impulses derived from the semicircular canals may be determined in various ways. Thus, if a person with eyes closed be placed absolutely immobile, in the recumbent position, on a horizontal table which can be made to revolve, his abilit}^ to say in which direction he has been moved, and in some people the degree of displacement that has taken place, is the result of knowledge derived from the semicircular canals, though it may be that vaso-motor and other obscure influences also l^lay a part in this connection. Moreover, experimental destruction of tiie semicircular canals in animals results in profound disturb- ances of equilibration, a state of things that also obtains if the auditory nerve be divided or irritated. It is not so easy to determine with certainty what centres are directly concerned with this function, in that the disturbances of equilibra- tion which result fi'om destructive lesions of certain parts of the central nervous system may equally well be due to the interruption of paths through these regions, by which impulses habitually pass to centres concerned with equili- bration, but which are situated elsewhere, as b}' supposing that in the part destroyed are situated the centres concerned with the maintenance of equilibrium. Moreover, it is not easy to exclude the possibility that new and unusual impulses are generated at the seat of lesion, which on reaching the centres concerned with equilibra- tion cause the disturbances which are seen in these cases. The most striking phenomenon that results from experimental ablation of parts, or of the whole of the cerebellum, is disordered equilibration, and the same obtains when any of the peduncles of the organ are divided. Section of one cms cerebri is attended with a like result, as are lesions of the corpora quadri- gemina, pons, and medulla oblongata. It is of interest to note further that even lesions of the cerebrum have been attended by such disturb- ances in some instances. Moreover, as showing that the part played by the cerebrum in the maintenance of equilibrium is of considerable importance, may be instanced the fact that if ablation of the motor cortex be practised in a