FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL 302 (a) Glucose. — Evaporate down one portion (100 c.c.) to dryness, and then extract residue with hot water in order to dissolve the glucose. Now estimate the reducing power of this solution before and after fermentation with yeast in order to determine whether any reduc- ing substance apart from fermentable glucose be present. From the amount of Fehling solu- tion reduced the quantity of glucose present can be calculated. (6) Fats, Cholesterin, Lecithin. — Evaporate down the other portion at first on the water bath, and then in the exsiccator. Extract residue with warm ether, evaporate off the ether and weigh the residue = fats, cholesterin, lecithin. To estimate these separately the residue is dissolved in hot alcohol, and then absolute alcohol containing an excess of caustic potash is added. The rhixture is kept on the water bath at boiling point for one hour, and the alcohol then removed by evaporation. The residue contains potassium soaps, glycerine, caustic potash, glycero-phosphate of potassium, cholin, and cholesterin. Of these substances only two require to be estimated, namely, the glycero - phosphate of potassium and chole- sterin. Dissolve the residue in water and pour the solution into a flask, then extract with an equal quantity of ether, fresh ether being used three or four times. The ethereal layers are poured off' and collected, and the ether evaporated ofi^, the cholesterin residue then being weighed. The watery extract is evaporated down to dryness, incinerated Avith potassium nitrate, the ash dissolved in hot water, and the phosphate estimated. The amount of lecithin is obtained by multi- plying the weight of magnesium pyrophosphate by 7-27. If the amounts of cholesterin and lecithin be added together, and the sum subtracted from the total weight of the residue of the alcoholic- ethereal extract, the amount of fat is obtained. (3) Proteids. — The most important ones to estimate are those coagulable by heating. Take 25 c.c. of the fluid and dilute with four times its volume of water, neutralise the fluid, bring to boiling point, and then acidify with a few drops of weak acetic acid. Filter, wash precipitate with boiling water, alcohol, and ether, then dry first at moderate and then at higher temperatures up to 115° C. Cool in exsiccator and weigh. Dry until no more weight is lost. Incinerate the dry residue and subtract weight of ash from that of dried coagulum. In this way the coagulable proteids, free from salts, are estimated. The other proteids that may be met with in patho- logical fluids will be referred to later on in this article. Composition of Transudates and Exudates.— Not only is the amount of proteid in inflamma- tory exudates greater than in transudates, but the decomposition products of the albuminous substances also share in the increase. PaijkuU made the interesting observation that inflam- matory exudates always contain nucleo-albumins, while transudates do not. The amount of pi-o- teid in different serous transudates varies, always being greater in pericardial, pleural, and peri- toneal ffuids than in the arachnoideal. This may be due to a different degree of permeability of the capillarjr walls in these regions. The specific gravity of different transudates and exudates runs parallel with the amount of albumin which they contain. The proteids which are most commonly met with are serum albumin, serum globulin, and a small quantity of fibrin- ogen. Traces of mucin and nucleo-albumin are also often present. Albumoses and peptones never seem to be present, with the possible exception of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Transu- dates, unlike exudates, if they undergo coagula- tion at all, only do so very slowly, owing to the small amount of fibrinogen which they contain. The gases are the same as those that occur in lymph. Glucose is practically always present and very often traces of levulose. Frequently other reducing substances have been met with. Traces of sarcolactic, uric, and succinic acids, inosit and creatin also are often to be discovered. The amount of urea varies greatly in different transudates; very often only traces, however, are present. It is still doubtful whether pyrocatechin occur or not. The amount of fat varies greatly just as it does in the lymph, in certain cases when there has been a I'upture of lacteals the peritoneal fluid may contain large quantities of fat. Cholesterin and lecithin are usually present in small quantities. Pericardial Fluid.—One can obtain sufficient of this fluid for examination even under normal conditions. It is of a light yellow tint, of low specific gravity (1'006 to 1'013) and slightly viscid. Probably the most accurate analysis of this fluid is one given by Hammarsten :— Per cent. Water . . 96-085 Solids . . 3-915 r Fibrin . 0-031 Proteids . 2-86 \ Globulin. 0-595 [Albumin. 2-234 Soluble salts . 0-860 Insoluble salts 0-015 Extractives . 0-200 Pathologically this fluid may be simply increased in the amount of the transudation, or it may show an increase in the fibrin. In other cases it may contain blood or pus, or constituents derived from these or chyle. In the latter case the fluid is richer in solids than under other conditions (Hasebroek). Pleural Fluid.—This varies greatly in con-