ENEMATA 118 is free and not pushed against the internal sphincter, the sacrum, or a mass of fcEces. (3) Keep in mind the possibiUty of a syncopal attack following its use. A2yparatus.—Various forms of syringes are used for the injections. In cases where a medicinal agent is being given, and the quantity is about 2 to 4 oz., a small glass piston syringe with a slightly curved vulcanite nozzle is all that is required. For a nutrient enema, the quantity not exceeding 3 oz., a brass piston syringe or a simple elastic bottle with au ivory or gum-elastic nozzle can be used. Where a purgative enema is required, and the quantity is large, an instrument of the nature of a Higgin- son's syringe is most serviceable, care being- taken to see that it is full before commencing the injection so as to avoid the injection of air. Each contraction of the ball injects on an average one ounce of fluid. For irrigation of the boivel an ordinary douche apparatus, as used in obstetric practice, with a large-sized rubber catheter at the end of the tube, is required. The patient is placed in the following position, with mackintosh sheet below, and draining into a pail. The douche can is placed 4 or 5 feet above the bed. The catheter is oiled and placed within the anus before the water is turned on. As the water flows the catheter is passed steadily upwards for 12 to 14 inches if possible. Plain water, or a 75 per cent solution of salt and water (one teaspoonful to the pint), seems to be as efKcacious as any of the other fluids that are credited with antiseptic pro- perties. Therapeutic Uses. — Constipation. — The amount required for an adult is usually 1 to 2 pints; for a child of four years old, 4 to 6 ounces; and for an infant, 1 ounce. It may consist of soap and water, or soap and water with 3 or 4 ounces of turpentine, or gruel water either alone or mixed with olive or castor oil. These should all be given at a temperature of about 100° F. The enema magnesii sulphatis §xvj., and the enema aloes gx. (B.P.), are also valuable. Small enemas of cold water are very useful in some cases, probably acting by stimu- lating peristalsis. Glycerine.—This acts both as a stimulant and irritant to the rectum, an injection of 3j- or 3ij- producing a motion in about half an hour. In some cases glycerine produces a severe burning sensation, and can be advantageously diluted with equal parts of water or castor oil. Glycerine suppositories, of various forms and sizes, are a convenient form for administration. Intestinal obstruction.—The introduction of a large volume of soap, water, and oil in the manner previously described under intestinal irrigation may be very useful. In all cases of this nature, it should be borne in mind, large enemata should only be used after a very careful consideration of each individual case. Diarrhoea and Dysentery.—The enema under these conditions may be desired to act either as an astringent, an anti-spasmodic, or a sedative. For a sedative enema, the enema opii gij., whose basis is mucilage of starch, is probably the best. For a child of one year, n|_ij. to n\ iij. of tinct. opii in gss. of starch, of a suitable consistence, is sufficient. As a sedative and astringent to the mucous membrane of the lower bowel, bismuth sub- nitrate (5j. in giv. to 5vj. of water) or mucilage of starch is useful. If there is ulceration with a mucous dis- charge, silver nitrate (5 grs. to 1 pint water), zinc sulphate or copper sulphate (1 grain to the ounce of water), give better results. In the summer diarrhoea of infants, tannic acid (10 to 30 grs. to a pint of water) appears to render inert some of the animal poisons present. Irrigation may also have a soothing influence on the mucous membrane, and is useful in various forms of diarrhoea and in cases of recur- rent colic. In dysentery 4 to 6 pints of warm water, or of milk and water, have been injected as a form of internal fomentation. If there is reason to believe that gangi'ene is present, and is chiefly located in the rectum, emollient and antiseptic enemata are indicated. The amount injected should never be sufficient to distend the bowel immoderately, or to cause pain. Infusion of linseed is good as an emollient and sedative enema. Enemata of warm water, with potassium permanganate, or a weak solu- tion of carbolic acid, are of service when there are black sloughs or offensive debris in the stools. In cases of gangrenous rectiti.s repeated enemata of water acidulated with lemon juice have been recommended. Parasites.—The thread worm, or ascarides, can be got rid of by the following injections :— Enemata of salt and water, or lime water ; spirit of turpentine, oij- to qiv. with a yolk of an egg in giv. of water; infusion of quassia, gij. to a pint of water; enema aloes, or asafoetida (B.P.), 5iv. may also be employed. In giving an enema of quassia it is well to remember that symptoms of poisoning have occasionally arisen, a condition of powerful nar- cosis for many hours, with respiration and heart's action extremely feeble, having been observed. Ilatmorrhoids.—When necessary nothing is better than a simple enema of \ P™^ of cold water injected after breakfast. Slight bleeding from piles may be checked with injections of cold water. Haemorrhage.—After a profuse post-partum haemorrhage the collapse is greatly assisted by the slow injection of one or two pints of warm saline solution, or even warm water, into the