193 EXPECTORATION in small amount after severe coughing from rupture of some of the capillaries in the upper air-passages; it is then of no significance. One of the most common causes of ha3morrhage is a destructive change — almost invariably tuber- cular—in the pulmonary alveoli. Again, bleed- ing may be due to the bursting of a large vessel into a cavity; in such cases pure blood is brought up, often in great quantity. A slight admixture of blood is very common in serous sputa from rupture of the engorged pulmonary capillaries. A somewhat characteristic muco-sanguineous sputum may be caused by the " weeping " of a thoracic aneurysm which is eroding the wall of a bronchus; this often presages rupture of the sac. Little of practical worth has yet accrued from the chemical examination of the sputum. The chief albuminous constituents are mucin and luiclein, while in serous sputa we have serum- albumin, and in purulent sputa peptone. Fatty acids, glycogen, ferments, and various inorganic salts have also been found, but none of them have any particular clinical significance. (7) S'pecific Gravity and Reaction. — The specific gravity of the sputum lies between 1004 and 1037 ; it is of no importance. The reaction is always alkaline. II. The Sputum in various Diseases.— Bronchitis.—In acute bronchitis the sputum is at first scanty, viscid, and frothy, consisting cliiefly of mucus ; later it becomes more abundant and muco-purulent from the admixture of cells. Most of the cells are leucocytes, and in certain cases very many of these are eosinophilous. It has been proposed to call such cases (which have a subacute course, with relapses) eosinophilic bronchitis, but they do not appear to have such definite clinical features as to merit a special name. In the capillary bronchitis of childhood and age expectoration is commonly absent. In chronic bronchitis the expectoration may be very slight; usually, however, it is fairly abundant and muco-purulent. Sometimes it is so copious as to deserve the name bronchorrhoea, which may be mucoid or purulent. The sputum is usually odourless unless putrefactive changes ensue. It is generally most abundant in the morning, and is often expelled in large mouthfuls. It contains leucocytes, epithelium, and some- times fatty acid crystals. The last named, as well as moulds and yeasts, point to retention of the sputum in the bronchi. In dry chronic bronchitis scanty, tough pellets of mucus, some- times containing spirals and Charcot-Leyden crj'stals, are expectorated. Should bronchitis complicate another malady the sputum may derive from the blood substances — e.g. bile, sugar, urea—whose presence therein is due to the primary disease. Bronchiectasis and PrUrid Bronchitis.—In the former the sputum may be odourless; com- VOL. Ill monly, however, it is extremely foitid. The expectoration is darker than in bronchitis ; it has a somewhat oily consistence, and on stand- ing separates into three layers. It consists chiefly of mucus and pus cells, but may also contain Dittrich's plugs, various organisms (to one of which, possibly, the odour may be due), crystals of hsematoidin, cholesterin, and fatty acids, Charcot-Leyden crystals, and yellow elastic tissue. Dittrich's plugs are caseous masses originating in the smaller bronchi, and composed of debris, fat globules, crystals, putrefactive organisms, cercomonas, leptothrix, sarcinae, etc. Hfemoptysis may occur in bronchiectasis. Plastic Bronchitis.—Large fibrinous casts may be expectorated, which when floated out in water show the ramifications of the bronchi down to their finest terminations. In other cases only small casts of the bronchioles are brought up, though often in considerable numbers. Cursch- mann's spirals, eosinophile cells, and Charcot- Leyden crystals may accompany the casts. Asthma.—A mucous expectoration, with more or less admixture of cells, is present only towards the end of the paroxysm. Three special con- stituents require mention : Curschmann's spirals, which are more common in this disease than in any other, eosinophile leucocytes, and Charcot- Leyden crystals. Croupous Pneumonia.—In the early stage the viscosity of the sputum is sometimes so great that the spittoon can be inverted without its contents falling out. At this time the sputum may be clear, or but slightly yellow, but the typical rusty tint soon develops. In uncom- plicated cases the sputum is never very abund- ant ; it persists for a day or two after the crisis. By floating it out in water casts of the bronchioles can sometimes be seen. It contains a few leuco- cytes and a fair number of red cells, many of the latter, however, having yielded up their pigment to the ground substance of the expec- toration. The most imj)ortant constituent is the exciting organism—usually the pneumococcus, but sometimes the pneumobacillus or some other microbe. In almost no disease is the daily examination of the sputum so important as in pneumonia. Instead of being rusty, it may be greenish- yellow, chocolate, or prune-juice coloured. Should it suddenly become abundant and serous, the onset of cedema will be suggested. The expectoration of large quantities of dark-brown, frothy sputum is a bad sign; it is frequently due to localised necroses of hmg tissue, the areas being too small to yield recognisable physical signs. Other unfavourable terminations may be shown by a copious purulent spit, indicating (in the absence of bronchiectasis) abscess-formation, or by the occurrence of the foetid expectoration of pulmonary gangrene. Pulmonari/ Tuberc^dosis.—Owing to the ex- treme variability of the course and morbid 13