FRACTURES 360 serious fractures, where bony union has taken place in six or eight weeks, there is often an impairment of movement, and the patient remains lame for life. The Femur.—Fractures of the surgical neck of the femur, including the intra-capsular and extra-capsular fractures, impacted and unim- pacted, are considered under the article " Hip- Joint," whilst in the same manner fractures of the lower end of the femur, involving or near the knee, will be discussed under the heading " Knee-Joint." Fractures of the shaft of the femur are divided conveniently into those which occur below the trochanters and those of the middle third. They occur both in children and in adults, but in adults they are seen more often in men than in women. Fractures in the upper third of the shaft of the femur are nearly always the result of indirect violence, though they are due occasionally to muscular action. They are always very oblique and are often spiral, but in children a fracture through the shaft of the femur may be transverse or of the greenstick variety. The signs of a subtrochanteric fracture are sufficiently characteristic to leave very little doubt as to its nature in the majority of cases. The pain deformity, unusual mobility at the seat of fracture, and the crepitus are well marked, whilst there is much shortening. The displacement is considerable, and is a trouble- some factor in treatment. The short upper fragment is tilted forwards at a varying angle to the pelvis by the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles, and is at the same time everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and gluteus minimus muscles. The lower fragment is drawn upwai'ds by the rectus and hamstrings, whilst it is rotated outward by the weight of the foot and the adductors. The direction of the obliquity often causes the lower fragment to lie along the inner side of the upper fragment. The indications for treatment are to approxi- mate the two ends of the bone, and to maintain the lower part of the shaft in an abducted position. These indications are followed by flexing the thigh, by traction, and by allowing it to lie somewhat upon its outer side during the process of repair. A Hodgen's splint (Fig. 18) is therefore the most satisfactory appliance for subtrochanteric fractures. It consists of two rods of iron slightly bent at the level of the knee, the two bars being connected at the lower end by a straight bar and at the upper end by a curved one. The splint reaches from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to three inches below the external malleolus on the outer side of the leg, and from the adductor longus tendon to an equal distance below the internal malleolus on the imier side of the limb. It is applied to the front of the leg and thigh, so that the limb is slung between the lateral rods by a series of strips of house-flannel which over- lap each other, the ends of each strip being separated, stitched, or pinned round the sides of the splint. Extension is made by a weight, Fig. 18.—a fractured thigh treated by Hodgen's splint. pulley, and strapping, in the manner to be described immediately, and the whole apparatus is slung at a convenient angle, as is seen in Fig. 18. Under many conditions it is inconvenient or impossible to use a Hodgen's splint, and recourse must then be had to the double in- clined plane (Fig. 19). The angle should be as obtuse as possible, and only so much bandage should be applied as is sufficient to keep the limb at rest in a good position. The splint should be kept on for six weeks or two months, the thigh being massaged after the twentieth day. When the splint is removed the patient must be careful of his leg for some time, as it is not unusual for the thigh to be refractured as the result of a false step or a slip. A plaster of Paris case may be applied to the thigh for a month after the splint has been removed, the patient learning to walk in the meantime upon crutches. In every case he must be warned that the shortening may be so considerable as to cause him to limp, but there is usually good bony union. In cases of angular union, and when the limb is greatly crippled, the question of resection of the end of the bone may be reasonably entertained. The surgeon must, of course, deal with each of these cases on its merits, but unless he be skilful, experienced,