GANGRENE 398 side of the face may be destroyed, the bones occasionally being involved. In other cases the process is a gangrenous stomatitis, giving rise to a foul breath from foetid material which has been swallowed. The symptoms of acute poisoning (saprtemia) soon show themselves, and the patient becomes comatose and dies in three or four days. Septic pneumonia is often a cause of death in this disease. [See " Stomatitis.") Bacteriologically a long delicate bacillus has been proved to be the cause. The aiithor has had under his care two cases of noma which recovered after the free use of the thermo- cautery, and in which extensive plastic opera- tions had subsequently to be performed. The word noma is sometimes restricted to this process occurring about the genitals of children. {d) Carbuncle and boil and acute necrosis are classed by some authors as forms of gangrene. (e) Gangrene in beriberi has been seen. A thin black line crossed the tips of the toes, and dry gangrene followed in both feet, requiring amputation of both legs at the seat of election. Undoubtedly the gangrene was due to a peri- pheral neuritis which so often occurs in this disease. The neuritis is caused by the direct action of toxins (produced by a micro-organism) on the nerve itself. Treatment.—Some general remarks will be made on the treatment of gangrene, and then the treatment of each variety will be dealt with shortly. To begin with, the whole treatment of gan- grene must be altered now, our methods have so much improved, and especially is this true as regards the question of amputation. We can, with safety and with much less chance of slough- ing of flaps, amputate very much earlier than we formerly could, thus saving the patient much painful suffering and danger from the presence of a septic dead mass of tissue. A second im- portant result of our better antiseptic methods is the fact that we can boldly cut down on a ruptured aneurysm or compound fracture, re- lieve pressure on vessels of effused blood, and thus often prevent gangrene. It is most im- portant in all cases of gangrene to get at the exact cause; thus a tight bandage should be removed at once, or a free incision should be made in inflammatory tissue, if causing obstruc- tion to the flow in the main vessels. The stricture in a piece of strangulated bowel or omentum should be divided at once, and so with a paraphymosis, if elevation and attempts at reduction fail. If in a limb the main vessels cannot be re- lieved, then the limb should be raised, the joints flexed, and the parts should be lightly wrapped in cotton wool. If the gangrenous part has not become septic, then the greatest care must be taken to cleanse skin, nails, etc., and salicylic wool and iodoform should be placed between the toes or similar situations after thorough cleansing. If septic, such a limb should not be poulticed, but a boracic fomentation should be placed a little above the line of demarcation. Sloughs have to be removed, and the best application is a bran poultice covered with boracic powder. Wait for a line of demarcation, keep aseptic if possible, but don't wait too long, especially in septic or spreading cases, are the broad rules which must guide our judgment. A nourishing diet, stimulants, and tonics are also required, and small doses of opium, except where there is diabetes or renal disease. Where these constitutional diseases exist, special dietetic and medicinal treatment must be employed. Traumatic.—Warm antiseptic lotions must be used freely to thoroughly cleanse. Ascer- tain if there is any pulsation; if not, see that the main vessels are not pressed on by extra- vasated blood or compound fracture. Do not amputate at once if there is much shock, but rather wait for eight or ten hours. I quite agree, from a large experience of severe smashes, with those authorities who advocate waiting in order to let the patient recover and the parts be made aseptic. The rule for amputating is, to do so, only when you are convinced that there is no circulating blood in the tissues. On the other hand, we must not try to save the part in the case of albuminuria, diabetes, or other constitutional disease. The subject of these diseases will not stand the long-continued drain upon them, and very often amputation has to be resorted to later, when strength to rally no longer remains. Raynaud's Disease.—Preventive, tonics, fric- tions, warm douches, electric baths, attend to any uterine complication, keep aseptic. In no case is it necessary to amputate. Rather cover with iodoform and allow tips of fingers to gradu- ally drop off Ergot.—In this form it is very rare to find more than a finger or toe aff'ected, and amputa- tion is not generally necessary. Diabetic. — Codeine to 5 grs., or small doses of opium, very useful. In such cases any septic woimd should be specially looked after, as its neglect is highly dangerous. Amputate very early; rule here completely changed from what it used to be. If there is a plug high in a main vessel, don't do a regular amputation, but dust with iodoform, divide bone, and allow to drop oif gradually. Senile Gangrene.—Early amputation is now the treatment, well away from the gangrene, and in the case of the foot through the knee- joint, even if pulsation be felt below. The patient here must be warned about septic abrasions and wounds about the toes.