, DEVELOPMENT OF FCETUS AND OVUM, 321 from these facts that from a very early period of gestation onwards the liver is an active organ, with functions similar in all respects to those of the adult organ, and its work as a food transformer, heat producer, and waste eliminator must be of commanding importance in the general nutrition of the foetus. The Fatal Kidneys.—Observations are greatly needed as to the time at which a renal secretion first appears in the foetus. It is well estab- lished that during the last two months of gestation a fluid is commonly present in gi'eater or less amoinit in the bladder, which since it contains urea, water, albumin, and chlorides, is obviously a true renal secretion. In cases of congenital occlusion of the urethra the bladder is usually found enormously distended; this leads to the conclusion that not only is urine secreted continuously during this period, but, under normal conditions, it is from time to time voided from the bladder into the amniotic sac. Albumin is commonly found in the urine of new-born children whether premature or mature; Preyer has shown that it transudes from the foetal blood through the glomeruli, and he attributes its presence to the ill - developed state of the glomerular epithelium in the foetus. It is most abundant about three days after birth, and disappears about the eighth day. It has been shown also that substances adminis- tered to the mother will find their way into the fa^tal urine and liquor amnii. Thus if benzoate of soda be given to a woman in labour, hippuric acid may be detected in the urine of the new- born child, and also in the liquor amnii. The substance has thus probably passed first through the placenta from the maternal to the foetal blood, and thence through the kidneys into the urine, and through the skin, or urine into the liquor anmii. The Skin.—The adult skin contains two sets of glandular structures, the sebaceous glands and the sudoriparous glands. In the fa^tus the sel)aceous glands appear first, being active as early as the 5th month, when vernix begins to accumulate upon its surface. The sweat glands, although they appear about the same period (5th month) are unprovided with ducts until the 7th month, so that they cannot be function- ally active before the latter date. The vernix consists of almost pure fat, with which are mixed debris of epithelial cells and lanugo hairs. The structure of the skin is very simple, the horny layer of the epidermis being practically absent, while the rete is very vascular; it is probal;)le, therefore, that transudation can readily occur through the skin from the fretal blood to the liquor amnii. In this way urea, e.g., may enter the liquor anmii. Beyond the albundant production of fat by the sebaceous glands, nothing is, however, definitely known of the functions of the foetal skin. VOL. Ill Other Foetal Glands.—The activity of the mammic at birth has often been noted, but is of no physiological importance. In some mammals a proteolytic ferment has been de- tected in the foetal stomach, and an amylolytic ferment in the pancreas, but these observations have not been confirmed in the human foetus. Regarding the functions of the thymus and thyroid glands in intra-uterine life nothing is known. Meco)mwi.—This sulistance is the most im- portant of the foetal excretions, the others have already been referred to, viz. the urine and the vernix caseosa. Its principal constituent is bile, with which are mixed the secretions, if any, of the gastric and intestinal glands, and extraneous materials, such as lanugo hairs and epidermis scales, which have been carried into the intestinal canal by swallowed liquor amnii. The meconium is commonly found equally dis- tributed in the mature foetus, from the duo- denum to the rectum. This appears to indicate that peristaltic movements occur in the foetal gut which pass the meconium mass downwards as it accumulates in the duodenum; it is possible that these peristaltic movements are excited reflexly by the contact of the acid meconium with the mucous membrane. Gas is never found in the foetal stomach or gut, and no putrefactive processes occur in the meconium. This is a point of forensic importance in relation to the question of infanticide versus still-birth. It is curious to note that in the embryo chick fa3cal masses are also formed in the intestine before it leaves the shell, which consist largely of jaroducts of the hepatic secretion (Preyer). The Amnion.—The structure of the amnion does not undergo much alteration after its first formation. It consists of a single layer of cuboidal or low columnar epithelium I'esting upon a stratum of loose connective tissue with wide meshes. It can be easily stripped off the chorion Ixve and the foetal surface of the placenta up to the insertion of the umbilical cord, but not from the cord itself. The fluid it contains is probably foetal in origin; it is formed ab initio in the blastodermic vesicle by segregation from the foetal tissues; after the formation of the placenta it probably comes, in great part, by transudation, from the vessels exposed upon the foetal surface; during the later months transudation may also occur through the foetal skin, and small quantities of urine may from time to time be voided from the fatal bladder. It must, however, be admitted that this view is open to objection, and many observers maintain that it arises from the maternal blood-vessels. In favour of this view are the following facts:—(1) That the fa?tus is known to swallow considerable quantities during intra-uterine life, and it seems vnilikely that it should excrete fluid merely to be swallowed again ; (2) There is experimental evidence that 21