ECLAMPSIA, NEW THEORIES OF ORIGIN AND METHODS OF TREATMENT 11 is far from being discredited, and that there are, in consequence, reasons still in force in support of the rapid termination of pregnancies in which eclampsia develops. New Methods of Treatment.—It cannot be said that any of the new methods of treatment which have been introduced within the last few years have been shown markedly to reduce the mortality from eclampsia. The introduction of Bossi's metallic dilator of the cervix gave a rapid and in proper cases (i.e. cases in which the cervix was taken up) a safe method of dilating in order quickly to empty the uterus, but it does not ajjpear that tlie results following its use are such as to justify its employment in the cases in which the cervix is not taken up, for in them the risk of severe lacerations is con- siderable. In order to avoid tlie risks associated with rapid dilatation, the operation of vaginal section (often called, somewhat misleadingly, vaginal Csesarean section) has been practised. With the patient in the lithotomy position the operator exposes the cervix (with a speculum) and draws it down to the vulva (with volsellie). If the patient be a primipara, with a narrow vulva and vagina, it may be well to do an episiotomy at once to give room. An incision is then made through the mucous membrane of the anterior lip of the cervix and the anterior vaginal wall of an inverted T (j.) shape. The bladder is now separated from the cervix by the fingers or the handle of the knife until the peri- toneum of the utero-vesical pouch comes into view ; the latter is not incised. The cervix is next split in the middle line with scissors, pulled farther down with the volselhe, and the incision (4 inches long) is carried farther up into the lower uterine segment. If the operation be near the full term it will be well to incise the posterior as well as the anterior lip of the cervix. Bleeding is controlled during the making of the incisions by downward traction upon the cervix. The delivery of the child is now rapidly accom- plished, the placenta removed, and the uterus massaged and (perhaps) packed with gauze. The incisions in the cervix are closed with sutures (continuous or interrupted catgut) placed near together'; the posterior incision (when present) is closed first. Care must be taken that the sutures do not catch in the gauze packing in the uterus. The vaginal incision is closed by continuous catgut suture, and the perineum is repaired (if episiotomy have been performed). In order to check the convulsions and give time for medicinal means to have effect, lumbar puncture has been employed. The theory of its mode of action is very simple ; it is taken for granted that the convulsions are due to increased cerebro-spinal tension ; therefore, if some of the cerebro - spinal fluid be removed by puncture of the arachnoid space the tension will be diminished, and the fits will for the time cease ; this interval of freedom from fits may be utilised for the application of other forms of treatment which will effectually and per- manently remove the cause which has led to the high tension. Dr. Helme of Manchester used this treatment in December 1903 (Bi it. Jled. Journ. i. for 1904, p. 1131), in a typically severe case of eclampsia in which saline injections, thyroid extract, and chloral had previously been given, and the patient recovered. It was noted that the fluid escaped from the canal as if under considerable pressure. Three cases treated in the same way by B. Kronig also recovered {Zentrlbl. f. Gyndk. xxviii. 1153, 1904) ; but out of sixteen cases dealt with by Max Henkel four terminated fatally {Zentrlbl. f. Gyndk. xxviii. 1329, 1904). I reported a case in which I used lumbar puncture in October 1904 {Trans. Edin. Obstet. Soc. XXX. 132, 1904-5); it was a grave case, and proved fatal. I noted that the fluid did not escape freely from the needle, oozing out drop by drop. I have since used it in another grave case, which also terminated fatally, and in it, also, the cerebro-sj^inal fluid escaped drop by drop. It does not appear, therefore, as if treat- ment by lumbar puncture could claim any superiority over other methods. A recent com- munication on the subject is that by Proud {Brit. Med. Journ. i. for 1906, p. G78); in two cases recovery followed the puncture. It was also carried out in a remarkable case reported by Jardine in which 200 fits occurred, and the patient recovered {Journ. Obst. Gynwc. Brit. Empire, x. 38, 1906). Another surgical method of dealing with eclampsia, renal decapsulation, was introduced by Edebohls in 1903 {Amer. Journ. Obstet. xlvii. 783, 1903 ; 1. 260, 1904). It was recommended also by Sippel {Zentrlbl. f. Gyndk. xxviii. 479, 1904). Its object is to diminish intra-renal tension. Chambrelent and PoTisson perform incision of the kidney substance (nephrotomy) as well as splitting of the capsule {Gaz. hebd. d. sc. med de Bordeaux, xxvii. 173, 1906); and Pinard thinks it should be limited to cases in which there is complete anuria {Bull. acad. de med. 3 s. Iv. 489, 1906). Eclampsia Nutans. — Salaam con- vulsions. See Head-Suaking. Eclecticism. — In ancient times there was a class of philosophers who, without attach- ing themselves to any one school of thought, " selected such doctrines as pleased them in any school" (Gr. eK/Veyeu', to select); so, in modern use, the word has come to mean a system {e.g. of medical practice or of therapeutics) unfettered by the rules or opinions of any special form of theory or practice. An eclectic remedy or drug- is one to which popular belief attributes certain curative qualities or powers, although scientific medicine does not or cannot explain its mode of