FASCIA 256 temporal, buccal, masseteric, and the cranial aponeurosis. Of greater importance than these and coterminous with them is the deep cervical fascia of the neck, which acquires much surgical interest from its bearing upon deep cellulitis of neck (angina Ludovici), its relations to the deep veins, and the possibility of entrance of air into the veins by dragging upon the fascia (canalisation of veins). It also directs the course and determines the position of spontaneous opening ,of glandular and of cervical spinal abscess, and being continued in front down to the mediastinum permits the spread of inflammatory exudations in cut throat and tracheotomy. The deep fascia is also contracted in congenital torticollis and in spasmodic wry-neck. In the thorax the pectoral fascia contains numerous lymphatics which are the channels of general infection in scirrhus of the breast. This fascia is also pro- longed upwards as the costo-coracoid membrane, which has an important relation to the first part of the axillary artery. In the upper extremity many parts of the deep fascia have received special names, for example, the scapular, the axillary, the fascia of the upper arm or brachial, the deep fascia of the forearm with its annular ligaments, and the fascia of the palm which is the site of Dupuytren's con- traction. The muscles of the posterior ab- dominal regions are bound down, and some take their origin from the fascia lumborum, which together with the psoas fascia determines the course of spinal abscesses. Anteriorly the transversalis fascia has important relations to inguinal hernia, a special prolongation of it on to the spermatic cord being named the infundi- buliform fascia. It is continued downwards on the lateral aspect of the abdomen, and is known as the fascia iliaca where it covers the iliacus muscle ; while anteriorly a small portion passes beneath Poupart's ligament, forming the deep crural arch and the front part of the crural sheath. On the spermatic cord are found the cremasteric fascia and the inter-columnar fascia which is derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. The pelvic fascia, with its derivatives the obturator and recto - vesical fascise, are of more anatomical than surgical interest. That firm, strong envelope of the thigh, the fascia lata, acquires importance from the relation of its saphenous opening to femoral hernia, while on the outer side of the thigh its fibres are so strongly developed as to form a tendon-like structure, the ilio - tibial band. Below the knee an investing sheath of fascia is found, forming at the ankles the annular ligaments. The fascia of the leg is prolonged into the sole of the foot as the plantar fascia. Injuries.—Rupture, and Hernia of Muscle.— Both superficial and deep fascife are involved in wounds of some depth. The deep fascia is often extensively ruptured and lacerated in contusions and wounds produced by forces of a tearing nature and in compound fractures of the tibia ; the fractured ends of bone are sometimes seen protruding through the deep fascia. If the wound be rendered aseptic, healing of the rent in the fascise, as of other soft parts, follows, but if suppuration occur, then pus tracks extensively beneath the fascia and travels to a considerable distance between the muscular compartments. Occasionally, even in an aseptic wound, or without any loss of skin and superficial tissue, the rent in the fascia fails to heal, and a hernia of muscle follows. Lejars describes it as occurring after violent contusions, ulcerations of the fascia, and surgical wounds; and Delorme quotes two cases, one of Verneuil's, where a hernia of the tibialis anticus, as large as the last phalanx of the thumb, prominent during contraction of the muscle, and receding when the muscle was relaxed, followed on ligature of the anterior tibial artery. The other case quoted by Delorme occurred in the forearm after the introduction of a seton, and when the hernia was reduced an opening could be felt in the deep fascia. Hernia of the muscles, especially of the adductors, is met with also in cavalry and hunting men. Such a hernia is recognised by its position, its reducibility when the muscle is in repose, its sudden appearance and harden- ing when the muscle contracts, and in most cases after its reduction a clear, well-defined opening can be felt in the deep fascia. As to treatment, the pressure of an elastic rubber bandage may serve to keep the hernia back, but if this fail, or if the hernia be rapidly in- creasing and giving rise to trouble, it may be cut down upon, the fascial edges freed, and united over the muscle by a continuous suture. Diseases. — Inflammation and sloughing occur in the superficial fascia, and frequently extend to the deep fascia, as in the course of cellulitis, when large portions may be drawn out in the form of wash-leather sloughs. Con- traction of the deep fascia is best seen in the palm (Dupuytren's contraction) and in the sole of the foot in association with talipes equino- varus and acquired talipes calcaneus. The deep fascia is often the site of gummata, and occasion- ally of new growths such as fibromata and sarcomata. The writer has met with several cases of true fibroma of the plantar fascia. Du2mytren's Contraction (Contraction of the Palmar Fascia).—It is an important fact to grasp that in this affection not only is the palmar fascia itself involved, but also its digital prolongations. The male sex is more commonly affected, and the proportion is about twenty males to one female. The fingers on the ulnar side of the hand are more usually involved, the ring finger the most frequently, then the little finger, and often both fingers. But it must not