345 FRACTURES parts su that the blood is poured out in con- sidei'able quantity both from the periosteum and from the vascular medulla. Tlie blood remains fluid for six or eight days, by which time the periosteum near the fracture is swollen, and its fibres are dissociated by exudation and the proliferation of cells in its deeper layers. This forms the first or hemorrhagic period in the repair of a fracture; it is of very short duration in such vascular bones as those of the face, which heal almost by first intention, and it is i^roportionately jjrolonged where severe injury has given rise to much laceration, or where disease, as in scurvy and ha3mophilia, has led to a great effusion of blood. The second, embryonic or cartilaginous, stage is that in which inflammatory tissue is produced in abundance on every side by the periosteum, the Haversian canals, and the medulla. In adults tlie inflammatory cells are abundant and the cartilage cells are few, but in animals and in children the cartilage cells may be very numerous. The blood is absorbed and the embryonic tissue or blastema becomes converted into fibrous tissue, the organised callus. The portion of callus lying farthest away from the bone becomes organised more rapidly than that which lies between the broken ends and within the medullary canal. New bony tissue is then formed beneath the periosteum and within the medullary canal by the ordinary process of intra- oartilaginous or intra-membranous ossification, and this constitutes the third stage in tlie repair—that of provisional callus—whose for- mation and consolidation lasts on an average from fifteen to forty days. The provisional callus is at first porous, but the final process of repair is one of modelling, which lasts for months or years. The modelling process is a combination of a rarefying osteitis at the periphery, combined with sclerosing osteitis at its centre, and it continues until the callus is converted into normal bone, and until all sharp edges, spicules, and fragments of the original bone have been rounded off'. It must not be thought, however, that these stages exist independently of each other or have well-defined limits. They are all processes in the general train of repair, and so pass insensibly into each other. Repair in a septic or comjxmnd fracture takes place in a manner similar to that just described, but the process is masked, hampered, and modified by the suppuration. Tlie callus is less uniformly deposited, granulations are formed in abundance, and the bony fragments are joined ultimately by the union of granulations, which anastomose one with another, and rapidl}' be- come converted into bone. Many pitfalls surround the repair of fractures. The process may be completed so quickly that the bone is firmly united in a bad position before the surgeon has set it, or even has realised that he is dealing with a fracture. This is most likely to happen in a broken nose or in a greenstick fracture. Repair may be unduly delayed on the other hand, or it may never take place at all, as is most frequent in the humerus, in the tibia, and in the femur, where it is difficult to keep the two fragments motionless. In other cases so much callus may be produced as to lead to serious difficulties by the pressure which it exercises upon the nerves or blood-vessels in the neighbourhood. The Prognosis of a primary fracture involves two separate considerations, the danger to life and the danger to the limb. The danger to life depends in part upon the general condition of tlie patient, his age, and his freedom from renal and bi'onchial troubles; and in part upon the character of the individual fracture, which may lead to injury of the brain, lungs, or pelvic viscera. The prognosis in regard to the utility of the limb after a fracture must always be guarded, even in the most simple forms of injury, because, although the result depends to a great extent upon the vigilance of tlie surgeon and his attention to detail, there is an element of uncertainty which renders it most unwise to be too sanguine either as to the duration of treatment or the usefulness of the limb. Extensive series of examinations of fracture by means of the Rcintgen rays have shown that perfect union is rare, and that oblique fractures generally have some over- lapping of the broken ends, whilst in deep- seated bones there is often much bony deformity which it is impossible to recognise by the ordinary diagnostic methods. The prognosis becomes more grave, therefore, when the bone is much comminuted, when the line of fracture is very oblique, when it is close to a joint, and when the large vessels and nerves of the limb are injured. It will be the duty of the surgeon in some cases to recommend amputation of the limb or excision of a joint in some cases of fracture. The operation is either jjrimarj' or secondaiy. A primary amputation is required when the limb is hopelessly shattered, as in railway smashes, and in the extensive comminuted fractures caused by explosions, or the passage over a limb of such heavy and slowly-moving objects as drays and tram-cars. The duty of the surgeon is quite plain in these accidents, but there exist a great group of doubtful cases which often exercise the highest art of the surgeon to decide whether he should amjaitate at once or should wait. On the one hand he may sacrifice a limb unnecessarily, on the other he may cause the death of his patient by delay. Young and healthy adults may recover after excessive laceration of the soft parts with extensive comminution and denudation of the bone, after implication of a large joint, after the main vessel has been ligatured, and tiie main