319 dp:velopment of FCETUS AND OVUM, fibrin may be found in the chorion immediately outside the placental margin at all periods of gestation up to term, and the changes seem to be identical with those occurring in infarcts. In the placenta the process is modified by the presence of the maternal blood-spaces. Changes in the Maternal Structures.—Fried- lander first drew attention to the fact that extensive thrombosis occurs in the subplacental uterine sinuses during the later months of pi'eg- nancy ; his observations have recently received complete confirmation by other observers. As early as the seventh month large thrombi form in these sinuses, conmiencing in the muscle and gradually extending towards the placenta. The number of sinuses afiected is relatively small, and in view of the free anastomoses which exist, it is doubtful if they form any serious obstruc- tion to the outilow from the intervillous spaces. Friedlander believed that the thrombosis was started by large cells of decidual origin which made their way into the veins by diapedesis. The presence of "giant cells" in the affected vessels has been frequently observed, and it is feasible to suppose that the clotting commences around them. It has already been mentioned that epiblast buds of the chorionic villi have the power of penetrating the decidual vessels, and it may be that some of them are carried by the blood stream into the muscular layer and effect a lodgment there. The precise nature of the giant cells must be regarded as undeter- mined. The serotina at term consists of two well- differentiated layers — a superficial compact, and a deep cavernous or ampullary layer. When the placenta is shed separation occurs through the latter, part of the layer going with the placenta, and part remaining attached to the uterus. The wide irregular spaces con- tained in the ampullary layer represent dilated glands, and even at term retain traces of their columnar epithelium. From the epithelium thus left behind at the placental site and else- where the endometrium is regenerated during the puerperium. The compact layer has under- gone marked changes. Its superficial strata show that the decidual cells have degenerated, their nuclei have finally disappeared, the outlines of the cells themselves are blurred or lost, and a mass of fibrillated material, easily recognised as fibrin, is deposited upon them from the blood in the maternal sijaces. The degenerated decidual cells have much the same staining reactions as those of the degenerated chorionic epithelium, and the two processes are, no doubt, closely allied. Tliis change in the superficial layers of the serotina maj^ be found at any time from the seventh month of gesta- tion onwards to term. The changes above described in the chorion and decidua, it must be clearly understood, are not pathological. In an organ with a short life-cycle like the placenta, the stages of growth, maturity, and decay succeed one another rapidly. Degeneration of vessels and atrophy of epithelial structures are associated with old age in all organs of the body, and such changes in the placenta are no more pathological pheno- mena than are the thickened arteries and wasted skin of aged persons. Their effect upon the functional capacity of the oi'gan is difficult to estimate. Their gradual onset and slow pro- gress make them much less serious distui'bances than if they ran a rapid course. Probably sufficient placental tissue always remains active to provide adequately for the nutrition of the fffitus. It may be, however, that the onset of labour coincides generally with a period at which the placenta becomes unfit for the further performance in its functions, and in this way placental degeneration may be the most im- portant factor in determining the termination of the period of gestation. Nutrition of the Fcetus in Utero.—We have seen that from the end of the first week of development onwards, the human ovum re- ceives nourishment from the maternal organism through a placental arrangement, at first general and simple, later, partial and specialised. In what manner the ovum is nourished during the first week, when it increases about twenty times in size, we do not know. In birds sufii- cient nutriment is stored up in the umbilical vesicle (yelk) to carry the embryo through. In the minute human ovum such cannot be the case. Some recent observations by Hubrecht may throw light upon the question. He has studied with great care the early stages of development of the hedgehog, an animal be- longing to a family (insectivora) which, with the apes and man, is distinguished among mammals by possessing a discoidal placenta. Hubi'eeht describes the formation, in the very early stages, of a zone of vascular tissue around the ovum, composed partly of the ectoderm of the blastodermic vesicle, and partly of the adjacent cellular tissue of the decidua. This layer, whicii he calls the troi')hosphere, is richly supplied with maternal blood. When the vitelline circulation is established primitive mesoblastic villi from the wall of the umbilical vesicle push their way into the trophosphere, and as they contain branches of the vitelline vessels, the effect is to bring the fffital and maternal blood into close relations with one another. There is, in fact, in the hedgehog a temporary vitelline placenta preceding the formation of the permanent or allantoic placenta. AVe do not know whether there is any homologue of the vitelline placenta in man, but Hubrecht's observations are highly suggestive. The fatal processes of nutrition and oxygena- tion are carried on throiigh the placenta. As we shall see in a later paragraph, the excretory organs of the fcEtus become active at a surpris-