ENZYMES 125 Fat-splitting Ferment . . . .133 Urinary Enzymes . . . . .133 MONOSACCHARIDE-SPLITTING EnZYMES . 133 Oxidising and Reducing Enzymes . . 134 See also Digestion and Metabolism ; Im- munity ; Physiology, Protoplasm. The terms organised ferments or fermentimj; organisms were formerly held essentially to denote the lower living fungi or bacteria., the unorganised ferments or enzymes being those substances secreted by animal and vegetable cells which can split up molecules by means which are not dependent on the life of the cells. It is probably advisable, however, now to dis- card our notions of the organised ferments, and simply to regard the ferments (the unorganised ferments of former writers) as identical with the enzymes. The splitting power of the organised ferments or micro-organisms is sup- posed to be essentially due to zymolysis, but such enzymes are certainly not excreted by all micro-organisms. In such cases the fermentative processes are probably carried on insiJe the liv- ing celh, i.e. that there are so-called active " Endoferments," which as a rule do not appear outside the cells, but which can be abstracted from them by means of certain processes involv- ing the death of the cells. The ferment is often contained in the cells merely in the form of a zymogen, an antecedent liody from which the true enzyme is formed under definite conditions only. So far as can be determined from those pure and yet active preparations hitherto produced, the enzymes are proteids as regards their chem- ical nature. The reactions of such preparations, if used in not unduly dilute solutions, essentially correspond with those of the proteids. Elementary analysis, too, supplies data which point to the fact that enzymes belong to the proteid group; for instance, pure pancreatic fer- ment (52-75% C, 7-51%, H., 16-55% N., 23-19% 0. and S., 1-77% ash). The actual position of enzymes in the proteid group is still the subject of discussion. Osborne, for example, regards diastase as a combination of albumin and pro- teose, while Wroblewski holds the same enzyme to be a substance closely related to albumose. Most of the enzymes can be precipitated by those substances commonly used to precipitate proteids (salts, e.g. ammonium sulphate, alcohol), and they are soluble in water and glycerine. Their activity is, however, impaired by all pro- cedures wliich involve precipitation and purifica- tion. To obtain them in a pure form essentially the same processes are employed as in preparing proteids. From solutions containing proteid it is not only the enzymes which are precipitated, but ordinary proteid liodies as well, to which the enzymes mlhere tcnaciouslj'. Enzymes are also carried down along with other inert deposits which may be produced in solutions containing enzymes. Tims Eriicke employed precipitation by calcium phosphate for the production of pure pepsin, and precipitates of cholestearin also carry enzymes down with them. For further purifica- tion and separation, one can in the case of some enzymes make use of their peculiarity in not diffusing through membranes. On precijiitation with alcohol, a more or less complete separation of enzymes from the proteids will be obtained by coagulating the latter with the alcohol; after long-continued action of alcohol and on subse- quent treatment of the precipitate with water, the proteids are found to be almost insoluble, whilst the enzymes are still soluble in water. In regard to their action the enzymes may be termed labile proteids, which apart from the cells are able in small quantities to induce chemical changes in other substances, whereby there arise bodies of lesser calorie. Such a change occurs without the enzyme itself form- ing any lasting chemical comljination either with the substance which is being broken up or with tlie products of disintegration. Thus in general there is no using up of the enzyme. Nevertheless a certain deterioration of power occurs in almost every solution con- taining enzymes, a dissociation of the enzyme, which is mainly to be referred to the influence of the temperature or to the products of disin- tegration which accumulate in the solution through the action of the enzyme. The action of enzymes is in the majority of cases that of splitting up highly complex organic compounds into simpler substances, water usually entering the molecule in the process. The so-called urea ferments, which convert urea into ammonium carbonate, furnish a typical example of this j^i'ocess— co<5Ji^2H,o = co<;-«; Such enzymes, therefore, may be said to act by hydration, a process which, as is known, may also be induced by simple chemical or thermic action. Thus fats, the higher carbohydrates, and true albumins, if they be heated with steam under pressure in an autoclave, may be con- verted into simpler compounds by hydration; the fats are Ijroken up into glycerine and free fatty acids; starch is converted into grape sugar, albumins are broken up into allnimoses, pep- tones, and amido-acids. In the case of many substances of this nature mere treatment with boiling water sufiices to effect hydration, and especially if free acid or alkali lie added. For example, the inversion of cane sugar. I.e. the splitting up into dextrose and levulose, is easily effected if the watery solution be boiled after the addition of an acid. That the ferments act by hydration is proved not merely fi-om the products of disintegration, but also from the interesting fact shown by Nasse that on the addition of diastase to a OXH4