PARALYSIS OF 232 FACIAL NERVE, Different Types and their Diagnostic Significance ..... 234 Prognosis . . . . . . 235 Treatment . . . . . . 235 See also Brain, Physiology of {Sixth and Seventh Nerves); Cornea {Ulcerative Inflamma- tion, Causes); Ear, Acute Inflammation of the Middle Ear {Results); Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Sequelae); Electricity {Galvan- ism, Treatment by); Mumps {Nervous Symp- toms) ; New-born Infant {Facial Paralysis); Parotid Gland, Disorders {Tumours); Teeth {Alveolar Abscess, Seqiielw). The facial nerve takes its origin from a nucleus situated in the ventral portion of the tegment at the lower end of the pons. The root fibres at first pass dorsally and loop round the nucleus of the sixth nerve before leaving the pons in close association with the auditory nerve. There is as yet no unanimity of opinion as to whether all the fibres of the nerve are derived fi'om the nucleus whose position has just been indicated ; some of the ascertained facts on this question suggest that the fibres which supply the orbicu- laris palpebrarum and frontalis originate in a nucleus situated in the neighbourhood of that of the third nerve, and that those which inner- vate the orbicularis oris are derived from the hypoglossal nucleus {vide vol. i. p. 470). Loss of power in the facial muscles may result from a lesion of the centre for facial movements in the cerebral cortex, one which interrupts the path of conduction from this region to the nucleus of the facial nerve in the pons, which involves this nucleus itself, or which implicates the fibres of the facial nerve at some part of their course after they have emerged from their nucleus {vide Fig. p. 234). A broad distinction is drawn between the cases in which the facial paralysis is the result of a lesion somewhere on the cerebral side of the nucleus in the pons, and those in which the lesion involves the nucleus or the fibres which spring from it and form the facial nerve. We speak of the former variety of facial paralysis as of cerebral type, and the latter as of peri- pheral type, and, as will subsequently be seen, there are certain well-marked signs which serve to distinguish the one from the othei*. Etiology.—Paralysis of the facial muscles, the result of an affection of the seventh cranial nerve, is in the majority of cases ascribed to exposure to cold, and to this variety the term " rheumatic " facial paralysis has been applied. Sometimes, however, no such exposure can be determined, but in some cases of the kind there is more or less chronic exposure, the patient, for instance, always working in a draughty shop. Otitis media furnishes a small percentage of cases of peripheral facial paralysis, the nerve being involved in the Fallopian canal {vide vol. ii. p. 497). Traumatism supplies a still smaller number of cases, among which are to be numbered those which result during the operation of clearing out the mastoid, those consequent on external blows or wounds impli- cating the nerve in the neck, notably in opera- tions for the removal of tumours in the parotid region, those the result of fracture of the base of the brain, and such as follow forceps delivery in infants. Hiemorrhage into the facial nerve or Fallopian canal has been the cause of the paralysis in a few cases. Syphilis is rarely responsible for affection of the nerve outside the cranial cavity. In a few rare cases facial paralysis has been a symptom in tabes dorsalis, and then it no doubt depends on degeneration of the nerve. Like the other cranial nerves, the facial may suffer in consequence of meningitic conditions at the base of the brain, whether syphilitic or otherwise; it may also be involved in haemor- rhage in this situation, or it may be pressed upon by neoplasms. Apart from such direct pressure the facial, like all the other cranial nerves, appears liable to succumb to some more remote influence when a tumour exists within the cranial cavity, possibly general increase of intracranial pressure, or it may be a neuritis, as yet undetermined, but comparal)le to that which attacks the optic nerves. Then again the root fibres of the facial nerve or the nucleus may be implicated by a gross lesion within the pons, such as a tumour, hEemorrhage, or area of necrotic softening, while a sclerotic patch has been similarly operative in disseminate sclerosis. Primary degenerative atrophy of the cells of the facial nucleus is met with as part of a more wide- spread degeneration in which other cranial nerve nuclei are involved, as for instance the hypoglossal in chronic bulbar paralysis. In the rare cases in which facial paralysis is the outcome of the action of the diphtheritic poison, there may, no doubt, be afTection of the whole peripheral neuron, including the cells of the facial nucleus in some cases, but this has not been proved. In very exceptional instances the facial nucleus has been the seat of anterior poliomyelitis. Finally, facial palsy may be congenital, and a particular form of paralysis of the facial muscles is met with as part of the symptom- complex of the Landouzy-Dejerine type of myopathy. Morbid Anatomy.—We have very little in- formation as to the true state of the nerve in the ordinary cases of facial paralysis such as are supposed to be due to cold. The view that there is an interstitial neuritis with swelling of the sheath of the nerve and compression of the nerve elements is purely hypothetical, and the only positive facts of which we are in possession are distinctly opposed to such a