ECZEMA 36 are fairly entitled, however, to be included among the eczemas, as they manifest all the pathological elements of genuine eczema, namely, exudation into the epithelium with expurgation of the injured tissue and new epithelial growth. So little is cei'tainly known of the bacteriology of these forms, or of the relationship which exists between the inflammatory manifestation and the accompanying seborrhoea, that the present writer prefers to speak of them collectively as mycosiform eczemas. There can be little doubt that the group contains several varieties which both clinically and bacteriologically are as yet ill defined. According to Unna, to whom we are chiefly indebted for what information we possess, they are all examples of seborrhoeic eczema, in which the exudate is remarkably rich in fatty products, derived, in the main, from the sweat glands, the efficient cause of the whole fatty-serous catarrh being the moro- coccus. This conclusion will probably be modi- fied by future research. Clinically all the mycosiform eczemas are distinguished by a low-pressure exudate which usually (apart from complications) does not show on the surface, but filters into the epi- thelium. The vascular paralysis is strictly limited to the area of the injured (Edematous epithelium, and, in consequence, the outlines of the efflorescence are circumscribed, figured, or serpiginous. The commonest and most characteristic lesion is a circular hypersemic disc covered with greasy yellowish scales, which can be easily torn oflP. These scales may ex- hibit little bags of fatty matter on their under surface derived from the follicles. This sebor- rhoeic variety of mycosiform eczema usually descends, as Unna has shown, from the scalp, where it begins as a pityriasis capitis (common dandruff). It may remain in this condition for months or even years. A certain proportion of these cases (the ratio not yet ascertained) pass into the inflammatory condition. The earliest signs are to be found at the junction of the forehead with the scalp, in the form of dry, red scaly patches with a more or less defined margin. Soon signs of eczema appear behind the ears. The post-aural grooves become red- dened and frequently fissured. This condition is usually aggravated by scratching, and it is not rare to meet with an acute weeping eczema involving the ears and temples. Early in the course of the disease we may detect yellowish- red, greasy, circular patches over the sternum. In many cases the inflammation surrounds the neck as a dry red collar, and may attack the bends of the elbows, the genital-groin region, and the bends of the knees. In rare cases the disease may become almost universal. It is surprising how supei-ficial the inflammation is; even long-standing cases may show no signs of dermal induration. This character is so con- stant that it may be said that if a patch of eczema is notably indurated it is probably not a mycosiform eczema. The epidemic eczema, described by Savill, probably belongs to the class of mycosiform eczema. The cases described by this author occurred for the most part in old, bed-ridden people. The type is mainly that of a dry catarrh (low-pressure eczema) assuming various lesional forms, which in the early stages spread in ringed and serpiginous patches, and in their latest and worst development are indistinguish- able from pityriasis rubra. The contagiousness of tbe disease is proved by the large number of patients who were attacked at the same time in the Paddington and Marylebone Infirmaries in London. The disease is said to have been con- veyed to animals. Savill cultivated an organism which was constantly present in the scales and exudate. It was an aerobic diplococcus growing in all soils, and not liquefying gelatine. The description tallies closely with that of Unna's morococcus. Eegional Forms of Eczema i The Scalp.—Type 1. The hair is falling out ; the surface is covered with greasy scales, but is not obviously hyperaemic j red scaly spots appear at the Junction of the fo7-ehead and scalp; the nape may be suffused ivith a pink colour and perhaps scaly. Treatment.—This is a mycosiform variety and intimately associated with seborrhoea. It re- quii'es powerful detergent and stimulating treat- ment. Wash the head for the first week every night with spiritus saponis viridis (Hebra), thoroughly removing the lather with water, and immediately afterwards applying an ointment containing 3j- of coal or wood-tar to the §j. If the tar is objected to, substitute sulphur (5j-) and salicylic acid (gr. x.-xx.). When the eruption has been removed the scalp must still be washed once or twice a week, and a more agreeable ointment (salicylic acid, or resorcine in white vaseline) prescribed. Later a lotion may be ordered containing oleum ricini (3ss.-5j-) and salicylic acid (gr. x.-xv.) to §j. of rectified spirits. Type 2. Similar to type 1, but the temples are acutely inflamed and weeping; the ears are red and, swollen. Treatment.—This variety has the same origin as the preceding one, but is greatly aggravated by the presence of decomposing discharge, and by scratching. No fatty ointment should be applied in this stage, for the obvious reason that the parts are already too relaxed. The de- siderata are drying, astringency, and asepsis. Compresses wet with acetate of aluminium (aluminii sulphatis gr. iii., plumbi acetatis gr. i.-ii., aquae distil, ad gj.), or with silver nitrate ^ Owing to limitations of space it has not been possible to allude to the many excellent and successful forms of treatment suggested by other writers.