146 EPIDEMIOLOGY from measles and whooping - cough. The possibility, therefore, of these long waves being to some extent complementary to other diseases affecting infant life is not to be overlooked. It will be observed from the charts that as the death-rate from whooping-cough in London has fallen, so has that from measles risen. Perhaps the diminishing mortality from scarlet fever from 1870 may also have contributed to increase the fatality of measles during the same period. But after a careful examination of the deaths from infantile diseases in New York, we fail to find a decrease in any of them to which the enormous increase of measles from 1880 on- wai-ds can be ascribed. As one cannot die of two diseases, the suppression or decline in one cause of death will leave a greater number of possible victims for another. But this being admitted, it really explains nothing, for if the increase of measles be the result of the dimi- nished ravages of scarlet fever and whooping- cough, to what, we ask, is the decreasing fatality of these diseases due 1 Some have sought for an explanation of such phenomena in atmospheric constitutions favour- ing the prevalence of this or that disease or group of diseases. It is here that a few words may be said about the doctrine of constitutions, which occupies such an important place in the history of epidemiology. The constitution or katastasis of Hippocrates was an annual one, determined by sensible states of the weather—heat, cold, dryness, humidity, the direction and force of the winds, and so forth. Diseases, according to him, were not caused by the weather prevailing just at the time when they appeared, but by this in re- lation to the weather in the seasons preceding. As Bacon puts it, an epidemic constitution " results from a precedent sequence and series of the seasons of the year." This doctrine was founded not on conjecture but on observation, and will remain true, for a certain class of diseases and within certain limits, for all time. It largely explains the varying prevalence of the diseases with which Hippocrates was acquainted in different years and seasons. Sydenham's constitution differed from that of Hippocrates. It was not an annual one, but of uncertain duration, and it was not caused by sensible but by occult qualities of the atmos- phere, and finally it was conceived in order to explain phenomena which, to a large extent, were outside the observation of Hippocrates— such as plague, spotted fevers, and small-pox. Epidemic diseases, to use Sydenham's own words, " are engendered through occult and in- explicable changes in the atmosphere, and con- tinue their devastation dui'ing the persistence of the mysterious skiey influences in question." There is nothing in nature corresponding to this conception. It is clear that neither the constitution of Hippocrates nor that of Sydenham throws any light on these multiannual fluctuations with which we are dealing. Another doctrine is that of Haeser, who asserts, on historical grounds, the existence of two, to some extent mutually exclusive, constitutions, which he calls respec- tively a typhous constitution, during which typhus and typhoid fevers, plague, and malarial fevers predominate ; the other an exanthematous constitution characterised by a general and excessive prevalence of scarlet fevei-, small-pox, measles, dysentery, diphtheria, and puerperal fever, all of which, he thinks, are related maladies. These constitutions are supposed to alternate at varying periods, extending over, it may be, twenty or thirty years, and deter- mining the type of disease over continents. He supposes that these constitutions are the result of meteorological and cosmic influences affecting alike the vegetable and animal kingdoms. The historic evidence in support of these views does not appear conclusive. The facts that have just come under our notice indicate that the periods of prevalence of the individual members of the exanthematic group do not always corre- spond. Their ebbs and swells do not coincide as they should do if Haeser's doctrine were true. If these movements are caused by atmospheric and cosmic influences, we should have to postulate a separate constitution for each member of the exanthematous group. It must be admitted that these nutations are amongst the most inscrutable of epidemic phenomena. III. Short-period Waves.—It will be seen from an examination of Chart II. that epidemic waves of measles follow one another with con- siderable regularity every other year in London and New York. The same holds true of most large cities. This biennial wave is scarcely less marked in England and Wales as a whole, although the years in which the wave occurs in the country do not always coincide with those in which it appears in the capital. In sparsely populated localities these waves occur at longer and quite irregular intervals. In the seven- teenth and eighteenth centuries the intervals between the successive waves of measles in London were less regular than at the present day, but the tendency to biennial explosions was even then quite apparent. Chart I. shows that there was generally an epidemic outburst of small-pox every other year in London in the eighteenth century. The interval between the waves is four years in Sweden (see Chart I.), instead of one year as in London. The intervals between the successive ex- plosions of whooping-cough in London are longer and more variable. Two years, more or less, intervene between the waves. The height of the wave in all these diseases is often seen to bear an inverse relation to the swell. This is easily understood, for the more constantly and