498 GOUT in the blood as such, and that it is finally voided in the urine in that form. He wrote as follows : —In perfect health the elimination of the quadriurate proceeds with sufficient speed and completeness to prevent any undue retention or any accumulation of it in the blood. But in the gouty state this tranquil process is intei'- rupted, either from defective action of the kidneys, or from excessive introduction of urates into the circulation, and the quadriurate, circulating in a medium which is rich in sodium carbonate, gradually takes up an additional atom of base, and is thereby ti'ansformed with biurate. The biui-ate thus produced exists at first in the hydrated or gelatinous modification, but with the lapse of time and inci'easing accumulation it passes on into the almost anhydrous or crystalline modification, and the precipitation of it becomes imminent or actually takes place (Roberts). He then made a series of investigations into the conditions which in an artificial parallel accelerate or retard the gradual transformation into the crystalline biurate, and concluded that sodium salts immediately hastened it. As a practical outcome of these observations he strongly deprecated the use of sodium salts, either in the form of medicines or as sodium chloride in the diet, and more recently Luft' has recommended the use of salts of potassium in preference to sodium on somewhat similar gi'ounds. Clinical evidence generally hardly supports this view. By way of illustration consider the very large quantities of sodium chloride taken by patients at Weisbaden, where the main springs are notoriously rich in common salt. And there is no doubt that in the usual run of cases equally good results are obtained by treatment with these waters as with others in which sodium chloride or other salts of soda are only present in very sparing amount. Not- withstanding Roberts' elaboi'ate researches we must regard the view of the existence of a quadriurate, more especially in the blood, as a pure hypothesis and not as a proven fact, and it is probably unwise to lay any stress on experi- mental obsei'vations on the " maturation" of the uric acid compounds outside the body as furnishing a basis for any deduction in the way of therapeutics. Ord in 1872 advanced the view that inflam- matory or degenerative changes in the affected tissues are to be regarded as the primary cause of gout, such initial changes not being caused by urates. He believed that gout was the sequel of a special form of degeneration in some of the fibroid tissues, resulting in an excessive formation of urate of soda, which passes into the circulation, and is later deposited in areas least freely supplied with vessels and lym- phatics. Sir Dyce Duckworth is the leading exponent of the view which regards gout as intimately connected with a disordered state of the central nervous system. He believes that, as a result of a disorder of some part of the neurotrophic system, a derangement of metabolism is induced which leads to undue formation of uric acid, and also inhibits the normal breaking down of that substance in the tissues, these things being accompanied in the case of acute gout by temporary weakness in the excretory capacity of the kidneys. Kolisch in 1895 suggested that some ante- cedents of xiric acid are the cause of the toxic effects which he believes constitute the primary cause of gout. This theory was mainly based on the pi'esence of an increase in the alloxur substances (xanthin, etc.) in the urine of the gouty, but in view of the results of numerous investigations recorded in the last few years showing no such increase, this idea is no longer maintained. A study of these various views shows how little we really know of the etiology of the disease. Garrod's great discovery was unfortu- nately followed by the result that all attention has been focussed on uric acid as the all- important factor, while in reality there is every reason to believe that it is by no means the main etiological factor, but only one of the incidents in the development of the disease. The writer has lately described the appear- ance in the blood in gout of certain peculiar forms of leucocyte, which were considerably increased in number during the paroxysm. Whatever the nature of these cells may be, their occurrence lends force to the view that we must take a broader and much more general view of the disease than heretofore, and not restrict our investigation to any single line of inquiry. With our present knowledge it is futile to theorise as to the etiology of the disease. All we can do, or at any rate all we ought to do, is to indicate clearly the known facts as to the state of the urine, blood, and tissues in the disease, and wait for the further advances in our knowledge of physiology that are absolutely essential for the elucidation of the problems presented by the tissues in gout {see " Uric Acid "). Before passing to a consideration of these .s^aecial points, reference must be made to certain general facts of some importance in the etiology of the disease. Sex and Age, etc.—The disease in its most characteristic forms is more common among men than women, but its various irregular and minor manifestations, especially those seen in hereditary cases, are at least as common in the female sex. When there is a strong hereditary history, typical joint attacks may occur in young- men in their teens and onwards, but as a rule such attacks are more frequently seen at and about the fourth decade. In hereditary cases