362 FRACTURES are rendered non-adhesive by guarding each strip with a second piece of strapping of the same width, so that the two adhesive surfaces are together. The two pieces of strapping run- ning up the leg are kept in place by winding a second piece of plaster spirally round the leg. A cord is then passed through the centre of the wooden stirrup, which should lie quite squai'e about three inches from the sole of the foot. A long external splint is now chosen, of such a length that one end lies comfortably in the axilla without exerting any pressure upon the armpit when the ai-m is by the side, whilst the external malleolus is opposite the centre of the hole in the splint which is made to receive it. The splint should have no foot-piece, but a flat cross-piece is screwed horizontally to the lower end to keep the splint steady. The whole splint must be well padded with tow, and it is then laid along the injured side of the patient, who is placed flat on the bed without any pillow under his head. Two assistants make steady extension upon the limb until the deformity at the seat of fracture disappears, the one taking hold of the thigh just above the knee and rotat- ing it inwards, whilst the second assistant grasps the foot and ankle, which must also be rotated inwards to the same extent as the thigh. The surgeon secures the splint by applying a bandage round the foot and ankle in such a manner as to keep the foot at right angles to the leg, the bandage being afterwards carried up the leg as high as the tubercle of the tibia. A second band- age is then applied to the thigh above the seat of fracture, and a broad flannel bandage is carried round the chest and over the splint. The knee and the thigh in the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture are not bandaged, and it is best to apply the bandage to the foot and leg from without inwards to counteract the tendency to eversion. When a single outside splint fails to support the fracture it may be reinforced by a straight and well-padded wooden splint put at the back of the limb and reaching from the gluteal fold to the top of the calf. In other cases a piece of Gooch's '• kettle-holder " splint maybe cut to encircle the front and inner side of the thigh from the groin to the top of the patella. A small pulley is then fixed to the end of the bed, either by screwing it into a piece of wood fastened to the bed-foot, or by means of a standard with a movable arm standing just beyond it. The cord attached to the stirrup runs over the pulley and, for an adult, carries a weight of ten pounds. The foot of the bed is then raised about four inches by means of two blocks of wood, that the patient's body may act as a coimterpoise to the traction of the weight. The injured limb is wrapped in a small blanket, a cradle is put over it, and the rest of the bed is made as usual. Attention must be paid during the after-treatment to the comfort of the patient, especially to any indication of chafing at the heel, the malleoli, or over the sacrum, and the surgeon should bear in mind that the effects of chronic alcoholism show themselves more readily after a fracture of the thigh than after any other fracture. The first effect of the weight is to overcome the muscular spasm, but as this lasts from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, sufficient time should be allowed to elapse before the lighter weight is replaced by a heavier one. In muscular subjects a much heavier weight will be required to secure a proper extension, whilst in children the extending force is generally calcu- lated as two pounds for a child of two years old, increasing a pound for each additional year. The weight and pulley need constant attention, as the cord often jams and renders the extension useless. In children, whei'e the fracture is much less oblique than in adults, a plaster of Paris case applied to the front and back of the limb and an extension apparatus answer admirably, the Liston's splint being applied to the uninjured side for the purpose of making the child lie flat in the bed. Children who have incontinence of vu-ine, very young children, and those who have both thighs broken, can often be treated satis- factorily without any splint, by keeping them flat upon their backs, and rigging up an exten- sion apparatus consisting of a weight and pulley so situated above the bed that the thighs are flexed at a right angle with the body. Restless children who cannot be induced to lie straight and flat by any other means are best secured in a Bryant's or double Thomas's splint. The duration of treatment varies with the age, weight, and general condition of the patient. Three weeks in bed is sufficient for a baby who cannot walk; for a child, a month with a further foz'tnight in a plaster of Paris case; but as age increases and the patient is heavier, a longer time is required, so that an adult will be four or five months before he can walk with ease. The wasting and the stiffness of the knee are the most troublesome factors in the convalescence, and these are combated satisfactorily by the employment of massage from the twentieth day onwards, or at a later period by the use of a hot- air apparatus. The splint may be permanently removed at the end of five or six weeks, but tlie patient shoiild then be kept in bed until at the beginning of the seventh week he is allowed to get up with a plaster case upon his thigh. He must then learn to walk upon crutches, for too early walking upon a fractiired femur causes bending of the bone, or it may again be broken. The symptoms and treatment of inter-condy- loid fractures of the femur, and of fracture of the inner and outer condyles are considered under the heading "Knee, Diseases and Injuries of." Fractures of the Leg.—Fractures of the upper end of the tibia necessarily involve the knee-joint, and are described under the article " Knee-Joint." Fractures of both Bones of the Leg.—