308 FCENICULI FEUCTUS FoeniCUli FrUCtuS. See Fennel Fruit. Foeticide. — The emptying of the preg- nant uterus at a date anterior to viabihty, whicli necessarily involves death of the fcetus ; this, of course, may be brought about as a criminal act or to save the mother's life (therapeutic foeticide). Foetus and Ovum, Develop- ment of. The Graafian Follicle and Ovum . . 308 Primary Follicles .... 308 Ripe Follicles ..... 308 Ripening of Ovum .... 309 Fertilisation of Ovum . . . 309 Migration of Fertilised Ovum . . 310 Segmentation . . . . .310 Amnion and Chorion, Development of . 311 Decidua, Development op . . .313 Placenta, Development of . . .314 Foetal Elements . . . .314 Maternal Elements . . . .315 Placenta at Term . . . . .317 Degeneration in Foetal Elements . 317 Degeneration in Maternal Elements . 319 Fcetus in Utero . . . . .319 1. Physiology . . . . .319 Nutrition . . . . .319 Excretion — Liver, Kidneys, Skin Glands, Meconium . . .320 2. Amnion and Liquor Amnii . .321 3. Umbilical Cord .... 322 4. Period of Development . . . 323 5. Circulation in Utero . . . 324 Changes at Birth .... 326 6. Disposition in Uterus . . . 326 See also Abortion (Causes, etc.); Achondro- plasia ; Antenatal Pathology ; Ectopic Gesta- tion (Foetus); Embryology ; Heart, Congenital Malformations of; Labour, Physiology of (Passenger, Foetus); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Foetus); Labour, Faults in the Passenger (Foetal Malformations, etc.); Labour, Operations (Forceps, etc.); Medicine, Forensic (Abortion, Infanticide, etc.); Maternal Impres- sions (Foetal Deformities); Ovaries, Diseases of (Dermoid Cysts, Foetal Inclusions); Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Foetal Signs and Symptoms); Preg- nancy, Multiple ; Pregnancy, Pathology (Affections of Ovum and Decidua); Pregnancy, Pathology (Intra-uterine Diseases and Death of Foetus); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage in (Foetal Mortality) ; Rickets (Foetal) ; Sclerema Neona- torum (Foetus Rigidus); Syphilis (Hereditary); Teratology. The Graafian Follicle.—Graafian follicles are the essential elements of the ovary, since they contain the ova. Enormous numbers of these follicles exist in the ovaries of new-born female children, a fact known to the anatomist Sappey, who estimated that two women would suffice to populate a city as large as Paris if all their ova were fruitful. At puberty they are much less numerous, as age advances their number dimin- ishes, and from the ovaries of aged persons they are entirely absent. Three different kinds of follicles, which, however, merely represent stages of development, are described: viz. primary follicles, growing follicles, and ripened follicles. The ovaries, at birth, contain as a rule only primary follicles. These are invisible to the naked eye, and consist of a single large round cell, the ovum, closely invested with a delicate layer of flattened cells, the follicular epithelium ; the ovum consists of a mass of pi'otoplasm, with a single or rarely a double nucleus, and no cell envelope. Grooving follicles are numerous at puberty. Remarkable changes occur at this period in the follicular cells, while the ovum itself undergoes little alteration. The follicular cells proliferate freely by fission, become cubical in shape, and arranged in several layers around the ovum, thus forming the stratum granulosum. Outside this a well-defined connective tissue capsule is formed from the ovarian stroma, which consists of two layers — the outer or tunica externa, and the inner or theca. The theca is richly supplied with blood-vessels, and consists of looser connective tissue than the tunica externa. Large numbers of the cells of the inner layers of the stratum granulosum now undergo liquefaction and break down, thus pro- ducing a quantity of fluid. Transudation of fluid probably also occurs from the vessels of the theca, and from these two sources the liquor folliculi is formed. The cells which immedi- ately surround the ovum do not liquefy, but remain, forming the cumidus or discus proligerus, which is situated opposite the point where the follicle afterwards ruptures. At the same time a clear, delicately-striated membrane is formed around the ovum as a cell-envelope ; this is the zmmpellucida or z. striata, and it is now generally regarded as arising from the follicular cells. Between the zona pellucida and the cell body a microscopic interval, however, remains, called the perivitelline space. Before the formation of its cell-envelope the ovum increases considerably in size, and the greater part of its protoplasm becomes coarsely granular, while the nucleus becomes excentric in position; afterwards no further increase in size occurs. It will thus be seen that a fully-formed Graafian follicle consists of the following parts, passing from without in- wards:—(1) Tunica externa; (2) Theca; (3) Membrana granulosa; (4) Liquor folliculi; (5) Cumulus proligerus; (6) Ovum. Ripje Follicles.—In the process of ripening the follicle undergoes further increase in size, bulges upon the surface of the ovary, and finally ruptures at some point upon its exposed surface. Ripe follicles are sometimes met with before puberty, but are most numerous during the menstrual period of life; there is no evidence.