225 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF to liave diplopia if the other ocular muscles supplied by the third nerve were also paralysed. la complete double ptosis Mule's operation may be performed on one eye to enable the patient to see better to move about. Defects in Position and Connection of THE Lid Trichiasis.—Trichiasis, or the growth baek- wai'ds of one or all of the lashes until they come in contact with the eye, is due to some cicatricial distortion of the tarsus caused by granular ophthalmia, sycosis tarsi, burns or injuries, etc. As a consequence the globe is perpetually irri- tated, and the patient always has a feeling of having a foreign body in the eye. Until the primary cause has been cured the ingrowing lashes should be pulled out with a pair of forceps as often as they ajopear. When only a few lashes are misplaced, and the lid margin is normally situated, a permanent cure can be effected by destroying the roots of the faulty lashes with electrolysis. AVhen a part or the whole of the edge of the lid is wrongly directed, then some operation should be performed to restore the lid margin with the lashes to a normal position. In people under twenty-five years of age a liurow's operation is generally successful, but in all other cases a Jaesche-Arlt operation should he performed. liuroii/s operation consists, when the patient is anajsthetised, in reverting the lid over a bi'oad ivory spatula, and cutting with a Beer's knife through the whole thickness of the tarsus down to the orbicularis along a line parallel to and at a distance of 3 mm. from the edge of the lid. The broad furrow thus formed between the two portions of the tarsus is filled up with a mass of connective tissue which allows the narrow strip bearing the lashes to resume its normal direc- tion. In older people this exudation into the sulcus is generally insufficient, and the eversion of the lashes fails to take place. In such cases the follow'ing slightly modified Jaesche-Arlt operation is indicated :— The patient is aiuesthetised, and the lid is clamped between the blades of Desmarre's for- ceps, cai'e being exercised to evert the lid margin as much as possible to facilitate the next step. This consists in making an incision with a Beer's knife from one extremity to the other of the tarsus, along the line on its free border, which separates the orifices of the Meibomian glands from the lashes, thais dividing the tarsus for two-thirds or more of its depth into two lamina;. The raw surface of the posterior flap is dried and carefully inspected for the roots of any lashes which may have been cut through ; they appear as small black bulbous points which are dissected out. A strip of skin and muscle about 3 mm. wide is excised by two parallel incisions which extend from end to end of the lid and vol. Ill meet together at their extremities. The removal of this strip of skin and muscle along a line about I'5 mm. above the lashes should expose a corresponding portion of the tarsus. The margins of the skin wound are united by three sutures, the forceps are removed, and the lids are covered with a dressing. In a few days the wound is healed, and the lashes are found to be in a normal position. Even when only a portion of the lashes is inverted it is better to treat the whole lid in this manner. DisTiCHiASis. — This congenital abnormality consists in the growth of a second row of fine delicate hairs from the posterior margin of the free edge of the lid behind the normal row of lashes. If the abnormal lashes are left alone, and are not pulled out and made coarse, they give rise to no inconvenience. Entropion. — Entropion exists when the margin of the lid with the lashes is inverted until the skin comes in contact with the globe. It is due either to a contraction of the orbicularis muscle, spastic entropion, or to scars in the conjunctiva or tarsus, cicatricial entropion. >Spastic entrojnon is seen only in old people with a lax and superabundant amount of skin, which allows the lid margin to turn in when it is not well supported, because the globe is shrunken or absent, or because of blepharospasm. This form of entropion is limited practically to the lower lid. Cicatricial entropion varies only in degree from trichiasis; it is due to similar causes, and is treated in the same way. The treatment of spastic entropion consists in removing any cause which may have produced it, such as the prolonged wearing of a cataract bandage, which should be exchanged for dai'k glasses or a shade. If no cause can be found the lid should be kept everted with strapping, and if, after a good trial, this fails, then Galliard sutures should be inserted, or even a piece of the redundant skin and muscles may be excised. Galliard's suture is applied in the following manner: A large curved needle threaded with No. 2 plaited silk suture is entered in the middle of the lower lid immediately below the lashes, and is passed beneath the orbicularis muscle and made to emerge through the skin on a level with the orbital margin. The ends of the suture are then tied together as tightly as possible over the fold of skin. In bad cases two similar sutures may be applied on either side of the central one, midway between it and the ends of the lid. They are not removed until they have cut their way almost out through the skin. If this fails a strip of skin and orbicularis muscle is excised with scissors, and the wound is closed with sutures. The width of the strip is ascertained in each case by picking up with the T-shaped forceps a fold of skin in contact with the lid margin ; it should be just of sufficient breadth to restore the lid to its 15