FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE 336 method -g-oVo cc. of iymph will cause the disease, hut ^qIqq CO. fails to cause infection. Infection usually occurs after the introduction of slaver from affected animals into the mouths of healthy ones, but with greater certainty if the mucous membrane be previously scarified. The subse- quent disease after such an inoculation is as a rule milder than after natural infection. Infec- tion can take place through the stomach, but it is doubtful whether it occurs after subcutaneous inoculation of lymphw Immunity may or may not be acquired after natural infection. Thus, an animal after recover- ing from an attack may be immune for months or even years, or, on the other hand, an animal may suffer repeatedly from the disease. In other cases, again, immunity has been acquired in utero. The Commission ah'eady referred to investigated a number of important facts in regard to the production of artificial immunity. It was found that no immunity was conferred by intravenous inoculation with fresh lymph in doses so small that the disease was not produced, or by subcutaneous inoculation with lymph if the disease were not thereby caused. Nor was immunity acquired with certainty after the use of lymph rendered inactive by heat, nor after inoculation with the blood of animals which had recovered from the disease, and which had themselves been found to be immune. This latter statement confirms the results previously obtained by Schiitz and David and Zernecke. Siegel, however, stated that he had obtained a protective serum from animals which presented the specific vesicular eruption, and healthy animals inoculated with this serum were said to resist without any special reaction subsequent inoculation with infective lymph. Hecker also lays claim to having obtained a protective serum from the blood of immunised cattle. The German Commission further found that immunity may be produced by the cutaneous injection of a mixture of foot and mouth disease lymph and vaccine lymph. Calves and pigs are said to acquire immunity by the intravenous injection of a mixture of foot and mouth disease lymph and " immune blood," and the injection of these two substances separately has a similar if less powerful immunising action. In the case of adult [animals, one is advised to leave the lymph and the serum in contact with one another for some time before injecting the mixture. Diluted lymph, which has become non-virulent by being repeatedly passed through a Kitasato filter, is likewise said to protect animals without causing the disease. It is, however, somewhat doubtful whether these statements concerning artificial immunity are really reliable, and at present we are unable to say that there is any method whereby true artificial immunity may be produced. Inocula- tions are doubtless to some extent protective, but any method aiming at the production of a high standard of immunity tends to cause the disease itself. This fact is well exemplified by the results following inoculation with the " Seraphthin " of Loefiler and Frosch. Seraphthin has neither afforded protection nor rendered milder any subsequent attack, and in some instances it has even appeared to cause an out- break of the disease against which it was supposed to be protective. Animals attacked. — Though the domestic ruminants (ox, sheep, goat) are most commonly attacked, the pig is very susceptible, and the horse, dog, cat, and fowls are not exempt. It has also been observed in the camel, llama, giraffe, deer, antelope, buffalo, bison, etc. The disease may be transmitted to man, either by inoculation or by the consumption of milk from diseased cows, or by butter and cheese made from contaminated milk. Cream especially is virulent. Sy7nptoms.—The symptoms will be described under the two heads of constitutional and local. Constitutional Symptoms.—The incubative period of the disease varies betweeii twenty-four hoiirs and seven days. Three or four days is common. During invasion the animals show an elevation of temperature, but this need not necessarily be high; in many outbreaks a rise of 2° F. alone has been noticed. The animal isolates itself, stands with the back arched, and has rigors. Saliva may escape from the mouth, and the patient may move stiffly. There may or not be slight abdominal pain, and the same may be said of cough. The respirations are not increased in number usually, though in some cases in the later stages the respiratory move- ments may be much increased in frequency. The pulse-rate is slightly quickened. If the animal is milking or nursing, the amount of milk furnished by the gland falls off and the quality of the milk is changed: it is of a yellowish white colour and not unlike colostrum in appearance. Local Symptoms.—The local symptoms in the bovine affect the mouth and the feet. Lesions, however, may be observed upon the skin, mam- mary gland, vulva, or prepuce of the male. In the sheep, mouth lesions are not common, and in the pig the lesions also are generally confined to the feet, though the snout may also show the eruption. In the Bovine Mouth.—Prior to the appearance of the vesicles the mucous membrane of the gums and of the lips may appear to be injected, and the amount of saliva present is greater than usual. On the third or fourth day a crop of vesicles put in appearance. These are at first small—no larger than the head of a pin; but they rapidly increase in size by continuing to develop, or by several uniting. The vesicles are found upon the gums, mucous surfaces of the lips, tongue, dorsum, and sides. The vesicles of the dorsum are larger than those upon the sides