314 FCETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF second week involves the whole superficies of the ovum, thus corresponding to the diffused placenta of the sow, the mare, the cetacea, etc. In Leopold's first case traces of vascularisation were found in some, but not all of the villi, and it is tlierefore probable that the foetal circula- tion is at this stage incomplete, and transference of niitriment by osmosis from the maternal to the foetal blood current cannot occur; but doubtless the villi are able to absorb directly from the effused maternal blood without the aid of an active circulation. By this means time is gained for the development of the highly specialised discoidal placenta, which is well out- lined by about the sixth week. Development of the Placenta.—We do not know the precise period at which villi make their appearance on the human chorion, or the precise period at which these structures first come into relation with the maternal tissues. There is reason to believe that they first appear on the pole of attachment of the ovum, and here the union of foetal and maternal structures may follow very quickly upon implantation. When formed they are probably at once vascula- rised through the allantoic vessels. By the end of the second week they are well-formed branch- ing structures, which cover the entire chorion. The part of the chorion which forms the placenta corresponds to the pole of attachment of the ovum, and is often called the chorion frondosum; the extra-placental portion is called the chorion Iceve. The latter is so-called because it was once thought to be non-villous; later on, it is true, it becomes converted into a smooth mem- brane by the disappearance of its villi, but at first the villi are fairly equally distributed over the whole chorion. The formation of placenta simply consists in the specialisation of a part of the chorion to do the work which in the earlier stages is done by the whole. On the chorion frondosum the villi increase greatly in size, in number, and in the complexity of their branch- ings, while the extra-placental villi gradually disappear; at the same time important changes occur in the underlying serotina. The placenta, therefore, consists of foetal and maternal elements which must be considered separ- ately. The Foetal Elements of the Placenta.—By the end of the second month the chorion frondosum consists of a membrane under- lying the amnion with a dense forest of tree- like structures grow- ing from its outer surface. These are the chorionic villi (Fig. 7). It is prob- able that from their first appearance the villi are branched; in the placenta they are much divided, their ramifications being quite irregular in size, shape, and direction. Consequent upon the latter point consider- able interlacement of neighbouring villi may be found . The final divisions (terminal villi) are more or less club-shaped structures with a slightly constricted base of attachment. The villi occupy the chorio-decidual space, but there are wide intervals between them, forming the- system of intervillous spaces through which the maternal blood flows. Many of the villi are attached to the serotina by their tips, some penetrate it for a considerable distance, but the bulk of them are free. All portions of the placental chorion consist of the following structures: (1) an epithelial covering; (2) a. connective tissue stroma ; (3) a system of blood- vessels. (1) The chorionic epithelium clothes the outer (uterine) surface of the chorionic membrane and villi. It consists of two distinct layers : an outer layer of multinucleated protoplasm, or Plasmodium, in which no cell outlines can be distinguished, and which is not therefore truly Fig. b.—Di,'., Decidua vera : M, musculans ; Comp., compact layer : Amp., ampullary layer : Dc, decidua reflexa; a, amnion ; b, chorionic sac; c, chorionic villi; </, decidua serotina; e, mouth of maternal vessel; h, attached villi; /, embedded villi. (Playfair.)