GASTRO-TNTESTINAL DIS0RDP:RS OF INFANCY 411 infant; and whei'c the illness is due, as com- monly happens, to some irritating food-substance in the intestine, the evacuation of the irritant usually brings the attack to an end. Too often, however, these mild symptoms do not pass oft' as soon as one expects, the diarrha^a continues day after day, and what began as a simple diar- rhoea becomes the more serious condition which is called inflammatory diarrhoea. Inflajlmatory DiARRiicEA {Febrile DinrrhiM, Gastroenteritis^ Ileocolitis). — Such a heading necessarily includes several conditions which are more or less distinct pathologically, but as these cannot with any accuracy l)e distinguished clinically, it seems more useful to describe them together'. Many cases of " sunuiier diarrhoea " are of this variety. Often the condition begins like a simple diarrhoea, but instead of subsiding in a few days the diarrhoea continues; the stools are liquid, greenish, or dark brown and oft'ensive, and often show some mucus and streaks of blood. The bowels are open many times a day, and the buttocks and perin;eum are soon red and raw with the irritation of the fteces. It is remarkable how quickly nutrition suflfers in these cases; after even one day of diarrhoea, if it be at all severe, the muscles feel less firm, and the face looks less full, and in two or three days there is distinct loss of flesh, the child is pale and hollow-eyed, and the fontanelle depressed. The tongue is often quite clean, in fact almost abnormally clean and red, or slightly furred with very red papilhe projecting through the wliite fur. The temperature may be raised at the begin- ning of the illness, but afterwai'ds in the less severe cases it is normal; if the diarrhoea be prolonged, and especially if there be much vomiting, it may be subnormal. After two or three weeks of such symptoms the diarrhoea may gradually cease, and the i-iiild slowly mend ; but at any time in such an attack, and sometimes, indeed, from the begin- ning, more severe symptoms may occur. The temperature rises and tiiere is irregular pyrexia ; the infant looks acutely ill, it is drowsy and apathetic, the checks are flushed, the tongue is furred. The abdomen is often full, and some- times distinctly tender on palpation, especially along the course of the colon. The stools are very frequent, perhaps ten or twelve a day, and mucus stained a redclish brown or streaked with bright red blood is commonly present, pointing to aftection especially of the colon. Vomiting is frequently associated with the diarrha-a, even where the lower part of the intestine seems to be chiefly affected. Dr. Eustace Smith attaches considerable im- portance to loss of elasticity in the skin in these cases as evidence of deficient renal excretion, and undoubtedly the urine is diminished, as might 1)0 expected wliere food is so rapidly hurried through the intestine and so little ab- sorption takes place. It is, however, equally certain that any actual nephritis is an exceed- ingly rare complication, in spite of the fact that a small amount of albumin in the urine is vcr}' common in all forms of diarrha>a in infancy. Qidema not infrequently occurs, especially in the extremities, after the diarrhea has lasted a week 01' more ; this again must not be taken as necessarily indicating any renal complication; in some cases where it is marked the urine is perfectly normal, and even if albumin be present it is usually very slight; it seems prob- able that the oedema is rather due to a flagging circulation, combined with some hydreemic con- dition of the blood, and jjossibly with some degenerative change in the vessels. Eventually exhaustion becomes extreme ; the infant lies quite apathetic, almost in a stupoi', with sunken eyes and depressed fontanelle ] the eyelids ai'e only half-closed in sleep, and a film of muco-pus collects on the cornea, which may become dry and ulcerated. The extremities are cold, the pulse is feeble and very rapid. The temperature, as the infant lies in this state of collapse, may be subnormal, but often when taken in the rectum it is found to be high; there may even be hyperpyrexia in spite of the coldness of surface. Death results usually from exhaustion, but in some cases is preceded by convulsions, or by symptoms like those of meningitis. These cases, however, are by no means always fatal; the diarrha'a may gradually cease and pyrexia disapjoear, and the infant may gradually regain its former nutrition. Too often, how- ever, recovery is less complete; sometimes, although the acute diarrhoea has ceased, the bowels continue to Ije open three or four times a day, or are irregular, constipation alternating with looseness ; the faeces show undigested curd, and are perhaps greenish and offensive with some mucus; the child gradually becomes puny and wizen-faced, and after weeks or months of slow emaciation dies of exhaustion. Sometimes, although the bowels become regular, the infant steadily wastes, and no manner of feeding seems to influence the wasting which eventually pi'oves fatal. In other cases, after the acute diarrhani has been checked, the child seems to have made a good recovery, but for months, and sometimes even for years afterwards, the slightest fault in diet causes some diarrhea, or the appearance of mucus in the stools with more or less disturb- ance of general health. Choleraic Diarrhoea (Cholera Iiifnnfinii, Sejjfic Diarrluea).—This form of diarrhoea is more especially limited to the summer season than are the preceding forms. The name is usually given to any case of summer diarrha?a in which the stools arc watery, and the illness runs a very acute course, lasting only a few- days or even a few hoiirs. It has been sug-