186 EEYTHEOPSIA Erythropsia..—A disorder of Adsion, in which everything seems to be of a red colour. Erythroxylon Coca. — S^e Coca; COCAINB. " Esau."—A popular name given to hairy individuals; a case of hypertrichosis congenita, polytrichia, hirsuties, or dasytes. Esbach'S Method.—The quantitative estimation of the albuniin in urine by means of citric and picric acid. See Urine, Pathoi-ogical Changes in {Albuminuria, Tests). Eschar.—A slough, produced, for in- stance, by a caustic (also called an Escharotic), or as a trophic change in some diseases {e.g. hemiplegia). Well-known escharotics are silver nitrate, strong nitric acid, arsenious acid, and caustic potash. Eserine.—The alkaloid of Physostigmatis Semina or Calabar Beans. See Physostigmatis Semina ; Alkaloids {Vegetable); Cornea {Ul- cerative Keratitis, Treatment, Eserine); Glau- coma {Treatment, Myotics); Pharmacology ; Toxicology {Alkaloids, Physostigmine). Esmarch Bandagfe. See Aneurysm {^Treatment, Compression); Bandages, Varieties {Triangular); Hemorrhage {Local Treatment, Elastic Constriction). EsodiC.—Afferent {e.g. nerves). Esophoria.—The condition in which one eye tends to deviate inwards towards the other, as contrasted with exophoria, in which the deviation is outwards. See Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Abnormal Position); Strabis- mus {Strabismus Convergens, Esophoria). Esoteric.—The name given to conditions or bodies developing within the organism, in contrast with Exoteric. Essences. — Essences or Essentise are strong solutions of volatile oils in rectified spirit; they may be given (on loaf sugar) as carminatives ; the essentia anisi and the essentia menthce piperitce are not in the Pharmacopoeia of 1898. See Prescribing. Essential Oils. —Volatile or essential oils are usually mixtures of liquid hydrocarbons (elcEoptens) with solid hydrocarbons (stearoptens) and sometimes with resins. Many essential oils are used medicinally, generally as solutions in alcohol; among these may be named oil of anise, of dill, of peppermint, of chamomile, of bitter orange, of lemon, of cardamoms, of cajuput, etc. See Prescribing ; also under the various drugs {e.g. Anethi Fructus, Anisi Fructus, etc.). Esters. — Esters, compound ethers, or ethereal salts, are salts of alcoholic radicles- (the ethers being oxides of alcoholic radicles); they are formed from the paraffins, the hydro- gen being displaced by compound acid radicles ; examples are found in ethyl nitrite (CgHgNOg)^ ethyl sulphate ((C2H5)2SO^), and ethyl acetate (CgHjCgHgOg). Esthiomene. — Tuberculosis of the vulva or lupus vulvte; as originally defined by Huguier it probably included other diseases.. See Vulva, Diseases of {Cutaneous, Tuber- culosis). Estlander's Operation.—Thoraco- plasty. See Pleura, Affections op, Surgical (Thorax-Resection). " Estoral." — A boric - menthol ester {Zimmer and Co.), recommended in various, forms of rhinitis. Ethane.—A paraffin, CgHg, regarded as derived from two methane molecules (CgHg) by taking away a hydrogen atom from each; dimethyl ; ethyl hydride. See Physiology, Organic Chemistry. Ether. See Anesthesia and Anesthetics {Etlier) ; Morphinomania and other allied- Drug Habits {Ether Drinking); Temperature {Alterations, Depyression, Etiology). Ethics, Medical.—The science and practice of the maintenance of correct relation- ships between medical practitioners in con- nection with their patients; medical etiquette. It is founded on two great laws—the first is to- do to your brother practitioner as you would have him to do to you ; the second is to secure the safe, certain, and, if possible, speedy recovery of the patient. The former is a perfectly definite indication, although, unless a man be free from pride and little afflicted by the love of money,, it may be difficult to carry through; the second is also a definite law, although much skill and experience may be needed for its accomplish- ment, but it is when we attempt to combine the two laws in any given case that the real diffi- culties of medical etiquette begin. EthmOCephaluS. — A teratological type in which the orbits are approximated; the nose is represented by a proboscis, and there are usually other facial defects; a form of cebocephalus {q.v.). Ethmoidal Cells. See Nose, Acces- sory Sinuses, Inflammation. EthmoiditiS. — Inflammation in the ethmoid bone and in its neighbourhood. EthnolOgry. See Anthropology; An- thropometry ; Physiognomy. Ethnology is the