205 EYE, CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF of different sizes, and to each size is given a number indicating the distance at which it subtends an angle of 5 minutes. The distance must be sufiicient to exclude the use of the accommodation by the normal eye. Usually 6 metres is chosen, and the lowest line is arranged for this distance and numbered 6. As, however, a distance of 6 M cannot always be obtained indoors, some sets of test-types are arranged for 5 M, the smallest letters being numbered 5. To test the patient's vision it is only necessary to ascertain which are the smallest letters that he can see at a known distance. The result is then recorded as a fraction, the numerator being the number of metres from the test-types, and the denominator the distance at which the type read should be visible to a normal eye. For example, at 6 M No. 9 is read V = |ths. At 6 M No. 6 is read V = |- or normal. If nothing can be read at 6 M the patient may be taken nearer till the top letter No. 60 is read. If this is a 3 metres V = /g-. In each case the fraction might be reduced, but if left as it is it indicates not only the relation of the jjatient's vision to the normal standard, but also the conditions under which the test was performed. Although the use of Snellen's types forms in all cases a convenient method of noting the patient's vision, it does not give the acuity of vision unless any existing error of refraction is first corrected. This is the case to some extent in all forms of ametropia, but it is obvious that in myopia, the test-types being beyond the range of the patient's vision, he cannot be expected to see them, and the inability to do so does not indicate a lowered acuteness of vision. In such cases the types may be brought within the patient's far-point by means of a concave lens, or the types themselves may be brought near, but in the latter case it will, of course, be necessary to have smaller letters, so that they may subtend an angle of 5' at the required distance. Snellen's leading types are arranged with this object, and are numbered from 4'5 to 0-3, the figures in each case indicating the distance in metres at which the type subtends at an angle of 5'. The vision by the use of these types could be noted in the same manner as the distant vision, the numerator of the fraction being the distance at which the type is held, and the denominator the distance at which the type read should be legible. These reading types, however, give less accurate result than those employed for distance, because it is diflicult to get the letters of the proper size and their com- ponent parts properly related, and also because in a short distance a slight inaccuracy of measurement has more effect than when the distance is greater. Jaeger's reading test-types are more commonly used for near vision, but these are numbered without any reference to the distance at which they should be visible. If the patient cannot, after correction of any refractive error, read the largest of the distance types, his vision may be recorded by bringing him nearer until he can recognise the largest type. If he sees the letter marked 60 at 3 metres his vision is -^'y. In cases where the vision is still further reduced the patient should be asked to count fingers in a good light, and the distance at which this can be done correctly gives a record of his visual acuity, e.g. RV = fingers at 2 meti-es. If fingers cannot be counted the hand should be moved from side by side in front of the patient's eye at a distance of a foot or so, and the patient asked to indicate the direction of movement. V = hand- movements. Finally, by shading or exposing the eye the ability of the patient to distinguish between gradations of light and shade may be ascertained, or the patient seated in a darkened room may be asked to distinguish when a light reflected from the ophthalmoscopic mirror strikes the eye, and further to state the direction from which the light comes. (Perception and pro- jection of light.) In testing illiterates and young children types have been devised corresponding in size to Snellen's, but all consisting of the letter E turned in various directions—up, down, to right or left. The letters are pointed out to the patient, who is asked to indicate in which direction the letter lies. Another method on a different principle is the dot-counting test in use in the army. With very small children it is often useful to show them small objects, as coins and sweets, and note whether the child recognises and clutches at the object. Young- babies will follow with their eyes a light flashed on them from a mirror, and this also is a useful method in determining whether a baby is blind or not. After recording the visual acuity as found by Snellen's types, it is often necessary to deter- mine the nearest point of distinct vision in one or both eyes. This is done by measuring the shortest distance from the eyes at which a small, well-defined object, as small type or fine threads, can still be seen distinctly without blurring of their outlines. This point is called the near point. In modei'ate degrees of myopia the far point can be similarly localised by measuring the greatest distance at which a small object can still be seen distinctly. {See "Refraction" and "Accommodation.") The power of convergence may be estimated by causing the patient to fix a small object held in the middle line and gradually brought nearer the patient until one or other eye is seen to give up the convergent movement. The con- vergence is defective if the patient cannot easily convei-ge on a point 10 cm. distant from the root of the nose in the middle line. For more exact estimation Landolt uses a fine line of light, and the patient is asked to state the