241 FACIES (Chronic Diarrhoea, SymfAomn); Leprosy {Fades leonina); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoids {Symp- toms). Fa-Ctories. Sea Employment, Hours of. Faeces. Physical Examination . . . .241 Abnormalities in . . . . .241 F/Eces in Certain Diseases . . . 242 Microscopical and Bacteriological Ex- amination ...... 243 Chemical Examination .... 243 Incontinence of . . . . . 244 See also Appendix Vermiformis, Appendicitis {Causes); Children, Clinical Examination of {Alimentary System, Examination of the Fceces); Colon, Diseases of ; Diarrhcea ; Digestion AND Metabolism {Forces); Pancreas, Diseases op {Symjytoms) ; Pelvis, Perineum and Pelvic Floor {Lesions, Tears, Incontinence of Fmces); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Fceces); Pigments of the Body and Excreta ; Rectum, Diseases of {Symptoms, Incontinence of Fceces); Typhoid Fever {Sympitoms). Definition.—By the term fa3ces we mean all the excreta, whatever their source, which leave the body by the anus. Most healthy persons have a movement of the bowels about once in twenty - four hours. Some, however, without any noticeable departure fi'om health, have two movements per day ; while others have their bowels moved only every second or third day. Characters.—The examination of theffeces is of interest to the physician and to the physiologist. To the former the most important methods of examination are tlie pliysical and the bacterio- logical ; the results of chemical investigation have hitherto been chiefly interesting to the latter. The Physical Examination.—A. The Normal Fceces.—The character of healthy fajces varies considerably, chiefly owing to the influence of diet. The principal features are as follows :— (1) The amount averages about 6 or 8 ounces daily. (2) The consistence is such that the motions are " formed," that is to say, they take and retain the shape of the bowel. Fteces retained any length of time lose some of their moisture, and become firmer or even quite hard (scybalous). (3) The colour is mainly due to a pigment called stercobilin, which is believed to be identical with hydrobilirubin. On a vegetable diet the fteces are usually pale. On a flesh diet the presence of hpcmatin or substances derived from it {e.g. ferrous sulphide) may produce a dark shade of colour. (4) The characteristic odour of fteccs is mainly due to skatol bodies. (5) The reaction varies, but is usually alkaline. vol. Ill (6) The specific gravity varies considerably. Usually ffeces float in water, but if they have been long retained in the bowel they may sink owing to loss of gas. The Normal Fcxces of Infants.—The first dis- charges after birth are called mecotiium. This is semi-solid in consistence, greenish-black in colour, and composed chiefly of concentrated bile and intestinal debris. It is discharged three or four times daily for two or three days. The stools then gradually change in character, and assume the appearance of healthy milk fasces by the fourth or fifth day. A healthy suckling discharges two or three ounces of fteces daily. These are of soft, homo- geneous consistence, of a rich yellow colour, and of an acid reaction. They have a faintly sour but not disagreeable odour. The colour is due to bilirubin. The reaction is ascribed to lactic acid or to fatty acids. When an infant is fed on cow's milk the ftcces are paler, firmer, and neutral or even alkaline in reaction owing to the decomposition of casein. Casein is always present, and may be present in large amount in the stools of infants fed on cow's milk. Starch, recognised by the blue reaction with iodine, or by the microscope, is always present if the infant is taking a food containing starch, and is more abundant the younger the infant. Fat is present as fat, fatty acids, or soaps. It must not be confused with particles of casein. B. Abnormalities in the Fceces.—(a) Abnor- malities in the amount and consistence of the fiieces depend chiefly on activity of peristalsis. If the intestinal peristalsis is either too sluggish or too active the patient will suff'er from con- stipation in the one instance or from diarrhoea in the other. The diet influences the amount and consistence of the fieces very greatly. On a purely vegetable diet the total bulk of the fffices may be increased to nearly three times, and the solid constituents to nearly twice the amount resulting from an ordinary mixed diet. {b) Colour.—The ffcces may be pale or clay- coloured in any condition which prevents the entrance of bile into the intestine. Such acholic stools may contain an abundance of fat, chiefly in the form of the fatty acids. Abundance of fat is more characteristically seen in cases where the pancreatic juice is absent. Depth of colour may be due to abundance of the normal pigment, or to the nature of the diet {suj^ra). The dark colour of meconium is due to a mixture of bilirubin and biliverdin. When htemorrhage occurs into the intestine, especially high up, the fa}ces become black and tarry. A black colour may also be due to certain drugs, especially iron and bismuth. Other drugs wliich may discolour the freces are hematoxylin (logwood) ; rhubarb, senna, and santonin (yel- low) ; calomel (green). The green colour, after the administration of calomel, is due to biliverdin. 16