GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF 386 quent adhesions, the formation of such a fistula does not usually cause much inconvenience or give rise to any need for operative interference, but when the communication is with the stomach the passage of bile into that organ may lead to the necessity for active treatment. Rare forms —biliary-urinary, biliary-vaginal, biliary-thor- acic, biliary - pulmonary, biliary - pericardial, biliary-mediastinal, biliary-pleural, biliary-retro- peritoneal, and biliary-portal — have been de- scribed, but they are of extremely infrequent occurrence. Stricture of the hile ducts, apart from that due to cancer, is, judging from reported cases, a much rarer condition than might be supposed. Though there is no reason why it should not be a sequel of ulceration arising from other causes than cholelithiasis, I am not aware of any case having been repoi'ted where it was not preceded by the presence of biliary calculi. It should be noted, however, that it may not declare itself until some time after the exciting cause has been removed, either by operation or through ulceration leading to the formation of a fistula thi'ough which the stones escaj)e. If in the cystic duct the only symptom pre- sent may be a gradually enlarging tumovir in the gall-bladder region, with or without pain or uneasiness; if in the common duct, jaundice supervenes, at first being only slight, but ulti- mately becoming intense, the liver progressively enlarges, and if it be not shrunken from the continued irritation of gall-stones, the gall- bladder distends. So far as I know, only one case of stricture of the hepatic duct has been described, and in it the symptoms were like those of stricture of the common duct, but with no distension of the gall-bladder. The case ultimately proved fatal from peritonitis due to ulceration of a stone into the peritoneal cavity. Cases of stricture of the ducts can scarcely be diagnosed, but will mostly be suspected to be cases of impacted calculus, the condition only being recognised when the abdomen is opened. In stricture of the cystic duct probably the best treatment is to remove the gall-bladder, but cholecystenterostomy may be performed. When the obstruction is in the common duct, cholecystenterostomy or choledochenterostomy should, as a rule, be done, but if the patient be too ill to bear a prolonged operation, chole- cystotomy will relieve the symptoms. It may occasionally be possible to excise a stricture and join the cut ends of the duct, or to perform a plastic operation so as to widen the lumen of the bile passage. Unless there is great dilatation of the hepatic duct no operation is likely to be of much avail in stricture of that channel, but if it is suffi- ciently distended it might be feasible to connect it either with the gall-bladder or with the intestine by means of a Murphy's button. Stricture of the gall-bladder, giving rise to an hour - glass shaped organ, occasionally occurs from ulceration of the gall-bladder, and may even proceed so far that the upper cavity is quite shut oft' from the lower. In such a case the upper sac should be amputated and the lower drained, as in ordinary cholecystotomy, after any concretions which may be present have been removed. Peritonitis of an acute kind may occur along with the ulceration apart from any gross com- munication between the interior of the bile passages and the peritoneum, the removal of the epithelial lining apparently permitting microbes to pass through the wall of the sac, but this is not common. Another uncommon complication of ulceration is hcemorrhage. Usually as the ulceration proceeds thrombosis takes place in the vessels, but occasionally severe haemorrhage results, and several cases have been recorded in which the fatal issue seems to have been determined by loss of blood arising in this way. Tumours of the Gall-Bladder Under this general head it is convenient to consider two very different conditions, viz. en- largement from distension and new growths affecting the gall-bladder. The gall-bladder may, from a variety of causes, be so distended, apart from any new growth, as to be felt on palpation of the ab- domen. The commonest cause is undoubtedly obstruction to the cystic duct by the impaction of a gall-stone or from hydatid disease, but it may follow on the blocking of the common duct by a stone or from pressure on the ducts exer- cised from without. The proportion of cases in which cholelithiasis is associated with distended gall-bladder is, however, comparatively small, as mostly, where gall-stones have been present for some time, they cause so much inflammatory thickening of the wall of the cyst and destruc- tion of its mucus-secreting glands that it is incapable of much distension even should the ducts become blocked,—indeed it is much more common to find it shrunken and smaller than normal. Where malignant disease is so situated as tO' occlude the larger bile passages, it is very much more common to find the gall-bladder so dis- tended as to be palpable, because there has, as a rule, at least when the cause of the obstruction is situated in the common duct as it most fre- quently is, been no preceding interference with the glands studding the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder, and these continue to pour out mucus while the normal walls of the cyst readily yield to the increased internal tension. A distended gall-bladder rarely reaches much below the umbilicus, but some have been found to fill the abdomen to such an extent as to have been operated on under the assumption that