EYEBALL, INJURIES OF 216 finally, as already mentioned, it may go through the globe into the orbit. If the media are fairly clear, we may witli the ophthalmoscope see the foreign body as a dark object with glistening margins in the vitreous or embedded in the fundus. Bubbles of air are sometimes met with in the vitreous, and are strong but not absolute proof of the presence of a foreign body; they are round, often multiple, glisten at the centre, and have a dark, sharply-defined border, by whicli charac- ters they can easily be distinguished from solid substances. They always disappear in from one to two days. Choroidal plaques, often very bright and silver}' looking, give us the impression of a plate of metal lying on the fimdus, but can be distinguished by their shining all over and not merely at the margins. When a foreign body lias rebounded from the back of the eye we find a spot where the sclerotic is exposed, with some haemorrhage around it, and when present this affords us valuable information as to the nature of the accident. Another piece of corroborative evidence is the presence of a finely speckled appearance of the macula, which is common even when the foreign body lies at a considerable distance from this part of the eye. Chemically indifferent and smooth objects, such as a piece of glass, a lead pellet, or a portion of highly-polished wire, may remain a long time in the vitreous without causing any inflammation; but a fragment of iron with roughened surface soon gives rise to inflamma- tion, and becomes completely encapsuled in lymph in about a fortnight, after which the inflammation subsides, but is very apt to recur. Rusty discoloration of the iris, lens, and other tissues takes place from lengthy retention of a piece of iron, and in such cases is of some diagnostic service. Removal of Foreign Bodies from the Vitreous Chamher.—When the body is not magnetisable our chance of successfully removing it is so very small that this should be attempted only if we can actually see it, and it happens to lie near the equator, either in the superficial layers of the vitreous or in contact with the coats of the eye. Under these circumstances an incision is made by a lance-thrust, when gentle pressure may cause the foreign body to escape with a sUght prolapse of vitreous, or a forceps may be introduced and the foreign body seized and removed. Unfortunately, however, it frequently happens that our attempts are fruitless : the vitreous escapes, but the foreign body remains in the eye. Before undertaking the operation, it is ad- visable to get the patient's permission to remove the eye at once if we should not succeed in extracting the foreign body. If it is a piece of iron or steel that has entered the eye, and, fortunately, 75 per cent of all cases are of this nature, our chances of success by the use of the electro-magnet, first devised and employed systematically by Hirsch- berg in 1879, are very much greater. Hirsch- berg's instrument, consisting of a cylinder of soft iron surrounded by wire, connected with a battery, and tapped at one end to hold difl'erent-sized probes, is convenient and inex- pensive. Similar instruments have been devised by Snell, M'Hardy, Froehlich, Jany, and others. We are much more likely to succeed if the operation be undertaken within a day, or not later than two, after the accident, before it becomes covered with lymph, and if it is not embedded in the coats of the eye. When an operation is considered advisable it should be done at once. If the wound of entrance is in the sclerotic, it should be enlarged and the electric needle thrust into the vitreous towards the metal if seen, or in the direction in which it is supposed to lie. If successful, a " click " is botli lieard and felt, and on slowly withdrawing the instru- ment the foreign body will be found attached. The conjunctiva is then sutured over the wound in the sclerotic. If the foreign body has gained the vitreous by going through the cornea, and the lens is opaque, we should extract the cataract by a lower flap, and then make for the foreign body by passing the electric needle through the operation wound. If the lens has not been wounded our best plan is to dissect up a con- junctival flap, about the equator, towards the outer side of the inferior rectus, and with a Graefe's knife make an incision five or six millimetres in length in a sagittal direction. The knife should be thrust deeply into the vitreous to reach the foreign body, if possible, which renders the use of the magnet much more effective. If we are in doubt as to the presence of a piece of iron or steel, the use of the sidero- scope will, it is said, tell us for certain by the " dip " of the balanced needle which is enclosed in a glass tube, and by placing the tube on different parts of the front of the eye we can judge the position of the foreign body with sufficient accuracy to decide where we should make our sclei'al incision. Haab's giant magnet,^ a large cylindrical- shaped instrument weighing 30 kg., with blunt conical extremities, is of great service. If the patient be placed with his cornea close to or in contact with one of the poles, the occurrence of sharp pain tells us of the presence of a fragment of iron or steel which is drawn from &ny part of the interior of the eye, either into the anterior chamber or through the circumlental space to the back of the iris, which is seen to bulge. ' Obtaine<l from the maker, Jacob Rieter et Cie, Winterthur, Switzerland. Cost 450 frs.