FIFTH NERVE, AFFECTIONS OF 271 Gowers states "that the associated paralysis of tiie conjugate movements of both eyes towards the side of the lesion is conclusive evidence of disease within the pons." In conclusion, pain due to an irritative lesion of the fifth or one of its branches is more per- sistent than a mere functional neuralgia can ever be, and the addition of anaesthesia may clear up a case otherwise doubtful. Treatment.—Once the lesion has been local- ised, then the next step is to attempt its removal where this is possible. Where syphilis is a probable cause, suitable and prompt treatment should be commenced. Pain should be soothed by fomentations and poultices, but the utmost care must be taken of the skin, which is easily damaged by too hot applications. Blistering or counter-irritation should be limited to skin not supplied by any branches of the affected nerve, and therefore such treatment is generally undesirable. Seda- tives internally, such as opium, gelseminum, and chloral, and locally, such as morphia and cocaine, may be required. Faradic or galvanic stimulation is often useful where the nerve-fibres are not affected beyond hope of recovery, or where recovery of power of conducting impulses is actually in progress. Strychnine hypodermically injected near the alFectod nerve has been found useful in a few cases. When there is the smallest reason to suspect that there is progressive neuritis present, by wliich term inflammation in tlie nerve is im- plied, then absolute rest should be enjoined, and electricity and such remedies as strychnine must on no account be used. Affections op Taste It may not be out of place to remind the reader that the sense of taste is specially acute at the root of the tongue along the line of the circumvallate papillae, in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces, along the edges, and at the tip of the tongue, and that the dorsum is a much less sensitive surface. Certain parts of the gustatory mucous membrane appear to be pecuharly adapted for the recognition of special qualities of taste, such as bitterness and sweet- ness which are most easily appreciated with the back of the tongue, and sourness and saltness which are better recognised at the tip and edges. It must also be remembered that acuteness of taste varies in different individuals, and be- comes dulled with the advance of old age. Sugar, salt, quinine, citric acid, but specially a weak galvanic current, are good methods of testing the sense of taste. The tongue should be protruded, and a little of the powder, or, better still, a fairly strong solution, rubbed upon the part of the organ to be tested. Re- cognition of the quality of the substance tasted should be indicated by signs or in writing. No. substance should be used which stimulates nerve - endings subserving common sensation. If galvanism is used, two wire electrodes con- nected with one or at most two cells should be^ placed veiy close together on the tongue, when,, if gustatory sensation is intact, a peculiar metallic taste is at once felt by the patient. This is an accurate method, and one of very easy application. A weak current should invariably be used,, because pain is inevitably experienced where a strong current is employed, and this must ob^ scure an otherwise accurate test for taste sensa- tion. One great advantage obtained by using a weak galvanic current is, that it alone gives, an absolutely terapoi'ary sensation, whereas salt, sugar, etc. all leave for a considerable period of time a more or less lasting taste impression, thus greatly pi'otracting the examination and even rendering accurate diagnosis difficult. Perhaps an even better method of employing the galvanic current has been suggested by Neumann. It consists in placing the neutral electrode on the sternum, and the pointed dia- gnostic electrode is then applied to the tongue. With the positive pole or anode an acid sensation is experienced, while with the negative or cathode it is alkaline. The tongue, the soft palate, the fauces, and the buccal surface of the epiglottis contain the l^eripheral taste organs. The anterior two- thirds of the tongue is supplied by taste fibres, through the chorda tympani nerve, the posterior- third by the glosso-pharyngeal, and the soft palate and fauces by branches from Meckel's ganglion. It seems probable, however, that all the taste fibres, for the tongue at least, pass, eventually into the sensory root of the fifth. The fibres for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue are distributed to that organ by the lingual branch of the fifth, from which they pass into the chorda tympani, thence to the seventh, thence they pass by the great superficial petrosal and vidian nerves to the sensory root of the fifth. An isolated case recorded by Ferguson, in which an exostosis pressed upon and destroyed the left vidian nerve, proves the course taken by these fibres with considerable definiteness. It produced both loss of taste in the left half of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue and descending- degeneration in the great superficial petrosal nerve, which could be traced thi'ough the geni- culate ganglion, thence into the facial, thence into the chorda tympani, and finally into the lingual nerves. The fibres for the posterior third of the tongue, which are distributed by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, probably leave that nerve by the nerve of Jacobson, and then by the small superficial petrosal nerve reach tlie otic ganglion, and thence pass into the third division of the fifth. Erb, Schift', Vulpian, Gowers, and others have-