296 FIRST AID lotverjaw is fractured or dislocated the narrow bandage is also employed; the centre includes the chin, and one end is carried up till just in front and above the ear ; the other end is carried xip in front of the other ear, over the vertex, and down till it meets the first end ; here they are twisted on each other so that the direction of the ends now pass one forwards above the eyebrows, the other backwards below the occiput; they are then knotted. This arrange- ment is also used for retaining dressings in the temporal region or compressing the temporal artery in haemorrhage from it or its branches. In burns of the chest, dressings can be fixed on one side, for example, the right side, by employing the triangular bandage; the apex is laid well over the shoulder of the same side, the area of the triangle hanging down in front; the base is now carried round the chest to the back and knotted beneath the right shoulder, conse- quently one end of the base is left longer after the knotting; this end is in turn knotted to the apex. The process is reversed when the back of the chest is to be bandaged. It is not often that the shoulder requires to be bandaged, gunshot, lacerated wounds, and burns being the conditions requiring dressings. Two bandages are needed; one used in the triangular form is placed over the shoulder, the apex lying on the corresponding side of the neck, and the base over the upper arm ; the base is now carried round the upper arm and knotted. As in injuries of the upper extremity a sling is advisable, the second bandage is utilised as such, and passes round the neck over the apex of the first bandage which is pinned to it. As the full-sized triangle is too large for the elbow the base is folded towards the apex, so as not only to reduce the size, but to obtain the advantage of the narrow bandage. The apex is placed well above the top of the elbow, and the ends of the base are carried from behind for- wards and upwards so as to cross in front of the joint, and then pass backwards, including the apex in this turn ; if there is sufficient bandage the ends are carried forward again and knotted in front. The narrow bandage is used for the upper arm, forearin, and palm ; especially in the lower third of the forearm it is useful, cuts being- common here, and in such injuries about the wrist investigation should be made concerning the tendons and nerves which may possibly be divided. The palm is often lacerated by falls on it, and cuts involving the palmar arches require localised pressure ; in both these con- ditions the narrow bandage is applied by placing the centre on the palm, the ends pass outwards and inwards, then upwards over the dorsum, where they are crossed and continued round the wrist and knotted. Smashes of the hand and fingers can be covered by using the whole triangle; the hand is laid on it, the fingers towards the apex, and arranged so that when the apex is turned back it will not only cover the back of the hand, but lie well upon the wrist; the base is now carried I'ound the wrist, enclosing the apex, and they are all knotted together. In wounds or burns about the hip two bandages are required; one, employed as a triangle, is placed with the apex on the abdomen, while the base is carried round the thigh and knotted; the other bandage is used as a waist belt, including the apex of the triangle which is knotted to it. The thigh, knee, leg, and foot are all bandaged in a manner similar to that of the upper ex- tremity. (For roller bandages see " Band- ages," vol. i.) Improvised sjjlints are of all sorts ; among the most suitable and obtainable are wooden boards, leather belting, cardboard, folded newspapers, straw bottle-holders, basket work, heather tied in bundles. In the lower extremity, in addition, longer forms of splints are required, such as broom-handles, unloaded guns, umbrellas, etc. These can be padded with whatever soft material there is at hand,—moss, heather, hay, shavings, feathers, stockings, and in cases where there is no appearance of blood through the clothes they can be left on. Fractures of the upper extremity do not of necessity require emergency splints, but these give such relief that they should be applied. In the common fracture, that of the collar-bone, when triangular handkerchiefs are not available, the following method is useful:—A walking- stick is placed horizontally behind the back about the level of the scapulae, both elbows are hooked behind it, and a handkerchief tied to the wrist of the affected arm is carried over the sound shoulder down the back and fastened to the walking-stick. Cardboard, newspapers, and straw are very useful in the treatment of fractures, both of the upper and lower arms ; where both forearms are broken, the arms should be crossed and fastened to the same board placed anteriorly. In addition to the short splints, such long splints as have been mentioned are of service in fractures about the thigh, and it must not be forgotten that the sound leg makes also an excellent splint. Fractures of the fibula can be well fixed with an external splint, or should the injured person be wearing riding-boots they can be left on. The commonest injuries to joints are sprains, the wrist, ankle, and knee being chiefly aff"ected; they can be distinguished from dislocation by the movements of the joints being natural; much depends on the first treatment; elastic pressure is the best, obtained by padding the part well with stockings or shawls, wool, etc., and finally bandaging them in place. Dislocations are best left alone except to sup- port the part beyond, as skilled assistance is usually required to bring about reduction; how-