GROIN, THE 526 should be parallel to the principal vessels and nerves. Cellulitis of the surrounding tissues occasionally accompanies suppuration in the glands, and, if free incision of the glands does not arrest or cure the cellulitis, it is advisable to prolong the incision into the inflamed area. One of the commonest forms of suppuration in the inguinal glands is the result of a soft chancre on the penis, the treatment of which differs in no respect from that just mentioned. Before suppuration has occurred great relief may be given to the patient by applying fomentations of hot water, or hot lea,d and opium lotion ; frequent changing of the fomentations enhances the value of this treatment. 2. A tuberculous condition of the inguinal lymphatic glands is not vmcommon, resulting either as an infection from a tuberculous area, or as part of a general tviberculous infection of the glands. Several of the glands are usually affected, and they may remain enlarged for some time, and then disappear without any local treatment; or they may.remain enlarged for a lengthened period without giving rise to any trouble ; or they may undergo caseous degeneration, in which case the glands should be excised, or thoroughly curetted; or suppuration may take place in them, in which case incision being practically impossible or difficult to perform, curetting should be resorted to. General treatment, in the form of cod-liver oil, fresh air, and sunlight, should not be neglected. 3. Syphilitic affection of the inguinal glands is frequently met with, usually as a sequel to a hard chancre of the penis. Inguinal glands, when enlarged from this cause, do not, as a rule, suppurate if the patient rest; but if they do, a free incision and the application of some mer- curial dressing, combined with constitutional treatment, is the indication. In Hodgkin's disease or lymphadenoma, the lymphatic glands in the groin are enlarged, as are the lymphatic glands throughout the body generally. The glands form irregvdar and nodulated masses of various sizes, are either soft or firm, usually painless, and at first freely movable; later they may become adherent, but rarely caseate or suppurate. In the majority of cases no local treatment in the groin is necessary; for the general treatment of this condition the article on Hodgkin's disease should be consulted. (The diagnosis of this condition presents little difficulty; enlargement of the lymphatic glands, especially in the neck, the axilla, and the groin, associated with anaemia, is charactei'istic.) Elephantiasis may be mentioned, for in those cases in which the leg and the thigh are affected, the groin shares in the general hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Fistulis in the groin are occasionally met with in this con- dition as the result of rupture of obstructed and distended lymphatic vessels. Phlegmasia alba dolens, which is due to thrombosis of the femoral vein—and probably also of the iliac veins—produces extensive oedema of the lower extremity, resembles a mild case of elephantiasis in appearance, but could scarcely be mistaken for that condition. The following is a list of the conditions which may be met with in the groin, each of which will be described in more detail in special articles {q.v.)— Abscess and cellulitis ; aneurysm ; aneurysm with suppurating sac ; arterio-venous aneurysm ; varix of long saphenous vein ; varix of femoral vein; phlebitis; phlegmasia alba dolens ; enlarge- ment of glands (adenitis; bubo); lymphadenoma ; hernia,—inguinal, femoral, and obturator, with their varieties, — reducible, irreducible, and strangulated,—also the morbid conditions of the sac occasionally met with, viz. : hydrocele of the sac, and accumulation of ascitic fluid in the sac ; various tumours—simple, sarcomatous, carcino- matous, and vascular; bursal tumours and cysts ; undescended ovary and testicle, which may become inflamed in the inguinal canal; hydrocele, simple or diffuse, of the cord, and hsematocele of the coi'd ; psoas and iliac abscess; perityphlitic and perinephritic abscess; hip- joint disease; synovitis and suppuration in the liip-joint; dislocation, congenital and acquired, of the hip-joint; rider's bone, attributed to ossification of the tendon of the adductor longus or magnus as a consequence of injury. The space allotted to this article prevents an elaborate description being given of the differ- ential diagnosis of the numerous conditions just mentioned, and, therefore, it must suffice if a short account be given of the procedure to be adopted, and the points to be borne in mind, in making a diagnosis of the nature of a lump, swelling, or tumour in the groin. 1. The Age of the Patient.-—Such conditions as aneurysm, malignant tumours, and rider's bone are unlikely to be met with in the very young, while in the aged tuberculous lesions are rare. 2. History of the Case.—A history of injury should be carefully inquired into; accurate information should be obtained about former illnesses and injuries and previous operations. The sudden appearance of the swelling would eliminate the different varieties of tumour, but might suggest hernia or aneurysm. The rapidity in growth of the swelling may vary between wide limits—a tumour, almost stationary as regards size, might be a hydrocele or one of the simple tumours, whereas rapid increase in growth might point to malignant disease, abscess, aneurysm, etc. 3. The Character of the Swelling. — If it disappears on manipulation it is unlikely to be anything but a hernia or a congenital hydrocele; if it is much reduced in size on pressure or by position it may be a varix, or a psoas, or iliac abscess. It is certain to be a varix if pressure