376 GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS, DISEASES OF or in the bile ducts, severe pain is not a common symptom, though it does occur, and the wasting and deterioi'ation of the general health are more rapid than in jaundice due to impacted stone. Where the cause of the disease is simple it is distinctly unusual to find a distended gall-bladder; but in obstructive jaundice dependent on malignant disease, especially cancer of the head of the pancreas, this condition is the rule. It should, however, be remembered that gall-stones are probably invariably present before primary malignant disease of the gall-bladder or bile ducts, and in any particular case both conditions may be present. The absence of pain at the onset of the last attack of persistent jaundice raises the suspicion of cancer, and in such a case may be so striking as to lead the patient himself to remark on the fact. Should a positive diagnosis be impossible, an exploratory incision will clear it up, but great help may be derived in such a case by a careful examination of the urine and fcBces, since in common duct cholelithiasis of some standing it is usual to find associated pancreatic inflamma- tion, when pancreatic crystals can be found in the urine and excess of neutral fat in the motions (7) and (8). Aspiration of a distended gall-bladder or sound- ing for gall-stones should never be resorted to, as neither gives any information which cannot be obtained by a careful examination of the patient, and both operations are dangerous. Treatment.—Once gall stones have formed, it is probable that no means at present at our disposal suffice to dissipate them; but as some medical authorities hold a contrary opinion it will be well to consider here the various remedies which are supposed to have this power. The drug which is most in favour at the present time is olive oil. It should be given in large quantity, as much as half a pint per day being recommended by some. There can be no doubt that if the oil could reach the calculi in the gall-bladder or bile ducts, and remain in contact with them, it would bring them into solution, as olive oil has been found to dissolve 68 per cent of a gall-stone placed in it for two days. Oleic acid has a similar but rather more rapid effect, and a solution of animal fat also has a tendency to soften biliary concretions. There is, however, no evidence to show that ingested oil can come into direct contact with calculi in the bile passages. It has been suggested that the good effect said to be obtained may be explicable on the supposition that an increased absorption of fat in the form of fatty acids and soaps leads to a greater proportion of these in the bile, and that they are the active ingredients in causing the dissipation of the concretions. It seems, therefore, just possible that the administration of oil may in some cases, especi- ally where the concretions are small, lead to their dissolution, or so reduce their bulk as to permit them to pass: but it should be re- membered that excess of fat in any form is apt to induce dyspepsia and catarrh of the stomach and duodenum, and in this way may tend to aggravate the condition which it is sought to relieve. So far as my own experience goes, I cannot say that in any case, even after treatment by this means continued over a lengthened period, I have seen any such material benefit as other writers describe. The so-called saline cholagogues do not affect gall-stones introduced into sokxtions containing them, so that their administration is not likely to have much effect in ridding a patient of calculi once they ai'e formed, though they may relieve the associated catarrh. Chloroform, ether, turpentine, and several other substances readily dissolve cholesterin; but there is no evidence to show that, when taken by the mouth, they are excreted in the bile in such quantity as to have any effect in removing gall-stones in the gall-bladder or bile ducts. During an attack of cholelithic colic the pain is so severe that not infrequently it is necessary to give morphine ; but in other cases, where the pain is less intense, it may be relieved by the administration of a tumblerful of water as hot as it can comfortably be taken and the local appli- cation of hot compresses. Surgical Treatment.— (a) When gall-stones in the gall-bladder or cystic duct give rise to symptoms, though urgent need for operative interference is less than in those cases in which the common duct is occupied by a calculus, yet in a certain number operation will be called for, notwithstanding the absence of those complica- tions, inflammatory and other, which will be discussed later. In simple cholelithiasis the two conditions which would seem to indicate necessity for surgical interference are gall-stone colic, recur- ring so frequently as to interfere with the general health of the patient or prevent him filling his position in society, and enlargement of the gall-bladder without jaundice, even in the absence of pain. It should also be remembered that delay in resorting to operation means increased risk, from shrinkage of the gall-bladder and the formation of adhesions, should it become neces- sary to operate later; while there seems little doubt that the continuous irritation from the presence of gall-stones predisjjoses to malignant disease of the gall-bladder and cystic duct. In addition there is always the risk of acute inflam- matory disturbance supervening, and operation having to be done with the patient in a bad condition to withstand surgical interference. Cholecy.ototomy.—The operation most gener- ally useful is that of cholecystotomy. A vertical incision through the outer border of the right