309 FOETUS AND OVUM, DEVELOPMENT OF however, to show that any definite relation sub- sists between the process of menstruation and the ripening of the Graafian follicles. The mechanism of rupture appears to be as follows : —Progressive increase in size of the follicle is due to the activity of the menibrana granulosa and to continuous accretion of fluid. The follicle protrudes upon the surface of the ovary, since that is the direction of least resistance. The actual bursting of the follicle depends upon degenerative changes in the follicular epithelium, which Aveaken the wall so as to render it unable to resist the pressure of its contained fluid. The cells of the cumulus are included in the de- generative change, so that when the follicle l)ursts the ovum is detached and so escapes. The exact nature of the degenerative process is undetermined, but fatty metamorphosis plays a considerable part in it. According to the I'ccent observations of Nagel (Fig. 1), the human ovum when discharged from the Graafian follicle is furnished with a well-defined covering of follicular cells arranged in two layers, the outer layer consisting of several rows of small, round, or polygonal, closely aggregated cells, the zona granulosa, within which is a double row of colunuiar cells called the cm-ona. This cellular covering pro- tects the ovum during its migration from the ovary to the uterus, and is gradually dispersed in its transit through the oviduct. Stripped of its protective layers the ovum is a simple cell consisting of a cell-envelope, the zona 2^ellucida, a cell body, the yelk or vitellus, a nucleus, the germinal vesicle, and a nucleolus, the germinal spot. It measures 2 mm. (about i of a line) in diameter. The zona pellucida is a delicate, finely-striated membrane believed to be derived, like the temporary coverings of the ovum, from the follicular cells. Between it and the vitellus is a microscopic space called the j^eri'vitelliiie siKice. The essential portion of the ovum is the central mass of protoplasm with its nucleus, representing the vitellus and germinal vesicle. By the earlier anatomists Graafian follicles were mistaken for ova, and it was not imtil 1827 tiiat the true ovum cell was discovered by von Baer. At this stage the ovum is unripe and incapable of fertilisation ; certain preparatory changes now occur in it, which, in some un- known manner, render it fit for the reception of a spermatozoon. Rijyening of the Ovum.—This process probably occurs during the passage of the ovum through the Fallopian tubes. After being discharged from the Graafian follicle the ovum is carried into the tube by the peritoneal currents set up by the action of the cilia exposed upon the fiiubri;e which surround the abdominal ostium ; its transit through the tube is also effected hy the action of the cilia, lashing from within out- wards or towards the uterus. The length of time occupied in this journey in the human species is unknown, but it has been obserA^ed to take eight days in bitches, and in some other mammals three to five days (Francke). Hyrtl discovei-ed a ripened ovum in the uterine end of the tube of a girl three days after the cessa- tion of menstruation, but as we do not know that menstruation and ovulation are coincident processes no conclusion can be drawn from such observations. The ripening process consists in certain Fio. 1.—Zg, zona granulosa ; Zp, zona pellucida ; C, corona ; D, vitellus or yelk ; A', germinal vesicle. (Playfair.) changes in the ovum which result in the forma- tion and extrusion of the pola-)- bodies and the appearance of the female ^tromtcleits. The pro- cess has been minutely studied in the transparent ova of sea-urchins and star-fishes, and among vertebrates in those of the amphioxus. First the germinal vesicle approaches the periphery of the cell and becomes indistinct in outline ; mitotic changes then occur in it, while a number of radial striae appear in the surrounding proto- plasm. A minute portion of the germinal vesicle is then detached and extruded into the perivitelline space, along with a ring of proto- plasm from the suri-ounding yelk. A second I^recisely similar body is also extruded either at the same or at a neighbouring spot. These are the polar bodies. In vertebrate animals the second polar body is not separated until after fertilisation. The nucleus now recedes towards the centre, and is henceforth known as the female pronucleus. The ovum is now prepared for the coming of the spermatozoa. Fertilisation of the Ovum.—By "fertilisation ' is understood the union of the ovum with the spermatozoon. It is now agreed that this event takes place in the wide outer extremity or infundilndum of the Fallopian tube. To this locality the si^ermatozoa make their way by their own locomotive power's which are known to be considerable. Experimentally human spermatozoa have been oljserved by Hyrtl to