359 FRACTURES phalanges it is better to amputate at once, because union will probably result in a stiff finger-tip anchylosed at an awkward angle after very prolonged treatment. It is usually sufficient in simple fractures to adjust the frag- ments and keep the finger straight by applying a well-padded splint of wood, millboard, or gutta-percha, reaching along the palmar surface from the wrist to the finger-end. Passive movements may be commenced on the tenth day. The Pelvis.—Much ingenuity has been dis- played in constructing elaborate classifications of the various fractures to which the pelvis is liable. But it is sufficient for a practical work to divide them into simple fractures and com- plex, the simple fractures being those in which a portion of the bones are separated without other serious injury; the complex fractures being iFio. IC—Method of applying a Scultptus' many-tailed bandage in a case of fractured pelvis. (Chiene and Dobie.) associated with dislocations of the bones upon each other, or of the femur upon the ilium, with injuries to the contained viscera and urethra, or with epipliyseal displacements. A fractured pelvis is usually caused by some crushing force, as in railway accidents, when the patient has been caught between a moving train and the platform, or between the buffers of two carriages; or by a fall of earth, stone, or coal, as in mining or quarry accidents. The pelvis has been fractured occasionally by indirect violence, as in those cases where a patient has fallen upon his feet, and the force has been sufficient to drive the of power in the lower extremity. When the innominate bone is broken there is increased mobility at the seat of injury, and crepitus can be obtained by gently rocking the pelvis. Injuries to the ischium can be readily explored through the rectum or vagina whilst the tuber- osity is moved beneath the skin. Rotation of the femur will cause crepitus when the aceta- bulum is broken. The special dangers attending fractures of the pelvis are rupture of the urethra, laceration of the bladder either within or outside the peritoneum, tearing of the rectum, and injuries to the spinal cord, the larger nerve trunks of the lumbo-sacral plexus, the iliac arteries, or the iliac veins. Laceration of the membranous portion of the urethra is the most usual com- plication of fractures and separations at the pubes. It is of such importance to treat this injury at once, and before there has been any extravasation of urine, that a catheter should l)e passed in every case of fracture at the front of the pelvis, and if it is impossible to reach the bladder an external ui'ethrotomy should be jierformed. The treatynent necessarily varies with the nature and severity of the injury, but it always I'equires that the patient should be kept in bed for a lengthened period. A many-tailed bandage, made in two layer-s and folded as in Fig. 16, is often a sufficient support. A loop of bandage should be passed under each thigh and pinned to the lower limit of the many-tailed bandage to prevent it slipping upwards. In bad cases double extension with the legs apart must be applied, and in all cases a trij^artite mattress (Fig. 17), the central portion of which may be removed for the use of the bed-pan, is a most useful addition to the comfort of the patient, and it is indispensable when a fracture of the sacrum has caused paralysis of the lower ex- tremities, of the bladder, and of the rectum. A patient may be allowed to get about on crutches in the simple cases at the end of six or eight weeks, his pelvis being protected by a poroplastic splint. The prognosis varies greatly. The injury is often fatal, either at once from the shock and Fin. 17.—A tripartite mattress for use in fractured pelvis. (Chiene and Dobie.) head of the femur througli the acetabulum, tlius splintering the innominate bone. The sign!^ vary with the nature and severity from the important structures involved, or after a long period of illness from the jirofuse suppura- tion of the connective tissues which are so of the injury, but there is always pain and loss I al)undant within the pelvis. Even in tiie least