EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 71 mately miitiug to form the facial framework ; a living picture is as it were passing before his mind's eye. Embryology is, or ought to be, a kinematographic representation, a lifelike re- production of the original moving scene of the whole embryonic period of antenatal existence. The embryo is not like a finished piece of machinery which can be studied both in action and at rest; it is unfinished, it is like a piece of machinery in process of construction, and its activities consist in a ceaseless progress towards a termination which shall be also a comi^letion. In one sense (a limited one) the human embryo attains this finished stage with the close of the embryonic period of antenatal life; but in another sense (a wider one) it has not reached it even at the moment of birth, for some construction or organo-genesis goes on postnatally. In a more usual and less restricted sense Embryology is the science which treats of all the vital phenomena which occur in the uterus and ovary before birth; in this sense, therefore, it includes fcetal physiology and germinal activity as well as ovulation and even men- struation. Its employment, however, in this extended sense is not to be commended. It is but one instance, although a very prominent one, of the general looseness of definition which has prevailed regarding the terminology of antenatal affairs; for instance, the name embryo has been applied to the new organism in the uterus both in the foetal and in the embryonic period, while to the word foetus the same wide significance has been given ; again, to cite a still more evident example, the term ovum has been used not only for the female sexual cell both before and after impregnation, but also for the product of conception at the various months of intra-uterine life. Such a Tisage of terms is sadly lacking in scientific accuracy. In this article the word Embryology is employed as meaning the science which treats of the origin and formation of the parts and organs of the embryo; ^ it deals with a part of antenatal existence which, although some- what short (five to seven weeks), is so crowded with events of such importance as to cai;se it to take rank above all the other periods of life, antenatal and postnatal. It includes the study of all the changes through which the embryo passes, from the appearance of its first rudi- ments in the embryonic area up to the trans- formation of the " transition organism" into the recognisal)ly-human embryo or neofffitus. General Principles of Ejibryology. The general principles of Emlnyology lie buried somewhat deeply ; they are far from the surface, and not easily to be reached or recog- ^ The word Emhryographij might perhaps be substituted, were it not undesirable to introduce new terms or terms used in new senses. nised when reached. It is difficult for the mind to picture a stage in the life of the organism when almost the only manifestation of vital activity is of the purely constructive kind, when, in other words, the framework of the body is being built up. So complex also is the process that certain portions of it, not- withstanding the laborious researches of keen and able embryologists, are still imperfectly understood or only guessed at. It is even more difficult to discover the laws which govern embryological processes, and to trace the general principles which underlie so complex a series of manifestations. One is almost driven to speculate whether, after all, there are laws regulating the mysterious metamorphoses of the embryo, whether indeed the parts do not fall together in kaleidoscopic fashion, and confusion happen somehow to give place to order. But reflection assures the investigator that there must be laws, otherwise he is forced to state that Embryology diff'ers from all the other sciences in being uncontrolled by rule. Yet in no other part of biological study is it so difficult to trace and analyse the laws and their results. Events move so rapidly, form succeeds form and phase follows phase with such swiftness and with so much partial superposition, that nothing less than an arrestment of the succession of pheno- mena at various stages would serve to enable the embryologist to ti\ace the procession of occurrences. Such an arrestment sometimes occurs, and pathology comes to our aid to help us to understand the intricacies of physiology ; but the arrestment is usually of a local and incomplete kind, and its immediate effect is too often simply to increase the complexity of the problem we are attempting to solve. At the same time progress has been made, and further progress will yet be made by means of the care- ful study of these partial arrestments, which we may at once call teratological phenomena, and so ultimately the abnormal and the normal will prove mutually elucidative. In what remains of this section it is my purpose to try to educe from the embryological and teratological data at command such general principles and laws as may seem to be educible. Let the reader meanwhile bear in mind that some of these principles rest upon very insecure foundations, and that after all there is but little advantage in formulating statements which are apparently definite, concise, and clear-cut if the facts do not warrant them or if the facts are not suffi- ciently known to warrant them. Facts must not be twisted to suit general principles, but general principles must be allowed slowly and surely to emerge from the rigorous investigation and comparison of facts. The principles which follow may be said to be emerging from the crucible of modern exact research ; they are not all pure gold, but they have apj^rcciably been cleansed from some impurities.