224 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF bodies, inverted lashes, or any of the conjunctival or corneal affections, and also errors of refrac- tion. If the eyes appear to be normal, changes in the other parts supplied by the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve, more especially in the nose, mouth, or teeth, should be treated. When the cause is removed the spasm subsides without further trouble, unless in its turn it has produced ectropion, or entropion with blepharo- phimosis, of the lids, to which reference again will be made. Primary spasm, especially when it is limited to one eye, in young female patients, is usually due to hysteria. In older people the cause may not be discoverable. The hystei'ical cases, when both eyes are affected, may often be cured at once by the instillation of a few drops of a 2 per cent cocaine solution, provided the patient is assured that they will have this effect; but when one eye only is attacked the condition may continue for years, if too much attention is paid to it, though eventually complete recovery will occur. Senile blepharospasm, for which a remediable cause can be found in the eye, ear, nose, mouth, or throat, is likely to recover, but when nothing can be discovered and cocaine and astringent lotions and treatment (tonics and bromides, etc.) for the general health fail, then a canthoplastic operation can be performed or a portion of the orbicularis muscle near the outer canthus can be excised. Paralysis of the Orbicularis.—Paralysis of the orbicularis, though usually due to an affection of the trunk of the facial nerve, may be caused by some central lesion. The condition leads to epiphora, and sometimes to ulceration of the cornea from exposure of the eye during sleep. Until the treatment which is directed to the relief of the primary cause, rheumatism, syphilis, injuries, inflammation due to ear disease, growths, etc., has succeeded or is given up as hopeless, the orbicularis as well as the other facial muscles should be galvanised regularly, and during sleep the eye should be protected by closing the lids with a pad and bandage or with strapping. When the lower lid droops and becomes everted, the condition should be remedied by the opera- tion of tarsoraphy, if the paralysis cannot be cured. At the same time the punctum may be rein verted by cauterising the conjunctiva just within the tear point. Levator Palpebr^ — Congenital Ptosis. — Congenital ptosis or drooping of the upper lid is usually symmetrical, and not infrequently it is accompanied by an inability to turn the eyes upwards above the horizon even when the lids are held up. The condition is due to the com- plete or partial absence or to paralysis of the elevator of the lids, consequently the patient wrinkles his forehead and throws back his head in his effort to raise the lids and to look beneath them. Operative treatment alone affords the patient relief. The choice of operations are numerous, but one of the simplest and most effectual in the majority of cases is the insertion of a wire sutui'e to connect the occipito-frontalis with the tarsus. This also is the object of most of the other ptosis operations. This operation, which was devised by Dr. Mules, can be practised in the following manner : The patient being antesthetised, a horn spatule is placed beneath the upper lid, which is incised with a Beer's knife, along the line that divides the lashes from the orifices of the Meibomian glands. This incision extends along the middle third of the lid and half-way through the width of the tarsus. Two straight needles, two inches long, are passed from either extremity of the bottom of the wound, through the tarsus, beneath the orbicularis and over the margin of the orbit luitil they emerge, about two inches apart, throvigh the lower part of the occipito-frontalis and the skin above the eyebrows. When both needles are in position the palpebral conjunctival should be inspected to see that it has not been perforated. A Beer's knife is now passed along the needles to enlarge the skin wounds at their point of emergence. The ends of a piece of freshly annealed silver wire is passed through the eyes of the needles and drawn through the lid, leaving a loop buried in the bottom of the tarsal incision ; the ends of the wire are drawn upon until the lid is sufficiently elevated, and then cut off about aii inch from the wounds. Each of these free ends is twisted into a coil, and is pushed through the skin opening into the subcutaneous tissue, and a dressing is applied. The coiled ends of the wire act as knots and can be drawn upon afterwards to lengthen the loop of wire, in case too great an effect was produced at the time of the operation. If at any future time the wire should break, the operation can be repeated. A congenital condition in which the lid usually droops, but is raised spasmodically when the corresponding internal pterygoid muscle con- tracts, is a defect which cannot be remedied. Paralysis of Miiller's muscle due to an affec- tion of the sympathetic nerve leads to narrowing of the palpebral fissure, but not to true ptosis. The treatment should be directed to the relief of the primary cause of the paralysis. Acquired Ptosis.—Ptosis when acquired is caused by a paresis, or paralysis, of the levator palpebrse due to an affection of the nucleus or the trunk of the third nerve in the cranium or orbit. Tabes dorsalis, gummata, inflammation, tumours, and injuries may be the cause of the affection, and until it is relieved by internal treatment nothing further need be done. Even when internal treatment fails, it is rarely neces- sary to perform an operation to raise the lid, except when both eyes are affected (ophthalmo- plegia externa), as this would cause the patient