229 EYELIDS, AFFECTIONS OF Fibromata, or simple molhisca, are removed in the same vvay. Malignant.—Rodent Ulcer.—TIjc slvin of the lids, more especially near the inner canthus, is frequently tlie seat of a rodent ulcer, which may exist as a small raised nodule of infiltration with a central area, covered with a scaly crust, which ulcerates and heals without spreading to any perceptible degree for months or years; tlie small surrounding nodules contain new vessels on their surface. As long as the ulcer is confined to the dry skin it grows very slowly, but when once it has invaded the mucous mem- brane on the lid margin it spreads fairly rapidly. The pre-auricular gland is not enlarged. The treatment consists in removing the growth together with a broad surrounding margin of healthy tissue. When this is done it has no tendency to recur, provided the skin only is involved; but when the mucous membrane is attacked even a very free removal will not always prevent a relapse. When so much of tlie lids has to be removed that the globe is left exposed and cannot be covered by a flap from tlie neighbouring parts it is better to perform exenteration of the orbit. When the bony walls are invaded they must l)e freely removed. Epithelioma Growths of this nature on the lids are rare. They may begin as a small wart on the free edge of the lid, which increases slowly in size until eventually its centre breaks down and ulcerates. By a continuation of this process the lids and surrounding tissues are destroyed and the neighbouring lymphatic glands (pre- auricular and submaxillary) are aflected. The disease may be sinnilated by broken- down sebaceous cysts, molluscum contagiosum, and fungating Meibomian cysts, but an ex- ploratory incision or a microscopic examination will determine the diagnosis. The treatment consists in the free and com- [ilete removal of the growth and the enlarged glands. Sarcoma Sarcoma involving the lids may occur at any age. In infancy it usually begins in tiie orbit and involves the lids secondarily, and is of the round or spindle-shajjed cell variety, whereas in adults it begins generally in some pigmented mole. If the diagnosis is doubtful an explora- toi-y incision should be made and a portion of the growth examined microscopically. In either case complete removal of the growth is essential, and if necessary the whole of the lids and orbital contents must be sacrificed. Rextovation of nn Ei/elid.—Whenever the lid with the palpebral conjunctiva has been removed, an attempt shoidd be made to remedy the loss by means of a pedunculated flap which may be formed from the skin of the forehead, temple, or cheek. In the case of growths it is better to wait until healing of the primary operation wound has taken place before 23erforming- any plastic operation, as by judicious drawing of the neigh- bouring skin and ocular conjunctiva together even the removal of extensive portions of the lids may be recovered from to an unexpected degree. Injuries to the Lids Ecchymosis of the lids, however great the swelling may be, subsides without suppuration under the application of evaporating lotions, provided the skin is not torn, the orbital bones are not bi'oken, and the eye is not injured. AVhen the skin of the lid is wounded the pro- gress of the case will depend upon the cause of the injury. Simple incised wounds, and con- tused wounds caused by a blow with the fist against the margin of the orbit, which may have the appearance of being incised and lead to an error of diagnosis, should be washed and rendered aseptic and then closed with sutures and covered with an antiseptic dressing. When the edge of the lid has been cut through, a silk suture should be passed through the tarsus at its free border and the skin wound carefully united, otherwise a notch is likely to be left in the palpebral margin which would cause epiphora and considerable disfigurement. When this has occurred tiie lid should be divided along the original scar and united. This is called for especially when the lid has been torn through at or near the inner canthus and across the canaliculi. In such cases the nasal portion of the canaliculus should be divided and kept open to prevent its permanent closing. Surgical emphysema of the lids indicates that the injury has broken some of the orbital bones which are covered by the mucous membrane in connection with the air-passages. Through the rent in the membrane air is forced into the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue during the effort which the patient makes to get rid of the blood by blowing the nose. The treatment is to avoid blowing the nose and to keep the parts covered with a spirit or evaporating lead lotion until the swelling has subsided. Eyesig^hta See Eye, and cross-references ; School Chilhren, Examination ; Vision ; etc. Eyestra.in.—Eyestrain has of late years been much dwelt upon as a cause of the pro- longed ill-health which many well-known scien- tists and literary men have suffered from. See Asthenopia ; etc. Fa.ce. See Abdomen, Clinical Examina- tion (Appearance of Face); Abdojien, Injuries of {Traninatic Peritonitis, Face); Arteries, Ligature (Facial); Ascites (Tuberculous Periton- itis, Appearance of Face); Asthma (Si/inptoms) ;