44 EGG be tested by placing it in a 10 per cent saline solution when it should sink, but if it float more or less near the surface it is stale. Egg Flip. See Alcohol.—Egg flip is an official ^preparation of brandy, and is known as Mistura Spiritus Vini Gallici; it is made by beating up the yolks of two eggs with half an ounce of sugar, four fluid ounces of brandy and the same quantity of cinnamon water are then added ; the dose is from 1 to 2 fl. oz. EgfOism.—A state of mind in which the personal factor is predominant, showing itself in an excessive love of self or in an extra- ordinarily high opinion of self; opposed to altruism. Egre^OrsiS.—Moi-bid wakefulness (Gr. iyprjyopa, tO watch). Egypt, See Therapeutics, Health Ke- SORTS {EiJllpt). Egyptian Anaemia.—This disease is believed to be largely due to hilharzia infection, and less often to the anhylostoma Juodenale; it is also known as Egyptian chlorosis. Ehriich's Reaction. See Diazo-Re- ACTioN; Lung, Tuberculosis (Complications, Uro-genital, Prognosis); Malaria {Benign Ter- tian Fever, Urine); Typhoid Fever ; Typhus Fever (Period of Advance). Eiiriich'S Theory. — Ehriich's Side- chain theory, which gives an explanation of the general action of toxins. See Immunity (Cause of Antagonis7n of Antitoxin to Toxin) ; Physio- logy, Internal Secretions (Toxic Action and Immunity). Eiglltll Nerve. See Brain, Physiology OF (Cranial Nerves, Eighth) ; Physiology, Ner- vous System (Medulla and Cranial Nerves). Eiioid.—Like a coil (Gr. etAw, I coil up); eiloides is "a hypertrophic disease of the skin in which it becomes rolled on itself or folded " (Syd. Soc. Lex.). Eiisen. See Balneology (Germany). Einhorn's Gastro - Diaphano- scope. See Enteroptosis (Diagnosis). Ejaculation.—The ejection or emission of fluids (especially of the semen) from the body. See Physiology, Reproduction (Semen); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op (Sterility). Elseometer.—A hydrometer for deter- mining the specific gravity of oils. Elseoptens. — Liquid hydrocarbons, which, when mixed with oxidised hydrocarbons (usually solid bodies or stearoptens), form volatile or essential oils. ElaidiC Acid.—Isomeric with oleic acid; more stable than oleic acid. Elapidas.—Land snakes of the Colubrine class ; Elaps is the " Coral snake " of the West Indies and Brazil. See Snake - Bites and Poisonous Fishes (Classification). Elastic Tissue. See Expectoration (Microscojjical Examination of Sputum, Lung Tissue, Yellow Elastic); Physiology, Tissues (Connective, Fibrous, Elastic). Elastic Webbingr. See Ulcers and Ulceration (Ambulatory Treatment, Bandage). Elastin.—A substance nearly allied to the proteids; yellow elastic tissue consists of it; elastose is the product of the peptic digestion of elastin ; it has a restricted value as a food stuff. See Physiology, Tissues (Connective, Fibrous); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Food-stuffs yielding Energy, Proteids); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology (Corium, Elastic Fibres). Elaterium. See also Cathartics; Con- stipation; Hydragogues; Pharmacology; Pre- scribing.—The sediment collected from the juice of Ecballium Elater/utn, the Squirting Cucumber. I>ose—iV~2 gr- From it is obtained the crystalline active principle, Elaterinum. Dose—iV'tV S^- Preparation — Pulvis Elaterini Compositus. Dose—1-4 gr. Elaterium is the most powerful hydragogue cathartic in the Pharmacopojia. Its action depends entirely on the contained Elaterin, and is similar to that of Colocynth but more violent. Elaterium should contain from 20-25 per cent of the active principle, but specimens vary greatly in strength, and Elaterin itself is therefore more satisfactory. In chronic renal disease with dropsy, in ascites, and even in heart disease, Elaterium, by producing large watery evacuations, often proves most useful. It may, however, cause considerable collapse, and it should only be employed when other more mildly acting remedies have been proved inefficient. Patients differ greatly in their tolerance of the drug, and opinions vary con- siderably as to the indications for its adminis- tration. Elbow-Joint, Region of, In- juries and Diseases of. Anatomical ...... 45 Fractures— Lower end of Humer us ... 45 Not communicating with Joint Communicating with Joint Epicondxjles Radius aiul Ulna .... 47 Dislocations ...... 48 Both hones Backwards Both bones Forwards Lateral Dislocation Radius or Ulna alone