481 gonorrhcf:al infection vaginal roof on both sides is depressed. The masses in the pelvis are either the tubes and ovaries matted together by adhesions, or de- finite purulent collections in the tubes or ovaries, or in both. Where definite purulent collections exist, the pus must be evacuated. The method of doing this need not be discussed here. The treatment of the cases where no pui'ulent collection exists has led to mucii controversy. The results of operation are disappointing; pain frequently persists; whereas the ex- pectant treatment by rest and suitable re- medies has given fairly good results, and should always be tried before an operation is recommended. Complete recovery may follow when gonorrhoeal salpingitis has been properly treated. It is erroneous to suppose, as some writers do, that all cases require operation. A word may be said concerning the sterility which results from gonorrhoeal infection. There may be absolute sterility, but more frequently the sterility is relative (the "one-child sterility" of Sanger). The phenomenal sterility of pros- titutes is probably due in part to the presence of adhesions fixing the Fallopian tubes and ovaries, and, further, to atrophic changes occurring in these organs as a result of pro- ceeding disease. Many prostitutes have had one child, and are afterwaixls sterile. The birth of the child may have been the cause of their adopting this mode of life, or it may have favoured the upward spread of the gonorrha^al poison. The diagnosis of gonorrhoeal cases, where the history is indefinite or imreliable, is always difficult apart from bacteriological tests. If, however, a patient who shortly after marriage develops symptoms as detailed in the illus- trative example, and who has not had any local treatment or vaginal examination, nor any miscarriage or confinement, and in whom tubercle can be excluded, the cause is probably gonorrha>a. " Latent Gonorrhosa."-—^Many writers have persisted in stating that an attack of gonor- rhoea cannot be completely cured, and although apparently cured, tends to recur after alcoholic excess or sexual indulgence. Where treatment has been ineffectual or neglected, the discharge may persist, but with suitable remedies the disease can be thoroughly eradicated. Ever and anon cases occur which are capable of producing gonorrheal infection for two or more years. I know of no case definitely authenticated in which the pus con- tained gonococci after four years. In the majority of the very chronic cases reported the proof of the presence of gonococci is incomplete. Noeggerath,^ whose statements are much ' Die latente Oonorrhoea in ireihlichen (leschleclit. Bonn, 1872. VOL. Ill exaggerated, insisted on the importance of what he termed " latent gonorrhoea." He believed that a man is never completely cured of an attack of gonorrhoea, and that that man is certain to infect his wife. It is further supposed that in cases of so-called "latent gonorrhoea" indulgence in alcohol or marital intercourse brings to life certain gonococci which are lying in a dormant state. If an attack of gonorrhaia in the male re- mains uncured, the affection is increased by indulgence in alcohol or by sexual intercourse. This, however, is a case of chronic or neglected gonorrhoea, not one of so-called latent gonor- rhoea. After a severe attack, even when the disease has been cured, a discharge, purulent or mucoid, may result after alcoholic or sexual indulgence. In such cases, however, no gonococci can be demonstrated in the pus. Where a patient has had several attacks of gonorrhoea the urethra becomes structurally altered, and although these attacks confer a certain immunity as regards the action of the gonococcus, the vu'ethral mucosa becomes un- duly sensitive to the action of other pus organisms. Any increased congestion or irrita- tion may give rise to a purulent urethritis. No gonococci are found in the pus. The great advantage which has accrued from Noeggerath's woi'k is that the medical pro- fession, and through it the public, have been educated to the importance of having an attack of gonorrhea completely cured. Further, the suffering and misery which attends gonorrhoeal infection in the female has been demonstrated by other workers, and patients are now treated in the early stages, and the diseased cured before impoi'tant internal organs are involved. The suggestion of the term "latent gonor- rhoea " has led to a deal of what may be termed specvilative pathology, which has been ridiculed by those opposed to tlie influence of micro-organisms in disease. It would be well to discontinue this term, as such cases are better named uncured, neglected, or chronic gonorrhoea. The Character of the Infection tvhich causes the Complications and Sequeke of Gonorrhoea.— This is a difficult question to decide, and in the present state of our knowledge we are unable to arrive at definite conclusions. The possibilities may be briefly stated as follows :— (1) Pure gonorrhctal infection, the result of the invasion of gonococci alone. (2) Mixed infection, the result of the invasion of pus organisms, which have developed in the mucous surface originally attacked by the gonococci. (3) Secondary infection, where the gonococci produce the complication, followed later by the 31