EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 110 not fully formed, the concha is quite distinguish- able, the anterior fusion of the maxillary pro- cesses is complete, and the face has taken on the human appearance (eyes, nose, mouth, chin). In the six weeks' embryo the upper limbs (in profile views) reach beyond the level of the heart, show the tripartite division, but are still strikingly bud-like; in the eight weeks' foetus they reach beyond the anterior margin of the chest (in profile views), show clearly their three segments and five separate digits, and are flexed at the elbows and bent upwards towards the face. Similar but less marked changes take place in the lower limbs. The anterior contour of the trunk in the six weeks' embryo shows very evident bulging due to the presence of the heart and liver; this character is not so noticeable in the eight weeks' foetus, although in it also the liver is of " relatively enormous dimensions," and reaches well into the hypo- gastric region. The epidermis at the end of the first month consists of two layers, and this two-layered stage lasts till the end of the neofoetal period; probably the outer layer of cells represents the epitrichium. The dermis is not yet differentiated into corium and sub- dermal layer; but the anlage of the mammary gland can be seen at the eighth week. The caudal projection (true tail) which attains its maximum about the thirty-fifth day (end of fifth week) becomes less and less marked during the neofoetal period, and has disappeared as a free appendage at the end of it (attainment of " human " form). During this eventful period, also, the protrusion of intestine into the um- bilical cord increases to reach its maximum about seven and a half weeks; the genital tubercle which at first lies anterior to or within the orifice of the cloaca becomes more prominent, although it cannot yet be distinguished as penis or clitoris. Such are the external changes taking place in the organism during this transition time of neofoetal life, those most noteworthy being the elevation of the head, the disappearance of the tail, and the specialisation of the face and limbs. The internal changes are no less wonderful and epoch-making. They are also numerous, and call for some kind of classification. They may be conveniently subdivided into—(1) the more marked or more typically embryonic changes, and (2) the less marked and more specially foetal changes. In the former group, I place the changes which occur in the skeleton, in the cranium and its contents, and in the pelvis and lower part of the abdomen and their viscera. In the latter group may be ranged the changes, slight in character, which take place in the organs of the thorax and upper part of the abdomen. 1. The skeletal changes.—The changes which occur in the skeleton are chiefly of the nature of commencing ossification. Ossification begins in the neofoetal epoch, to end far on in post- natal life — a developmental change late of appearance, late also of completion. At the seventh week ossific nuclei appear in the clavicle (first bone, then, to become bone); in the shaft of femur and of tibia; in the frontal, parietal, interparietal, and, perhaps, in the squamosal and palatine bones; in the bodies of the vertebrae, at any rate in the dorsal region ; and in the ribs (in this week or the next). In the eighth week the number of ossific nuclei is increased by the appeai'ance of those for the shafts of the humerus, radius, and fibula; for the nasals, lachrymals, vomer, superior maxil- laries, and malars; for most of the vertebrfe ; and possibly also for the metatarsals and meta- carpals. Ossification then has made a com- mencement at the end of the second month of intra-uterine life. The rest of the skeleton, though not ossified, is already definitely mapped out in cartilage or membrane, e.g. the skeletal pieces of the limbs. It is noteworthy that the sternum consists of two cartilaginous lateral halves, still separate; and that the neural arches have not yet met on the dorsal side of the spinal cord. The condition of the spinal cord may be referred to here. It equals in length the vertebral column, the lumbar and cervical enlargements are indicated, the central canal begins to contract towards the close of the neofoetal period, and the anterior fissure begins to appear and the grey matter rapidly to increase. The notochord has begun to disappear. 2. The cephalic changes.—In the region of the face during the neofoetal period there are note- worthy changes. The nasal processes grow to form the external nose; the anlage of the lachrymal duct is present at the sixth week as a solid ridge; the development of the teeth begins with the formation of the dental groove and ridge at the seventh week, and the budding of the enamel organs at the eighth week. The anlage of the submaxillary gland is present at the beginning of neofoetal life, that of the sub- lingual appear soon after, and that of the parotid at the eighth week; about the same time chondrification of the larynx begins. Of all the internal changes in the head-end of the foetus at this time, those of the brain are of most importance. The unequal growth of the various parts of the brain, which has already led to the production of mid-brain flexure and neck-bend, continues; the wonderful expansion of the cerebral hemispheres makes a com- mencement, and at the end of the period these structures have expanded to the edge of the mid-brain ; the Sylvian fissure or fossa was evident at the fifth week, marking off the frontal from the temporal lobe, and in addition there can now be seen the Bogenfurche or callosal fissure, these two being total grooves or true folds of the brain ; and the base of the