GLANDERS (FARCY) 459 uiiich caseate; these also frequently occvir in the periosteum, especially at the insertion of tendons. In acute cases the spleen is usually enlarged and soft. The liver shows cloudy swelling, and may contain nodules scattered throughout its substance. Similar changes are described in the kidney. Secondary infection may occur, more especially in chronic cases. IX. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis will depend upon the clinical appearances already referred to and the finding of the specific bacillus, the positive reaction with niallein and the Straus test. Straus Test.—Dilute the pus, secretion, or juice of diseased gland in sterile water or bouillon, and inject the fluid respectively into the peri- t(jneal cavity and subcutaneously into male guinea-pigs. If impure material is injected (nasal discharge) it is inadvisable to trust to one guinea-j^ig, as it may die of suppurative periton- itis before the characteristic orchitis has had time to develop. Where the guinea - pig is inoculated with pus containing few bacilli the orchitis may be late in appearing. Levy and Steinmetz (1895) advise to make the intraperi- toneal injection in the median line above the bladder, so as to avoid injuring the naturally large testes. Two to three days after injection the testes swell, the scrotiun becomes reddened or purplish and glossy, adhering to the subjacent tissue, it being impossible to return the testes into the abdomen. The animal dies in 4-8-15 days. At autopsy one finds a violent inflamma- tion of the tunica vaginalis, the serous membrane being covered by yellowish white granulations the size of a pin's head, the opposing surfaces being glued together by thick purulent exudate containing many glanders bacilli. The testicle and epididymis are very rarely affected. Usually this orchitis is sufficiently developed by the third or fourth day to make a diagnosis possible. Tiie value of this test has been tried very gener- ally (Straus, 1889; Hallipeau and Jeanselme, Finkelstein, Levy and Steinmetz, Kitt, and especially Nocard, 1891-96). At first its value was overrated. As Kitt pointed out, some guinea-pigs show a marked resistance, which takes away from the value of a negative result. The orchitis may be produced by other germs, B. orckiticus (Kutscher, 1896), which has the same morphological characters as B. mallei, but is distinguished therefrom by its retaining the Gram stain and behaving differently in cultures. Tlie bacillus of epizootic lymphangitis (Nocard, 1892-96) is also difi^'erent from B. mallei in these respects, consequently the staining test must also be applied to the organisms causing the orchitis. Secretion may be obtained from the nasal cavity by means of a sterile cotton swab, which is afterwards rinsed in sterile fluid for injection. Mallein Test.—When mallein is injected into a glandered horse a t^'pical reaction follows. After some hours an inflammatory swelling appears at the seat of inoculation ; it becomes hot, tense, very painful, and always extensive, at times enormous. From the borders of the swelling hot and painful sinuous lymphatic swellings radiate toward the neighbouring glands. Suppuration never occurs where the inoculation has been carried out aseptically. The tumour increases in size for 24-36 hours, persists several days, subsides slowly, and disappears in 8-10 days. With the appeai'ance of the swelling a general reaction takes place, the aniujal appears dejected, anxious, the coat ruffled and dull, breathing is accelerated, the appetite lessened. The animal shivers or has at times violent con- vulsive attacks. This constitutes the " reaction organique " of Nocard (1896), which is invariably accompanied by the febrile reaction which ajjpears within 8 hours after the injection, and reaches its maximum in 10-12 or at times 15-18 hours. The rise of temperature amounts to l-5°-2°-2-5° C, and persists for 24-48 hours. In healthy animals the injection of even mucii larger doses has little or no effect; a small, hot, ocdematous and sensitive swelling may appear at the seat of inocidation, but it disappears entirely in less than 24 hours. A reaction has lieen observed in horses suffering from melanosis, bronchiectasis, and pulmonary emphysema, but it is not typical, and should lie checked by the result of the Straus test. Where a doubtful reaction occurs the injection should be repeated after the temperature has returned to normal. To guard against error, animals should not be injected when showing fevei", and l^hey should be kept in the stable at a uniform temperature (changes in outside temperatiu-e have been observed to cause a variation of l'5°-2° C. in the rectal temperature). (Kalning, Preusse, Pierson, Babes, Eber, Heyne, Schilling, Peters and Felisch, Dieckerhoff and Lothes, Bang, Nocard, Foth, (iuinard, Teissier, Rabieux, Cadiot and Roger, Nikolsky, Schindelka, Johne, M'Fadyean, Rem- mert, Semmer, etc. etc., 1891-97). Bonome (1894) tried the effect of mallein on a man suffering from chronic glanders of the nasal mucous membranes and cervical glands. A violent general reaction followed, the tempera- ture rising after 4 - 7 hours. The mucous membrane of the nose and eyes became swollen, the pulse accelerated, the urine increased in amount. At first the reaction was proportionate to the amount of mallein used, but grew less with repeated doses ; the patient, he says, showed marked impi-ovemcnt after two months'continued treatment. X. Tkeatment.—The treatment of this dis- ease is most unsatisfactory, and nuist lie mainly symptomatic. If the case is diagnosed early, and an infective lesion found, it should be removed by the knife. The ulcers may be treated with antiseptics, and the fa"tid smell kept within bounds by some deodorizer. In chronic cases