471 GLAUCOMA tained must he estimated afterwards rather by the field of vision which is retained than by the central acuteness—that is, rather by the peri- meter than by the test types. Afode of Performing Iridectomy/.—The opera- tion consists in making an incision which opens the anterior chamber near to its periphery, and removing as completely as possible the corre- sponding portion of the iris. When the eye is painful a general anaesthetic is usually required ; in chronic non-congestive glaucoma cocaine will usually suffice, and we have then the advantage that we can control the position of the eye by letting the patient look at a lighted candle held in the requisite position. The incision is made with a small linear cataract knife. It is usually placed at the upper part of the cornea. The puncture is in the sclera at least 1 millimetre from the corneal margin; the coxmter-puncture is at a corresponding point; the distance between puncture and counter-puncture externally in a straight line is from 7 to 9 millimetres, accord- ing to the size of the cornea and the depth of the anterior chamber. When the iris lies very close to the cornea it is impossible to make a full-sized incision. In passing across the chamber the knife is kept parallel with the plane of the iris ; in cutting out the edge is turned somewhat forward, but must come out well in the sclera and raise a conjunctival flat. The iris is seized with the small forceps, drawn out through the incision, and lightly pulled to the right and to the left, so that its base may be disengaged from the cornea. It is then divided with scissors close to one end of the incision, drawn towards the other end, and if possible torn at its root; is again drawn away from the angle of the wound so that it may not be pinched and incarcerated ; and is removed with a second snip of the scissors. Some operators make the incision with a broad lance knife inste;xd of the cataract knife. In the writer's opinion, the cataract knife enables the sui'geon to make a more peri- pheral incision than can be safely made with the lance, and to modify its length and position, according to the space available, after the point has appeared in the chamber, by making the counter-puncture a little farther forward or backward as may be fovuid practicable. Some operators place the incision at the part of the circle where the iris appears to respond most readily to myotics, on the groiuid that removal of the iris-base is more likely to be attained liere than elsewhere. For a laterally placed incision the lance knife must be used. The upward incision has the advantage that it can be made with the linear knife, and that the coloboma lies under the upper lid. In the writer's opinion, it is advisable in most cases to slacken the eye by a scleral puncture im- mediately before making the iridectomy. (See later.) A successful iridectomy permanently removes the excess of tension either by causing the normal filtration outlet to reopen or by estab- lishing an abnormal one. In a recent acute glaucoma a good iridectomy permits an escape of blood from the turgid ciliary vessels, and an escape of clear fluid from aqueous and vitreous chambers. The ciliary processes recede and cease to compress the base of the iris, and with the re-establishment of the anterior chamber the filtration angle reopens : the normal outlet resumes its function. This has been proved by the examination of eyes cured years previously by iridectomy. The absence of the iris segment appears to act as a safeguard against the recur- rence of a similar blockade. In congestive glaucoma of longer standing restitution of the filtration angle is often unattainable, but even in such cases a well-made iridectomy will some- times free the ligamentum pectinatum in the region of the wound by tearing away the iris from its root. In many of these cases, however, and in chronic glaucoma also, the success of an iridectomy depends on the formation of an artificial filtration channel: a minute, perma- nent, corneo-scleral fistula. The lips of the wound, especially the inner lips, do not unite completely, but remain more or less separated by the prolapse between them of a fold or tag of iris. The aqueous continues to escape at this point into the subconjunctival tissue, and is thence absorbed. The overlying conjunctiva pre- sents an oedematous or pearly appearance, and is more or less elevated by the collection of fluid beneath it. Finger pressure carefully applied to the eye day after day during the healing process aids in keeping the tension low, and probably promotes the formation of such fistuliB. Even weeks after an iridectomy firm pressure with the finger will sometimes cause an immediate visible extrusion of fluid beneath the conjunctiva, with slackening of the globe. In chronic glau- coma, and in tlie later stages of the congestive forms, a slightly fistulous scar affords the best, if not the only, guarantee against a speedy return of the glaucoma, and is therefore a result to be desired. After an iridectomy for glau- coma there is usually a considerable flattening of the cornea in the meridian, which is at right angles with the cicatrix; in other words, there is a certain degree of ectasia in the region of the cicatrix which probably increases the distance between the ciliary body and the lens margin, and thereby lessens the danger of complete compression of the filtration angle in the future. An iridectomy may fail in several ways. Profuse hffsmorrhage within the eye at the time of the operation, or during the following few days, is perhaps the one over which we have least control. It is chiefly to be feared where the glaucoma is known to have been preceded by intra-ocular hsemorrhage; it may liappen in spite of the greatest care where there