64 ELECTRICITY wasting, glossy skin, and joint adhesions. Occasionally an ischfemic myositis results from this pressvire, in which, though the reaction of degeneration is found, there is primary and early muscular contracture. In gynaecology the method of electrolysis of fibroids was brought forward in 1882 by Apostoli as a substitute for operative treatment. The principle of ti-eatment is the introduction of a platinum sound into the cavity of the uterus, which is connected with the positive pole of a powerful galvanic battery. The negative electrode used is made of moist modeller's clay, applied to the abdomen, on it being placed a metallic contact connected with the zinc or positive element of the battery. The current must be turned on gradually after everything is in position, and great care must be takeia to avoid giving shocks, owing to the powerful currents used. At the first sitting never moi-e than 50 m.a. are given for five minutes, and if this is followed by increased pain or inflammatory reaction the treatment is considered contra- indicated. The treatment may be carried out two or thi'ee times a week, increasing the strength of current to 100, or even to 200 milliamperes. The results claimed are diminution in size of the fibroid, and cure of hfemorrhage and of the feeling of discomfort. Apostoli advocates the preliminary use of intra-uterine faradisation with the fine coil or the sinusoidal current for diagnosis, when the treatment is contra-indicated if the pain is aggravated. Interstitial and submucous fibroids, subinvolution of the uterus, chronic parametritis, are the most suitable for electrolysis ; acute uterine or periuterine lesions, suppurative parametritis or salpingitis, and cystic tumours of ovaries or tubes, contra- indicate the treatment. Continued cauterisa- tion with the positive pole of the lining membrane of the uterus is said to lead occasion- ally to atresia of the cervix. This may be obviated by once or twice using the negative instead of the positive electrode for intra-uterine vise. This effect of the negative pole in dilating a stricture has been used for strictures of the urethra, rectum, oesophagus, lachrymal punctum, and nasal duet. Weak currents only should be used, from 5 to 10 m.a. Electrolysis is also used, as in the treatment of nsevi, for destroying hair follicles on objec- tionable moles, growths of hair on the cheek or chin in women, and for inverted eyelashes or trichiasis. The kathode is also used by some ophthalmic surgeons for absorbing old corneal leucomata, 2 m.a. being used for three minutes at a time, and the constant current also for treating per- sistent blepharospasm following keratitis, anode to back of neck, and kathode over the closed lids. In optic atrophy galvanism has been said to improve vision when consecutive to neuritis. though apparently useless in primaiy optic atrophy. Paralysis of ocular muscles may also be treated by galvanism, the physician's finger making a convenient electrode. Sinusoidal Current.—The use of the alter- nating current for electric lighting provides a ready means of using in medical treatment the sinusoidal current, so called on account of the regular periodicity of the curve representing the rise and fall of electromotive force. The alter- nating current is supplied from the dynamo to the street mains at the high pressure of 2000 to .5000 volts, alternating 80 to 110 times a second in this country. By passing a current through a transformer made like an induction coil, an induced ciu-rent is generated in the outer coil, which is made of coarse wire when intended for the low resistances of cautery or lamp, and of fine wire for the high resistances of medical treatment. No automatic interruptor is re- quired on account of the current in the primary coil being already alternating. With a suitably made transformer the outer coil may be tapped at varying lengths, and a current of any required voltage obtained, up to 100 volts, at which pressure the current is brought into the build- ing. The sinusoidal current is much smoother than the faradic, though its eflects on nerve and muscle are somewhat similar. Muscular con- tractions and tetanus are produced, and a certain amount of numbing and sedative effect after a certain time. The best efitects are seen in bath treatment, the forearms or feet being placed in two separate pans of warm water with an electrode dipping into each, the current being applied for ten minutes. Doulton's 3-gallon tongue pans (3 shgs. each) serve admirably. For general application the patient is immersed in a warm bath, well enamelled inside, and flat electrodes to the spine and feet. Broadly speaking, the indications for using the sinusoidal current are the same as for the faradic. It is a smoother, less jerky current, has more pronounced sedative effect, while the muscular contractions are somewhat less vigorous. The Electric Bath.—Bath treatment is the most convenient and pleasant form of adminis- tering either galvanism, faradism, or the sinu- soidal current to the whole body as a general tonic or stimulant in neurasthenia, peripheral neuritis, ansemia, debility, rheumatism, and defective nutrition generally. A well-enamelled metal bath suffices fairly well, but an oaken or porcelain one insulates better. If the con- tinuous main current is to be employed the water taps should not be attached, but should overhang the bath, and the waste pipe should be quite short and discharge into an open gully, so as to insulate the bath from earth contact, to prevent leakage of current. Large zinc or copper electrodes are used, the anode placed behind the back and protected by a back-rest of