26 ECZEMA difficult is its dispersion. Tlie reason of this is that we are not deahng with a simple serous exudate temporarily retained, but with a neo- plastic process. The lesions are specially liable to mechanical injury (scratching) from the severe itching which accompanies their develop- ment. In this way a serous inflammation may arise out of a dry papular eczema. Dry Discoid Patch-lesions. — This form of lesion is met with in the seborrhoeic eczemas. Like the papular lesion they indicate low- pressure exudation, and show a marked tendency to circumscribed limitation of the exudate. The patches tend to fade in the centre. The discharge, which is commonly small in quantity, is remarkable for the large admixture of fat. The Erythematous Variety.—In this form vascular paralysis and cedema are the most predominant features. The exudate, instead of travelling to the free surface, gains access to the lymph and juice spaces, owing to the lax conditions of the dermal mesh. In consequence of this the surface may be hot, red, and swollen, but dry. It is liable to injury from scratching, and is in many cases accompanied by maddening irritation. Etiology and Classification.—To rightly estimate the various manifestations of eczema with a view to their causation and classifica- tion, two orders of facts must be kept clearly apart: 1 st, those appertaining to the actual injury with its inflammatory reaction; and, 2nd, those which refer to the liability of the skin to injury. Broadly speaking, eczema is always related to some surface ^ injury, although not necessarily to one of an ostensible kind. In not a few cases we can identify and name the irritant. It may be iodoform, mercury, borax, or some vegetable poison, such as primula obconica or rhus toxicodendron. But in the vast majority of instances we are completely ignorant of the exact nature of the irritant. I am not sure that the omission matters much. The irritants, whatever they may be, are only re- lative ii'ritants. For with the possible exception of the mycotic forms, nothing is better proven than that no substance has an absolute specific relation to eczema. To establish a classification of the eczemas from the standpoint of the irritant is not at present possible, and I cannot imagine that it ever will be. But it is fairly within our power to arrange the various ecze- matous forms on certain broad principles as follows :— Class I. Accidental Eczemas (trade and trau- matic dermatites): forms in which the irritant is the dominant and determining factor in the process. Class II. Intrinsic Eczemas (eczema vulgaris): ^ By the word "surface" is implied all those tissiaes which are directly concerned with the making and the maintenance of the free surface, on whose integrity and inertness the health of the skin depends. forms in which the surface-making tissues are the dominant and determining factor in the process. Class III. Mycosiform Eczemas (seborrhoeic eczema, Unna; seborrhooa corporis, Duhring): forms which are associated with the growth and multiplication of certain vegetable micro-organ- isms, aiad which commonly occur in fatty or seborrhoeic skins. We have now to consider the etiology of these several classes. I. Accidental Eczemas.—For the full list of external agents capable of producing eczematous eruptions the reader must consult the article on " Artificial Eruptions." They belong to the four groups,—animal, vegetable, mineral, and atmospheric (cold, heat, solar rays, X-rays, electricity). The effect of a surface irritant varies with (1) the nature of the irritant, (2) the mode of its application, (3) the duration of its action, and (4) the resistive power of the skin. (1) Nature of the Irritant.—Irritants may be (1) absolute, such as caustics; (2) essential., such as freezing, the result following, not immediately, but after the lapse of some time ; or (3) relative, such as light, which requires a very low degree of resistive j^ower before it can become an irritant. The intensity of a surface irritant is its own force minus the resistive force of the skin. The intensity is therefore purely relative to the surface tissues of the person affected. Consequently, in the class of accidental eczemas we cannot altogether exclude the influence of the tissues themselves. No classification can be based on the nature of the irritant. Experi- mental pathology has shown that the attempt to mark off sharply inflammations caused by mechanical and chemical noxaj from those pro- duced by bacteria must be given up (Adami). (2) Mode of Application.—The irritant may be directly conveyed into the skin by a sharp instrument, such as a lancet, or by the prick of a thorn. It may pervade the tissues of the skin, as in the case of ethereal waves of light. It may be held in contact with the skin by means of clothes. The application may be medicinal or cosmetic, or it may be applied deliberately for illegal or immoral purposes. (3) Duration of Action.—Excluding agents which directly and instantaneously kill the epidermis, all irritants require the lapse of more or less time to produce an inflammatory reaction. The trade or professional eruptions are in some cases the accumulative result of innumerable stimuli of moderate intensity, the workman re- maining to all appearances unaffected till cir- cumstances lower the resistive power of the surface tissues. (4) The Resistive Power of the Skin.—We may obtain every degree of inflammatory reaction from hypera3mia up to gangrene, according to the resistance offered to the irritant by the sur-