EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN 90 an anterior or cephalic, and a posterior or caudal. Into these limb-buds grow processes from the myotomes of a number (not less than seven) of the primitive segments. The extremities are at this time truly appendicular h^uls and not limbs, for they are quite unsegmented. The anterior ones are larger than the posterior. The limbs, as may be pointed out,' belong to the outlying parts of the developing organism and so are late in showing differentiation ; thus it comes about that in the fourth week, when other systems are far advanced in development, the extremities are only little mesoblastic outgrowths. The embryo is still somewhat translucent, so cy.- Oh Gac: Oi: ' Fio. 13.—Embryo of the fourth week. Embryo a (after His). G.V., vagus ganglion; G.Gl., ganglion of glosso-pharyngeal G.ac, auditory ganglion; G.G., Gasserian ganglion lower extremity ; Ch., chorion. that the internal parts can be dimly discerned. Thus it can be seen that there are at least twenty-seven primitive segments or somites (Mall's 26 day embryo. Figs. 14, 15, 16), and there may be thirty or more (cervical 8, dorsal 12, lumbar 5, sacral 5). There were thirty-five in Magnus' specimen. In the region of the head the outlines of the five chief divisions of the brain can be recognised, and the margins of the fossa rhomboidalis (future fourth ventricle) are distinct; the ganglia of some of the cranial nerves are also visible, and to them reference will be made below. Three or four branchial grooves and arches can be made out during this week ; they have ii-regular outlines, and are beginning to be trans- formed into the more permanent arrangement of parts. Towards the end of the week the sinus prtecervicalis is well marked, and the fourth branchial arch lies deeply in it, and largely under cover of the third arch; the third arch, also, is within the sinus. This cervical sinus is formed by the growth of the second arch over the third and fourth arches till its tissues come into contact with the body wall beyond them in the region of the faintly marked fifth arch ; thus the epiblast of these arches and clefts is buried. This change, however, is only beginning in the fourth week. From the dorsal or attached end of the first branchial or mandibular arch a pro- jection can be seen arising; this is the superior maxillary process, and it can be recognised both in the beginning and towards the end of the fourth week {e.g. in His' embryo a, and in Mall's 26 day embrj'o). The ventral or free end of the first arch is knob- like, so also is that of the second or hyoid arch; in fishes it forms the operculum for the gills, while in the human embryo, as above stated, it serves to close in the sinus prtecervicalis. It is to be noted that neither now nor at any other time do the branchial furrows or grooves in the human subject become continuous with the pharyngeal pouches; the epiblast comes into touch with the hypoblast (no mesoblast interven- ing) to form the " closing mem- brane," but there is no communica- tion between the external branchial clefts and the internal pharyngeal pouches. During this week another change in the external appearance of the facial region of the embryo occurs, the appearance of the fii'st indica- tions of a nose. On each side of the naso-frontal process which grows down between the two superior maxillary processes is an epiblastic thickening, the olfactory plate (as in His' embryo a); these two olfactory plates, after the twenty-fifth day, become hollowed out (or, rather, their margins grow up) to form the nasal pits (as in His' embryo a or in Mall's 26 day embryo). The pits, however, remain shallow during this week ; further, their margins do not gi'ow up on the side next the mouth, and so they open freely into the oral cavity. From the nasal pits the nasal mucous membrane ultiniately develops. Just outside and anterior to the nasal pits are situated the optic vesicles which are now stalked and converted into optic cups ; and each shows (at the end of this fourth week) a lens surrounded by a groove which also passes down between the superior maxillary process and the nasal pit of the same side. The lens is formed by the thickening of the epiblast at the point where the optic vesicle comes nearest to the surface. The otocyst or otic vesicle (formed from the auditory pit in the third week) has Enlarged 20 times, ff/i., otic vesicle; Fft., heart; K/.., liver; U.E.