79 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN Afes end of the first week iifter inipreguation. At this date it consists evidently of two very un- equal parts, one of which may be called extra- embryonic and the other emliryonic. Let us look first at the former part, wliich is not only much tlie lai'ger of the two, ljut is also ajapar- ently of vastly greater importance. The ovular mass (blastodermic vesicle, blastocyst, chorionic vesicle, or whatever other name is given to it) has measurements varying from l-6:0'8:0-9 mm. (Peters' specimen) to 4'0 : 3'7 mm. (Leo- pold's specimen) ; it is, therefore, a lenticular mass which lies thus in the uterine mucosa. Its outer aspect consists of a thick layer of what may be conveniently termed trophoblast, which has been probably developed from the epiblast of the ovum. In this trophoblast layer are numerous lacuna; and vacuoles, some of which, according to Peters, con- tain maternal blood. The processes or strands between the lacunae consist of nucleated cells with distinct outlines, and near their oviter ends some of them divide irregularly. In some parts the blood lacuuiie are lined by a nucleated protoplasm in which no cell-outlines are visible, syn- cytial, therefore, in nature (Peters). Much dift'erence of opinion exists as to the mode of formation of the syncytium which plays so important a part in the union between maternal and ovular tissiies. Perhaps the most likely view is that it is formed by the action of the maternal blood upon the trophoblast cells ; much of the protoplasm of the syncytium may then be of maternal origin, while its nuclei are the changed nuclei of the trophoblast {vIcU' Bandler's article, Amer: Jomii. Obst., xlvi. 145, 1902). The trophoblast, it is thought, invades the compact layer of the uterine mucosa, while the maternal blood has a corrosive action upon the trophoblast cells, convert- ing them into syncytium. It is to be noted that as yet there are no villi, but here and there processes of trophoblast make their way into hlood sinuses in the decidua. We may i^ro- visionally call the interspaces intervillous. Beneath the trophoblast is a thin layer of meso- blast, but the latter scarcely passes at all into the processes formed by the former. In Leo- pold's early ovum there is a later stage of the development of the union between ovum and decidual membranes. In it the ovular mass is covered with villi (save in one small part); some of these are branched, some simple ; some have a mesoblastic tissue core, others are pui-ely buds of syncj'tium; some merely reach the decidua (serotina and reflexa), others are slightly im- bedded in it; some show capillary formation in progress in them, others do not. Pi'obably the villi in Leopold's ovum ai-e the transformed strands of trophoblast seen in Peters' specimen. Between the villi are to be seen heaps of decidual cells, the beginnings, no doubt, of the trabecuhe which are found in later stages of development. In the intervillous spaces, also, maternal blood circulates freely, for maternal capillaries open into them. It is to be noted then, that even at so early a period as the end of the first week after im2:)reg- nation, the ovular mass is surrounded by a sort of primary placenta. The epiblastic prolifera- tion or trojjhoblast would seem (as J. C. Webster states in his Human Placentation, p. 63, 1901) to have the following functions : it acts, first, as a means of attaching the ovum to the mucosa ; second, its strands probably serve as pathfinders for the future permanent villi : third, it prob- Fio. 4.—Section tlirouyh embryonic part of Peters' early o\um. A.H., amniotic sac ; D.S., umbilical vesicle ; E.SrIi., embryo; Eli., ectoderm ; jlfe., mesoderm ; Ent., entoderm ; Sp., fissure in exo-cceloni (?). (After Peters.) ably absorbs nourishment for the ovum from the decidual tissues and from the serum and lilood with which it comes in contact. It is possible also that fragments of its syncytial covering may be broken off and travel into the maternal circu- lation (Bandler, A'^ew York Med. Journ., Ixxvii. •54, 1903), a possibility which takes on great importance when considered in connection with the development of deciduoma malignum and the pathology of pregnancy {e.<j. the causation of eclampsia, q.v.). The trophoblast, it may l)e added, may be regarded as the same structure to which the names of chorion, exochorion, pi'imitive chorion -^ decidual layer, epiblast of non-embryonic part of blastodermic vesicle, and ectoplacental formation have been given by various writers. It is matter for great regret that there is such a plurality of names; it is probable that the term trophoblast will gradu- ally supersede the others, with benefit to the