GASTRO-INTESTINAL DISORDEES OF INFANCY 416 milk, lime water itself certainly has some con- trolling influence on the diarrhoea. Rice water may be nsed as a diluent; barley water seems in some cases, especially perhaps in the younger infants, to keep up the diarrhosa, sometimes, however, it agrees well, and may be used alone for a day or two where milk cannot be given. Broths are very useful, particularly veal broth and chicken broth; mutton broth can be used where these cannot be obtained. Fat must be removed from the meat before the broth is made, and any fat in the broth must be strained off. Beaf tea is better avoided; it is apt to make the diarrhoea worse and the stools offen- sive. Raw meat juice is sometimes useful, but rather as an alternative with some other food, such as whey or barley water, than alone. Whey is particularly valuable where there is much vomiting {vide p. 408). In infants beyond the age of one year, and particularly in the more chronic cases of diarrhoea, thin arrowroot is valu- able, and seems to aid in checking the disorder. In very acute cases of diarrhoea, especially where there is much vomiting, and in choleraic diarrhoea, the drain of fluid from the child is very rapid and severe, and appears in many cases to be in part, at least, the actual cause of death. The immediate supply of fluid in siich cases is a vital necessity, and the quantity is of much more importance than the quality. If fluid with some nutritive value, such as barley water or albumin water, can be given by mouth and retained, so much the better, but if not, plain sterilised water is almost as useful: and if even water cannot be retained when given by the mouth, or cannot be taken in sufficient quantities, it must be given either by rectum, a method not always available owing to the diar- rhoea, or subcutaueously by several injections in various parts of the body. Intravenous injec- tion is not an easy procedure in infants, and as the injections may have to be repeated several times it is simpler and better to inject the water hypodermically. Albumin water has been used for hypodermic injection, but this is unnecessary and involves some risk of inflammation. It is unnecessary even to use a saline solution, simple boiled water seems to serve equally well; as much as an ounce and a half or two ounces can be injected altogether, and the injection repeated in a few hours' time if necessary. Intraperi- toneal injection of saline solution cannot be recommended; even with the most scrupulous care it is not free from serious risks, and although it has caused decided improvement within the writer's experience, it has little if any advantage over the much safer method of hypodermic injection. Whatever method of feeding be adopted, the presence of vomiting in severe cases usually makes it necessary to give the food in small quantities at short intervals; and all food given by the mouth should be either cold or only just warm. In almost all cases of acute diarrhoea, where there is much exhaustion, stimulants are neces- sary. In severe cases where there is collapse nothing is more effectual than a hot mustard bath. But unless this is given skilfully it may do more harm than good. Too often one has seen infants held with their backs under water, while the whole of the front of the chest and parts of the limbs are projecting wet above the surface of the water, simply getting chilled by evaporation. The water must be deep enough to cover the child completely up to its neck; one brimming tablespoonful of mustard (or more in proportion to the amount of water) should be mixed into thin cream with tepid water and then stirred into a gallon of water at a temperature of 100°; the infant should not be kept in the bath more than three minutes, and should then be taken out and immediately wrapped in a hot blanket, while it is rapidly dried with a hot towel without any exposure. It must then be put back to bed in a hot blanket with hot l3ottles. Sometimes it is more convenient to use a mustard pack, the infant being wrapped for about ten minutes in a sheet wrung out of mustard and water in the proportion of 1-2 tablespoonfuls of mustard to the gallon. Brandy or whisky should be given internally; in severe cases 10-15 drops may be given in a teaspoonful of water as often as every two hours to an infant three months old, and for an infant a year old as much as an ounce in the twenty- four hours may be necessary. A drop of sal volatile given occasionally in a teaspoonful of the food not only acts as a stimulant, but some- times checks vomiting; it must not, however, be used too freely, as it may aggravate the diarrhoea. An extremely useful stimulant where ex- haustion threatens to prove fatal is strychnine administered hypodermically ; \ minim of the liquor may be used for an infant three months old, and may be repeated after three or four hours. As a last resource, last because painful, brandy or ether (iTl^x.-xx.) may be injected sub- cutaueously. In simple diarrhoea a single aperient dose of castor oil or of calomel may be required to clear out the offending substance, and this alone may be sufficient; but usually medical advice is not sought until the bowels have already been open so freely that the irritant has probably already been removed, and sedatives are needed to allay the resulting catarrh. For this purpose opium is the most generally iiseful drug ; the tincture may be given in doses of n\_^-;| three times a day to an infant four months old, TTL| three times a day at six months, and ITLj. every four hours at twelve months. Bismuth is often use- ful with opium or alone, but it must be given freely ; five grains is a suitable dose for an infant a year old ; it is perhaps best given in sus-