301 FLUIDS, EXAMINATION OF PATHOLOGICAL jjractically no oxygen, and about 50 per cent cai'bonic acid, which has a lower pressure than in venous, but higher than in arterial blood. Roughly speaking, one may give the following as the average composition of human lymph :— Per cent. Water 95 Total solids 5 (a) Proteids .... 4 {h) Fats, cholesterin, and lecithin 0-4 (c) Salts 0-6 The amount and character of this fluid may be affected in various ways, e.g. by the sub- stances passing in from the alimentary canal, by nutritive or toxic products derived from the tissues, by alterations in blood-pressure, by variations in the com^josition of the blood, or from alterations in the walls of the blood capil- laries. If the fluid differ only slightly from that of the normal lymph, the most marked altera- tion being that in quantity while the specific gravity remains low, then it is spoken of as a transudate. If it be of higher specific gravity, richer in proteids and cloudy in appearance, then it is termed an exudate. The latter prob- ably arises from an increased permeability of the capillary walls resulting usually from the action of toxic substances formed in the tissues. Whether, in addition to the action on the per- meabiHty of the capillary walls, there may not also be an action directly on the secretory activity of the endothelial cells, it is difficult to say. Heidenhain referred to lymphagogues of two descriptions—those which caused a marked increase in lymph production without increase of blood-pressure, the lymph so produced being- richer in proteids than before, while there was a diminution in the percentage of these bodies in the blood plasma. Heidenhain believed that this lymph, the so-called " blood-lymph," is pro- duced by the secretory activity of the capillary endothelial cells, while Starling holds that these lymphagogues increase the permeability of the vessel walls, and that the reason for the increase in solids in the lymph is tliat there is a marked increase in the hepatic lymph which is rich in proteids. The other class of lymphagogues described by Heidenhain produced a great increase in a very watery lymph, the percentage of water botii in the lymph and in the blood being higher than before. Saline solutions are the best ex- amples of this class of lymphagogue. In this case the water is supposed to be principally de- rived from the tissues, and so Heidenhain termed it " tissue lymph." But here also there seems to be an increased permeability of the capillary walls or, as in the case of the lymphagogue sugar, an increased secretory activity of the endothelial cells. It is not desirable, even if it were possible, to view the three important etio- logical factors separately, viz. alterations in blood-pressure, composition of blood, and con- dition of capillai'y walls. One must remember that the permeability of the capillary walls, and probably also their secretory activity, may be affected by the alterations in blood-pressure as well as by variations in the composition of the blood. When the venous flow is hindered the fluid which passes out is poorer in solid con- stituents than the normal lymph. It is now known that the blood may be very markedly impoverished, especially with regard to its albuminous constituents, without the produc- tion of a transudate. Undoubtedly the most important factor is the alteration in the capil- lary wall. Such pathological transudates con- tain very frequently red as well as white blood corpuscles, and often also separated endothelial cells. The specific gravity of transudates varies but slightly, usually from 1-004 to 1-012, and the solid constituents are as a rule less in quan- tity than in normal lymph. Different pigments may be present in small quantity in transu- dates, the most important being lutein, oxy- htemoglobin, hfemoglobin, methiemoglobin, hfe- matin, and rarely htematoporphyrin. These may be identified by spectroscopic examination. It will be advisable to give at this place a short desci'iption of a method which may be employed for a more or less complete analysis of a transudate or exudate, or in fact any other pathological ffuid. (1) General physical characters of the fluid— colour, presence or absence of opalescence, con- sistence (tested by pouring out a little of the fluid), and deposit. (2) Specific gravity taken with pyknometer or urinometer. (3) Reaction. (4) Deposit. The fluid should be allowed to stand for some time, a small amount of chloro- form water being added to prevent decomposi- tion, or better, at once centrifugalised, and the deposit examined microscopically for leucocytes, pus corpuscles, red blood corpuscles, epithelial cells, crystals, etc. The supernatant fluid should be examined spectroscopically. Chemical Analysis of the Fluid.—(1) Total Solids.—Take 20 c.c. in weighed porcelain disli, evaporate to di-yness on water bath, then in vac2io over sulphuric acid, and finally in hot air bath at 105°-110° C, until of constant weight. Cool over sulphuric acid in exsiccator and weigh. State total solids in percentage. (2) Glucose, Fats, Lecithin, Cholesterin.—Ex- tract the dried residue, obtained as described above, with boiling alcohol and ether for one hour on water bath with an upright condenser fitted on to flask in order to prevent loss of fluid. Make up the alcoholic ethereal extract to a fixed volume, say 200 c.c. Divide this into two equal portions ; in one examine for glucose, in the other for fats, lecithin, and cholesterin.