234 FACIAL NERVE, PARALYSIS OF supposing that there is concomitant affection of the fifth nerve in these cases, and they adduce in support of this the fact that slight blunting of cutaneous sensibility is sometimes present on the paralysed side of the face. The electrical reactions of the affected muscles are such as are characteristic of a peri- pheral lesion, so that the reaction of degenera- tion may be present in typical form {vide Elec- tricity). The exact mode of behaviour to electricity naturally varies with the severity of the affection of the nerve, but in a pronounced case the nerve loses its faradic aud galvanic irritability, so that in the course of ten days or a fortnight no response can be obtained on stimulating the nerve with either form of current. In the first two or three days which follow the appearance of the paralysis there may be no loss, or even a slight increase in the irritability of the nerve. In cases in which the affection of the nerve is less severe there may only be a diminished response to faradism and galvanism when the nerve is excited, and yet there may be a quali- tative change noted on excitation of the muscles with galvanism, in that ACC may be greater than KCC—the partial reaction of degenera- tion. This subject is further considered under " Electricity." Contracture.—Some contracture and a tend- ency to overaction may result on the affected side in any case of facial palsy, but more especially when the paralytic defect has been severe. It may prove sufficient to re-establish symmetry in the old, or to produce deformity in the young, so that if viewed during repose the more pronounced furrows on the affected side may lead to the healthy side being re- garded as paralysed. This mistake may also be made in consequence of the fact that slight voluntary movements may not only begin on the affected side, but may be more marked on this side; but if the patient is made to perform the movement more vigorously the true side of the palsy is at once revealed, in that, although the affected side may move first, the ultimate result of movement is greater on the unaffected side. The tendency to overaction is well seen in the sphere of one group of facial muscles when the patient brings another group into action. On closing the eyes tightly the zygomatici overact and draw the angle of the mouth outwards, while on smiling, the eye on the affected side is almost closed by the overaction of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Spontaneous twitchings of the affected muscles may occur from time to time, Scheme to illustrate the con- nection of the facial nerve. and the reflex excitability of the muscles is increased. Different Types op Facial Paralysis and THEIR Diagnostic Significance.—In some cases of facial palsy, apparently of peripheral origin, only some of the muscles supplied by the nerve are affected. The muscles which notably escape or suffer much less in degree than others are the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator super- cilii, and frontalis, and in a smaller proportion of cases the orbicularis oris. It is, moreover, a common experience that in the process of recovery from facial palsy these are the muscles that recover first. Then again, with faradic reaction otherwise abolished in the muscles sup- plied by the affected facial nerve, there may, nevertheless, be a varying amount of response to faradism in the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis, or in the orbicularis oris. These facts detract from the value that certain partial affec- tions of the nerve are supposed to have as indi- cations of the nuclear origin of the disease. There is evidence that though all the facial muscles receive their nerve-supply through the seventh cranial nerve, only some of the nerve- fibres appear to be derived from the nucleus of this nerve, others coming from the nuclei of the third and twelfth cranial nerves. This is sug- gested by the fact that with affection of the third nucleus the orbicularis palpebrarum has been paralysed in conjunction with the muscles supplied by the third nerve; that with de- generation of the hypoglossal iiucleus in bulbar paralysis the orbicularis oris is paralysed in conjunction with muscles supplied by the twelfth nerve; and that in congenital facial paralysis, which is supposed to be due to an affection of the facial nucleus, the orbicularis oris escapes. Apart from these rare cases just referred to, nuclear facial palsy dependent on degenerative changes in the cells only occurs in association with similar affection of other ci-anial nerve nuclei, notably the hypoglossal, motor fifth, and oculo-motor. Pontine Lesions.—As has already been said, lesions of the pons may give rise to facial palsy. When this is the case, other cranial nerves are also affected, as a rule, notably the fifth or sixth, and less commonly the eighth. The facial paralysis that results may or may not be of peripheral type, according to whether or not the lesion is in the lower half of the pons, for it is only when the facial nucleus or the emergent roots of the nerve are involved that this type of paralysis is present. Such cases are usually further characterised by alternate hemiplegia, in which the face is affected on the side of the lesion and the limbs on the opposite side. When the sixth nucleus is also involved there is inability to turn the eyes to the side of the lesion, whether they be also conjugately turned to the opposite side or not.