FAUCES 260 Fauces. See Diphtheria {Clinical His- tory, Faucial Diphtheria); Malingering {Di- gestive System, Faucial Ulceration from use of nitric acid); Palate {Anatoviy) ; Pharynx, Examination of ; Pharynx, Diseases of ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Structure of Alimentary Canal). Favus. Clinical Features . . . .260 Etiology . . , . . . • 260 Microscopic Examination . . .260 Diagnosis ...... 261 Prognosis ...... 261 Treatment ...... 261 See also Nails, Affections of the {Parasitic Diseases, Favus); X-Rays {Rontgen Ray Thera- peutics, Skin Diseases). Favus (from favus, a honeycomb), also known popularly as "honeycomb" ringworm, is a disease of the skin caused by the growth on it of a fungus, the Achorion Schonleinii. It affects especially the hairy scalp, but may occur on any part of the cutaneous surface, and in one case (Kaposi) it attacked the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines and led to death. The disease is curiously capricious in its geographical distribution, being common in Scotland, France, Russia, and Poland, while it is comparatively rare in England, Germany, America, Austria, and Italy. Subsequent to the expulsion of the Jews from Russia a number of cases were noted in London, but it does not appear to have spread to any extent to the local inhabitants. Its first evidence is usually a variable amount of scaling on the surface, or if it occurs on the non-hairy skin this scaHness may be replaced by a moist dermatitis, which may assume a rounded form closely resembling ringworm. Exceptionally this eruption may be pustular. After two or three weeks the typical cups or scutula may make their appearance. These are noted at first as little dull yellow points beneath the superficial layers of the epidermis, and are often pierced in the centre by a hair, for obviously the facilities for quiet uninterrupted growth are greatest in the hair follicles. The scutulum gradually enlarges, the epidermis over it gives way, and the typical sulphur yellow colour becomes more and more apparent. The scutula usually reach a size of from to ^ of an inch, and in cases of the ordinary type of severity they press on adjacent ones, their edges are flattened, and the resemblance to a honey- comb becomes very evident. If the case is neglected, the scalp is com- pressed between the accumulated scutula and the bony cranium, with the result that the hair-roots are permanently destroyed and the skin undergoes a species of cicatricial atrophy. If, on the other hand, the head is kept free of crusts, the growth of the hair is not inter- fered with and no baldness results. The affected hair has, however, a dull, lustreless appearance, and is often appreciably lighter in colour than the healthy hair in the neighboux'- hood. Etiology. —• The fungus which causes the disease was first demonstrated by Schonlein of Berlin, who in 1839 published a very brief note with a small drawing of the fungus, and subsequently in honour of his discovery the fungus was named the Achorion Schonleinii. The presence of the fungus in the crusts was soon recognised by observers elsewhere, and Gruby of Vienna (1841) and Hughes Bennett of Edinburgh (1842) confirmed the discovery and published excellent accounts of the fungus, Bennett's plates being exceedingly accurate, and his account of the seat of the scutulum entirely correct. He was, however, curiously loath to recognise the fungus as the cause of the disease, which he regarded as a " manifesta- tion of tubercle." Both he and Gruby carried out numerous experimental inoculations, the latter on plants, reptiles, birds, and human subjects, with one successful inoculation—on a plant. Bennett's experiments were on human subjects—his patients, his students, and him- self—and were all unsuccessful. Recent experiments have, however, been more successful, and have demonstrated beyond all doubt that the fungus is the cause of the disease. As an example, we may take that of Winklereid Williams, who inoculated himself on the leg with pure cultures of the fungus, care being taken to irritate the skin and to keep the fungus in contact with the irritated surface. In three days signs of inflammation appeared ; on the fourth there was an eruption of vesicles. After the ninth day minute yellow points began to appear, most, but not all of them, in relation to hair follicles, and these gradually grew into typical scutula. The disease is found in several of the lower animals, and it is probably from the mouse, through the cat, that the disease is conveyed to children. In mice the pressure effects of the scutula are ver}' great, and lead to erosion of the bones of the cranium and to a fatal termination. The disease also occurs in hens and pigeons, but only exceptionally in horses and cattle, which are so frequently attacked by ringworm. Microscopic Examination. — It usually suffices to mount a portion of the scutulum in a drop of liq. potass. After it has stood for some time the cover should be pressed on the slide so as to spread the material into a thin layer. A portion of scutulum examined in this way is found to consist almost entirely of fungus. Long filaments form a species of felt- work, among which the shorter portions com- monly described as "spores" are evident.