84 EMBRYOLOGY, HUMAN and contain much desquamated epithelium. Here and there are extravasations of blood. The relations of the ovum to its membranes are well seen in Guicciardi's fifteen days' specimen (Fig. 9). The mode of attachment of the chorionic vesicle to the reflexa and serotina is such as has been already indicated. Possibly the villi are even now becoming more numerous in relation to the serotina than to the reflexa, indicating the commencement of the differen- tiation of the chorion into a villus-carrying part (chorion frondosum, placental part) and a portion which is bare (chorion leeve, non- placental part). As yet, however, there is a circulation going on all round the chorionic vesicle (in its reflexal as well as in its serotinal part), and no indication of a limitation of it to any one area. The villi are covered with syncytium with Langhans' layer underneath, and in their mesoblastic cores capillaries can be clearly seen. In Guicciardi's specimen {Ann. di ostet., xxiv. 176, 1902) only a few villi were vascularised. With regard to the structures inside the chorionic vesicle in the third week, it has to be noted that the amnion is at first a thin )' membrane springing from the body of the iv embryo round the origin of the umbilical \ vesicle, ilt, therefore, surrounds the back, sides, and cephalic and caudal ends of the embryo, but has no relation as yet to tln' umbilical vesicle (or yolk-sac) and to tlu' part of the embryo which communicates with that vesicle. It is closely applied to the embryo, there being as yet little liquor amnii. During the third week the amniotic fluid increases relatively in amount, | but even at the end of the week the membrane is not far removed from the embryo, and does not surround the umbilical vesicle and scarcely covers the heart. In its microscopic characters the amnion about this period shows a diff'eren- tiation : there is an epiblastic layer of somewhat endothelial cells as before, but the mesoblastic tissue now consists of an outer layer similar in ' appearance to the epiblast, called the meso- thelium, and of an inner homogeneous matrix next to the epiblast layer. Embryo at the Beginning of the Third Week For our knowledge of the appearances of the human embryo, about the beginning of the third week after impregnation, we are indebted ! to the study of the specimens of J. KoUmann, of C. S. Minot (Nos. 195 and 14.3), of His j (Lg, Sch. 1, and L), of A. Rondino, and of I Coste. The embryo now measures from 2'2 mm. \ to 2-5 mm., and is still almost insignificant in size when compared with the chorionic vesicle and the decidual membranes; but it already shows a marvellous advance in the differentiation of its parts (Fig. 10). The cephalic and caudal ends are quite recognisable, and both of these pro- ject a little beyond the umbilical vesicle, which is now no longer attached to the whole length of the ventral aspect of the embryo. (In Koll- mann's 2'2 mm. embryo the umbilical vesicle was attached for a distance of 1*5 mm., leaving the head to project 0'58 mm. and the tail Fig. 10.—Embryo at the beginning of the tliird week. Embryo Lg. (After His.) 0-3 mm.) The cephalic end is already showing- signs of enlargement, a feature which is so characteristic at later stages of embryogenesis, and is bending slightly towards the ventral aspect. There may be no branchial arches (KoUmann's embryo), or there may be two (Minot's, Nos. 143, 195) or three (Goste's). No indication of the eye or ear may be found (Kollmann's embryo); or the optic vesicles may have already grown out, and the epiblastic invagination which is to form the otocyst or auditory vesicle may have begun to form (His' Embryo Lg). The oral invagination can be seen, but the oral plate still separates it from the large primitive pharynx; below it is the first branchial arch, which by and by becomes the mandible, and below that is the first branchial slit, or rather groove, with the second or hyoidean branchial arch. The brain (vesicular in character) forms a large part of the whole embryo : there is a fore-brain from which the optic vesicles have grown out; at the junction between the fore- and mid-brain there is a sharp bend forwards (almost at a right angle) of the former part; the hind-brain is relatively very long, and near its centre lies the open invagina-