GOUT 496 mother by a tuberculous father was a confirmed asthmatic. Reproductive System.—The female pelvis is rich in connective tissues, its vascular supply is considerable and subject to periodic variations, and its nervous system is more than usually important and complex. Surely we have here a happy hunting-ground for the manifestations of a disease whose end products are deposited in connective tissues, and in whose life - history nervous and vascular disorders occupy a pro- minent place. Yet this does not seem to be the case. A reference to the indices of not a few authoritative gyntecological works either reveals no niention whatever of the disease or the barest possible reference to it. One cannot help wondering whether this position is arrived at after a careful study of the possible influences of diathetic conditions on the pelvic viscera, or whether the possible importance of such influence is entirely overlooked. The admitted difficulties in connection with its study hardly warrant the latter position. " If the disorders of the uterus and its appendages were studied more particu- larly with reference to diathetic conditions I am of opinion that some new chapters in their pathology might be written" (Duckworth). This opinion is well worthy of the careful con- sideration of those w-ho have the special clinical experience necessary to advance our knowledge of this part of the subject. Muscular and Connective Tissues. — The palmar fascise and less frequently the plantar fasciae are occasionally the seat of gouty dis- orders (see Dupuytren's contraction under " Fascia " in this vol.), and Jonathan Hutchinson has drawn attention to a juvenile form of Dupuy- tren's, in which the induration and contraction are limited to one or more digits, and does not involve the palm. The same author has also drawn attention to the induration in the fibrous structure in the dorsum of the penis as being- allied to Dupuytren's contraction, both condi- tions having a relationship to inherited gout. It may be well to refer here to the occurrence of nocturnal priapism in elderly males affected with irregular gout. Probably some cases of localised myalgic pains, usually regarded as muscular rheumatism, are in reality of gouty origin. Lumbago is so to be regarded in a proportion of cases, and the aches and pains, of a dull and aching or of a sharp and fugitive character, experienced from time to time in the neighbourhood of joints or other tissues which have been the site of in- jury at an earlier period, are in all probability of a similar nature. The important part played by the structures in bursas has already been referred to. Etiology Previous to the year 1793 the views enter- tained as to the etiology of the disease are only of historical interest. In that year Murray Forbes suggested that gout developed through an excess of uric acid depositing itself in the tissues. A few years later (1797) Wollaston demonstrated the presence of uric acid in gouty deposits, and from that time until the present, the existence of a definite and im- portant relationship between gout and uric acid has never been seriously questioned. But as to the exact nature of this relationship we at the present time know little more than the opinion expressed by Murray Forbes more than a hun- dred years ago. In 1850 Garrod made his classical contribu- tions to the study of the disease. His most important observation was the discovery of uric acid in the blood, but many of his other observa- tions— clinical, pathological, and therapeutic— yet rank as authoritative even at the present day, and all writers and workers on the subject are under a deep obligation to his standard work. For an adequate appreciation of his work the reader is referred to his treatise on the subject. Here 1 can only indicate a few points of import- ance with regard to his views on the etiology of the disease, and more especially those dealing with the acute paroxysm. Recent methods of investigation have latelj' shown that some of his conclusions require revision and modification. From his researches he formulated the following conclusions regarding the acute attack :— i. The alkalinity of the blood is lowered. ii. The amount of uric acid in the blood is greater than in the interval. iii. The excretion of uric acid falls, this being- associated with uric acid retention in the tissues, depending on a diminution of the excretory capacity of the kidneys. These three conclusions formed the basis of his theory of the causation of the phenomenon of the acute attack. In 1898 the views as to the diminution of the alkalinity of the blood and to the increased amount of uric acid present in the blood during the acute attack were seriously called in question by Magnus Levy. This observer made an ex- tended series of observations in seventeen cases of gout, using the most modern and reliable methods, and in no case did he find evidence of a diminution in the alkalinity of the blood or of an increase in the amount of uric acid as com- pared with the interval between .the attacks. Levy's observations on these points appear to be conclusive. With regard to the third point the writer has recorded a series of observations, the results showing an actual increase of uric acid excretion during the attack. Similar observations have been made by Pfeiffer, Levy, Badt, His, and others. Taken collectively, these investigations seem to prove that the three aforementioned conclusions are erroneous, and they therefore indicate that Garrod's views as to the etiology of the acute attack must be