OF THE OS ILIUM. 95 cending oblique, and the transverse muscles of the belly, with the oluta'us maximus, quadratus lumborum, and latissimus dorsi, have their origin. The ends of the spine are more prominent than the surface of the bone below them; therefore are reckoned processes. From the interior spinal process, the sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris muscles take their rise, and the outer end of the doubled tendon of the external oblique muscle of the ab- domen, commonly called Fallopius’s or Poupart’s Liga- ment, or Crural Arch, is fixed to it.—The inside of the poste- rior spinal process, and of part of the spine forward from that, is made flat and rough, where the sacro-lumbalis and longissi- mus dorsi rise; and to its outside are fixed ligaments, extend- ed to die os sacrum and transverse processes of the fifth and fourth vertebrae of the loins *. Below the anterior spinal process another protuberance stands out, which, by its situation, may be distinguished from the former, by adding the epithet of inferior, from which the rectus cruris -f* has its origin Besides these two anterior processes, the bone is hollowed where the beginning of the sartorius muscle is lodged. Be- low the posterior spinal process, a second protuberance of the edge of this bone is in like manner observable, which is close- ly applied to the os sacrum. Under this last process there is a large niche in the os ilium; between the sides of which, and the strong ligament that is stretched over from the os sacrum to the sharp-pointed process of the os ischium of the recent subject, a large hole is formed, through which the musculus pyriformis, the great sciatic nerve, and the posterior crural vessels pass, and are protected from compression. The external broad side or dorsum of the os ilium is a lit- tle hollow towards the fore-part; farther back it is as much raised; then is considerably concave; and, lastly, it is con- vex. These inequalities are occasioned by the actions of the muscles that are situated on this surface. From behind the uppermost of the two anterior spinal pro- • Weitbrecht, Syndesmolg. sect, 4, § 39, 40, 46, 47. + Rectus cruris, Alb. X Baker, Curs, osteolog. demonstr. 3.