OF THE OS PUBIS. 401 cartilage. This is very necessary to prevent the head of the femur from slipping out of its cavity at this place, where the whole weight of the body bears upon it. Notwithstanding this provision against dislocation, the head of the thigh bone is sometimes thrust upwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the os ilium. At the internal lower part of the acetabulum there is a breach in the bone, across which a ligament is placed in the recent subject; under which a large hole is left, which contains fat, cellular substance and vessels. This seems intended for admitting of more extensive mo- tion to the thigh inwards: For if the bony brims had been perfect, the neck of the thigh-bone must have struck upon them, when the thighs were thrown across each other. The lower internal part of the acetabulum is depressed below the cartilaginous surface of the upper part., and is not covered with cartilage; into the upper part of this particular depres- sion, where it is deepest, and of a semilunar form, the ligament of the thigh-bone, commonly, though improperly, called the round, is inserted. It seems necessary to add a few remarks upon the manner in which the bones of the pelvis are connected to each other. There is one part of the os sacrum that is covered with a cartilage, and which corresponds exactly to a portion of the surface of the os ilium, and which, in the recent subject, is actually glued to it; so that though the capsular ligament be divided, the os innominatum cannot be separated from the os sacrum, without using considerable force. Owing to the extent of this surface, and the general shape of the os sacrum and ossa innominata, these bones are almost immovrable. There is something altogether singular in the connexion of these bones, much more if the sacrum is in- cluded within the capsular ligaments. There is a space be- tween these, which is filled with a red fibrous substance, which does not bear a resemblance to any other part of the human frame. In short, judging from the structure, there can be no great degree of motion between the bones of the pelvis, with- out a disease, and such a separation as would be very sensibly 2