123 OF THE SKULL. perfectly marked, and the peculiarities of one nation slide as it were imperceptibly into those of another. To form a classification of the different races of men, free from all objections, would require a great number of specimens, and a knowledge of thecustoms of nations; for some nations, by pressure artificially applied in early life, materially alter the natural conformation of the skull: disease also materially al- ters the form of the cranium. The rickets, diseases of the sinuses of the head, and lues venerea, bring about a most remarkable change in the natural form of the head. I shall never forget the change produced on the profile of a boy of 10 years of age, by the sinking of his nose, which rendered his profile like that of an African Negro. Upon dissection, the portion of the nose and palate bones were found almost destroyed, as also the uvula and ve- lum palati. It merits notice, that there was no distinct evi- dence of the boy having been contaminated by the venereal poison. Of the Surfaces of the Shull. The outer surface of the upper part of the skull is very smooth and equal, being covered only by the thin serous membrane, the pericranium, the thin frontal and occipital muscles, their tendinous aponeuroses, cellular substance, a few small bloodvessels, nerves, and the skin ; but on the outer sur- face of the base of the skull there are many risings, depres- sions and foramina, for the origin of the numerous muscles connected with it, and for the bloodvessels and nerves that pass through and near to it. The inner surface of the upper part corresponds exactly with the surface of the dura mater; there are a number of furrows disposed somewhat like to the branches of a tree, in which the branches of the arteries of the dura mater are lodged, and there are also pits of differ- ent sizes and forms, which correspond to corresponding emi- nences on the surfaces of the brain and dura mater. Over these pits, the skull is much thinner than any where else, and often rendered diaphanous, the two tables being closely np-