ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 286 on the internal malleolus, and also the larger external sur- face, which is articulated with the external malleolus. Round the base of this head there is a rough fossa; and, immediate- ly before the head, as also below its internal smooth surface, we find a considerable rough cavity. The lower surface of the astragalus is divided by an irre- gular deep rough fossa; which, at its internal end, is narrow, but gradually becomes broader, as it stretches obliquely out- wards and forwards. The smooth surface, covered with cartilage, behind this fossa, is large, oblong, extended in the same oblique situation with the fossa, and concave for its conjunction with the os calcis. The back-part of the edge of this cavity is produced into two sharp-pointed rough processes, between which is a depression made by the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The lower surface before the fossa is convex, and composed of three distinct smooth planes. The long one behind, and the exterior or shortest, are articulated with the heel-bone; while the internal, which is the most convex of the three, rests and moves upon a cartilaginous ligament, that is conti- nued from the os calcis to the os scaphoides; without which ligament, the astragalus could not be sustained, but would be pressed out of its place by the great weight it sup- ports; and the other bones of the tarsus would be separated. The fore-part of this bone, which is smooth, is united to the os naviculare. The astragalus is articulated in such a manner with the malleoli, that the foot may be bent and extended, but can be moved laterally only in a slight degree. When the foot is bent, so far as it commonly is wrhen we stand, the head of the astragalus is sunk between the malleoli, and the liga- ments are tense; it therefore cannot be moved sideways; but when the foot is extended, the astragalus can move a little to either side, and with a small rotation. J3y this contrivance, the foot is firm, when the weight of the body is to be sup- ported on it; and when a foot is raised, w7e are at liberty to direct it more exactly to the place w-e intend next to step upon.