ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 22 pores of the bones, where probably they are continued, to support the marrow distributed through the substance of the bones ; and along with them vessels are sent, as from the ex- ternal periosteum, into the bone *. These processes being of a very delicate texture, the adhesion of this membrane to the bone is so small, that it commonly separates more easily from the bone than from the marrow contained in the bone. The bones are united to each other by ligaments, excepting the shoulder-blades, and the bones which support the tongue. Of the Forms, Size, Situation, Prominences, and Uses of the Bones. There is a considerable difference with regard to the magni- tude, figure, situation, connection, and uses of the -bones. The bones may be arranged under three classes—the broad, the cylindrical, and those of an irregular figure. Many bones have protuberances, or processes *)*, rising out of them. If a. process stands out in a roundish ball, it is cal- led caput or head. If the head is flattened, it obtains the ap- pellation of condyle. A rough unequal protuberance is cal- led tuberosity. When a process rises narrow, and then be- comes large, the narrow or small part is named cervix or ncclc. Long ridges of bones are called spines. Such processes as terminate in a sharp point, have the general name of corona j, or coronoid, bestowed on them, though most of them receive particular names, from the resemblance they have, or are ima- gined to have, to other substances, e. g. mastoid, styloid, an- choroid, coracoid, spinal, §c. Such processes as form brims of cavities, are called supercilia §. The eminences and depressions in the bones, are more con- spicuous in the male than in the female, and generally bear a ratio to the kind of life of the individual. In men that take a • Winslow, Exposition anatom, des Os frais, sect. 82, 83. + ’ATToipvo-iiq, ucCpvcruq, 7rgo/2hmput, Excessus, explanatio, tuberculum, gibbus, eminentia, produclio, extuberantia, projectura, anascentia. + Rostra, glandes. § ’'Ttvij, Labra.