OF THE GALL-DUCTS 571 along the posterior and inferior part of the second turn of the duodenum, and then perforates the muscular and villous coat of the duodenum, about four inches distant from the pylorus. At its termination, there is a distinct prominent orifice, which is somewhat rounded above, and is bounded on each side by a narrow descending portion, as has been very faith- fully represented in Santorini’s 12th Plate. The ductus communis cboledochus is not of an uniform di- ameter, but somewhat contracted, where it passes obliquely between the coats of the duodenum. The oblique passage of the common duct through the coats of the duodenum, has the same effect as a valve, pre- venting- the reflux of the bile, and even of air from the intes- tine; for the more the intestine is distended, the more the re- flux of the bile is resisted. Of the Coats of the Gall-Ducts. The coats of the biliary ducts are thicker than those of the hepatic artery or vena portarum. There are three coats proper to the gall-ducts:—an exter- nal fibrous coat; an internal mucous lining; and, between these, a few pale coloured and very thin fibres may be dis- tinguished ; but these have neither the most usual reddish colour, nor the regular fasciculated appearance of muscular fibres. Such muscular fibres are very conspicuous in the horse; and, in the dog, the muscular fibres of the gall-ducts are quite obvious. They pass in a longitudinal direction. Some authors, who have entertained doubts as to the mus- cular structure of the gall-ducts, have affirmed that these ducts possess neither irritability nor contractility, because these are often much enlarged, in consequence of repeated fits of gall-stone jaundice. But the heart, bladder, intestines, ureters, and other canals, which have been universally admit- ted to have muscular coats, are also occasionally much en- larged when any impediment prevents free exit to their contents; and, besides, I have seen these ducts irregularly contracted upon the gall-stones, in two or three different places, in the same manner as the ureters are contracted upon