340 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMT. Of the Cartilages and Ligaments of the Knee-Joint. The knee-joint is formed by the contact of the condyles of the thigh-bone with the head of the tibia, and back-part of the rotula. Each of these bones has its proper articular cartilage, and they are kept together by strong ligaments, which prevent the joint from being bent or extended to too great a de- gree. A strong capsular ligament is connected to the circumfe- rence of the lower end of the thigh-bone, and is fixed to the head of the tibia, and the margin of the articulating surface of the patella, so that the patella forms a part of the capsule of the joint. This ligament is strengthened by lateral ligaments, by a tendinous aponeurosis from the tendons of the extensor mus- cles, and by the general tendinous aponeurosis of the limb. There ai'e two lateral ligaments, which are external to the general capsular ligament; the longer and stronger extends from the tubercle, about the external condyle of the thigh- bone, to the head of the fibula, and is covered by the tendon of the biceps; and behind this there is a shorter and thinner ligament similarly situated. The internal ligament is of considerable breadth ; it passes between the internal condyle of the thigh-bone. The tibia be- coming broader as it descends, is inserted into the edge of the internal semilunar cartilage, and into the upper and inner part of the head of the tibia. This ligament, at its insertion, is covered by the tendons of the gracilis, semitendinesus, and sartorius muscles. There are also irregular bands of ligamentous fibres, which extend between the condyles of the thigh-bone, and the upper and inner part of the head of the tibia. A few of these fibres, which descend obliquely from the external condyle of the thigh-bone to-the tibia, are stronger than the others, and have been said, by Winslow, to form the ligamentum posticum. There is a ligament connecting the patella to the tuberosity at:the upper and fore-part of the tibia; and, in some subjects,.