ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 301 Of the Articular, or Obducent Cartilages. In order to render our movements easy, the articular sur- faces of the bones are incrusted by cartilage,—a substance of a compact structure, and of an elastic nature; and, to prevent the bad effects of friction, these cartilages are constantly be- smeared by a fluid called Synovia. Thus the articulating surfaces forming the joints, are constantly and accurately ap- plied to each other, the effects of abrasion are obviated, and we are placed upon springs. Wherever it is necessary to combine considerable flexibility and strength, there are a num- ber of joints at short distances from each other; so that, though the motion in each joint is comparatively small, the sum of the movements of the several joints is very consider- able. The spine and feet afford most striking illustrations of this structure. In the former, by the number of joints, and intimate manner in which the component bones are united to each other, firmness, flexibility, and latitude of motion are combined There is no part of the human frame which is more wonderfully constructed than the foot. Owing to its peculiar mechanism, several very opposite properties are combined:—Considerable strength, which is requisite for the support of the weight of the body, and often of an additional burden,—flexibility, that it might be adapted to the inequali- ties of the surface of the ground,—elasticity, that the jar might be averted, to which we otherwise should have been exposed in dancing, running, jumping; and which also contributes to as- sist us in walking, or springing from the ground,—and protec- tion to the muscles, bloodvessels, and nerves included in the sole, lest they should be pinched in our erect position. These several properties are even more obvious in the con- struction of the foot of the horse ; and especially the means by which the effect of the great weight of the animal’s body upon the feet is counteracted. In addition to the elastic arti- cular cartilages, there are, on the inner side of the hoof, five or six hundred very elastic laminae, which grow from the cof- fin-bone. The frog of the foot is also a very elastic substance ; and there is a quantity of fatty substance placed between the