70 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. transverse processes of the first vertebra. Thus, there is no risk of the blood being interrupted in its course. The spinal process of this vertebra is thick, strong, and short, to give sufficient space for the origin of the musculi recti major es, and obliqui infer tores, and to prevent these and other muscles being bruised, whilst the head is pulled back- wards. This second vertebra consists, at the birth, of four bony pieces: Besides the three pieces, common to all the vertebra*, the tooth-like process of this bone is ossified in its middle, and is joined as an appendix to the body of the bone. Lest this appendix be bended or displaced, nurses ought to keep the heads of new-born children from falling too far backwards, by stay-bands, till the muscles shall have attained strength suffi- cient to prevent that dangerous motion. In consequence of violence, the transverse ligament which retains the dentiform process in its place, has sometimes been torn, in consequence of which, it immediately falls backwards, and, by its pressure on the spinal cord, proves fatal. The head is moved forwards and backwards on the first vertebra, while the atlas performs the dreumgyratio upon the second vertebra ; the inferior oblique processes of the atlas turning on the superior oblique processes of the second, and its anterior arch revolving on the tooth-like process, by which the perpendicular ligament that is sent from the point of the tooth-like process to the occipital bone is twisted, while the lateral ligaments that fix the processus dentatvs to the sides of the first vertebra, and to the os oedpitis, are very differently affected; for the one upon the side towards which the face is turned by the dreumgyratio, is much shortened and lax, while the opposite one is stretched and made tense. The la- teral ligaments prevent the head from turning any farther round on this axis, and are the proper moderators of the dr- cumgyratio of the head. As these ligaments are weaker or stronger, longer or shorter, and more or less capable of being stretched in different individuals, the head may be revolved to a greater or less extent. The first vertebra also may be moved a little to either