OF THE BILE. 565 part of tiie duodenum as usual, but did not go to the liver. The hepatic artery teas much larger than it usually is found to be, and entered the liver as it usually does. The gall- bladder had nothing remarkable in its appearance : its size was in proportion to that of the liver, and it contained rather more than half an ounce of a bright yellow fluid similar to the bile: it was not however submitted to any other test but that of sio-ht The ductus communis choledochus was formed as usual, and entered the duodenum at the usual place. The spleen was small, hard, and had scrophulous tubercles on its surface. The lungs had some tubercles, but not in a state of ulceration. The heart was sound. The body of the girl was rather emaciated, but not more than it might have been expected to have been, from the strongly marked scrofulous habit. Pus was found in large quantities between the dura and pia mater, which accounted for he'r death. Messrs Mainwaking and Jones of the Strand, had often attended the girl during several years of her life, and had perceived nothing remarkable in her powers of digestion, nor did they recollect any thing, after this struc- ture was discovered, different from what was usually met with in other scrofulous children. The bile is always secreted in greater abundance after a meal. This I learnt from a case I attended, in which there was an abscess in the liver, and a preternatural commu- nication between the liver and lungs, through which all the bile flowed, and was discharged by coughing; in proof of which the fa±ces were of the same whitish colour, and had as little smell, as those of a person deeply jaundiced. The quantity of bile discharged by coughing was different at different times. It was always greater after meals, and especially for an hour or two after dinner. The quantity ex- pectorated could not be measured with great accuracy, from being mixed with mucus and saliva. The whole.quantity in twenty-four hours was from ten to fifteen ounces; and, in this ease, I had an opportunity of observing the effects of certain articles of food, and in particular of acids, as wine, and of dif- ferent fruits, in increasing the quantity of bile.