ELEMENTS OF ANATOM V. 818 that the fat is lodged in the cells of the common cellular membrane. And as the fat is commonly much wasted in dropsical constitutions, it has been taken for granted that when the fat was wasted the water occupied its place. In 1762, the late Dr W. Hunter * *, after taking notice of the general opinion, that the oil of the adipose membrane is lodged in the same cavities as the water of the anasarca, says, that he had long thought differently; “ and that where- ever there is fat, he apprehends that there is a glandular ap- paratus superadded to the reticular membrane, consisting of vesicles or bags for lodging the animal oil, as well as vessels fitted for its secretion.” He then specifies his reasons for this opinion ; and, in p. 36., proposes the following query : “ From all these observations, may we not then reasonably conclude, that the oil of the cellular membrane is lodged in particular vesicles; and not, as the water of an anasarca, in the reticular interstices of parts P11 His arguments render his opinion extremely probable; but it is plain that he had not examined the structure with the microscope; by which alone the truth of it can be ascer- tained. Long before Dr Hunter wrote, and, indeed, long before he began to study, my father used to observe -f*, and in his annual courses of lectures to demonstrate, that the marrow, viewed with the microscope, looked like a cluster of pearls. To this I added the observation, that after a good injection of the vessels, a vascular membrane could be shown surround- ing each of the globules; and from which the marrow was '{ beyond doubt secreted. I afterwards found, on applying the microscope in like manner to the fat, not only of man, but of rotundas globulas colligat. Lieutaud, Ess. Anat. 1766. p. 105. Saba- tier, Tr. d’Anat. 1781, t. I. p. 14. La moelle est composee de vesicules mem- braneuses qni communiquent toutes ensemble.—P. 15. De membranes que 1 on peut distendre en souflant.—T. 3. p. 355. On sait que les cellules du tissu adi- peux communiquent toutes les unes avec les autres. Flench, Pr. Lin. Anat. 1775, p. 176. • Med. Obs. 1762, Art. ii. p. 33. ■}• See the first edition of his Osteology, 1726.