372 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. one, it follows, that the same motions performed by them, will be executed in a shorter space of time than could have been executed by straight muscles of the same length, provided we take for granted that the time in which the action of a muscle is completed bears a proportion to the length of the muscle. To support, in some measure, this supposition, we may observe, that similar actions of small animals are completed sooner than those of larger; or, if we compare the action of the multifidus spinae, which we may suppose to consist of as many short muscles as there are true vertebrae, with the action of a single straight muscle, supposed to reach from the os sacrum to the head, it is evident, that each of the several insertions of the multifidus spinae wrould, in the same times, be moved through one twenty-fourth part only of the space through which the insertion of the single long muscle must pass; and, therefore, unless we suppose the insertion of the long muscle to move twenty-four times more quickly than each of the insertions of the multifidus, it could not, in the same time, extend the trunk of the body to the same degree. 5. As the oblique muscles, in performing the same motions as straight muscles might perform, are less shortened than the straight would be, there is a saving of motion, and hence pro- bably less fatigue. 6. Two oblique muscles, by balancing each other, may pro- duce motions in a greater variety of directions than can be done by a pair of straight ones. In the first place, by acting singly and alternately, they perform the offices of straight muscles, and draw alternately the place of their insertion directly towards its origins, which are generally more distant from each other than the origins of two straight muscles. If, next, they co-operate writh equal strength, the place of their insertion is moved in the diagonal between them, as when the oblique muscles of the abdomen draw the ensiform cartilage towards the ossa pubis. 7. In the last place, each of them may act with different degrees of force, and hence move the place of their insertions in all the diagonal lines we may suppose to be drawn between