ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 314- taste, consistence, and weight; and gave the same degree of slipperiness when rubbed between the thumb and finger. When mixed with oil of vitriol, diluted with double its weight of water, both Jiquors became semi-opake, but were not coagu- lated. When two parts of these liquors were mixed with three parts of rectified spirits of wine, a portion, weighing nearly one-eighth part of the whole, was coagulated. When these liquors were brought to a boiling heat, they became less pellucid and more viscid; but the quantity of matter which clotted was very inconsiderable. When evaporated to dry- ness, they produced a tough crust, which weighed a small part only of the whole, and burnt in the flame of a candle nearly as a thin slice of horn does. 8. In some places the bursae constantly communicate with the cavities of the joints; in others they generally do so; From which we mav infer a sameness of structure. 9. To render the sameness of the structure of the bursae and capsular ligaments still more evident, I shall next minute- ly describe the appearance of the several organs which may be supposed to furnish the lubricating liquor, which, in the joints, has been called synovia; and I shall be the more par- ticular, because these parts have been generally very errone- ously described, especially by late writers, and because no au- thor has yet examined them with sufficient accuracy. Dr Davy was so polite as to examine the synovia of the ox, and the following is the result of his experiments. “ The synovia you had the goodness to give me, resembles in physical properties the white of an egg, more than any other animal fluid I am acquainted with. It is very viscid, and at the same time remarkably soft, smooth, and slippery to the touch; so that it is admirably adapted for the office which it has to perform, of lubricating the joints. It has a slight taste of common salt, and a just perceptible smell. It froths when carelessly agitated, but does not when care is taken to prevent air being entangled by its parts. (( Its chemical properties are not so similar to those of the white of an egg as its physical ones. It readily mixes with