382 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. of the Sphenoid bone, from the tuberosity of the superior Maxillary bone, and from the root of the Temporal process of the Sphenoid bone; and it passes horizontally, and is fixed into the neck and capsular ligament of the under jaw. This muscle pulls the jaw laterally; and if it be thrown into action with its fellow, the jaw is pulled forwards, by which the fore-teeth of the under jaw project before those of the upper jaw. Pterygo-Maxillaris Major, Inferior, or Pterygoideus Interims. This muscle takes its rise from the Fossa Pterygoidea of the Sphenoid bone, and from the Palate bone, and is fixed into the inner side of the angle of the under jaw, being placed nearly opposite to the Masseter muscle, to which, in figure, it bears some resemblance. This is a powerful muscle in masticating the food; it gives the lateral motion of the jaw; and, when thrown into action, in conjunction with its fellow, the jaw-bone is elevated. Mastoido-Mentalis, or Digastrieus. This is a double muscle: one part of it arises from the groove at the root of the Mastoid process of the Temporal bone ; and, descending obliquely downwards and inwards through the fibres of the Stylo-hyoid muscle, it is connected to the Os Hyoides by a thin ligament. It then passes obliquely upwards and outwards at an obtuse angle, and is fixed into the middle of the lower jaw at its lower part. By this muscle, the mouth is opened; and when the jaws are shut, the Os Hyoides is drawn towards the under jaw; and the posterior part of the muscle draws the Os Hyoides towards the Mastoid process of the Temporal bone. Dr Soemmering has stated, that if the lower jaw be fixed, this muscle tends to depress the back of the head upon the spine, and thereby to open the mouth, by elevating the upper jaw: this he states he has observed while a child is sucking. —There are some of the muscles which are fixed to the Os Hyoides, and under jaw, and also to the thorax, as the Pla- tysma Myoides: But as these muscles are subservient to other purposes, they shall be mentioned in another place.