131 OF THE OS FRONT IS. In most skeletons, we may observe one, two, or more holes, sufficient to allow the passage of a hog’s bristle through the skull. The place, size, and number of these, are how- ever uncertain : they generally serve for the transmission of small arteries or nerves. The internal surface of the os frontis, is, generally speak- ing, concave; but very irregular, in consequence of the con- volutions of the brain, except at the orbital* processes, which are convex, to support the anterior lobes of the brain. This surface is not so smooth as the external ; for the larger branches of the arteries of the dura mater imprint the lateral and posterior part of this bone. The internal surface of the bone is divided by a ridge, to which the upper edge of the falx is fixed, and this ridge is expanded into a groove, in which the anterior part of the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged. Hence the risk of the application of the trepan to this part of the skull. Immediately at the root of this ridge or furrow, there is a small hole, which sometimes pierces through the first table, and, in other skulls, opens into the superior sinus of the ethmoid bone within the nose. In it, a little process of the falx, a small artery, and sometimes a vein are lodged ; and the superior longitudinal sinus begins here. This hole, however, is often not entirely proper to the os frontis; for, in several skulls, the lower part of it is formed in the upper part of the base of the crista galli, a process of the ethmoid bone *. The os frontis is composed of two tables, and an interme- diate diploe, and is of a middle degree of thickness between the os occipitis and the parietal bones ; is pretty equally dense, excepting at the orbitar processes, where, by the action of the eye on one side, and pressure of the lobes of the brain on the other, it Is made extremely thin. Hence the fatal effects of a blow or thrust with a sword in the eye. WeTfeu informs us they killed oxen at Rome, by running a knife into the orbits. Morgagni *f has also made mention of the fatal consequences of blows on this part of the frontal bone. • Jngtus.s. Comment, in Gai.en. de Oasib. cap. 1. comment. 8. + Epiit, 51. Art. 58. I 2