ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. 212 MONGOL VARIETY. True Mongol inhabiting the deserts of Central Asia *. Colour yellow, or of an olive Hair black, coarse, straight, and thin. Head of a square form. Face broad, flat, depressed; the features as it were confluent. Forehead smooth and flat. Nose small and flat. Aperture of the eye-lids small and linear. Chin somewhat projecting. African Boschman, including the nu- merous Hottentot tribes, such as Na- maguas, &c. &c f. Colour light-yellow or olive ; it is difficult to describe; it va- ries in intensity amongst the Hottentots, but is pretty uni- form amongst true Bosehmen. Hair black, generally very short, though sometimes growing to a considerable length, and is scattered over the scalp in de- tached tufts, as in the KafTre. General outline of the head much resembles the Mongol; it is broad and square. Face has a strong resemblance to the true Mongol; the lips are full. As in the Mongol. As in the Mongol. As in the Mongol; the angle at the internal canthus is quite rounded away. Chin very small and pointed, but not in any way project- ing. General Remarks —In the Bosjesman, there is the finest symmetry of the whole frame ; stature remarkably diminu- tive. The peculiarities in the females, and the uncommon powers of vision of the race, are lost, by a single cross with any other breed or race. The cranium is finely formed; the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones large and broad ; these give to the Mongol and Boschman the appearance of breadth at the root of the nose. The foramina for the transmission of the hy- poglossal nerves, seem uniformly larger in the black than in the white race of mankind, which would indicate the existence of a proportionally large nerve. The cranium of the Bosch- man, viewed vertically, is nearly equal to the well formed Eu- * The description taken from Bbumenbacii. -|- The description taken chiefly from a Hottentot cranium in the possession of Dr Monuo; and partly from a cast of the Hottentot Venus, in the Museum of the University.