MUSCLES OE TI1E TONGUE. 501 backwards, and which prevent their food from getting out of the mouth. The dog and also the cat has a similar appara- tus ; and the surface of the tongue of the latter has upon it horny villi, which assist the animal in securing its prey. In the dog there is a line of tendon, placed in the upper part of the substance of the tongue, inclosed in a sheath, which ex- tends to the point of the tongue, and which is supposed to assist the animal in lapping its drink. Birds have papillae not only on the tongue, but also on the palate, to prevent the food from escaping from the mouth. The tongue in many fishes is covered by a number of teeth, so that it may be doubted whether it be an organ of sense. The tongue is always kept moist by the mucous follicles, which cover the greater part of its surface, and by the saliva. The tongue is chiefly composed of muscular fibres, for per- forming its varied movements; and there is no part of the body which exhibits a more remarkable instance of the va- riety, force, extent, velocity, and precision of muscular action. The Lingualis * is usually described as a mass of muscular fibres in the substance of the tongue, extending from the base to the point of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and genio- glossus muscles. It may be proper to add, that this muscle is by no means well-defined, for its fibres are much involved in the adjacent muscles. This muscle, which is fixed into the tip of the tongue, raises the tip of the tongue, and brings it backwards. Hyo -glossus Muscle. This muscle arises from the base, and one of the cornua of the os hyoides, and terminates in the side of the tongue, near the stylo-glossus. This muscle depresses the edge of the tongue. Gen io-hi/oglossns Muscle. This muscle arises from the symphysis of the under-jaw ; and its fibres pass in a radiated manner, to be fixed to the There is certainly an impropriety in this term, as the names of the other muscles which move the tongue arc of Greek origin.