12 ELEMENTS OF ANATOM Y. In the animal kingdom, there is great variety in form, dis- position, number, and composition of the component bones of the skeleton of animals, which is peculiarly adapted to the pe- culiar economy of the animal to which it belongs. “ Each class and each order of animals” (as Cuvier has well ob- served) “ have particular characters relative to their skeleton ; they consist in the general form of the trunks and extremi- ties, in the presence or absence of the latter, and in the num- ber of those different parts Certain bones are added to the skeleton for a particular purpose. Thus the tail of the kangaroo is prolonged, that the animal may sit on it, and be assisted by it in leaping. Animals that breathe air are provided with ribs. In animals that breathe air in water, cartilages are super- added, on which the gills are placed. In some animals, there are only two extremities, but in others four. . Some animals have bones peculiar to the organs of genera- tion : a bone is found in the penis of the dog, bear, and hip- popotamus. The kangaroo and opossum are provided with bones to support the false belly. There is a difference in regard to the size, proportions, de- pressions and eminences in the bones of different individuals of the same age, the same sex, and of the same country; and a still more striking variety, at different periods of life, in the different sexes, and amongst the inhabitants of different coun- tries. The stature of the human skeleton is various. I have seen the skeleton of a giant which measured 8 feet 2 inches in height; and there have been many instances of dwarfs that did not ex- ceed 33 or 34 inches, though in no respect deformed; and it may not be improper to add, that there is no evidence whatever of men having degenerated in stature. I have seen many mum- mies that were brought from Egypt, whose average stature did not exceed 5 feet 4 or 5 inches; and have been informed * See lloss’s Translation of Cuvier’s Lectures, vol. i. p. 151.