ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY, 510 This muscle elevates and dilates the pharynx, and also the thyroid cartilage. Of tlic Gullet. The Gullet, or (Esophagus, is a musculo-membranaceous and very extensible canal, which is connected loosely to the neighbouring parts; extending between the pharynx and sto- mach, and between the fifth cervical and ninth dorsal verte- bra. When the gullet is constricted, the canal above the seat of the disease is often much expanded. I have described a case, in which the enlargement was so great, that the patient could retain nearly a pint of fluid for ten minutes, during which he conversed with his friends *. It is placed behind the windpipe, and between it and the vertebrae of the neck, inclining rather to the left side; and, from the fifth to the ninth vertebra, it inclines rather to the right side, to make way for the aorta. Within the thorax, the gullet is lodged within the poste- rior mediastinum, from which its sides receive a covering. The gullet then inclines somewhat forwards from the spine* and passes through the cardiac opening of the diaphragm. In its collapsed state, it is nearly flat, both before and be- hind ; but when extended, it assumes nearly the form of a cylinder, excepting where it passes through the diaphragm, where it is somewhat contracted. The (Esophagus has five coats. The external coat is cel- lular, and unites it to the spine behind, and to the trachea before. The second coat is composed of distinct fasciculi of muscular fibres, which follow a longitudinal direction; and, within these, there are much thinner muscular fibres, which describe portions of a circle around the gullet. These muscular coats are connected by loose bands of cel- lular substance to the innermost coat; so that the gullet, when divided, seems to be a double tube. The innermost coat is a mucous membrane ; is of whitish colour, and has a number of longitudinal folds ; it is very dila- table ; and, when the gullet is expanded, the folds disappear. Vide my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, &c.