26 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The oil and jelly of the bones may be readily obtained by boiling; the former swims on the surface, and the water dis- solves the jelly. When bones have been boiled for some time, and deprived of their jelly, and of their earthy matter, by being immersed in an acid, a soft greyish-coloured cartilage remains, retaining the figure of the bone, which, according to Mr Hatchett *, the discoverer of this substance in bones, is similar in its pro- perties to coagulated albumen. Several of the modern chemists have analysed bones, more especially Hatchett, Fourcroy, Vauquelin, Cadet de Vaux, and Merat Guillot; but their researches have been li- mited chiefly to the examination of thebones of quadrupeds, and few experiments have been made upon human bones? either in their sound or diseased state. In these circumstances, some years ago, I requested of my friend Dr Joiin Davy, whose chemical knowledge is well known to the public, to analyse the bones of persons of different ages, in their sound and diseased state; with which request he readily complied, and has fa- voured me with the following results. “ I have carefully examined the different specimens of bones you gave me. The experiments I have made on them weje few, want of leisure not allowing me to be minute. I have tried them respectively with dilute muriatic acid, and have found all of them similarly acted on. They effervesced slightly ; yielded a cartilaginous residue, and their solutions afforded a precipitate with ammonia. The only apparent dif- ference was in respect to the degree of effervescence. The re- ticular bones effervesced more briskly than the firm and com- pact ones. But this appeared to be principally owing to the greater extent of surface exposed to the acid by the former, than by the latter: for I obtained from 50 grains of the rickety parietal bone 2 grains of carbonate of lime, just the proportion found by Mr Pepys in human teeth. « I have only attempted to ascertain the proportions of earth and of animal matter. To effect this, I exposed a cer- Vide Lond. Phil. Trans.