ABDOMINAL MUSCLES.—INFERENCES. 407 16^/t, That, on account of the connection of the ilial and transverse fascia? with the Crural arch, the bowels can be pro- truded only through the foramen crurale; and that, from the greater size of the female Crural Aperture the greater width of the female pelvis, a smaller size of Gimbernat’s Liga- ment, and of the iliacus interims and psoas muscles, women are more exposed to crural hernia? than males. 17th, From the small size of the Crural Aperture, and unyielding nature of the parts around it, strangulation is more common in this kind of hernia than in the inguinal, es- pecially in the male. < lSffA, That the bowels in crural hernia? are frequently protruded in a direction perpendicular to the abdomen, and on the fore-part of the pectineus muscle; and, on account of the small size of the Crural Aperture, and unyielding na- ture of the parts in the vicinity of it, the neck of the tumour is but of a small size, nearly of an uniform diameter, and from half an inch to three quarters of an inch long. On ac- count of the quantity of cellular substance at the bend of the thigh, which yields readily; on account, also, of the falciform process of the fascia lata, the tumour, in a case of the crural hernia, does not descend, but is reflected, or, as I in my Ob- servations on Crural Herniae observed, tilted upwards upon the crural arch, so that the fundus of it is in the most pro- minent part, and the body and neck of the sac form a consi- derable angle with each 'other; and the tumour sometimes expands laterally to a considerable extent. 19th. Owing to the superficial fascia, the quantity of fat, cellular substance, and lymphatic glands, which cover a cru- ral hernia, it is very difficult to detect that disorder, which may very readily be mistaken for a swelling of the lymphatic glands, as a crural hernia may exist at the same time as a swelling of these glands: hence the surgeon must judge of tare, because the Ossa Ilia and Ossa Pubis are more elevated than it, in con- sequence of which the truss does not produce the desired effect. He therefore directed, that the pad of the truss should be made much thicker and larger, and placed with such a degree of obliquity, with respect to the cir- cular, as to press upon both Apertures at the same time.