512 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY'. tition ; and from animals generally feeding with the head lower than the rest of the body. Such being the means by which the bolus of food passes in- to the gullet, it follows, that when these muscles become pa- ralytic, or are spasmodically contracted, or when any swelling or tumour obstructs their action, deglutition must be much in- terrupted, or wholly impeded. The palsy and spasm of the muscles is sometimes only of a few hours’ duration ; but, in other cases, it lasts for weeks or years *. There are instances of children born without the CEsopha- gus. “ A male child was born in August 1820, at the full pe- riod of utero-gestation. It was of the full size, and took the breast with avidity ; but each time, the milk was immediately returned by the nose and mouth, with rattling in the throat, and symptoms of impending suffocation. It lived in this state for eight days; during which, the alvine and urinary secre- tions were regularly voided, although in smaller quantities. “ On dissection, the stomach was without a cardiac orifice; and at this part was united to the diaphragm by means of cel- lular tissue. The lung on the right side was distended, and presented a reddish colour ; that on the left was compact, and dark in its appearance; hence the child had only breathed with the right lung. The oesophagus was entirely wanting ; and the pharynx formed a cul-de-sac at its inferior part -f*. u An instance entirely similar to the above occurred to Mr Hallam of Walworth. The child lived six or seven days. During that time, whatever was attempted to be given was returned in the manner already described. The alvine and urinary secretion was regularly voided, but in smaller quan- tity. On inspection after the child’s death, the oesophagus was found wanting.” These cases are interesting, chiefly on account of the regu- lar appearance of alvine evacuations, the greater part of which must have been formed by secretions from the mucous surface of the alimentary canal, and by the bile and pancreatic liquor. Vide my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines. •)■ Hufeland’s Journal, 1821.