187 OF THE SKULL. nasal cavity is considerably larger than in any other skull in my possession. I should suppose this peculiar form of tne forehead to have been occasioned by pressure artificially applied. The skull projects considerably behind, and that part of the occipital bone which is below the great arch is quite flat. The effects of pressure are still more evident in the casts of the skull of the Caribs. They measure from the most prominent part of the occiput to the root of the nose 7* in- ches in the one case, and 7ith in the other. They are also of considerable breadth, and measure between the most prominent portions of the parietal bones 6 inches. The artificial pressure seems also to have lessened the dis- tance between the upper part of the skull and its base, for in both, the temporal fossa? are distorted ; the upper portions of these fossa? is little lower than the line of the summit of the head at the sagittal suture ; and the distance between the origin of the zygomatic processes of the temporal bones, and the top of the head, is only 4| inches in both the casts. The unnatural breadth of the skull behind, had in my mind compensated for the loss of space occasioned by the un- natural depression of the forehead. Besides, in the skull, and also in the two casts, there is a distinct transverse ridge, near to the junction of the frontal and parietal bones. When the casts are examined from behind, there may be observed in each of them a depression in the site of the sa- gittal suture. In the skull, as also in the two casts, the orbits are large, somewhat of a circular form, and directed upwards, and near- ly an inch intervenes between them. In one of the casts, and also in the skull, the nasal cavity is larger than in any other skull in my possession, a circumstance which may serve to explain the great acuteness of the sense of smell in that tribe of people. The face is broad : across the cheek bones it measures 5 inches in one of the casts, and inches in the other, and in the skull 3