OF THE RADIUS. i53 cubiti is inserted. From this, a ridge runs downwards and inwards, where the supinator radii brevis is inserted ; and a little below, and behind this ridge, there is a rough scabrous surface, where the pronator radii teres is fixed. The body of the radius is convex on its internal and poste- rior surfaces ; but flat next to the ulna, for the origins of the muscles of the hand ; and both terminate in a common sharp spine, to which the strong ligament extended betwixt the two bones of the fore-arm is fixed. A little below the beginning of the plain surface, on its forepart, where the flexor muscle of the last joint of the thumb takes its origin, the passage of the medullary vessels is seen slanting upwards. The radius becomes broader and flat- ter towards the carpal extremity, especially on its fore-part, where its pronator quadratus muscle is situated. The carpal extremity of the radius is larger than the supe- rior. Its back-part has a flat strong ridge in the middle, and fossae on each side. In a small groove immediately on the outside of the ridge, the tendon of the extensor tertii internodii pollicis plays. In a large one beyond this, the tendons of the indicator and of the common extensor muscles of the fingers pass. Contiguous to the ulna, there is a small depression made by the extensor minimi digiti. On the inside of the ridge, there is a broad depression, which seems again subdivided, where the two tendons of the extensor carpi .radialis are lodged. The internal side of this end of the radius is also hollowed by the extensors of the first and second joint of the thumb ; immediately:above which, a little rough surface shews where the supinator radii longus is inserted. The ridges at the sides of the grooves, in which the ten- dons play, have an annular ligament fixed to them, by which the several sheaths for the tendons are formed. The fore- part of this end of the radius is also depressed, where the flexors of the fingers and flexor carpi radialis pass. The external side is formed into a semilunated smooth ca-