OF THE SHAPE OF THE SKULL. 193 period of life, describe only straight lines from their centres of ossification. Hence the head of a child labouring under hydrocephalus chronicus, notwithstanding its increased bulk, preserves for some time at least the form it had at birth. Some of the prominences on the head are more apparent than others: those on the fore-head especially are apparent even to the most superficial observer : the others also may be discovered by a careful examination. These prominences, in cases of hydrocephalus, correspond in situation, as in the fcetus, with the original centres of ossi- fication of the different pieces of the cranium. The os fronds in the foetus is composed of two pieces. Two projecting parts are seen in the fore-heads of all children labouring under hydrocephalus chronicus. There is also a well marked projection on each side of the head, correspond- ing wfith the centres of ossification of the parietal bones. There is only one projection in the upper and middle part of the os occipitis, which corresponds in situation with the largest piece of the os occipitis of the fcetus. It also frequently happens, that there is a marked in- equality in the size of the projections on the opposite sides of the head, which gives the head a distorted appearance; and in some instances, such inequality in the growth of the cra- nium takes place at the back-part of the head ; in others, in the forehead. In one of the cases which I met with, that part of the head which is opposite to the centre of ossification of the right pa- rietal bone, is more prominent than the same part of the skull on the left side; but the skull on the right side, under- neath the prominent portion, is almost fiat; whereas the corres- ponding portion on the left side bulges out, and forms a semi circular line downwards towards the neck. In another case, one side of the os frontis is much more prominent than the other, and to such a degree, that if tne profiles of both sides of the head were taken, no one w-ould imagine them to represent different views of the same head : the one resembles the profile of a child whose head is a little VOL. I. N