4.59 MUSCLES CF THE ANKLE Bi-Femoralis Calcaneus, or Gastrocnemius. This muscle arises between the hamstrings; it consists of tsvo strong heads, which are connected with the upper and back parts of the condyles of the thigh-bone ; a little below, the fleshy bellies are united in a middle tendon, which is joined to that of the following muscle. The internal belly is the longer. The muscular substance of this muscle is not equally long in the person of the African Negro as in the European; yet the muscle produces as great an effect. It forms a considerable share of the calf of the leg. Tibio-Calcaneus, or Soleus. This compound penniform muscle rises from the posterior and upper surface of the tibia and fibula. The flesh of this muscle is in part covered by the tendon of the former muscle ; and at the lower part of the leg, the belly of this muscle forms a prominent swelling under the tendon of the former muscle, or forms the lower part of the calf of the leg. The tendo Achillis has often been lacerated, by a violent and sudden effort of the gastrocnemii muscles, in dancing ; or sometimes it has been divided by a cutting instrument. In the museum of the University, there is a specimen, in which the lacerated tendon had been reunited ; the cure had been perfect, but notwithstanding that circumstance, there is an obvious enlargement of the tendon at the place where it had been torn. My grandfather, who had lacerated his own tendo Achillis, has published a full account of his own case, and of sixteen others which had fallen under his notice: he has described most particularly the mode of treatment, which consists chief- ly in relaxing the gastrocnemius muscle by bending tbe leg, and keeping it in that position during the cure. My Father used to observe in his Lectures, that he had met with several cases, in which a partial laceration of the belly of the gastro- cnemius muscle had been mistaken for a sprain of tbe ankle or laceration of the tendo Achillis. Such cases are to be treated in the same manner as when the tendo Achillis has been torn.