/ 530 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. solved *. The inner coats of the several stomachs of the ruminant animals differ from one another, and the food is in different states within these. “ In the next place, the appearance of the stomach in different kinds of animals varies according to the nature of the food ; and in fact, it is found to possess very different powers. So Reaumur inclosed grain and flesh in cylinders of iron perfor- ated with holes, and gave them to the carnivorous and granivor- ous birds; the flesh in the carnivorous soon melted, and the grain in the granivorous. But reversing the experiment, the change was much less perceptible ; so the liquors of the sto- much evidently act as powerful menstrua. I had observed the destruction of the coats of the stomach in a few persons, but at that time I considered this rather as the effect of the disease; not conceiving that the quality of the menstruum would have had so great an effect after death. In one case, however, there was great reason to suppose that the change had begun during life. A lady about twenty years of age had considerable oppression and pain about the stomach, and died suddenly. The body was opened thirty hours after her death, and the coats of the stomach were found destroyed. So I suspect that this might happen before death *h” There is still farther evidence as to the influence of the gastric * Dr Stevens in his celebrated Thesis De Alimentorum Concoctione, pu- blished Edinburgh 1777, has made particular mention (page 34.) of the experi- ments of my Father. He observes, “ Quinetiam Monroius clariss. hypotheses vanas et inutiles spernens, et veritatem, ut philosophum decet, per res veras et observationes solas comperiendi desiderio ictus, banc opinionem. multis gravi- busque arguments sustinere conatur, et quotannis, praRectionibus in publicis, quorundam periculorum a se factorum meminit, qua ad hanc theoriam magis etiamnum illustrandam plane conferunt.” Anno 1764, “ Compluria ossis femoris ovini frusta, pondere diversa, tria forma circularia, eodem tempore, cani dedit. Quo interempto et inciso, ita sese habuerunt: Omnia, prajter circularia quorum quoque nihil, nisi lamina externa <eque ac chart a tenuis superfuit, ear tutu consumptu sunt. “ Denicjue^ vir Celebris II unterus in Trans. Philos, quasdam observationes nuper edidit, qua; eandtm, opinionem plurimum firmant,” fully confirmed the a- bove supposition. The cases published by Dr Carmichael Smyth, in the London Medical Communications, have fully confirmed the above supposition.