ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 368 been not only much more numerous than in the oblique posi- tion, but would have acted upon the ribs with greater force. In all these instances, one reason of the diminution of force is, that the oblique muscles are longer, and therefore have fewer fibres than straight ones supposed to fill the same space; and the other reason is, that a muscle loses force by pulling obliquely, in the proportion which its length bears to the length of the sine of the angle which it forms with an hori- zontal line, or to the length of a perpendicular joining two horizontal lines which pass through the origin and insertion of the muscle. Thus, if an oblique muscle deviates one-half of a right angle from the perpendicular, it loses the one-half exactly of its strength. In all examples, where a space between two parallel lines or bones, such as the ribs, is filled up with muscular fibres, there will be a greater number of fibres when they run trans- versely than when they are placed obliquely, and they will besides act with more force: And, even when we suppose the number of fibres in two muscles so situated to be equal, the muscle with straight fibres will be stronger than the ob- lique one, in the proportion exactly which the length of the oblique fibre bears to the straight or perpendicular one. Hence, in all such cases, some advantages very different from an increase of strength must be gained by the obli- quity. V. It may easily be proved*, that a pair of oblique muscles placed between the same parallels with a pair of straight mus- cles, can, with less proportional decurtation, produce the same extent of motion that the straight muscles can do; and also that the oblique muscle has not lost so much of its length as is equal to one-third of the length of the straight muscle; and that the oblique muscle, after bringing its insertion to the same point as the straight muscle had done, has not lost so much of its length as the straight muscle had lost. • See proofs, in Outlines of Anatomy, Vol. I. p. 111., 112.