or THE HUMAN STOMACH. 533 a cuticular lining, which extends no farther than the cardiac orifice of the stomach, and is there folded. But the cardiac extremities of the stomach of-the horse and hare have a dis- tinct cuticular lining; and hence these form a link between the ruminant and non-ruminant animals, which latter have a distinct cuticular lining over the whole stomach. About two years ago, I sent to Dr Brewster a portion of the cardiac extremity of the stomach of a criminal, who died in the full vigour of health, and begged that he would care- fully examine the internal surface of it. He with great readiness complied with my request; and, after submitting it to the test of polarised light, said that he could not observe any villi upon it, but a reticulated honeycomblike surface. Mr Bauer’s description of the appearance of the internal surfaces of the gullet and stomach corresponds with that of Dr Brewster. The glands situated in the lining of the lower part of the gullet, are said to have the appearance of “ infundibular cells, whose depth does not exceed the thick- ness of the membrane.” The structure upon the upper arch of the stomach is said to be cellular; and the cells are in the form of a honeycomb, the sides of which are not formed by the doublings of the membrane, for no stretching of the cells . alters the form of their orifices, but are regular partitions constructed between the cells.” The same structure may be seen extending over the whole surface cf the cardiac portion, by a powerful microscope. “ In the pyloric portion, the cells have the same appearance, but there are small clusters, the sides of which rise above the surface, giving the appearance of foliated membranes. “ Inthe duodenum this takes place in a greater degree, and the loose edges of these membranes, when entangled in the mucus that covers them, put on an appearance of rounded globular bodies; but these admitted of being expanded, so as to explain the deception In some birds, and particularly in the common sea-gidl (Larus canus), the glands, at the conjunction of the gullet with the stomach, are easily seen: in the ostrich, the glands • Home's Comp, Anat,