514 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The middle space above that line has been called the Um- bilical Region, and the lateral spaces the Lumbar Regions: the middle space below that line has been named the Hy- pogastric Region, and the lateral spaces the Iliac Regions. The muscles which constitute a part of the parietes of the abdomen, have been already described ; we, therefore, proceed to describe the thin membrane which lines those, called the Peritonaeum. Of the Peritoneum. The peritonaeum is a tough elastic semitransparent serous membrane, which is externally connected by small bands of cellular membrane to the adjacent parts, but internally is very smooth, and constantly kept moist by a serous fluid, which is discharged upon its inner surface, by the exhaling branches of the arteries, probably by a kind of infiltration. As fast as this serous fluid is exhaled, it is absorbed ; but we neither can see the exhaling branches of the arteries, nor the vessels which absorb this serous fluid. There is an exact balance pre- served, during health, between the quantity of the fluid that is exhaled and absorbed, and any preponderance to either side gives rise to disease. The visible bloodvessels of the healthy peritonaeum are few in number, and of small size, but inflammation renders these very conspicuous; they describe an intricate net-work, and generally secrete coagulable lymph. Serous membranes possess, in their sound state, but a small share of sensibility ; and the nerves proper to these, are but of small size; but, when inflamed, they become very sensible: thus a patient labouring under peritonaeal inflammation can- not bear even the slightest pressure upon his belly. The pe- ritonaeum serves to support, connect, and to fix in their re- spective places, the several bowels of the abdomen, to the greater number of which it also gives a partial covering: the bowels, therefore, are not within the cavity of the abdo- men, but, strictly speaking, external to the peritonaeum. As the internal surface of the peritonaeum is smooth, and con- stantly kept moist by a serous fluid, the several bowels may