CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF THE HONES. 25 The bones of some of the inferior animals are green, and of others black *. Chemical Analysis of the Bones. The component parts of bone are Earth, Jelly, Cartilage, and Oil. A certain proportion between these component parts is essential: if the animal-matter be superabundant, the bones are unfit for supporting the weight of the body; but if it be deficient, the bones are brittle, and are readily broken. The quantity of earthy matter, on which the weight of the bone chiefly depends, differs much at different periods of life, and in the same man in the different bones, and in the different classes of animals, being adapted to the medium in which the animal lives. The lightness of the bones of birds is occasioned by the large caverns within them, into which' the air enters from the windpipe and lungs. The bones of most fishes contain but a very small proportion of earth, and even in whales where greater strength is required, the structure of the bones is looser than that of animals that live at land ; and the internal cavities of the bones are filled with oil. Even in animals that live on land, there are large cavities in the long and cylindrical shaped bones, filled with marrow, which, while they diminish the weight, do not detract from the strength of the bones. The constituent principles may be separated in different ways,—by burning bones in a fire,—by acids,—and by boiling. By the aid of fire, the animal matter is driven off; and by the addition of acids, the earthy matter is dissolved, and may be readily precipitated by the addition of an alkali. The earthy matter contained in human bones consists of the Phosphate of Lime, of Carbonate of Lime, and of a very small proportion of the Sulphate of Lime. In the bones of quadrupeds, a small proportion of the phos- phate of magnesia, iron, silex, and alumina, has also been de- tected by Fourcroy and Vauquelin; and Berzelius has stated, that from human bones he has obtained 2 per cent, of fluate of lime. * Vide Blumenbacr’s Comparative Anatomy, by Lawrence,