OF FRACTURE OF THE TIIIGH-BONE. 271 major and latissimus dorsi drasv the under portion upwards and backwards. Many examples of ill set fractured thigh-bones are to be found in anatomical museums. It is difficult to prevent the opposite portions of the frac- tured thigh-bone from crossing each other. The lower por- tion of the bone generally crosses the upper, which is occa- sioned by the contraction of the powerful muscles on the in- ner and back part of the thigh-bone. The weight of the limb has also a considerable influence in displacing the fractured extremities of the bones. If the thigh-bone be broken below the lesser trochanter, the psoas magnus and iliacus internus muscles, draw upwards and forwards, the undermost piece against the skin, and ro- tate it a little outwards. When the thigh-bone is broken within the capsular ligament, the head of the bone is deprived of the blood it received through the medium of its neck, the periosteum, and the reflection of the capsular ligament, for the arteries of the round ligament of the thigh-bone form the only remaining medium by which blood can find its way to the head of the thigh-bone, wrhen separated from the shaft of the bone ; hence there is not the necessary ossification to re-unite the broken pieces of the bone ; besides it is very difficult to keep the broken pieces of the bone in contact with each other. Boyer and Richerand have, however, affirmed, that a re- union of the broken pieces of the neck of the thigh-bone takes place, and several preparations wrere shewn to Mr Cross, on his visit to Paris *, to demonstrate the fact, which, however, did not satisfy Mr Cross, as, in those instances in which a unioa had taken place, a part of the fracture was beyond the limits of the capsular ligament. Considering the difficulty of distiguishing a fracture within,, from that without, the capsular ligament, it is not be won- dered that mistakes should be committed as to the diagnoses of the particular fracture. Dr Knox, a very acute and intelligent surgeon, gave me See account of his Trip to Paris in 1815.