559 OF THE LIVER. the reflected peritonaeum ; in proof of which, the liver changes its place during inspiration, descending for nearly two inches, or when we lie on the side. On lying on the right side, the liver is supported by the cartilages of the ribs; but, when we turn to the left, the stomach is compressed by the weight of the liver; hence we do not sleep so soundly on the left as on the right side. It seems to me, that the omentum hepato- gastricura, vena portae, and vena cava, may contribute more to the retaining of the liver in its place, than the falciform li- gament. This ligament may be readily seen, by making an incision from the ensiform cartilage downwards, on each side of the recti muscles of the abdomen, and by turning them up- wards. This ligament is thin and transparent, excepting at its under part, and extends backwards from the sheath of the recti muscles. In the under part of the falciform ligament, the shrivelled umbilical vein of the foetus, which is generally, though not always, quite impervious in the adult, is placed. The right and left lobes of the liver are united to the cor- responding portions of the diaphragm, by the reflections of the peritonaeum, which hence have been called the Lateral Liga- ments, which are evidently the continuation of the falciform ligament. Besides the above reflections of the peritonaeum, there is a portion of this membrane which extends between the liver and right kidney, and which has been named by Hal- lee, the Ligamentum Hepato-Renale. The above author has also described a portion of the peri- tonaeum, which extends from between the liver and the gall- bladder, across the duodenum, to the colon, under the name of Ligamentum Llepato-Colicum. The Coronary or Posterior Ligament of the liver is of con- siderable breadth, and serves to connect the middle of the pos- terior surface of the liver to the middle tendon of the dia- phragm. The Falciform Ligament is placed on the fore-part of the coronary ligament, and the lateral ligaments at the side of it. The human liver is an organ, of considerable thickness, and unequally so, being thickest behind, and on its right ride. Its transverse diameter is greater than the anteo-posterior