ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 400 tic glands, and, according to Mr Cooper, also by a portion of the fascia transversalis. On the fore part of the crural aperture, the crural arch is placed behind the pubes; and on the pubal side of it, the thin border of the internal part of the crural arch, sometimes called GimbernaCs ligament, or the third insertion of the ex- ternal muscle, by Sir Astley Cooper. There is a considerable difference as to the size of this aper- ture in the male and female. It is considerably larger in the latter *, owing to the greater size of the bones of the pelvis, to the smaller size of the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, and chiefly, as I discovered, to the greater narrowness of the inter- nal part of the crural arch, fixed into the pubal part of the inea ilio-pectinca. Of the Fascia Transversalis. The attention of antomists has been lately drawn to a thin fascia -f", which is seen upon removing the peritonaeum lining the abdominal muscles, which was discovered by Sir Astley Cooper j. This fascia lines the under part of the transverse muscle of the belly, is connected with the inner or posterior part of the crural arch, and then ascends for four or five inches upon the transversalis muscle of the abdomen, upon the surface of which it is gradually lost. This fascia serves two important purposes: it shuts up the direct passage into the cavity of the belly, behind the under abdominal aperture, and by dividing into the dial and pubal portions, forms in a great measure the upper abdominal aper- ture. This transversalis fascia is so dilatable, that in hernias • The plates in my Treatise upon the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, clearly point out the distinctions between the size of the crural aperture in the male and female. -j- I have described this fascia transversalis, and upper abdominal aperture, as in the parts dissected, which Sir Astley Cooper was so polite as to send to me. $ Sir Astley Cooper has stated, that, in some instances, it is merely con- densed cellular substance.