OF THE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. 367 and in many of those which are fixed to the head and spine. The sterno-mastoid, splenii, complexi, semi-spinales, multifi- dus spinse, are all of them evidently of that description. II. In many instances the obliquity of the fleshy fibres is so great, that the fibres are very much shorter than if they had run directly from what is called the origin of the muscle to its insertion, or the fibres are much more numerous than if the same space had been covered by straight fibres. Thus, suppose a straight muscle to be fifteen inches long, and that this is cut transversely into five equal parts, and these laid obliquely, in such a manner, as that their fibres form the dia- gonals of triangles, of which the height measures four inches, and the basis three inches. If there was no loss of strength by their pulling obliquely, the five short muscles would raise five times the weight; but, in fact, one-fifth of the force is lost, by their obliquity. Boeelli, De Motu Musculoi'um, p. 92., proves. That the “ potentia oblique trahens est ad re- sistentiam ut longitudo directionis oblique ad ej us sublimita- tem.'n But after this deduction, the five oblique muscles could raise four times as much as the single straight one of the same breadth and thickness. III. From the increase of strength which many muscles gain, by having their fibres made shorter, though laid in an oblique direction, it was universally supposed by authors, that the increase of force was the only purpose served by the obli- quity of their fibres. IV. Other very different purposes are served, by the obli- quity of the fibres of muscle. In various instances, the strength, of the muscle is diminished by the obliquity of its fibres, as that of many of the short muscles attached to the spine; as in the semi-spinalis colli et dorsi, multifidus spinae, &c. The most striking instance of this is to be found in the in- tercostal muscles. For it is evident, that if their fibres had been straight or perpendicular to the ribs, they would have