208 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The above description also applies to the skull of the Las- car, excepting as to thickness of its component bones, and as to the facial line, which is not so perpendicular as in the skull of the Hindoo. In this first class the Egyptians are also included. Much difference of opinion has prevailed, and still prevails, as to the features of the ancient inhabitants of Egypt. According to some authors, they resembled the African Negro, but accord- ing to others, the Hindoos. I have had occasion to see the skulls of five mummies that were brought from Egypt; and have in my possession 2 casts of the skulls of mummies. Two of these skulls resemble that of the African Negro, but all the others are similar to the Hindoo head in size and conformation. Colonel Stratton presented to the Museum of Natural History, a mummy, the head of which is in form like the Hindoo; and, in the same museum, there is the cranial part of a skull filled with pitch, which is of a very peculiar form. It is narrower than common between the external angular processes of the frontal bones, measuring only 3f inches: the transverse diameter behind, between the junctions of the squa- mous and lambdoidal sutures on the opposite sides of the skull, measures only 4| inches; whereas most skulls, at the same place, measure 6 inches or nearly so: the distance from before to behind is, by the callipers, 8| inches; and the up- per part of the skull forms an arch, of which the middle of the os frontis constitutes one extremity, and the most promi- nent part of the os occipitis the other. From the most pro- minent or highest part of the arch, near the middle of the sagittal suture, to the fore-part of the foramen magnum ossis occipitis, the distance was 5f inches, being little more than Jth of an inch greater than in most skulls: hence it appears that the pressure applied to the sides of this skull, had added very little to its depth. According to Blumenbach, Egypt, in former times, was peopled by different races of men; for the skulls of some mummies resembled the Hindoos, others the African Negro, and a third set, the inhabitants of the States of Barbary.