588 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and of water; and of each of these, nearly in the following proportions ; 65.0 brown matter. 36.7 bile. 8.3 water. 100.0 As the brown matter seemed to be of a peculiar kind, it may not be improper to mention its chief properties, and the experiments that were made, to become better acquainted with its nature. It was destitute of taste or smell, and was perfectly opaque. It burnt with a bright flame, and emitted an odour similar to that afforded by vegetable matter in com- bustion. It increased very little in volume ; was quickly cal- cined, and left much ash ; much more in proportion than the original concretion; so that the earth present, may chiefly, with propriety, be attributed to it. A strong solution of po- tash entirely dissolved it: the solution was transparent, and of a dark greenish-yellow colour. Cold muriatic acid had appa- rently no effect on it; but when heat was applied, a complete solution of a fine greenish-blue colour was produced, which was not rendered turbid by water; the only change produced was in respect to colour, which, from green, had become perfectly blue. Nitric acid immediately acted on it; red nitrous fumes were disengaged ; and, in a short time, a dark-red trans- parent solution was formed, which was rendered slightly tur- bid by water. Sulphuric acid immediately darkened the pow- der, and itself acquired a fine emerald green colour, which it imparted to water; when heated, sulphurous acid gas was disengaged, and carbon precipitated. From these experiments, and others which I might mention of a negative nature, it is -evident, that this brown matter is very different from inspis- sated bile. In many of its properties, it approaches fibre ; and, on the whole, more resembles it, than it does any other substance I am acquainted with. No. 3.—This concretion, in size nearly equal to a common nutmeg, and of an oval form, was also found in the gall-bladder of an ox, and its appearance was very similar to the last de-