ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 60 bound together in front by a strong ligament, which extends from the second vertebra of the neck to the sacrum, and also by a ligament of a yellowish colour, which lines the posterior and inner surface of the spinal canal: another ligament of a similar description, and which is very elastic, extends between the roots of the spinous processes. The oblique articulating processes being tipped with cartilages, are so connected by their ligaments, as to allow a small degree of motion to all sides. Ligaments also pass in a crucial direction between the vertebrae, the transverse processes are united by ligaments; and hence it is evident, that their centre of motion is altered in different positions of the trunk ; for when we bow forwards, the upper moved part bears entirely on the bodies of the verte- brae. If we bend back, the oblique processes support the weight; If we recline to one side, we rest upon the oblique processes of that side, and part of the bodies ; and if we stand erect, all the bodies and oblique processes contribute to our support. On account of the number of the joints of the spine, the spinal marrow, nerves, bloodvessels, &c. are not liable to com- pression and overstretching by the motion of the trunk of the body, as several vertebras must be concerned in every motion of the spine; and, therefore, a very small curvature takes place at the conjunction of any two vertebras. Hence, also, the erect posture is the surest and firmest, because the surface of contact of the fulcra is largest, and the weight is most per- pendicular to them. Hence the muscles which move the spine, act with greater force in bringing the trunk to an erect pos- ture, than in drawing it to any other; for, in bending for- wards, backwards, or to a side, the muscles subservient to any of these actions are nearer the centre of motion; conse- quently, the lever with which they act is shorter than when the centre of motion is on the part of the vertebrae, opposite to that where these muscles are inserted, which is the case in raising the trunk. This is extremely necessary, since, in the deflections of the spine from a perpendicular bearing, the weight of the body soon inclines it which way we design ; whereas, in raising us erect, this great weight must be more than counteracted.