595 OF BILIARY CALCULI. adipocire, blended with a little bile, and very slight traces of brown matter, and albumen. The presence of albumen was inferred from the appearance of white flakes mixed with the minute quantity of brown matter that remained after diges- tion in hot alcohol. No. 19-—This concretion was small, and of an irregular oval figure. Externally it was black and shining, and inter- nally of a chocolate colour. It possessed a small yellowish white nucleus, of a soft consistence and greasy feel. The nucleus was found to consist chiefly of adipocire, with a very little bile ; and the remainder of the concretion was composed of brown matter, with a slight admixture also of bile. The nineteen preceding are certainly biliary calculi, the next two are of a doubtful nature. No. 20.—This concretion was of an oval figure, and of a light brown colour. Its texture was fibrous and porous. It was tough, hard, and rough to the feel, and had no smell or taste. It sunk in water. Heated before the blowpipe it in- flamed, and did not swell; emitted an odour similar to that of vegetable matter in combustion, and afforded much white ash. The ash was found chiefly to consist of phosphate and carbonate of lime; four grains were obtained from seven of the concretion, so that it contains 56 per cent, of earth. This combustible matter appeared most analogous to woody fibre; it was partially soluble in a strong solution of potash, and perfectly in nitric acid. No. 21.—This concretion was of an oval form. External- ly it was hard, and of a light brown colour; internally the colour w'as similar, but the substance diffei’ent, as it was soft, compressible, and fibrous. The external layer, which was very thin, when calcined, left much ash, as much as 80 per cent., which consisted chiefly of phosphate of lime; the inter- nal part, which burnt like vegetable matter, afforded much less. This, as well as the last, very much resembled alvine con- cretions; and, as the history of them is unknown, as it is nei- ther ascertained whether they were discharged per anum, or found in the gall-bladders, it appears much more natural to