ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 164 surface is convex and smooth ; behind, it is unequal and con- cave, for lodging part of the temporal muscles. The four angles of each of these bones have been reckoned processes by some authors. The one at the external canthus of the orbit, called the superior orbitar process, is the longest and thickest. The second terminates near the middle of the lower edge of the orbit in a sharp point, and is named the in- ferior orbitar process. The third, placed near the lower part of the cheek, and thence called maxillary, is the shortest, and nearest to a right angle. The fourth, which is called zygo- maticbecause it is extended backwards to the zygoma of the temporal bone, ends in a point, and has one side straight, and the other sloping. Between the two orbitar angles, there is a concave arch, which makes about a third of the external cir- cumference of the orbit, from which a fifth process is extend- ed backwards within the orbit, to form near one-third of that cavity; and hence it may be called the internal orbitar pro- cess. From the lower edge of each of the ossa malarum, which is between the maxillary and zygomatic processes, the masseter muscle takes its origin; and from the rough exterior part of the zygomatic process, the zygomatic muscles take their rise. On the external surface of each cheek-bone, there are one or more small holes, for the transmission of small nerves or bloodvessels, from and sometimes into the orbit. On the in- ternal surface there are small apertures for the passage of the nutritious vessels of these bones. A notch on the outside of the internal orbitar process of each of these bones, assists to form the great slit common to this bone, and to the sphenoid, maxillary, and palate bones. The substance of these bones is, in proportion to their bulk, thick, hard, and solid; and hence, from this circumstance, and their convex form, they are seldom broken, though much exposed to external violence. Each of the ossa malarum is joined, by its superior and in- ternal orbitar processes ; to the os frontis, and to the orbitar process of the sphenoid bone, by the transverse suture. By the edge between the internal and inferior orbitar processes,.