OF THE MARROW. 37 Baron Haller was led by his experiments to consider it to be destitute of sensibility, an opinion he adopted from its si- milarity to the subcutaneous fat. But correct conclusions cannot, in all cases, be drawn from analogy; for Du VerneY, an accurate observer, after amputating the leg of a dog, thrust the instrument into the marrow, which seemed to give the animal “ un tres vive douleur.” On the internal surface of the solid parts of bones, there are, according to Havers, orifices of canals, which pass out- wards through the plates to open into other canals that are in a longitudinal direction, from which other transverse passages go out to terminate in other longitudinal canals; and this structure is continued through the whole substance of bones, both these kinds of canals becoming smaller gradually as they approach the outer surface *. These canals are most conspi- cuous in a bone burnt till it is white : When it is broken transversely, the orifices of the longitudinal canals are in view; and when we separate the plates, also the transverse canals. Different opinions have been held respecting the use of the marrow: 1 st. It is not necessary to perfect health, as birds and cartilaginous fishes, that are destitute of it, are as healthy as other animals. 2d, It does not l’ender the bones less brit- tle ; for those of the foetus, which contain little marrow, are not more brittle than those of the adult which contain a much greater quantity of it, and the bones of old persons, in whom the medullary canal is very large, are more brittle than those of persons in the meridian of life. Nor are the bones of the cetacea or of the tortoise that are destitute of marrow more brittle than those of other animals. It is evident that the marrow is not more essential than fat, as many animals are quite healthy without fat or marrow. Of the Nerves of Bones. A bone is a living organized substance, having its proper nerves, bloodvessels and absorbents. Haver*s Osteolog. nov. p. 43.