596 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. refer them to the former than to the latter, viz biliary calculi, which they so little resemble. The nineteen concretions described in the preceding pages, may be referred to three or four genera, or species, agreeably to the substances which enter into their composition, viz. adi- pocire, bile, the peculiar brown substance, and the black sub- stance, should it be proved to be peculiar also. It may not be improper to describe in this place the cha- racteristic marks of each kind. Biliary calculi, consisting of pure adipocire, or much abounding in this substance, may be distinguished by their greasy feel, soft consistence, fusibi- lity, and much greater solubility in hot than cold alcohol. Those calculi containing bile are characterized by the very peculiar taste of this substance, and its ready solubility both in alcohol and water, either hot or cold. Biliary calculi, con- sisting entirely or chiefly of brown matter, may be known by their colour, brittleness, slight conchoidal fracture, and the little effects of alcohol, or water on them. And, lastly, those concretions formed of black matter, may be distinguished (if farther experiments confirm the preceding results), by a pe- culiar smell and taste, intense black colours, and the slight action of either the muriatic or sulphuric acid, or a solution of potash. Respecting the admixture of the species, it is un- necessary to make any remark *. PLATE I. This Engraving represents two different organic derangements of the liver. In Fig. 1., the acini of the liver, which had attained an unna- tural size and form, were of a yellowish-red colour^ and, in Fig. 2. the liver had attained a very uncommon degree of firmness. The cellular substance between the different acini of the liver was very much thickened, and the acini were much enlarged. The liver, when the drawing was made from it, was of a yellowish-green hue. The patient died from obstinate jaundice. ■ The above observations of Dr John Davy on Biliary Calculi, were written during the year 1814.