83 OF THE PELVIS. From the table it follows, That in a well formed pelvis, the antero-posterior dia- meter is somtimes equal to four and a half inches; but that in the Negress, it is considerably less; and, in the female de- formed pelvis, it is sometimes equal only to one and a half inch: That in the male, it is not proportioned to the sta- ture of the body, for in the skeleton which measured six feet, it was less than in the other two male skeletons of inferior stature. 2d, That, -in a well formed female, the conjugate dia- meter of the pelvis generally equals five inches, and some- times exceeds it a little ; but in the Negress it is less, and is also still less in three of the deformed pelves. The mollifies ossium, therefore, does not tend to diminish this diameter of the pelvis so much as the antero-posterior diameter. The oblique diameter of the male pelvis did not (except- ing in No. 10.), equal that of the female pelvis. 3d, That the lateral diameter of the pelvis in the skeleton is greater than the oblique ; but in the recent body, it must be less, this aperture being diminished by the psoae and iliaci interni muscles; and it merits notice, that the mollifies ossium does not materially lessen the lateral diameter of the upper aperture of the pelvis. This diameter is not so great even in a tall man, as in a fe- male who is shorter by several inches. 4111, That the depth of the os sacrum, from top to bottom, was less in the Negress than in the European, and still more so in one of the deformed pelves I measured; and in the other deformed pelves, it was reduced even in a greater degree. In the Negro, also, the depth of the os sacrum was infe- rior to that of the sacrum of the male European. 5th, That the transverse diameter of the outlet varied con- siderably, even in the well-formed pelvis of the European female, in some specimens exceeding 5 inches; but in others exceeding by a little 4 inches only : that in the Negress, it was nearly an inch less than in the European, and in one of tire deformed pelves it equalled only 2 inches. In the Negro and male European, there was but little dif- f 2