ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 58 the lower, or shorter, is composed of bones, which, excepting the undermost, are immoveable. The bones composing the under part of the spine are much larger than those of the up- per part, which is peculiar to man, by which he is enabled to maintain his erect position. Upon looking at the spine, in front or from behind, it seems straight; but when examined in profile, it seems to bear no distant resemblance to the letter S. It projects forwards in the neck, for the better support of the gullet; in the back, it inclines backwards, for the enlargement of the chest; in the loins, it again projects forwards, for the support of the bowels of the belly ; and in the upper part of the pelvis, Jt is reflected backwards for the enlargement of that cavity ; and at its lower extremity is turned forwards, for the better support of the intestines ; and thus sufficient room is given for the attach- ment of the requisite number of muscles which support and move the head and trunk of the body. Hence the body is well supported, as the line of gravity which passes through these different curves falls within the space occupied by the feet. Of the Moveable or True Vertebra. The true or moveable vertebrae are twenty-four in num- ber ; each has, at its fore part, a thick spongy body, which is in front convex, but concave behind, and plain above and be- low, and which is perforated by many small holes, through which the bloodvessels enter into the bones, and into which the fibres of the ligaments which connect these bones are in- serted. For the sake of additional security, the bodies of the vertebrae, when divided, may be observed to have a sort of case of dense bone, which are joined to these bodies in the form of epiphysis. Elastic substances of a ligamentous or cartilaginous na- ture, and consisting of concentric fibres, which are softer towards their centers, are interposed between the several vertebras. The middle or softer part is the fulcrum or pivot, and is nearly incompressible.