or THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 387 Mr A. Burns * lias most justly observed, “ From the re- sistance afforded by the platysma myoides and the fascia, such tumours penetrate between the contiguous muscles, and encircle the subjacent vessels and nerves, rendering, where the disease is advanced, the excision of these swellings pecu- liarly perplexing to the surgeon, and dangerous to the pa- tient. Indeed, there are many tumours formed in the region between the chin and the chest, to attempt the removal of which, would, on the part of the operator, betray the gross- est ignorance of the structure of the neighbouring parts. Some tumours are so deeply attached to the pharynx, are so intri- cately entangled among important arteries and nerves, and so firmly fixed to the muscles in the vicinity, that to under- take their extirpation would be to form the resolution to in- jure all these parts. “ This establishes most forcibly the propriety, nay, it proves the absolute necessity, of as speedy a removal of the morbid parts, as is compatible with prudent attempts to re- move the tumour without operation. If distant parts have suffered from an extension of the morbid action, no one can be certain that all the diseased substance has been cleared away; and if a single atom of the contaminated parts be per- mitted to remain, the patient is in a condition equally danger- ous as before we operated. The disease is suspended, not eradicated, and the secondary affection is worse than the first.” Second Layer. Under the platysma myoides, a strong muscle, extending obliquely upwards from the breast-bone, and collar bone, to be fixed by tendinous fibres into the back part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone, is seen, called Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid Muscle. The different portions of this muscle, from the sternum and collar bone, are united by cellular substance. The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is a thick strong muscle, which arises by two heads, the one of which takes its origin • Vide his Surgical Anatomy of the Neck, p. 18. B b 2