elements of anatomy. 4Si account of their strength and thickness, are well constructed for perforating and tearing animal substances. The four fore-teeth in each jaw have been named Incisores, as they cut the aliment. These teeth have broad flat bodies, which are convex before and concave behind, and have a sharp cutting edge at their base, by their foreside turning in- wards, while they are sloped down and hollowed behind. The middle incisores are by much the largest, and those of the upper are larger than those of the under jaw. When the stamina of two sets are formed, each has its own socket; those nearest the edge of the gums being placed more forwards, and the others lodged farther back within the jaw-bones. The Cuspidati, or Canine teeth have been named from their likeness to the teeth of the dog. They are broader, longer, and stronger than the incisores. Their bases are formed into a sharp edge, as the Incisores are; only, the edge rises into a point in the middle. Each of them has generally but one long root, though sometimes they have two. The roots are crooked towards the end. The Canini of the upper jaw are larger and longer, and have more crooked roots, than those of the under jaw. The form of their base is fit both for piercing and cutting; and the long crooked root of each makes it secure in the socket. There are five Dentes molares, or Grinders, in each side of each jaw ; in all twenty. Their bases are broader, more sca- brous, and with a thinner cortical substance than the other teeth. They have also more roots; and, as these roots gene- rally divaricate from each other, the partitions of the sockets between them bear a large share of the great pressure they suffer. The human grinding teeth difFer most materially from those of the inferior animals: they have not flat sur- faces, with prominent ridges, part of which is composed of enamel; but there are prominences of an obtuse form, arising from the surfaces of these teeth, which are incrusted by ena- mel * The base of the first grinder has an edge pointed in the middle, on its outside, resembling the Canini; from which The enamel is equal in thickness all around these teeth.