93 OF THE OSSA COCCYGIS. The shoulders of the largest piece are extended beyond the end of the os sacrum ; which enlargement should, in my opinion, serve as a distinguishing mark to fix the limits of either bone. From the back of its shoulders, a process often rises up on each side, which join with the bifurcated spine of the fourth and fifth bones of the os sacrum, to form the bony bridge mentioned in the description of the os sacrum. Sometimes these shoulders are joined to the sides of the fifth bone of the os sacrum, to form the hole in each side common to these two bones, for the passage of the twenty-ninth pair of spinal nerves. Immediately below the shoulders of the os coccygis, a notch may be remarked in each side, where the thirtieth pair of the spinal nerves passes. The lower end of this bone is formed into a small head, which very often is hol- low in the middle. The three lower bones gradually become r,smaller, are spongy, and are strengthened by a strong ligament which covers and connects them. Between each of these four bones in young subjects, a car- tilage is interposed. The lower end of the os sacrum, and of each of the three superior bones of the os coccygis, has a small depression in the middle; and the upper part of all the bones of the os coccygis is a little concave, and, consequently, the interposed cartilages, connecting these bones, are thickest in the middle, to fill up both cavities; thus the bones are more firm- ly fixed to each other. When the cartilages ossify, the up- per end of each bone is formed into a cavity, exactly adapted to the protuberant lower end of the bone immediately above. From this sort of articulation, it is evident, that, unless when these bones grow together, all of them are capable of motion; of which, the first and second, especially this last, enjoys the largest share. The lower end of the fourth bone terminates in a rough point, to which a cartilage is appended. To the sides of these bones of the os coccygis, the coccygaei muscles, and part of the levatores ani, and of the glutaei maxi- mi, are fixed. The substance of these bones is very spongy, and in chil- %