OF THE AMERICAN CLASS. 231 the root; a very few only, who had strong thick beards, che- rished them and let them grow., My friend Sir A. Halliday sent me, a few years ago, a skull of a most extraordinary form. Dr Spurzhetii, to whom I shewed it, declared it to be the greatest curiosity he had examined. Most unfortunately, I could not gain ex- act information as to the place where it had been procured. All that is known about it is, that it had been procured in one of the islands of the South Seas. This skull is not of the same compact texture as that of the Negro. It is of a loose texture; and, in proportion to its large size, is light. The cranial part of the skull is large, in proportion to the bones of the face, which are rather small. The forehead is very flat, though not so much so as that of the Carib of the Island of St Vincent’s. There ai’e four small risings upon the frontal bone. The top of the head is flat, and there is an evident depression between the frontal and parietal bones, in the line of the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoidal sutures. The parietal bones are remarkably prominent; they bulge out so much, at the sides of the original centres of ossification, that the space between the coronal and lambdoidal sutures is equal to 3 inches only; and the distance between the most prominent portions of the parietal bones of the opposite side, is equal to 6/fiths of an inch ; whereas, the distance from the root of the nose to the most prominent part of the occiput, is equal to 5§ inches: the usual proportions of the skull are therefore re- versed. The measure, by a string stretched across the top of the head from the origin of the one zygomatic process to that of the opposite side, was equal to lS^ths of an inch. The occipital bone was by no means so convex as usual above its greater arch, and it did not project beyond the pa- rietal bones above an inch. Hence the distance from the fore-edge of the meatus auditorius externus, to the most pro- minent part of the upper jaw-bone, is equal to inches; but the distance between the most prominent part of the os occipitis and back-edge of the meatus auditorius externus, is equal to inches only. There is an evklent. depression in the os occipitis behind,