233 OF THE OLD SCOTCH SKULL. the skull of that rebel Kandian Chief Kapitapola, which was presented to the Phrenological Society by Mr Marshall. The upper jaw is more prominent than in the European; but Dr Davy considers this to be peculiar to the individual, and by no means a characteristic feature of this nation at large. Dr Davy added, he knew this rebel chief well, and had heard his defence when he was brought to trial, which, considering the very short time he had to prepare it, was a very able one; and, on the whole, he considers the Singalese to be an intel- ligent people. The inhabitants of this island, according to Mr Marshall, and “ particularly those of the higher classes, are remarkably well made; compared with Europeans they have short necks*.” I have subjoined a very brief notice as to the form of the skull of several of our countrymen* who had probably lived during the 12th and 13th centuries. A considerable number of skulls were found in digging out the foundation (February 1824) for the new Library of the University, which place, ac- cording to tradition, had been the burying ground of the White Friars 500 years ago. I procured ten of these skulls, which exhibit all the varieties in point of form which exist at this day. One of them is most remarkably long, measuring from the os frontis to the os occipitis inches; but it is not pro- portionally broad, for, from the meatus auditorius externus of one side, to that of the opposite side, it measures only 4§ inches. In point of form it is very similar to that of the Egyp- tian mummy which was filled with pitch, of which the mea- surements are given at page 208. The forehead of one of the other skulls is not unlike to that of the Carib: the os frontis is remarkably low, but there is no appearance as if artificial pressure had been employed to flat- ten it. The teeth in all the skulls were less decayed than the other bony parts, and had better resisted the influence of time, which is a strong argument against the identity of the bony part of the tooth and bone in general. * Notes on the Medical Topography of Ceylon.