520 elements of anatomy. Ludwig *, Huffland f, and Van der Kolk have aiso described the contraction in the middle of the stomach. This contraction, in the middle of the stomach, is either temporary or permanent; and, according to Morgagni, is con- nected with a derangement in the functions of digestion. But a contraction in the middle of the stomach is not always to be found. This contraction, in the middle of the stomach, is most ob- vious in those instances where the stomach is of unusual size, and where the distance, between the opposite extremities is greater than common; if, after death, the body is examin- ed so late as twenty-four hours, the contraction in the middle of the stomach, is generally not evident. There is a species of contraction of the middle of the sto- mach which does not go off, of which I have a specimen be- fore me, while writing these lines, and where the contraction is, at present, quite obvious, though the stomach has been preserved for eighteen months in spirits. Upon the whole, as we occasionally observe a similar ap- pearance, and to a greater extent, as the consequence of a spas- modic contraction, in the turns of the intestines, both great and small, in the gall-bladder and bladder of urine, when, upon examination, there is no organic disease; as this stricture of the stomach is only observed when the body is opened soon after death, and as it entirely disappears in twenty-four hours, unless when it is the effect of disease, and does not remain until the stomach be destroyed by putrefaction ; I am disposed to conclude, that it is the result of spasm affecting particular muscular fibres,—an opinion which receives weight, from there being no peculiar organisation of the stomach or band of mus- cular fibres, calculated to cause such an unnatural division of the stomach, and as the stricture varies in situation and de- gree of contraction and extent, in different bodies. • Vide Primoe Line® Pathol. Lips. 1785, p, 40. -f- Vide Journal der Pract. Arzneyk. V, B. P. 823. £ Vide Dissert. Groning. 1793.