ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 544 There is much variety, in different subjects, as to the place where the peritonaeum is reflected from the bladder upon the rectum ; generally speaking, it is opposite to the posterior parts of the vesiculae seminalis. This fact is well worthy of particular attention, because it is unsafe, in operating upon fistulae, high up within the rectum, to divide that portion of the rectum which is beyond the reflected peritonaeum ; if the rectum shall be divided higher up, the cavity of the abdomen is opened, and the patient is exposed, not only to peritonaeal inflammation, but also to the risk of bleeding from the inter- nal haemorrhoidal artery and vein. The same observations also apply to the cutting into the bladder of urine from the rectum. This portion of the larger intestine is the receptacle in which the faeces are accumulated, before being expelled. It is con- structed so as to admit of considerable distention. When this bowel is empty, there are several transverse folds, which dis- appear when it is distended. About four or five inches from the verge of the anus, the rectum seems as if it had been begirt by a tight cord ; and, opposite to that place, there is, in the adult, an obvious pro- jection of the inner coats which encroach about a quarter of an inch into the rectum. The faces are gradually collected within this bowel, which readily admits of distention ; and, when accumulated within it, by their quantity, weight, and acrimony, the intestine is much stimulated to contraction. It may be proper to observe, that the length of time the faces are retained, varies according to the quantity of the contents, and nature of bile, which has a great influence as to the evacuation of the faeces. The bowels of the young are much more irri- table than those of the old and infirm. Food passes through the bowels generally in 24 hours. By the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, we strain, in or- der to compress the rectum, to overcome the resistance of its sphincter, and expel the contents. The Levatores ani, which form the lower part of the pelvis, are the antagonists of the diaphragm: they support the rec- tum ; prevent it from yielding too much ; and, upon the anus being sufficiently opened, the contents ol the bowels are pro-