245 or THE SCAPULA. these two flat surfaces is the larger; behind it, a superficial spiral channel, formed by the muscular nerve, and the vessels that accompany it, runs from behind, forwards, and down- wards. The body of the os humeri is flat behind. Near the lower end of this bone, a large sharp ridge is extended on its outside, from which the musculus supinator radii longus, and the extensores carpi radiales rise. Opposite to this there is another small ridge, to which the aponeurotic tendon, that gives origin to the fibres of the internal brachialis muscle, is fixed; and, from a little depression on the fore-side of it, the pronator radii teres rises. The body of the os humeri becomes gradually broader to- wards the lower end, from which there are several processes; at the roots' of which there is a cavity before, and another behind. The anterior is divided by a ridge into two : the external, which is the least, receives the end of the radius; and the internal receives the coronoid process of the ulna, when the fore-arm is bended ; while the posterior deep tri- angular cavity lodges the olecranon, when the fore-arm is ex- tended. Betwixt these two cavities, the bone is so thin as to appear diaphanous in several subjects. The sides of the pos- terior cavity are stretched out into two processes, called con- dyles ; from each of which a strong ligament passes to the bones of the fore-arm. The external condyle is directed obliquely forwards in respect of the internal, when the arm is in the most natural posture. From the rough part of the condyle, the inferior head of the extensor carpi radialis, the extensor digitorum communis, extensor carpi ulnaris anconaeus, and part of the supinator radii brevis, take their rise; and, on the smooth head, the upper end of the radius plays. The internal or more promi- nent condyle gives origin to a part of the flexor carpi radialis, the pronator radii teres, the flexor digitorum sublimis, and flexor carpi ulnaris. A pully, having two lateral prominences, and a smooth cavity, is interposed between the condyles. When the fore- arm is extended, the tendon of the brachialis internus muscle 13 lodged in the fore-part of the cavity of the pully. In a