ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 278 fracture, and the cause of the injury. In the oblique frac- ture, occasioned by a fall on the foot, the broken ends of the bones must pass each other; the upper portion projects down- wards and forwards before the under piece, and the lower portion is drawn upwards and backwards. But if the frac- ture be transverse, there is often but a slight degree of dis- placement of the broken pieces; but every movement of the limb has a tendency to occasion a displacement; hence the ne- cessity of the apparatus adapted to the cure. The external side of the lower end of the tibia has a rough irregular semilunar cavity formed in it, for receiving the lower end of the fibula. The posterior side has two lateral grooves, and a small middle protuberance. In the internal depression, the ten- dons of the musculus tibialis posticus and flexor digitorum longus are lodged; and in the external, the tendon of the flexor longus policis plays. From the middle protuberance, ligamentous sheaths go out, for tying down these tendons. Both the ends of the tibia are cartilages at the birth, and become afterwards epiphyses. Of the Fibula. The Fibula is the small long bone, placed on the outside of the leg, opposite to the external angle of the tibia; the shape of it is irregularly triangular. The head of the fibula has a superficial circular cavity on its inside, which, in a recent subject, is covered by carti- lage, but being closely connected to the tibia by ligaments, it can be moved backwards and forwards only in a slight degree. This head is protuberant and rough on its outside, for the insertion of a ligament and the biceps flexor cruris ; and, be- low the back-part of its internal side, there is a tubercle that gives rise to the strong tendinous part of the solams muscle. The body of this bone is a little crooked inwards and back- wards. The sharpest angle of the fibula is forwards ; on each side of which, the bone is considerably, but unequally depressed. The external surface of the fibula is depressed obliquely