414 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. considerable number of patients in whom the hernia was lodged in the canal, and of some of which I have casts, I have uniformly, by applying to the friends, ascertained that the rupture had taken place in infancy, and had slowly as- sumed the oblique direction. Some of the nurses have even said, that, when immediately after birth, they attempted to re- turn the gut, they found that it had passed through a hole, about large enough to admit the tip of their little finger; but when the child was older, they found it run more to a side. “ In the advanced stage of hernia, the parts are brought into precisely the same state they were in when the disease be- gan. In the congenital hernia, or in the common inguinal hernia taking place in a very young child, the sac passes through a mere aperture, then, in time we have seen, that, owing to changes which this opening undergoes, the gut comes to be lodged in a fully formed Canal. This continues till the tumour becomes large, when the posterior side of the canal is, owing to the pressure, slowly absorbed ; and again the up- per and lower orifices are brought opposite to each other. Again, the hernia resembles, in its appearance and course, the incipient tumour. “ If the view which I have given of the mode of formation of the inguinal canal be correct, it will lead to this conclusion, that we ought, in every case of Hernia in a young child, most sedulously to prevent the descent of the gut; and, if possible, to return also the sac, where it is not congenital rupture; for if we do this, we bid fair to cure the disease, by allowing of the extension of the posterior side of the canal along the cord. This observation leads me to a review of the influence which the different parts of the inguinal canal have in preventing the accession of hernia. “ In the very young child, there is no security against her- nia, except what arises from the cord filling the aperture through which it passes. This is generally sufficient; for the infant is exposed to few of the exciting causes of the dis- ease. “ When, however, the child advances in years, in the course