531 OF THE GASTRIC JUICE. juice on digestion. If vomiting be artificially excited after long fasting, when the cravings of hunger are urgent, these subside, according to Dr Wilson Philip, and the food which is taken a short time afterwards, ferments within the stomach, as is evident by the flatulence it creates, and the accompany- ing acid eructations. A still stronger argument, for the same opinion, is derived from the effects which follow the interrupt- ing the secretion of the gastric juice, by the division of the eighth pair of nerves. Such an experiment puts an end to the digestion of food within the stomach, which, in these cir- cumstances, instead of proving nutritious, provokes constant nausea and vomiting. It is remarkable, and worthy of particular mention, that I I have found repeatedly that the dividing the sympathetic nerves of rabbits, which also supply the stomach, does not in the slightest degree impede digestion. I have found that the secretion of the gastric fluid is also af- o rested by an acute inflammation of the pia mater at the connec- tion of the eighth pair of nerves with the medulla oblongata. There are certain symptoms which characterise such inflam- mation : these are, extreme restlessness, frequent agitation of the body, starting and croupy cough, but which is not ac- companied by difficult breathing, constant nausea, fre- quent vomiting, and the contents of the stomach are rejected unchanged, though they have been ten or twelve hours with- in that organ. The skin is at the same time hot, the face flushed, and the pulse quick and hard. In the progress of the disorder, which generally runs its course in three or four days, the croupy cough goes off, and this is succeeded by symptoms of oppressed brain. The gastric juice has been observed likewise to act still more slowly in those animals, that are, during the winter, in a torpid state, and to have its activity again increased, by ex- posing them to a greater degree of heat *. * My Father, during a severe winter, (17(34), kept a hedgehog in a room where there was no fire, from the month of November till March. He placed near the animal boiled beef, bread, cheese, potatoes, water, and straw. About 1.12