ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 330 There are two thin ligaments (between which there is a bursa mucosa), which arc stretched between the coracoid pro- cess of the scapula, and the middle and under part of the cla- vicle, and between these ligaments and the ligamentum bi- corne, the subclavian muscle is placed. In this front view, the anterior proper ligament of the sca- pula is seen, passing between the coracoid process of the sca- pula and the acromion scapulae. The capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint is fixed by its upper edge to the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and by its lower part to the neck of the os humeri, excepting between the two tubercles. This ligament is of an oblong form, and rather thinner on its inner part than elsewhere, and is made considerably stronger by the tendons of the muscles of the hu- merus, viz. by those of the sub-scapularis, infra-spinatus, supra- spinatus and teres minor, and also at its upper and fore part by ligamentous fibres, which, originating from the outer edge of the coracoid process of the scapula, pass to the larger tu- bercle at the head of the humerus. On removing the capsu- lar ligament, we meet with a thin serous shut sac, in this as in other joints, which is formed by the Synovial Membrane. This membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is reflected over the articular cartilages ; and it also lines, for the space of about an inch, the groove/or the long head of the biceps flexor cubiti, and then passes over the tendon of that muscle. The tendon of the long head of the biceps passes through the joint of the os humeri, and is confined within the groove in the os humeri situated between its tubercles, by a ligamen- tous sheath. The tendon of the biceps muscle gives addi- tional strength to the upper part of the joint. On account of the length of the capsular ligament of the os humeri the movements at the shoulder-joint are very extensive, and gene- rally combined with those of the shoulder. Back View. The proper posterior ligament of the scapula is flat and compact, and stretched across the semilunar notch of that bone, and forms that notch into an aperture for the superior and posterior bloodvessels and nerves of the scapula.