ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 146 tween the middle of the lesser arch and the great hole, the little.hollow marks of the recti mi nones appear; and, on each side of these, the bone is imprinted by the fleshy insertions of the obliqui superiores and recti majores. Through the middle of the two arches a small sharp spine is placed. All round the great foramen the edges are un- equal, for the firmer adhesion of the strong circular ligament which fixes it to the first vertebra. One end of each la- teral or moderator ligament of the head, is fixed to a rough surface at the fore-part of each condyle, and the perpendicu- lar one is connected to a rough part of the edge of the great hole between the two condyles. Immediately before the con- dyles, there are two little depressions made on the external surface of tire cuneiform process for the insertion of the recti anteriores minores muscles : And still farther forward, nearer the sphenoid bone, are two other such depressions, for the reception of the recti anteriores majores. The muscles which pull the head backwards, are stronger than those which bend it forwards; and acquire greater force by the long lever they act with, than the latter, which are inserted so near the con- dyles. This great force in the extensor muscles is altogether necessary, not only to keep the head from falling forward, in an erect posture, but also to support it when we bow forward, when the weight of the head comes to act at right angles on the vertebras of the neck, and with the advantage of a longer lever. There are, on the inner surface of the os occipitis, two ridges ; one is perpendicular, the other running horizontally across the first. The upper part of the perpendicular limb of the cross, to which the falx is fixed, is hollowed in the middle, or often on one side, for the reception of the superior longitudinal sinus, and the lower part of it has the small or third process of the dura mater fastened to it, and is some- times hollowed by the occipital sinus. Each side of the ho- rizontal limb is made hollow by the lateral sinuses inclosed in the transverse process of the dura mater; the fossa in the right side being generally a continuation of the one made by the longitudinal sinus in the perpendicular limb, and there-