OF THE TIBIA. 277 there is a circular flat surface, covered in a recent subject with cartilage, for the articulatioa.of the fibula;—between which, and the anterior knob, there is a rough hollow, from which the tibialis anticus, and the extensor digitorum longus, take their origin. From the smooth flat surface, a ridge runs obliquely down- wards and inwards, from which a part of the solaeus, tibialis posticus, and flexor digitorum longus, take their rise. At the inside of this ridge, an oblique plain surface is left, where the greatest part of the musculus poplitaeus is inserted. The re- maining body of the tibia is triangular. The anterior angle is very sharp, and is commonly called the spine or skin. This ridge is not straight; but turns first inwards, then out- wards, and lastly, inwards again. The internal side is smooth, but the external side is hol- lowed above by the tibialis anticus muscle, and below by the extensor digitorum longus and extensor pollicis longus. The two angles behind these sides are rounded ; the posterior sur- face comprehended between them is flat. Some way above the middle of the bone, the internal angle terminates. Near to this, the passage of the medullary vessels is seen slanting obliquely downwards. The lower end of the tibia is hollow, and a small protube- rance rises from its middle. The internal side of this cavity, which is smooth, and in a recent subject is covered with car- tilage, is prolonged into a considerable process, commonly named malleolus interims; the point of which is divided by a notch, and from it ligaments are sent out to the foot. The internal malleolus is situated more forwards than the internal condyle of the upper end of this bone; which is necessary to be remembered in reducing a fracture of the leg *. In cases of violence, both bones of the leg are generally broken. The fracture is generally transverse, but sometimes oblique. The degree of displacement of the broken pieces of the bone, depends, in some measure, ypon the direction of the • Wnwiow, Exposition Anatomique des Os sees. Sect. 265.