OF THE HUMAN STOMACH. 517 moderately distended, bears some resemblance to a cone, bent upon itself, the base of which is on the left side of the body. There is no organ in the human body which varies so much as to its form, size, and situation, at different periods of life, and in the different sexes. It is generally rounder and more capacious in the male than in the female, and is proportionally shorter and rounder in the infant than in the adult. Use seems to have considerable influence over the form of several of the bowels; hence the different form and capacity which, during the progress of life, takes place in the stomach, intes- tines, and bladder of urine. The healthy stomach of an adult, at an average, may be stated to be capable of holding about 8 lb. or 12 lb. of water; but, by disease, it is often so much reduced in bulk, as not to be capable of containing above a few ounces. On the other hand, it is sometimes, like the heart, intestines, and bladder of urine, much expanded, where there is a mechanical obstruction to the exit of its contents. The stomach is commonly laid transversely across the body, between the liver and spleen, and is retained in that si- tuation by the gullet, duodenum, arch of the colon, omen- tum, reflected peritonaeum, and by the bloodvessels common to it and to the liver, spleen, pancreas and omentum. The stomach has a left, or larger, or cardiac, extremity, which is situated in the left hypochondriac region, in contact with the diaphragm and spleen, and a smaller right or pyloric extremity, which lies under the left lobe of the liver, is placed in the epigastric region, and approaches more or less to the right hypochondrium, in proportion to its distention. But there are many exceptions to the above description of the situation of the stomach. Even when that organ, and al- so the contiguous parts, were not under the influence of dis- ease, I have seen it laid wholly on the left side of the body. When there is a mechanical obstruction at the pylorus, it sometimes attains, from the weight of its contents, a most ex- traordinary bulk. The pylorus, then, lies at the navel; and instead of being placed transversely, the stomach lies in the contrary direction.