292 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Of tlie Metatarsus. The Metatarsus is composed of five bones, which are of an irregular form. They may be distinguished from the metacarpal bones, by the following marks: 1. They are long- er, thicker and stronger. 2. Their anterior round ends are not so broad, and are less in proportion to their bases. 3. Their bodies are sharper above, and flatter on the sides, with their inferior ridge inclined more to the outside. 4. The tubercles at the lower parts of the round head are larger. The first or internal metatarsal bone is distinguished from the rest by its thickness. The one next to it is the longest, and with its sharp edge almost perpendicular- The others are shorter and more oblique, as their situation is more ex- ternal. These general remarks, with the description I am now to give of each, may teach us to distinguish them from each other. The os metatarsi pollicis, which sustains the greatest share of the weight of the body, is the thickest and strongest of these bones., Its base is oblong, irregularly concave, and of a semilunar figure, to be adapted to the os cuneiforme maxi- mum. The inferior edge of this base is a little prominent and rough, where the tendon of the peronaeus primus muscle is inserted. On its outside an oblique circular depression is made by the second metatarsal bone. Its round head has generally on its fore part a middle ridge, and two oblong- cavities, for the ossa sesamoidea; and on the external side, a depression is made by the following bone. The os metatarsi of the second toe is the longest of the five, with a triangular base, supported by the os cuneiforme medium, and the external side produced into a process; the end of which is an oblique smooth plane, joined to the os cuneiforme externum. There are two slight depressions, near to the internal edge of the base, made by the os cunei- forme maximum, between which is a rough cavity. On the outside of the base are two oblong smooth surfaces, for its articulation with the following bone ; the superior smooth sur-