366 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. in the temporal, subscapularis, or great pectoral, they con- verge from their origins towards their insertions. If the edges and middle parts of such muscles are in the same plane, they co-operate, of which the temporal and tra- pezius may be examples. But, in others, as in the deltoid, the fibres are not in the same plane, but inclose a joint, and its oblique sides may be antagonists to its middle in one pos- ture of the arm, viz. its hanging posture, but may co-operate with it when the arm is elevated. 3. In many muscles the fibres are parallel, or nearly so, to each other, but are laid obliquely between tendinous mem- branes, or between a bone and a tendinous membrane; and as their fleshy fibres resemble, in their direction, the plumage on one side of the stalk of a feather, they have been called semipenniform muscles. The flexors and extensors of the whole hand or foot, and the flexors and extensors of the fin- gers and toes, furnish striking examples of this kind of struc- ture. 4. In some places the fleshy fibres run from both sides ob- liquely downwards, or obliquely upwards, to a tendon in the middle of the muscles, resembling, in their direction, the plu- mage on both sides of the stem of a feather; and, hence, such are called complete penniform muscles. The flexor longus pollicis pedis (see Albinus) is an example, in which the fibres descend; and the rectus extensor cruris an example in which they ascend, from the sides of the muscle to the middle ten- don. When we compare a complete penniform muscle with a semipenniform muscle of the same breadth and thickness, as the number of its fibres is double, its strength will also be double to that of the semipenniform muscle. 5. We may next observe a combination of semipenniform muscles in the extensors of the fore-arm or leg, or compound semipenniform muscles. 6. In the soleus, we find a combination of complete penni- form muscles, or a compound penniform muscle. 7. In many other places we find oblique muscles co-operat- ing, although they are not joined to each other by common tendons; as is the case of the two rows of intercostal muscles;