ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 226 the skulls of the New Hollander and Negro from Africa. The cranial part of the skull of the former is larger, but more depressed on each side of the sagittal suture. The os frontis is not so much depressed; the frontal sinuses are more marked ; the temporal fossa? are not so deep as in the Negro and Carib; and the temporal muscle does not take its rise so high on the side of the head ; the nose is scarcely so flat; the upper-jaw bone is not lb large and prominent; the incisor teeth are not so oblique ; those of the upper-jaw do not project beyond those of the under-jaw; and the under-jaw does not retreat as in the Negro skull. Still more remarkable differences may be observed in other parts of the skeleton *, which leads me to observe, that the aborigines of New Holland are probably not of Ethiopian ori- gin ; they have not the woolly hair of the African, and are far less intelligent. They had neither houses nor clothing; were totally ignorant of agriculture, and did not practise any one of the arts of civil life. Though much pains has, for thirty years, been taken to instruct them, not one of them has been induced to avail himself of his education ; and, indeed, those who in early life have had the advantage of education, gene- rally flee to the woods, when they arrive at manhood. In short, they hold a much lower place in the scale of being. The natives of Van Dieman’s Land bear a strong resem- blance to those of New Holland ; but they differ from them in having woolly hair; in being still less disposed to civiliza- tion, and in being inferior in point of intellect. According to Collins, they do not worship the sun, moon or stars. “ I never,” says he, “could discover any object, either substantial or imaginary, that impelled them to the com- mission of good actions, or deterred them from the perpetra- tion of what we deem crimes. There, indeed, existed among them some idea of a future state, but not connected in any- wise with religion, for it had no influence whatever on their lives and actions.” Peron has described them as without chiefs; without laws or regular government; without arts of any kind; as possess- * Vide Supra, p. 23. and S2-