Of THE LIGAMENTS OF THE CARPUS. 337 nientous crust, the fibres of which follow different directions, and which extends along the under part of the bone, to the lower extremity of the ossa coccygis. By the larger external ligament, the large notch in the ilium is converted into a hole for the passage of the pyriform mus- cle, the great sciatic nerve, and the gluteal arteries. The most important ligaments of the pelvis are two strong ligaments, of unequal size, situated at the under aperture of the pelvis, and which have been called, on account of their si- tuation, sacro-sciatic, as they are placed between the os sa- crum and os ischium. The longer arises from the back of the crest of the os ilium, from the transverse process of the os sa- crum, from the back part of the same bone, and also from the ossa coccygis, and is fixed to the ligamentous crust which covers the tuberosity of the os ischium. That portion of this ligament, which is attached to the back part of the spine of the os ilium, being thinner than the other portions of the same ligament, has been called its mem- branous part, or appendix; and the inferior portion of the same ligament, which descends in the form of a sickle, along the inner part of the tuber ischii, with its concavity looking inwards, and with its narrow end directed upwards, towards the descending ramus of the pubis, has been called, on account of its shape, the falciform process of the sacro-sciatic liga- ment. The shorter sacro-sciatic ligament takes its origin front the side of the os sacrum and ossa coccygis, and is fixed to the spine of the ischium. The muscle called obturator interims passes between the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The large holes in the back part of the os sacrum, are in a great measure filled by ligaments, which pass from one tuber- cle to another, and the back part of the ossa coccygis is co- vered by ligaments which pass along these in a longitudinal direction, and which are fixed into the extremity of the last bone of the os coccygis *. • Lodkr’s Plates, xxi. and xxii. which represent the Ligaments of the Pel- vis, are very faithful copies of Nature. vor,. r. Y