elements of anatomy1. 324 not, atter two years had elapsed, observe any difference either in its size or mobility. 13. I would, in the last place, observe, that the burs® and ligaments correspond remarkably in having little sensibility in a sound state of the body, and in acquiring a great degree of sensibility by inflammation *. That ligaments in a sound state have little sensibility, ap- pears, in the first place, from the inconsiderable pain which often attends the relaxation of bones. In which case, however, it may be proved, from a variety of circumstances, that the liga- ments are lacerated ; but particularly because I found, by va- rious experiments which I made on the human body, so long ago as the year 1754, and mentioned since that time in my lectures, that it is impossible, even in children, to dislocate the humerus, which is loosely articulated, without laceration of its capsular ligament, although the joint be previously re- laxed by soaking it in tepid water. This fact of the small sensibility of ligaments, is still more clearly proved by the experiments of Dr Haller; who, in living animals, not only punctured the ligaments, but after doing so, poured oil of vitriol and other caustic substances in- to the cavities of the joints, without giving such pain to the animals as produced a sensible expression of it. To which we may add, that, in a few operations, in which, after extract- ing cartilaginous bodies from the cavity of the joint of the knee, the member was kept at rest and the wound carefully dressed, the wound closed without giving pain f. On the other hand, we may not only observe violent pain * The nerves of the ligaments of most joints are so minute, that they cannot be traced by dissection ; but, in some few places, nerves can be traced into liga- ments, and particularly at the back part of the wrist, I find in all subjects a nerve adhering to the outer side of the ligament, which I have delineated in Tab. 20'. of my work on the Structure and Functions of the Nervous System. f See Pf.chlin Obs. Ph. Med.—Dr D. Monro on Dropsy, p, 170.—Two cartilaginous bodies, one of which is in my possession, were cut, in 177b, from the joint of the same knee, by W. Ingms and Mr F. Dewar, surgeons in Edinburgh.