75 OF THE SPINE. vertebrae of the loins are the longest and thickest; but these processes are less prominent in the first and last lumbar ver- tebrae, lest the ribs or ossa innominata and muscles coveridg these, had been injured during the movements of the spine. The epiphyses which encircle the edges of the bodies of the two inferior vertebrae are deeper than in the other ver- tebrae ; hence their greater hollowness in the middle. The body of the fifth lumbar vertebra is rather thinner than that of the fourth. The spinal processes of the fifth are smaller, and the oblique processes face more backwards and forwards than in the other lumbar vertebrae. From what has been stated as to the intimate conjunction of these lumbar vertebrae, it is evident they cannot be dis- joined excepting in consequence of great violence, and ex- cepting the processes be at the same time broken. This opinion which I have always stated, has been con- firmed by the observations of that very experienced surgeon Sir A. Coopee, who has observed : “ I have never witnes- sed a separation of one vertebra from another, through the intervertebral substance, without fracture of the articular processes, or, if those processes remain unbroken, without fracture through the bodies of the vertebrae In the unedited manuscript of my grandfather, he has stated: “ I have seen the thickness of one side of one or more vertebrae mistaken for a luxation, and it seems long to have been so mistaken, otherwise such violent methods would not have been proposed for the reduction as you may see in Scul- tetcs. The symptoms of the two diseases are so far the same, that in both there is a preternatural curvature of the spine, with an appearance of thickness on one side of the vertebra, that they can both give very violent pain to the patient, that they can both produce a palsy in all the parts below where the tumor is, with involuntary excretion of faeces and urine; but then there is no manner of difficulty in distinguishing the one from the other. When there is a luxation, the curva- ture is made at once by some violence or quick twist of the Vide Treatise on Dislocations and Fractures, p. 539.