OF THE SKULL. 125 and also the impossiblity of distinguishing when the external table of the skull only has been divided by the trepan. The cranium of the adult consists of eight bones; only six of which are said to be proper, and the other two are com- mon to it and the face. The six proper, are the osJrontis, two ossa parietaUa, two ossa temporum, and the os occipitis. The common are the os ethmoides and os sphcnoides. The os Jrontis might also be enumerated as being common to the cranium and bones of the face. The os frontis forms the whole fore part of the vault; the twro ossa parietalia form the upper and middle part of it; the ossa temporum compose the lower part of the sides ; the ;os occipitis makes the whole hinder part, and a part of the base; the os ethmoides is placed in the fore part of the base, and the os sphenoides is placed across the middle of it. These bones are joined to each other by five sutures; viz. the coronal, lambdoid, sagittal, and two squamous. The coronal suture * extends over the head, from within an inch or so of the external canthus of one eye, to the like distance from the other. The indentations of this suture are conspicuous in its upper part, but it is squamous and smooth for an inch or more on each side towards its extremity. The lambdoidal suture begins some way below, and further back, than the vertex or crown of the head, whence its two legs are stretched obliquely downwards on each side, in form of the Greek A, and extend to the base of the skull. This suture is sometimes diverted from its usual course by small and irregularly shaped bones, called Ossa Triquetra, which are generally larger and more conspicuous on the exter- nal surface of the skull than internally. In the chronic form of hydrocephalus, a great number of ossa triquetra are formed, (Vide Plate XXI. in my Outlines of Anatomy), in order that the softer parts may be better protected; and before these small bones are consolidated to the rest of the skull, they yield * So named in consequence of being placed where the ancients applied their corona;.