281 OF THE PATELLA. ner, the wonderful accommodation of bones to each other. The ankle-joint had jeen dislocated, and the fibula had been broken. The broken portion of the fibula had been com- pletely detached, but had been re-united to the shaft of the bone, and was placed laterally, in respect to the ankle-joint. The end of the fibula, from which the broken piece had been detached, formed a new joint with the astragalus. The tibia had been dislocated forwards and inwards, and where the displaced end of the bone was in contact with the astra- galus there also was a new joint. Of the Rotula or Patella. The Rotula is the small flat bone situated at the fore-part of the joint of the knee. Its shape resembles the common figure of the heart, with its point downwards. The anterior convex of the rotula is pierced by a great number of holes, into which fibres of the strong ligament that is spread over it enter. Behind, its surface is smooth, covered with cartilage, and divided by a middle convex ridge into two cavities, of which the external is largest; and both are exactly adapted to the pulley of the os femoris, on which they are placed in the most ordinary unstraining postures of the leg; but when the leg is much bent, the rotula descends far down on the condyles; and when the leg is fully extended, the rotula rises higher in its upper part than the pulley of the thigh-bone. The plain smooth surface is surrounded by a rough promi- nent edge, to which the capsular ligament adheres: Below, the point of the bone is scabrous, where the strong tendinous ligament from the tubercle of the tibia is fixed. The upper horizontal part of this bone, into which the ten- dons of the extensors of the leg are inserted, is flat. The sub- stance of the rotula is cellular, with very thin external firm plates: But then these cells are so small, and such a quantity of bone is employed in their formation, that scarce any bone of its bulk is so strong. Besides, it is covered with the tendi- nous aponeurosis common to the extensor muscles of the leg. This bone is sometimes lacerated by the violent action of the