ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 104 the bones to arise solely from the relaxation of the liga- ments. Most English authors on Midwifery, are of opinion that there is no separation of the bones during labour. If there had been a separation of the bones of the pelvis, even the raising the one thigh above the other must have created pain, and the patient could not have walked for a consider- able time ; and if complete disunion had taken place, it might be perceived by the jarring created by grasping between the fingers the symphysis pubis, and raising the thigh. From the number of specimens of anchylosis of the symphysis pubis, and also, at the sacro-iliac symphysis, in the Museum of the University, I am led to conclude, that an inflammation of these joints is no unfrequent sequel of the pregnant state, which inflammation has probably occasioned the anchylosis. Writers on Midwifery make mention of this inflammatory state, which may be distinguished by acute pain in the lower •part of the belly, increased on motion, by deranged state of the alimentary canal, and by the accession of fever. Of the Pelvis of the Foetus. The form of the cavity of the pelvis of the infant is widely different from that of the adult, for the longest diameter is be- tween the os sacrum and the symphysis pubis. About the period of puberty, the oblique and lateral dia- meters are equal. In very early life the pelvis somewhat resembles a cone, of winch the coccyx and tuberosities of the ischia form the apex, and the ilium the base, or the proportions of the infant pelvis are precisely opposite to those of the pelvis of the adult. • The bladder of urine of the foetus may be said to be in part lodged within the abdomen, and also that portion of the larger intestine which has commonly been called intestinum rectum. There is a circumstance which I observed respect- ing that bowel, which I believe has escaped the notice of ana- tomists ; that the intestinum rectum of a young foetus does not so exactly as in the adult follow the sweep of the os sacrum, for the lower half of it forms a portion of a scimcncle, the •convexity of which is towards the bladder of urine.