OF THE BONES. 35 and all the fibres, may be regarded as resisting at the dis- tance of one semidiameter or radius from this axis, that is, in the centre. 3d, Since the united force of all the fibres is to be regarded as resisting at a distance from the centre of motion equal to the semidiameter, it follows, that the total resistance of all these fibres, or the strength of the bone, is proportional to its semidiameter, and consequently to its diameter. I have here taken for an example, one of the most simple cases for calculating the proportional strength of bones. But, were it not too foreign to the present design, it might be easily demonstrated, that, of whatever figure bones are, and in whatever manner their fibres are disposed, their strength must always be in a ratio, compounded of the area of their transverse sections, or of their quantity of bony matter, and of the distance of the centre of gravity of these sections, from the centre of motion, or fulcrum on which the bone is sup- posed to turn when broken *. Since, therefore, the strength of bones depends on their number of fibres, or quantity of matter, and the largeness of their diameters, we may conclude, that the part of a bone formerly fractured, and reunited by a callus, must be stronger than it was before the fracture happened ; because both these advantages are obtained by a callus. It may not be improper to add, that although a bone from being hollow resists, in a greater degree, such foi'ces as tend to break it transversely, because the corresponding fibres are at a greater distance from the immoveable centre on which they turn, and therefore resist more, from their gaining the advantage of a longer lever; yet we are to observe, that where a bone is pressed in, as by the wheel of a cart, or beat in by the stroke of a stone, or of a bullet, its resistance is lessened by its hollowness, because the impelling force acts with the advantage of a longer lever. Thus, a small glass phial is perhaps strong enough to support a man’s weight, but a larger • See the demonstration of this theorem by Dr Porterfield in the Edinburgh Medical Essays, vol. i. art. 10. c 2