OF THE LIGAMENTS. 811 -capsular ligament is much longer than at the hip-joint, where the motions are much more limited. The capsular ligaments are strengthened by tendons, with which they are in many cases intimately interwoven. Ge- nerally speaking, the capsular ligaments of the inferior extre- mities are stronger than those of the superior. The capsular ligaments are thinner under the muscles which cross them, than elsewhere,—a sufficient proof that the joint derives security from the muscles which pass over it. Besides, there are irregular ligamentous bands dispersed over the capsular ligaments, which add considerably to their strength. But where the movements of the joints are more limited,—where flexion and extension only are performed, the capsular ligament is strengthened at its sides, by the addition of ligamentous bands, which have been commonly called La- teral Ligaments, and these are firmly interwoven with the pe- riosteum. These pass between the bones of a joint, or from one part of a bone to another, and are always found in the joints like a hinge. These lateral ligaments moderate, and in some measure re- gulate, the movements of the joints. The capsular ligaments are sometimes extremely relaxed, in consequence of the secre- tion of an unnatural quantity of synovia, which has been ab- sorbed. The capsular ligament of some of the joints which possess a rotatory motion, as that of the shoulder-joint, is so loose as to admit of the head of the bone being placed upon the edge of the socket, or being subluxated, without tearing, and which generally can be effected only by considerable vio- lence, though I have met with a few exceptions to this, in puny scrofulous children. The second class includes those ligaments which unite the bones which do not move upon each other ; as the os sacrum, and os innominatum. The third class includes those ligaments which supply the place of tendons, and these possess a much greater share of elasticity than the other ligaments, and therefore save muscu- lar power; such are the ligaments between the spinous pro- cesses of the vertebrae.