581 USES OF THE BILE. son for believing, that the effusion of bile into the cavity of the abdomen is attended with great immediate danger. Al- though, in jaundice, the serum is deeply charged with bile, without creating any immediately dangerous symptoms, yet even a small quantity of healthy bile getting into the stomach, produces severe nausea and vomiting. It may be farther re- marked, that Cholera Morbus is a dangerous disease, al- though it be occasioned by eating acid fruits, and unconnect- ed with any previous disease of the liver. My Father, in order to learn the effect of bile, by means of a trocar, injected bile, taken from the gall-bladder of an ox, into the cavity of the abdomen, and found that it proved fatal in a short time. Experiment 1.—1773, July 3. He injected half of the bile in an ox’s gall-bladder into the cavity of the abdomen of a brown rabbit. It screamed immediately thereafter, as if much pained; soon grew languid, so as scarcely to be able to walk; and died about two hours thereafter. On opening its body next day, all the bowels were wet with bile, but not above a quarter of an ounce of it could be collected. A good deal of it was effused between the skin and muscles of the ab- domen. There was no appearance of inflammation in the bowels; and I need scarcely add, that tire white of the eye was not discoloured in so short a time. Experiment 2.—1773, July 3. He squirted the other half of the bile in the ox’s gall-bladder, under the skin, on one side of a white rabbit. It seemed a good deal hurt, and screamed aloud. After an hour it ran about the room with great agi- lity. Next morniag it was found dead. There was no yel- low colour certainly distinguishable in the eyes, the fat, or bones. The skin and muscles, where the bile was lodged in the cellular membranes, did not appear to be inflamed. Experiment 3.—1773, July 13. He made two small holes in the skin, on each side of the spine of a pig, through which he injected into the cellular membranes 10 or 12 ounces of ox- gall. The animal was, in a few minutes, affected by this to such a degree as not to be able to walk, and scarcely to crawl out of the place in which it was laid. Soon after, it began to