5lAll ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The most remarkable circumstance in the history of the- gastric juice is, that its power is purely chemical; for it ope- rates as powerfully upon the animal fibre out of the body, as within the stomach of a living animal; and actually is some- times observed to dissolve the stomach itself after death. From this fact, it is obvious, that its operation is confined to the dead animal fibre, and that it has no effect upon the living. This inference may appear to some contradicted, by an experiment of Dr Stevens, who inclosed a living leech within a silver hollow ball, which the stone-eater swallowed. Upon examining the leech within the hollow sphere, after it passed through the alimentary canal of the stone-eater, it was- found to be nearly dissolved ; for nothing remained except a viscid black mass. This experiment, though ingenious, is not perfectly conclu- sive of the fact in question, as the leech was probably killed within the stomach, and afterwards acted upon by the gastric juice, like dead annual substances. The gastric juice possesses another very remarkable pro- perty ; it is antiseptic, and arrests the process of putrefaction in substances in which it had begun. In short, the gastric juice is not a diluent, but a solvent; and the solvent power of the gastric juice is different in diffe- rent animals. In the herbivorous animals, it dissolves vege- the beginning of December, the hedgehog was affected with an unusual degree of drowsiness. He, however, continued to eat, though more sparingly, till the 25th of that month. From that time till the 8th day of March following, he continued in a profound sleep, except when artificially roused. After being thus roused, he soon walked back to his place of retreat, and resumed his dormant state. On the 25th of December, he weighed thirteen ounces and three drachms ; on the 6th of Februaiy, eleven ounces and seven drachms; and, on the 8th of March, eleven ounces and three drachms. There was a small quan- tity of feeulent matter and urine among the hay. At the time of his actual re- viviscence, no person was present; and, of course, the circumstances attending it are unknown. In the course of three months, the hedgehog neither ate nor. drank, but remained constantly in a profound sleep among the straw. Its limbs, however, were never rigid ; but it lost two ounces of its weight. Frogs, which my Father kept during the winter in a vessel with water, seemed to be ui a simiar state with that of the hedgehog.