126 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. inwards when pressed upon, which circumstance has led some parents to suppose the skull had been fractured. Ossa triquetra are sometimes seen in the other sutures, and sometimes in one table of the skull, but not in the other * The sagittal suture is situate in the middle of the upper part of the skull, between the coronal and lambdoid sutures ; between which it is said to be placed, as an arrow is between the string and bow : frequently it is continued through the middle of the os frontis, down to the root of the nose ; which, according to some *f*, oftener happens in women than in men. In old persons, the sutures are generally imperceptible; and sometimes even in the meridian of life. The sutures are sometimes double. I have also seen two squamous sutures on each side of the head ; and in the skull of an Esquimaux the lambdoidal suture was double. The squamous or false sutures, are one on each side, a little above the ear, of a semicircular figure, formed by the overlapping (like one scale upon another) of the upper part of the temporal hones on the lower part of the parietal, where, in both bones, there are a great many small risings and furrows, which are indented into eacEother; though these inequalities do not appear till the bones are separated. In some skulls, indeed, the indentations are as conspicuous ex- ternally as in other sutures J : and what is commonly called the posterior part of this squamous suture, always has the evident serrated form ; and therefore is reckoned by some || a distinct suture, under the name of additamentum posterius suturoc squamosce. I have seen two squamous sutures on the same temple, with a semicircular piece of bone between them §. The true squamous sort of suture joins all the edges of the bones on which each temporal muscle is placed: for the two parts of the sphenoidal suture which are continued from the • Hunauld. in Mem. dc l’Acad. des Sciences, 1730. •f Riolan. Comment, de Ossib. cap. 8. J Columb, de Re Anat. lib. 1. cap. 4. Dionis, Anat. 3, Cemons. de Oss. || Albin. de Ossib. Sect. 54, § Sue, Tiaite. d’Osteolog, p. 48.