91 OF THE OS SACRUM. uientous membrane stretched over it, which, with the muscles that cover it, and are very prominent on eacli side, is a suffi- cient defence for the bundle of nerves within. In some cases there is only one spinous process, or the whole canal is open behind in the adult; hence the great dan- ger that may result from a wound with a sharp pointed in- strument near to the end of the sacrum. I have seen the up- per part of the spinal canal of the os sacrum open while the under part was shut, as in the Australasian. Foramina.—At the root of each oblique process of this bone, the notch, meeting with another similar to it, is opposed to a similar notch in the last vertebra of the loins: thus a pas- sage is left for the twenty-fourth spinal nerve: the os sacrum, before or behind, has four large holes in each side, placed at the same height. Some of the largest nerves of the body pass through the anterior holes; and superficial grooves running outwards from them in different directions, indicate the course of these nerves. Between these grooves the pyriformis muscle chiefly rises. The holes in the back part of the bone are covered by mem- branes through which small nerves pass. The two uppermost of these holes, especially on the fore side, are the largest. Sometimes a notch only is formed at the lower part in each side of this bone; and in other subjects there is a hole common to it and the os coccygis, through which the twenty-ninth pair of spinal nerves passes. The upper part of the body of the first bone resembles the vertebrae of the loins; but the small fifth bone is oblong trans- versely, and hollow in the middle of its lower surface. The substance of the os sacrum is very spongy, and is proportionally lighter to its bulk than any other bone in the body. This bone is well protected from external injury, by the thick muscles that cover it behind, and by the strong li- gamentous membranes. This bone is articulated above to the last vertebra of the loins, in the manner that the lumbar vertebra? are joined; and therefore the same motions may be performed here. The articulation of the lower part of the os sacrum to the 2