ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 266 cylinder. This bone is placed obliquely in man, and the ob- liquity of the shaft of the bone has a reference to his erect position, and is owing to the greater breadth of the human pelvis, and the length of the neck of the thigh bone. Thus the lower extremity of the bone is brought more immediately un- der the pelvis, and proves a more firm column of support; for the axis of the bone coincides with the centre of gravity of the body ; and hence our steps are not only more direct, but also more secure and quick. If the knees had been at a greater distance from each other, we must have been obliged to describe some part of a circle with the trunk of our body in making a long step, and, when one leg was raised from the ground, our centre of gravity would have been too far from the base of the other, and we should consequently have been in hazard of falling ; hence our steps would neither have been straight nor firm ; nor would it have been possible to walk in a narrow path. The form of the thigh-bone, and also the angle which the body of that bone makes w ith its head, are materially diffe- rent in the rickety and healthy child. In the former, the head and neck of the bone form with its body a right angle, having yielded to the weight of the body. Hence, a ricketty child straddles in an unnatural manner in walking or running. But sometimes the angle is very acute ; and I suspect that this case has been mistaken for a re-united fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. The head of this bone, which is the greater portion of a sphere, is unequally divided. Towards its lower internal part, a round rough spongy pit is observable, where the round ligament is fixed. In consequence of the obliquity of the thigh-bone, suffi- cient space is left for the external organs of generation ; and round the root of the neck, where it rises from the bone, a rough ridge is found, where the capsular ligament of the arti- culation itself is connected. The large unequal protuberance, called trochanter major, stands out from below the neck of the bone; the external con-