129 OF THE OS FRONT IS. Mr Chaxtkkv, the celebrated sculptor, pointed out to me, in the profile of the Apollo Belvedere, the great length of the superciliary ridge, which is, in that celebrated statue, much o-reater than ever it is in nature. Hence the orbit must be very O large; and indeed it was the object of the sculptor to make the orbit large, a large eye being reckoned, by the ancient sculptors, very beautiful. It would appear that there is no part of the face in which there was so much of the ideal in ancient sculpture as in the orbit. Very little above the internal end of each of the superci- liary ridges, a protuberance may be remarked, in most skulls, where there are large cavities, called sinuses, within the bone. Betwixt the internal angular processes, there is a small pro* cess which forms a part of the nose, and thence is named nasal. Some observe a protuberant part on the edge of the bone behind each external angular process, which they call tempo- ral processes. From the under part of the superciliary ridges, the frontal bone runs a great way backwards, to form its orbitar process- es. These are concave externally, for receiving the eye-balls, with their muscles, fat *, &c. Behind the superciliary ridges, and towards the external angular processes, a considerable sinuosity is observed, where the glandula innominata Galeni or laclirymalis is lodged. Behind each internal angular process, a small pit may be remarked, for the attachment of the cartilaginous pully of the musculus obliquus major of the eye. There is a vacant space betwixt the two orbitar processes, into which the cribrifoi-m part of the os etltmoides is inserted. The frontal bone frequently has little caverns formed in it here, where it is joined to the ethmoid bone. Behind each external angular process, the surface of the frontal bone is considerably depressed, where part of the tem- poral muscle is placed. • For a particular account of the orbits, see Camper, Diss. Phys. de quibus- dam octrli part'ibus ; and the 7th chap, of Zinh, Descrip, anat. oculi humani. VOL. I. I