206 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. from the vault at Dunfermline. The skull was of a reddish- brown colour, and very irregular as to its surface. When viewed in profile, the prominences of the frontal sinuses are very conspicuous, above which, the forehead inclines backwards as far as the junction of the frontal and parietal bones. Over the sagittal suture, there is a distinct ridge in the skull, which is slightly arched ; and, towards the back part of that suture, the skull slopes suddenly downwards and backwards, in an oblique direction. The occipital bone is remarkably convex outwardly, and strongly marked. The temporal fossae are deep, and much impressed by the fasciculi of the temporal muscles. The cen- tres of ossification of the parietal bones are prominent. The bones of the face are large, and deeply impressed by the muscles. The orbits are surrounded by thick bone. The zygomatic arches were broad and also high ; so that there is every reason to suppose the temporal muscles had been large and strong. The impressions made by the masseter muscles on the under jaw, were unusually deep. The breadth from one cheek-bone to the other is equal to five inches. The distance from the most prominent part of the occiput to the meatus auditorius externus, is about one inch greater than the distance from the meatus auditorius externus to the most prominent part of the upper jaw-bone. The under jaw is strong and of a square form ; and, when viewed in profile, there is a distinct prominence of the chin. A line drawn downwards from the frontal sinuses along the bones of the face to the alveolar processes of the under jaw-bone is nearly vertical. The angle which the ascending processes of the under-jaw forms with the body of that bone, is nearly a right angle. The skulls of the Germans, Swedes, Russians, and Ita- lians *, are not unlike, according to Scejimeiung. * Mr Penny pennittcA mc~to copy a skult fronra picture by Leonardo da Vinci, which is almost globular. Leonardo himself is represented as having a round head in the print by Bar.toi.ozzi, which is taken from a drawing by Leonardo.