155 OF THE OS SPHENOIDES. The holes on each side of the os sphenoides are six proper, and three common. The first is the round one immediately below the anterior clinoid processes, for the passage of the op- tic nerve, and occular artery. The second is the foramen lace- rum, or large slit between the transverse spinous and orbitar processes : the interior end of which slit is large ; and, as it extended outwards, it becomes narrower. The outer end of it is formed in the os frontis; and, therefore, this might be reck- oned among the common foramina. Through it the third, fourth, the first branch of the fifth, and the greater share of the sixth pair of nerves, and an artery from the internal ca- rotid, go into the orbit. Sometimes a small branch of the ex- ternal carotid enters its end, to be distributed to the dura mater *, and a vein, some call it the venns duct, or Nude’s aqueduct, returns through it to the cavernous sinus. The third hole, situated a little behind the one just now described, is called rotundim, from its shape, which gives passage to the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, or superior maxillary nerve. The fourth is the foramen ovale, about half an inch behind the round hole, the third branch of the fifth pair, or inferior maxillary nerve, goes out; and sometimes a vein from the dura matter passes out here -j*. The fifth hole of this bone, which is small and round, and gives passage to the prin- cipal artery of the dura mater, passes near to the point of the spinous process. The sixth proper hole \ cannot be well seen, till the cuneiform bone is separated from all the other bones of the cranium : for one end of it is hid by a small protuber- ance of the internal plate of the pterygoid process, and by the point of the processus petrosus of the temporal bone. Its ca- nal is extended above the inner plate of the pterygoid pro- cess ; and where it opens into the cavity of the nose, it is con- • WfN.sx.ow, Exposition Anatomique du corps humain, Traite dcs Artcrcs, sect. 60. & de la Tete, sect. 26- T Isgbass. Commentar. in Galen, de Ossib. lib. i. comment. 8. X Vesal. Anat. lib. i. cap. 12. Eustacii. [Tab. 46. Fig. 13. 1G. Vidus Vidius, Anal. lib. ii, cap. 2. Explicat. Tab. 3. & Tab. 5. Fig. 8, 9, 10. lit. O.