ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 68 tenth pair of nerves goes out; this fossa is sometimes covered with bone. The inferior oblique processes, extending from within outwards and downwards, are large, concave, and cir- cular. So that this vertebra, contrary to the other six, re- ceives the bones with which it is articulated both above and below. The transverse processes are not much hollowed or forked, but are longer and larger than those of any other vertebra of the neck, for the origin and insertion of several muscles ; of which those that serve to move this vertebra on the second have a considerable lever to act with, because of the distance of their insertion from the axis of revolution. The hole for the spinal marrow is larger in this than in any other vertebra, lest the spinal marrow should be hurt by the motions of this vertebra on the second one ; hence this is the broadest vertebra of the neck. On account of the peculiar conformation of the condyles of the os occipitis, and of the superior articulating processes of the atlas, 1 he head may be readily moved forwards and back- wards, but scarcely to either side, or in a circular direction. Fractures of this vertebra are very rare. Sir A. Cooper has thus described such a case. “ He (the patient, a boy), was obliged to walk carefully upright, as persons do when car- rying a jveight on the head, and when he wished to examine any object beneath him, he supported his chin upon his hands, and gradually lowered his head to enable him to direct his eyes downwards; but if the object was above him, he placed both his hands upon the back of his head, and very gradually raised it, until his eyes caught the point he wished to see. If, in playing with other children, they ran against him, it pro- duced a shock which caused great pain, and he was obliged to support his chin with his hand, and to go immediately to a table, upon which he placed his elbows, and thus supporting his head, he remained a considerable time until the effects of concussion had ceased. He died about 12 months after the accident, and upon inspection of his body, which was con- ducted by Mr Cline, he found the first vertebra of the neck broken across, so that the dentiform process of the 2d verte-