516 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. There are instances of deficiency of the human brain, and yet the infant has cried, sucked, and lived for a few days; and also many examples in which, by disease, a portion of the brain, lungs, liver, intestines, have been destroyed, but life has been still continued. But an animal can exist for a short period only, without an internal receptacle for food. There have been some monsters (such as the one described by my Father in the Edin. Phil. Trans., vol. iii.) that seem destined to live only as long as they were connected with the mother, blit were totally incapable of independent existence, from ha- ving no stomach. It has been already remarked, that the form, number, and kind of internal receptacle is wonderfully adapted to the pecu- liar kind of food, and to the peculiar circumstances in which an animal is placed,—a fact rendered very obvious by the change of structure the internal receptacle undergoes, upon a change of food. Thus Mr Hunter found, that the stomach of a sea-gull, fed for a year upon grain, acquired a much greater thickness and strength than that of the same bird fed upon its natural food. In the camel, lama, and dromedary, there are reservoirs connected with the stomachs, capable of holding a considerable quantity of water, and which they can at pleasure express, thus rendering these animals capable of existing, for a considerable length of time, without a supply of water. According to Sir Everard Home, when the camel drinks, it conducts the water, in a pure state, into the second cavity, a part of it is retained there, and the rest runs over into the cellular structure of the first, acquiring, in its course, a yellow colour * *. The stomach is a musculo-membranaceous bag, which, when observation. Sir David Dundas of Richmond was so polite as to send to me the body of one of the kangaroos that had died in Kew Gardens. I examined the body of the animal with care ; and at first thought the stomach awanting; but soon afterwards discovered my mistake. Upon tracing the gullet and duode- num, I found that these were connected with an organ in size and form very like to the human colon, which I at the time stuffed, and still possess. * Vide Lect. on Compar. Anat.