ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY, 580 Of the Uses of the Bile. Having considered the source from which the bile is de- rived, and the course which it follows after having been secre- ted, it is necessary in the next place to turn our attention to its various uses. 1. It stimulates the alimentary canal; for when it is se- creted in too small quantity, or if it does not find its way into the duodenum, costiveness follows; and on the other hand when secreted in too large quantitity, vomiting and purging take place. It may perhaps be a question, whether the languor which commonly attends jaundice, be owing to the want of the sti- mulus of the bile upon the alimentary canal, or to its sedative effect upon the whole system, after it is absorbed in greater than common quantity. 2. The bile, in common perhaps with other bitters, blunts acidity. Whether it dissolves in the duodenum, coagula such as that of milk formed by the gastric liquor and acids in the stomach, has not been proved by experiment; but it seems probable, that, iri consequence of its blunting acids, and at the same time stimulating and exciting the action of the intes- tines, clotted milk is not so often observed in the small intestines or stools of children, as might have been expected. Many circumstances concur in proving the very stimulant properties of the bile, when it is effused into the stomach. 3. It appears to me highly probable, especially when wre attend to the joining of the pancreatic duct with the biliary, and consequent intimate mixture of these liquors, that the bile contributes to mix the watery and oily parts of our food; it also probably assists in forming the chyle, in a manner which want of experiment prevents us from being able to 4. As the bile is secreted chiefly by a vessel formed by the union of veins, and in which, therefore, the blood is flowing in a second circle, and remarkably dark in its colour, there is room for suspecting that the system may thus relieve itself, by discharging what is hurtful tb it, by the medium of the bile, or that some part of the bile is excrementitious. There is rea-