OF THE BONES OF THE THUNK. 57 In the following sheets, the Bones of the Trunk are de- scribed in the first place, as these form a basis, to which the bones of the head and extremities are fixed, and on which they > are moved. Of the Bones of the Chest. The trunk of the human body in form, resembles an irre- o-ular cone, of which the broadest end is undermost. It is narrow, and open above, to give passage to the windpipe, gul- let, large bloodvessels of the superior extremities and thoracic duct, and it gradually becomes broader as it descends, and it i -is flattened in front. The form of the thorax corresponds with that of the in- cluded bowels ; and hence the bad consequences resulting from a deformity of any of its component parts. The human chest, in shape, differs essentially from that of the inferior animals,—it is broader, comparatively, from side to side,—the breast-bone is broader and shorter; whereas the chest of quadrupeds seems compressed at the sides, by which, the fore-legs are brought nearer to each other ; and, therefore, . are better calculated to support the weight of the fore part of the trunk of the body. The chest of animals is also deeper from the breast-bone to the spine : the breast-bone is long and narrow ; the ribs, which, in many instances, as in the horse and elephant, are more nume- rous, and are nearer to the bones of the pelvis, and calculated not merely to contain and defend the heart and lungs, but al- so to contain and support the bowels of the belly in the hori- Izontal posture of the animal. The position and movements of the ribs, in respect to the spine, have an evident view to the vital function of breathing. The spine, the basis of the trunk, extends from the occiput 1 to the end of the rump ; and, in many animals, is prolonged j so as to fonn a long tail. The spine somewhat resembles two pyramids of unequal i length, joined by a common basis; and of these, the upper or ! longer is composed of twenty-four bones, which turn or play j upon each other, and hence have been called Vertebrae ; but