OF BILIARY CALCULI. 585 state. It did not melt in boiling water, nor did it ever ap- pear to be softened. Cold alcohol had little effect on it, but hot alcohol rapidly dissolved it; and, on cooling, a copious de- position took place, in the form of minute white crystalline plates. I found, that (>‘40 grains of alcohol, of the specific gravity 0.856, were required to keep a single grain of the cal- culus in solution on cooling; yet, even in this instance, after two or three horn's, part of the grain was deposited. Nitric acid, whilst cold, appeared to produce no change ; yet, when heat was applied, a strong effervescence instantly took place, copious dense red fumes of nitrous gas were evolved, and the calculus melted, or acquired the appearance of a yellowish oil, and swam on the surface. When cooled and thrown into » water, the acid became slightly turbid, and, the fused matter became a soft viscid solid, of a light greenish colour, and ap- peared to differ from its original. It melted in hot water, be- fore the water had acquired the boiling temperature, and even in alcohol before ebullition ; and, it seemed very slightly af- fected by the latter, for, after being boiled in much more than was sufficient for the solution of double the quantity of the calculus, its bulk seemed undiminished; on cooling, there was no immediate deposition ; and on the addition of water, only a slight cloudiness was produced. Thus it ap- pears, that, by the action of nitric acid, the peculiar substance of this concretion is converted into a matter somewhat resem- bling a fixed oil, and most likely by the addition of oxygen. Sulphuric acid immediately rendered the calculus of a dark cochineal red colour, and the acid itself acquired a slight red- dish hue: when heated, it suddenly became very darkly coloured, and emitted sulphurous acid gas. This solution was transparent: held between the light and the eye, its colour seemed dark reddish-brown; and, in the contrary position, dark olive-green. Acetic acid had little, if any effect, on the calculus when cold ; but heated, it produced a speedy solu- tion, and, on cooling, the greatest part was again deposited, though less apparently than from alcohol. Lastly, were tried on the calculus the oxalic and tartaric acid, ammonia, and potash ; but no effect was perceived to be produced. From