OF THE OSSA TEMPORUM. 143 Towards the back part of the inside of the os teniporum there is a large deep fossa for the lateral sinus; and frequent- ly on the top of the petrous ridge, a furrow may be observed, where a small sinus is situated. The internal foramina proper to each of these bones are, first, the internal meatus auditorius in the posterior plain side of the petrous process. This hole soon divides into two; one of which is the beginning of the aqueduct of Fallopius ; the other ends in several very small canals *, that allow a passage to the branches of the portid mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, into the vestibule and cochlea. Through it also an artery is sent, to be distributed to the organ of hearing. The second hole, which is on the anterior plain side of the craggy process, gives passage to a reflected branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, which joins the portio dura of the auditory nerve, while it is in the aqueduct f, small branches of bloodvessels accompanying the nerves, or passing- through smaller holes near this one. The passage of the cu- taneous vein into the lateral sinus, or of a branch of the occi- pital artery, is seen about the middle of the large fossa for that sinus; and the orifice of the canal of the carotid artery is evident at the under part of the point of the petrous pro- cess. Besides these proper holes on the external and internal sur- faces of the temporal bones, there are two others in each side that are common to this bone and to the occipital and sphe- noidal bones. The temporal bones are joined above to the parietal bones by the squamous sutures, and their posterior additamenta : Before, to the sphenoid bone at the suture of that name; to the cheek-bones at the zygomatic sutures : Behind, to the occipital bone, at the lambdoid suture and its additamenta; and they are articulated with the lower jaw, in the manner which shall be described when this bone is examined. * Dr Monro 2d on the Nervous System, tab. xxiv. Dr Monro 2d on the Ear.