FORMATION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL. 415 of its amusements, and afterwards of its business, it is more and more exposed to the causes of hernia. « Nature has, however, wisely provided, that, in proportion to the danger, the security should be increased. The posteri- or side of the canal overlaps every day more and more the an- terior side; consequently, when the canal is completed, any pressure against the posterior side, tending to produce hernia, has the effect of laying that side more firmly in contact with the cord; of forcing the latter steadily against the anterior side, where the fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles react upon it. Thus a most perfect valve is formed, and where the posterior side of the canal is fully extended, it is impossible that inguinal hernia can take place. “ I have already attempted to show, that where the gut has passed down in infancy, it may in the end come to be lodged in a canal; but this is very different from a hernia passing along the canal for the first time in an adult. By the over- lapping of one side of the canal over the other, hernia is pre- vented from primarily taking place in the adult, by the in- ternal orifice of the inguinal canal. “ Although, for the reasons above stated, hernia cannot of- ten, if ever, take place by the upper orifice of the inguinal canal; still were there not some contrivance devised, it might happen, by bursting the posterior side of the canal, opposite the lower orifice. “ The posterior side of the inguinal canal is formed, as was first demonstrated by Sir A. CoorEii, by the transversalis fas- cia, which is thin and dilatable, and, therefore, independent of assistance, affords but a trifling barrier to protrusion. Na- ture has not, however, neglected this point; for, opposite to the inferior opening, she has strengthened the posterior side, by a set of inflected fibres, which arise, as described by Cam- per, from the folded-in lower pillar of the oblique muscle, and run upward, expanding over that portion of the transversalis fascia, opposite to the lower outlet. This affords one securi- ty ; but Nature seems peculiarly solicitous about defending this opening, and has therefore bound the two pillars firmly together, by cross slips, and made to arise from the upper