elements of anatomy. IDO I he internal extremity of the os pubis is rough and unequal, for the firmer adhesion of the thick ligamentous cartilage that connects it to its fellow of the other side: The process which goes down from that to the os ischium, is broad and rough be- fore, where the gracilis and upper heads of the triceps, or ra- ther quadriceps adductor femoris, have their origin. It may also be added, that the ossa pubis, immediately beneath the symphysis, are sometimes depressed to a remarkable degree for the space of about 2 inohes square. The substance of the os pubis is the same as of other broad bones. State at Birth.—In a child born at the full time, a part only of the large end of this bone is ossified, and the whole leg is cartilaginous. In some females, a small bone, in a state of epiphysis, is connected with the spine of the pubis; this bone is quite moveable. Thyroid hole.—Betwixt the os ischium and pubis, a very large irregular hole is left, which, from its resemblance to a door or shield, has been called thyroides. This hole is, ex- cept the niche for the posterior crural nerve, filled up in a re- cent subject with a strong ligamentous membrane, that ad- heres very firmly to its circumference. Thus the pelvis is rendered much lighter, and sufficient space is given for the origin of the external and internal obturator muscles. The bowels sometimes make their way through the forami- na obturatoria. This kind of hernia is often not distinguished till after death, on account of the deep situation of the tumour, and its small size, for it is prevented from extending byr the 1st and 2d heads of the triceps muscle. In the external surface of the ossa innominata, near the outside of the great hole, a large deep cavity, called Acetabu- lum, is formed, by all the three bones conjunctly: For the os pubis constitutes about one-fifth ; the os ilium makes some- thing less than two-fifths, and the os ischium as much more than two-fifths. For the sake of additional security this ca- vity is of considerable depth, especially at its upper back part; and, besides, in the recent body, it has a broad border and