167 OF THE OSSA MAXILLAE IA SUPEItlOltA. subjects, the nasal process has a small round pit above the lacrymal duct, where the little tendon or ligament of the or- bicular muscle of the eye-lids is inserted. It is this tendon, and not the tendon of the larger oblique muscle of the eye, which there is some hazard of cutting in the operation of the fistula lacrymalis. The holes of this bone are two proper and two common, besides several others, the size, and number, &c. of which vary in different individuals. The first of the proper is the external orbitar, immediately below the orbit, by which the infra-orbitar branch of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, and a small artery, come out, after having passed in the canal, at the bottom of the orbit, described Numb. 7. of the depressions. The infra-orbitar nerve in some instances, divides into two branches; in that case there are two canals. The second is the foramen incisivum, just behind the fore- teeth, which, at its under part, is one irregular hole common to both the maxillary bones when they are joined; but, as it ascends, soon divides into two, three, or sometimes more holes; some of which open into each nostril, through which small arteries and veins, and a twig of the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves, pass. The ducts that pass through the foramen incisivum, have been particularly described by my Father :—“ In quadrupeds, as in the ox and sheep, there two large canals open at both ends, and passing obliquely downwards from the nose into the mouth. In far the greater number of human subjects of different ages, I have not been able to find a vestige of such ducts, in the bottom of the nose, or roof of the mouth; but, in a few subjects, I have found them open at both ends, but always very much smaller than in the quadruped. In some of these, I passed a bristle very readily from the nose into the mouth. In two or three sub- jects, I first poured quicksilver from the nose through the duc- tus incisivus into the mouth, and then, with a small syringe, injected through it melted wax coloured with vermilion *. In some subjects, Steno’s duct may be traced some way on the * Vide Three Treatises on the Brain, the Eye, and the Ear, p. HA2.