ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 246 groove between the internal protuberance and the internal condyle, the ulnar nerve is lodged. The shoulder-joint is so constructed as to admit of consi- derable latitude of motion, and in different directions ; which depends upon the disproportion as to size between the head of the os humeri, and that of the glenoid cavity; the former being hemispherical, the latter of an oval shape ; and also upon the length, thinness and looseness of the capsular ligament of the joint. The arm may be raised, depressed, and thrown forwards and backwards: and, by the succession of these different motions, a circle may be described. Besides which, the bone rotates round its own axis. But though this can be performed with the round head in all directions; yet, as these vary, the effects upon the body of the bone are very different: For, if the middle of the head be the centre of rotation, as it is when the arm hangs down by the side, the body of the bone is moved only forwards and back- wards ; because the axis of motion of the head is nearly at right angles with the length of the bone *; whereas, when the arm is raised to right angles with the trunk of the body, the centre of motion, and the axis of the bone, come to be in the same straight line; and therefore the body of the os humeri performs the same motion with the head. The shoulder-joint, owing to its peculiar conformation, is more frequently dislocated than any other joint of the hu- man body. According to the register kept at the Hotel Dieu in Paris, the dislocations of the shoulder-joint are equal in number to those of all the others. If the os humeri had rested upon an immovable bone, dis- locations at the shoulder-joint must have been still more fre- quent; whereas the scapula yields, and thereby the effect of external violence is eluded to a certain degree. But every part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint is not equally thin and equally liable to be torn : it is strengthened above by the deltoid muscle, by the tendons cf Hiitociut. etc Articul. ยง 1.