OF THE STRENGTH OF MUSCLES. 363 short contractions of the muscles, which may be often repeat- ed, create less fatigue than a longer contraction. By this contrivance, which is also conducive to the elegance and symmetry of the body, there is a sacrifice of force to at- tain velocity. Thus, the insertions of the biceps flexor cubiti, and brachia- lis internus, are at an average not more than an inch and a half distant from the elbow-joint, the fulcrum on which the fore-arm moves; and therefore a weight placed in the hand, is at a distance eight times greater from the elbow-joint.: hence, if 50 lb. can be raised on the hand, it is with a force with which 400 lb. conld have been raised, had the muscle been applied to the extremity of the hand. Further, as the biceps and brachialis internus pull their origins downwards, with as much force as their insertions up- wards, it is evident, that if we suppose these muscles to be thrown over a pulley, they could raise 400 lb. at each end, or in all 800 76., a weight which would certainly have torn these muscles in a dead person ; so prodigious is the difference between the strength of the muscles in the living and the dead. In the living body, by a sudden exertion, the tendons are more frequently lacerated than the flesh; but in the dead body, the belly of the muscle is generally torn ; and I have ob- served, that when the inferior extremities had not been laid straight after death, as in the bodies of persons that had been hanged, and had become rigid in that bent posture, the muscles were torn by extending the limbs; and the rigidity which had taken place must probably have shortened and fixed all the fleshy fibres equally, so that we can scarcely sup- pose that one fibre was torn after another. It has been attempted by Mr Graham, Dr Desaguliers, Mr Le Roy, and Mr Regnier *, to calculate, by means of a spring steel-yard, the force of muscles of animals and men, • Vide Experiments made with Regnier’s spring steel-yard, or dynamometer, by Perov, in order to compare the strength of Europeans with that of the in- habitants of New Holland and the adjacent islands Pcron's Voyages.