575 OF THE GALL-BLADDER. Of the Coats of the Gall-Bladder. Anatomists do not agree as to the number of coats proper to the gall-bladder. Some have described only two coats, the peritoumal and mucous coats. Others have added a third or cellular coat. In my opinion, there are four coats proper to the gall-bladder, viz. a peritonseal coat; a thin stratum of mus- cular fibres, passing in different directions, which are of a very pale colour; a cellular coat, in which a number of blood- vessels are situated; and an internal mucous coat, which is ga- thered into a number of folds, so as to form an appearance somewhat like the cells of a honeycomb, which are of various sizes, and are very small at the neck of the gall-bladder. The muscular structure of the gall-bladder has been de- nied, because it is not obvious to our imperfect senses; but if the gall-bladder adapts itself, on all occasions, to its contents, and assists in expelling these, and also contracts, in a living animal, when mechanically irritated, which I have seen take place for the space of half an hour, by which it somewhat re- sembled an hour-glass; and if it contracts upon a small gall- stone, as firmly as the bladder of urine, we might, with as much truth, deny the existence of the muscular coat of the bladder of urine, as that of the gall-bladder. In farther proof of the analogy between the structure of the gall-bladder and of the bladder of urine, it may be ob- served, that when gall-stones have been accumulated within the gall-bladder, the fibrous appearance is, as in a bladder of urine containing a urinary calculus, more apparent than in a state of health. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder is gathered up into a number of folds, which cross each other, so that there are upon the mucous lining of the gall-bladder, a number of ridges, and within these there are still smaller ridges ; hence the inner membrane of the gall-bladder bears some resem- blance to the inner membrane of the stomach, but on a smaller scale. The inner membrane of the gall-bladder is largely supplied with bloodvessels, and assumes, in consequence of inflamma-