OF THE DEFORMED FEMALE FELVIS. 8? of the body, the tuberosities of the ossa ischia, of opposite sides, approach each other. In short, the soft pelvis placed between two forces, com- pressing it in opposite directions, receives and retains the im- pression of these. The rami, forming the angle of the pubis, in two of the specimens, were in form like the letter S, and in one of the specimens they were in contact near an inch and a half un- der the symphysis pubis, and then retreated from each other, forming a portion of a circle, the concavities of which looked towards each other ; and about half an inch above the tubero- sities of the ossa ischia, they came almost into immediate con- tact with each other. But, in another specimen, in which all the bones of the body were very much distorted, the tuberosities of the ossa ischia were more distant from each other than in a well-formed pelvis. Lastly, From the os sacrum being quite straight, the cavity of the pelvis is reduced below the natural standard, though the brim and outlet are sufficiently large. “ We shall next consider in what way the pelvis may be made wider for the passage of the child.” “ Mr StGAUT/r has, in 1768, suggested an operation for this purpose, in which the symphysis of the ossa pubis is divided, with a thin scalpel; after which, using the thigh-bones, bend- ed to a right angle with the trunk of the body, as levers, the ossa innominata are pushed asunder, and the ligaments join- ing them to the os sacrum stretched, as is said ; but, in reality, not only the cartilages which glue them to the sacrum, but the capsular ligaments, must be, in some degree, lacerated.'” “ By this operation, the ossa pubis might be separated from each other one inch or more ; and of course the tubera of the ossa ischia will be separated from each other about one-half of that space, and the sides of the transverse diameter of the pelvis nearly half an inch also. As the ossa innominata are moved as it were upon hinges, placed at the back part of their articulation with the sacrum, whilst they are pushed asunder, they will be advanced forwards, because the lines