89 or THE DEFORMED 3IAI.E PELVIS. Of distortion of the Male Pelvis. The observations which have hitherto been made apply to the distortion of the female pelvis. The male pelvis is also liable to distortion, and as that dis- tortion may render the lateral operation of lithotomy very dif- ficult or impossible, it is of moment to draw the attention of the reader to it, and the more especially, as it has been very generally overlooked, and that even by authors who have di- rected their attention in a more especial manner to the pelvis. An unnatural conformation of the rami which form the angle at the symphysis pubis of the male pelvis is, as far as my observation goes, by no means unfrequent. This mal- conformation of the bones is combined with a corresponding' deviation as to the origin of the crura penis, the one of which takes its origin more than half an inch higher than the other on the opposite side. In some instances the rami of the pubis approach each other so closely, that there is not sufficient space between the tuberosities of the ossa ischii for performing the lateral opera- tion of lithotomy, but more frequently one of these retreats, so that one of the rami of the pubis resembles that of the male; and the other, that of the female. This deviation from the natural form may often escape ob- servation, as I have seen it, when all the other bones of the body have been perfectly well formed, and in very robust men. I lately got two specimens, in one of which, that portion of the pelvis, between the symphysis pubis and tuberosity of the right os ischium, is nearly parallel to the urethra; but the similar portion of the left side, is nearly as oblique as that of a well-formed female pelvis; and the reverse holds true as to the other specimen. When the bones of the male pelvis acquire, in consequence of rickets, an unnatural softness, they sometimes become much distorted, in consequence of the weight of the upper part of the trunk and extremities. There is a remarkable specimen of this in the skeleton of a boy of four or five years old, in the Museum, whose spine, pelvis, ribs, and bones of the extre-