103 OE THE PELVIS. saw the relaxation once in the body of a woman who died two days after her delivery. He thinks that this only happens in laborious birth. He gives a list of a great many authors who are of different opinions on this question. “ Hildanus asserts that he could never observe the dis- junction of the ossa pubis, though he was most frequently em- ployed in most laborious and difficult births, and endeavoured to examine this fact with all the care he could. Dionis says in strong terms that there is no separation of these bones in the birth of a child ; adding, that he had opened and dissect- ed many women who were very lately brought to bed. Mor- gagni thinks that the relaxation sometimes happens, but that it is not the common tenor of nature.. “ When one examines the connection of the bones of the pelvis of a woman, who has not lately borne a child, it might be thought almost impossible that any force of child-bearing could make them recede from each other. But, it is to be considered, that in labour, especially when it is tedious, there is a great flow of mucus to all the parts of the pelvis. One of the surest signs which several women have of their bearing pains being soon to come on, is a watery swelling of the labia pudendi, and a dribbling of mucus from the vagina. The reason of this overflowing of liquors here at the time of birth is, the child, when it falls down towards the os uteri, pressing the lower part of the womb against the sides of the pelvis, by which the vessels there are compressed. The arteries continue, notwithstanding the pressure, to drive forwards the blood, but the return of it by the veins is difficult; this resistance to the returning blood causes the small arteries to infuse the thin parts of it into the substance and cavities of all the parts, in the same way as we see a leg or arm made monstrously oede- matous by a pressure on the iliac or axillary veins.” The same difference of opinion prevails amongst more mo- dem authors ; thus, Desault, Boyer, Chaussier, and Piet, speak of the disunion of the bones of the pelvis, and the latter author has imputed it to a swelling of the cartilages, and the extension of the ligaments. Baudelocqe, on the other hand, supposes the relaxation of