310 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and rest and the horizontal posture recommended till the wound has healed. In consequence of disease, the ligaments acquire a large share of sensibility. Thus in gout, the stones that form in the joints sometimes create great pain in working out. The muscles which pass from one bone to another, and which cross over the joint when thrown into action, give addi- tional security to these, by powerfully bringing into contact the articular surfaces of the bones. This fact is rendered quite obvious, by the weakness of the ankle-joints of puny chil- dren, and by subsequent deformity, the result of the bones ha- ving adapted themselves to their unnatural situation ; and al- so by the additional bodily vigour and strength in the joints, which may be gained by regular exercise, especially in early life, when the bones are in a growing state, whereby they ac- quire such a form as admits of a still greater range of ac- tion. The ligaments externally are rough, but internally smooth, and lubricated by synovia. There are different kinds of liga- ments, which, on account of their shape or situation, have been arranged into six classes. Thejirst class comprehends the capsular ligaments. These ligaments serve for retaining the articular surfaces of the bones in contact, to which the tendons and muscles crossing the joints (especially when in a state of contraction, and when there is the greatest risk of the bones being displaced) essen- tially contribute. The capsular ligaments are connected to the necks of the bones, or to that part where the bodies of the bones are joined with their epiphyses, and which, forming capsules including the joints, have been thence called capsular ligaments. The capsular ligaments are not of an uniform extent nor of equal thickness. There are, in several, smaller fasciculi of li- gamentous fibres which cross over the joints in different di- rections, which add considerably to their strength. The extent of the capsular ligament is proportioned to the degree of motion performed : thus, at the shoulder-joint, the