ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 294 The three bones in each of the other four toes, are less than those of the fingers and smaller in proportion to their lengths : Their bases are much larger than their anterior ends: Their bodies are more narrow above and below, and flatter on the sides. The first phalanx is proportionally much longer than the bones of the second and third, which are very short. Of the four, the toe next to the great one has the largest bones in all dimensions, and more externally the toes are less. The second and third bones of the little toe are sometimes in- timately united. The toes are of great use to us in walking; for, when the . sole is raised, they bring our body, with its centre of gravity, perpendicular to the advanced foot. The toes, thumb and fingers, have often been dislocated. As we can lay firm hold of the foot or hand, and of the dis- located bones, it may be supposed that the displaced bones may be readily replaced. My Father in his Lectures used to observe, that he had seen several cases, in which “ Surgeons of considerable gene- ral experience were foiled, not only where the bones had been for several days displaced, but even in recent dislocations; be- cause they had not disengaged the bones, by drawing them asunder in opposite directions, before an attempt was made to extend the joint, not aware, that in such joints as are moved like a hinge, in two directions only, the lateral ligaments, which are thick and strong, may Jail across the neck of the displaced bone, and render the reduction of its head very difficult.” He used to cite the subsequent casein illustration of the above ob- servations. “ Miss M., set. 7., fell in the street and dislocated the root of the thumb of her left hand, which passed on the back of the metacarpal bone. Three surgeons in succession attempted to reduce it, but in vain ; and one of them pulled for ten minutes with such strength, that the sweat ran over his face.' Next day I was-called ; one of the surgeons was of opinion that the bone could not be replaced; another attempt was, however, made, to remove the dislocation, by pulling a .string which had been fixed to the dislocated bone, whilst the