473 OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. secreted fluids which probably have a chemical effect upon our food, and also for the addition of the mucus which de- fends the intestines from the acrimony of its contents. The food is carried through this long and circuitous route bv a series of powerful muscular fibres, which constitute the coats of the alimentary canal; and these coats perform their office so completely as to propel the contents of the intestines contrary to their gravity, and even to push forward air or quicksilver. To this effect the muscles of the parietes of the belly, and that muscle between the belly and chest called Diaphragm, essentially contribute. The muscular coats also produce the peristaltic and anti- peristaltic motion, which is kept up by the stimulus of the food. Thus the various contents of the alimentary canal are intimately united ; some are dissolved ; others enter into new combinations : thus also the alimentary mass is presented to the lacteal vessels, which take their origin from the inner surface of the intestines; and the discharge of that part of our food which is useless is accomplished. But as, without the addition of some other covering, the muscular coats of the alimentary canal would be exposed to be torn ; therefore the membrane called Peritonaeum, which fixes the alimentary ca- nal to the back-bone, is continued over the stomach and in- testines, forming their external covering, by means of which the alimentary canal is enabled to resist over-distention from air or faeces. There is still another property, which is indispensably ne- cessary to the alimentary canal, viz. a power of accommoda- ting its capacity to the quantity of its contents. This is provided for by the elasticity and expansive power of all the coats, owing to the introduction of a quantity of loose cellular substance between the muscular and villous coats, and also to the loose manner in which the stomach and intestines are fixed to the hotly. Lest the alimentary canal should be injured by the acrimony of its contents, and in order to facilitate the passage of these, the innermost (oat, called, ficm its resemblance to velvet, villous.