OF THE LIVER. 561 A rounded part of the liver passes between the gall-blad- der and passage for the umbilical ligament, downwards from the lobe of Spigelius to the right lobe, serving to connect it to the right lobe, which bearing a distant resemblance to the tail of an animal, has been named the Processus cciudatus of the liver by Haller. A part of the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, situated between the gall-bladder and round ligament, is somewhat of a square figure, or of the form of a parallelogram ; and on account of its shape, has been named the Lobulus quadratus, or Lobulus anonymus of Haller. There are several depressions, of different breadths and depths, in the concave part of the liver. There is a considerable notch in the anterior edge of the liver, which marks the beginning of the fossa umbilicalis. This fossa extends from the front to the back part of the liver, dividing it into two lobes. It is frequently covered over by a portion of the liver. This canal lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, which, in the adult, is generally impervious. There is another fissure in the liver, which occupies nearly the middle part of its lower surface : it is neither so deep nor so long as the preceding, and it is placed transversely, or in the long diameter of the liver, and has commonly been called the Sulcus transversus: it is bounded at its extremities by the right and left lobes, behind by the lobule of Spigelius, and before by the lobulus caudatus. In the transverse fossa are contained the trunk of the vena portae, called Sinus, and its two great branches, the hepatic artery, the common biliary duct, lymphatic glands, lymphatic vessels and nerves. These are united by condensed cellular substance, and which has been described by Glisson as a cap- sule. Between the great left and third lobes, there is also a short fo3sa, which lodges the ductus venosus, and which passes ob- liquely from right to left between the sulcus transversus and vena cava. VOL. i. x n