244 elements of anatomy. Of the Os Humeri *. There is only one long, round, and nearly straight bone' proper to the arm, which has been called os humeri, the up- per extremity of which is expanded into a large, round, smooth head, the axis of which is not in a straight line with the axis of the bone, but stands obliquely backwards from it, and is bounded by a circular fossa, into which the capsular ligament of the joint is fixed. Below the fore-part of its base there are two tubercles. The tendon of the subscapularis muscle is fixed into the smaller or internal tubercle. There are three plain surfaces upon the larger or external tubercle; into the anterior of which the musculm supra-spinatus; into the middle or largest the infraspinatus; and into the one be- hind, the teres minor, is inserted. Between these two tuber- cles, exactly in the fore-part of the bone, there is a deep long fossa, for lodging the tendon of the long head of the bicepsflex- or cuhiti; which, after passing through the joint, is tied down by a tendinous sheath extended across the fossa. There is a ridge on each side of this fossa. The tendon of the pectoral muscle is fixed into- the anterior of these ridges; and those of the latissimus clorsi, and teres major, are inserted into the in- ternal oile. A little behind the lower end of this last, there is another rough ridge, for the insertion of the coraco-bra- chialis. From the back-part of the root of the largest tuber- cle, a ridge also is continued, from which the short head of the extensor cubiti rises. This bone is flat on the inside, about its middle. In the middle of this plain surface, the medullary artery enters the bone, and in a direction obliquely downwards. At the fore-side of this plane, the bone rises in a sort of ridge, which is rough, and often has a great many small holes in it for the insertion of the tendon of the strong deltoid muscle ; on each side of which-, the bone is smooth and flat, where the brachialis interims rises. The exterior of * The humerus is supposed to be viewed in the pendulous position, with the palm of the hand directed forwards. In this position, those parts that look to- wards the radius are external; those towards the ulna internal; those towards- the palm, anterior; and those towards the elbow, posterior.