322 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Thus, in rheumatic and gouty constitutions, the joints are often swelled ; but when we attend narrowly to the seat of such swellings, we shall generally discover an effusion into- the bursae as well as into the cavities of the joints. In like manner, in several scrophulous cases, I have ob- served the bursae, especially at the wrists or ankles, stretched with a viscid fluid. Dropsy of the joint of the knee, I have remarked, is a more common and a more curable disorder than I believe it is com- monly supposed to be. I have kept an account of fifteen pa- tients under this complaint, of whom eleven were completely cured by the use of leeches, blisters, and solution of sal plum- bi in vinegar, and purgatives. In two more of the number, an effusion into the joint has continued for several years In the two remaining, the effusion was complicated with white swelling, and terminated in death. In several cases of swelling of the knee with fluctuation, I have found that the fluid was lodged in the bursa behind the tendon of the extensors of the leg; and I have observed, that such tumors are apt, with time, to terminate in an imperfect suppuration, where some purulent matter is mixed with a vis- cid clear liquor. When the tumor of the knee is small, we readily discover that the fluid is within the cavity of the joint; by observing, that when, after extending the leg in order to relax the ten- don and ligament of the knee-pan, we press upon the soft swelling, the knee-pan is lifted up, and the capsular ligament of the knee, under the patella, at the sides of the strong liga- ment which ties it to the tibia, is protruded. 12. Cartilaginous bodies have been repeatedly observed by surgeons within the cavity of the joint of the knee; and a few such have been taken out after cutting into the cavi- ty of the joint. Of this complaint I have met with va- rious instances. In some the cartilaginous substance was fix- ed in its place; in others it slipped readily from one place of the cavity of the joint to another. In one case, three or four such moveable substances were distinguishable : in another, there were upwards of twenty such. These were so compact-