412 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. so very little distant the one from the other, that there is hard- ly a palpable space between them. The ring is placed just in contact with the tubercle of the pubis. From this fact, it must at first sight appear, that the lower outlet is in the foetus, in the same spot which it is afterwards to occupy in the adult. In proportion, therefore, as the foetal ring is changed into the adult canal, it is the internal orifice which changes its posi- tion ; it is the upper opening which mounts toward the spine of the ilium. We may from this very readily understand, that it is from the gradual extension of the transversalis fascia, in that direction, that the cord comes to be inclosed in a canal. A very simple contrivance gives a very clear idea of the man- ner in which the inguinal canal is formed. Let any one take two slips of paper of the same length, and cut two small holes in the centre of each; let him then lay these holes op- posite to each other, and pass through them a quill or pencil- case. When he has done this, he has a very good plan of the state of parts about the groin in the foetus. If he now hold the papers opposite him, and then pull to a side the one near- est to himself, he will find, that, by doing this, he comes to lay the quill between the pieces of paper in the same way that the spermatic cord, by the extension upward and outward of the internal orifice of the ring, comes to be lodged in a long canal. And he will also see, that the length of the canal must vary according to the greater or less extension of its posterior side. Many have also been puzzled to comprehend, how the epigastric artery can bear precisely the same relation to the cord in the foetus and adult, seeing the difference which has taken place in the relative position of the internal orifice of the canal. This difficulty only occurs to those who do not properly understand the mechanism of parts. One who has made him- self acquainted with the real structure, is never difficulted in following the changes. If the state of parts in the very young subject be known, and if the surgeon have examined those at an advanced period of life, by comparing the one with the other he has at once unfolded to him the mode in which the foetal ring is changed into the adult canal. He is taught that it is a natural consequence of the oblique extension of the