GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 5 My Father, in his book on the Bursas Mucosae, published m 1788, was the first author who pointed out the identity be- tween serous membranes, as the peritonaeum, pleura, capsular ligaments, as to their structure, and also that these were liable to similar and peculiar derangements. In Sect. 7. of that book, he compares together the struc- ture of the Bursae, with the capsular ligaments of the joints ; and, in Sect. 8. he compares the structure of the bursae with that of the pleurae, pericardium and peritonaeum ; and further shews, that these membranes are liable to the same organic dis- orders, and become highly inflamed by exposure to the air. He observes, (p. 38.), “ Wounds of these large sacs of the thorax and abdomen likewise generally produce a high degree of in- flammation, attended with the most dangerous consequences.” And, in page 34., he says,<k Where wounds have accidentally penetrated into the cavities of the joints, or have been made with the intention of evacuating water, or of extracting such cartilaginous bodies, if the wound had not been properly closed, and the joint restrained from motion, a very consider- able and painful swelling of the whole joint has ensued, which, in some, has terminated fatally; or, to save life, there has been a necessity of having recourse to the amputation of a limb.” Dr C. Smyth, in his paper* on the different kinds of inflam- mation, has clearly pointed out the nature of some of the tis- sues, and has shewn that each tissue is subject to a different kind of inflammation, occasioned by different causes, and fol- lowed by different consequences. “ Experience,” says Dr C. Smyth, “ has long since taught us, that every part of an animal body, the cuticle and hair perhaps excepted, is liable to inflammation ; and, by attend- ing strictly to the phenomena, it is equally evident, that, ac- cording to the nature of the part affected, the disease puts on a different appearance; is accompanied by different symptoms; is of various terminations; becomes more or less acute or * London Medical Communications, p. 1G8. Edition 1788.