ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 270 femoris being felt in the groin, in the dislocation on the pubes, otherwise the eversion of the foot in both cases might lead to their being confounded.” “ In order to distinguish these from fractures external to the capsular ligament, the surgeon will observe the very advanced age at which it usually occurs, the considerable shortening of the limb, the absence of the crepitus, if the limb be not drawn down and rotated, the slight cause by which it has been produced, and the little local and constitutional irritation it occasions Different parts of the thigh-bone are frequently broken. It may be observed respecting fractures in general, that those bones, which are most slightly covered, are most readily broken; and also, that there are some bones which, from their situation and office, are much exposed to fracture, as the long bones of the extremities, which serve as pillars or levers. Fractures take place at the middle, or tozvards the extremi- ties of the bones, Fractures are simple or complicated: in the former, the in- jury is limited to the bone and periosteum ; in the latter, the muscles and skin are injured. Sometimes bones are broken in several places. Fractures are sometimes incomplete ; and these rarely oc- cur but in the young. The surfaces of the pieces of the fractured bone touch each other generally, as where another bone serves to sup- port the broken bone; the fibula, for instance, retains pieces of the broken tibia, in immediate contact. Sometimes thefractured pieces of bone touch each other only partially; as, from the foot being turned round when the tibia has been fractured, the outer part of the circumference of the under piece of the broken bone may be applied to the inner part of the circumference of the upper piece. If the muscles be fixed to both pieces of the broken bone, these are not disunited; but if they are only attached to one of these, as in fracture at the neck of the humerus, the teres • Vid. p. HO. 1st Edition, of his treatise on fractures and dislocations of the joints.