140 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. smaller, and is stretched forwards to join with the os malce; they together forming the bony jugum, under which the tem- poral muscle passes. Hence this process has been named zygomatic. To the upper edge the strong aponeurosis of the temporal muscle is fixed; and its lower part gives rise to a share of the masseter. The fore part of the base of this pro- cess is oblong ; and in a recent subject is covered with a smooth cartilage, continued from that which lines the cavity immediately behind this tubercle. From the under craggy part of the os tcmporum, the third pro- cess stands out obliquely forwards, which in shape resembles the ancient stylus scriptorius; and therefore it is called the sty- loid process. The muscles called stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoi- deus, stylo-pharyngeus, take their rise from this process, and a ligament of the os hyoides is sometimes fixed to it, and an- other is extended from it to the inside of the angle of the lower jaw. This process is often, even in adults, ligamentous at its root, and sometimes is composed of two or three distinct bones. Around the root of it, especially at the fore part, there is a re- markable rising of the os petrosum, which some have esteemed a process ; and, from the appearance it makes with the styli- form, have named it vaginalis. Others, again, have, under the name of auditory process, reckoned among the external pro- cesses that semicircular ridge, which, running between the root of the mastoid and zygomatic processes, forms the under part of the external meatus auditorius. It sometimes, though very rarely, happens that there is a small and rounded bone extending between this process and the os hyoides. The sinuosities or depressions on the external surface of each os temporum are : A long fossa at the inner and back- part of the root of the mastoid process, where the posterior head of the digastric muscle has its origin. Immediately be- fore the root of the zygomatic process, a considerable hollow' is left, for lodging the temporal muscle. Between the zygomatic, auditory and vaginal processes there is a large cavity; through the middle of which, from