249 DISLOCATION OF THE HUMERUS. * Page 427, 1st edition of his Treatise on Dislocations. In the second view, the great pectoral muscle has been re- moved, in order to shew the stretched biceps flexor cubiti, and coraco-brachialis, muscles, the relative situation of the displaced head of the bone in respect to the bloodvessels and nerves of the axilla, that the head of the bone presses on them, and had forced them backwards out of their natural si- tuation, and that the deltoid muscle has been displaced, to- gether with the ball of the os humeri. The tim’d is a deeper view of the shoulder-joint. The cora- co-brachialis muscle and shorter head of the biceps, are seen crossing- over the head of the dislocated bone. The tendons of the supra and infra spinatus muscles, and also that of the teres minor, are seen covered by condensed cellular sub- stance, In this view, the musculo-cutaneous nerve is seen somewhat compressed by the head of the displaced bone ; and as the dislocation had existed for some time, there was no vi- sible rent in the capsular ligament. The fourth and last view, was taken after the os humeri had been rolled outwards, and after opening a newly formed capsular ligament: there was a newly formed socket for the head of the bone; and in this instance there was an exos- tosis within the newly formed socket. The head of the os humeri lay on the inferior costa of the scapula. My Father, in his lectures, used to state, that the biceps muscle proves the principal obstacle to the reduction of this dislocation, and therefore always recommended the fore part to be bent, in order to relax the biceps, before an attempt is made to reduce the dislocation. Sir A. Cooper does the • \ same; he observes * : “ I generally bend the fore-arm nearly at right angles with the os humeri, because it relaxes the bi- ceps, and consequently diminishes its resistance.” Sir A. Cooper has (p. 422.) published a very interesting account of the dissection of a shoulder-joint that had been dislocated, and informs us, that he had found the supra spi- natus muscle to be the principal obstacle to the reduction of the dislocated humerus. >