ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 494 The molares of persons advanced in life arc generally shed before the incisors, showing what kind of food is fittest for the old. OF THE VARIETY OF THE JAW AT DIFFERENT PERIODS OF LIFE. There is, perhaps, no bone in the human body which, du- ring the progress of life, undergoes a greater alteration in its figure than the under jaw-bone. These changes in the shape of the jaw are in a great measure owing to the teeth. Before the appearance of the teeth, the jaws are proportion- ally shorter than in animals fully grown, which has a consider- able effect on the Facial Line. The jaws in an infant are not only shorter, but also not so deep as in the adult. It has been stated, that in a child at birth the depth of the jaw is about the seventh part of that of the head ; at the age of thirty, it measures somewhat less than the fifth part. As the teeth advance, the posterior angle of the jaw is pushed back, and becomes more nearly aright angle; and the poste- rior part of the rising branch, which was at first very oblique, becomes straight. From what has been said respecting the teeth, it is obvi- ous, that, as the incisor teeth and grinding teeth of the child are at first in immediate contact, the jaw must grow' rapidly in order to make room for the eye-teeth; and, as the grind- ing teeth of the second set are more numerous than those of the first, the jaws must extend very much between the co- ronoid process and the grinders of the first set, to make way for the grinders of the second set; hence we find, that the jaws are in a constant state of growth until the twentieth year, in order to make room for the addition of the wisdom teeth. When the teeth fall out, the alveolar processes disappear in the upper, as well as in the under jaw. We sometimes ob- serve an osseous net-work which fills up some of the alveolar processes; and the distance between the bony palate and the chin becomes much less. When the jaws are shut, the under jaw projects consider- ably beyond the upper. The posterior angle becomes more