elements of anatomy. •f Santorin. Obscrvat. Anatomic, cap. 5. § 9, t Id- ibid. cap. 5. § 7. 174- Osm Turbinata. The manner of connection of these bones, was misunder- stood by the older anatomists, and Aluinus was the first au- thor who has accurately described their mode of connection. Instead of being merely fixed by membrane to the nose in the young subject, and growing to it in advanced life, as the older authors have stated, there is a hook, by which these bones hang upon the edge of the antrum maxillare. The ossa turbinata, or spongiosa inferiora, resemble the su- perior ossa spongiosa in shape and. substance, and their anterior and upper edges are contiguous to the transverse ridges of the nasal processes of the maxillary and palate bones. From their upper straight edge, two small processes stand out: The posterior, which is the broadest, descends to cover some of the antrum highmorianum ; the anterior rises up to join the os unguis, and to make part of the lacrymal duct. Below the spongy bones already mentioned, there are some- times two others, one in each nostril, which seem to be a pro- duction of the sides of the maxillary sinus turned down- wards *. When this third sort of spongy bones is found, the middle one of the three in each nostril is the largest, and the lowest is the smallest. Besides all these, there are often several other small bones standing out into the nostrils, that, from their shape, might also deserve the name of turbinata; but their bulk, situation, and number vary f. There are a number of foveoli, but no holes in the os tur- binatum inferius. These bones are sometimes considerably swollen, in consequence of lues venerea and scrofula. They are joined to the ossa maxillaria, palati and unguis, in old subjects, by a firm union of substance; and as tins hap- pens also frequently in people of no great age, some £ are of opinion, that they should be esteemed part of the palate-bones. These bones straiten the nostrils, extend the organ of smel- ling, cover part of the antra maxillaria, and assist in forming * Cowper in Drake’s Anthropolog, book 3. chap. 10.