225 OF THE AMERICAN INDIANS. The frontal sinuses are large, very prominent, and over- hang the orbits in a striking manner, giving indeed, a very peculiar, and, I should say, characteristic, appearance to the skull. The sides of the skull are flat, and the temporal fossae are deep, but not so much so as in the Negro. The ridges from which the temporal muscles take their ori- gin are high and well deepened. The form of the occipital bone i#three of the specimens is remarkable. The fossas for the hemispheres of the cerebellum are flat, and terminate in an apex of three inches broad. In two of my specimens a transverse suture divides the os occipitis into two portions, not exactly equal in size; and it may be remarked, that a similar division of the os occipitis takes place in two Eskimaux skulls. The upper and under jaws are much imprinted by the muscles: the former is more prominent than in the European, but much less so than in the Negro, but the under jaw pro- jects, instead of retreating, at its mental portion. The opposite plate of the alveolar processes of both, or of one only, of the incisor teeth, are generally in contact, so that there is no socket for the roots of these teeth, which it is the custom of that nation to knock out at the period of puberty. The orbits are somewhat of an oblong square form, and broader from side to side than in a vertical dhection. The ossa nasi are short and flat. The cavity for the nose, and the ossa turbinata, are larger than in the European, and the form of the bottom of the nose is quite peculiar to this nation and the natives of Van Dieman’s Land, for, instead of being flat, it slopes downwards and for- wards. This race of people possess a very acute sense of smell, which is probably to be imputed to the large size of the nasal cavity. The teeth are large, but not so prominent as in the Negro. The palatine arch of the superior maxillary bone is longer and deeper than in any other skulls I have seen, excepting in those from Van Dieman’s Land. All the foramina for the bloodvessels or nerves at the base of the skull, are larger than in the European. In short, there are several distinctive characters between voi.. j. v