315 OF THE SYNOVIA. water. Heat renders it turbid, and occasions the coagula- tion of a small proportion of albumen. Diluted acids render it cloudy in a slight degree; but their effect is not equal to that of a boiling temperature. The latter not only produces an evident coagulation, but likewise destroys the peculiar vis- cidity of the fluid, which the acids do not affect. The sul- phuric, muriatic, and nitric acids, in their concentrated state, first occasion a slight coagulatioiji, and in a short time a per- fect solution of the synovia, and a destruction of its viscidity. The sulphuric solution was of a light brownish yellow ; the nitric of a light wine yellow ; and the muriatic solution was colourless. Ammonia and potash appeared to have little ef- fect on it. Corrosive sublimate, infusion of nut-galls, and acetate of lead, each produced a precipitate, and deprived the synovia of its viscidity. The precipitate by acetate of lead ap- parently exceeded in quantity that by corrosive sublimate, but was less than that which infusion of nut-galls afforded. “ From these results, synovia seems to contain albumen, gelatine and mucilage; and it also contains common salt, a small proportion of free alkali, and slight traces of phosphate of lime. ‘ ‘ I have endeavoured to ascertain the proportions of its constituent parts; but I have not been so successful as I could have wished, on account of the small quantity operated upon. “ 300 grains of it were immersed in boiling water, in a suitable glass vessel, for about ten minutes. The coagulum thus formed was separated, and dried till very brittle. It weighed 1.4 grains. “ The fluid, after the removal of the coagulated albumen, was almost transparent. When nearly evaporated to dryness, the little remaining fluid did not gelatinize on cooling. The dry residual matter weighed 3.5 grains. “ This residue and the albumen were heated to redness in a platina crucible. The charcoal produced was digested in water. The solution thus formed was evaporated to dryness, and small cubic crystals of common salt were obtained, that weighed T^th of a grain. As they shewed no tendency to