elements or anatomy. 358 Sir G. Bi.ane’s experiment on the tail of the eel seems to determine this question in the negative *. I here are great numbers of stimuli which produce the contraction of muscles, of which the nervous energy is cer- tainly the chief. The integrity of the nerve and artery leading to a muscle is essential to its action; for a ligature thrown around that nerve, or the dividing it, renders the muscle paralytic, or in- capable of action; and further, the cause of this palsy is ge- nerally resident in the brain and spinal marrow, from whence the nerve originates, and not in the part affected. Relaxation of Muscles. Until the causes of contraction are fully understood, those which induce relaxation of the muscles must be obscure. Contraction and relaxation take place regularly, and con- stantly and alternately in the heart, as the circulation could not otherwise have been properly carried on; and even after the heart is separated from the body, when its most common and principal stimulus the blood, is wanting, these alternate actions continue for some time. During respiration, contraction and relaxation alternately take place, but less regularly, for a great number of useful purposes. If a muscle be kept for a length of time in a state * “ I took a glass flask, into which one-half of a living eel was introduced. The mouth was immediately afterwards fused by a blowpipe, and drawn into a tube like the stem of a thermometer. The flask and tube were then filled with water, in order to see whether the motion of the animal would make the fluid rise or fall. It had neither the one effect nor the other, though there were at times strong convulsions; and if the muscles had at any time occupied either more space or less than another, a sensible fluctuation would have been produced, es- pecially when the column of fluid was rendered very fine, by the introduction of a steel-wire to irritate the parts. That part of the eel from the anus to the tail was made use of for this experiment, as the other division, containing the organs of respiration and the air-bladder, might have occasioned a fallacy, from the expansion or condensation of an elastic fluid, by accidental changes of tempera- ture or compression. This was repeated three times, with the same result. In one of the trials, the above-mentioned portion of two eels was introduced ; and though they were at times both in convulsions at once, not the least motion of the fluid in the tube had been perceived,”—Blane's Lecture on Muscular Motion, p. 13.