312 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The fourth class comprehends such ligaments as supply the place of hones ; as the ligaments which fill up the foramina obturatoria. Under the same class, the ligaments called Interosseous, between the tibia and fibula, and the radius and ulna, which serve to unite the above bones, and to give origin to muscles, may perhaps be included. To save us from an unnecessary load, ligaments of this description are composed of distinct fasciculi joined together, and are a good deal involved with the periosteum. The fifth class comprehends such ligaments as form a socket, in which a moveable hone is lodged; as the astragalus, which is lodged within the ligament stretched between the os calcis and os scaphoides. The sixth class includes those ligaments which are situated within the joints, for the sake of additional security, and mo- derating and regulating the movements of the joints; as the round ligament of the hip-joint, and the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. The reflections of the periosteum and pleura have been described as forming, within the thorax and abdo- men, ligaments for retaining the liver, spleen, uterus, and bladder of urine, in their proper situation; and these consti- tute, according to some authors, a distinct class of ligaments. The seventh class includes the elastic ligament, which is an antagonist to the muscles, by which parts are restored to their original situation, or supported in it. These form a part of some of the muscles. The head is supported by strong elas- tic ligaments appended to the muscles of the back, and the ab- dominal viscera of large animals, as those of the elephant, are supported by a similar substance. There is still another class of ligaments, such as those which surround the sockets of the shoulder and hip joints, which are composed of tendinous, ligamentous and cartilaginous fibres, and in which the properties of all these different substances are combined. Thus these cavities are rendered deeper, and are protected from fracture during the sudden and violent movement of the limbs in certain directions. Vide Weitbrecht, Syndesmologia, sive Historia Ligamentorum Corporis Humani, 4to ; and Caldani’s very beautiful Figures of the Ligaments. Monro on the Structure of Ligaments, in his Treatise on the Bursa? Mucosa?.