ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 274 Dr Colles, Professor of Surgery in Dublin, and also Sir Astley Cooper, <£ are of opinion, that a re-union of the broken pieces of the neck of the thigh-bone does not take place? Sir Asx ley has stated it “ to be a general principle, that the neck of the thigh-bone, when it is broken within the cap- sular ligament, and attended with the usual characters of that fracture, viz. occurring in advanced age, a limb shortened from one inch and a-half to two inches and a-half, accompanied, as it usually is, by an everted knee and foot, such fracture does not unite by an ossific process, but by means of a liga- mentous substance passing from the capsular to the reflected ligament, and from bone to bone.” Sir A. Cooper, in his 2d edition, p. 127., says, “ In all the examinations which I have made of transverse fractures of the cervix femoris, entirely within the capsular ligament, I have never met zvith one in zoliich an ossific union had taken place, or which did not admit of motion of one hone upon the other. To deny its possibility, and to maintain that no exception to a general rule can take place, would be presumptuous, es- pecially when we consider the varieties of direction in which a fracture may occur, and the degree of violence by which it may be produced ; as, for example, when the fracture is through the head of the bone, and there is no separation of its fractured end, or when the bone is broken without the periosteum or reflected ligament being torn, or when it is broken. obliquely, partly within and partly external to, the capsular ligament; but all I wish to be understood to say is, that if it ever does happen, it is a very rare occurrence, and that I have not yet met with a single example of it.” In fractures of this kind, the neck of the thigh-bone is ab- sorbed to a greater or less degree, and portions of membranes of a ligamentous nature are generally found extending be- tween the head of the bone and its neck, to the acetabulum, and to different parts of the surface of the capsular ligament. But I had occasion to examine an instance of fracture of the neck of the bone in which a partial union by ligamentous mem- branes had taken place; notwithstanding which, the patient.