188 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. It has been objected, that the forehead is occasionally low and even flat, when there was no evidence that pressure had been applied, as in countries in which civilization has far ad- vanced. It has been also stated, that if pressure had been made on the forehead, a counter pressure must have been applied to the back part of the head ; hence the skull, instead of being prominent behind, should have resembled a sugar loaf, and should have been much elevated at its vertex. But all speculation as to this question, in as far as it re- gards the Caribs, is set aside by the concurrent testimonies of Labat * * * §, Condamine -f*, Oviedo t, and others. These au- thors have described the time of life, and mode in which, the pressure was applied, to the forehead, which is thus so much flattened, that they can see objects above them without raising the head; and the very bandages with which the pressure had been applied have been sent to Europe ||. Pressure, even in our day, is employed to alter the form of the skull, according to Messrs Lewis and Clarke §, among the Northern and Southern American Indians. The skulls received by Dr Mitchell from Colonel T. EL Perkins, are of a most remarkable character, and were brought from the Columbia River, on the north-west coast of America. They were compressed, as if by the action of a heavy weight, or strong mechanical power, acting downward * Labat, tom. ii. p. 72, has observed,—“ Les Caraibes sont tous bien fails et bien proportionnes; les traits du visage assez agreables. II n’y a que le from qui paroit un peu extraordinaire, parcequ’il est fort plat et comme enfonce. Ils ne naissent point comme cela, mais ils forcent la tete de l’enfant a prendre cette figure, en mettant sur le front de l’enfant nouveau ne une petite planche liee fortement derriere la tete, qu’ils y laissent jusqu’ a ce que le front ait pris sa consistence, et qu’il demeure applati, de maniere que sans hausser la tete ils voy- cnt presque perpendiculairement au dessus d’eux.”—Voyage aux Isles de 1’Amerique. + Mem. de l’Acad. des Scien. 1715. * Hist. gen. de las Indias, 1535. || Journal de Phys. Aout 1791, tab. 1. & 2. § Travels to the source of the Missouri.