OF THE TEETH. 48 J The enamel contains, according to the experiments of Mr Pepys, 78 parts of phosphate of lime, and 6 of carbonate of lime, in the 100. It is almost entirely soluble in acids; and retains its white colour, though exposed to a considerable de- gree of heat. The enamel forms only a crust for the teeth in man, and carnivorous animals ; but, in the ruminant animals, it dips into the body of the tooth, and, being much harder than the osseous part, it is not so quickly worn down; and, therefore, the tooth is always kept sharp, and fit for use. The enamel of the teeth of old people is generally worn off from long-continued attrition; after which, the bony part of the tooth is more rapidly destroyed ; the surface of the tooth, therefore, appears concave. On exposing the section of a tooth to heat, the thickness and extent of the enamel are very conspicuous, the bony mat- ter assuming a black or dark-brown colour, whilst the enamel retains its white colour. The enamel is seen passing farther down on the outer than on the inner part of the teeth. The roots of the teeth are covered by a thin layer of yel- low matter, which has been called horny substance. Every tooth has a smooth, small, internal cavity, of the same shape as the body of the tooth, which is filled by a sub- stance called Pulp; and if there be two or three roots, there are corresponding openings leading from the pulp of the tooth into the canals, each of which leads to each root. There is a small aperture near the point of each root, which leads into the cavity of the tooth, through which the bloodvessels and nerves enter into the substance of the tooth. The bony * matter of the teeth, which is more compact and harder than that of most other bones, consists of a number of layers, parallel to the pulp, and to each other; and, accord- ing to Mr Pepys, consists of 58 parts in the 100 of phosphate * P.T330M, (Tractatus Anatomico-Medicus de Ossibus Infantum, p. 188.), and Cutif.r, (Lccons d’Anat. Compar. tom. iii.) affirm, that the bony part of the tooth differ-; from common bone in its structure and manner of formation ; and that it resembles common bone only in hardness, and in its constituent ingre- dients. h h VOL. I,