OF THE LIVER OF THE FCETUS. 577 umbilical region, and in a very young foetus occupies a still greater share of the abdomen. As the diaphragm of the foe- tus is flatter than that of the adidt, the liver of the foetus does not hold the same relation to the neighbouring parts as that of the adult it is not placed in an oblique direction as in more advanced life, but in a perpendicular direction: the ante- rior surface is in contact with the parietes of the abdomen, and the posterior with the stomach and spleen, so that these or- gans are covered and concealed by the liver. The shape of the liver of the foetus is not exactly the same as that of the adult; it is flatter, and not so sharp towards its lower part. There is another remarkable difference between the liver of the adult and foetus ;—the right and left lobes are nearly equal as to size. The umbilical vein passes from the navel in a duplicature of peritonaeum, to the left branch of the vena portae; and a con- siderable quantity of blood flows from the left branch of the vena cava by the medium of the canal called Canalis venosus. The liver of the foetus is softer than that of the adult: it is even more vascular, and rather of a deeper colour, than that of the adult. Different opinions have been entertained as to the use of the great size of the liver of the foetus. The liver of the foetus has been stated to perform the func- tions of the lungs of the adidt; hence, it is voluminous in the foetus ; also in reptiles that breathe slowly ; and, on the other hand, the liver of birds is very small, because the lungs are very capacious. Mr Biiyce is of opinion that the liver of the foetus in uteroisof large size, in order that, by its shrinking, when the child is born, there may be sufficient room for the free expan- sion of the lungs, and the free circulation of the blood through that organ. The contents of the gall-bladder of the foetus of four months, are very different from those of the gall-bladder of the adult; that organ being filled by a reddish mucus ; and vol. i. oo