ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 5*2 Thomas Thomson had analysed several of thealvine concre- tions, in the Museum of the University of Edinburgh, Dr Davv, at my particular request, examined several others, which Dr Thomson had not analysed previously, and at the time gave me a long report on the subject, which he concluded by the subjoined remarks. “ The most probable conjecture appears to me to be, that they are produced from the remains of the ingest x during their stay in the large intestines. Thus there would be no difficulty in accounting for the saline ingredients, all of which exist in the faeces, and it is easy to conceive that the fibrous like the saline is derivedfrom the food.” The lower part of the intestinum rectum or curvum, in point of capacity, is next to the caput ccecum, and intended as a receptacle for faeculent matter. The larger intestines differ from the smaller in many parti- culars. The fatty papillae, called Appendices Pinguedinosce, attached externally to the large intestines, the adipose strata, the pouches of the colon, are peculiar to the larger intestines. By means of three ligamento-muscular bands, which take their origin from the appendix vermiformis, and are shorter than the colon ; that bowel is contracted into a number of small rounded sacs. These three bands pass along the colon, near- ly at equal distances. One of these is placed where the great omentum hangs from the colon; the second sweeps along the inferior portion of that bowel; and the third is concealed by the attachment of the mesocolon. These ligaments become gradually broader, and are at length expanded into an uni- form stratum. , The larger intestines are fixed to the body by a duplicature of peritonaeum, called Mesocolon, a part ot which, from its situation on the right side of the body, has been called Meso- colon dextrum; and the part on the left side, the Mesocolon sinistrum. The Mesocolon dextrum passes from the liver, and from the quadratus lumborum muscle of the right side, covering only the anterior part of the colon, and fixes it firmly down to the iliac muscle.