ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 306 opposite properties, elasticity, flexibility and firmness, are combined *. In the centre of these intervertebral cartilages there is a glu- tinous substance. My grandfather discovered the mechanism of the Intervertebral Cartilages of the true vertebra?. He has ob- served, in describing a body brought to him as being a non-de- script fish,—“ It consisted of two round plates of bone, with a flexibletough substance, about 1^ inch thick, interposed between them, and connecting them. No pressure could force the middle centrical part of the plates nearer : but, upon pressing any side of either of the plates, they approached each other, the inter- vening substance at the pressed part rising outwards into a con- vexity, while the opposite side, where the plates were separa- ted, stretched considerably,—all these motions seeming to be performed upon a solid firm substance placed in the centre. “ Some of the young gentlemen who studied under my care, searched along the sea shore, till, near to Granton, where a young whale was cast ashore a few years ago, they found such another body; and, seeing the vertebra? of the whale near to it, they were so obliging as to bring it, with one of the vertebrae, to me. Upon comparing the surfaces of the plates with the flat surfaces of the body of the vertebra, it was at first sight obvious, that the plates were no other than epi- physes separated from two adjacent vertebrae, and the inter- mediate substance was the cartilage interposed between the vertebrae. Upon cutting the soft ligamentous substance, its concentrical fibres shewed themselves; and it became softer gradually, till in the centre, where it had resisted all pressure formerly, it was altogether in a liquid form. “ The view of the play of these two plates, by means of the interposed ligament, with a liquor in the middle of it, served to explain to me the design of the structure of the cartilages between our vertebra?, which I was at a loss to understand be- fore, though it is of the greatest advantage. « The mucous part of this ligamentous cartilage in the hu- • For a more particular account of these, see article Spine.