ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 574 maeh itscll has been found full of bile, and when death has been occasioned by inanition, a vomiting of bile has preceded the death of the animal *. Cuvieii has remarked, that the presence of a gall-bladder is absolutely necessary to carnivorous animals, and is connect- ed with their habit of long fasting; but there are some excep- tions to this remark ; for the porpoise, a truly carnivorous ani- mal, has no gall-bladder. The human gall-bladder is not uniform as to its form or size; it varies in individuals even of the same age, and still more at different periods of life, the gall-bladder of the foetus being somewhat rounded, whereas that of the adult is oval, pyriform or oviform. The gall-bladder, generally speaking, is capable of con- taining about an ounce of bile, and has usually been divided into three parts, a fundus, a body and neck. The gall-bladder is imbedded within a fissure of the con- cave part of the right lobe of the liver, and retained in that situation by the peritonaeum passing across it, and by short cellular substance, and also by a number of small bloodvessels and absorbents. The neck of the gall-bladder is placed in the sinus venae portae, and the broader end or fundus of that organ extends to the notch in the edge of the liver : it is rather lower in our erect posture than the neck; but in the horizontal posture the fundus becomes higher than the neck of the gall-bladder. When the gall-hladder has been much distended with bile, the larger end forms a prominent tumour, which projects be- yond the margin of the chest nearly opposite to the cartilage of the second false rib; and in a few cases, where a stone has been lodged in the neck of the gall-bladder, that organ has been so much distended as to form a very considerable tu- mour in the cavity of the abdomen. The gall-bladder is in contact with the pylorus,—a circum- stance which is obvious, from the yellow tinge given to it, by the bile exuding through its coats after death. Haller, Physiol, lib. xix. 6. ii. 11.