elements of anatomy. 66 than any others, and flattened on the fore part, to make way for the oesophagus. 1 hey are also flat behind, where small processes rise, to which the internal ligaments are fixed. The upper surface of the hotly of each vertebra is made hollow, by a slantingthin process, which is raised on each side; the lower surface is also excavated, the posterior edge is raised a little, and the one before is protruded a considerable way. Thus the cartilages between those bones which are thick, especially at their fore-part, are firmly connected to the bones; hence the vertebrae project forward, as they de- scend, and have more extensive motion. The oblique processes are slanting, the upper ones having their smooth and almost flat surfaces facing obliquely back- wards and upwards, while the inferior oblique processes have these surfaces facing obliquely forwards and downwards. Besides the common transverse process rising from between the oblique processes of each side, there is a second that comes out from the sides of the body of each vertebra; and these two processes, after leaving a circular hole for the passage of the vertebral artery and vein, unite, and are considerably hol- lowed at their upper part, with rising sides, to protect the nerves that pass in the hollow ; and at last each side terminates in an obtuse point, into which muscles are inserted. The spinal processes of these cervical bones stand nearly straight backwards, and are shorter than those of any other vertebrae, and are generally, forked or double at their ends, for a more convenient insertion to muscles. But the spinous pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae of quadrupeds are of consider- able length, for the origin of the large muscles that support the weight of the head. The extent of motion of this part of * the spine is considerable, on account of the thick cartilages be- tween the bodies of these cervical vertebra^ the obliquity of their oblique processes, and the shortness and horizontal situa- tion of their spinal processes. The larger share of the holes for the cervical nerves is formed by the lower of the two ver- tebrae