ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 473 gullet is applied to the canal which leads into the stomach, and the term intestine, to that which leads out from the stomach, and through which the food is conveyed out of the body. Before the food reaches the stomach, it is minutely divided by the teeth, mixed with the saliva and mucus of the mouth and throat: it is then carried, by means of the muscular power of the gullet, into the stomach, or it is otherwise pre- pared, before being converted into chyme, within the stomach. The food, owing to the particular figure, position, and structure of the orifices of the human stomach, is retained within that organ,, to undergo the first process of digestion. Some authors have asserted, that the food is completely di- gested within the stomach, by means of the gastric juice. But, in my opinion, this assertion is not well founded, nor do I think the process of digestion complete, even after the ali- ment has been mixed with the bile, pancreatic juice, and other animal secretions, in its long circuitous route through the intestines. The Chyle or nutritious part, the product of digestion, is afterwards in all probability somewhat changed in its proper- ties during its passage through the lacteal vessels ; but it is not completely animalized, until after its admixture with the blood, and until it has been exposed in its passage through the lungs to the influence of the atmospherical air. The Human Intestinal Canal is about six times the length of the body, in order that the food may undergo the necessary changes, and it is divided into two proportions of very un- equal size, both of which have their length greatly increased by various convolutions. The internal surface of the intestinal canal is much more extensive than the external; the inner coats being folded into doublings, which, performing in some measure the office of valves, have been named by anatomists valvular conniventes ; and the inner surface is still further extended by tbe subdivi- sions of these valvula? into very small villi. By the above means, the internal surface of the intestines is much extended : more space is given for the absorption of the nutritious part of the aliment, and the addition of those