MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 497 contained them. The membrane of the palate is marked by transverse lines, and divided longitudinally; which membrane, at different periods of life, varies much as to its thickness, be- ing, in the infant, thick before the teeth appear, and opposing their protrusion ; and, in advanced old age, when the teeth have dropped out, it becomes still thicker. The mouth is bounded behind by a musculo-membranous partition, called Soft Palate. It is somewhat of a quadran- gular shape, and nearly of an uniform thickness. To the middle of the under-part of the soft palate, a conical-shaped body called Uvula is attached, which is of various lengths in different individuals. The point of the uvula is towards the basis of the tongue, and in front of the epiglottis. When this substance is elongated, it creates a tickling in the throat, and sometimes symptoms like those of the chronic inflamma- tion of the chest. A portion of the elongated uvula may be removed by scissars, without risk: the bleeding may be stopped by astringent gai-gles. The lateral edges of the palate are subdivided in two mus- culo-membranous folds, the anterior of which is fixed to the base of the tongue ; the other is fixed to the side of the pharynx; and between these folds the Tonsils are placed. The muscles imbedded within the arches of the palate, com- press the tonsils during deglutition, and press out their con- tents ; and hence the pain in swallowing when the tonsils are inflamed. The following are the muscles of the palate. The Petro-Palatinus, or Levator Palati. This muscle arises from the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, from which it descends, and is fixed into the middle of the soft palate, and root of the uvula. It draws the soft palate upwards during deglutition, so as to prevent the food from getting into the nose. Pterygo-Palalinus, or Circumjlexus Palati. This muscle takes its origin from the spinous processes of