OF THE LIVER. 555 active and robust always smaller than in the sedentary and luxurious;—an observation which also holds true with regard to the inferior animals. The liver of birds that are domesti- cated has been remarked by Robinson, to be larger than that of the same species of birds, in their wild state. In quadrupeds the liver is proportionally larger than in man, and divided into a greater number of lobes; and in fishes and mollusca it is proportionally still larger. Generally speaking, the weight of the human liver, of a healthy man, between 20 and SO years of age, is equal to 3 lb. or 41b. Troy. In consequence of disease, I have seen it weigh 20 lb. or 25 lb.; and, on the other hand, it sometimes does not weigh as many ounces. It is impossible, by mere inspection, to form a correct estimate of the weight of the liver ; for there are some organic derangements which render the liver of a more compact texture, and there are others which have a con- trary effect. Of the Situation of the Liver. The liver is contained within, and defended by the ribs, and their connecting cartilages; it ascends within the chest, so as to be opposite to the fifth true rib ; and descends in front, so as to project about an inch below the cartilago ensiformis of the breast-bone. The right lobe of the liver is placed obliquely in the right hypochondriac region, and is rather lower than the left lobe, which is placed horizontally, and occupies the epigastric re- gion and a part of the left hypochondriac region. Much pains have been taken by anatomists, and especially by Portal, to discover the exact position of the liver, in re- spect to the contiguous parts; but I doubt whether such an accurate knowledge as he wished, can be gained, by examin- ing the dead body; because the bowels of the abdomen, du- ring life, mutually support each other, and all of them are supported by their parietes; whereas, by a general relaxation of the ligaments, and yielding of the parts after death, the liver is not supported, and falls down lower than during life. Even during life, the position of the liver undergoes a most