201 OF THE CXANIOMETEll. I have put in a note Dr Leach’s explanation of the terms But all craniometers made of wood or metal are objection- able ; such unyielding materials not adapting themselves to the inequalities of the surface of the skull. In illustration of what I have affirmed, 1 shall take the os fronds as an example. Thus the frontal sinuses scarcely exist at the period of birth, but in the adult are generally conspicuous, and in the male sometimes very large: the common craniometer, when applied to the os fronds, is laid along the most prominent part of this bone; it therefore gives the angle which is formed by the projecting os fronds opposite to the frontal sinus, but not the angle formed by the os fronds above the frontal sinuses; so that the os fronds has been sometimes described as being very prominent, while in truth it was the reverse, the projection being caused by the large • The superior basi-facial angle, is measured by drawing two lines, the first parallel with the palatine process of the superior maxillary bone and foramen magnum occipitale, the second resting on the middle of the antinial portion of the glabella, and continued over the bones of the nose until it meets the first line ; and the angle of their junction is termed the superior basi-facial angle. I may observe, that this, and all the other measurements here stated, were first pro- posed by Dr Barclay in his “ New Anatomical Nomenclature,” a work now in general use amongst zoologists. In the two first measurements we have ven- tured to alter the facial line, which Dr Barclay causes to rest on the suture formed by the nasal bones and nasal process of the superior maxilla, whereas oun is drawn along the mesial plane. Figures of two instruments for measuring the skull are given in Dr Brewster’s New Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, under the article Craniometry. The inferior basi-facial angle differs from the above in being the basilar line resting on the foramen magnum and chin in the mesial plane. The Inio-glabellar diameter is the distance between the back part of the head, or Inion, and the glabella, or forehead. The anterior transverse diameter is measured across the narrowest part of the forehead, which is always the antinial portion in man. The posterior transverse diameter, across the skull, is measured from the centres of ossification of the parietal bones. The Corono-basdar diameters are ascertained by causing one line to rest on the foramen magnum and palate, another on the coronal aspect of the cranium, and measuring their distance from each other.