OF THE ULNA. 251 sor cubiti. There is also a second process, which is sharp at its end, and therefore is named coronoul. Between these two processes, there is a large semicircular concavity; the surface of which, on each side of a middle rising, is slanting, and exactly adapted to the pully of the bone of the arm. Across the middle of it, there is a small sinuosity, where, as well as in a small hollow on the internal side of it, the cartilage that lines the rest of its surface is wanting. Round the brims of this concavity the bone is rough, for the better fixing of the capsular ligament of the joint. Immediately below the olecranon, on the back-part of the ulna, the surface of the bone is flat. At the internal side of this there is a larger hollow surface, where the musculus anconseus is lodged; and the ridge at the inside of this gives rise to the musculus supinator radii brevis. Between the top of this ridge and the coronoid process, there is a semilunated smooth cavity, lined with cartilage, on which the round head of the radius revolves. Below the root of' the coronoid pro- cess, this bone is scabrous and unequal, for the insertion of the brachialis internus muscle. On the outside of this, we observe a smooth concavity, where the flexor digitorum pro- fundus takes its origin. The body of the ulna is triangular. The internal angle is very sharp, where the ligament that connects the two bones is fixed : The sides which make this angle, are flat and rough. At the distance of one-third of the length of the ulna from the top, in its fore-part, the medullary vessels enter the bone. The external side of this bone is smooth, and somewhat convex, and the angles at each edge of it are blunted. As this bone descends, it becomes gra- dually smaller; so that its lower end terminates in a little head, standing on a small neck : Towards the fore but outer part of which last there is an oblique ridge, that gives rise to the pronator radii quadratus. The head is round, smooth, and covered with a cartilage on its internal side, to be re- ceived into the semilunar cavity of the radius; while a styloid process rises from its outside, to which a strong ligament that is extended to the os cuneiforme and pisiforme of the wrist is fixed.