i51 OF THE OS ETHM01DES. "with the cuneiform bone, by a suture common to both these bones, though it is generally esteemed part of the sphenoidal. Where the ossa plana are contiguous to the frontal bone within the orbit, their conjunction is reckoned part of the transverse suture. Farther forward than the ossa plana, the cells are covered by the ossa unguis, which are not only con- tiguous to these cells, but cannot be separated from them, without breaking the bony substance. Below the ossa unguis and plana, these cells and ossa spongiosa are overlapped by the maxillary bones. The cellular part of each palate-bone is contiguous to each os planum, and cells backwards. The lower edge of the nasal perpendicular plate is received into the furrow of the vomer. Its posterior edge is joined to the fore part of the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. Its upper edge joins -the nasal process of the frontal and nasal ^ bones, and its anterior one is connected to the middle carti- lage of the nose. This bone sustains the anterior lobes of the brain ; gives passage to the olfactory nerves, and attachment to the falx; renders the organ of smelling more acute, by in- creasing the surface over which the membrane of the nose is extended; straitens the passage of the air through the nose, by leaving only a narrow winding canal, on the sensible mem- branous sides of which the substances conveyed along with the air must strike; this bone forms part of the orbit of the eyes and septum narium. On account of the thinness of this bone, an ozaena is diffi- cult to cure ; and from violent scurvies, or the lues venerea, the fabric of the nose, the eyes, and life itself, are in danger. Fractures of the nasal plate are dangerous, when occasioned by a force applied to their middle fore-part, of a person in whom this nasal plate is perpendicular *. The ethmoid bone of a child is divided into two, by a per- pendicular cartilage, which, when ossified, constitutes the crista galli, and nasal plate. * Vid. also Schneider de osse cribriformi.—Santorini’s obs. anat. and the 6th of Morcani adversar. anatomica,—IIaller Tab. Narium intemarum.— Blumenbach dc Sinibus frontalibus.