ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 364 the natural strength of which probably depends upon the number of fibres which enter into their composition ; but when we consider that one man is stronger than another in the legs, whilst another is stronger in the hands, and a third can lift a much greater weight,—the effect of habit in giving strength, mobility, and dexterity in the use of particular mus- cles, and the astonishing muscular efforts which delicate wo- men are capable of making during a paroxysm of hysteria or mania, and the sudden and great degree of debility occasion- ed by fear, the insufficiency of such calculations appears ob- vious, being applicable to individual cases only. There are, besides, various causes, which I shall enumerate, which tend to diminish the force of the muscles. The causes which tend to diminish the force of muscles are, !«?£, Half the power is exerted on a fixed part of the body. 2d, When muscles act in concert, they do not act in the same line; hence the force must be as in the diagonal, and thus the muscular contraction is divided between different muscles, and fatigue of any particular muscle is avoided. 3d, A great source of loss of power results from the obli- quity of the insertion of a muscle into the bone which it is intended to move. 4i/q Perhaps there may be another cause of loss of power, owing to a muscle passing over two joints, where a consider- able part of its force is expended in pressing one bone against another at the articulation. 5th, From the muscles being parallel to the bones they move, there must be a great loss of power. 6th, In consequence of old age the muscles lose a proportion of their contractile power; thus old people stand with their joints bent, the extensor muscles having*-?ist a certain propor- tion of their contractile power. 7*/t, The fleshy fibres of a muscle are so disposed with re- spect to the tendon, as not to act in a line with it : hence a very great loss of power; and, in like manner, the general obliquity of the muscular fibres also produces, as in the pen- niform muscles, a great loss of power.