ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 50 Is Bone deposited in a solid or fluid state ? Solid bone has been supposed by Dr Nisbet to exist in the blood : he thought he could perceive bony particles floating in the blood. “ What has now been observed concerning the different manners of bony production, and the phenome- na which are visible during the progress of ossifications with- in cartilaginous parts, are fully sufficient to prove all bony particles to be originally contained in the blood, or a fluid se- creted from it The above opinion seems to be corroborated by the experi- ments of Mr Bonhomme, who has stated, that he had found the process of ossification may be accelerated, by mixing a proportion of phosphate of lime with the food of animals; and also, that diseases, originating from a deficiency of earthy mat- ter in the bones, may be cured by similar means. But, not- withstanding the great attention which modern chemists have devoted to the analysis of the blood, they have not dis- covered in it bony particles. But the above observations are entirely hypothetical, and throw no light on the subject they profess to explain. Se- cretion is a much more complex process than the merely straining through vessels certain solids or fluids, which exist in the blood. Bile, urine, semen, mucus, and secreted fluids, are not contained in the blood, nor is the bony matter. Se- cretion is a very complex process, in proof of which I shall cite an experiment of Vauquelin, who confined a hen for a fortnight, carefully examined the food of the animal and the eggs she laid, and found, that in that space of time there was an excess of 500 grains of the carbonate of lime, but that a por- tion of the silica had disappeared ; which is sufficient evidence of secretion of bone being a very different function than is implied by the observations of Dr Nisbf.t or Mr Bonhomme. It may be observed, upon Mr Vauquelin’s experiment, that, as he was not acquainted with the state of the hen when the experiment v'as begun, it does not determine the exact * Vid. Human Osteogeny, p. 27.