ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 166 palate and sphenoid bones are joined to it. The alveolar, at the lower circumference of this bone, is reckoned the fifth. Ihe sixth is the horizontal plate, which forms the greater part of the base of the nostrils, and roof of the mouth ; its upper surface, which belongs to the nostrils, is very smooth, but the other below is arched and rough, for the more firm adhesion of the membrane of the mouth, which is stretched upon it. The seventh rises like a spine from the inner edge of the last, and forms a small part of the partition of the nostrils. The depressions in each maxillary bone are, 1. A sinuosity behind the orbitar process, made by the temporal muscle. 2. A pit immediately before the same process, where the ori- gin of the musculus elevator labiorum communis, and elevator labii superioris, with a branch of the fifth pair of nerves, are lodged securely. 3. The hollow arch of the palate. 4. The semicircular great notch, or entry to the lower part of the nos- trils, betwixt the root of the nasal process and spine of the pa- late plate. Below this, the fore-part of the bone is flat, or sometimes hollowed by the musculus depressor labii supe- rions. 5. Sockets for the teeth ; The number of these sockets is uncertain ; for all persons have not the same number of teeth, and the four backmost teeth of each side of each jaw vary greatly in their number of roots; and when the teeth of a living person fall out, or are taken away, the sockets are filled up with an osseous net-work, which becomes solid after- wards. 6. The lacrymal fossa in the nasal process, which as- sists the os unguis to form a passage for the lacrymal duct. The part of the bone forming this fossa, is thick, and cannot be readily perforated. Immediately on the outside of this, there is a small depression, from which the inferior or lesser oblique muscle of the eye has its origin. 7. The canal on the upper part of the great tuberosity within the orbit, which is almost a complete hole ; in this a branch of the superior max- illary nerve passes. Besides these, the superior surface of the great bulge is concave, to receive the under part of the eye. Immediately above the transverse ridge in the nasal pro- cess, a small hollow is formed by the os spongiosum. In some