539 OF THE MESENTERY. The intestines are fixed to the broad extremity of the me- sentery, and being longer than it, have the appearance of be- ing gathered or puckered to it. Owing to the above beautiful mechanical contrivance, their convolutions are kept in a cer- tain relative position, and though very moveable, cannot be en- tangled or involved with each other or displaced, and at the same time are evidently less liable to be injured by external violence. The mesentery also serves to lodge, conduct and defend the arteries, veins, and nerves proper to the intestines, and also the lacteal vessels, which take their rise from the in- ner surface of the intestines. It sometimes happens, that there are one or more processes of two or three inches in length, which are connected with the smaller intestines, and terminate in a blind end. We ge- nerally meet with only one such appendix, but I have seen a few examples of two or even three such appendices connected with the smaller intestines. These appendices are of a cylindri- cal form and have the same size and same coats as the other parts of the smaller intestines. It has been matter of much disputation, whether such appendices, which are found within herniae, are more frequently an original formation, or were formed after the protrusion of the bowel. The latter of these opinions is to me the more probable. It is not easy to see how it should happen, that that particular portion of intestine ha- ving an appendix connected with it, should chance to get into the hernial sac. It is more probably formed, by the elongation of the adhering part of the intestine, within the hernial sac, which is the consequence of the vermicular action of the in- testines. The adhering portion is thus extended into a cul de sac, and this happens more especially in crural hernia, in which the bowels pass through a narrow aperture with unyielding boundaries. Of the Lcvrger Intestines. The larger intestines, which surround the smaller, extend from the caput coecura coli to the anus, and are distinguished from the smaller by their size, form, situation, appendices, epiploicac, connections, and functions. The situation of the