OF THE FORM OF THE SKULL. 199 various inhabitants of the globe, but have devised means for more distinctly defining these.. Much praise is due to Dau- benton, Albert Durer, Camper, and Blumenbach, and more especially to the latter, who has formed by far the most extensive collection of skulls that exists, and who has enriched, to a great extent, this department of natural his- tory, by many novel and interesting facts. Of the method proposed by Daubenton, mention has been already made* * : it indicates some of the distinctions between man and the inferior animals, but it is not a complete index to the distinctions between the different races of men. The method of Camper has been already explained *f*, to- gether with the objections to which it is liable. Blumenbach arranges the skulls in a row, and examines them from be- hind. Thus he sees the breadth and narrowness of the fore- head, its arched or flat form, and the direction of the jaws and teeth, and this he has called his Norma Verticalis. But such a view is partial, and does not present to us many im- portant differences in the shape of the bones of the face, es- pecially the very different form of the orbits, and many of the peculiarities of the upper and under jaw bones. He seems to have been fully aware of the imperfection of his method, and more especially after his collection of skulls had become more extensive. Cuvier has proposed a different method of measuring the size of the skull, and its proportions to the bones of the face. “ We may (he has observed) discover more important re- lations in considering the cranium and the face, under the vertical and longitudinal section of the head With respect to their relative proportions, the cranium in this section occupies an area sometimes greater, sometimes less, and sometimes nearly equal to that of the face. In the European, the area of the section of the cranium is almost four times greater than that of the face, the lower jaw not in- cluded. f Vide p. 121. "f Supra, p. 169. * VideCuvjER, translated by Ross, p. 10.