120 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. mcnL oi the brain, is full and large in proportion to the bones of the face, but the proportions are reversed in the inferior animals; for the bones of the face arc very prominent, and of- ten prolonged into a long snout, whilst those of the cranium, properly so called, are sunk as it were between the bones of the face. The line of the forehead of quadrupeds is very ob- lique : the forehead is narrow; the head is narrower above than at the orbits ; and the eyes of the inferior animals are so placed that they see objects placed laterally, or even in some instances those that are behind them. The greater expansion of the bones proper to the cranium, which indicates a large brain, has always been supposed to be characteristic of the superiority of the human intellect; and, on the other hand, large and extensive bones of the face indi- cate large and more perfect organs of smelling and tasting. In short, the more the skull of an animal deviates as to vo- lume from that of a man, the more ferocious and more stupid the animal. That a large and prominent forehead is connected with su- periority of intellect and beauty, is not a modern notion. The .Greeks acted upon it in the construction of the busts of their gods and illustrious men, and even in many instances “ over- stepped the modesty of nature,” conceiving that, by elevating the forehead, they gave superior dignity of character, and raised their gods or heroes beyond the level of ordinary men *. It may be also remarked, that the forehead of the modern Greeks is much elevated. Dr Holland, whose long re- sidence in Greece enabled him to judge accurately as to this point, has lately (January 1824*) informed me by letter, that the form of the cranium somewhat tends towards the conical outline, but without losing the breadth of the frontal bones, which make a bold arch towards the apex of the head. To Sir Walter Scott I am much indebted, for the permission he g'ave me to examine a parietal bone and an os Irontis which jvere sent to him, together with several other fragments of Vide Winkelmank, Hist, dc 1'art dc l'Antiquitc.