267 OF THE THIGH-BONE. vex part of which is divided into three different surfaces; that on the fore-part is rough, for the insertion of the glutaeus mi- nimus ; but the superior one into which the glutaeus medius is inserted is smooth; and that behind is flat and smooth, as the tendon of the glutaeus maximus passes over it. The upper edge of this process to which the muscle called glutaeus medius is fixed, is pointed, but farther forwards there are two depressions, into which the obturator internus and pyriformis muscles are inserted. From the posterior prominent part of this great trochanter, a rough ridge runs backwards and downwards, into which the O O quadratus femoris is inserted. In the deep hollow, at the internal upper side of this ridge, the obturator externus is implanted. More internally, a pro- cess, called trochanter minor, is placed, for the insertion of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles; and the pectineus is im- planted into a rough hollow below its internal root. The muscles inserted into these two processes are the prin- cipal instruments of the rotatory motion of the thigh. On account of the tendons which are fixed into, or pass over the great trochanter, a bruise of this part is often at- tended with great pain and weakness of the limb, which are of long duration. The body of the os femoris is convex before, and concave behind, even in the child at the period of birth. The fore part of. the thigh-bone is somewhat flat, and also below. Its external surface is likewise flat below; on the posterior con- cave surface there is a ridge on its middle, called linea as- pera, into which the triceps is inserted; and the short head of the biceps flexor crucis rises from it. At the upper part of it the medullary vessels enter by a small hole that runs obliquely upwards; a little above which there is a rough fossa, for the insertion of the ten- don of the glutaeus maximus. The lower end of the linea aspera divides into two, which descend toward eacli side. The two vasti muscles in part arise from these ridges; and the long tendon of the triceps is fixed to the internal, by