230 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tries, says Mr Keate *, which science or the gentler arts, have never reached, we observe a wonderful disparity. Some are found under that darkness, and absolute barbarism, from the sight of which humanity gladly turns aside, whilst others, unaided, unassisted, but by mere natural good sense, have not only emerged from this gloomy shade, but have nearly at- tained that order, propriety and good conduct, which consti- tute the essence of real civilization. Pjunce Le Boo, whose portrait adorns Mr Keate’s book, is represented as having a large forehead, large eyes, broad face, rather short nose, and wide nostrils, and a large mouth. The character of this amiable Prince has been most emphatically given by Dr C. Smyth, in his letter to Mr Keate, in which he has described that Prince’s death. “ Though you cannot bring him back to life, you are called upon, (particularly considering his great attachment to you) not to let the memory of so much virtue pass away unre- corded.” Mr Keate has thus described the natives of the Pelezo Islands. It was observed that all their teeth were black, and that the betel-nut and chinam, of which they had always a quid in their mouths, rendered the saliva red, which, together with their black teeth, gave their mouths a very disgusting appear- ance. They were of a middling stature, very straight and. muscular, their limbs well formed, and had a particular ma- jestic manner in walking; but their legs, from a little above their ancles to the middle of their thighs, were tatooed so very thick, as to appear dyed of a far deeper colour than their skin ; their hair was of a fine black, long, and rolled up be- hind, in a simple manner, close to the back of their heads, and appeared both neat and becoming. None of them, except the younger of the King’s two brothers, had a beard; and it was afterwards observed, in the course of a longer acquaintance with them, that they in general plucked out their beards by Vide Introduction, p. 7.