MUSCLES OF THE FOllE-ARM. 433 radii longus and pronator teres, into a small tubercle on the upper and inner side of the radius, and into the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. By this muscle the fore-arm is bent, the hand is turned supine, the fascia is tightened, and the arm is raised towards the shoulder. I saw, some months ago, an instance in which the elbow had been dislocated for some years: the radius projected con- siderably upwards and forwards, the ulna was destroyed, and had been cast out; notwithstanding which, the man could bend the fore-arm a little, and also perform the pronation and supination of the hand. Humero-Ulnaris, or Brachialis Interims. This oblong, thick, and broad muscle takes its rise from the lower third of the anterior part of the os humeri; it is fixed, by many fleshy fibres, to the surface of the os humeri, and it gradually diminishes in breadth as it passes over the joint, adhering firmly to the capsular ligament, and is fixed into the coronoid process of the ulna. Of the Extensor Muscles. Olecrano-Sccipularis or Triceps Extensor Cubiti. This muscle covers the back of the arm ; it arises by three heads. The first or longest share of this muscle arises from the edge of the scapula near its neck ; the second head arises from the posterior surface of the os humeri; and the third or shortest, which lies immediately under the skin of the back part of the arm, arises from that part of the posterior part of the os humeri which is below the glenoid cavity. The three heads are united by a broad tendon, which covers the posterior part of the humerus, and is fixed into the upper and outer part of the olecranon ulnae, and into the condyles of the os humeri. As these muscles take their origin from the trunk of the lxxly, they may either move the arm upon the trunk of the body, or the trunk upon the arm. If the arm be forcibly drawn downwards, so as to hold a book below the arm, the latissimus dorsi and lower portion of the greater pectoral co- vol. i. Ee