ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 26a also gives protection to the nerves, and tendons of the fingers. The substance of these bones is spongy and cellular, but strong in respect of their bulk. The three first bones of the carpus are articulated with the cavity at the carpal ends of the bones of the fore-arm ; so as to allow motion to all sides, and, by a quick succession of these motions, they may be moved in a circle. But as the joint is oblong, and therefore the two dimensions are unequal, no motion is allowed to the carpus round its axis, except during the pronation and supination of the hand. The three bones of the superior row, are articulated in such a manner, with the bones of the inferior, as allows of motion, especially backwards and forwards; to the security and easi- ness of which the reception of the os magnum into the cavity formed by the scaphoides and lunare contributes considerably : the greater number of the muscles that move the wrist on the radius, being inserted beyond the conjunction of the first row of bones with the second, act equally on this articulation as they do on the former; and the joint formed with the radius being the most equally moved, the first effect of these muscles is on it; and the second row of the carpus is only moved af- terwards., which contributes to extend the sphere of motion of the wrist. The surfaces of articulation of the other bones are plain, firmly fixed by ligaments to each other, and scarcely allow of motion. All the bones of the carpus are in a cartilaginous state at the time of birth. On account of the number of ten- dons that pass upon the lower end of the fore-arm and the carpus, and of the numerous ligaments, the pain of sprains of the wrist is acute, and the parts take long time to recover their tone. Of the Metacarpus. The Metacarpus consists of four bones, which sustain the fingers. Each bone is long and round, with its ends larger than its body. The upper end or base is flat and oblong, without any considerable head or cavity; but is somewhat hollowed, for the articulation with the carpus ; and