OF THE OSSA MxiXILLARIA SUPElilOllA. 169 This cavern, and the sockets of the teeth, are often divided by the interposition only of a very thin bony plate, whiclj is liable to be eroded by acrid matter collected in the antrum, or to be broken in drawing a tooth *. Matter collected within the antrum may be discharged by pulling out the teeth, and piercing through this plate into the antrum. The extremities of the roots of the teeth sometimes perfo- rate the floor of this cavity ; hence, when it is the object of the surgeon to let out purulent matter contained within it, all that is necessary is to extract the second or third grinding tooth. A thin mucous membrane, continued from that which lines the bones of the nose, lines the antrum. Polypi sometimes grow from the mucous membrane lining the antrum, and oc- casion an enlargement and distortion of the cavity, and, by raising the orbitar process of the bone, the eye-ball is more or less pushed out of its socket. Fungi of the antra maxillaria are by no means unfrequent. These occasion very great distortion of the face, a protrusion of the eye-ball, impede the flow of tears into the nose, and cause a discharge of a sanious fluid from the nostrils. The bones in the vicinity of the antrum are ultimately destroyed, and the fungus protrudes through the palate and alveolary processes, or through the cheek. The maxillary bones are joined above by the upper ends of their nasal processes to the os frontis, by the transverse suture; at the sides of these processes, to the ossa unguis, by the lacrymal sutures; to the nasal bones, by the lateral nasal sutures; by their orbitar processes, to the cheek-bones, by the external orbitar sutures; by the internal sides of the in- ternal orbitar processes, to the ossa plana, by part of the eth- moidal suture; by the back-part of the tuberosities, to the palate-bones, by the suturae palato-maxillares ; by the poste- rior edges of their palatine lamellae, to the ossa palati, by the transverse palate suture ; by their nasal spines, to the yomer. * Highmore, Disquis. Anat. lib. 3. t Cowper, in Drake’s Anthropol. Book 3. chap. 10. Medical Essays and Ob- serv. vol, v. Art. 30.