ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 96 cesses, in such bones as are strongly marked by the muscles, a semicircular ridge is extended to the hollow passage of the sciatic nerve. Between the spine and this ridge, the glutseus medius takes its rise. Immediately from above the lowest of the anterior spinal processes, a second ridge is stretched to the niche. Between this and the former ridge, the glutaeus minimus has its origin. On the outside of the posterior spi- nal processes, the dorsum of the os ilium is flat and rough, where part of the musculus glutaeus maximus and pyriformis rise. The lowest part of this bone is the thickest, and is formed into a large cavity with high brims, to assist in com- posing the great acetabulum; which shall be considered, af- ter all the three bones that constitute the os innominatum are described. The internal surface of the os ilium is concave in its broad- est fore part, and gives rise to the internal iliac muscle, and also lodges and supports a part of the intestinum ilium and colon. From this large hollow, a small sinuosity is continued ob- liquely forwards, at the inside of the anterior inferior spinal process, where part of the psoas and iliacus muscles, with the crural vessels and nerves, pass. The large concavity is bound- ed below by a sharp ridge, which runs from behind forwards; and, being continued with such another ridge of the os pubis, forms a line of partition between the abdomen and pelvis. In- to this the broad tendon of the psoas parvus is inserted. The internal surface of the os ilium, behind this ridge, is very unequal: For the upper part is flat, but spongy, where the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi rise. Lower down there is a transverse ridge, from which *liga- ments go out to the os sacrum. Immediately below this ridge, the rough unequal cavities and prominences are placed, which are exactly adapted to those described on the side of the os sacrum. The upper part of this rough surface is porous, for the firmer adhesion of the ligamentous cellular substance; while the lower part is more solid, and covered with a thin cartilagi- nous skin, for its immoveable articulation with the os sacrum. 2