ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 38 The bones in their healthy state possess but a small share of sensibility ; they may be sawn or cut without creating much pain. The nerves proper to the bones are but of small size, ex- cepting those of the teeth, which, as my Father has observed in his book upon the Nerves, are very large in proportion to the size of the teeth. If sensibility is a proof of nerves entering into the compo- sition of any part, we have sufficient evidence of nerves being- proper to the bones; for the granulated red flesh which sprouts out from them, after an amputation of a limb, or per- forming the operation of the trepan, or after an exfoliation, is exquisitely sensible; and, in some ulcers of bones, where the periosteum was separated, the patient suffered acute pain, if the bone was touched with a rough instrument; nor was he free of pain after the bone was perforated. The granulated flesh which sprouts from the bones after amputation, or after an exfoliation, is extremely sensible. Ulceration of the bones is attended with very acute pain. Of the Bloodvessels of Bones. The bloodvessels proper to bones enter their surfaces from the periosteum or by separate foramina. The bloodvessels of the bones are much more numerous than we should expect from their colour, for the earth of the bone conceals them; and hence they are not apparent, after being filled by a red injection, until the earth of the bone has been destroyed by steeping it in the nitric or muriatic acids. When a bone, thus prepared, is put into oil of tur- pentine, its vessels are quite obvious. The arteries of the bones may be traced in their course from the pits to the plates and fibres of the bones, and in sawing, cutting, or rasping the bones of a living animal, drops of blood are discharged, even from the most solid parts of the bones. That a great number of arteries enter into the composition of the bones is obvious, from the effect of mad- der given along with the food of animals, which gradually communicates its tinge to every part of the bone.