ELEMENTS OF ANATOMV. 524 which secrete the gastric juice are of a large size, and their ducts, which open upon the inner surface of the stomach, are quite obvious to the eye. At the lower orifice of the stomach there is a distinct cir- cular muscle, which has been called Pylorus, which is covered by the cellular and villous coats of the stomach, and varies as to form and size * This circular muscle performs its office so accurately, that, with a few exceptions f, substances do not pass out of the stomach until they have been, to a certain de- gree, digested; and in birds that swallow stones along with their food, we rarely meet with these stones in the intestinal canal. The bloodvessels of the stomach are large and numerous, and freely communicate with each other. The arteries are derived from the coeliac artery, and the corresponding veins assist in forming the vena portarum. The stomach receives nerves from the eighth pair, and also from the great sympa- thetic nerve. The lymphatic vessels of the stomach are numerous, and they pass through small glands, situated on the smaller and larger curvature, and afterwards go to the thoracic duct. SECTION III. OF CHYMIFICATION, OR OF THE CHANGES WHICH THE FOOD UNDERGOES WITHIN THE STOMACH. The food within the stomach is converted into a greyish pulpy mass, called Chyme. • Soemmering, (de Corporis Humani Fabrica, tom. vi. pag. 222.) speaking of the Pylorus, has observed, “ Forma, magnitudo, crassities atque ostium hujus pylori ad sequentes tres varietates prsecipuas redigi possunt: Interdum integer quidem annulus est, sed tenuis, ex orbibus concentricis formatus, amplus spati- oso admodum ostio. Interdum pars annuli aliquo reliquo ambitu latior est, et ostium modice amplum ovatum. Interdum annulus parvus, oblongus, ovatus ostio oblonge ovato, et valde angusto hians.” -j- I cannot agree with Majendie, in considering the term Pylorus or Porter as inapplicable to the pylorus, though such substances, as plum or cherry stones, occasionally pass through it.