elements of anatomy. 336 The lower limbs are firm columns, well calculated to sup- port the weight of the body. The thigh bones are placed directly under the pelvis : their axis corresponds with the centre of gravity of the body, whereas the thigh-bones of the inferior animals form an angle with the spine; which in many animals is acute. Owing to the greater breadth of the pelvis, and length of the necks of the thigh-bones, the legs may be separated to a greater distance than in any of the inferior animals; thus the centre of gravity is made lower, and we are more secure, in the erect posture. The scapula are moveable, but the ossa innominata are firmly fixed. The glenoid are shallow cavities, and are directed outwards, and those of opposite sides are kept at a considerable distance from each other by the collar-bones ; whereas the acetabula are deep cups, and are directed downwards. The ossa humeri are much shorter and thinner than the thigh-bones, and much less securely fixed by ligaments. The two bones'of the fore arm are nearly of equal size, and the one of these, the radius, may be called a bone of the hand; it rolls readily upon the other, whereas the bones of the leg are very disproportionate in size, the larger being a firm pillar of sup- port, and the smaller possessing but a very slight degree of motion ; it is calculated rather to increase the surface from which the muscles which move the ankle and foot take their rise, than to give additional support to the body. The bones cf the wrist and ancle are very different; the former admits of considerable latitude of motion sideways, but at the ancle joint the motion is very much limited. The hand is on the same line with the fore arm ; the thumb is very moveable, and partakes .of the varied movements of the hand ; and, by its greater size in man than in the inferior animals, renders the human hand greatly superior as an organ of apprehension to that of the inferior animals, for in these the thumb is slender and weak. In all the monkey tribe, the fore-paws are excellent instruments for grasping the branches of trees, and they may be said to be four handed ; many of the