MOVEABLE CAllTILAGES WITHIN JOINTS. 323 ed within the joint of the knee, that they impressed each other nearly in the same manner as concretions in the bladders of gall and urine are observed to do. In like manner, I have several times observed small carti- laginous bodies form within the bursas of the wrist after vio- O lent sprains : and in one case, which I examined with Mr Kilgouii, surgeon at Ormistoun, I found a flat piece of move- able cartilage within the bursa of the glutaeus maximus, to which the attention of the patient had been directed by the pain it frequently gave him. In another very i-emarkable case, I found upwards of fifty cartilaginous bodies within the bursa mucosa which is placed behind the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The disten- tion of the bursa by these cartilaginous bodies gave such in- tolerable pain to the patient, that I proposed to Mr Gibson, surgeon in Edinburgh, to puncture the bursa, and to press them out at the orifice; which was accordingly done by him. The cartilaginous bodies expressed from the bursa, not on- ly resembled those taken from the joints in their consistence, but in their internal structure; both, when cut, seeming to be composed of lamellae. The manner in which such bodies form within the joints has not been satisfactorily explained. Some have supposed that they were portions of the articulating cartilages beaten off by accident from the bones * : but from the appearance of the cartilaginous bodies extracted from the bursa, one-half of which had evidently small stalks or penduncles, and that some force was necessary to make them move to the place punc- tured ; and that in two cases I have seen of cartilaginous bo- dies within the knee, in one of which an incision was made, these bodies were firmly fixed in their place; I apprehend, that all grow from or are nourished by penduncles; and it seems to me not only highly improbable that they can grow when the peduncle is broken by accident, but in one case, in which such a cartilaginous body was very moveable, I could * Med. Ess, of Edin,, Vol. iv. Art. xix.—ReiMinus dc Fungo Articul., p. 32. x 2