108 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. have not yet reached the ribs ; and, at the fore end, they are split away into branches : hence the greater safety of perform- ing the operation for the empyema towards the sides of the thorax, than either near the back or the breast. At the posterior end of each rib, a little head is formed, which is divided by a middle ridge into two plane or hollow surfaces; the lowest of which is the broadest and deepest in most of them. The two planes are joined to the bodies of two different vertebrae, and the ridge forces itself into the intervening cartilage. Round the head, the bone appears spongy, where the capsular ligament of the articulation is fixed. Immediately beyond this a flatted tubercle rises, with a small cavity at, and roughness about its root, for the articulation of the rib with the transverse process of the low- est of the two vertebras, with the bodies of which the head of the rib is joined. Advancing further on this external surface, we observe in most of the ribs another smaller tubercle, into which the ligaments, which connect the ribs to each other, and to the transverse processes of the vertebrae and portions of the longissimus dorsi, are inserted. Beyond this the ribs are made flat by the sacro-lumbalis muscle, which is inserted into the part of this flat surface farthest from the spine, where each rib makes a considerable curve, called by some its angle. Then the rib begins to turn broad, and continues so to its anterior end *, which is hollow and spongy, for the reception of, and firm coalition with, the cartilage that runs thence to be insert- ed into the sternum, or to be joined with some other carti- lage. In adults generally, the cavity at this end of the ribs is smooth and polished on its surface ; by which the articulation of the cartilage with it has the appearance of being designed for motion ; but it has none. The substance of the ribs is spongy, cellular, and only co- vered with a very thin external lamellated surface, in which the fibres are more distinct than in most other bones, and which increases in thickness and strength as it approaches * TlXcirn, Palmula.