ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 254 vity, lined with a cartilage, for receiving the lower end of the ulna. The carpal extremity of the radius is extended into an ob- long cavity ; in the middle of which there is a small transverse rising, gently hollowed; while the rising itself is insinuated into the conjunction of the two bones of the wrist that are re- ceived into the cavity. This joint is bounded on each side by the ligaments which pass from the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, to the wrist. The bones of the fore-arm are firmly bound together by an interosseous ligament, from the surfaces of which various muscles take their rise between the radius and ulna. But this ligament is wanting near the upper end of the fore-arm, where the supinator radii brevis, and flexor digitorum profundus, are immediately connected *. Both ends of the bones of the fore-arm are first cartilages, and then epiphyses, in children. As the head of the radius receives the tubercle of the os humeri, it is not only bent and extended along with the ul- na, but may be moved round its axis in any position : That this motion round its axis may be sufficiently extensive, the ligament of the articulation is extended farther down than or- dinary on the neck of this bone, before it is connected to it •, and it is very thin at its upper and lower part, but makes a firm ring in the middle. There is a double articulation between the radius and ulna; for above, a tubercle of the radius plays in a socket of the ulna ; whilst below, the radius gives the socket, and the ulna the tubercle: at the humeral extremity, the radius revolves round its axis, but at the carpal extremity, it moves in a sort of cy- cloid upon the round part of the ulna; and as the hand is articulated and firmly connected here with the radius, they must move together. When the palm is turned uppermost, the radius performs the supination ; when the back of the hand is above, it is said to be prone. The quickness and large extent of these two Weitdhecht, Syndesmolog. fig. 10, 11.