OF THE SKELETON. 17 3d The bones of the skeleton are said to be disposed sym- metrically, by which it is meant to be implied, that there is an exact correspondency of the opposite sides; for by a verti- cal plane from before, backward, the skeleton may be divided into two equal and similar parts. But the above observation should be received with some limitation, for in many in- stances the opposite bones are not exactly similar to each other, and in many cases one bone inclines more to one side than the other corresponding to it. ±th, The bones defend from external injury the brain, heart, lungs, and other organs, on which life moie imme- diately depends; and also many of the larger bloodvessels and nerves in their progress ; hence, by a knowledge of the bones, a surgeon becomes acquainted with their relative situation in re- spect to the arteries, and with the means of stopping bleed- ing, by pressing the arteries against the contiguous bones. 5th, The skeleton forms an essential part of the organs of locomotion, being an immoveable fulcrum for the action of the muscles and their tendons; hence when the bones are rendered soft by disease, we lose the power of locomotion. The bones of the spine and extremities of the body, form solid, though flexible columns, capable of being moved in va- rious directions. 6th, The extremities of the bones give form to the joints; and this connection has been termed their articulation. The increased volume of the extremities of the bones tends to render the joints more secure,—is conducive to the sym- metry of the limbs, the bellies of the muscles being attached to the middle parts of the bones, and the tendons to their protuberances,—increases the force of the muscles, which bend and extend the members,—prevents the risk of attrition, laceration, or compression of those muscles, or their tendons, which are necessary for the motion of the joint,—and protects from injury or pressure, during our sudden movements, or changes of curvature, the bloodvessels and nerves in the vi- cinity of the moveable joints. von. i. n