540 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. larger intestines is more constant and defined than that of the smaller intestines. The caput coecum coli is fixed down to the right os ilium by the peritonaeum, which therefore may be opened from behind without exposing the cavity of the abdomen. This operation may become necessary to save life, when ex- traneous bodies have been lodged for some time within this portion of intestine, and cannot be removed from it by exter- nal pressure. The appearances upon dissection, in a case in which a concretion had been lodged within the caput coecum coli, (Vide Morbid Anatomy of Gullet, &c.), clearly pointed out the practicability of such an operation, and its absolute necessity to the preservation of life. From the caput coecum coli, the colon ascends before the right kidney; it then goes upwards and backwards under the _iver, then passes across the body from right to left, under the stomach and spleen ; with which it is connected by the omen- tnm majus. It descends on the left side of the abdomen, and before the left kidney, and then is incurvated, forming what has been called, from its resemblance to the sigma (<r) of the Greeks, its Sigmoid Fleocure, which rests upon the left os ilium. It after- wards descends into the pelvis along the concave surface of the os sacrum, and ossa coccygis. This portion of the large intestine has commonly, but improperly, been called intesti- num rectum, for it is by no means straight; but follows the same course as the bones, to which it is fixed by the periton- aeum. The lower extremity of the rectum forms the anus. The larger intestines have been divided by anatomists into the caput coecum coli, the ascending part of the colon ; the left decending portion ; the sigmoid flexure, and that part at- tached to the os sacrum, which has been named the rectum, al- though it should rather have been called curvum, as it de- scribes a portion of the same curve as the os sacrum. The colon is not of an equal size. The caput coecum coli, situated on the right os ileum, is the most capacious portion