124 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. -plied to eacli other; and vessels go from the dura mater into a great many small holes observable in the pits. These vessels arelarger than the others that pass from the dura mater to the skull; as evidently appears from the discharge of blood in the recent subject, when the skull is raised from the dura mater. Over these pits the skull is re- markably thin; therefore, surgeons ought to saw cautiously and slowly through the external table of the skull, when they are performing the operation of the trepan ; as the dura mater and brain may be injured before the instrument has pierced a skull of the ordinary thickness. The inner surface of the skull is very uneven, being deep- ly imprinted by the contained parts ; and besides, there are many eminences for the bloodvessels and nerves connected with the brain and smaller brain. The bones of the cranium are composed of two tables, which arc not parallel to each other, and of intermediate ccincelli, commonly called their diploe. The external table is rather thicker than the inner, which, on account of its thinness and brittleness, has been called vitrea. The diploe is similar in texture, and of equal utility, to the skull, as the cancelli in other bones. Some animals, especial- ly the elephant, have this of very considerable thickness. The arteries and veins of the diploe are numerous, and freely anastomose with each other, especially the veins; and they ac- quire in old persons a more considerable size than in middle age. The diploe in some persons of middle age, and generally in the old, is obliterated; neither is it observable in some of the hard bones at the base of the skull. The diploe some- times attains the thickness of an inch, while the tables of the skull are not of an extraordinary size. Vide Plate XII. in my Outlines of Anatomy, which was copied from the skull of a rickety person. In some instances the principal artery of the dura mater is lodged between the tables of the skull. The above circumstances suggest the necessity of proceed- ing with caution in performing the operation of trephining,