ORGANS BY WHICH FOOD IS PREPARED. 475 ly with the form of the under jaw, and kind of motion of which it is susceptible. For the purpose of mastication, animals are provided with teeth, and the life of the animal depends upon the teeth : when the fore-teeth are gone, a graminivorous animal cannot crop the grass, and is deprived of its means of subsistence; but man may live after his teeth are gone, for the deficiency of teeth can, to a certain extent, be supplied by art. The form of the teeth of carnivorous and graminivorous animals is widely different. The former are of a conical shape, and act like scissors ; but the teeth of the latter are broad and slightly grooved on their surfaces, and are well adapted for triturating vegetable substances. The teeth of carnivorous animals do not suffer from attri- tion so much as those of graminivorous animals : hence the former are only encrusted by a hard coating called enamel, whereas the enamel winds through the substance of the teeth of the graminivorous animal, which are much more exposed to attrition. There are some animals, as the elephant, hippopotamus, and walrus, which, besides having teeth for masticating their food, are provided with large canine teeth, which may be con- sidered as weapons of offence; and the large canine teeth of the lion, tiger, dog, &c. assist them in catching and dividing their prey. The tongue and cheeks are so constructed as to prevent any part of the food from escaping from the teeth ; the for- mer is admirably constructed for ascertaining when the food has undergone the necessary degree of mastication, and by its flexibility the bolus of food may be turned over and over in every direction. The food of some animals undergoes a preparatory change within a large sac, or first stomach, and is returned from the first stomach and is again chewed. Some of the carnivorous animals, on the other hand, either only chew their food once, or not at all, as fishes and serpents; the latter swallow their food without chewing it. According to some travellers, when a serpent wishes to devour any animal which is too