elements of anatomy. 64 the tent, but to keep the left hand above the stuff she was twilt- ing as she had employed the right one before. She became straight, and then I discharged her sewing more at a tent till at least she was at her full stature and strength. Another girl having got into the habit of putting her right thigh upon her left knee, Avhen she was sitting employed with her needle, and bending her loins and lower part of her thorax towards the right side, while the shoulder, neck, and head, were turn- ed towards the left, became very crooked in her spine. I flat- tered her to learn to sew with her left hand, and recommend- ed the like posture, but reversed to what she had formerly, that is, to sit with the left thigh upon the right knee, the lower part of her body inclining to the left side, and the upper part to the right side : Whenever she became straight with this, I prevailed on her mother to allow her to sew no more for some years, and then to take care that the child sat straight. She is now a handsome young lady. I could give numerous his- tories of the like kind, but am afraid to be tedious. In gene- ral, let the posture you order a person with a crooked spine to stand, sit, or lie in, be the reverse of the one that contributed to the curvature. Setting one foot forward in standing, sitting on one hip, lying with pillows differently disposed, are great helps; and looking at the effects which they cause when the patient is put into any of these postures, must teach any man of common sense how they ought to be varied in the various cases in which his advice may be asked. “ If the curvature, from the unequal growth of the bones, is considerable, I generally cause the patient to wear stays with plates of steel on the outside of them, which are of such a form, and so fixed, that they may sustain the weight, and so relieve the muscles, and may at the same time counteract the curvature. If the preternatural thickness is in the back part of the vertebra, the body is bended forward with great pain in the back, and the spinal processes hurt the ligaments so much, that they are in danger of ulceration. In such a case, I would cause two thin plates of steel to be fixed to the back part of the stay, with a concave curve in each answering to the part where the curvature is, so that no pressure could be 3