288 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. Before these protuberances this bone is concave, for lodg- ing the flexor muscles; and at its fore-part we may observe a rough depression, from which the ligament originates, that prevents this bone from being separated from the os cuboides. The fore-part of the os calcis is oblong and circular at its upper external end, but is pointed below. This smooth sur- face is fitted to the os cuboides. The very strong ligaments by which the os calcis and as- tragalus are connected, prevent these bones from being moved, in order to render the os calcis, which supports a consider- able share of the weight of the body, firm. A large share of the heel-bone is ossified at the ordinary time of birth, and the large knob appears afterwards, in form of an epiphyse. Of the Os Naviculare. The Os Naviculare is somewhat circular. The oblong concavity in the posterior part of this bone receives the ante- rior head of the astralagus. On the upper surface there is a rough fossa. Below, the os naviculare is very unequal and rough ; but hollow for the safety of the muscles- On its in- side there is a large knob, from which the abductor pollicis takes in part its origin, and the tendon of the tibialis posticus is inserted into it: And to it two remarkable ligaments are fixed; the first is the strong one, formerly mentioned, which supports the astragalus; the second is stretched from this bone obliquely across the foot, to the metatarsal bones of the middle toe, and of the toe next to the little one. On the out- side of the os naviculare there is a semicircular smooth sur- face, where it is joined to the os cuboides. The fore-part of this bone is covered with cartilage, and is divided into three smooth planes, fitted to the three ossa cuneiformia. The os naviculare and astragalus are like to a ball and socket, and the naviculare moves in all directions in turning the toes inwards, or in raising or depressing either side of the foot, but the motions are much limited by the ligaments which connect this to the other bones of the tarsus. A weak-