OF FRACTURE OF THE THIGH-CONE. 273 died on the 4th day ; upon dissection, an inflammation of the arachnoid coat of the brain was discovered. The thigh- bone was found in all respects sound. The above cases shew the difficulty in distinguishing a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone ; and also, that we should not place implicit reli- ance on every case of supposed cure of the neck of the thigh- bone, that has been published. In my lectures upon Surgery, I have always endeavoured to convince my pupils, that a fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone cannot be united: and have been led to adopt that opi- nion from dissection. Sir Astley Cooper, when about to publish the appendix to his work on Fractures and Dislocations, proposed to me some queries respecting fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone ; to which I returned the following answer :—“ Edinb. Feb. 17.1823.—My dear Sir Astley. In answer to your queries respecting fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, I beg leave to inform you, that I have had an opportunity of examining only two cases after death ; and in both of these, the broken ends of the neck of the bone were united by a substance somewhat like to ligament. I have seen several persons who had, during their lives, a fracture of the neck of the bone; but in aH of them a bony re-union had not taken place. “ In the catalogue of the Museum which was bequeathed to the University by my Father, mention is made of the frac- ture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which had been re-united by bone. Upon examining this preparation with attention, it appears to me, that there has been no fracture, but a dis- ease in the trochanter major; and that a number of osseous spiculae have shot upwards within the capsular ligament, giving the appearance of an ill set fracture. Should you wish to have a drawing of this preparation, I shall have great plea- sure in sending it to you. There is also a specimen in the Museum of a fracture of the thigh, about four lines beyond the insertion of the capsular ligament, at the root of the tro- chanter. Yours most truly, ( Alexr. Monro.” VOL. I. s