ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 34 sequently the adhesion between it and the bones, is increased, and a greater number of vessels is sent from it into the bone, than if it were a plain surface. The broad bones have thin sides, by the plates being soon and equally sent oft* to form the lattice-work; which therefore is thicker, and nearly of an equal form all through. By this structure, they are well adapted to their uses of affording a surface large enough for the muscles to rise from, and move upon, and of defending sufficiently the parts which they cover. The Avails of the round bones are thick in the middle, but very thin towards their ends, owing to very few plates sepa- rating at their middle; and, on that account, the cancelli are so fine and small, that they are not taken notice of. ToAvards their ends, the lattice-Avork becomes very thick, and rather more complete than in the other sort of bones. The round shaped bones have thick sides towards their middle, where the greatest forces are frequently applied ; while their hollowness increases their diameter, and conse- quently their strength to resist forces applied to break them transversely *. Thus, for instance, in estimating the propor- tional resistance of tAvo cylindrical bones of unequal diame- ters, but consisting of an equal number of similar fibres uni- formly disposed round each, it is plain. That the absolute force of these tAvo bones is equal, because they consist of equal numbers of similar fibres. 2d, That the absolute forces of all the fibres in each bone have the same effect in resisting any poAver applied to bend and to break them, as if the sum of all their forces were united in the respective centres of the transverse sections, Avhere the fractures are to be made. For, by hypothesis, the fibres being uniformly disposed in each, there is not any fibre in either bone that has not a corresponding fibre ; the sum of both whose distances from the-axis-of revolution (about Avhich all the parts of the bone must revolve in breaking) is equal to two semidiameters of the bone : Consequently each fibre. * Gaulei Mechanic, dialog. 2,