OF TI1E PELVIS. 85 -which renders tliese bones more moveable ; and hence they may be pushed backwards about §ths of an inch during labour, •which considerably enlarges the under aperture of the pelvis, and facilitates delivery. The size of the notch in the ilium is larger in the female : the effect of this is, that, by encreasing the arch, the ossa is- chia are at a greater distance from the os sacrum, and from each other; from this circumstance, therefore, the breadth of the pelvis is greatly encreased. The greater size -of the foramina -thyroidea has not been sufficiently attended to: thus the conjoined os ischium and pu- bis form a larger circle. The upper aperture is also considerably larger in the fe- male than in the male pelvis, the os sacrum is broader ; and the distance between that bone and the symphysis pubis is greater; and in the recent body, there is a remarkable diffe- Tence in the thickness of the one or the two cartilages between the ossa pubis, which are not so deep as in the male *. Lastly, The ossa pubis in the male, form, by their junction, an acute angle; but, in the female, the angle is wider consi- derably. In short, the cavity of the pelvis, or true pelvis, is larger in the female, and bears a greater proportion to the upper part of the pelvis. It is broader in all its dimensions; hence the tuberosities of the ossa ischii, the acetabula, and spinous processes of the ossa ilii, are farther distant from each other; and of course the thigh-bones of the female are placed .more obliquely. Of the Distortion of the Femctle Pelvis. The preceding tables give a comparative view of the differ- ent diameters of the well formed and distorted pelvis. The alxn e measurements of the four distorted pelves of the female, indicate only some of the deviations from the natural form. As it was almost impossible to give accurate measure- ments of all the different diameters of the distorted pelves, I have added a few remarks on the distorted pelves in the mu- • Vide Tenon, Mem. de l’Institut dcs Sciences, torn. vi. p. 172.