272 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the subjoined notes of three cases which he had occasion to sec during his visit to the Continent, in which the above mistake had been committed. “ The Professor, to whose care the first of these was entrusted, joined Sabatieu in opinion, that the circumstance of the suf- ferer having had a fall on the trochanter is of itself a strong pre- sumption that a fracture in the neck of the thigh-bone had taken place; that his pupils were seldom mistaken as to the na- ture of the injury ; that a union of the fractured pieces of the bone readily takes place, providing proper means be adopted to retain the fractured bones in immediate contact with each other; and, lastly, that fractures of the thigh-bone happen- ing to persons under forty years of age, generally occur in the trochanters. But the very first case which happened in the practice of that Professor, proved, that a fracture may talce place in the trochanter in advanced life. On the patient’s admission into the hospital, he pronounced the case to be an instance of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, and applied with his own hands an improved apparatus for securing the perfect immobility and the extension of the limb. The pa- tient, Avho Avas sixty years of age, died on the 15th day from the receipt of the injury. The dissection proved the fracture to be across the trochanters, the head and neck of the hone being quite soimd and untouched. If the cure had been accom- plished, this would have been considered to be a cure of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone. In another hospital of the same city, a stout muscular man, of fifty years of age, was supposed to have fractured the neck of his thigh-bone, and Avas treated accordingly. He died delirious about the fifth day ; and, upon dissection, his case Avas found to be similar to the preceding. “ A third patient Avas brought into the hospital, for a fall he had met Avith on the trochanter major, Avhich rendered him quite lame. The neck of the thigh-bone Avas supposed by the Professor and his pupils to have been broken. It Avas determined to apply the usual apparatus, as soon as he had re- covered from some slight febrile symptoms, accompanied by delirium, under which he then laboured. The patient died