ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 98 is covered with a ligamentous cartilage. The outer surface of the bone at the root of this spinous process is made hollow by the pyriformis or iliacus cxternus muscle. Below the sinuosity for the obturator muscle, is the great knob or tuberosity, covered with cartilage or tendon * The upper part of the tuberosity gives rise to the inferior ge- mellus muscle. „ To a ridge at the inside of this, the posterior o sciatic ligament is so fixed, that between it the in- ternal ligament, and the sinuosity of the os ischium, a passage is left for the internal obturator muscle. The upper thick smooth part of the tuber, called by some its dorsum, has two oblique impressions on it. The inner one gives origin to the long head of the biceps flexor cruris and semitendinosus muscles, and the semimembranosus rises from the exterior one, which reaches higher and nearer the aceta- bulum than the other. The lower, thinner, more scabrous part of the knob which bends forwards, is also marked with two flat surfaces, where- of the internal is what we lean upon in sitting, and the exter- nal gives rise to the largest head of the triceps adductor fe- moris. Between the external margin of the tuberosity and the great hole of the os innominatum, there is an obtuse ridge extended down from the acetabulum, which gives origin to the quadratus femoris. As the tuber advances forwards, it becomes smaller, and is rough, for the origin of the transverse muscle of the perina?um and erector penis. The small leg of it, which mounts upwards to join the os pubis, is rough and prominent at its edge, where the two lower heads of the triceps adductor femoris take their rise. The upper and back part of the os ischium is broad and thick; but its lower and fore part is narrower and thinner. Its substance is of the structure common to broad bones. The part of the os ischium which forms the acetabulum, the spinous process, the great tuber, and the recurved leg, are all cartilaginous at birth. The tuber, with part of the * Winslow, Exposit. Anat. dcs os frnis, § 96.