OF IMPERFECTIONS OF THE SPINE. 77 The spinal cord has been said to be softer at the seat of the protrusion than is natural; but I have not always ob- served this to take place. This imperfection is sometimes complicated with Hydroce- phalus interims; so that when the head is laid lower than the rest of the body, the tumour in the back loses of its bulk, and the symptoms of oppressed brain come on, which are speedily removed on elevating the head. This disorder is generally of short duration, proving fatal in a few weeks, when the tu- mour bursts. There are, however, a few exceptions to this general observation. I possess a specimen in which the tu- mour burst repeatedly, and the patient lingered under the disease for upwards of a year : my father had a patient with the complicated form of the disease, who lived for five years; and there are a few instances on record, where the disordei: has been of longer duration. There is another kind of malconformation of the vertebrae, which, as far as I know, has not been described by any au- thor. I have seen four instances of it. In this malconforma- tion, the spinous and inferior articulating processes of the last lumbar vertebra, which form the posterior part of the bony ring, are connected to the rest of the vertebrae only by the medium of strong ligamentous substance.] In the skeleton of an Australasian, less than one-half of the bony ring is detached from the body of the bone, and also rather less than one-half of the spinous process of the last lum- bar vertebra: in the skeleton of a Negro, the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra of the left side, which is much enlarged, is connected by intervertebral substance to the uppermost piece of the os sacrum, and the outer surface of the process enters for the space of an inch and a half into the formation of the sacro-iliac symphysis on the left side: in a third specimen, the whole of the bony ring, consisting of the inferior articulating and spinous processes, is detached from the body of the bone : and in a fourth specimen, there was precisely the same malconformation of the last vertebra as in the Negro.