organs by which food is prepared. 477 ment. Dr Macbuide entertained this idea, and he found that air-bubbles arise sooner from aliment mixed with saliva than with pure water ; hence shewing it was a ferment. But Dr Fordyce remarks, that this argument is inconclusive, be- cause saliva being viscid, prevents the extrication of air-bubbles which arise, but which water allows to escape. Besides comminution and mixture with saliva, it is probable that food undergoes changes in certain reservoirs, which arc proper to ruminating animals, and which contain the food be- fore digestion. That kind of food which is easily digested, passes at once into the fourth stomach. This happens with the milk which these animals when young consume; whereas the fibrous and more indigestible parts, undergo a preparatory change within the first stomach, from which sometimes so much gas is extricated as to prove fatal : from this first stomach it is again brought up and chewed, and then it passes to the se- cond, then to the third and. fourth stomachs, remaining a longer or shorter time in each. It is probable that some change, besides mere maceration, takes place in the three up- permost stomachs, for in the second and third stomachs the food will not be further affected by maceration. It has been supposed by some authors that the pouches connected with the throats of some of the sirnicc and of the marmot, are reservoirs in which the food is accumulated. It is probable that some change takes place within the crop of birds. Pigeons and eagles are provided with a crop, which is perhaps a reservoir in which the food is collected, and which is capable of holding between twenty and thirty ounces, whereas the digesting stomach is capable of holding only two or three ounces. The large end of the stomach of every ani- mal serves the purpose of a reservoir, for when the dog is opened, the food in the large extremity has been found less di- gested, than nearer to the pylorus. The art of cookery, even to unpampered stomachs, renders our food more digestible. The heat in the cooking coagulates more or less the diffe- rent fluids ; besides this, it seems to produce a more intimate union between its different parts.