551 OF THE RECTUM. It seems not improbable, that these very opposite causes of stricture may be occasionally combined; as all patients who labour under a permanent obstruction, suffer occasionally from a considerable aggravation of the symptoms. Besides those strictures occasioned by a thickening of the valvula? conniventes, or by tumours of different descriptions growing from the villous coats, or by extraneous bodies lodged within the alimentary canal, and by pus lodged within the cel- lular coat, there are two kinds of stricture, in which all the coats are more or less affected, thickened, and indurated. The first may be called the inflammatory; .the second, the -cartilaginous, or scirrhous stricture. The first is met with at all periods of life ; is often the im- mediate consequence of acrid substances being swallowed, of concretions, of dysentery, and of external violence; and it ap- pears in a short time after the violence has been inflicted. We meet with strictures of this description in the urethra, after repeated attacks of gonorrhoea, and in the biliary ducts, from the irritation of gall-stones. Upon dissection, we observe a thickening of all the coats, es- pecially of the muscular coats, at the seat of the stricture; an effusion of coagulable lymph between them: the bloodves- sels at the seat of the stricture, which were much enlarged and distended by blood, form a net-work upon it; and there is also a quantity of turbid serum effused into the cavity of the abdomen, when the disease is seated in the intestines. The second, or scirrhous stricture, is of slow growth; ap- pears only in persons who are far advanced in life, of a sal- low complexion, and who are disposed to cancer; or in those whose constitutions have been much impaired : upon dis- section, we meet with a constriction, of an inch in length, of a cartilaginous consistence, and in which there is no appear- ance of the coats of the alimentary canal; all of these having been absorbed, and cartilaginous matter deposited in their stead. This species of constriction generally terminates in the cancerous ulceration. It is very easy to discover the seat of the stricture; for that part of the alimentary canal which is above the stricture is much enlarged ; whereas that beneath it is much contracted ; and by tracing either of the