ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 538 dix vermiformis, through which the intestinum jejunum had passed. On account of an irregular contraction, one part of the in- testine sometimes gents within another; and on account of the very unequal diameter of the smaller and larger intestines, it not unfrequently happens, that the smaller intestine passes within the beginning of the larger intestine, constituting the disease called Intus-susceptio. The intestine generally passes into that beneath it, but sometimes in the reverse direction. This disease is most frequent during infancy ; and the in- cluded portion may, in most instances, be readily disengaged, or dissected, there being no unnatural thickening and inflam- mation, and but a slight diminution in the calibre of the in- testinal canal; but in the adult, the disease assumes a more formidable aspect; the displaced intestine is firmly fixed in its unnatural situation in consequence of inflammation, swelling, and the accretion of parts. The intus-suscepted portion has sometimes been discharged by stool, yet life has been continued, though eight or ten inches of the intestine had been lost. The stricture had strangulated the portion of intestine that had been discharged, and had occasioned a mortification in the upper part of the intus-suscepted portion ; whilst, by ex- citing adhesive inflammation at the part, it had produced ad- hesion of the superior with the inferior portion, and, conse- quently, a continuity of canal. Of the Mesentery. This is the medium by which the smaller intestines are fix- ed to the body. It is a flat and broad membrane, composed of two layers of peritonaeum, between which, the arteries, veins, nerves, and lacteal glands and lacteal vessels, and a small proportion of fat, are placed. This connecting mem- brane is expanded somewhat like a fan, being broader before than at its connection with the vertebrae, and is so much so, as to be connected with the whole of the jejunum and ileum, which always present a concave surface to it, and from being of great extent, it forms a number of plaits.