ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 54 ing cartilage; and the same takes place in the knee-pan, and some of the other bones. The above opinion gains weight, on considering in what manner the medullary canal increases in diameter. In many instances of preternatural ossification, the perios- teum can have no share in that process. I have had occa- sion to meet with several instances in which a considerable part of the medullary matter of the brain has been converted into bone; and with one case, where the greater part of the muscular flesh of the heart had undergone a similar change. I have also met with three cases, where apart of the substance of the placenta has been reduced to a state of bone. Upon the whole, to me it seems probable, that the arteries of the periosteum, and also those of the substance of the bone, form bone. The power of the vessels of the periosteum is ma- nifest, and also that of the vessels of the bone, and especially during the growth of bones. In young animals, the medul- lary canal is very small; an absorption takes place internally, while there is a deposition externally from the vessels of the bone, which bears a certain proportion to the absorption : thus the bones increase in bulk. Different theories have been published respecting the cause which determines the vessels of the periosteum, or of the bone itself, to begin and carry on the process of ossification. Some have imputed it to the effect of pressure. The induration of bones is accelerated by their being exposed, more than any other parts, to the pressure of the great weights they support, to the violent contraction of the muscles fixed to them, and to the force of the parts they contain, which endeavour to make way for their own further growth. By all this pressing force, the solid fibres and ves- sels of bones are thrust closer ; and such particles of the fluids conveyed in these vessels, as are fit to be united to the fibres, are sooner and more firmly incorporated with them, while the remaining fluids are forcibly driven out by the veins, to be mix- ed with the mass of blood. In consequence of this, the vessels gradually diminish as the bones harden. From which, again, we can understand one reason, why the bones of young animals