ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 284 ligament, that the body might be supported by a firm perpen- dicular column. When the joint is a little bent, the posterior ligament is relaxed ; therefore this bone may be moved a little to either side, which is done by the motion of the external cavity backwards and forwards, the internal serving as a sort of axis *. Seeing, then, one part of the cross ligament is si- tuated perpendiculai'ly, and the posterior part is stretched obliquely from the internal condyle of the thigh outwards, that posterior part of the cross ligament prevents the leg from being turned at all inwards; but the lateral ligaments of this joint, which can yield little, prevent the leg from turning out- wards to a considerable degree. This rotation of the leg outwards, is of great use to us in crossing our legs, and turning our feet outwards ; but this mo- tion is limited, lest the bone should be dislocated. During the performance of these several movements, the part of the tibia that moves immediately on the condyles is only so much as is within the cartilaginous rings, which, being thicker ex- ternally, make the cavities of the tibia more horizontal, by raising their external side where the surface of the tibia slants downwards. By this means, the motions of this joint are more equal and steady. These cartilages change their places a little; they form a kind of moveable socket for the condyles of the thigh-bone, and likewise contribute to make the motions quicker and more extensive. Excepting in cases of extreme debility, luxations of the knee-joint are very rare, on account of the very large surface of the bones forming the joint of the knee, and the many strong ligaments connecting them. In the hospital of this city, I had lately occasion to see an instance of this luxation, which had been occasioned by external violence. The liga- ments of the knee were ruptured, and the tibia and fibula were dislocated outwards. The dislocation was removed, and the patient got well in a few weeks. • Winslow, Exposition Anatomique du corps humain, Traite des Os secs, sect. 976.