586 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. these experiments, it is evident, that the matter of this calcu- lus is of a peculiar nature : in some respects, it is similar to spermaceti, and in some to the saponaceous matter formed from muscular flesh ; but it is not perfectly identical with ei- ther of these. It differs from spermaceti in being less fusible, for spermaceti melts in boiling .water in being more soluble in alcohol, and by the change which it undergoes with nitric acid, and which spermaceti is exempted from. It differs from the saponaceous matter in being less fusible, and less soluble in alcohol, and in the peculiar change that nitric acid effects, and which the saponaceous matter does not suffer, as I was well able to ascertain, on a specimen which I wras furnished with through the kindness of Dr Hope, and Avho informed me that he received it immediately from Dr Gibps. The calcu- lus is much more like adipocire ; that substance first found by Fourcroy in biliary calculi, and described by him ; and the present, indeed, may be considered a perfectly pure example of this species. No. 2.—This conci'etion w'as found in the gall-bladder of an ox. It appeared of a circular form, and composed of concen- tric layers, that readily separated from each other. Exter- nally, it was smooth, slightly shining, of a dark chocolate co- lour ; its fracture was slightly conchoidal, and it was very brittle and friable: internally, the layers wrere of different shades of colour, and all lighter than the external. It ex- cited, in a slight degree, the peculiar sweetish bitter taste,of bile; and after it had been digested in water, in the state of powder, it emitted a slight odour of musk. Its specific gravi- ty was found to be 1170. When heated in a platinum spoon before the blowpipe, its volume increased, it burned with a slight flame, and bad the smell peculiar to vegetable matter in combustion ; the fixed residue, of a reddish-white colour, re- tained the form of the swollen mass, but, by a strong heat, its bulk was reduced ; and when thus heated, it phosphoresced with a brilliant white light, like that produced by phosphate of lime, that has been combined with animal matter when si- milarly treated; 1 grain of the calculus afforded -j^th grain