283 FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. the ground; in consequence of which, the ligamentous sub- stance which had united the pieces of the broken knee-pan was torn. He did not put on any bandage, but merely con- fined himself to bed for a few days, during which the broken pieces of the knee were again united, and are now at the dis- tance of about inches from each other. When he bends his knee, which gives him pain, there is a distinct crack- ling noise to be heard.'” He distinctly affirms, that his knee is now as strong1 as that of the other limb• He can readily walk up and down hill, or down stairs ; and I saw him hop to a considerable distance without any uneasiness or inconvenience. It is certainly remarkable, that the ligamentous membrane which had joined the broken pieces of the bone, had given way, and also that the knee should have been stronger after the fracture, though the fractured pieces of the knee-pan are now distant from each other about 2^ inches. At the ordinary time of birth, the rotula is entirely cartila- ginous. From this circumstance, combined with the greater narrowness of the pelvis, the greater shortness of the necks of the thigh-bones, the want of solidity in the foot, arising from some of the bones which compose it being in a state of carti- lage, the greater proportional bulk and weight of the head, and the weakness of the extensor muscles, it is evident that an infant cannot maintain its body in the erect posture. Of the Movements of the Knee. The principal motions are Flexion and Extension. In the former of these, the leg may be brought to a very acute angle with the thigh, by the condyles of the thigh-bones being round and made smooth far backwards. In performing this, the rotula is pulled down by the tibia. When the leg is to be extended, the rotula is drawn upwards, and consequently the tibia forwards, by the extensor muscles ; which, by means of the protuberant joint, and of this thick bone, with its liga- ment, have in effect the chord, with which they act, fixed to the tibia at a considerable angle, and therefore act with advan- tage ; but they are restrained from pulling the leg farther than to a straight line with the thigh, by the posterior crucial