232 • ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY". which is of a triangular form, and which seems to me to have been occasioned by external pressure. There is also a bul- ging out of the squamolis portions of the temporal bones, especially over the mastoid processes of the temporal bones; and also a slight bulging out of the temporal fossae of the frontal bone. The distance between the mastoid processes is equal to 44 inches. The bones of the face are not like those of the Negro ; they are not prominent and narrow, and not much impressed by the muscles: the ossa maxillaria su- penora over the antra maxillaria are remarkably concave, and the sockets for the teeth are very small. Instead of a broad ring around the orbits, as in the skull of the New Hollander and Negro, there is merely a sharp ridge of bone. The breadth between the orbits is considerable; it is equal to 14th of an inch ; and the ossa nasi, at their juncture with the os frontis, are very flat, as also the surface of the os fronds, with which they are in contaot. The zygomatic processes of the cheek-bones are long and slender, and not much elevated. The peculiar form of this skull seems to me to have been the result of pressure applied artificially : Thus the occipital bone had been flattened, and also the fron- tal bone; and, to compensate for the loss of space before and behind, the parietal bones had been forced outwards, where- by the distance between these bones was considerably aug- mented, and rendered greater than the distance from the fore to the back part of the skull, or between the frontal and occi- pital bones: hence, in this skull, \k\e. usual proportional dis- tances of the skull are reversed. I have included in this class the natives of Ceylon, concern- ing whom I have received much important information from my friend Dr John Davy, who resided for four years in that island, and has published a very interesting account ol it, which is embellished with an engraving of a skull of a native. He has informed me, that he could not perceive any remark- able difference in the form of the head from tint oi the Euro- pean ; he had heard it alleged that the skull is longer than that of the European, but he is not persuaded that it is so. Iri Table If., the reader will find the measurements of