216 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. foramen magnum ossis occipitis was unusually small, and the distance between the foreparts of the condyloid processes is less than usual. The forehead is large, and is not arched at its summit. The orbits are larger than in the European skull; the nasal cavity is rather narrower ; the superior maxil- lary bones over the alveolar processes are remarkably con- cave ; and, therefore, the antra maxillaria must have been smaller than common. The teeth in this specimen are larger than in any of the other Eskimaux skulls. When these skulls are examined in profile, they appear very full behind, and especially that from Iglulick ; and there is an evident depression on each side of the sagittal suture. The centres of ossification of the parietal bones, however, are prominent, and the distance between these is equal to 5§ inches. The temporal fossae are not very conspicuous. The zygomatic arch is rather higher than in the European skull, but not so much so as in the Negro. The facial line inclines obliquely forwards in that found at Iglulick, and in the skull in the museum of Natural History, but in all the others it deviates but little from a vertical line. In two of the skulls given to me by Mr Edwards, there are additional sutures, passing transversely across the occi- pital bone, but not at the same place; and the occipital bone in the skull from Winter Island is very narrow. This skull is by far the narrowest of the specimens, measuring only between the original centres of ossification of the parietal bones 5 inches; but the distance between the root of the nose, and the most prominent part of the os occipitis, is equal to 7 2 inches. After having examined these skulls, I begged the favour of my friend and pupil Mr Edwards, to draw out a short account of the Eskimaux, with which request he most politely complied. “ The Eskimaux of Melville Peninsula, bear a strong general resemblance to their kindred tribes, who in- habit the shores of Hudson’s and Davis’ Straits. The di- versity of features among the former was however much