570 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. There are some of the lymphatic vessels of the liver which pass backwards and upwards, and terminate on the right side in the large lymphatic trunk, which goes into the right sub- clavian vein, near to its junction with the internal jugular vein. It may be further observed, that the neighbouring lym- phatic vessels of the liver have their valves disposed in con- trary directions; for in the concave part of the liver, there are many lymphatics which pass from the anterior edge of the liver backwards and downwards, along its concave sur- face to the thoracic duct, but in the convex surface the flow is upwards and backwards. Of the Biliary Ducts. The biliary ducts take their origin from the extremities of the vena portarum, in the substance of those small bodies cal- led the Acini of the Liver. They join together, become gra- dually larger, accompany the branches of the hepatic artery and veins, so as at length to form two large trunks, which, by their union, form the trunk of the hepatic duct. The hepatic duct, which is about the size of a common writing quill, and of a cylindrical form, passes downwards be- tween the layers of the smaller omentum, enveloped in fat and cellular membrane, to the right of the vena porta?. The trunk of the hepatic dcct is rather larger than the duct from the gall-bladder, with which it unites at an acute angle, forming the ductus communis choledochus, which is larger than the hepatic or cystic ducts. The cystic duct has a corrugated appearance. There are from fourteen to eighteen transverse folds within the cystic duct, which are somewhat different as to breadth, and are dis- posed in a spiral direction. The same kind of structure may be observed in the ductus communis choledochus. In a few cases, the pancreatic duct joins with the common duct. The common duct descends at the posterior and left side of the first turn of the duodenum. As it approaches that intestine, covered by the head of the pancreas, it passes with a consi- derable degree of obliquity, for the space of about an inch,