495 OF THE TEETH. obtuse, because it is not pushed back by the teeth ; and the condyle becomes lower in respect to the coronoid process: hence the anterior part of the under jaw is carried so far forward, and does not meet the upper jaw, excepting at the back of the mouth, where the greatest force can be employed during mastication. SECTION II. OF THE SOFT PARTS OF THE MOUTH, AND ITS APPENDAGES. In a former part of this work, the structure of the upper and under jaws, which form the bony part of the cavity of the mouth, has been explained; and therefore we now proceed to the description of the softer parts, namely, that of the Lips and Cheeks, which form the fore-part of the mouth and its sides, and the other parts contained within the mouth. Connected with the mouth, there are muscles for perform- ing the compound motion of the lower jaw; there are glands which secrete mucus and the saliva; and, at the back-part of the mouth, there is a moveable muscular membranaceous arch, which assists in guiding the bolus of food into its pas- sage towards the stomach, and opposes its return through the nostrils. Within the mouth, there is the tongue, an instrument of speech, the organ of taste, and which also assists in degluti- tion. A musculo-membranous sac communicates with the posterior part of the mouth, which serves the double office of giving passage to the air into the lungs, and of giving passage to the prepared aliment, before it reaches the gullet; and, at the top of the windpipe, there are muscles which moderate the air in its passage to the lungs, producing different sounds. Such being the varied purposes of the parts of the mouth, we should at first sight suppose, that the functions of these could not be performed without interfering with each other; and yet there is only one instance of interference, viz. in suck- ing and breathing; and hence the necessity of a passage for air through the nostrils into the lungs, whilst the lips are closely applied to the nipple.