590 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. to each it imparted a fine green colour, but appeared very lit- tle, if at all, diminished in bulk. It was rfext boiled in water; the water acquired neither colour nor taste; and no solution was effected. Heated in muriatic acid, no apparent change was produced; and the acid was rendered only a little browner in colour. Sulphuric acid, poured on it, after the preceding had been removed, and the substance washed with water, had no immediate effect, but when heat was applied, the acid be- came of a dark colour, and thick consistence, and sulphureous acid gas was evolved. Some of the powder, digested in a hot solution of potash, was only partially dissolved, the black mat- ter seemingly remaining unaffected. Thus, in a few particu- lars, this substance differs from the matter contained in the biliary calculi of the ox just described:—besides the dif- ference of colour, the black matter swells more when heated, and leaves less earthy matter; has a different taste and smell, and is very slightly acted on by concentrated sulphuric acid without the assistance of heat, or by muriatic acid even boil- ing, or by a strong solution of potash. As to the composition of these calculi, they may be said to consist of a little adipo- cire, chiefly existing in the central part; and of this black matter, the exact nature of which, farther experiments are re- quired to determine. I shall now proceed to the calculi, into the composition of which a greater number of ingredients is concerned ; and I shall arrange them in the order in which they -were examined. No. 5.—These calculi were very numerous, no less, I was in- formed by Dr Monro, than 1500 ; and they were all found in the same gall-bladder. The appearance of all was similar, but they varied much in size; most of them were very small, and none so large as a hazle-nut; all of them were polygonal, and several had six or eight sides, and approached, in form, to the regular trihedral or tetrahedral pyramid: externally, the colour of some was white, or greyish white ; their lustre was pearly, and their appearance and texture micaceous; they had a greasy feel, and in this respect, and in others, resem- bled the pure adipocire, already described ; and they were