OF swallowing. 511 Between the coats of the gullet, there are a number of mu- cous glands, the ducts of which open. Upon the surface of the innermost coat, these are most conspicuous at the junction of the o-ullet with the stomach. © In the class Amphibia, a liquor, which possesses a solvent power upon animal substances, is secreted from the gullet. I had occasion to open the gullet of a large snake, within the gullet of which I found the body of a frog half dissolved. The mucous membrane of the gullet is lined by the cuti- cle, which forms at the cardiac orifices of the stomach a num- ber of denticulated folds, which I discovered, and represented bv a plate in my thesis De Dysphagia. The muscular contraction of the gullet is not under the do- minion of the will. Of Siv allowing. When the bolus of food has been masticated, and mixed with the saliva, it is put upon the point of the tongue, which is elevated ; and by the stylo-glossi, mylo-hyoidei, genio-hyoi- dei and digastric muscles, the pharynx is elevated, and at the same time expanded, in order to receive the bolus of food. By the retraction of the tongue, the bolus of food is pressed into the pharynx. The velum pendulum is raised by its le- vator muscles, by which the passage into the nostrils is shut. The pushing the tongue backwards has the effect of press- ing down the epiglottis, and of thereby shutting the passage into the windpipe, to which the elevation of the larynx, which, from its connection with the pharynx, must be raised along with it, essentially contributes. Indeed, the elevation of the larynx is sufficient to shut the epiglottis, as may be seen in the dead body, by fixing the tongue to the palate. Thus, the bolus of food passes into the pharynx ; and by the successive contraction of the muscular oblique fibres of the parietes of that organ and of the gullet, it is propelled into the stomach. That it does not descend into the stomach on account of its weight, is obvious, from our being able to swal- low solids, or even fluids, with the body inverted ; from a spasm or palsy of the pharynx and gullet impeding dcglu-