A FEW OF THE WORKS FOR PRACTITIONERS AND STUDENTS PUBLISHED BY BMLLIERE, TINDALL, & COX, H-ant's Science and Practice of Surgery. By F. J. Gant, F.B.C.S,, rresidcnt of the Jlcdical fSociety of London, Senior Surgeon to the Roj'al Fi*ec IIosi")ital. With Chapters on Special Subjects by Drs. RocT. BAKNiis, MoiiELL, JLk'kenzie, JIahomed, Purvus, Messrs. \V. Adams, P.U.C.S., Hv. Power, F.Il.C S., C. S. Tomks, F.fl.S., Sir Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. New Fdition in 2 vols., 31s. 6d., entirely rewritten and enlarged, with nearly lOUO Original Illustrations. " May be safely recommended to students."—Bi'ifis/t Medical Jonrnal. "We shall be much surprised if it does not become one of the most popular surgical text-books in the I-;ngUsh language."—Medical Pf^^. "A very complete and trustworthy guide to practice."—iL dirid Timat. " One of the best, if not llic best, of surgical text-books."—S/ci/tHAs' Journal. "A sound and complete exposition of Modern Surgery, combining the merits of a Text-book with the advantages of a system."—/niZi'a/i Medical Gazette. Sext Book of Operative Surg'ery. From the French of Professors Claude Bernard and Hjette. Illustrated with eighty-eight hand-coloured plates. Edited and re-written by Arthur Teehern Norton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. Price 20s. plain, hand- coloured, 50s. Folitzer's Text Book of Attral Stirg-ery, inohiding the Anatomy and Physiology of the Orgaii of Hearing: the causes, symptoms, and treatment of ear diseases. Authorised translation by Dr. PATrEES,ON Cassells. Price £1 Is. (Skortli/.) He-Kt Book of Anatomical Plates, designed under the direction of Pro- fessor Masse, with descriptive Text. By E. Bellamy, F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy, Government Science and Art Department, Lecturer in Anatomy and Operative Surgery, Charing Cross Hospital. 2nd Edition, plain, 21s., hand-coloured, 42s. " With these plates, the Student will be able to read up his anatomy almost as readily as with a recent dissection before him.."—Students' Journal. Bssentials of Anatomy. Designed as a Text-book for Students, and as a book of easy reference for Practitionei's on a new and more easily eompre- hcnsible basis. By W. Darung, M.D., F.R.C.S. Eng., Professor of Anatomy in the University of New York, and Ambrose Ranney, A.M., M.D., Adjunct Professor. Price 12s. Gd. " The methods of memorising are peculiar to the authors, and are the results of long experience in the teaching of students. ... Of much value to the st\ident and i^ractitioner."—Xeir Yorl: Mi dical Record. Osteology for Students, with Atlas of Plates. By Arthur T. Norton, F.R.C.S,, Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. 2nd E^litinn in one vol. 7s. 6d., two vols. Ss. (id. " The handiest and most complete hand-book of Osteology."—Xanccf. EEanual for the Physiolog-ical Laboratory. By Vincent Harris, M.D. Loud., Demonstrator of Pliysiology at St. Bartholomew's Hospital; and D'Arcy Power, B.A. Oxon., Assistant-Demonstrator. Price 3s. 6d. "A book that should be in every student's hands."—Medical Press. A Guide to tlie Examinations at the College of Surgeons of England for the Diplomas of Membar and Fellow, ■with the Examination Papers from 1869 to 18S0. By Frederick J. Gant, F.R.C.S., Piesident of the Medical Society of London, Senior Surgeon to the Royal I'ree Hospital. 4th and Enlarged Edition, price 4s. Od. The Pocket Gray; or. Anatomist's Vude Mecum. Compiled especially for Students, from the Works of Gray, Ellis, Quain, Heath, and Leonard. I'rice 2s. Od. Anatomography ; or. Graphic Anatomy. By W. Daulikg, M.D., F.R.C.S., Eng. I'l-ice Is. Ehe Student's Case Book : Practical Instructions, and all the Necessary Iii- fonuation f<_tr Clinicil Work and Systematic Case-taking, with Ruled Sheets for recording particulars of cases as seen. By George Brown, M.R.C.S. 2ud l-:dition, enlarged. Is. Materia Medica and Pharmacy: For the use of Medical and Pharma- ceutical Students preparing for Examination. By W. Handsel Griffiths, Ph.D., P.C.S., L.R.C.P. Edin., etc. Edited by George F. Duffey, M.D. Dub., Fellow and Examiner K.Q.C.P., Examiner in Materia Medica, Queen's Uni- versity of Ireland, Lecturer on Materia Jledlca in the Carmicliael College of Medicine, etc. Svo., jjp. 809, with numerous Tables, 9s. " A standard text-book on Materia Medica."—Edin. 3Sed.. Joiirn. " Conveys a large amount of reliable information in a clear and attractive forai. —Babtiii Journed of dL diral .sw'- nre. A Key to Organic ESateria Medica. By .John JIuter, Ph.D., M.A., F.C.S., President of the Society of I'ublic Analj'sts. 3rd Edition, 123. Gd. An Introduction to Analytical Chemistry for Laboratory Use. By the same Author. 7s. Ud. : also An lutrodtiotion to Pharmacetitical and XsHedioal Chemistry, Theo- retical and Practical. Vi'ith Analytical Tables and copious Index. Sam^ Author. 10s. Gd. An Introduction to Practical Histology. By George Tihn, M.D. Crown Svo., price 5s. " No more valuable Text-book for the Student will be found, nor one contain- ing a gi-eater amount of useful information in the most convenient f urm."—Medical Press. BSodern Medic lil Therapeutics. A compendium of recent Formula and Specitic Thur.ipuutical directions, from the practice of eminent contempoi-ary Phv.sicians, EnL,dish, American, and Foreign. Edited by G. H. Naphevs, A.M., Jl.U. 7th Edition, price ISs. Eflodern Siirgical therapeutics. By the same Author. 7th Edition price ISs. "No one who carefully peruses this work can feel surprised at the demani fi>r it; edition after edition sells with great rapidity."—Medical Press. " A summary of the best modes of treatment."—Practitioner. " 'file volume will supply what many practitioners are often anxious to xiossess for reference in the practice of their art."— Glasgow Jledical Journal. LONDON: BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, PARLS AND MADRID.