Muscles of Lower EKtremity—continued. 105 The attachments of these four Muscles taken together extend much nearer the Knee and Ankle on the outer than on the inner side of the Leg, thus :—■ S \ Flexor llongus PoUicis | ^'""^ upper and lower half respectively of the outer part of the post. surf, of the Fibula. 'H^ 1 Tibialis Posticus, — ,, ,, middle of the contiguous portions ,, ,, surfaces of Fibula and Tibia. O (Flexor Longus Digitorum,— ,, ,, ,, i ,, outer part ,, ,, surface of the Tibia. Solous is also attached to the Head of the Fibula, to the Oblique Line on the Tibia, and to a fibrous arch between them. Tibialis Posticus is attached ,, posterior surface of the Fibula iiiterual to the Oblique Line, to the post, surface of the Tibia external to the Vertical Line, and to the Interosseous Membrane. Flexor Longus Pollicis is attached to within 1 inch from the Ankle, the Tibialis Posticus to within S inches, and the Flexor Longus Digitorum to within 3 inches. Soleus, —by Tendo Achillis to lower half of posterior surface of Os Calois. The muscular portion of the Gastrocnemius ends in tendon a little below the middle of the Leg, that of the Soleus just above the Ankle. Tibialis Posticus, —Tuberosity of Scaphoid, giving special offsets to all the Bones of the Tarsus and Metatarsus, except the extremes, viz., the Astragalus and the first and last Metatarsal Bones. Flexor Longus Digitorum, —Last phalanges of four outer Toes, as in Hand, joining Flexor Aceessorius and perforating Flexor Brevis. .Flexor Longus Pollicis, — ,, phalanx „ Great Toe ,, ,, passing between Heads of Flexor Brevis Pollicis. In its course the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum crosses that of the Tibialis Posticus behind the Internal llallcolus, and that o£ the Flexor Longus Pollicis in the Sole of the Foot, sepai-ated from the former by Synovial Membi-ane, but receiving from the latter a special slip. The Tendons crossing behind the Ankle have the following relations to each other :— In the Groove behind the Internal Malleolus lies the Tibialis Posticus with the Flexor Longus Digitorum superficial to it. ,, ,, ,, External ,, ,, Peroneus Brevis ,, ,, Peroneus Longus ,, ,, ,, ,, on Tibia midway betw. Malleoli „ Flexor Longus Pollicis, grooving also the post, border of the Astragalus. The tendons behind each Malleolus have a common Synovial Sheath, the middle tendon has a special Sheath. For Diagrams of the attachment of Muscles to the Bones of the Leg, see pp. 38 and 00.