128 Arteries of Lower 'Extremity—contiimed. ANASTOMOSES ROUND THE HIP-JOINT. In front. The Deep Epigastric ,, Obturator Internalhj Externally Iliac) communicates with the Obturator (ofIliac) by its Pubic Branches. ,, ) „ „ ,, Int. Circumflex (of Deep Fern.) „ ,, Terminal ,, ,, ) „ ,, ,, Gluteal („ Int. Iliac) over Crest of Ilium. ,, ) ,, „ ,, Ext.Circumflex (,, DeepFem.) ,, Ant. Border ,, ,, *.The Deep Circumflex Iliac also joins directly some of the Ascending branches of the E.\;temal Circumflex. In this Anastomosis branches of the Internal and External Iliac and Profunda Femoris are associated. Behind (and at back of Thigh). The Deep Circumflex Iliac and the Ilio-lumbar form an arterial arch along the Crest of the Ilium. (of Ext. ( ,, Int. Deep Circumflex Iliac* (,, Ext. Gluteal („ Int. Deep Circumflex Iliac Ilio-lumbar Each Vessel Gluteal Sciatic Internal Circumflex three Perforating Branches & Terminal Branch of Profunda Sup. Branches of Popliteal Art. communicates in front with the Ascending Branches of the External Circumflex. heldnd ,, „ Dorsal Branches of the Lateral Sacral by its Lumbar Division. below ,, „ Gluteal, ( in front ,, „ Ascending Branches of the External Circumflex. < behind ,, „ Dorsal Branches of the Lateral Sacral by its Sacral Branch. ( below ,, „ Sciatic. {externalhj ,, „ AscendingBrauchesof Ext. Circumflex byits Anastomotic Branch. i. internally „ Sacral Branch of Gluteal by its Coccygeal Branch, f inferiorly ,, „ Internal Circumflex.* , ^-^f^^.^.r,?!,, \ Ascending Branches of Ext. Circumflex above Great Trochanter. \ >' j iransverse ,, ,, „ below „ ,, i internally ,, „ External Branch of the Obturator. ( inferiorly „ „ 1st Perforating Braucli of the Profunda. I above &, below „ one another. < externally ,, the Descending Branches of the External Circumflex. (internally ,, ,, corresponding Muscular Branches of the Profunda. i externally ,, „ lowest Descending Branches of the External Circumflex. < internally „ ,, Branches of the Anastomotica Magna. I above ,, ,, terminal Branch of the Profunda. ' The Sciatic joins al.so the External Terminal Branch of the Obturator. There are thus three parallel and longittidinal acts of Arteries on the Back of the Tliigh, one central and two lateral, anastomosing longitudinally and transversely. The External Circumflex suijpliea the whole of the outer side of the Thigh. The Hip-joint is supplied by/o((r Arteries a,bove by the Gluteal below ,, Int. Circumflex in front by the Obturator. behind ,, Sciatic.