Cutaneous Nerves on Anterior Aspect of Body—continued. 169 TO INNER SIDE OF KNEE OVER LEG OVER FOOT (on Dorsum) ( Patellar Branch of Internal Saphenous < Internal Saphenous (main trunk) ( Posterior Division of Internal Cutaneous ( Cutaneous of External Popliteal < Internal Saphenous (Musculo-cutaneous Terminal Branches of Anterior Tibial ,, „ „ Musculo-cutaneous. ,, Branch „ External Saphenous. (31) above Patella. (32; (33) below side by side. (34) on outer side above. (32) „ inner „ (35) iiitermediately below. (36) . Nute that the Sartoriiis (represented by parallel interrupted lines in the Diagi'am) is in relation with six Superficial Nerves, of which two (27 and 30) appear over its upper border, and two (2ii and 31) ji/crcr it, whilst the other tv:o (32 and 33) lie beneath it in the greater part of its length and emerge behind the posterior border of its tendon. The Nerves of the first pair alternate with those of the second. Note also that the two parts of the Internal Saphenous Nerve appear between the two parts of the Internal Cutaneous (31 and 32 between 30 and 33). Note in regard to the two Saphenous Nerves (Internal and External) that the Nerve which arises i,i front and hiijher up than the other (viz., the Internal) passes in front of the Internal Malleolus and ends hif/hcr up than the other on the Foot (viz., about the ball of the Great Toe), whereas the Nerve which arises behind and lower down (viz., the External) passes behind the E.xtern.d Malleolus and ends loiccr down on the Foot (viz. on the outer side of the Little Toe). Note in regard to the Nerves on the Dorsum of the Foot that the Branches of the Musculo-cutaneous alternate with those of the other Nerves, thus from within outwards there are first the Branch of the Musculo-cutaneous to the inner side of the Great Toe, next the Branch of the Anterior Tibial to the First Interosseous Space, then Branches of the Musculo-cutaneous to the other spaces, and lastly the Branch of the External Saphenous to the outer side of the Little Toe.