PEEFACE. This scries of Tables and Diagrams was originally devised by the Author for the use of Students in his own Classes at the University of Durham College of Medicine, to supplement his Lectures delivereil during the Winter Session of 1880—1881 by supplying notes of greater accuracy on important details than might else have been collected by the Students themselves. The work, therefore, makes no pretension to being a complete descriptive Manual of Anatomy ; to have made it so would have defeated the aim kept in view in its compilation, which is to afford, as its title expresses, a series of systematic and associated Schemata. For a considerable period the Author has found the system here adopted of the utmost service, alike to the Teacher whilst demonstrating and to the Student whilst learning. By its aid the multitude of otherwise unassociated anatomical facts are docketed, as it Avere, and arranged for immediate use when required; and details, classified in their proper relation, are more readily retained in the memory. When fully worked out, it renders the omission of any one of the facts under consideration impossible, thus also tending to remedy the fault most frequently deplored by Examiners in Anatomy. It is essential for the Reader to understand, that as the Tables and Diagrams cannot be used without reference to the full descriptions and representations given in the various Text-books of Anatomy, the former arc in no way intended to take the place of the latter; still less are they intended to supplant the only method of obtaining a real knowledge of Anatomy, viz., actual work in the Dissecting-Eoom. They are meant rather to supplement those means of study. Their presumed value lies in the clearer knoAvledge to be obtained by comparing them with the dissected part: the Diagram is thus imprinted, as it Avere, upon the Region, and a more lasting mental impression is carried away by the observer. The facts to be noted are first displayed on the dead subject, and then fixed in the memory by means of the corresponding Schema or Diagram.