Sacral TleKVLS—confmued. 1 Internal Popliteal Nerve. Course t S Accompanies the Popliteal Artery, lying first on its outer side, then over it, and lastly to its iiuier side. ' ■ (Is continuous at the lower part of the Popliteal Space with the Posterior Tibial Nerve. C 'JVircc Arliadar to Knee-joint, one with cacli Internal Articular Artery and one with tlic Azj'gos Articular Artery. Brandies (Nine) ■( Om Cutaneous, External Saphenous (see ' Nerves of Anterior and Posterior Aspeets of Body,' and Note on p. lljU). {I'ifc Muscular, to each Head of Gastrocnemius, to Soleus, to Plantaris and to Popliteus. External Popliteal Nerve. Course —Accompanies the tendon of the Biceps to end below Head of Fibula, between Bone and Peroneus Longus Muscle One Articular, with Superior External Articular Artery, sending a branch with the Inferior External Articular Artery. Two Cutaneous | """^ ^ ConimunToans Fibularis, to join External Saphenous at middle of back of Leg I une Articular, witii buperior External Articular Artery, senamga Drancn witn tne inieri f Three lateral | j,^^ Cutaneous -i ^^^^ twigs to the Skin over the outer head of the Gastrocnemius Branches f Articular llecurrent, accompanying Recurrent Articular Artery of Anterior Tibial. I r/irce terminals Musculo-cutaneous, to Peronei Muscles and Skin of front of Leg. ( Anterior TibLal Nerve. All the structures connected with the Popliteal Space may be grouped iu sots of three or multiples of three. I" Anterior Tibial Nerve. I Course —Passes under Extensor Longus Digitorum, and accompanies Ant. Tibial Artery in its lower §, lying to its outer side J C ^^uscnlar) In Leu, to the four muscles on the front of the Leg. Branches I Articular f ,, Eoot ,, Extensor Brevis Digitorum and Tarsal Joints. ( Cutaneous, to contiguous sides of 1st and 2nd Toes. Posterior Tibial Nerve. ri ., \ Accompanies Posterior Tibial Artery, lying first to its inner side, then over it and at ankle to its outer side. ooiM-se I dividing at upper border of Internal Annular Ligament into the External and Internal Plantar Nerves. Branches ' Muscular, to the three deep muscles on the back of the Leg. 1 Cutaneoui (Calcaneo-plantar), through the Internal Annular Ligament to Skin of Heel, etc.