Abdominal Aorta—conilmicd. 121 Inferior Mesen- teric IDasses downwards and a little to the left to enter the Pelvis, and gives off three Branches to the Larse Intestine as under :— ( To the Descending Colon,—the Left Colic Branch. Branches ] ,, ,, Sigmoid flexure, —,, Sigmoid „ (double or triple). ( ,, ,, Eectum, — ,, Superior HEemorrhoidal „ (double). The Left Colic and Sigmoid Brandies anastomose like the Cohc Branches of the Superior Mesenteric. ,, Superior Hsemorrhoidal gives its two terminal branches to the sides of the Rectum. J Each of the Branches of the Abdominal Aorta above-named is accompanied by a corresponding Plexus of Sympathetic Nerves. • ( The Corresponding Veins (except the Hepatic) are directly or Indirectly oonuocted with the Portal Vein (see Veins). SECOND GROUP. Three jiairs of Vessels arising from the sides of the Aorta, as under :—• Suprarenal, —Right and Left,—arise opposite Superior Mesenteric, and pass directly to the Suprarenal Capsules. (The Suprarenal Capsule aLso receives twigs from the Diaphragmatic and Renal Arteries). Renal, -Eight and Left,—arise i an inch below the Superior Mesenteric, the Right lower than the Left. f i or 5 terminal branches to the Kidney, ■r, , J fa small branch upwards to the Suprarenal Capsule, israncnes < ) ^ downwards „ Ureter. L (a few twigs outwards ,, fat behind the Kidney. i arise from the forepart of the Aorta -J inch below the Renal, Spermatic, Right 1 pass obliquely downwards to the Psoas Muscle, the Right Artery crossing the Vena Cava Inferior, and Left, Ovarian, Right and Left cross the L^reter, rest on the External Iliac Artery, and enter the Spermatic Cord in the Internal Abdominal Ring, \ become tortuous behind the Testis, supply it and join the Artery of the Vas Deferens. ( correspond to the Spermatic Arteries as far as the Margin of the Pelvis. •< They then turn down and in, into Broad Ligament, become tortuous, and enter attached margins of Ovaries. ( Each Artery gives twigs to the Fallopian Tube, to the Round Ligament, and to join the Uterine Artery. The Right Artery thus crosses a Vein, an Artery and a Duct,—the Left an Artery and a Duct only. J Each of the above Arteries is accompanied by the corresponding Plexus of Sympathetic Nerves. "( The Suprarenal and Renal Arteries have each a corresponding Vein ; the Spermatic have each two Venre Comites.