170 INTERCOSTAL NERVES, ETC. (Cutaneous Nerves of Trunk.) A. INTERCOSTAL NERVES OF WALL OF THORAX (Upper Sh-). The Intercostal Nerve lies at first between the Pleura and the External Intercostal Muscle, then ,, ,, Internal Intercostal Muscle ,, ,, „ ,, then „ ,, ,, „ ,, „ Pleura, lastly, piercing the Internal Intercostal and the Pectoralis Major close to the Sternum, it ends as an Anterior Cutaneous Nerve of the Thorax Halfway between the Spine and the Sternum it gives off through the External Intercostal Muscle a Lateral Cutaneous Nerve of the Thorax, which on becoming superficial, divides at once into an Anterior and a Posterior Branch. The Skin between the end of the Posterior Branch and the Siiine is supplied by the Posterior Primary Division of the corresponding Intervertebral Nerve. The First Iiilercosial has no Lateral Branch, the Second lias only the posterior division of one. B. THE INTERCOSTAL NERVES extending into the WALL OF THE ABDOMEN (Lower Six). These Nerves exactly resemble those higher up whilst they lie between the Eibs, and like them give off Lateral Cutaneous Branches which are similarly distributed. On reaching the Cartilages they pierce the Internal Intercostal, and thence run forward between the Internal Oblique and Transversalis till they reach the Piectus. This they perforate, and appear on the surface as Anterior Cutaneotis Nerves. The L iteral Branch of the last is single, see ' Nerves of Posterior Aspect of Body. 0. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC AND ILIO-INGUINAL NERVES. iwithin the Abdominal Cavity lies higher than the Ilio-inguinal Nerve and crosses the Quadratus Lumborum only, pierces \ Transversalis near the had- of the Iliac Crest, the Int. Oblique near the front of the Iliac Ci'est and ^ I the External Oblique above the Pubic Crest, turning iipivards under the Skin, half-way along Iliac Crest gives off the Lateral Branch through both Obliques to Gluteal Region. !within the Abdominal Cavity lies lower than the Ilio-hypogastric N. and crosses hoth the Quad. Lumbor. and Iliacus. pierces \ Transversalis near outer end of Poupart's Ligament, the Int. Oblique opposite middle of Ligament, and ^ \ the Ext. Oblique (through Ext. Abd. Ring) over the inner end of the Lig. turning downwards under Skin, near the Ant. Sup. Spine of Ilium gives a branch to join Ilio-hypogastric and lower down Branches to Int. Oblique. Note that the Ilio-hypogastric Nerve pierces the three broad Muscles at points in relation with the Iliac and Pubic Crests, whereas the Ilio-inguinal pierces them at points in relation with Poupart's Ligament.