Muscles of Lower Extremity—coiUimicd. 101 ADDUCTORS, iix—five acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. Triangular Surf, on Pubes, ant. to (Pectineus —0. ■KJtIi Adductor Brevis, — ^ Adductor Longus, — I Adductor Magnus, — I L Obturator Externus — Gracilis, — Ilio-pectineal Line -Ramus of Pubes -Body ,, „ below Crest Rami of Pubes and Ischium, and Tuber Ischii Inner ^ of m argin of Obturator Foramen „ ,, Obturator Membrane •—Rami of Pubes and Ischium \ Femur behind and below Small Trochanter. I Upper-iof linefromLiueaAsjicrato „ ,, —Line from „ ,, ,, —Linea Aspera (inner lip). —Interspace between upper divis. of Linea Aspera. —Digital Fossa on inner surface of Great Trochanter. 5 Tibia, for inch, behind upper part of Tendon of ( Sartorius. These Muscles are supplied by the Obturator Nerve. The first throe are the inner three of the six entering into the formation of Scarpa's Triangle. At their Origins the attachments of the Pectineus, Arid. Jlagnus and Quadratus Feraoris surround circumfercntially that of the Obtvn'ator Extenius, whilst those of the Add. Longus, Add. Brevis and Gracilis overlap along the margin of the Pubie Arch. At their Imertions the attachments of the Iliacus, Pectineus and Add, Brevis overlap. "'■ See Diagram and Description of Innominate Bone for this and succeeding Muscles, t ,1 Femur ,, ,, ,, ,, ROTATORS IN, threc- !Gluteus Medius Gluteus Minimus Tensor Vaginsa Fem, -two acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. Insertion —Oblique Line on external surface of Great Trochanter. Origin —Concave surface between Superior and Middle Curved Lines of Ilium and Gluteal Aponeurosis. ,, —Convex ,, Middle ,, Inferior ,, ,, ,, - Insertion —Rough facet on anterior surface of Great Trochanter. Origin —Outer lip of Iliac Crest for anterior two inches. Insertion—Ilio-tibial band of Fascia Lata three inches below and in front of Great Trochanter. These Muscles are supplied by the Superior Gluteal Nerve. ROTATORS OUT AND EXTENSORS, six—five acting ou the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee, I Orin'in \ ^^^^'^^^ three pieces of Sacrum, between anterior Sacral Foramina, Pyriformis \ >i n. .. . . . _ "S"'* I ^l)Qi,Q from mai'gin of Sacro-sciatic Foramen, and heIo>p from Sacro-sciatic Ligaments. Insertion—Post Facet on upper border of Great Trochanter, sejxirated from Capsule of Hip by Obt. Int. Tendon. Obturator Internus Oriijiii Insertion- Obturator Membrane and margin of Obturator Foramen, except above and in front. Pelvic Fascia, and inner surface of Body of Ischium ,, below „ behind. -Anterior Facet on upper border of Great Trochanter along with Gemelli. 14