102 Muscles of Lower "EKtremity—continued. Gemellus Superior, —Or/ijin Gemellus Inferior, — ,, Cluadratus Femoris,— ,, -Outer surface of Spine of Ischium - ,, border „ Tuber. ,, (upper part) InscrlioH—with. Obturator laternus. „ —Linea Quadrati. Gluteus Maximus Posterior J of Urest of Ilium and Bone below it. (Bone). I Aponeurosis of Multitidus Spinai {Aponeuronii). I Back of lowest piece of Sacrum and back of Coccyx {Bone). Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament (outer surface) (Ligament). nseiiion upper § of muscle and lowest fibres intermediate „ into Fascia Lata (Ilio-Tibial Band). ,, Lino leading from Great Trochanter to Linea Aspera. Relation of Muscles to the Hip-joint. The Muscles specially in relation with the Capsule of the Hip-joint are arranged as follows : Behind and below the Capsule—Obturator PJxternus Tendon. In front of ,, —Psoas and Iliacus, Above ,, —Obturator Internus Tendon with Gemelli. Above and behind ,, „ —Pyriformis Tendon separated from Capsule by Obturator Internus Tendon. Behind ,, ,, •—Quadratus ,, „ „ „ ObturatorExternus „ The Muscles lie in one turn of a spiral round the Capsule (see Diagram). Fasciculi are sent into the Capsule above and in front | the Kectus^(Reflectod Head) mtern^^^^^^ The remaining two Groups (the Fifth and Sixth) which act on the Hip, act also and chiefly on the Knee. The Fifth. Group consists of //;;-ce Muscles which supplement the Extensors of the Hip and are also Flexors of the Knee. ,, Sixth ,, „ one Muscle „ supplements ,, Flexors ,, „ ,, is „ an Extensor „ ,, In addition to these there arc one Flexor and three Extensors of the Knee only, and two Flexors of the Knee and Extensors of the Ankle. EXTENSORS OF HIP AND FLEXORS OF KNEE. Short Head, Linea Aspera (outer lip) Lomj ,, Zower&i;!«c')'facetonTuberIschii f Biceps, —Origin j Semi-membranosus,— - .Semi-teudinosus, — „ . Insertion Upper k outer -with Long Head of Biceps Fibula, outer side of Head by double tendon, in front and behind the Long Ext. Lateral Lig. Tibia, Groove on back of Internal Tuberosity. ( Internal Lateral Ligament of Knco. giving 3 offssts to ■< Posterior Ligament ,, ( Fascia over l^opliteus. Tibia, for ^ in. behind lower part of insertion of Sartoriua.