Muscles of the Upper Extremity—coniinued. 94 MUSCLES OP ELBOW. There axe four Muscles acting specially on the Elbow-joint, two. Flexors —Biceps and Brachialis Anticus, lying in front of the Joint, <wo, Extensors—Triceps „ Subanconeus „ behind ,, ,, Of these the Biceps and Triceps act also on the Shoulder, and are connected with the Ligaments 0/Shoulder-joint, the Brachialis Anticus &Subanconeus „ only ,, Elbow „ „ ,, its Ant. and Post. Ligaments. Biceps Origin Insertion i Long Head, round tendon, from upper margin of Glenoid Cavity, in connection with Glenoid Ligament, ■j Short ,, flattened ,, ,, apex of Coracoid Process ,, ,, „ Coraco-brachialis. ( a third ,, muscular, in connection with insertion of Coraco-brachialis (frequently). ( Tubercle of Radius, posterior part (separated from anterior part by a bursa). / Deep Fascia of Forearm, over Pronator Teres, by Bicipital or Semilunar Fascia. Triceps Brachialis Anticus Origin Insertion Long Head, flattened, from outer border of Scapula just below Glenoid Cavity for 1 inch, connected with Capsule. Outer ,, muscular „ post. surf, of Humerus above Musculo-spiral Groove, as high as insert.of Teres Minor. Inner ,, ,, „ ,, „ ,, below „ ,, ,, „ „ ,, „ Major. Olecranon Process of Ulna, posterior part of upper surface (separated from anterior part by a bursa). Deep Fascia of Forearm over Anconeus by a special aponeurosis. Origin —External and Liternal surfaces of Humerus (lower half), and Intermuscular Septa. Insertion—Coronoid Process, lower and inner part of under surface. It is closely connected with the A nterior Ligament of the Elbow-joint. Subanconeus Origin —The posterior surface of the Humerus above Olecranon Fossa. Insertion —Closely connected with the Posterior Ligament of the Elbow-joint. The Biceps and Brachialis Anticus are supplied by the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. ,, Triceps ,, Subanconeus ,, ,, „ „ spiral ,, The Brachialis Anticus also receives a branch from the „ ,, ,, Compare Origin and Insertion of Biceps and Triceps point by point.