0 Cceliac Axis, Gaatfic, Hepatic Abdominal Aorta—continued. —appears at upper border of Pancreas, runs forwanl for J inch, and divides into 3 branches :— —runs up & to the li'ft on to CEsophagus, & curving on itself runs down, & to right along upper border of Stomach. ( Course, —passes to right along upper border of Pancreas, then curves upwards to enter Transverse Fissure of Liver. I L Branches Pyloric, to upper border of Stomach, joins termination of Coronary Artery. Post. Pt/Ioric „ posterior surface ,, small end of Stomach. Oastro-duodenaV^ „ lower border of Stomach, and to Duodenum and Pancreas, joins branches of Splenic. Terminal Branches (2) to Liver Right, giving off Cystic Artery to Gall Bladder. Left ,, „ Spigelian ,, ,, Spigelian Lobe. For the relative position of the Structures in tlie Transverse Fiss\ire see ' Intercostal Arteries,' p. IIS. Subdivided into Right Gastro-epiploic and Superior Pancreatico-duodenal. Course, —runs directly to the left along the upper border of the Pancreas in a sinuous manner. Splenic Branohos ( Vasa Brevia, to the large end of the Stomach. < Left Gastro-epiploic „ ,, lower border „ „ ( Pancreatic (and Pancreatica Magna) ,, ,, left end „ Pancreas. Terminal Branches {'i ov 5) „ ,, Spleen. Thus the Brandies of the Hepatic correspond to tliose of the Gastric and Splenic together, except in the fact that the Branches of the Hepatic to the Pancreas and the lower border of the Stomach arise by a common trunk instead of as separate offsets. See also ' Arteries of Stomach and Pancreas.' Superior Mesen- ( appears at the lower boi-der of the Pancreas, runs down towards the Right Iliac Fossa, and teric Branches gives off six Branches or sets of Branches (3 to Small Intestine and 3 to Large Intestine) as under :— To 3rd part of Duodenum and right end of Pancreas,—Inferior Pancreatico-duodenal. ,, Jejunum and Ileum, —Intestinal Branches (12 to 15}. ,, lower end of ,, —Terminal Branch. ,, Ileo-crecal valve and Crecum, ,, Ascending Colon, ,, Transverse ,, -Ileo-colic -Right Colic -Middle „ The Inferior Pancreatico-duodenal joins the Superior from the Hepatic. ,, Intestinal and Terminal Branches join with one another to form before distribution 4 or 5 series of Arches. ,, three Ai'teries to the Colon ., 1 ,. 2