LUMBAR PLEXUS. 181 THE LUMBAR PLEXUS is formed by the union of the upper three Lumbar Nerves and is supplemented by part of the 12th Dorsal and part of the 4th Lumbar. The rcniaindor of the 4tli, together with the 5th, forms the Lumbo sacral Cord, which goes on to the Sacral Plexus. BKANCHES. Twigs to the Psoas from the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Nerves near their commencement. ■ From the 1st Nerve are given off the j i „ loop between 1st and 2nd is „ ,, Genito-Crural. ) „ ,, ,, 2nd and 3rd ,, „ ,, External Cutaneous. ^ \ Obturator and Accessory Obturator. ej:tre7nify of Plexus are „ „ | ^^.terior Crural. The Anterior Crural forms the continuaJion of the Plexus in the direct line, the other offsets forming hmnclies. Apart then from the direct continuation of the Plexus there are given oS six lateral Branches, two of which are accessory to the main continuation. Compare with the Saeral Plexus and Diagram B of the Brachial Plexus. At first the Nerves are contained in the substance of the Psoas Magnus. The Ilio-hypogastric and Ilio-inguinal emerge through oifier edge of Muscle near tlia top. ,, External Cutaneous emerges ,, ,, ,, ,, at the middle. ,, Anterior Crural ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, below. ,, Obturator and Accessory Obturator emerge ,, inner ,, ,, ,, ,, Genito-crural emerges ,, anterior swrince »ertr ?/(e ^ojj and lies throughout on that surface. See Diagram of ' Relations of Psoas Magnus,' p. 101. Note that tho/)-sf branch of the Plexus (Ilio-hypogastrio) emerges through the outer edge of the Psoas, the third (Genito-crural) through the anterior surface, and the//(/i (Obturator) through the inner edge. The other branches appear through the outer edge one abocc, one biJotr, and one intermediatelii. In their Course outwards the Nerves lie as follows : The Ilio-hypogastric on the Quadratus Lumb. only. The Ilio-inguinal first on the Quadratus, then on the Iliacus. „ External Cutaneous on the Iliacus only. „ Anterior Crural Ijetween the Iliacus and Psoas. [turator Int.). „ Genito-crural on the Psoas only. „ Obturator and Accessory Obturator to inner side of Psoas (over Ob- Kote that the Nerves lie on one Muscle and ou or between tu-o alternately. ( Ilio-bypOgastric and Ilio-inguinal, see ' Intercostal Nerves,' p. 170. For the Distribution oi the < Genito-crural* and External Cutaneous, „ 'Cutaneous Nerves of Body,'pp. 167 and 168. ( Anterior Crural and Obturator „ 'Anterior Crural Nerve,'p. 182. ■ The Genito-crural sends a special branch to the Cremasteric coTcring of the Cord through the Internal Abdominal Ring and another twig to the Femoral Artery. 24