OOOIPITO-AXOID LIGAMENTS. 52 Four in number, lying superposed in the Spinal Canal, over the posterior surface of the Odontoid Process. hdow to Body of Axis Post. Common, Occipito-axoid, Transverse, Odontoid, —broad, attached —cord-likc ,, —cruciform „ —triple ,, laterally „ Atlas beloiv „ Odontoid Process (lower border of posterior surface), (upper part „ „ ,, ). (to Tubercles on Lateral Masses ), by transverse part, („ root), ,, vertical „ („ apex), ,, central fasciculu?. („ sides of apex), ,, 2 lateral fasciculi. Above all four arc attached to the Basilar Process and the margin of the Foramen Magnum, the lateral Odon- toid bands being fixed to special depressions on the sides of the Foramen. The Transverse Ligament is separated from the facet on the posterior surface of the Odontoid Troccss by-a synovial mcrabnmc. It also aids in uniting the Atlas and Axis. VERTEBRO-COSTAL LIGAMENTS. , p., ,. , , Uiy its Head with the Bodies of two contiguous Dorsal Yertebne and the intermediate Intervertebral Disc. A iviD aiucmaccb | „ Tubercle „ „ extremity of the Transverse Process of the lower of the two Vertcbnu. In each joint it is retained by three Ligaments. LIGAMENTS UNITING HEADS OF RIBS AND VERTEBRiE. Stellate, * —triple, attached exter. to front of Head of Rib, and inter, to Intervertebral Disc and Bodies of contiguous Vertebrw. Interarticular, * —short ,, ,, „ ridge on „ „ ,, ,, „ ,, „ Capsular, —thin and loose, surrounding joint. LIGAMENTS UNITING RIBS AND TRANSVERSE PROCESSES OF VERTEBRiE. Ant.Costo-transverse—broad, strong,attached to upper border of Neck of Rib, and to lower border of Transverse Process above. Middle Posterior -.«hort „ posterior surface „ ,, non-articularpart „ Tubercle „ anterior surface apex adjacent. The Anterior Ligament is deficient in the case of the 1st Rib. The j\Iiddle and Posterior Ligaments are ,, ,, „ „ 11th ,, All three Ligaments ,, ,, ,, „ „ 12th ,, A Capsular Ligament is also described as surrounding the Joint. In the case of those Joints in which the Rib articulates with one Vertebra only, the Stellate Lkjamcni consists of but two parts (one connected with the articu- lating Vertebra, the other with the Vertebra above), and the Inle.rarticv.lar lijament is absent.