ARTERIES OF LOWER EXTREMITY. 125 FEMORAL ARTERY. ( Enters Thigh beneath mid-point of Poupart's Ligament, resting on the Psoas, the middle Muscle of Scarpa's Triangle. 1 Lies at first superficially beneath Integuments in Scarpa's Triangle, then deeply beneath Sartorius in Hunter's Canal. I Is enclosed at first \n Crural Sheath in Scarpa's Triangle, then is covered hy fibrous reflection in Hunter's Canal. Becomes continuous below with Popliteal Artery at opening in Adductor Magnus Muscle. Course, etc. Relation to Vessels, Nerves, and Mvscks ( The Profunda Artery is at first to its outer side, and next (at Apex of Triangle) beneath it, separated by Fern. & Prof. Veins. ~ " " ■ " and lastly (in Hunter's Canal) to [its outer side. Femoral Vein Ant. CruraliVfj-rc „ un. inner outer and gives branches round it, thus :— the Artery transversely above. longitudinally below. Nerve to Pectineus crosses beneath Int. Saphenous Nerve lies over Nerve to Vastus Internus ,, to outer side of Int. Cutaneous N. (post, div.) ,, ,, imicr ,, ,, The Obturator Nerve gives a branch to supply the Artery from its Superficial Division. { As compared with the Profunda Femoris its relations are as follows :—• I The Femoral rests successively on the Psoas, Pectineus, Adductor Brevis and Adductor Longus. \ The Profunda ,, ,, ,, Iliacus ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Magnus. The Femoral is separated from the Adductor Brevis by a little fat, and it may rest on the Adductor Magnus at its tei'minatioii; tlio lower- L most fibres of the Adductor Longus, however, are often blended with those of the Adductor Magnus. f Near the Base of Scarpa's Triangle the chief structures lie side by side from without inwards as follows : Iliacus Psoas Pectineus supporting Anterior Crural Nerve. supporting Femoral Vein supporting Profunda Artery, i supporting Femoral Artery. Crural Canal [i.e., inner side of Crural Sheath). At the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle the chief structures lie superposed from before backwards in the following order :— Femoral Artery, Femoral Vein, Profunda Vein, Profunda Artery. I At the upper part of Hunter's Canal the chief structures are from before backwards in the following order Sartorius- \ ^e^noral Artery and Vein \ t..„„„._. i Profunda Artery and Vein_ ( Internal saphenous Nerve In the last-named situation the Femoral Artery lies in a position as regards the Muscles similar to that of the Carotid in the Neck i.e., la the Anglo between two sets of Muscles covered by a third Muscle (see Diagram). -Adductor Longus- j C^ranXofoirurltor Nerve \ -^^'^^^'^^ ^^S^-