83 Muscles of the Back—continued. The THIKD GROUP (Rotators) consists of three double Muscles. \ Splenius Capitis ( Splenius Colli J Spinalis Colli ( Spinalis Dorsi I Semispinalis Colli - ( Semispinalis Dorsi- Origin upper six Dorsal Spines Lig. Nuchas as high as 3rd Cervical Spine —last two Cervical and first two Dorsal Spines — ,, ,, Dorsal ,, ,, ,, Lumbar „ \ lov/er three Cervical Articular Processes \ upper six Dorsal Transverse „ —from sixth to tenth Dorsal Transverse Processes Insertion Mastoid process. ' I Sup. curved line of Occipital Bone. S. Colli, upper three Cerv. Post. Trans. Proc. S. Cap. Spine of Axis. upper eight Dorsal Spines. from second to fifth Cervical Spines. upper four Dorsal and lower two Cervical Spines. The Semispinalis Dorsi is connected with four Transverse Processes and six Spines, tlie Somispinali.s Colli with six Transverse Processes and four Spines, Of these three Muscles,—the Splenius passes over the column of Extensors from Transverse Processes to Spines. ,, Spinalis „ parallel to ,, ,, „ ,, ,, Spines to Spines. ,, Semispinalis „ beneath ,, ,, ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Transverse Processes. The FOURTH GROUP (Intervertebral Muscles)—consists of six muscles or sets of muscles, of which the fibres pass between contiguous Vertebra;. Multifidus Spinse —Origin Rotators Dorsi (11) — I Post. Surf, of Sacrum, as low as 4th Vert. ) ,, Sup. Spine of Ilium. j ,, Sacro-iliac Ligaments, and ( Aponeurosis of Erector Spina;, I All the Lumbar Articular Processes, < ,, „ Dorsal Ti-ansverse ( Lower five Cervical Articular ,, -Lower 11 Dorsal Trans. Proc, one from each —Insertion Spines and Neural Arches of all the Vertebrse from the 2nd Cervical to the 3rd Sacral. Upper 11 Dorsal Lamince, one to each. Supraspinales —rudimentary, found upon Cervical Spinous Processes. Interspinales — ,, in Dorsal Region, thin and flat in Lumbar Region, double in Cervical Region. Intertransversales— ,, „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ ,, „ Extensor Coccygis—passing from last piece of Sacrum over back of Coccyx (often absent).