142 Arteries of the Upper Extremity—continued. ANASTOMOSES OVER THE SCAPtFLA. Suprascapular Artery, along Siiperior Border of Bone, ends on the Posterior Surface, giving Infrascapular Branch to Anierwr Surface Subscapular ,, ,, External „ ,, „ ,, Anterior „ „ Dorsalis ScapuliE „ Poderior „ Post. Scapular ,, ,, Internal „ ,, ,, both Surfaces ,, Branches equally to each ,, These Arteries communicate with each other on both surfaces, forming two sets of Anastomoses, one in the Muscles and the other on the Bone. BRACHIAL ARTERY. from the lower border of the Teres Major to a point half an inch below the bend of the Elbow. the surface line being drawn from mid-point between folds of Axilla externally to mid-point between Condyles of Humerus. is covered by the Integuments, etc., in its whole course, and is crossed just before termination by the Bicipital Fascia, lying first on the Triceps, lastly against the Biceps (Tendon), intermediately on the Coraco-brachialis and Brachialis Anticus. resting in the upper part of its course against Coraco-brachialis and Biceps, and in the last part in the space between Supinator Longus and Pronator Teres. to Veins (4) Two Ven;e Comites accompany it, the Basilic lies superficial to it, and the Median Basilic crosses it below. ( the Median Nerve lies in front of it in its upper part, and crossing it superficially lies on its inner side below, to ATej-yes (2) < ,, Musculo-sjiiral ,, ,, behind „ ,, ,, piercing the Triceps reajspears ,, outer ,, ,, ( " The Internal Cutaneous and Ulnar Nerves leave it close to its commencement. Branches {four)* ( Superior Profunda! arising near the commencement of the Artery accompanies the Museulo-spiral Nerve to Ext. Condyle of Humerus, j Inferior Profunda!' >> about the nuVWe ,, ,, ,, „ Ulnar „ Int. „ ,, J Nutrient ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, enters the Humerus near insertion of Coraco-brachialis. ( Anastomotict ,, yigav lower end ,, ,, (an inch above Condyle) passes down and in to Int. Condyle. * Tlie Structures lying round about the Elbow may be grouped in sets of two or four (pee ' Muscles of Elbow '). t For termination of these Branches see ' Anastomosis round Elbow-joint' (p. 114). Relation to Muscles, etc.