Muscles of the Upper Extremity—con^miwd 93 'The Sterno-mastoid raises the Clavicle directly (though slightly). The Trapezius raises the Acromion (directly by its upper fibres, indirectly by its lower fibres). Both Muscles, acting together (assisted by the Levator Anguli Scapula;) shrug the shoulder, that is, raise the whole shoulder-girdle directly. Both Muscles also act on the Head as well as on the Shoulder-girdle, and are supplied by a Cranial Nerve, the Spinal Accessory, and by special branches of the Cervical Plexus. The Subclavius directly depresses the Shoulder. ( by its upper fibres, turns the Acromion Process downwards and foncards. C The Serratus Magnus, acting ^ „ ,, lower ,, „ „ „ upwards ,, ,, I ( ,, all its ,, draws the Scapula directly forwards. J The Levator Auguli Scapuh-e is allied in action to the upper fibres of the Serratus Magnus. (It also raises the Superior Angle of the Scapula, thus indirectly depressing the Acromion.) The Ehomboids, drawing up and back the posterior border of the Scapula, indirectly depress the Shoulder ; acting with the Trapezius (lower fibres) they draw the Scapula directly harlcwards. Sterno-mastoid, —arising from the Occipital and Temporal Bones, is inserted into the inner end of Clavicle and the Sternum. Trapezius,* — „ „ „ Bone and Cerv. Dor. Spines „ ,, outer ,, ,, ,, theSpineof Scapula. * For full origins and insertions sec Muscles of Head and Back.^ Subclavius, —Origin —1st Costal Cartilage at junction with Rib. Insertion —under surface of Clavicle between markings for Ligs. ( Origin, by nine slips from upper eight Ribs—two slips being connected with the 2nd Rib. Serratus Magnus < l upper angle of Scapula (by fibres from Ist and 2nd Ribs). (insertion, „ </(rce parts, into ant. surface of ] post, border „ ,, ( ,, ,, ,, 2ud, 3rd and 4th ,, ). (lower angle „ ,, („ ,, „ 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th ,, ). Levator Anguli Scapulae and Rhomboids—see Muscles of Back. -The third group of Shoulder Muscles consists of three muscles, which, arising from the three fosste of the Scapula, and lying in close relation with the Shoulder-joint, act as Ligaments retaining the Head of the Humerus in its socket. Subscapularis, —Origin—Subscapular Fossa (inner f) and Fascia. Insertion—Small Tuberosity and bone below for 1 inch. Supraspinatus, — „ —Supraspinal ,, ( ,, „) „ „ —Great ,, " highest facet. Infraspinatus, — ,, —Infraspinal ,, ( „ „) „ „ — „ middle „ There are three Bursas in connection with these Muscles :— One under the Subscapularis ahcays communicating with the Joint. >> !) )i Infraspinatus sometimes ,, ,, ,, ,, over „ Supraspinatus never „ ., 13