Course Relation to Muscles, etc. Arteries of Lower Eidremity—contimied. 129 ANASTOMOSES ROUND THE KNEE-JOINT. The Arteries wliicli anastomose round the Knee-joint also supply it, thus :— ( The two Ext. Articular Branches of the Popliteal ramify one at the ujijxr, the other at the lorvev parts of the Joint externally. \ ,, two Int. Articular „ ,. ,, ,, ,, „ „ „ ,, ,, ,, internally. [ ,, Middle or Azygos Branch „ ,, enters the Joint at the Back fe«ir«%. iThe External Circumflex (by Descending Branches) supplies the outer side of the Joint and joins the External Articular Arteries. Anastomotica Maffna H'^y ^^^''^'''^'^S Branch) „ „ inner „ „ „ „ „ ,, Internal ,, " ( ( » Transverse Branch) communicates at the ttpper part of the Joint with the Sup. SaA Artie. Art<J, „ Recurrent Tibial ,, „ lower ,, „ ,, „ Inf. Artie. Arts. ANTERIOR and POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERIES. Anterior Tibial,—from inner side of Head of Fibula to mid-point between Malleoli. Posterior Tibial,— „ „ „ „ „ „ Internal Malleolus and Os Calcis. Anterior Tibial,—is continuous with the Dorsal Artery of the Foot under the Anterior Annular Ligament. Posterior Tibial,—divides into the Plantar Arteries at the to;wr* border of ,, Internal „ „ ( Anterior Tibial in its upper two-thirds lies cZccp?)/on the Interosseous Membrane & in its lower third lies on the Tibia super/, I Posterior Tibial ,, ,, ,, „ ,, between Superf. & Deep Muscles ,, lowest part ,, ,, ,, „ I between Tibialis Anticus and Ext. Long. Digitorum for an inch or two at first, then ■ Anterior Tibial lies < ,, ,, „ ,, Prop. Pollicis ,, the greater part of its course, and lastly I ( ,, Ext. Long. Digit. ,, ,, „ „ (tendons),, an inch or two at the lower end. Posterior Tibial \ '^^ Tibialis Posticus first, then on Flex. Long. Digit., and lastly on Tibia for an inch or two. " ( beneath Gastroc. & Soleus first, „ beneath Integuments to inner side of Tendo Achillis. and Nerves —The Anterior and Posterior Tibial Nerves lie to the outer side of the corresponding Arteries. * The Posterior Tibial Nerve diTidea at the upper border of the Internal Lateral Ligament, just as the main nerve to the back of the Limb (the Sciatic) divide e liighe than the m.ain Artery (the Popliteal). Branches of Anterior Tibial. ( Recurrent to Knee-joint, above, piercing the fibres of the Tibialis Anticua. < Malleolar (Ext. and Int.) to'Ankle, beloiv, running transversely and joining Arteries on corresponding sides of Foot. ( Muscular and Cutaneous twigs, intermediately, the largest accompanying the Musculo-cutaneous Nerve. Branches of Posterior Tibial. 1 Muscular, to Muscles on inner side and f Cutaneous to Skin of lower half of back of Leg. < Nutrient (largest in the Body), to Tibia. } Articular twigs to Ankle-joint. ( Communicating with Peroneal, two inches above the Ankle. ( Peroneal, (collateral,) to outer side of back of Leg (see p. 130).