SOLAR PLEXUS. 163 The Central shaded part of the Diagram represents the Right and Left Semilunar Ganglia with the intervening Solar Plexus, and the small circle in the centre represents the Cceliac Plexus. The radiating lines represent the main offsets from the central Plexuses, the other lines the communications of those oflfsets ; the interrupted lines show where branches are wanting ; the dotted lines mark out the special nerves joining the Plexus. It will be noticed that the main offsets correspond to lines drawn so as to bisect the sides and angles of an imaginary square described about the figure representing the Plexus, and that the chief communications may be shown by ti'iangles erected upon the sides and over the angles of such a square. The lines converging on the Hepatic, Splenic and Renal lines are sides of the triangles erected on the sides of the squ;n-e. BRANCHES. All the radiatbuj branches, except the Hepatic, join one or other of the Semilunar Ganglia. The Cceliac_ Plexus gives ofiF the Coronary, Splenic, Hepatic and part of the Superior Mesenteric Plexuses. The Coronary has no other origin. The Splenic joins only the Left Semilunar Ganglion, being itself joined by the Right Vagus. The Superior Mesenteric receives a root from the left side of the Solar Plexus. The Hepatic receiver from the Diaphragmatic and Rt. Suprarenal, and gives to the Right Suprarenal. The Kight Suprarenal „ „ „ Rt. Renal, Hepatic and Diaphrag. „ „ ,, Right Renal and Hepatic, Left Renal and Diaphragmatic ,, ,, ,, Left Renal. Suprarenal and Aortic ,, ,, both, and to the Spermatic. Aortic and Renal. Left Suprarenal Renal (Right or Left) Spermatic ( ,, ,, ,, ) Aortic Diaphragmatic gives to the Hepatic and to both Suprarenals Renal (right and left) ,, ,, both Reuals and both Spermatics. ROOTS. The Phrenic Nerves join the .Diaphragmatic Plexus ; the Right through the Ganglion of Swan, sending on filaments to the Right Suprarenal and Hepatic ; the Left sending only to the Left Suprarenal. The Right Vagus joins the Cceliac Plexus {k/i side) and Splenic; the Left Vagus joins the Hepatic. The Great Splanchnic ends in the Semilunar Ganglion, and joins the Suprarenal and Renal. ^t'l^^llL. " " " ^celiac Plexus," „ „ Renal. The Smallest (3rd) „ „ „ Renal „ " .' cojliac. N.B.—Primary or direct communications only are reproseiiied.