133 Arteries of Neck—con/mzjcd to Alicrics (8) Eiijht Brandies are given ofi',—four funcards, two hackwanh and two vpwardu (sec p. 135). to Veins (4) Ext. Jugular, lyingpai'allel£mA superf. to it in its 3rJ jjart, I Commun. Br. betw. Ext. & Int. Jugular ) I Facial , crossing Lingual (mnsoersdi/. to over it 7th (Facial) c/hove Digastric. 9th (Hypoglossal) ic/oeo ,, Glosso-ijharyngeal ( between it and Pharyngeal of Vagus j Int. Carotid. INTERNAL CAROTID (In the Neck), Passes up to Carotid Canal in the Angle between the Picctus Capitis Anticus Major behind and Pharynx internally. Course I At first it is superficial, or is overlapped by Sterno-niastoid, next it lies beneath Styloid Process and Stylo-pharyngcus Muscle, and lastly beneath Parotid Gland. Relation to Ai-tarics (4) to Nerves (8) Asc. Pharyngeal, on inner side, lying parcdlel. Post. Auricular, above Digastric Occipital, below Sterno-mastoid Br. of Occipital Glosso-pharyngeal Pharyngeal of Vagus ,, ,, Sympathetic Sujierior Laryngeal of Vagus transversely. to Veins (4) Internal Jugular, on inner side, \y\ng jmrallel. Communicating betweenlnt. c&Ext. Jugular ) „_„c!o;-irf TTi • 1 ( crosbiii^ T-, i transvcrseli/. Lingual ) crossingoi'Ci' it beneath „ and Hypoglossal Vagus Synipatlietic (main trunk) Loop between 1st and 2iid Cervical lying payallcl. Lines of Direction of the chief Vessels of the Neck, as indicated on the Surface. Int. Carotid and Common Carotid, from mid-point between Angle of Jaw and Mastoid Process to Sterno-clavicular Articulation. ^External Jugular Vein ,, ,, „ „ „ Middle of Clavicle. . External Carotid front of External Auditory Meatus to Cricoid Cartilage. (Steno's Duct ,, „ „ „ Mid-point between Nasal and Oral Apertures). Note that the mid-point between the Jaw and Mastoid Process marks the upper end ol two of these lines, and the front of the External zVuditury Meatus the upper "'1 ■ Tho Cricoid Cartilage (opposite 5th Cervical Vertebra) marks the point at which the Trachea iuid (Esopliagus commence, opposite to '"<^°^™"" Carotid becomes superficial, opposite to which the Inferior Thyroid Artery crosses inwards behind its Sheath, and opposite to which tho Middle Cervical tranglion of the Sympathetic is situated. It also indicates tho lower end of tho line of the External Carotid as shown above. The named Branches of all the main Arteries of the Head and Neck may be grouped in sets of two or four. 18