96 Muscles of the Upper 'Extremity—continued. Origins ■ Pronator duadratus. f Radius I Ulna (lower 2 inches of each). Deep Muscles on the Front of the Forearm Flexor Longus PoUicis f Radius (anterior surface). Flexor Profundus Digi- torum. Aponeurosis over it. Interosseous membrane. (Special Slip sometimes from Coronoid Pr.) ( t//rtn (ant. & int. surf.,upper|) I „ (post, border „ „) I Interosseous membrane. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. ' Int. Condyle of Humerus. Inner side of Coronoid Pr. of Ulna,. ' Oblique Line of Radius. Internal Lateral Ligament and Intermuscular Septum. Deep Muscles on the Back of the Forearm. Origins Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis. Radius (middle J). I Ulna (for 2 or 3 inches below I Anconeus). Interosseous Membrane. Extensor Primi Inter- nodii PoUicis. Radius (below Extensor Ossis | I Metacarp.) InterosseousMenibrane. I Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis. Extensor Indicis. jj, /2 or 3 in. below & behind W rr; /2 or 3 in. ^ VExt. Ossis Metacarp. / ) ^VExt. Seo" Interosseous Membrane for j Interosseous 1 inch below. below & behind Secundi lnteino( Interosseous Membrane for 1 inch below. * Excluding the upper two, viz., the Supinator Brcvis and the Anconeus. The Insertions of the Muscles are given on the next page. Compare together, first the Muscles in each Group, and then each Muscle of each Group with the corresponding Muscle of the con-esponding Group. The two remaining superficial Muscles of the Back of the Forearm are attached as follows :— Origin —External Supracondyloid Ridge (upper g) and Intermuscular Septum. Insertion—Base of the Styloid Process of the Eadius. Supinator Longus Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior Origin —External Supracondyloid Ridge (lower J) and Intermuscular Septum. Insertion —Base of the 2nd Metacarjial Bone. The two remaining deep Muscles on the Back of the Forearm are attached as follows :— ( External Condyle of Humerus ( Radius (post., ext., & Supinator Brevis, —Origin < External Lateral Ligament of Elbow —Insertion \ ant. surfaces above I (Ulna below Lesser Sigmoid Cavity for 1 or 2 inches ( Oblique Line). Ulna (post, surface above Oblique Line). The two former Muscles have somewhat similar origins, the two latter somewhat similar insertions. Anconeus, —External Condyle (by distinct Tendon) The relative and analogous positions of the Muscles at about the Middle of the Forearm are shown in the Diagram.