106 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. The Great Toe Las two Extensors and two Flexors, a special Abductor and a special Adductor. „ Little „ „ one Extensor ,, three ,, ,, ,, ,, a Plantar Interosseous as ,, ,, other Toes have each two Extensors ,, ,, ,, and two Interossei as Abductor and Adductor. Ext. Brevis Digit.—0?ii/m Flexor Brevis Digitorum Flexor Acces- l sorius Digit. Flexor Brevis PoUicis / Adductor Pol- \ licis Superior Surface of Great Process of Os Calcis Inferior border of Anterior Annular Ligament Inner Tubercle of Os Calcis Fascia and Intermuscular Septa i7ec«?, fleshy, from inner surface of Os Calcis Outer tendinous i outeredgeof Inf. surf, of ,, ,, " "I and Long Plantar Ligament Cuboid and External Cuneiform Bones Ligaments between them Bases of 2nd, .Srd and 4th Metatarsal Bones Sheath of Peroneus Longus I Abductor Pol- ) ( Inner Tubercle of Os Calcis licis \ " ( Internal Annular Ligament and Fascia * The Ile.ids contain Sesamoid Bones, and are sex^arated by the Tendon of the Flexor Longn.s rollici Base of 5th Metatarsal Bone Sheath of Peroneus Longus " j by four tendons \ and three «iHe?-tendonsof Ext. Long. Digit. ( by four tendons into ,, < 2ud Phalanges of four outer Toes ( like Fle.xor Sublimis Digitorum of Hand. ,, —Tendon of Flex. Long, Digit.,outer border. 5 by two Heads into 1st Phalanx " ( with Abductor and Adductor Pollicis. ,,.^^lst Phalanx, inner side of Base. outer (Flexor Brevis I Min. Digiti I Abductor Min. L Digiti Outer and Inner Tubercles of Os Calcis Fascia and Intermuscular Septa TransversusPedis— of Great Toe, with Adductor Pollicis. \ Head of 5th Metatarsal Bone j Transverse Metatarsal Ligament " ( Of the three Muscles connected with the Tubercles of the Os Calcis, one the Abductor of the LtttU Toe, arises from both Tubercles, the others from the Inner Tubercle only. Each of the above Muscles is connected at its origin partly with Bone, partly with Ligament or Fascia, and at its insertion (excluding the common Muscles of the Toes) with the Base of a lat Phalanx, Notice the grouping in sets of three, each consisting of a pair and a single Muscle,