FASCIA. 108 Temporal Fascia, attached as ( Infcriorly, between the two layers are From behind forwards a s/iujle layer to the Temporal Ridge bounding the Temporal Fossa. two layers ,, inner and outer borders of the Zygomatic Arch. an Orbital twig from the Temporal Artery (Anastomotic Br.). a Temporal ,, ,, „ Orbital Nerve (from Superior Maxillary). iThe superficial surface of the Fascia is covered by the Epicranial Aponeurosis. „ deep „ ,, „ attaches fibres of the Temporal Muscle, except below and in front. Immediately above the Zygoma anteriorly there are seven layers overlying the Temporal Muscle. 1. Skin, 4. Outer layer of Temporal Fascia, 2. Superficial Fascia and Vessels, 5. Fatty tissue, 3. Epicranial Aponeurosis, 6. Inner Layer of Temporal Fascia, 7. Loose tissue over tendon of Temporal Muscle. Deep Cervical Fascia. is attached posiej'io)'?)/ to Spines of Vertebra3 and Ligameutum Nuchte, splits into two layers to enclose Trapezius, forms a single layer over the Posterior Triangle, splits into two layers to enclose the Sterno-mastoid, forms a single layer over the Anterior Triangle, splits to enclose the Depressor Muscles of the Larynx, blends anter/orli/ with the corresponding Fascia of the opposite side. 1 Zygoma posteriori//. Connected above with < Body of Jaw anteriorly. ( Angle of Jaw and Styloid Process intermediately, by a special layer forming Stylo-maxillary Ligament. Clavicle externally. Anterior surface of Sternum internally. [gland. Posterior „ ,, „ by a distinct layer, separated from that attached to front of Sternum by fat and a ( Hyoid Bone. ( Sheath of Carotid Vessels. Parotid Gland (viz., Parotid Fascia). Masseter Muscle (viz.. Masseteric Fascia). Subclavian Artery externally. Great Vessels passing into Thorax interncdly. f The sheath of the Subclavian Artery is connected with the Fascia of tlie Arm. I ), II Thoracic Vessels ,, ,, ,, the fibrous layer of the roricardium. ( Develops a special hand above by which the Sterno-mastoid is held forward towards the Angle of the Jaw. ( 1) » II ,1 below,, „ „ Omo-hyoid „ bound down to the 1st Kib. below intermediately Gives investments above to Forms sheaths below for