Arteries of the Upper Extremity—coiiiinued. 143 ULNAR AND RADIAL ARTERIES. The Ulnar, tlie larger, lies deeply above but siiperjicialli/ below, and in the Hand forms Superficial Palmar Arch. ,, Radial,, snudler, ,, super/icialhj ,, deeply ,, ,, „ ,, Deep ,, ,, ( beneath Muscles arising from Int. Condyle'above, and overlapped by Flexor / Ulnar passes downwards and inwards \ Carpi Ulnaris. In Forearm ' ' resting on the tliree Muscles attached to Ant. Surface^of Ulna (see ' Ulna'). \ Radial o t ards 1 beneath the Integuments, overlapped by Supinator Longus. " i> M I resting on the six Muscles attached to the ant. surf, of Kadius (sec ' Radius'). Each Artery is accompanied by VeiiK; Comitcs. The Ulnar is accompanied by tlie Ulnar Nerve in its lower §, the Radial by the Radial Nerve in its middle J only. The Ulnar and Radial Nerves lie to the inner and outer sides of the Ulnar and Radial xVrtcries respectively. Just above Wrist both Arteries lie superficially on the outer sides of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Flexor Carpi Radialis respectively. At Wrist \ "^^^^^ v\xn& superficially over Annular Lig. beneath Integuments to pass into Palm beneath Palmaris Brevia. (Radial,, deeply ,, Ext. Lateral „ ,, Extensors of Thumb „ „ „ through 1st Dorsal Interosseous. The Ulnar Nerve accompanies the Ulnar Aj-tery over the Annular Ligament, to end on the inner side of the Palmar surface of the Hand. „ Radial ,, passes away from „ Radial „ beneath the Supinator Longus Tendon ,, ,, outer ,, ,, Dorsal ,, ,, ,, In Hand Ulnar curves outwards, resting on Flexor Tendons beneath Palmar Fascia, forming Superficial Palmar Arch. Radial ,, inwards beneath ,, ,, resting on Metacarpus ,, Deep „ „ The Superficial Arch is completed by joining externally a branch of the Radial, viz., Superficialis Vo1;e (or Radialis ludicis) -Deep ,, ,, „ internally „ „ Ulnar, „ Deep Palmar Branch. BRANCHES IN FOREABM Radial f Radial Recurrent to anterior aspect of External Condyle of Humerus, supplying Elhoic-Joiitt. J Jluscular Branches, unnamed, to outer Muscles of Forearm anteriorly. I Anterior Carpal to anterior aspect of lower end of Radius, supplying Wrist-joint. [, J/iisciiiai-Branch (Superficialis Volse) to outer Muscles of Palm (Muscles of Thumb).