VEINS OP HEAD AND NECK. 151 ti \ { crosses inwards transversely at the root of the Neck under cover of the Clavicle. The Subclavian Vein < 1 External Jugular, at the outer border of the Sterno-Mastoid, (receives ttree veins from above •< Vertebral „ Inner „ „ Scalenus Anticus, ( Internal ,, forming with it the Innominate Vein. The External and the Internal Jugular Veins are each formed by the union of two Vessels, and each receives six Tributaries. The Vertebral Vein is supplemented by its union with two collateral Vessels. External Jugular is formed in the Parotid Gland by the union of the Temporal and Internal Maxillary Veins, passes thence downwards superficiallij to the Cervical Fascia over the Sterno-mastoid, and ends beneath Fascia at lowermost part of Posterior Triangle, after crossing the 3rd. Pari of the Subclavian Art. f Communicating from Internal Jugular. f Anterior Jiigular (usually). Tributaries, a&ove^ Posterior Auricular. Idovj -< Transverse Cervical ), . , c i. i • . i_ 1 Posterior Ext. Jugular (from Post. Triangle). [Suprascapular | forming a plexus over Subclavian Artory. (is formed below Foramen Jugulare by union of Lateral and Inferior Petrosal Sinuses. Internal Jugular < passes thence downwards heneafh Cervical Fascia, under Sterno-mastoid, ext. to Int. and Common Carotids. ( ends at the lowermost part of the Anterior Triangle, after crossing the 1st Part of the Subclavian Artery. {Occipital. CSuperior Thyroid. Facial. hdoto < Middle Thyroid. Lingual. (Pharyngeal. The upper end of the Internal Jugular and the lower end of the External, are each somewhat expanded. Compare the Jugular Veins as above described. ( commences in Muscles, etc., below the Occiput, and receives twigs from the Spinal Canal, etc. Vertebral Vein < descends through the Foramina in Cervical Transverse Processes in front of Vertebral Artery and crosses 1st ( part of Subclavian Artery. _ . . (a vein from the front of the Spine (Anterior Vertebral) which accompanies the Ascending Cervical Artery. Tritiutn,i-ic= I j^^^j. (Deep Cervical) „ „ Deep ,, „ Thus the Veins which correspond to the three Arteries which ascend icitJdn, in front of, and behad the Cervical Transverse Processes (see Subclavian Artery, p. 134) unite, and empty themselves by a common trunk. Facial Vein The Facial Vein receives blood from the Regions which lie around that supplied by the Facial Artery. 1 Its,Tribiitaries are the Frontal, Supraorbital and Palpebral Veins, corresponding to Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery. < ,, last Tributary is the Ranine Vein >> a Branch ,, Lingual ,, (infemectoe/t/it receives the Ant. Int. Maxill. V. from the Pterygoid Plexus ,, „ Branches ,, Int. Maxillary ,, The other Tributaries correspond to the Branches of the Facial Artery. 20-2