INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 123 Course ^ rims from Lumbo-sacral Joint to upper border of 8acro-sciatic Foramen, ( ends by subdividing into two trunks, Anterior and Posterior. Relations, —in front the Ureter, behind the Internal Iliac Vein (separating it from the Lumbo-sacral Cord). Fur other parts with analogous relations see ' Intercostal Arteries,' p. US. The Branches, like those of the Thoracic or Abdominal Aorta, may be arranged in three Grouji,?, each consisting of three Vessels or sets of Vessels. The First Group comprises three Arteries, which supply parts external to the Pelvis. Seeoncl ,, Third „ FIKST GROUP. Three aiwjle Vessels Pudic sets of the imlls of viscera . two terminal branches of the Anterior Division branch Posterior of the Internal Iliac, Relations Branches, six (all primary) Sciatic Braachts !leaves Pelvis through the Great Sacro-sciatic Foramen lying on Ischial Spine internal to Sciatic Artery, etc. re-enters ,, ,, ,, Small ,, ,, ,, below ,, ,, between accompanying Nerves, runs along outer wall of Ischio-rectal Fossa in aponeurotic Canal superficial to Pudic Nerve, enters between layers of Triangular Ligament, and piercing the anterior, divides into 2 terminal branches. ( lies first on Pyriformis and Sacral Plexus of Nerves, separated from them by Pyriformis Fascia. < ,, next,, Spine of Ischium between Pudic Nerve on inner and Nerve to Obturator Internus on outer side. ( !> )) )) Obturator Internus Muscle „ ,, ,, above „ Perinoeal Branch of Pudic Nerve below. ( tiro in Ischio-rectal Fossa, —Inferior Hfemorrhoidal and Superficial Perineal. -'Av)o ,, relation with Triangular Lig.,—Transverse Artery ,, Artery of Bulb. ( IKO terminal, —Dorsal Artery and Artery of Corpus Cavcrnosum. Compare with the Branches of the Pudic Nerve. Passes out of Pelvis along with and on outer side of the Pudic Artery, having similar relations. ,, down between Tuber Ischii and Great Trochanter to end opposite lower border of Gluteus Maximus. / one vpicanls to join Gluteal, I ,, fomards (.Vnastomotic) towards upper border of Great Troch.anter. I ,, backwards (Coccygeal) througli Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament to back of C'occy.K. I downiixi.nh (Comes Nervi Ischiatici) to substance of Great Sciatic Nerve. Small twigs are given to the Hip-joint, and to the Muscles and Skin behind it.