LIGAMENTS OF KNEE-JOINT. 61 EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS. Internal Lateral, —a flat band, External Lateral, —a round cord ,,11 { above to Internal Tuberosity of Fumur. below „ „ ,, „ Tibia, and to contiguous part of Bone. Short Ext. Lateral,—(posterior to Long Ext. Lat.) „ above ,, External ,, ,, Femur, below „ ,, side of Head of Fibula. above ,, Outer Head of Gastrocnemius, below „ Styloid Process of Fibula. Under the Internal Lateral Ligament are the Tendon of the Semi-membranosus and the Int. Inf. Articular Artery. ,, „ External ,, „ ,, Popliteus ,, ,, Ext. ,, ,, Over ,, Internal ,, ,, „ Tendons „ Sartorius, Gracilis and Semitendinusus. In front and behind the attachment of the Long Ext. Lateral Ligament is inserted the Tendon of the BicciJS. Anterior Posterior, (Ligamentum PatelUe or I Tendon of Quadriceps Extensor/ ^.plpjg \ 2 lateral parts, vertical " ( 1 central part, oblique attached above to Apex of Patella and contiguous part of Posterior .Surface. ' „ heloiij ,, lower part of Tubercle of Tibia. above „ Heads of Gastrocnemius, it/oio to Tuberosities of Tibia posteriorly ,, outer head of „ „ „ Tendon of Semi-membranosus. Capsular The intervals between the parts arc closed by irregular fibres. To the Posterior Ligament are attached the I'lantaris and Popliteus Muscles. Fills intervals between the other External Ligaments, and is strengthened by reliections from Fascia Lata and sur- rounding Tendons, continuous with anterior border of Internal Lateral Ligament, closely connected with anterior surface of Anterior ,, passing free over outer ,, „ External Lateral Ligament, and continued into „ border ,, Posterior Ligament. The Capsule with the Posterior Ligament thus makes one turn of a spiral. Between the inner border of Posterior Lig., and the posterior border of Int., Lateral Lig t)ie tendon of Senii'mcilibl'anosus is inserted. INTERNAL LIGAMENTS. Anterior Crucial, —oblique, attached below to surface in front of Spine of Tibia, above to inner surface of Outer Condyle of Femur. Posterior Crucial,—vertical „ „ ,, Popliteal Notch of Tibia „ „ outer ,, „ Inner „ „ „ 9