Muscles of the Back~conii7med. If the attachments of the muscles situated in the upper part of the Dorsal Eegion and at the back of the Neck be examined in relation to each other as indicated in the Diagram, the following points may be noticed :— The Spines of the Cervical Vertebrfe are seen to be in the same line with the Spines of the Dorsal VertebrK. „ Articular Processes „ ,, „ ,, ., ,, ,, Transverse Processes ,, „ ,, i, Transverse ,, „ ,, ,, ,, „ „ ,, „ „ Angles of the JRibs. To each set of Processes in the Neck 4 Muscles or parts of Muscles of the Back are attached, excluding the more superficial muscles {those of the First Groixp) which are attached to the Spines; thus :— f J Cervicalis Ascendens (Insertion) f J Trachelo-mastoid (Origin) fSplenius (Cap.) (Origin) To the Trans- | j Transversalis ( ,, ) To the I ( Complexus ( ,, ) Xo the I Complexus ( ,, ) verse Articular ] Snines I processes ( Splenius (Colli) ( „ ) Processes I ( Semispinalis (Colli) ( ,, ) | Semispinalis Colli (Insertion) L ( Lev. Anguli Scapulre (Origin) t (Multitidus Spiuse { ,, ) IMuItitidus Spinas ( ,, ) Of these muscles, two of those attached to the Transverse Processes (Splenius and Levator Anguli Scapula?) and two of those attached to the Spines (Semispinalis and Multifidus Spinte) are not symmetrical with the rest. The remaining muscles are attached to t/iree and Jive VertebrDc alternately. Of these remaining muscles the outermost, Cervicalis Ascendens, is attached below as low as the 6th Rib. „ innermost, Splenius, ,, „ ,, ,, ,, Dorsal Spine. „ rest, Complexus, Trachelo-mastoid and Transversalis, are ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Transverse Process. The Transversalis is attached to Transverse Processes onlj'. ,, Trachelo-mastoid ,, „ ,, ,, and Articular Processes. „ Complexus „ ,, ,, ,, Articular and Spinous Processes. The Origins of the Semispinalis Colli and Multifidus Spinte in the Neck are similar to those of the Trachelo-mastoid and Complexua in the Neck respectively. Besides the/o!h- Groups of Muscles above described, there are four single Muscles—special Extensors and Rotators of the Head—situated immediately below the Occiput, Rectus Posticus Minor,—Or;^;?i, Tubercle on Posterior Arch of Atlas ; Insertion, Inferior Curved Line of Occipital Bone internally. Rectus Posticus Major,— „ Spine of Axis „ „ ,, „ externally. Obliquus Inferior, — „ „ „ „ Transverse Process of Atlas. Obliquus Superior, — „ Transverse Process of Atlas „ Interval between Curved Lines externally.