SACRAL PLEXUS. 183 THE SACRAL PLEXUS is formed by the union of the upper three Sacral Nerves, and is supplemented by part of the 4th Sacral below, and by the Lumbo-sacral Cord (composed of the 5th and part of the 4th Lumbar) above. The remainder of the 4th SACRAL is subdivided as follows :—A triple Muscular Branch supplies the Levator and the Sphincter Ani and the Coccygeus,—a Pelvic Branch joins the Pelvic Plexus to end in the Pelvic Viscera,—and a Coccygeal Branch joins with the 5th Sacral and the Coccygeal to form a Plexus over the Coccyx.—The fourth Sacral thus gives four Branches. BRANCHES. From the 2nd and 3rd near their origin are given off special Branches to the Pyriformis. „ ,, Lumbo-sacral Cord is ,, ,, the Sup. Gluteal. ) „ ,, Loop between 1st and 2ad „ ,, ,, ,, N. to the Obtur. Int. ) !> )) 1st ,, 2nd „ ,, ,, ,, ,, „ Sup. Gemellus. „ ,, „ ,, 2nd ,, 3rd „ ,, ,, ,, „ „ Inf. Gemellus and Q,uadratus. T ^„T^„ „„ 1 „f J.1 -Ri \ „ „ Pudic and Small Sciatic. ) „ „ Lower end of the Plexus are „ „ j„ Great Sciatic. \ The Great Sciatic forms the direct continuation of the Plexus, the Pudic and Small Sciatic being accessory to it. As in the case of the Lumbar Plexus there is thus one terminal Branch and six lateral.—Compare with the Lumbar Plexus and Brachial Plexus, Diagram B. Note that excluding tlio three terminal Branches, the lateral Bi-anohes supply the Muscles attached round the Groat Trochanter from before back, and that they come o£E from the Plexus in the order in which those Muscles are fixed to the Trochanter. BRANCHES OF SACRAL PLEXUS—DISTRIBUTION. The Nerves to the Pyriformis enter the anterior surface of the Muscle within the Pelvis. The Superior Gluteal Nerve emerges from the Pelvis through the Great Sacro-sciatic Foramen, above the Pyriformis, and divides into two Branches. The Upper Branch, the smaller, supplies the two superior or anterior Glutnei, viz. :—the G. Medius and G.'_Minimus. Lower ,, „ larger „ ,, same muscles together with the Tensor Vaginas Femoris. The Superior Gluteal Nerve thus supplies the three Rotators in of the Hip-joint. ( emerges from the Pelvis through the Gt. Sacro-sciatic Foramen, below the Pyriformis, over the Ischial Spine, The N. to the Obturator Int. < and re-enters ,, ,, „ „ Small ,, ,, ,, with the Ubt. Int. Tendon to pierce the / inner surface of the Muscle. 24— 2