Thoracic Aorta,—continued. 116 Descending Part j Relations behind, —Vertebral column with Ligaments. \ to left, —Left Lung ,, Pleura. J to right,—Esophagus ,, Thoracic Duct. ( !»/ro«^—Root of Left Lung ,, Posterior Pulmonary Plexus. DESCENDING AORTA. Course etc ^ commences at left side and lower border of 3rd (or 4th or 5th) Dorsal Vertebra, Relations and ends in mid-line at 12th Dorsal Vertebra. ' Lies in Posterior Mediastinum, hehind Pericardium, resting on Vertebrte and Ligaments. OLsophagus is at first to right side, then in front, and lastly a little to left side. ( Vena Azygos Minor is hehind in lower part. < „ „ Major and Thoracic Duct are to right side. . ( Left Lung and Pleura are to left side. The Branches of the Thoracic Aorta, like the branches of the Abdominal Aorta or the Internal Iliac Artery may be arranged in three Groups, each consisting of three Vessels or sets of Vessels. The First Group comprises three single Arteries, which supply parts external to the Thorax. ,, Second „ ,, ,, sets oi ,, ,, ,, the walls of ,, ,, „ Third „ „ ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, viscera,. FIRST GROUP. Innominate Left Common Carotid at origin rests on Trachea to right side of mid-line, close to Left Common Carotid Artery. next-gdisaes to right ,, ,, rest on the Longus Colli Muscle. ( at origin rests on ,, to left side of mid-line, close to Innominate Art. < next passes to left of ,, ,, rest on (Esophagus and Thoracic Duct. (lastly ,, ,, „ Oesophagus „ ,, Longus Colli Muscle. ^ (the Sternum and the Muscles attached to it, In front of both Vessels are \ ''lernum ana tne Muscles attacned to it _ •' (the remains of the Thymus Gland and the Left Innominate Vein. Alongside ,, ,, lie the Cardiac Nerves. On outer side of Innominate is the Eight Innominate Vein separating it from the Phrenic Nerve. >. 11 >> Left Carotid ,, Left Pneumogastrio Nerve „ „ Left Subclavian Artery. (The two Vessels would have similar relations if the (Esophagus did not lie somewhat to the left side of the Trachea at the top oi the Thorax)