87 MUSCLES OF THORAX. Six Muscles or sets of Muscles enter into the formation of the Thoracic Wall. ■ Two lateral sets Tioo posterior between Ribs, ( superficial to ,, / beneath ,, Tivo anterior Muscles •External and Internal Intercostals. Levatores Costarum. Infracostales. in front of Sternum,—Rectus Sternalis (rudimentary), behind ,, —Triangularis Sterni. Ext. Intercostals (11) I,Int. Intercostals (11) attached to contiguous margins of the Ribs, from Tubercles to Anterior Angles. extending further forwards below than above, reaching to end of Cartilages in lower two Spaces, fibres are directed downwards and forwards. attached to contiguous margins of Ribs and Cartilages, from ant. extremities of Cartilages to Post. Angles of Ribs. extending further backwards above and below than intermediately. fibres are directed downwards and backwards. (In loiL'er two spaces continuous with Internal Oblique). arising, the first from the Transverse Process of 7th Cer v. Vert., the others one from each Dorsal Transverse Proc, Xievatores Costarum (12) \ inserted, one into the upper border of each Rib, between the Tubercle and Posterior Angle. fibres directed parallel to those of External Intercostals—longer in lower than in upper spaces. , Infracostales (10 or less) attached to inner surfaces of contiguous Ribs between Tubercles and Posterior Angles. fibres dii-ected parallel to those of Interned Intercostals—stronger in loicer than in upper spaces. Rectus Sternalis Triangularis Sterni lying along lateral portion of anterior surface of Sternum. united above with Sterno-mastoid, below with Rectus Abdominis. . . { from under surface of Ensiform Cartilage and Cartilages of lower three true Ribs. •' I „ side of Sternum as high as 3rd Cartilage. inserted into all the true Ribs (except the last two and the first) at the Costo-chondral Joints. Those portions of the Muscles which are external (viz., the External Intercostals, Levatores Costarum and the parts of the Internal Inter- costals between the Cartilages), are Muscles of Inspiration. Those portions of the Muscles which are internal (viz., the Infracostales, the parts of the Internal Intercostals between the Ribs and the Triangularis Sterni), are Muscles of Expiration, 12—2