Muscles of Pharynx, Etc.—contimied, 79 Palato-pliaryngeus —see Muscles of Palate. e,„, . „ „i,„„,^«,«„» ( arising ahove from Cartilage of Eustachian Tube. Salpmgo-pharyngeus | blending below with Palato-pharyngeus. Stvlo nTiarvriP-pus \ arising above from inner surface of Base of Styloid Process of Temporal Bone. OTjyiO-pna y ge | inserted below with posterior border of Tliyroid Cartilage, blending with Palato-pharyngeus. All three Muscles are more or less united below, as indicated. Of the Muscles connected with the Styloid Process :— The Stylo-hyoid arises from the outer side of the Base, and crosses over the External Carotid Artery. TheStylo-pharyngeus „ „ „ inner,, „ „ „ „ j "ver"" internal The Stylo-glossus ,, ,, ,, Apex, and from the Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and is not in relation with either vessel. Of the Ligaments connected with the Styloid Process : — The Stylo-maxillary gives origin to the Stylo-glossus Muscle by its upper end. The Stylo-hyoid „ ,, „ Middle Constrictor ,, lower ,, MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. Of the five muscles of the Soft Palate :— two, the Levator and Tensor Palati, descend from above ; t2vo, the Palato-glossus and Palato-pharyngeus, ascend from below; and one, the Azygos, lies horizontally in the Palate itself. Attachments of the muscles externally to the Soft Palate :— \ Levator Palati, —to Apex of Petrous Part of Temporal Bone, and to inner and back part of Eustachian Tube. (Tensor ,, —„ Scaphoid Fossa and Spine of Sphenoid ,, outer „ fore ,, ,, „ Azygos, —,, Posterior Nasal Spine and contiguous Aponeurosis, t Palato-glossus, — ,, Tongue (lateral surface and dorsum) in union with Stylo-glossus. I Palato-pharyngeus, —,, Thyroid Cartilage (posterior border) and contiguous portion of Pharynx. Connection of the Muscles with the Soft Palate :— !-D^T^4-^ „T,„™_™„,,-, i. i.r. T> 1 J. • i j; • T i one lying next the mucous membrane on surface of Palate. Palato-pliaryngeus enters the Palate m two fascicuh j ^j^^ intermediately between the Levator and Tensor Palati. Palato-glossus ,, ., „ one fasciculus ,, next the mucous membrane on twi«!er surface of Palate, Azygos, —lying next to mid-line of Palate, is connected laterally with the Levator Palati. ^