ARTERIES OF NEOK. 131 The Subclavian supplies the lower and posterior parts of the Neck; the External Carotid the upper and anterior. The Common Carotid and Internal Carotid Arteries give no branches in the Neck. ( commences its course in the Neck at the upper border of the Sterno-clavicular Articulation, SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ] terminates „ „ lower border „ „ 1st Rib, and ( arches intermediaiehj over the Apex of the Lung. It is thus subdivided into three Parts, 1st or Ascendbnj, •2nd or Transverse, and 3rd or Descendiitg. Relation to Muscles, etc. !In the First and Second Parts it rests on the summit of the Pleura, and in the Third Part on the 1st Rib. ,, „ Second ,, Third ,, ,, /ie.s/H//'o/i< of the Scalenus Medius „ „ First ,, in front of the Longus Colli. ,, „ First ,, Second ,, ,, lies beneath „ Sterno-mastoid „ Third ,, beneath the Integuments. The First Part is also covered by the Hyoid Depressors, the Second by the Scalenus Anticus, and the Third is overlapped by the Clavicle. ( The First and Third Pcu-ts are each inrtsted by a Sheath of Deep Cervical Fascia. The Sheath on the Third Part is continued on the Axillary Vessels into the Axilla and is connected with the Costo-coracoid Membrane. ( ,, ,, ,, First ,, ,, „ Great ,, ,, Thorax „ ,, Pericardium. Relation to Vessels and Nerves.—Considerable analogy may be noticed in the relations of the 1st and 3rd Parts of the Subclavian, and of the three Carotid Arteries, thus :—the Arteries in relation with them are in multiples of two ; the Veins in each case are four in number, one being parallel to the Vessel and three crossing it, or three being parallel and one crossing it; the Nerves are in pairs, two being usually in front and two behind. First Part. to \fottr Branches are given off. Arteries (4) ( (usually three only on right side). I Subclavian, below, lying parallel. to ) Internal Jugular ^ Veins (4) \ Anterior Jugular* > crossing, transversehj. [ Vertebral ) i Nerve to Subclavius, crossing to ) Lowest Cord of Brachial Plexus lying parallel Nerves (4) ) Desc. Cut. Ns. of Cerv. Plex. in Integuments ' Long Thoracic N. of Brach. Plex. in Seal, Med. behind * Generally separated by Ilyold Muscles, in front behind in front | i (2) (4) (4) Third Part. (i Transverse Cervical \ Suprascapular / External Jugular, j Suprascapular ) 1 Transverse Cervical \ ' ( Subclavian i A'agus ) Cardiac of Sympathetic i Sympathetic (r Recurrent of Vagus (on right side only) \ t Forming a Plexus over the Artery. crossing, crossing transv. lying jiarallel. crossing i')!yVo)(/. crossing behind.