VEINS OF ABDOMEN. 155 INFERIOR VENA { '^^ right side of 5th Lumbar Vertebra by the junction of the two Common Iliac Veins. CAVA J ascends ,, „ „ Aorta, but is separated from it above by the Right Crus of the Diaphragm. ( becomes embedded in the posterior border of the Liver and passing through Diaphragm ends in Eight Auricle. It rests on all the right lateral branches of the Aorta except the Spermatic (or Ovarian) which crosses it. Its Tributaries correspond to the Branches of the Abdominal Aorta which pass to the non-alimentary Viscera, and to the Abdominal Parietes. It also receives the Hepatic Veins. On the left side the Suprarenal and Spermatic Veins open into the Renal Vein, but on the right side into the Vena Cava directly. The Middle Sacral Vein generally ends in the Left Common Iliac Vein. ILIAC VEINS, —For relations, etc., see 'Iliac Arteries,' p. 122. Tributaries f The Common Iliac Vein receives the Ilio-lumbar and Lateral and Middle Sacral Veins. \ „ Ksternal and Internal Iliac Veins receive Branches corresponding to the Branches of the Arteries which they accompany. The Visceral Veins in the Pelvis form a series of Plexuses from before backwards around or below the Viscera, ( anterior!!/ with the veins external to the Pelvis by the Dorsal Vein of the Penis, communicating < above and behind „ „ Portal Vein by the Superior Heemorrhoidal Vein. ( below ,, ,, „ ,, Int. Iliac Vein ,, direct branches. ( 3 inches long, commences by union of Superior Mesenteric and Splenic Vein, over Inf. Vena Cava, beneath Pancreas. PORTAL VEIN < passes up beneath Hepatic Duct and Hepatic Artery,—-the former being to the right of the latter. ( divides in Transverse Fissure of Liver into right and left Branches for corresponding Lobes. For Relations in root of Liver see ' Intercostal .Vrterics,' p. US. ( Running from left to right beneath the Pancreas is the Splenic Vein, •p«»^n+;/^»,/^*Tr„:..,„ 4. ■ t, t.u ■^ i i i ( the Inf. Mesenteric to the fr/i; on its way to ioin with the Splenic. to PanSyas i " " ''^^^'^ " to form with Splenic the Portal I „ ,, ,, upper ,, on the left side, are branches from the large end of the Stomach. [Vein, (.emerging from ,, ,, ,, „ right ,, is the Portal Vein, See ' Arteries of Pancreas,' p. U9. Tlie Intercostal veins have complete valves ; the Azygos veins have imperfect valves ; the left Spermatic has one valve at its junction with the Kenal; and the Inferior Vena Cava has an imperfect one at its point of entry into the Eight Auricle, The other veins of the Thorax and Abdomen have no valves.