100 MUSCLES OF LOWER EXTREMITY. MUSCLES ACTING UPON THE HIP AND KNEE-JOINTS. The Muscles acting upon tlie Hip-joint may be divided into six Groups ; four of these Groups are specially concerned with the movements of the Hip, the other two chiefly with those of the Knee. In each of two Groups of the former set there are six ilusdes, in each of the other tu-o Groiqos there are three. One of the muscles of each of these four Grouj^s extends below the Knee and acts upon it as well as upon the Hip. The other ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, are attached to the Femur and act only upon the Hip. As in the Upper Extremity, the movements produced by the Muscles of each of these four Groups are compoimd, thus :— The First Group consists of three Plexors (a), which also rotate out(b) and adduot slightly (c). ,, Second „ „ „ six Adductors (c), „ „ flex (a) ,, rotate out (b). ,, Third „ „ „ three Rotators in (b'), „ „ abduct (c') „ flex (a). ,, Fourth „ „ „ six Rotators out (b),^ „ „ abduct (c') „ extend (a'). FLEXORS—three—two acting on the Hip and one on the Hip and Knee. lliapu"? \ ^"ff"* —Iliac Fossa intermediately, Ilio-lumbar Ligament hehiiid, and Capsular Ligament of Hip in front. ( I Insertion—Small Trochanter [lower edge) and surface of Femur below and in front of it. Psoas Magnus \ ^'''"J"^ \ Roots"of Transv erse Processes of ,, „ and fibrous arches over lateral surfaces Contiguous borders of Bodies of last Dorsal and all the Lumbar Vertebra; and intermediate Intervert. Discs. Insertion—Small Trochanter [apex). [of Bodies. {Psoas Parvus arises with the 1st slip of origin of Psoas Magnus, and ends below in the Ilio-pectineal Eminence and Iliac Fascia.) Sartorius \ ^"V''* —Anterior Superior Spine of Ilium and half the Notch below it. ( Ins/'rtion —Tibia, inner suiface for H in. by the side of Tubercle, giving expansions to Fascia of Leg and Int. Lateral Lig. In front of the Ilip-joint the Psoas is tendinous and is Sfpc'rcited from the Capsule by a bursa, whilst the Iliacua is mascidar and is united to the Capsule by muscular fibres. These Muscles are the outer three of the six entering into the formation of Scarpa's Triangle, and are supplied by special branches of the Lumbar Plexus or of the Anterior Crural Nerve.