144 Arteries of the Upper "Extremity—continued. ' (Anterior Ulnar Recurrent, to anterior aspect of Internal Condyle of Humerus. (Posterior ,, „ ,, posterior ,, ,, ,, ,, Ulnar I Unnamed Muscular Branches, to muscles on inner side of Forearm anteriorly. '• Interosseous Artery ( by Anterior Interosseous Div. to deep Muscles on front of Forearm and to Bones of Forearm, ( ,, Posterior ,, ,,^11 ,i liack ,, ,, ,, Elbow and Wrist-joints. ( Anterior Carpal, to join Anterior Carpal of Radial, across lower margin of anterior surface of Radius (above Wrist). (Posterior ,, „ Posterior ,, ,, ,, tlie back of the Carpus {below ,, ). f Superficial Branch, to form Superficial Palmar Arch, .and to supply parts on inner side of Palm of Hand. I, (Deep ,, (Communicating Braiich) to join Deep Palmar Arch. Thus for every Branch of the Radial Artery in the Forearm there are two somewhat similar Branches of the Ulnar Artery. ANASTOMOSIS BOUND ELBOW-JOINT. I The Superior Profunda divides above tlie External Condyle into two branches, one going in front of it and one behind it. ) ,, Aiiastomotica ,, ,, Internal „ „ ,, „ „ ,, ,, ,, i, j ,, Anterior and Posterior Ulnar Recurrents pass up to the Internal Condyle, the Anterior ,, ,, ,, the Post. „ ( ,, Radial and ,, Interosseous,, ,, ,, External ,, „ former „ ,, ,, the latter ,, ,, Inferior Profunda ends behind the Internal ,, ,, Arteries in front of and behind each Condyle anastomose with each other. ( ,, Superior Profunda forms an arch above the Joint posteriorly with the Anastomotica and Inf. Profunda ) the arteries behind the beloT Posterior Ulnar Recurrent Condyles. j ,, Posterior Interosseous INTEROSSEOUS ARTERIES. Common Interosseous, an inch in length, arises from Ulnar near its origin and divides opposite upper border of Interosseous Membrane. Anterior i runs down deepli/ on anterior surface of Interosseous Membrane to supply the deep Muscles and both Bones of Forearm. I Interosseous ( passes through the lowermost part ,, „ „ „ end with Post. Interosseous in Post. Carpal Arch. A Special Branch accompanies the Median Nerve beneath the Annular Ligament to the Superficial Palmar Arch. -\ Thu.s, of three Ai-teries to the Palm, one (Ulnar) passes over the Annular Ligament, one (Median) beneath it, and one (Radial) outside it. I Posterior Interosseous passes backwards above upper border of Interosseous Membrane to appear at back between | £xt"os3 ""Met^Po runs down superficially along outer edge of Extensor Carpi Ulnaris to end in Posterior Carpal Arch. The Anterior Interosseous thus lies as deeply as possible, -whilst the Posterior lies superficially. Both end together in Posterior Carpal Arch. Compare with the ' Interosseous Nerves."