101- Muscles of Lower Extremity—conUnned. MUSCLES OP THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Of the four Muscles ou the front of the Leg (Flexors of Ankle and Extensors of Toes) two, Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Dic;itorum, are long, attached, the former to the Tibia, the latter to the Fibula chiefly. two, Extensor Propriua Pollicis and Peroneus Tertius ,, short, and alternate with the others, both being attached to the Fibula. S Tibialis Anticus, —Orir/!n —Outer surface (upper §) and outei- Tuberosity of'Tibia, Interosseous Membrane & Fascia, j ( Ext. Longus Digitorum,— ,, —Ant. „ (upper i') of Fibula „ ,, ,, „ „ ,, ,, „ „ I (Ext. Proprius Pollicis,— ,, — ,, ,, (middle^),, „ and Interosseous Membrane. I Peroneus Tertius, — ,, — ,, ,, (lower |)„ „ „ ,, ,, i Tibialis Anticus, —Inftrrtion —Base of first Metatarsal Bone, and Internal Cuneiform, j j Peroneus Tertius, — ,, — „ „ ,, „ / J Ext. Longus Digitorum,— ,, —by four tendons into Bases of 2nd and 3rd Phalanges of four outer toes, as in the Hand. (Ext. Proprius Pollicis, — ,, — ,, one tendon ,, Base of 2nd Phalanx of Great Toe. MUSCLES OF THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG. Peroneus Brevis, —Orhjhi —Fibula, lower § of outer surface and Fascia Inserlion—Base oi/StM. Metatarsal Bone. Peroneus Longus, — ,, — „ upper,, „ ,, „ „ „ — ,, „ ,, „ The tendons lie in the aauite groove behind the External Malleolus, and are invested by a common Synovial Sheath, but lie in separate grooves on the outer side of the Os Calcis, lined by prolongations from the common Sheath. The tendon of the Peroneus Longus is invested by a special Synovial Sheath as it lies in its canal In the Solo of the Foot. MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE LEG. Of the six Muscles on the Back of the Leg, two, the Plantaris and Gastrocnemius, are Flexors of the Knee and Extensors of the Ankle, two, the Soleus and Tibialis Posticus ,, Extensors of the Ankle only. ftpo, the Flexor Longus Digitorum and Flexor Longus Pollicis „ ,, ,, ,, and Flexors of the Toes. The attachments of the first two have been already mentioned : the remaining four arise from the bones of the Leg ; the Soleus and Tibialis Posticus from both, the Flexor Longus Pollicis from the Fibula, and the Flexor Longus Digitorum from the Tibia. (Tlie Muscle passing to the iancr side of the Foot arises from the outer Bone of the Leg, and vice vcrsd.)