ARTERIES OF BRAIN, ETC. INTERNAL CAROTID. enters the Skull tliroiigli the Carotid Canal, with Carotitl and Cavernous Plexuses of Nen-cs. lies next in the Cavernous Sinus witli the Nervrs passing through the Sphenoidal Fissure external to it. divides opposite Anterior Clinoid Process, lying between the 2ud and 3rd Nerves. 139 Course, etc., in Cranium Branches Ophthalmic J Two in Carotid Canal, viz. : —Art. Pveceptaculi and Branches to Tympanum, j Four in Cranial Cavity, viz. :—Ophthalmic, Post-Communicating, Ant. and Middle Cerebral. ( passes into Orbit through Optic Foramen on outer side of Optic Nerve, < next crosses orer the Nerve, and ( tinally runs along the inner side of Orbit to end on the Face. It gives off three Sets of Brandies, one on the oider side, one over, and one on the inner side of the Optic Nerve. The First Set comprises two Arteries, the Second three, and the 7hird four. The first and last Sets supply parts external to the Orbit, and the other parts within it. p. , o , f Iiachrymal, accompanying Lachrymal Nerve, and anastomosing with Great Meningeal through Sphenoidal Fissure. j-H5(occ "(Supraorbital, ,, Frontal Nerve. Sicond Set Third Stt r Central of Retina, runs in the substance of the Optic Nerve to innermost coat of Eyeball, viz., the Retina. ^ Ciliary S/m/-< (12) and io/jr/(2), lie closely round ,, ,, and pass to the middle ,, ,, ,, Choroid. LMuscular, ramify in the fat, etc., ,, ,, ,, ,, give off ^«(a-!Oi-Ciliary Brs. to front of Eyeball, viz., the Iris, etc. / Ethmoidal (iwo) inwards, through Ethmoidal Canals to Cranial Cavity and Nose. ' Palpebral ( ,, ) ovtmards, Superior and Inierior, to Eyelids and Conjunctiva. I Prontal {nm) upwards, witli Supraorbital Nerve. I ITasal VERTEBRAL. Course, etc., in Cranium Branches (4) BASILAR ART. Branches (4) ( ,, ) downwards, to join termination ot Facial Artery. See also 'Arteries of Dura Mater,' '^Vi-teries of Nose,' and ' Arteries of Eyelids.' For Cerebral Arteries, etc., see p. 1-40. winds to Anterior surface of Medulla between Roots of Suboccipital and Hypoglossal Nerves, joins with its fellow at the lower border of the Pons to form the Basilar Artery. Anterior and Posterior Spinal (See 'Intercostal Arteries ' p. 117). Posterior Meningeal and Posterior Inferior Cerebellar (see p. 140). extends from lower to upper border of Pons in mid-line, parallel to the Gth Nerve. Anterior Inferior Cerebellar and Superior Cerebellar ) Transverse Arteries of Pons* and Posterior Cerebral ( • One of these accompanies the Auditory Nerve to the Ear.