124 Internal Iliac Artery—continued. Gluteal, SECOND GKOUP Ilio-lumbar, Branches Lateral Sacral Both Vessels Obtvirator Bro.nches —Leaves Pelvis at upper border of Pyriformis, and divides at once into terminal branches. I one oulmurds (Superficial Branch) to supply Gluteus Jlaxlmus. J ,, forwards (Deep ,, ) double to accompany the Superior Gluteal Nerve, "j ,, dovmwardi, to communicate with the Sciatic xVrtery. \ backicards (Sacral) over Sacrum, to communicate with the Coccygeal Branch of the Sciatic. The Deep Branch supplies offsets to the Hip-joint. \ One single Vessel and one pair of Vessels from Posterior Division ) r Tjj+gj.jj j l\[a,c \ One ,, ,, ,, Anterior ,, J —passes beneath Psoas to margin of Iliac Fossa, and divides into Lumbar and Iliac Divisions. / Lumbar Division (iliac /passes vpwards and turns outvmrds opposite the last Lumbar Vertebr.a, beneath the Quadratus, 1 and gives branches like a Lumbar Artery, passes directly outvtards and gives branches to Iliacus Muscle and Ilium. the upper Vessel (the larger) ends over the upper part of the Sacrum. the lower ,, ,, lovper „ ,, descend obliquely, supplying the subjacent structures, and give Dorsal offsets through the Sacral Foramina to the Spinal Cord and Back of Sacrum. passes directly forward to Obturator Groove at upper and outer part of Obturator Foramen. lies in Sub-peritoneal tissue below Obturator Nerve, and divides beneath Obturator Externus Muscle into two terminal branches. Wltliui p , . (offsets to Iliacus Muscle and Iliiun, joining Branches of Ilio-lumbar. ™ I ,, „ Pubes and Bladder (Pubic) „ „ „ Epigastric. I p-/^ 1^ j External TerminalBranchjWiudmgext.round Obturator For.,supplj'ingmusclesandHip-jointl-^.j^jj^,,,,! ^ \ii.airnai lo | j^ternal ,, „ „ int. „ ,, ,, „ only J J THIBD GROUP, —One single, one double and one triple Vessel from the Anterior Division of the Internal Iliac. Middle Hsemorrhoidal,—passes direct to Rectum (often from Inferior Vesical). Uterine Vaginal enters Uterus at Neck and passes upwards tortuously, gives twigs to BLT,dder and Ureter, and joins offset from Ovarian. sujjplies Vagina, and gives twigs to contiguous parts of Bladder and Rectum. Superior Vesical—(lower part of obliterated Hypogastric Artery) supplies summit of Bladder. Middle ,, —(given oft" from Superior Vesical) supplies sides of Bladder, Vas Deferens and Ureter (lower end). Inferior ,, —generally arising separately ,, Base ,, „ Prostate and Vesicula; Seminales.