98 Muscles of the Upper "Extremity—continued. 'Extensor Communis Digitorum, —divides into three Tendons, the inner one subdividing later into two :— ( becomes aponeurotic over the 1st Phalanx and unites with tendons of | Ljj^^ibric'ales''^ Each Tendon < c i -di i -in ( the middle piece ending on base of 2nd Phalanx, ( divides over head of 1st Phalanx mto three I , ^ lateral pieces „ „ „ 3rd „ ° Extensor Indicis, —joins tendon of Extensor Communis to Index Finger. Extensor Minimi Digiti, —tendon divides into two portions, which join tendon of Ext. Communis to Little Finger. S (Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis,—passing over Extensores Carpi Eadialis, ends on Base of 1st Metacarpal of Thumb. I ^Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis— ,, ,, ,, „ „ 1st Phalanx ,, ° "S lExtensorSecundilnternodiiPoUicis— „ ,, ,, ,, „ ,, „ 2nd ,, „ ,, W There are thus on the Back of the Forearm one Extensor of the Forearm and two Supinators, t/iree Extensors of the Wrist, three Extensors of the Thumb, and three Extensors of Fingers. The Synovial Sheaths at the back of the Wrist correspond with the Grooves on the Bones, for which see 'Radius ' and ' Ulna.' MUSCLES OF THE HAND. There are three Flexors and three Extensors of the Thumb. ,, „ four „ ,, tivo „ ,, Little Finger. ,, tvjo ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Index „ ,, ,, „ „ one Extensor ,, 3rd and 4th Fingers. The Thumb and the Little Finger have each a special Abductor, and the Thumb has also a special Adductor. The Index, Middle, and King Fingers have each two Interossei attached to them, which act, the one as Abductor and the other as Adductor. The 3rd Palmar Interosseous is the Adductor of the Little Finger. Muscles of the Thumb. The Extensors of the Metacarpal Bone and of the 1st and 2nd Phalanges, and the Long Flexor, have been mentioned previously, C Abductor, —Origin —Trapezium (ridge) and Annular Ligament Insertion,—1st Phalanx (outer side of base), j Flexoi^Ossi^^Metacarpi | _ —Metacarpal Bone (front and outer border). Flexor Brevis — i Trapezoid and ,, „ j one with Abductor, riexor jsrevis, „ | Os Magnum and bases of 2nd & 3rd Metacarpals " "^^^^ | one with Adductor. .Adductor, — „ —3rd Metacarpal (lower g of Shaft) „ —1st Phalanx (inner side of base).