135 Arteries of 'Neck—continued. Transverse Cervical passes transversely outwards, parallel to but liiglier than Suprascapular Artery as far as Trapezius, then divides into Superficial Cervical Artery, which supplies structures in lower part of Posterior Triangle, Posterior Scapular ,, * runs down x^osterior border of Scapula beneath attached Muscles. * For distribution see ' Arteries of Scapula.' arises from First Part of Subclavian on the left side, and from Second Part on the right side. Sup. Intercostal I passes backwards and downwards behind summit of Pleura in front of Neck of 1st Rib to end in 1st Intercostal Space. ' gives off between Neck of 1st Rib and 1st Cervical Transverse Process the Profunda Cervicis. Profunda Cervicis J ascends between Complexus and Semisplnalis to Sub-oceipital Triangle, (to anastomose with Prineeps Cervicis from Occipital and Muscular twigs from Vertebral (sec Diagram). There are thus three Arteries in the Neck which pass up parallel to the Transvei-se Processes, viz., the Ascending Cervical in front of the Processes, the Deep Cervical behind them (separated by Muscles), and the Vertebral within them. The three corresponding Veins unite at the lower jiart of the Neck to enter the Subclavian as the Vertebral Vein. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. ( the_/?r.s< (Sup. Thyroid), —structures connected with the Larynx, The Four Anterior Branches (see p, 133) supply - Jl;3f' " '"'h'"'" ^^'^^^T"" ^ j » I'lird (tacial) ,— „ m the supcrhcuil parts oi the 1<ace, ' ,, fourth (Int. Maxillary),— ,, ,, deep ,, ,, ,, * * In addition each Vessel gives offsets to structures connected with tlie Pliarynx. Superior Thyroid ( arises ,?i/.9< helow Great Cornu of Hyoid Bone, and running downwards by side of Thyroid Cartilage ( ends in the upper and anterior ^lart of the Thyroid Body, giving t\\'igs also to the Inf. Constrictor of the Pharynx. Artery Lingual Artery f (1) Hyoid .and (2) Crico-tliyroid lying transversely on Thyro-hyoid and Crico-thyroid Membranes respectively. t (3) Sup. Laryngeal accompanying Sup. Laryngeal Nerve to Larynx, & (4) Sterno-niastoid crossing Carotid Sheath to Sterno-mastoid. arises ojjposite Great Cornu of Hyoid Bone, and passes in its 1st part upwards and forwards, in its 2nd forwards, in its 3rd upwards and forwards. [Genio-hj'O-glossus. lies in its 1st part superficially, in its 2nd between Hyo-glossus and Middle Constrictor, in its 3rd on outer surface of Branch(s Its course is parallel to that of the Faci;il xVrtcry on the Face. f(l) Hyoid, Iransrcrse, along upper border of Hyoid Bone. (2) Dorsal of Tongue, vertical, beneath I and Tonsil." . I (4) Banine, ?0Hji(<!i?i«n/ ,, under surface of Tongue, parallel (3) Sublingual ,, superfcial to L to FrKUum. Gland and Mucous Membrane. * See ' Arteries of Pharynx.' Hyo-glo>sus, to Tongue „ S\Lbliug. 18—2