02 Ligaments of Knee-Joint—continued. Semilunar Cartilages ( attached on opposite sides of Spine of Tibia. External, —nearly circular •! connected antertorli/ with Internal Semilunar Cartilage by Transverse Ligament. ( „ posterloiiij ,, Posterior Crucial Ligament by a single or double band. Internal, -semicircular ( attached anterioiiij to Tibia in front of origin of Anterior Crucial Ligament. \ ,, posteriorly ,, „ ,, „ ,, Posterior ,, ,, Both Cartilages are connected laterally with the margins of Head of Tibia by Coronary Ligaments. ( Suprapatellar Pad under Extensor Tendon. THE FAT round the Patellais dividedinto < Infrapatellar ,, ,, Patellar Ligament, prolonged beyond margins of Patella, chiefly on ( inner side. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE f lines Capsule and subjacent Fat and is prolonged into six pouches. I beneath Tendon of Quadriceps Extensor above and in front. I ,, Aponeuroses of Vasti laterally. 1 ,, Heads of Gastrocnemius above and behind. ! ,, Tendon of Popliteus below and externally. [^investi also Semilunar Cartilages and Crucial Ligaments. A fold of synovial membrane reflected from over Infrapatellar Pad, round a small vessel to the front of the Intercondyloid Notch, Folds of synovial membrane extending transversely, one inwards and one outwards, over the Infrapatellar Pad beyond margins of Patella. The Internal is the larger. ( Flexion and Extension are the chief movements. Towards the end of Extension tliere is Rotation out,in consequence of theCnrve of the Articular surf, of Int. Condyle. In Semiflexion, Rotation in and out are allowed in consequence of relaxation of Ligaments. The Patella, during Flexion, is sunk in the Intercondyloid Notch, on the lower and outer part of the Joint ; during MOVEMENTS -I Extension it moves upwards and inwards, becoming prominent above the articular surface of Femur. I The Crucial Ligaments limit flexion and extension, and prevent displacement forwards and backwards. The Anterior Crucial Ligament limits Rotation in. The Internal Lateral „ ,, „ out. All the Ligaments, except the Anterior, are made tense in Extension. The Semilunar Cartilages follow the Tibia, moving forwards in Extension, backwards in Flexion. Ligamcntum Muco3um Alar Ligaments (3)