225 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continu ed. saucepan, put in the Pork, pour in sufficient water to cover it, anti place it over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, drain the Pork and press it between two plates until cold. Remove the binding from the Pork, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Stewed Pickled Pork and Tomatoes.—Put lib. of salted Pork into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped onions and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of tinned tomatoes, season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of powdered mace and nutmeg, and add 1 table-spoonful of sugar and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents at the side of the fire for nearly two hours. When cooked, stir 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb in with the stew, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. PORRIDGE.—A food made by boiling meal in water or milk. See Cornflour, Oatmeal, &c. PORT.—A dark red or purple wine, made in the locality of Oporto, hence its name. Most authorities speak very highly of Port wine, which is generally full- flavoured, fine coloured, 'invigorating, and wholesome. Unfortunately, a good deal of the wine which is sold as Port in this country is little better than imitation. See Wines. Imitation Port Wine.—(1) German cherry juice, 15galls. ; rectified spirits of wine, lOgalls.; pure water, lOgalls.; syrup, 4galls.; tincture of krameria, 1 pint; and port wine (cenanthic ether), 2oz. Thoroughly blended, this is a very useful liquor for cooking; but not recommended where the real thing is at command. (2) For making this wine a mash-tub with a wooden tap at the bottom should be employed. Chop up into lin. lengths 14lb. of autumn rhubarb, bruise it with a wooden mallet, put it into the mash-tub, which should be perfectly clean, then add lgall. each of mashed bilberries and elder- berries ; pour over all 4|galls. of boiling water, cover the tub with a thin cloth, and leave it to ferment. In about five days’ time there will be a crust formed on the top ; then carefully draw off the liquor, taking special care not to break the crust, pour it into a cask, and add 31b. of brown cane sugar to each gallon. Keep back out of the cask lgall. of the liquor to fill up the cask when the after fermentation has ceased, which will be in seven or eight days’ time. Put 2oz. of gelatine into a little of the liquor to soak, then add to it 1 pint more of the liquor, made hot, let it get cold, pour it into the cask, bung up securely, and in four or five months’ time the wine will be fit for use. (3) Pour igall. of elderflower wine into a cask, and add an equal quantity of strained elderberry juice at I70deg. Fahr. In these infuse |oz. of red sanders wood, and dis- solve |oz. of alum and loz. of citric acid. Then pour over ogalls. of sweet cider and 1 |lb. of sugar, 1 tumbler- ful of gin, and lastly loz. of gelatine dissolved as in No. 2. Bung up securely, and use in about six weeks’ tune. Port-Wine Jelly.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass and loz. of gum Arabic in a basin with 1 pint of Port wine, and cover it with a plate. Leave it until the following morning, then turn it into a lined saucepan, mix with it 2oz. of brown sugar candy and a small piece of nutmeg, and simmer gently until the isinglass has dissolved. Strain the jelly through a fine hair sieve and pour it into a mould. When quite cold, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (2) Steep loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of Port wine for twelve hours. Then put it into a saucepan with 3oz. of sugar candy and boil it until the isinglass is dissolved. Rinse a mould out with cold water, then strain the jelly into it through a jelly-bag, and stand it in a cool place. Whip 1 pint of thick cream with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and a few drops of essence of vanilla. When quite cold and set, turn the jelly out of the mould on to a fancy dish, pour the cream round it, and serve. Port—continued. (3) Pour lqt. of calf’s-foot stock into a saucepan and add 1 teacupful of strained lemon-juice, the thin rind of a lemon, |lb. of crushed loaf sugar, and | pint of Port wine. Put the saucepan on the side of the fire and let the liquor simmer gently for five minutes, then add the whites of six eggs, whipped to a stiff froth, and simmer for a few minutes longer. Turn the mixture into a jelly- bag hung over a mould and strain it. Pack the mould in ice, and when the jelly is set and firm turn it out on a dish, and serve. Port-Wine Negus.—Pare the yellow rinds thinly off two oranges, put them in a jug with their strained juice and the juice of one lemon, pour over them 3qts. of boiling water and a bottle of Port wine. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and flavour with a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg. Strain the whole into a lined saucepan, place it over the fire until almost boiling, then back again into the jug, and serve without delay. Port-Wine Sauce.—(1) Pour 1 gill of Port wine into an earthenware jar, and add I wineglassful of melted red- currant jelly, 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of cayenne, and 1 teacupful of thick brown stock, or the same quantity of the drip- pings from meat, skimmed of all fat. Put the jar into a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil. Pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Pour 1 wineglassful of Port wine into a saucepan, and add the juice of half a lemon, a small quantity of cayenne, I table-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and three shallots cut in slices. Set the pan on the fire, boil gently for three minutes, strain the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (3) Make | pint of melted butter sauce, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of Port wine, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and boil it gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time, the sauce is ready for serving. PORTER.—This well-known beverage originated with a brewer named Harwood, who manufactured it as a compound suitable for the refreshment of the hard-work- ing London Porter. “The characteristics of pure and wholesome Porter,” says Corley, “ are its transparency, lively dark-brown colour, and its peculiar bitter and slightly burnt taste. Originally, these qualities were derived from the ‘ high- dried malt,’ with which alone it was brewed. It is now generally, if not entirely, made from ‘ pale ’ or ‘ amber malt,’ mixed with a sufficient quantity of ‘ patent ’ or ‘ roasted malt ’ to impart the necessary flavour and colour.” It is to be feared that a great deal of the Porter sold in retail beerhouses is little better than a vile concoction, composed of what is called Porter Extract, dissolved in the beer that runs down the waste-pipe. Porter Cup.—Pour lqt. of Porter into a basin and add l pint of sherry wine, a little nutmeg, and four thin slices of lemon. Cover the basin, pack it in ice, and when the mixture is very cold it is ready to serve round in pint cups. Porter Jelly.—(1) Boil a cow-heel in 5 pints of water until the liquor is reduced to 3 pints, and then strain it. When cold, skim the fat off the jelly, put it into a pan with the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sugar to taste. When on the point of boiling, mix with the jelly | pint of Porter and the white of one egg to clarify it. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a mould, and keep it in a cool place. Turn it on to a dish when ready to serve. This jelly is very nourishing. (2) Clean thoroughly and wash one cow-heel and two calf’s feet, put them into a saucepan with 5 pints of water, and boil them until the flesh separates from the bones; next strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a large bowl, stand it in a cold place, and leave it until the following day. Pour the stock into a saucepan with lib. VOL. II.