THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 363 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—continued. simmering gently until the fish is tender. When cooked remove the fish from the fire and leave it in the liquor until cool. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar with 6 table- spoonfuls of oil, and add moderate quantities of chopped chervil, sorrel, and chives. When ready lay the fish on a dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Salmon Cutlets.—Cut three slices of Salmon about fin. thick. Put them over a slow fire in cold water with a small quantity of vinegar and salt in it, and when the water comes to the boil they are sufficiently done. Serve them on a hot dish garnished with parsley (see Fig. 434). Boiled Salmon Garnished with Aspic Jelly.—Clean a Salmon, rub it inside anil out with salt, let it remain for about three hours, wash it well, and wipe dry. Stuff it with whiting or other fish forcemeat, tie it up to keep it in shape, put it into a fish-kettle with a mirepoix, pour in 2 pints of champagne and sufficient fish-stock to nearly cover it, bring the liquor to the boil, lay a piece of buttered paper over the fish, boil slowly for an hour, and let the fish get quite cold in the liquor. Take up the fish with the drainer, carefully remove all the skin, glaze it on one side with a light fish glaze mixed up with a little crayfish butter, put the fish on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, over which put a row of cooked crayfish, and then with a row of cooked carp’s roes; decorate the Salmon with attelettes in aspic jelly, themselves ornamented with crayfish-tails and carp’s roes, and serve cold with one sauceboat containing a white mayonnaise with aspic jelly and the other with lemon sauce. Boiled Salmon Garnished with Lobster.—Boil a Salmon in mirepoix for an hour. Drain the Salmon, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and arrange round it some lobster en coquilles and bunches of parsley. Serve with a sauceboatful of lobster sauce. Or they may be garnished round with orlys of trout and bunches of fried parsley, and served with Genevoise sauce. Boiled Salmon with Oyster Sauce.—Put 21b. of very fresh Salmon in a fish-kettle, completely cover with cold water, season with a handful of salt, add one medium- sized sliced onion, \ wineglassful of white vinegar, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two parsley-roots. Set the kettle over a brisk fire, and five minutes after coming to the boil the Salmon will be sufficiently cooked. Remove the fish from the kettle, drain it well, dress on a hot dish with a folded napkin, decorate with parsley greens all round the Salmon, and serve with 1 pint of hot oyster sauce in a sauceboat. The necessary time to cook the above to perfection, from beginning to end, will be thirty- five minutes. Colbert sauce and cold boiled potatoes, cut in quarters, may be substituted for the oyster sauce and parsley greens. Boiled Salmon Served with Montpellier Butter.—Cut a piece of Salmon about 6in. thick; clean it, cut a little of the bone out from each end, and fill the cavities with carrots. Bind the Salmon round with thin slices of fat bacon, and boil it gently in mirepoix till cooked. Drain the Salmon, and when cold remove the pieces of carrot and the skin; brush it over with fish glaze. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, coat it with Montpellier butter, and lay the Salmon gently on it. Cut a strip of firm Mont- pellier butter, about |in. thick and lin. wide, and put it round the Salmon, the edge resting on the rice socle, and Salmon—continued. place a smaller strip round the top of the Salmon. Garnish with croutons of chopped aspic fish jelly, and serve. Boiled Salted Salmon with Spinach.—Put a piece of salted Salmon in cold water, and let it remain for a day or more, according to the size. Drain the fish, put it in a stewpan with some cold water, and when boiling move the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for ten minutes. Put some boiled spinach on a hot dish, drain the Salmon, place it on the spinach, pour some butter sauce over it, and serve. Boiled Slices of Salmon with Piquant Sauce.—Cut five slices of Salmon, each fin. thick, from the middle of the fish, wash and dry them well, and put them in a sauce- pan of hot fish broth mixed with a little wine. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and let the contents simmer gently for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, take the slices of Salmon carefully out with a slice, wipe them on a cloth, and arrange them in an upright position on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish ; put a group of boiled potatoes at each side, a bunch of parsley at each end, and serve with a saueeboatful of piquant sauce. Boudins of Salmon.—(1) Remove the skin and bone from lib. of Salmon, reduce it to a pulp, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree lOoz. each of bread panada and crayfish butter, season the mixture with pepper and salt, and bind it with two well-beaten eggs and a little reduced veloute sauce Imaigre that has been thickened with egg. Mix an onion that has been fried white and cut into small pieces with the forcemeat. Cut some strips of paper 4in. by 24in., and butter them. Put a piece of forcemeat, 3jin. by lfin., and lfin. thick on each strip of paper. Make a hollow in the centre of each piece of forcemeat about fin. deep and fin. wide. Fill the hollows with a salpicon of cooked Salmon and truffles mixed in stiffly reduced German sauce, cover them with a little of the forcemeat, and wrap the paper round. Put the boudins in a saute-pan with a little stock, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour over them some German sauce thickened with crayfish butter, and serve. (2) Pick out all the bones and skin from some cold boiled Salmon, and divide the fish into small Hakes with a fork, then put it into a mortar and pound it. Allow an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, soak them in as much milk as they will absorb, then squeeze them as dry as possible; put them in with the Salmon with half their quantity of butter, and pound the whole together. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with beaten egg, using twice as many yolks as there are whites. Butter some small round moulds, fill them with the mixture, and stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts their height. Fig. 435. Boudins of Salmon. Steam them for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a hot dish, arrange them in a circle, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 435), and serve with Dutch sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Salmon.—(1) Cut some slices of Salmon from the tail, put them in a deep dish, cover with chopped parsley, laurel-leaves, and mixed herbs, season with salt and pepper, pour over some olive oil, and leave it to soak for an hour. Broil the slices of fish on a gridiron, basting them occasionally with some of the marinade. \\ hen nicely