234 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. cold, form it into small balls, dip them into hatter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them. Take them out when browned and floating, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve at once. Potatoes with Herring's.—Wash and boil 21b. of Potatoes in their skins, and drain them before they begin to break. Peel them and cut them in slices. Peel and slice two small onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until beginning to colour; next dredge them over with flour, pour in h teacupful of vinegar and about 1 teacupful of water, add one bay-leaf, salt and pepper to taste, and simmer at the side of the fire. Wash a couple of Dutch herrings, bone them, cut the flesh into small pieces, put them into the sauce, and let them simmer for a few minutes longer; next put in the Potatoes, with 1 teacupful of milk and loz. of butter, and stir the whole gently over the fire until very hot. In the preparation of this dish care should be taken not to break the slices of Potatoes. When ready, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Potato Klosse.—(1) Warm 6oz. of butter and beat it until creamy, then beat in with it six yolks of eggs and three whites; mix with them 1 teacupful of grated breadcrumb, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, h' saltspoonful of salt, and sugar to taste; next work in smoothly sufficient Potato flour to mix the whole into a stilt' mass. Divide into equal quantities, mould them into round balls, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the klosse and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, drain them well on a piece of paper in front of the fire. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental | dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the balls on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Peel and boil lib. of Potatoes, and when tender (they must not be too soft or broken) drain them, leave ! until cold, and then grate them. Warm 4oz. of butter, j beat it until creamy, and then stir in three well-beaten eggs. Mix the eggs and butter with the Potatoes, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir them with a wooden spoon until well mixed. Shape the mixture into small balls, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently for ten minutes. Serve the Potatoes with meat as a garnish, or with soup. (3) Mix with fib. of mashed Potatoes lib. of bread that has been soaked in milk, add a few finely-minced chives and 1 table-spoonful of Hour, season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir in three well-beaten eggs. Work the mixture until quite smooth, then divide I it into equal quantities with a table-spoon, leaving the mark of the spoon on each. Throw the balls into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for ten minutes. Cut two or three rashers of bacon into small pieces, and fry them until crisp and brown. Put the Potato-balls on a hot dish, garnish them with crisp pieces of bacon, pour the fat over them, and serve while very hot. (4) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then mix with it the beaten yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two. Mix in with the eggs 1 teacupful of grated bread, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, sugar to taste, and sufficient Potato-Hour to form a rather stiff paste. Work the mixture well, divide it into moderate-sized portions, and roll them round. Dip the balls in beaten egg, and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them till of a golden brown. Drain them, arrange them in a group on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, strew caster sugar over them, and serve. Potato Loaf or Pain.—Use some cold boiled Potatoes, with the remains of any kind of cold green vegetable, such as cabbage, &c. Mash the Potatoes, chop the vege- tables, mix them together, and season to taste. Put the mixture into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and stir it over the fire until hot through. Butter a mould, press the mixture well into it, and put it in a brisk oven till Potatoes—continued. nicely browned on the top. When ready, turn the loaf on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while very hot. Potato Nests.—Select some large equal-sized Potatoes, wash them, and bake them in the oven. When tender, cut a slice off the top of each, and carefully scoop out some of the interior. Rub the Potato that is scooped out through a fine sieve, and mix in with it loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of cream, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the whole into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire. M hen hot, move it to the side, and stir in the beaten whites of one or two eggs. Fill the Potato-skins with this mixture, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed Fig. 297. Potato Nests. butter. Spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, put the Potatoes on it, the cut part upwards, garnish them with fried parsley (see Jig. 297), and serve. Potato Nudels.—Grate about 21b. of firm cold boiled Potatoes, and beat them up with four eggs, 1 teacupful of milk, and a small quantity of salt; then dredge in a sufficient quantity of flour to form a stiffish dough. Lay this on a floured paste board, roll it out rather thin, and with a small tin cutter cut it into round cakes. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put the cakes into it, and boil them for five minutes. Next drain the nudels thoroughly, and diy them on a clean cloth. Put a^ large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the nudels and fry them till lightly browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Potato Omelet. (1) Peel and boil three or four large Potatoes, and when soft, drain and mash them. Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, mix them with the Potatoes, and flavour to taste with herbs, salt, and a small quantity of pepper. Cut 4oz. of lean bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until crisp and brown, then mix in the Potatoes, and stir them over the fire until set. M hen nicely browned on both sides, fold the omelet over, slip it on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Grate sufficient boiled floury Potatoes to fill a teacup, beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir them in with the Potato, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and any kind of herbs liked. Put 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of finely-minced ham into a frying pan, and fry them for a few minutes. Then put in a piece of butter, about loz., and when it has melted put in the Potato mixture, and stir continually until it has set. Then leave the omelet to brown. M’lien ready, double it over, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it, and serve. Fotato-and-Onion Salad.—Peel and boil the required quantity of Spanish onions and large Potatoes, but do not cook them too much ; drain them well, and leave them until cold. Cut the vegetables into slices, and put them in a dish that has been rubbed lightly over with garlic. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with salad-oil and vinegar, the former predominating, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the vegetables. Arrange a border of quarters of hard-boiled eggs and pickled cabbage round the dish, strew in the centre some chopped olives, capers, and powdered sweet herbs, and serve with as little delay as possible.