266 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Foi details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under tlteir special heads. Puddings—continued. colour. Put the Puddings on a dish, and serve with a little white wine sauce poured over them. Palm-tree Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan and add 2oz. each of crushed loaf sugar and flour; work them over the fire for three or four minutes, then turn out into a dish to cool. Cut the mixture into small diamond-shaped pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them; then take them out and arrange them on a dish. In the meantime put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 4oz. of sugar and one well-whisked egg, set the pan over a very slack fire, and let it remain, skimming frequently, until the sides of the pan have a slight coating of it. Remove the pan from the fire, and as soon as the mixture is cool, pour it, together with the juice of two lemons, over the pieces of Pudding, and serve. Pembroke Pudding.—Finely chop 2oz. of beef-suet, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and 1 pint of milk. Season the mixture with spices or lemon-peel, turn it into a pic- dish, and bake for half-an-hour. Serve hot with jam. Penelope Pudding.—Beat the whites of eight eggs to a still froth, sifting in gradually at the same time Jib. of caster sugar. Mix 4oz. of flour with 1 pint of milk, flavour it with sherry or essence of vanilla, then mix in the whites of eggs, and beat all together for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a shallow basin, stand it in a quick oven, and bake well. Decorate the Pudding when cold with chocolate icing, and serve. Peripatetic Pudding.—Break six penny sponge cakes into a basin, and mix wit h t hem 1 breakfast-cupful of marmalade and 2 wineglassfuls of any kind of sweet wine. Slightly warm 4,1b. of fresh butter and beat it well with Jib. of caster sugar; then beat in, one at a time, six eggs. Pour the beaten mixture over the other ingredients and beat the whole well together. Line a tin mould with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Polka Pudding.—(1) Beat 4 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and mix in four well-whisked eggs and 3oz. of butter pulled into very small pieces. Blanch and pound 3oz. of bitter almonds, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water to prevent them from oiling. Add the almonds and 1 pint of boiling milk to the arrowroot mixture, stirring briskly until the whole is quite thick; put it into a plain or fancy mould packed in ice, let it set until it is quite firm, turn out on to a dish, and serve with rich sweet sauce poured over. Three table-spoonfuls of cream may be substituted for the 3oz. of butter if desired. (2) Bake a sponge-cake mixture in the mould that is intended for the Pudding, turn it out, and with a sharp knife cut off the bottom about Jin. in thickness. Put the cake back in the mould and cut out as much of the inside as possible, leaving the same thickness as the bottom slice, and taking care not to injure the outside. Put a layer of orange-flower water or vanilla cream ice at the bottom, next one of apricot jam, and so on until the cake is quite full. Replace the bottom or lid, and put a sheet of tin over the top of the mould to prevent the ice from melting. Pack the mould in ice, let it remain for a short time, pour a little warm brandy round a dish, turn the Pudding out of the mould in the centre of it, pour over a little more of the brandy, and serve immediately. Poor Man’s Pudding.—Cut a roll into thin slices, leaving the crust on; pour over them 1 pint of milk mixed with two beaten eggs and a small quantity of sugar and grated nutmeg. Let the slices soak in this custard for an hour, pour it off, and let them drain for an hour; then fry them brown, and serve hot with wine sauce. Porcupine Pudding.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, put it into a saucepan with some new milk, and boil until tender. If the rice becomes too dry, add more milk to it. When cooked, move the rice to the side of the fire and stir in four well-beaten eggs, the grated peel of half a Puddings—cont inucd. lemon, and sugar to taste. Beat the whole until well mixed, then turn it into a buttered mould and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and boil for an-hour-and-a-half. Blanch and peel jib. of sweet almonds, and cut them into long shreds. Turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, stick the almonds all over it, and serve. A rich custard poured round the Pudding is a great improvement. It may also be served cold. Portland Pudding.—Beat fib. of fresh butter with fib. of powdered white sugar till it is like cream, then add nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, ami mix in by degrees fib. of flour and 2oz. of candied peel cut small. Beat all together for ten minutes, pour the Pudding into small tins, and bake. Portugal Pudding.—Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it is warm add 3 table-spoonfuls of ground rice and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream ; stir well until it boils, then remove the pan to the side of the fire. When the mixture is cool, add the whites of four eggs and the yolks of six, also 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar. (1 table- spoonful of arrowroot worked to a smooth paste with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream in a saucepan, fib. of butter, and 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and the whole boiled for a short time, may be used as a substitute for the ground rice and cream if desired.) Pour the mixture into a well-buttered basin, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour; then take it out, turn it upside-down on a dish, put a thick layer of apricot or any jam on the top, and serve. Princess Pudding.—Put 2oz. of French gelatine into a large basin with 1 pint of cold soft water, and let it soak for an hour or a little longer; then pour over 1 pint of boiling water, stir it in well, and whilst doing so add 3 breakfast- cupfuls of moist sugar, the strained juice of four lemons, and 1 pint of Madeira or Malaga wine. Pour the mixture into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to thicken add the whites of four eggs which have been previously beaten to a stiff froth. Turn the whole into a princess mould (see Fig. 325) packed in ice, and when it is set and firm turn it out on to a dish and serve with ]qt. of rich custard poured round it. The dish may afterwards be garnished with crystallised fruits, macaroons, ratafias, or other sweet fancy biscuits. Pudding a la Cleveland.—Boil in a saucepan J pint of milk with a quarter of a vanilla bean. Put in a vessel Jib. of powdered sugar and the yolks of three eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add them to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, pour the whole into a copper basin, and place it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, continually stirring at the bottom with the spatula and being careful not to let it boil. Remove the vessel from the fire, place it on a table, add imme- diately J pint of sweet cream, mixing for two minutes more, then let the mixture cool for thirty minutes; strain through a sieve into a freezer, and freeze; when frozen let it rest. Put the yolks of three eggs into a copper basin with loz. of powdered sugar, J gill of maraschino, and J gill of kirschenwasser, and with a whisk beat well together for two minutes. Place the basin on the hot stove and stir briskly with the whisk for five minutes. Remove it from the fire, immediately put the basin in a vessel containing ice-water, and stir continually for two minutes more. Add f pint of whipped vanilla cream and mix well with the rest for three minutes. Cover the basin, and let it rest also. Have ready Jib. of candied chestnuts and break them into pieces on a plate. Take a 3-pint melon-mould, arrange the vanilla cream round, dividing it evenly and filling up with alternate layers of the biscuit preparation and the candied chestnuts; cover the mould tightly, and place it in a pail having broken ice mixed Fig. 325. Princess Mould (Temple and Crook).