2 93 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. Rabbit Broth.—Skin and clean a young Rabbit, disjoint it, put it into a saucepan with some veal or beef bones, a few onions and carrots, a sprig or two of parsley, a small quantity of salt, and a good supply of water. Place the saucepan on the fire, and boil for live or six hours, skimming frequently as soon as it boils. When done, strain the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve. If preferred, the meat of the Rabbit as well as the vegetables may be left in the soup. Rabbit Collops served in a Border.—Skin and clean half-a-dozen young Rabbits, cut off the fillets, and trim the twelve larger ones into collops; put them into a saute- pan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, place a little more butter on the top of each, and toss them over a clear fire until done. Trim the twelve small or minion fdlets, stick a small piece of truffle on the thick end of each, making it adhere by means of white of egg, curve them, put them into a saute-pan with a small quantity of butter, and cook them also. Well butter a plain border-mould, fdl it with Rabbit forcemeat, put it into a saucepan of boiling water or in the bain- marie over the fire, and let it remain until the forcemeat is poached. Turn it out on to a dish, glaze it, and put the small fillets on it. Mix the collops with a little Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit, put them in the centre of the border, and serve with Spanish sauce in a sauceboat. Rabbit Cream.—Skin and clean a Rabbit, cut off all the meat from the bones, mince it, and pound it in a mortar. Rub it through a fine sieve into a basin, sprinkle it over with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and pour in a little sweet cream. Rub the inside of a casserole shape or mould with butter, put the mixture in it, having orna- mented the sides of the shape or mould with slices of truffles cut in various shapes, put a piece of paper on the top, cover and tie this over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water. Cover over the pan, set it on the side of the fire, and keep the water hot without boiling for about two hours, by which time the preparation should be steamed and cooked. Turn it out on to a dish, fill the centre with cooked peas, asparagus points, or mush- rooms, pour round bechamel or mushroom sauce, and serve. Rabbit Croquettes. —Cut off the flesh from the legs and back of a Rabbit, remove all the skin ami gristle, mix in an equal bulk both of truffles and mushrooms, and cut the whole up into small pieces; pour over some thick Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit, and mix well. Put the mince on to a hoard or table well sprinkled with sifted breadcrumbs, divide it into as many equal- sized parts as wanted, roll them up into balls or cork shapes, dip them into egg well-beaten with oil, salt, and pepper, cover them with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a light brown. Take them out, drain, dust over with salt, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with tomato, poivrade, or other sauce in a sauceboat. Rabbit Cutlets.—(1) Cut off the hind-legs of four young Rabbits, remove the bones without opening the legs, stuff up the holes with seasoning and a little veal, bacon, ham, and sweet herbs, and sew them up into the shape of little hams, with the thin end bone put at the top for a mock cutlet bone; dust over with salt and pepper, put them into a flat stewpan with a little butter, and braise well on both sides. Turn them out, on a board with another one on the top, and let them cool. Trim them to the shape of cutlets, dip them into egg, then into breadcrumbs, put them .again into a flat stewpan, and brown them to a nice colour on both sides. Put a paper ruffle round the bones, dish the cutlets in a circle, mask them with piquant or eolbert sauce, and serve very hot. (2) Skin, clean, and cut off the fillets of three Rabbits, cut each fillet again in halves, trim them to the shape of cutlets, and insert a small rib bone in the thin ends. Rip the cutlets into egg, breadcrumb them well, put them into a frying-pan with oil, and fry to a light brown When cooked, place the cutlets on a border of mashed Rabbits—continued. potatoes on a hot dish, arrange more of the mashed potatoes in a pyramid in the centre, put a circle of cooked carrots and turnips alternately round it, pour over the whole some reduced brown sauce, and serve. (3) Cut off the hind-legs of four young Rabbits, bone them without opening, and stuff them with highly- seasoned forcemeat; tie them round with thread to the shape of small hams, put them in a flat saucepan with a little butter, and cook gently on both sides. Take them out, put them under a slight weight, and let them cool. Trim them to the shape of cutlets, insert the thin leg bone at the points of each, dip them into egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry them a light colour in a little butter. Take them out when done, drain, put a small paper ruffle on the bones, arrange them in a circle on a dish, and serve with eolbert or piquant sauce poured over or round them. Rabbit Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Chop off the hind- legs of two or three Rabbits, bone and trim them to the shape of cutlets, cover them over with Rabbit force- meat mixed with sweet herbs and breadcrumbs, put a small bone in the thin ends to give them the appearance of cutlets, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and warm them. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish or board with a weight on the top to flatten, and let them get quite cold; then trim them round, dip them in egg, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until done to a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, pour over thin tomato sauce, and serve very hot. Rabbit Dumplings.—Bone a Rabbit, cut the meat into small nice-shaped pieces, nib them well with lemon-juice, then roll them in a mixture of finely-chopped herbs and shallots seasoned with white pepper. Wrap each piece of meat in a good pudding crust, fastening it securely so that the juice may not escape, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for an hour. Mean- while, make some nice well-flavoured sauce with t he bones and trimmings of the Rabbit, and when strained squeeze the fig. 34o. Rabbit Dumplings. juice of a lemon in it. Drain the dumplings well when cooked, place them on a hot dish, and serve at once with the sauce in a sauceboat, and a little poured over each and round the dish. See Fig. 345. Rabbit Entree.—Skin and clean a couple of Rabbits, cut them into joints, put them inco a saucepan with milk, add a seasoning of shallot, peppercorns, cloves, &c., but no salt, and stew slowly until they are quite tender. Take them out and keep them hot; strain the liquor into another pan, thicken with cornflour, sprinkle in salt to taste, put back the pieces of Rabbit, and keep them warm. Put .jib. of macaroni on to stew in rich brown stock. Place the pieces of Rabbit on a hot dish; add the yolk of an egg to the liquor, pour it over, garnish with the macaroni and some blanched parsley, and pour over a little rich stock. Rabbit Forcemeat Cakes. —Cut off all the flesh from three young Rabbits, and chop it up small. Take an equal Aveiglit of fat bacon, cut it up also, put it into a saute-pan over a clear fire, melt it, and add the pieces of Rabbit and a seasoning of thyme, bay-leaf, parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Stir Avell, and cook for a few minutes; then turn the whole into a mortar, and pound it well, adding half the bulk of bread panada. When well pounded, rub the ivliole through a fine sieve into a basin, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce reduced with essence of Rabbit and three eggs. Mix thoroughly, anil add two