TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 276 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Punch—-continued. almonds, and as much icing sugar as it will absorb, and work the mixture into a rather stiff paste. Prepare a royal icing by working together the beaten whites of two eggs, 1 wineglassful of rum, loz. of lemon sugar, tiie strained juice of a lemon, and sufficient icing sugar to make an ordinarily stiff-bodied yet somewhat liquid royal icing. Dredge some caster sugar over a sheet of paper, fill a biscuit-forcer, having Jin. tube at the end of it, with the gum mixture, and press the mixture out on to the sheet of paper, cutting it off with a knife held in the other hand into tin. lengths. Stand the paper of sweets on a baking-plate, and put them in a screen for ten minutes to dry their surfaces. Take the bonbons up, one at a time, on the tip of a fork, and dip them in the second mixture of royal icing, placing them out of hand on a closely- latticed wire tray; as each tray is filled, set them in the screen and dry them for ten minutes longer. To keep the bonbons, pack them away in cardboard boxes, between sheets of white paper. Punch Cream Ice.—Make about | teacupful of strong green tea, strain it when cold, mix with it 1 pint of thick cream, and add 2 wineglassfuls of rum and the strained juice of a small lemon. Sweeten the cream to taste, 'pour it into a freezing-pot, work it until frozen, then pack it in a mould and bury it in pounded ice and salt for an hour. When ready to serve, the mould must be dipped into hot water, quickly wiped, and then turned out on to a fancy dish. Punch Drops.—Mix fib. of crushed loaf sugar to a stiff' paste with rum and lemon-juice. Put the paste in a sugar-boiler, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Let the mixture fall slowly in drops on to a baking-sheet. When cold, dry the drops in a screen of moderate heat. Punch Jelly.—(1) Clarify 2oz. of gelatine with the juice of four lemons, fib. of caster sugar, 2| pints of water, and the peel of half a lemon. Add f pint of rum to the jelly when it is hot. Pour it into a plain cylinder-mould, pack it in ice, cover with a baking-sheet with ice on the top, and let it stand for two hours. Turn it on to a dish, and serve. (2) Cut two calf’s feet into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and place them over the fire. When the water boils throw it away, wash the feet well, return them to the saucepan with 2qts. of fresh cold water, and boil gently for three hours, keeping the liquor well skimmed. At the end of that time strain the the liquor into a basin, leave it until cold, then remove the fat, and wash the top carefully over with a flannel dipped in hot water, so that no fat remains. Turn the jeily into a saucepan, removing any sediment that may have settled at the bottom, and melt it. Mix with the jelly a small quantity of very strong green tea, the juice of a lemon, also the thinly-pared rind, sugar to taste, and the well-whisked whites of three eggs. Beat the whole over the fire until boiling, and flavour to taste with old rum. Put the peel of half a lemon in the jelly-bag and pour the jelly over it; if not quite clear the jelly should be strained again. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the jelly, and stand it on ice or in a very cold place until firmly set. When ready to serve the jelly, dip tiie mould into hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, and turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. Punch Souffle.—Pound 4oz. of ratafias and mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 3oz. of flour; beat the yolks of ten eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients. Butter a plain oval mould, tie a strip of buttered paper round the top, and sprinkle breadcrumbs over the inside. Whip the whites of ten eggs to a stiff' froth, stir them in with the mixture, and turn all into the mould. Bake the souffle for half an-hour. Turn the souffle out of the mould, pour a custard flavoured with essence of Punch round it, and serve. Punch Water-Ice.—Make 1 pint of syrup, and mix with it the grated peel of two lemons; boil it for two or three minutes longer, then mix in t pint each of lemon-juice and water. Pour the mixture into a jug and leave it for two or three hours; at the end of that time strain it Punch—continued. through a fine hair sieve, mix with it 1 wineglassful each of brandy and rum, and pour it into a freezing-pot. Work the mixture until frozen, then pack it into either a plain or fancy-shaped mould, close it well, and pack in ice and salt for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the ice out on to a dish. PUNCHEON.—A cask holding sometimes 72 galls., and sometimes 120 galls., according to its use; the form r is applied to Beer measure, and the latter to Scotch whisky. FUNSHKI.—This is the name given to tasty Russian patties held in great esteem amongst the Russian nobility and wealthy classes. They are prepared for the table of the Czar as follows : Fry a chopped onion in a little butter with a sliced minion fillet of veal; season, remove it from the fire, and leave till cool. Mix with the onion and meat two or three chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 pinch of parsley, and a little reduced sauce. Prepare 1 Jib. of coulibiac paste, roll it out thin, and cut out of it thirty-six rounds with a plain tin cutter l|in. in diameter; damp them slightly, put a small quantity of the mixture on half of them, and cover with the remaining half. Press the patties round the edges, and cut them with a larger cutter; place them on a floured cloth and let them rise. ' Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling plunge the Patties in and fry them till nicely browned. Drain and arrange the Patties on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. PURGES. —Kettner informs us that the word Puree is a corruption of poivree, signifying peppery. In modern times it is supposed to be something purified by being passed through a sieve or tammy. Kettner further observes that one of the leading points of difference between English and French cookery turns on the greater carefulness of the latter in making a Puree. It is not a question of skill, it is wholly one of good faith. The English cook is content with slovenly work, hence mashed potatoes full of lumps, and spinach full of strings, and ''i /' t I . Fig. 330. Sieve and Pestle fob Making Purees. coarse. The English cook shirks the labour of the sieve. If the thing is worth doing, it is worth doing well, and it must be repeated that the result depends not upon skill, but upon honesty. It is the honesty of their work, as much as anything else, that gives French cooks their superiority in dressed vegetables. Kettner evidently