TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 426 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under tlieir special heads. Serviettes—continued. Flower-pot.—Fold the napkin almost in half, leaving an edge of about ‘2in. from the top on the under side. Then fold from the bottom over to within ljin. from tbe lower edge of the napkin, and again fold it over from the bottom to within lin. of the former fold, as in b ig. 522; then fold over the top of the napkin till it almost meets the first ridge. Now lay it in small kilts, all one way, holding it tightly in the hand ; turn up the little spaces between the pleats into small points as in the “Accordion Fan” (see Plate “Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1); do the other three ridges in the same way, only turning the points downwards; then stand the Serviette on the table, round, like a flower pot, as shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes, ” No. 2. This shape takes so long to do, that, if required for a dinner party, it will be necessary to commence folding very early. This style is very much in vogue for wedding breakfasts, and is therefore some- times called the “ Bridal ”; it is often ornamented with flowers. If placed in a glass, and tightened at the bottom and spread out at the top, it forms a very pretty fan. Fountain.—Fold the Serviette like a half handkerchief, having the two single points towards you; fold back one of these points about llin., turn over the Serviette, and fold back the second point also llin., forming Fig. 523. Pleat the Serviette firmly from end to end, hold the lower edge with the right hand, and draw down the inner folds of the five or six pleats at either end with the left hand; place the ends of the centre pleats in a wineglass, and let two pleats at either end hang down at the sides (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Serviettes—continued. Four Pockets.—The Serviette must be quite square; if it should happen to be longer one way the extra length can he folded in. Have it open on the table and fold the four corners to the centre, creasing the folds well; again fold the corners into the middle and press the folds. Turn over the Serviette, and once more fold the corners into the centre (see Fig. 524). Again, turn over the Serviette and fold B Fig. 524a. back the centre points towards the corners, as in Fig. 524a ; these folded-back corners are the outsides of the pockets. Crease the Serviette from side to side, by folding it from A to A, and afterwards from B to B, keeping the pocket side always on the outside. These creases are simply to permit the Serviette to fall into its proper form when the