367 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Salmon—■continued. sauce, put a layer of the fish upon it, then more sauce, and another layer of fish, finishing with the sauce. Sprinkle over it some breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven till the contents are hot through, then brown it under a sala- mander, and serve while very hot. (3) Cut the Salmon into slices about lin. thick, and dust them over on both sides with salt and pepper; lay them in a buttered baking-tin, put a few pieces of butter on the top, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, anil bake for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time take the Salmon out, lay it on a hot dish, and pour the butter from the tin over it. Cover the slices with finely-grated Parmesan cheese and baked breadcrumbs, brown the top over with a red hot salamander, and serve while very hot on the same dish. Salmon a l’ltalienne.—Pour about U pints of fresh oil into a stewpan and mix with it a few cloves, coriander-seeds, cardamoms, two or three dried bay-leaves, and a small piece of mace; stew the whole gently in a slow oven until the oil is well flavoured with the spices, then take it out, and let it get nearly cold. Lay a nice Salmon steak in a baking-dish, strain the oil over it, seeing that it covers the fish, put it in a slow oven, and cook for about three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, leave it till quite cold, then move it carefully on to a round dish; pour the oil over it, garnish with a salad of dandelions, lettuces, &c., and serve. Salmon a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Squeeze a little lemon-juice over some slices of Salmon, and leave them for a short time. When ready, cover each slice with chopped fennel and parsley, put the fish in a saucepan, cover it with fish broth that has been thickened with flour and butter, and let it simmer gently till cooked. Put the Salmon on a hot dish, and serve it with maitre-d'hotel sauce. Salmon en Matelote.—Wash and truss a small Salmon like the letter S, and boil it in salted water. When cooked, drain it, put it on a hot dish, bend some legs of Lobster at the joints, and stick the ends in the hack of the Salmon, from head to tail. Have ready the following sauce: Put 6 table-spoonfuis of butter in H breakfast- cupfuls of butter sauce, stir it over the fire till hot, then mix in quickly two eggs that have been beaten with a little lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour the sauce over the fish, garnish it with small strips of fillets of sole that have heen dipped in beaten egg and bread- crumbs and fried, and serve. Salmon a la Montpelier.—Cut about 81b. from the middle of a large Salmon, put it into a braising-pan with a few sliced carrots and onions, Jib. of butter, a bunch of thyme, basil, and five or six bay-leaves, 3qts. of stock, 2qts. of water, and 4 bottle of chablis. Put the pan over the fire until the liquor begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently for an hour. Blanch in equal quantities some chives and parsley, put them in a mortar with one or two boned anchovies, and pound them together with 4oz. of butter and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When quite smooth put the mixture on a plate, and set it on ice. When the Salmon is cooked, leave it in the liquor until cold, then drain it, and spread the above mixture over on both sides. Lay it on an oval dish, decorate it with lobster spawn, garnish the <lish with truffles, parsley, chopped whites of eggs, and croutons of aspic jelly; fill up the cavity in the body of the Salmon with parsley (see Fig. 437), and serve. Salmon—continued. Salmon d la Vatel.—Cut two slices out of the centre of a Salmon, wash them, and boil them in court bouillon and white wine. When cooked, leave the fish to cool in its cooking-liquor, then drain and wipe them on a towel. Prepare an oval-shaped pain-vert, and fix it on an oval- shaped bread stem that has been masked with fat anil cut up slantwise at each extremity; lean the two slices of Salmon against them, supporting them at the top with two silver skewers that have been garnished with cray- fish ; glaze them with reddened aspic jelly, surround with chopped jelly squeezed through a cornet, and garnish the intervals on both sides with a small group of crayfish and some parsley. Place the pain-vert on a stand moulded in fat, surround the base with croutons of jelly, and fix on the centre of the piece above the stem a subject modelled in fat, representing Vatel, a celebrated chef. Salmon with. Aspic Jelly.—Singe and cut into halves lengthwise two calfs’ feet, bone them, put them in a saucepan with some water, and boil gently over a slow fire. Pass the liquor of the feet through a fine hair sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, and leave it to settle. Boil a thick slice of Salmon in some court bouillon and wine, and when cooked leave it till cold in its cooking-liquor. Put half of the calf’s-feet liquor into a saucepan with an equal quantity of the cooking-liquor of the Salmon, add some chopped vegetables, a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, h table-spoonful of cloves and peppercorns, 2 teacupfuls of vinegar, 4 teacupful of water, and three well-beaten whites of eggs. Stir the above mixture over the fire till it commences to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer till the jelly is clear. Strain the jelly through a jelly-bag into a basin, and leave it till cold. Put the slices of Salmon in a deep dish, distribute the jelly over it, piling it in the centre, and keep it in a cold temperature for twenty-four hours. Garnish with jelly croutons, hard-boiled eggs cut in halves and yolks (see Fig. 438). Salmon Bouchees.—Prepare some bouchee cases, and fill them with a paste made of pounded cold Salmon, seasoned, and moistened with lobster sauce. Salmon Cake.—(1) Large.—Steep |lb. of sifted breadcrumbs in \ pint of hot cream for ten minutes. Put 41b. of cold boiled Salmon and loz. of butter into a saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn the Salmon and soaked bread- crumbs into a mortar and pound them to a smooth paste, adding 1 saltspoonful of salt, 4 saltspoonful of pepper, and a very little powdered mace; mix into it, when pounded quite smooth, two well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a buttered mould and bake for twenty minutes. Turn it out on a dish, and serve garnished with crayfish or prawns. (2) Small.—Free some cold boiled Salmon from all skin and bones, chop the fish, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes, and pound them until smooth; season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and mix well with it some pounded lobster spawn to give it a good colour, one beaten egg, and sufficient milk to moisten it. Do not make the mixture too liquid. Divide it into equal por- tions, which mould with floured hands into round flat cakes. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cakes and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them, put them on a hot dish with a dish-paper or folded napkin over it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.