244 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, il'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Frairie Hen or Chicken—continued. Frairie Hen or Chicken—continued. cabbage. Bake the chartreuse for about a-quarter-of-an- hour in a brisk oven, then carefully turn it over on to a hot dish, lift the mould oil', and serve. Fricassee of Prairie Chicken.—Clean and singe the bird, cut it up at the joints, and flatten them slightly with a cutlet-bat. Put the pieces of bird in a saucepan, with one onion stuck with two cloves and a bunch composed of one or two small sprigs of thyme and parsley and a bay- leaf; pour in sufficient broth to cover the bird (water can be used, but it will not be found so nice as broth). Place the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the bird is tender. Put a good-sized lump of butter, say about 2oz., in a stew pan, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until melted, then pour in the cooking-liquor of the bird, passing it through a strainer; .season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue Stirling over the fire until it boils again. Put a few sliced mush- rooms in the liquor, let it boil a few minutes longer, then put in the pieces of bird. Stir the beaten yolk of one egg into the fricassee, then turn it all on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Prairie-Hen Croquettes.—Any cold remains of Prairie Hen can lie used. Chop up the flesh very small. Peel and chop fine a middling-sized onion, put it in a stewpan Avith loz. of butter, and fry until lightly brow ned; then dredge in a small quantity of flour, and stir in gradually three-parts of a breakfast-cupful of clear broth. Put in the chopped meat, season Avith salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stir over the fire until boiling. Move the steAvpan to the edge of the fire, and mix in quickly Avliile stirring the beaten yolks of two eggs and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of chopped trullles. Pour the mixture on to a dish, spreading it out, and leave it until cold. Strew breadcrumbs thickly over a paste board, and lay the mixture on it in table-spoonfuls; roll them round to the shape of a cork, giving them a good coating of breadcrumbs. Dip each of the croquettes in beaten egg, then roll again in the breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of fat or dripping into a steAvpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in the croquettes, a few at a tune, and fry until nicely and equally browned. As each lot of the croquettes are cooked, take them out of the fat and lay them on paper in front of the fire to drain. When all are cooked, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Prairie-Chicken Pie.—Skin and bone a Prairie Chicken, chop and Aveigh the flesh, and allow an equal quantity together of ham, salt pork, and calf’s liver, all finely chopped; mix them with the chicken-flesh, then put the Avhole in a mortar, and pound well. Season the mixture Avith salt, pepper, finely-minced parsley, pounded cloves, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon. Work these ingredients Avell together, adding gradually sufficient beaten egg to bind them. Rub 6oz. of butter into lib. of flour, then mix with it 1 pinch of salt, one beaten egg, and sufficient Avater to make a stiff paste. Knead the paste, put it on .a paste-board over which a little flour has been dusted, roll it out to Jin. in thick- ness, fold it in tAvo, and roll doAvn again. Repeat this for six times, then roll it out to Jin. in thickness, giving it as round a shape as possible. Butter a mould, line it Avith the paste, and trim it off evenly at the top Avith a sharp knife. Line the sides and bottom of the paste Avith thin slices of fat pork and put in the mixture of meat, building it in a dome. Roll out the trimmings of the paste to about Jin. in thickness, brush the sides of the paste in the mould Avith a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then put the paste cover on the top; trim it off round the edges, and pinch the tAAO pastes together. Make a hole about lin. in diameter in the top of the cover. Cut five pieces of paste about 3in. square, dust them slightly Avith flour, and place them one upon the other on the left thumb, which should be in an erect position; then Avith the light hand take hold of the pieces, bringing the edges close together so that the top Avill form a ball, and Avitli a sharp knife make tAvo cuts across and through the five pieces; form a kind of stem Avith these pieces, and plant the stem in the hole made in the cover of the pie. Brush the pie over Avith a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and ornament it all round the top Avith fancy-shaped pieces of paste, brushing these over Avith beaten egg. Bake the pie in a good oven from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. To prevent it from becoming too broAvn, Avlien it begins to take colour cover it Avith a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, leave it until cold, then cut the cover all round, lift it off, and fill any holloAV spaces that may be left Avith aspic jelly; replace the cover, put the pie on a dish, garnish round it and on the top of the cover Avith crotitons of the same jelly, and serve. Prairie Hen Saute.—Clean a young Prairie Hen and cut it up at the joints. Put ljoz. of butter in a steAvpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of bird, and fry them over a brisk fire, turn in often till of a nice golden brown. When the bird is brOAvned, drain the superfluous butter oil', dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and pour in h pint of Avhite Avine and sufficient broth to cover it. Add a bunch of thyme and parsley tied together Avith half a bay-leaf, one onion stuck with tAvo cloves, and a small quantity of salt. Put the stewpan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer gently until the bird is tender. Put a feAV mushrooms in AA'itli the bird ten minutes before taking it aAvay from the fire. Place the pieces of bird on a hot dish, garnish AA'itli the mushrooms, pour the cooking-liquor through a strainer over them, and serve. Koasted Prairie Chicken.—Clean and singe a bird, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the stomach and legs, and rub it Avell in. Lay some thin slices of bacon on the breast, fastening them in position with tAvine or small skewers, then wrap the bird in a slieet of buttered paper; fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a good fire, basting con- stantly. The bird will take from tAventy minutes to lialf- an-hour to cook, according to its age. About five minutes before taking it up remove the paper, but leave the slices of bacon on it. Put the bird on a hot dish; mix the juice of half an orange with the gravy in the dripping- pan, season Avith a small quantity of salt and pepper, and strain through a fine hair sieve over the bird. Garnish Avith Avatercress, and serve. Stewed Prairie Chicken.—(1) Put about 3 table-spoonfuls of small squares of fat salted pork into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss them about OATer a brisk fire until melted. Prepare and trass a bird, put it in the fat, Avitli a bunch of SAveet herbs, one large onion, and a small carrot cut in slices, and fry the Avhole gently until begin- ning to take colour. Then moisten to height Avitli Avhite Avine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire. When the bird is tender, pirt it on a hot dish; boil the cooking-liquor for a feAV minutes to slightly reduce it, pour through a strainer over the bird, and serve. A puree of either beans, peas, asparagus, or mushrooms is a good accompaniment. (2) Skin the birds, cut off their heads and feet, draw them Avithout breaking the intestines, and truss them so that they Avill be short and plump. Put them into a large saucepan with sufficient butter to prevent burning; Avlien they are broAvn, add for each one 1 table-spoonful of flour. Stir them about until the flour is brOAvned, then put in 1 gill of tomato ketchup for each bird, enough boil- ing Avater to cover them, and a good seasoning of salt and pepper, and cook sloAvly for tAvo hours, or until tender. Serve the birds on a dish Avitli their sauce, and plain boiled potatoes for a garnish, or in a separate dish. (3) Clean and lard tAvo Prairie chickens. Put Jib. of thin rashers of bacon in a stewpan, AA'itli four sliced onions, one large carrot cut into small pieces, one small dried sausage, and a cabbage that has been blanched and finely shredded. Add a small bunch of thyme and parsley, one bay- leaf, tAvo or three cloves, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Put in the birds, lay three or four thin slices of the bacon ^over them, and pour in sufficient broth to cover them.