199 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. with a piece of the Pine-apple. Mix with the necessary quantity of Pine-apple syrup 1 wineglassful of sherry, pour it over the Pine-apple, and serve. Tinned Fine-apple Trifle.—Open a tin of Pine-apple, strain off the juice, and put the fruit in a mortar. Mix some caster sugar with it, pound until quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve and beat the juice up with it. Sweeten 1 pint of rich cream to taste with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of lemon. Put the Pine-apple pulp in a glass dish, pile the cream over it, drop a few half cherries here and there (see Fig. 253), and serve PINIONS.—The parts of birds’ wings which hold the long quill feathers. Pinions are usually cut away when trimming birds for cooking. FINT.-A measure of capacity, containing the eighth part of a gallon; it is used for both dry and liquid measures. PINTAILS—The name of a Northern Duck (Dafila caudacuta). They are not much known in this country, nor are they considered very good eating. When caught Pintails may be cooked as follows: Roasted Pintail.—Draw the bird, chop up the liver, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped bacon, some chopped sweet herbs and truffles, and bind the whole together with the yolks of one or two eggs. Stuff the Pin- tail with the mixture, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. When cooked, put the bird on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemon, and serve. PIPERS.—These European fish (Trigla lyra) of the gurnet order are not often seen upon the table, but pre- pared as follows they are very tasty: Baked Pipers.—(1) Make a stuffing of l|oz. each of sifted bread- crumbs and finely-chopped suet, a finely-chopped anchovy, pepper, salt, mixed herbs, and mace (both finely-powdered) to taste, half-a-dozen chopped oysters, 1 gill of cream, and two beaten eggs; stir all these well together, put the mixture over the fire, and stir till it thickens. When the fish are well cleaned and dried, stuff them with the pre- paration and sew them up. Put £ pint of good broth into the baking-dish with the Pipers, and when the fish are done boil the liquor together with a small quantity of essence of anchovies and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour it over the fish, and serve hot. (2) Draw and well wash the fish. Mix together 1 breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumbs and chopped beef- suet, a little finely-minced thyme and parsley, a small quantity of mixed spice, cayenne pepper, and salt, a small piece of butter, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient cream to make it the proper consistency. Stuff the bellies of the fish with the forcemeat, sew them up, and fasten the tails to the mouths with small skewers. Brush the fish all over with beaten egg, sprinkle with salt and breadcrumbs, and baste with clarified butter. Put the Pipers in a baking-dish, and bake in a very hot oven to brown them well. Drain the fish when cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Dutch sauce. Pried Fillets of Piper.—(1) Cut the flesh carefully off one large Piper, and divide it into equal-sized fillets; put them in a buttered saute-pan and dust over pepper and salt. Fry them, and when cooked and nicely coloured on both sides, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sharp sauce. (2) Draw a large red Piper, cut the fillets off and trim them to an equal size; divide each fillet into halves, and put them in a bowl with a few chopped shallots, some parsley-roots, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Let the fillets steep for two hours, then drain them; dip them in the beaten whites of two eggs, roll them in breadcrumbs Pipers—continued. and flour mixed together, and fry in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of ravigote sauce; or they may be served with steward’s sauce. PIPING.—See Sugar-Piping. PIPPINS.—See Normandy Pippins. PIQUANT. —This word is derived from the verb piquer—to prick or sting, hence its application to certain sauces. PIQUETTE .—A wine prepared in France by putting water into wine casks containing wine lees. PISHPASH—The name given to an Indian stew or soup prepared as follows : (1) The toughest chicken procurable may be used; it must be cut up into small pieces and put in a jar (an ordinary ginger jar is the best) together with 4 table-' spoonfuls of ground rice and 11 pints of cold water. Season with moderate quantities of salt and pepper, put the lid on the jar, and solder it all round with a common crust to exclude the air. Place the jar in a moderate oven and leave it for three or four hours. Afterwards strain off the liquor into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or croft tons of fned bread. (2) Clean and cut up a small fowl into convenient sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with 3 teacupfuls of rice, a few small onions peeled, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, 3oz. of butter, and sufficient clear stock to cover; season to taste with salt. Let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is very tender, when the rice will be reduced to a pap. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. PISTACHIOS (Fr. Pistaches; Ger. Pistazien ; Ital. Pistacchii; Sp. Pistachos).—The Pistacia-tree (Pistacia vera) which produces the edible Pistachio-nuts (see Fig. 254) is a native of Western Asia, whence it has been introduced into Southern Europe. The fruit hangs in large bunches, each one being oval, about an inch long, and containing, with a green-coloured kernel, one seed. Pistachio-nuts are much eaten by the Turks and Greeks, either dried like almonds or in confectionery. In Italy they are eaten either raw, or fried with pepper and salt, and throughout the civilised world they are regarded as of great culinary importance.