421 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. Serviette in half from right to left, and again fold in half from the top to the lower edge, thus forming a square of 11 in. Double over the right-hand top corner to the centre line, turn over the Serviette, and fold over the second top corner to the centre line, forming Fig. 503. Double back the upper portion of edge A and B by the dotted line, and fold the left-hand corner under the left-hand side of the triangle (Fig. 503A). Turn over the Serviette, and double back the other portion of the lower edge as above, tucking the left-hand corner under the triangle as before (Fig. 503b). Double A over to C and B, under to where C would be on the other side; this forms another triangle. With both hands take hold of each side at C, and draw these sides apart until D D meet (Fig. 503c). Fold the upper portion of A up to B, turn over the Serviette, and repeat this, forming Fig. 503d. Again insert thumbs at C, draw the hands apart so that D and D meet (Fig. 503E). Take hold of points A and B, and pull them well apart to form the boat shown in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. The sides should be pressed together, and the boat will stand up firmly. It is good practice to make this design first in paper. Care must be taken to keep all the points as sharp as possible, and to thoroughly press the folds, as this greatly adds to the effect. Book-slide.—The Serviette must be folded over on two sides, so that it makes a square of 1(pin. After forming the square, fold the four corners into the middle, turn over the Serviette, and let one point be towards you ; fold over this point and the one exactly opposite to it, making them meet in the middle; then double these points back, so that they project slightly over the fedge, Serviettes—continued. as shown in Fig. 504. The (bitted lines in this illustra- tion show where the folds are to be made. It is easier to turn the Serviette over first, and then to fold back one point, as shown in Fig. 505. This point must then be doubled back again at the dotted line. The other point should he treated in the same way, and the Serviette can then be turned on to the right side. The two small points should stand up, as in Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 1. Butterfly.—The napkin for this design must not be square, but an ordinary Serviette can have one edge folded so as to be near to the size; a very good measurement is 28in. by 19in. Have the shorter edge nearest to you on the table, fold over in half from the top corners, so that the two short edges meet near to you; again fold over from the top, and then double the folded Serviette in half from left to right. Now notice that there are six points of the Serviette at the lower right-hand corner; raise the two top ones with the left hand and draw them along the lower edge to the left-hand corner; this will cause the right-hand top corner to be drawn down towards the centre as represented in Fig. 506 looking very like a cocked hat, Take point A and fold it over to 0, do the same with point B, creasing the folds well with a paper-knife ; these form the upper wings of the butterfly, as shown in Fig. 507 Let these wings fall back out of your way whilst you fold the long under-wings; refer again to Fig. 506 ; let point D meet F,