THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 411 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Scones—continued. to make them into a stiff paste. Work it well, then roll it out on to a floured table and divide it into squares. Bake them on a gridiron and serve while hot. (2) Mix ljoz. of cream of tartar and foz. of bicarbonate of soda with 31b. of flour, and rub in 3oz. of lard. Add 3oz. of sugar, Joz. of salt, and 8oz. of well-washed and dried currants; make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient butter-milk to form a dough. When thoroughly mixed form it into shapes, put them on flat tins, brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderately hot oven. They may be eaten hot or cold. (3) Mix a little salt with some flour, then stir in suffi- cient boiling water to make a stiff paste. Work it well with the hands till smooth, then roll the paste out on a floured table to a little under Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds. Bake the Scones on a griddle over a clear brisk fire, cook both sides equally, and serve hot. Fig. 483. Scones. (4) Beat up three eggs, add to them by degrees a scant 1J pints of warm milk, mix in then 4 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and stir in ljlb. of flour; divide the dough into twelve cakes, roll them to the size of muffins, lay them in front of the fire with a cloth over them, and when they have risen well bake them, then split them in halves, butter them, and serve. (5) Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, rub in smoothly 2oz. of butter, and add Jib. of well- washed currants and a moderate quantity of sugar. Beat an egg well in 4 breakfast-cupful of water and stir it in with the above ingredients. When quite smooth, divide the cakes into rounds, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve the Scones hot with butter. (6) Sir Henry Thompson’s Receipt.—Mix with 21b. of whole meal flour Jib. of fine white flour, 4 saltspoonful of salt, some yeast powder, and 2 table-spoonfuls of butter. When the above ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, mix them into a paste with some milk. Divide the paste into equal portions, and bake the cakes till browned in a quick oven; then lower the temperature and finish cooking them through. May be served either hot or cold. Brown Scones.—(1) Mix with 34lb. of brown flour foz. of bicarbonate of soda and Joz. of tartaric acid. Stir in sufficient milk to make the whole into a smooth dough, and work it well. Dredge flour over a table or paste- board, put the dough on it, and roll it out about lin. thick; cut it into rounds 2in. in diameter, lay them on a floured baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. (2) Put \ pint of milk in a saucepan with a small lump of butter and a pinch of salt; when boiling sift in suffi- cient brown-bread flour to make a stiff’ paste. Roll the paste out on a floured board to about Jin. in thickness, and bake them on a griddle over a brisk, clear fire. When crisp and brown put the Scones on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fried Scones.—Dissolve J tcaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid in 1 pint of milk, then stir it smoothly into Jib. of sifted flour. Put a lump of butter into a small frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when it has melted pour in a layer of the flatter and fry it like pancakes. Proceed the same with the remainder of the batter; spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, lay the Scones on it, one on top of the other, dusting a little salt over each, and serve. SCORZONERA (Fr. Scorzonere).—Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” informs us that this plant (Scorzo- nera hispanica) is a native of Spain, “ but is cultivated in this country, and its root is sold in the markets as Scorzonera, a name de- rived from escorzo, the Spanish for a serpent, in allusion to its cooling anti-febrile effects, it hav- ing formerly been em- ployed in Spain on account of these properties for the cure of serpent bites.” The root is shaped some- thing like a long radish (see Fig. 484). It is dark- coloured outside and pure white inside. The taste has something of a nutty flavour, which is exceed- ingly agreeable to in- valids, and as it is de- clared to be a great aid to digestion, it should be more liberally cultivated. Prepared as follows it is excellent: Boiled Scorzonera.— Wash, scrape, and cut off the tops of the roots as for carrots. Tie them in small .bundles, put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently until tender. When cooked drain the Scor- zonera, put them on slices of toast on a hot dish, pour over some melted but- ter or butter sauce, and serve. Boiled Scorzonera with C h e e s e.—W ash and scrape some Scorzonera roots, tie them together in bundles, put them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil until tender. Put 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese in a lined stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 teacupful of milk and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved, then stir in 1 teacupful of cream ; if too thick, add a little more milk to the sauce. Stir it until nearly boiling. Drain the roots of Scorzonera, lay them in a deep dish that will stand the heat of the oven, pour the sauce over them, cover the top with plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and put it in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Serve the Scorzonera very hot in the same dish. Fried Scorzonera.—Boil some Scorzonera-roots till tender; mix with Jib. of flour 1 saltspoonful of baking-powder, two beaten eggs, and 1 teacupful of cold water, season with pepper and salt. When cooked, drain the roots, dip them in the batter, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned put them on a hot dish, and serve. SCOTCH ALES.—At one time ales known by this name were very famous, having a peculiar sweetness, due to Russian honey being used in their brewing. This practice has long since been abandoned, nevertheless Scotch Ales keep up their character for strength and purity. SCOTCH BKOSE.—See Brose. SCOTCH BROTH.—See Broth. SCOTCH CAKES.—See Cakes. SCOTCH KALE.—See Kale. SCOTCH PUDDING.—See Puddings.