THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 311 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Noyau.—Put Alb. or so of gum mucilage into a saucepan with sufficient blanched and founded almonds and Raspberry jam to taste ; place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Turn tbe whole out on to a slab, work in sufficient finely- powdered loaf sugar to make a stiff paste, roll it out into Fig. 365. Raspberry Noyau. a square sheet about lin. in thickness, with wafer-paper at the top and bottom, cut the paste into blocks (see Fig. 365), put them away in boxes, and the noyau is then ready for use. Raspberry Pastille Brops.—Put Aoz. of Raspberry-juice and 3Joz. of sugar into a spouted saucepan over a moderate fire; as soon as the sugar commences to melt, stir well for a couple of minutes. Take the pan off the fire, and drop off small lumps about the size of peas, in rows on a sheet of paper. Let them remain until they are well set, turn the paper upside down, brush it over with water, and let the drops fall into a sieve. Shake over the fire for a few minutes to dry, put them in jars or bottles, securely stopper them, and keep in a dry cool closet until wanted. Raspberry Pie. -Remove the stalks from lib. or so of Raspberries, put them in layers in a tart-dish, with sugar sprinkled between the layers, raising the fruit to a point above the level of the dish. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, cover the whole with a round of the paste, ornament it, dust it over with sugar, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for about tliree- quarters-of-an-hour. When done, take it out, and serve either hot or cold. Raspberry Pudding.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and beat it up with three well-beaten eggs. Stir in 4oz. of sugar and lib. of Raspberry jam. Have ready £lb. of fine breadcrumbs, put a layer of them at the bottom of a buttered mould, then a layer of the jam mixture, and continue in this way until the whole is used up. Set the mould in a moderate oven and bake for about an hour. Turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy with Goz. of caster sugar; next beat in the yolks of eight eggs, 1 teacupful of Raspberry jam and 1A teacupfuls of thick cream. Butter a shallow dish, line it with a good puff paste, and spread the above mixture in it. Bake it in a moderate oven, and serve hot or cold. Raspberry Pulp for Ices. -Put some Raspberries into a bowl with a few red currants and a small quantity of water, bruise them well, rub them through a rather coarse sieve into another basin, and mix in 4oz. of sifted sugar to each pound of the pulp. Put the preparation into bottles, cork and tie them down, place the bottles in a large kettle with water to half their height and a little hay between them to prevent their breaking, and simmer slowly for about fifteen minutes. Let the bottles cool in the liquor, take them out, dip the nozzles into wax, and put them away in a cool dry place until wanted. An Raspberries—continued. ounce of cream of tartar may also be added to the pulp while mixing. Raspberry Salad.—(1) Pick the tops off lqt. of ripe Rasp- berries and pile them on a compote-dish. Press 4 pint of red currants well to extract the juice, which strain through a fine hair sieve, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add A teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and A wineglassful of brandy. Pour the sauce over the Raspberries, and serve them. Or they can be done as follows: Having picked the tops off the Raspberries, arrange nicely on a dish, sift some caster sugar over them, squeeze the juice of two oranges in a cup, mix with it 1 wineglassful of maraschino, pour it over the fruit, and serve them. (2) When picked arrange the Raspberries dome-shaped in the centre of a dish, put a border of fine white currants round them, and garnish with leaves. Put 1 teacup- ful of sugar in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, and stir it over the fire to a syrup, then take it off and leave till cold. Mix with the syrup 1 wineglassful of maraschino, pour it over the fruit, and serve. Raspberry Sauce.—(1) Squeeze the juice from sufficient ripe Raspberries to make A pint, pour it into a small lined saucepan with the juice of a lemon, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and place it over the fire until boiling. Put 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot in a basin, strain the juice, and stir in slowly with the arrowroot. Return the whole to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thick and boiling again. The sauce is then ready for use. If the fresh Raspberries cannot be obtained 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberry jam can be used with A pint of water. Use the lemon-juice, but if sweet enough the sugar may be omitted. (2) Break four eggs in a saucepan, and beat them thoroughly, mixing in at the same time 2 teaspoonfuls of flour. Mash Raspberries till 1 pint of juice is obtained, which pass through a fine hair sieve and stir into the beaten eggs; put in 4oz. of caster sugar and whisk the sauce over the fire until thick and frothy, without letting it boil. Serve the sauce directly it is cooked before the froth subsides. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberry-juice or syrup and the same of water into a saucepan, and add 1 break- fast cupful of sugar with 2 teaspoonfuls of starch mixed in it. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently until the sauce is thick and clear; strain it and it is ready for use. (4) Beat four eggs in a saucepan, and add 1 dessert- spoonful of flour and 4oz. of sugar; mix well, and add 2 breakfast cupfuls of Raspberry-juice. Put tbe saucepan on the fire, whisk well until the sauce is light, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Sherbet.—(1) Put 1A pints of water and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a saucepan, and boil them for twenty minutes, then add the juice of two lemons and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Raspberry-juice; strain the liquor into a freezer, and when it is frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 2Alb. of loaf sugar, crushed and sifted, into a basin, and mix in lloz. of powdered tartaric acid, lOoz. of bicarbonate of soda, and Joz. of essence of Raspberries. Add a little cochineal to colour, and 2 or 3 drops of attar of roses to improve the flavour and smell. The sugar, acid, and soda should be well pounded and mixed together before the other ingredients are added, and they should be stirred in well with the hand. Put the mixture into bottles, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Sponges.—Pass Alb. of Raspberry jam through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and mix with it 1 break- fast-cupful of milk. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in A pint of water, and strain it into the jam. Beat 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth with 4oz. of caster sugar and 1 table- spoonful of finely-grated lemon-peel, mix it with the other ingredients, and whisk the whole to a sponge. Turn the mixture into a mould, and leave it for an hour or two in a cool place. When ready to serve, turn it on to a dish. Raspberry-and-Strawberry Jam.—This is made the same as for Raspberry and Cherry Jam, using Alb. of Raspberries to each pound of strawberries, and fib. of sugar.