THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 243 POT-POURRI.—This term is sometimes applied to a sort of ragout composed of different kinds of meats, vegetables, and other things, cooked together in a terrine. As Pourri signifies rotten, the term does not recommend itself as applicable to a pleasing dish. POTS AND PANS .—Under this heading might be included almost every vessel employed in domestic economy that will hold either liquid or solid. As all those of any special utility in the culinary art are described under separate headings, reference should be made to them for special information. POTTED MEATS.—See special headings and Potting. POTTLE.—A basket or small vessel used for hold- ing fruit, especially strawberries. POTTING.—The processes necessary for preserving various foods, such as meats and fish, in pots, are included under this heading. The flesh must be carefully rid of all bone, gristle, and skin, and then pounded to a paste in a mortar; butter, spice, and seasoning being added accord- ing to taste. Detailed instructions will be found under special headings. Other kinds of Potting will be found described under Jams, Preserves, &c. POULARDES.—These are young fowls which, in the French cook’s signification, have been specially fattened. They may be regarded as the female of the capon, and are usually sent to market plucked and prepared (see Fig. 304) for cooking. Receipts for their use will be found under Fowls. POULETTE.— The French for a hen fowl. This also gives the name to a standard sauce. See Sauces. POULTRY (Fr. Fig. ,504. Poular.de. Volaille; Ger. Geflii- gel; Hal. Pollame; Sp. Aves de coral).—Under this heading are classified all sorts of domestic fowls reared for the table or for eggs and feathers; this definition will include fowls, capons, ducks, turkeys, and geese, to which some add the guinea-fowl and the peacock. All these are described and treated under their special headings. POUND.—This word has two meanings in cookery, one to bniise or pulverise in a mortar, and the other a weight consisting of 16oz. Avoirdupois and 12oz. Troy. POUND CAKE.-See Cakes. POUTARGUE.—See Boutargue. POWDERS, BAKING. —See Baking-powders. PRAIRIE HEN or CHICKEN. —This name is given to an American grouse (Tympanuchus americanus) which frequents the prairies of the Central United States ; it is very delicious when cooked according to any of the following receipts: Baked Prairie Hen.—Pluck, singe and draw the bird, clean it thoroughly, and cut off the claws to about half their length. Truss the bird and bind some thin-slices of fat salted pork over its breast, lay it in a baking-tin with a good- sized lump of butter, and bake in a quick oven, basting it continually. The bird should be kept rather underdone. \V hen cooked, take it out of the oven, remove the bacon, place it on a hot dish, split it into halves, tie round with Prairie Hen or Chicken—continued. ribbon, and decorate the legs with coloured paper frills. Garnish with watercress (see Fig. 305). Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the dripping pan, season to taste with salt and Fig. 305. Baked Prairie Hen. pepper, strain it through a gravy-strainer over the bird, and serve. Broiled Prairie Hen.—(1) Pluck, clean and draw the bird, and split it into halves lengthwise. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the bird and fry it over a brisk fire until a little more than half cooked, turning the halves once or twice. Wrap each half of the bird in a sheet of thickly-buttered paper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms in the pan in which the bird was first cooked, season with salt, pepper, and a little allspice, dredge in a small quantity of flour, and pour in 1 teacupful each of white wine and broth. Stir the sauce over the fire, and boil it until reduced to a thickness that coats the spoon. Remove the paper from the halves of the bird, lay them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat; or, if preferred, put the bird on the dish without the napkin, and serve it with the sauce poured over it. (2) Pluck, draw and clean the bird, and split it lengthwise down the back; cut the legs at the first joint and run them through the skin so that the ends come out on the inside. Dip the pieces of bird in beaten egg, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating; lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Work in well with 2oz. of butter 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced parsley and the juice of a lemon. Turn the pieces of bird constantly while broiling, and when they are cooked put them on a hot dish, spread the prepared butter over them, garnish with parsley, and serve while hot. Chartreuse of Prairie Hen.—Pluck, singe, draw, and clean a Prairie Hen. Butter the interior of a baking-tin, put in the bird, dust over with salt and pepper, baste with 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of cold water, and bake it, keeping it rather underdone. When ready, cut the breast into three slices lengthwise, and the remainder of the bird into four pieces, making in all seven pieces. Peel, slice, and cut into small square or round shapes one large carrot undone turnip, put them into a saucepan with cold water and a small lump of salt, and boil gently until tender. Drain the vegetables and plunge them into cold water. Clean a small head of cabbage, put it in a saucepan with Jib. of lean salted pork and water to cover, and boil it. When done, drain the cabbage as free from water as possible, and finely chop it. Butter a charlotte-mould, ornament the bottom with shapes cut out of boiled beetroots, and fill up the spaces between with some of the carrots and turnips. Lay horizontally a row of pieces of carrots all round and against the sides of the mould, place a similar one of turnips on the carrots, and so on until the top of the mould is reached. Put a thick layer of the cabbage at the bottom of the mould, put in the pieces of fowl, ami cover them with cabbage. The bird should be put in, in such a way that it will be completely enveloped with the For det&ih respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. R 2