TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 203 F<yv details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plaice—continued. until they are all cooked, giving the pan a shake now and then to incorporate the flavours; then turn the fricassee out on to a dish; and serve. A lemon cut in slices and again into quarters may be used as a garnish. Pried Fillets of Plaice.—(1) Clean and skin a Plaice, cut it down the back to the hack-hone, and take off the fillets. Cut them up into good-sized pieces, put them into a fry- ing-pan with 2oz. of lard or dripping, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and squeeze over the juice of half a lemon. Set the pan on the fire and fry for about twelve Fig. 258. Fried Fillets of Plaice. minutes, when the fillets should he quite done. Take them out, drain on a cloth, put them on a hot dish round some chip potatoes, garnish with fried parsley and lemon, and serve. See Fig. 258. (2) Procure two large plump Plaice, remove the skin, split them down the hack, lift the four fillets off the hones and cut them into fillets, then dip them in beaten egg and coat them well with hreadcrumhs. Put some oil in a flat stewpan, place the pan on the fire, and when the oil hoils lay in the fillets and fry them a delicate hrown. When cooked, drain off as much of the fat as possible. Put the trimmings of the fish in a saucepan with a little under 2 pints of water, add two or three hay-leaves, a small piece of lemon-peel, and season with salt and pepper in moderate quantities. When the liquor hoils move the pan to the edge of the fire and keep the contents simmer- ing for two hours. Afterwards strain the liquor into a basin and leave it until cold, when it should be a jelly. Put the jelly into a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, a few drops of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Put the fried fillets into the sauce, and -when they are thoroughly heated lift them carefully out, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pried Plaice.—Put a Plaice on a table or hoard, sprinkle it well on both sides with salt, and let it remain for a day or so; then clean it, wash off the salt, wipe it dry, brush it over with egg, and then cover with breadcrumbs. Have ready some boiling lard or dripping (mixed with 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar) in a frying-pan, put in the fish, and fry for about five minutes, when it should be quite done and a light brown. Take it out, drain off all the fat on a cloth, put it on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. A little anchovy sauce in a sauceboat should accompany it. Plaice au Gratin.—Clean and wash a Plaice, rub it well over with salt, and hang it up to dry in a draughty place. Let it remain for from thirty to forty hours, then put it into a shallow gratin-disli just large enough to hold it. The dish should be previously well oiled or buttered, or masked with the fat skimmed off gravy (sufficient to keep the Plaice from sticking to the pan); a layer of bread- crumbs mixed with finely-chopped parsley may also be put under the fish. Cover the Plaice with another mixture of breadcrumbs and finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, the parsley predominating, and over this again put lumps of butter or fat. Place the dish in a moderate oven and bake until the fish is done and the crumbs well browned, basting frequently with its own liquor. Put it on a dish when done, garnish with a little fried parsley, pour over the liquor out of the gratin-dish, and serve. Plaice—continued. Plaice Salad.—Procure a fine plump Plaice, clean it, and lift the flesh carefully off the bones; cut the flesh into about eight fillets and roll them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, place the pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the fillets and fry them until nicely browned. When cooked, lay the fillets on a sheet of white paper and leave them until cold. Prepare some nice salad vegetables, cut some beetroot and hard-boiled eggs into slices, chop the vegetables, and let them macerate for two or three minutes in a dressing of three-parts oil, one part vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Arrange the fish when it is cold in the centre of a dish, put the salad vegetables round it, garnish with the beetroot and hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Stewed Plaice.—Finely chop some raw Plaice, removing the skin and bones, mix with it an equal quantity of grated stale crumbs of bread, half its quantity of minced calf’s liver, a couple of chopped hard-boiled eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper, mace, and chopped parsley. Bind the mixture with beaten eggs and mould it into small balls. Peel and slice a couple of onions, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, toss them over the fire for two or three minutes, then add half a blade of mace and J breakfast-cupful of water, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Put the forcemeat balls and a nicely- cleaned Plaice in with the onions and let them boil gently at the edge of the fire until quite tender. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in the juice of half a lemon, and strain them; move the fish to the side of the fire, and when the liquor has ceased boiling stir in the beaten eggs. Arrange the fish on a hot dish, garnish round with the forcemeat balls, strain their sauce over them, and serve without delay. Stewed Stuffed Plaice.—Put a large cleaned Plaice into a cold marinade for fish and let it remain for an hour; take it out, and remove as much of the marinade as possible. Chop up one onion, put it into a frying-pan with -}lb. of lard or butter, fry it lightly, pour in h pint of stock, and simmer until the onion is reduced to a pulp. Stir in 11b. of breadcrumbs, soaked in milk or stock, slightly dried in the oven, and mixed up with the yolks of four eggs, season this forcemeat with salt and pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and add a little milk to make it of the required consistence. Place the fish on a drainer, keeping it the white side uppermost, cover it equally all over with the mixture, place it in the kettle, put 8oz. of butter in pieces over it, and pour in J pint of white wine. Place the saucepan on the fire and boil the contents slowly for forty-five-minutes, by which time the fish should be done; take it out, put it on a dish, strain the liquor over, and serve. PLANTAINS—It is not often tlie cook is called upon to deal with these, although when boiled and beaten in a mortar they form a common food in the West Indies ; they also constitute the chief food of the Indians of North and South America. The fruit grows in bunches on trees (Musa paradisiaca) like bananas, to which they are closely allied. Plantains are long, cylindrical, slightly curved, and when ripe, soft, fleshy, and covered with a thick, but tender, yellowish skin. They are exceedingly nutritious, especially when cooked. An excellent wine is brewed from them by the natives. Pried Plantains.—Divide a dozen or so ripe Plantains lengthwise into halves, brush then over with yolk of egg, dust with flour, put them into a frying-pan with melted fat, and fry. Take them out, put them oil a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve. Plantain Fritters.—Put 4 table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin, add a dozen ripe Plantains, 1 teacupful of milk, sugar to sweeten, a few cardamom and caraway seeds, and two well-beaten eggs. Form these into a batter, take up • 1 table-spoonful at a time, drop it into boiling fat, and fry to a good colour, turning the fritters over so as to cook them on both sides. Take them out, dram them, put them on a napkin over a dish, and serve.