THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 429 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Serviettes—continued. and then in quarter by turning the right over to the left hand edges (see Fig. 535). Fold A over to B by the dotted line, producing Fig. 536; pleat the Serviette from C to C, and place the design in a wineglass, leaving the points D d standing out on either side. Separate the top points a little, and let the lower point stand away from the back- ground (see Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2). Pointed Cap.—A very simple pattern is made by fold- ing the Serviette in four, with the selvedges at the top, as directed for the “ Fleur de Lis ” ; the sides are Fig. 537a. then turned to the middle, and the portions indicated by dotted lines in Fig. 537A are turned under. Take point A and roll it over to the centre line, to produce Fig. 537B . do the same with the second half from point B, press the rolled portion to keep it in place, and stand up the Serviette. Fig. 537b. Pointed Fan.—One of the prettiest varieties of the many fan patterns is made as follows: Place the Serviette open on the table, with one point towards you; make a 2in. fold or tuck across the top part of the diamond, turn- ing upwards, so that the top edge is about 6in. from the top point; make a similar fold of the same depth with its top edge about 9in. from the top point. Now turn Serviettes—continued. » under the lower point of the diamond so that it comes within lin. of the top point, forming a kind of backing to the tucked portion, as indicated by the dotted line in Fig. 538. Turn up 1 tin. of the lower edge, proceed to kilt the fan in rather wide folds, then hold the pleats firmly in the left hand whilst you draw down the inner folds of the pleats in each of the two tucks. The It in. fold at the lower edge must all go into a wineglass, and the fan will then stand well if the pleats be evenly and well pressed. Plate “ Artistic Serviettes,” No. 2, shows the complete design. Fig. 539a. Prince.—Fold the napkin in three lengthwise, double the top fold in small pleats backwards and forwards till half-way (Fig. 539a). Turn over the Serviette, and fold the sides into the centre, turn it over again, and fold the top corners to meet in the centre (as in Fig. 539b). This resembles a cocked hat. Take the bottom corners, fold them upwards into the centre, forming a perfect square