265 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. ingredients in the freezer, and stir well with the spatula until the whole is quite frozen. Put the mixture into a mould or moulds of any shape or design, and set on ice; turn the Pudding out when firm, and serve. (4) Take off the outside shells from 1J pints of chestnuts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour; take them out, mb off the inner peel, put them in a mortar, and pound to a paste. Blanch and pound also 1 pint of almonds. Put the liquor from a preserved pine-apple into a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of sugar and the same of water, put them over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and beat in the yolks of ten eggs. Place the saucepan in a bain-marie, or in a larger saucepan of boiling water, and whisk briskly until the mixture thickens. Take the saucepan out again, put it in a bowl of cold water, and beat for ten minutes longer. Put the pounded almonds and chestnuts in a basin with 1 pint of cream, stir them well, and rub the whole through a verv fine sieve into a basin. Pour in the egg mixture, add i'lb. of French candied fruit, 1 pint can or pot of pine apple, both cut up into very small pieces, J teaspoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla extract, and 4 table-spoonfuls of wine. Pour the mixture into a plain or ornamental mould packed in ice, cover it with a lid, hermetically seal it with butter, pack the ice on top, and let it remain until quite set and firm. Turn the Pudding out on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Newark Pudding.—Put 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of rice-flour into a basin, and add sufficient cold water to moisten it. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into another basin with a little more than sufficient milk to cover them; when they are well soaked, stir in the rice-flour, then the well-beaten yolks of five eggs, then the remain- ing quantity from lqt. of milk after the amount used for soaking the crumbs, next 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour. Put Jib. of angelica or preserved cherries cut in halves at the bottom and round the sides of a buttered plain mould, pour the mixture in, and steam it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water; or it may be baked in a quick oven. It will require two hours for steaming, and one for baking. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour sweet or wine sauce either over or round it, and serve. New College Puddings.—Finely chop Jib. of suet, and mix with it a grated penny roll or Jib. of Naples biscuits, Jib. of washed and dried currants, 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and J saltspoonful of salt. Mix thoroughly, moistening with two well-beaten eggs and suiiicient cream to bring it to the consistency of frying-batter. Put a large lump of butter in a frying-pan over the fire ; when it is boiling drop in the mixture by table-spoonfuls, and fry to a golden colour. When cooked, drain them, ornament the top of each with a preserved cherry or piece of angelica, pile them on a dish, and serve. Newmarket Pudding.—Put 1J pints of milk in a sauce pan with a bay-leaf, the thinly-pared rind of a small lemon, a small piece of stick cinnamon, and sugar to taste, and boil it until nicely flavoured. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, and arrange them in layers in a pie-dish, strewing a few well-washed and dried currants between each layer. Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, and when the milk has somewhat cooled stir it in gradually with them, and strain the whole over the bread- and-butter. Bake until nicely browned on the top. Nonpareil Pudding.—Put lqt. of finely-sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over lqt. of milk, and work in Jib. each of warm butter and crushed loaf sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of five eggs; put the mixture into a mould, and bake gently until well set in the centre. Take it out of the oven, spread over 1 breakfast- cupful of any fruit jelly, then return it to the oven, and let it remain until the jelly is boiling hot. Take it out, spread over a meringue paste made with the whites of five eggs, Jib. of sugar, and a little vanilla or other flavour- Puddings—continued. ing, put the Pudding into the hot-closet to dry and slightly colour, then take it out and serve. Norfolk Puddings.—Put two eggs into a basin, beat them in with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a little salt, and add sufficient flour to give the mixture the consistency of batter. Put a saucepan of water on the fire, and when it boils drop the batter in, in spoonfuls ; boil them for two to three minutes, then take them out, drain on a sieve, put them into a dish, stir them up with a lump of butter, and serve at once. The water in the saucepan must be boiling fast, or the Puddings will spoil. Northumberland Puddings.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls each of flour and milk into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and let them stand for several hours; they should be mixed and left for a day if possible. Add 4oz. of clarified butter, working it in with a spoon in order to break any lumps that may lie in the mixture, also 6oz. of currants, washed, dried, and broken in a mortar, 2oz. of finely-chopped candied lemon-peel, sufficient sugar to taste, and lastly 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Put the mix'ture into small cup-shaped moulds or basins, set them in a moderate oven, and bake slowly for half-an-hour; then turn them out on to a dish, pour over a little sweet wine sauce, and serve. Nottingham Pudding.—Prepare lqt. of light batter; pare and core ten large cooking apples, and fill the hollows left by the cores with moist sugar. Arrange them in a pie- dish, pour the batter over, and bake for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. Nun Pudding.—Break four eggs into a basin and beat them well, then mix with them 2oz. of flour and 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar; pour in gradually lqt. of milk, and stir until smooth. Turn it into a saucepan, stir over the fire until thickened (but take it off before it boils, or the eggs will curdle), and continue to stir it by the side of the fire. Put Jib. of macaroons in a dish, pour the custard over them, and leave until cold. Strew Jib. of grated cocoa-nut over the top, and a small quantity of caster sugar, and serve. Orleans Pudding. -Beat five eggs well and stir in gradu- ally with them 1 pint of cream that has been boiled and 6oz. of caster sugar. Pour the mixture into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until thickened, then move it off and add Joz. of gelatine that has been soaked in cold water ; stir until the gelatine is dissolved, then strain the mixture through a tammy cloth into a bowl. Put J teacupful of rum into a small saucepan, with Joz. each of chopped candied citron- and orange-peels, Joz. each of well-washed currants and stoned raisins, and stir them over a slow fire until the rum is reduced. Put a layer of the cream at the bottom of a cylinder-mould, then a layer of the fruit, over that a layer of crushed macaroons and slices of sponge cakes, then another layer of cream, and so on until the mould is full. Cover it securely and pack it in pounded ice for an hour or two. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and turn the Pudding out on to a dish. Oxford Pudding.—(1) Put 6oz. each of finely-shredded beef-suet and well washed and stoned raisins into a basin with Soz. of breadcrumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and moist sugar, 1 pinch of salt, 1 saltspoonful of ground mixed spice, and a few drops of essence of almonds to flavour; work the whole into a stiff paste, by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, and 1 wineglassful of sherry. Turn this mixture into a buttered Pudding-basin, put it into a saucepan of water, set over a clear fire, ami boil gently for about three-hours-and-a-half. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over a little wine or brandy sauce, and serve. (2) Put Jib. each of washed and dried currants, grated biscuits, and shredded beef-suet into a basin, and mix them thoroughly with 1 table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and a little flavouring of nutmeg. Work into a stiffish paste by adding the yolks of three eggs, and form it into small balls; put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them to a light golden