415 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Seasons—continued. Herbs (various), Jerusalem Artichokes, Leeks, Lettuces, Onions, Parsnips, Potatoes, Salads, Savoys, Shallots, Toma- toes, Turnips, Winter Spinach. Fruits.—Almonds, Apples (Golden Pippin, Holland Pippin, Kentish Pippin, Nonpareil, Wheeler’s Russet, Winter Pearmain), Bullaces, Chestnuts (very good), Grapes, Hazel Nuts, Medlars, Pears (Bergamot, Beurre de Chaumontelle, Colmar, Spanish Bon Chretien), Services, Walnuts. December.—Meat.—Beef, Doe Venison, House Lamb, Mutton, Pork, Veal (all at the primest). Poultry and Game.—Capercailzies, Capons (prime), Chickens, Dotterels, Ducks, Dun-birds, Fowls, Geese, Grouse, Guinea Fowls (prime), Hares, Larks, Moor Game, Ortolans, Partridges, Peafowls, Pheasants, Pigeons, Ptarmigan, Quails, Rabbits, Snipe, Teal, Turkeys (prime), Wheatears, Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Woodcocks. Fish.—Barbel, Brill, Carp, Cockles, Cod (prime), Crabs, Dories (prime), Eels, Gudgeon, Gurnets, Haddocks, Hake (prime), Halibut, Herrings, Ling (prime), Lobsters, Mullets, Mussels, Oysters, Perch, Pike, Plaice, Salmon, Shrimps, Skate (good), Smelts, Soles, Sprats, Sturgeons, Tench, Turbot (prime), Whiting. Vegetables.—Beetroot, Broccoli (white and red), Brussels Sprouts, Cabbages, Cardoons, Carrots, Celery (prime), Endive, Herbs (various), Jerusalem Artichokes, Kale (Scotch), Leeks, Onions, Potatoes, Salsify, Scorzonera, Shallots, Spinach (winter), Truffles, Turnips. Fruits.—Almonds, Apples (Golden Pippin, Nonpareil, Winter Pearmain, Golden Russet), Chestnuts, Hazel Nuts, Medlars, Oranges, Pears (Bergamot, Beurrd d’Hiver, Colmar, Holland, St. Germain), Walnuts. SEASONING-.—Herein lieth much of the art of the cook, and can only be acquired by experience. All sorts of delicious flavours can be imparted to simple viands from numerous sources, such as herbs, spices, &c., but the modern cook confines the use of the term seasoning to the rendering tasty by the addition of salt and pepper principally. It is quite impossible to lay down any laws for seasoning, but by careful attention to the directions given in the receipts to be found in this Encyclopaedia, a clever cook will readily master the details. A golden rule is season lightly, as more can be added to suit the taste, but it would be diffi- cult to take any out after having once added it. Every large kitchen is supplied with one or more seasoning- boxes (see Fig. 486), divided into compartments, in which various seasonings, such as salt, di’ied parsley, &c\, are duly stored. The lids should be easily raised, and the compartments large enough to admit the hand of the cook, who, perhaps, has only one hand at liberty, the other being employed in holding still or open the article to be seasoned. See also Flavourings, Herbs, Spices, &c. SEAWEEDS.—See Alg;e. SEED-OIL.—An oil expressed from cotton-seed, said to be odourless and tasteless, and therefore a good sub- stitute for olive oil, for which it is frequently used in cooking. SEGUI.—A kind of silvery trout caught in the lakes of Savoy. It is a favourite Russian fish, and is smoked in large quantities for exportation. Its average weight is from 51b. to 61b., rarely, if ever, exceeding the heavier weight. Dubois tells us that the Russians prefer to bake it with butter, or it may be cooked in wine like salmon, or grilled. As it is only possible to get the Segui—continued. smoked fish in this country, the following receipt for preparing it may be useful: Mix loz. of mustard quite smoothly with 1 teacupful of olive-oil and ^ teacupful of Orleans vinegar, and season the sauce with a small quantity of salt and sugar. Pro- cure a smoked Segui, peel the skin off carefully, take out the fillets, and cut them into slices. Replace them, giving the fish its former shape, place it on a dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. SEIBLING.—A fresh-water fish resembling a trout, but having the belly red and marked over the body with stars. It grows to a large size, being sometimes caught weighing as much as 121b. It is common to the lakes of Bavaria, but a species of it, known as star-fish, is sometimes caught in the lakes of Scotland. Seibling are in season from September to January, but during the remainder of the year it is forbidden by Government to fish for them. The following receipts for their preparation are taken from the instructions given by Dubois : (1) Draw the fish by the rills, but do not scale it or cut the fins, and truss the nead. Put the fish in a fish- kettle with water and white wine mixed in equal quan- tities to half its height, and add a bunch of parsley and a little salt. When boiling, move the kettle to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for lialf-an-hour, or a little longer. When cooked, drain the fish carefully, remove the string from the head, put it on a drainer with a napkin folded over it on a hot dish, garnish with fresh paisley, and serve with a sauceboatful of Bavarian sauce. (2) Clean and prepare the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with sufficient court bouillon and white wine in equal quantities to cover it, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, take the fish gently out of the kettle, being care- ful not to break it, and leave it until cold. Slightly tinge some half-set aspic jelly with cochineal, then mask the fish with it. Stand the fish on its belly on a carved fish-stand, if possible, or if that is not convenient on an oval-shaped dish; garnish it with chopped jelly, then with croutons of the coloured jelly. Serve with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. SELTZER WATER.—See Aerated Waters. SEMOLA.—A food for infants and invalids made from wheat-flour, which is prepared in such a manner as to retain the largest amount of gluten, stated to be 48 per cent. The word is Italian for bran. SEMOLINA (Fr. Semoule).—The large hard grains of wheat-flour retained in the bolting-machine after the fine flour has passed through its meshes. Dr. Ure informs us that the best Semolina is obtained from the wheat of the southern parts ce Europe. The fine white Parisian bread called Gruau is made with it. Semo- lina can be used in a variety of ways. Semolina Cake (Turkish).—Put 8oz. of butter into a sauce- pan over the fire and stir well till browned, then add gradually lib. of Semolina and continue stirring until thoroughly mixed and browned- Put 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk into another sauce- pan, and bring them to the boil. Blanch three or four dozen almonds, divide them into halves, put them into the saucepan with the Semolina, stir in the syrup, adding it slowly, mix well until a thick paste is obtained, pour the mixture into a mould, let it get cold and set, then turn it out, and serve. Garnish with square almond-flavoured biscuits (see Fig. 487). Semolina Consomme.—Put the requisite quantity of stock broth over the fire, and when boiling add some Semolina; boil it till the Semolina is tender, then turn it into a soup- tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Any kind of puree can be mixed with the soup; in that case the Semolina should be kept thinner. Fig. 486. Seasoning-box (Attains anti Son).