393 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in a little Madeira, and serve it. (5) Chop up very fine two large truffles, place them in a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, and reduce over the hot stove for five minutes. Add 4 pint of Spanish Sauce, allow it to come to the boil, and serve very hot. Piquant Sauce.—(1) Prepare some melted butter, flavour it to taste with elder-flower, tarragon, or malt vinegar, a little pepper, and mustard if liked. Stir the Sauce over the fire till cooked, then move it to the side, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and serve. (2) Place a piece of butter in a stewpan; when melted, put in with it two sliced onions, one carrot, one parsnip, two shallots, a little thyme, basil, and parsley, and a clove of garlic, and fry them till nicely browned; then dredge in a little flour, and moisten with broth and 1 table-spoon- ful of vinegar. Boil the Sauce over a slow fire, skim, and strain it through a sieve. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. (3) Prepare 1 pint of butter Sauce, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped pickles, olives, capers, 4 teaspoonful of onion-juice, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and lemon-juice, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir the above ingredients over the fire till cooked, then serve the Sauce at once. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped shallots into a stew- pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil them till the moisture has evaporated somewhat. Pour in with the shallots 1J pints of half glaze and a little over £ pint of broth, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Skim the Sauce, then add 4 teaspoonful of sugar and 2 table-spoon- fuls of chopped gherkins. Season the Sauce with cayenne pepper, but do not let it boil after the gherkins are added. (5) Make some brown Sauce, and mix with it 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a piece of onion, half a bay-leaf, and some bruised peppercorns. Stir the Sauce over the fire till cooked, then strain it, add a few capers, and serve. (6) Fry one chopped onion with 1J table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan; when nicely browned, add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir over the fire till coloured; add 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, 4 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teacupful of water, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the Sauce, and let it simmer for ten minutes or more, then strain it, and serve. (7) Chop very finely three mushrooms, one shallot, and a small carrot or half a large one. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the above ingredients, and fry them till nicely browned; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and 4 pint of rich brown stock, add a bay-leaf, one or two sprigs of thyme, and 1 table-spoonful of Harvey’s Sauce, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Stir in 4 teacupful of vinegar, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Strain the Sauce, and it is ready for use. (8) Put four washed and chopped shallots into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 teacupful of vinegar, and stir them with a wooden spoon over the fire till the butter becomes clear and the vinegar has reduced; dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour with the butter, and stir it till well mixed; then pour in slowly 1 pint of clear broth, colour the Sauce with a few drops of caramel, and boil it slowly for fifteen minutes. Add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped gherkins and parsley, and boil them; j then skim the Sauce, and serve. Poivrade Sauce.—(1) Put into a stewpan half-a-dozen scallions, a little thyme, a good bunch of parsley, two bay- leaves, 1 dessert-spoonful of white pepper, 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, and 2oz. of butter, and let all stew together till nearly all the liquor has evaporated; then add 1 teacupful of stock and 2 teacupfuls of Spanish Sauce. Boil till this is reduced to one half, and strain. (2) Peel and chop two carrots, two onions, one turnip, one head of celery, one shallot, one clove of garlic, and two leeks, put them into a saucepan with Jib. of lean ham and a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly browned; then add three tomatoes cut into small pieces, a blade of ! Sauces—continued. mace, five or six cloves, two dozen peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Boil them till the moisture has quite reduced, then dredge in 3oz. of flour, and stir in slowly 3 pints of stock. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for one hour, stirring them occa- sionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and use it when ready. (3) Put into a saucepan a bunch of freshly-picked parsley, two small sliced onions, one small sliced carrot, three shallots, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, 1 teaspoon- ful of coarsely-ground white ]>epper, and 1 teacupful of vinegar, and boil till the vinegar is reduced to half; then pour in 1 pint of broth, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. Prepare a roux in another saucepan with loz. each of butter and flour, then stir in gently and by degrees the contents of the other saucepan, seasoning with salt to taste. Care must be taken to mix them well, or the flour will get lumpy. Boil the Sauce, and stir it continually for twenty minutes; then skim and strain it, and it will be ready for use. (4) Put lib. of fillet of veal and 4lb. of raw ham, both cut into small pieces, into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes; then add two bay-leaves, one carrot, and one large onion, both sliced, two shallots, two cloves, 1 pinch of pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Continue frying them for a few minutes longer, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar, and boil it till reduced, but stir the ingredients occa- sionally to prevent their burning. When the moisture has evaporated, pour into the saucepan lqt. of Spanish Sauce and 4 pint of veal broth. Stir all till boiling, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let them simmer for half-an-hour, skimming occasionally. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it with a wooden spoon till cold to prevent a skin forming on the surface. Polish. Sauce (d la Polonaise).—(1) Peel and cut some turnips into small balls or olives, and boil them till tender in salted water with the addition of a little sugar. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed but not browned; then pour in 1 pint of liquor in which some fish has been boiled, and boil it quickly over the fire till somewhat reduced. Boil 1 pint of cream, stirring it con- stantly while boiling, then mix it with the Sauce; drain the turnips, add them, and season to taste. Serve the Sauce while hot. (2) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till brown and quite smooth; then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring it all the time. When boiling, put in with the Sauce 4 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish, the juice of one lemon, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil all for a few minutes longer, then add 1 table-spoonful of washed and chopped parsley, and serve the Sauce. It is generally used for roasted veal. Pompadour Sauce. —Put some chopped shallots and mush- rooms into a saucepan with a little butter, and sweat them for a few minutes on the fire; then put in with them 14 teacupfuls of Sauce tournee and 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour, keeping them well skimmed. Thicken the Sauce with the beaten yolks of three eggs, add 4 teacupful of cream, a little salt and pepper, punl stir the whole by the side of the fire till quite hot and well mixed. Blanch and finely chop a little parsley, mix it with the Sauce, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it. The lemon-juice may be omitted if it is not. liked. Poor Man’s Sauce.—(1) Put \ pint of stock into a sauce- pan, add a slice of lemon and 1 table-spoonful of chopped onions, and boil till the onion is cooked; then take out the lemon, and serve. (2) Put in some rich broth 1 table-spoonful each of chopped shallots and vinegar, one onion, a bunch of parsley, and a little pepper and salt. Boil the Sauce till the