THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 352 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Russian Wines—continued. Transcaucasia dates back to time immemorial, and the opinion prevails that the vine was introduced into Europe from that country. The peculiarity of Russian wines is that they are fermented in jars and preserved in other jars buried under-ground. RYE (Fr. Seigle; Ger. Roggen; Ital. Segala; Sp. Centeno).—The seed of a plant (Secale cereale) which is largely cultivated in Russia, Germany, and the northern parts of Europe, for making bread (see Bread). It is also used for some other purposes, furnishing an excellent malt for the distillation of spirit, and is much used in the making of Hollands. Cooley informs use that Rye bread is very likely to cause diarrhoea to those unaccus- tomed to partake of it. Rye bread is acid, and dark in colour, but about equal in nutritive value to wheat bread. Green Rye Soup (German).—In all parts of Germany, where this soup is in great demand, the Rye is cut when the grain commences to ripen, but while still green; it is then dried in the sun and afterwards threshed out. The corn prepared in this way is used only for soups. Pre- pare about 2qts. of rich vegetable soup, put it into a saucepan with lib. of Rye prepared as above and well washed in several waters, add six leeks and a head of celery tied up in a bunch, and boil slowly for about four hours. Take out the bunch of vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces, together with the white parts from two more heads of celery and the yellow parts from six leeks all cut up; return them all to the soup, thicken with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed smooth in cold stock, and stir well until quite smooth. Add a small quantity of moist sugar, and boil slowly for about an hour. Skim thoroughly, pour the soup into a tureen, and serve hot. Rye Batter Cakes.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sifted Rye- meal into a basin, add a little salt, and pour in suffi- cient warm milk to form the whole into a thin batter. Beat well, add 1 gill of yeast, and set it to lise; then | add a little flour if it should be too thin, form it into cakes, put them on a griddle over a clear fire, and cook them. Take them off when done, and they are ready for serving. Rye Cakes.—Mix 4oz. of wheat-flour with 4oz. of Rye-meal, then mix them to a smooth paste with 1 pint of milk and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a few small cake-tins, three- parts fill them with the batter, put them in a brisk oven, and bake them. When cooked, turn the cakes out of their tins, put them on a hot plate, and serve them at once. Rye in Imitation of Coffee.—Well wash the required quan- tity of whole Rye, put it into a saucepan with a good supply of water, and boil it gently until it is soft, taking care that the grains do not burst. Take it out, drain, spread it out on paper placed in the sun or in a slow oven, and let it dry. Bum it in the same way as coffee, grind it, and it is then ready for use. Rye Gems.—Put § breakfast-cupful of Rye-meal into a basin, add \ teacupful of wheat-flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a basin, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of sifted crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; turn this into the dry mixture, and add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a still" froth. Put the mixture into gem pans or mould cups, with a slice of candied-peel in each, set them in the oven, and bake them for from thirty to forty minutes. Turn them out when done, and they are ready for use (see Fig. 418). The quantity of the ingredients used above is sufficient to make half-a-dozen gems. Rye—con tinned. Rye Muffins.—(1) Put 3 teacupfuls of sifted Rye-meal into a large bowl, and add an equal quantity of flour, 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, h teaspoonful of salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar all rubbed together through a sieve. Beat well two eggs, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, stir this into the dry mixture, and work to a stiffish paste. Dip a table-spoon in cold milk, fill it with the batter, drop it into boiling fat in a frying-pan, and fry for about ten minutes. Take out the muffins as they are done, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. They may also be made with U breakfast-cupfuls of Rye-meal and flour in equal quantities. (2) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sour milk and 1 teacupful of molasses into a bowl, and add a little Rye-flour mixed up with 1 saltspoonful each of salt and ground cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Beat well a couple of eggs, mix them into the other ingredients, and work in sufficient of the Rye-flour to make a batter that will drop from a spoon. Dip a table-spoon in milk, take up a little of the batter, drop it into a frying- pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes. Take out the muffins, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Put i breakfast-cupful of Rye-flour or sifted Rye-meal into a basin, and mix in J teacupful of sifted crushed loaf sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 breakfast-cupful of wheat-flour, with 2 table-spoonfuls of baking-powder mixed up with it. When these are well incorporated, add an egg beaten well in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and mix at once. Put the preparation into heated gem or muffin pans, set them in a moderate oven, and bake for about twenty-five minutes. Turn them out when done, and serve. A teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar may be substituted for the baking-powder. Rye Mush.—Put 1 teacupful of Rye-flour into a basin, mix in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and pour in sufficient cold water to make a thin smooth paste; then stir it into a sauce- pan containing 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, set the pan on the fire, and stir frequently for twenty minutes. Turn the mush into a bowl, and serve with cream or molasses. It should be quite thick when it is done. RYE WHISKY.—See Whisky. SAB A YON.—A kind of whipped froth, which is some- times served separately, or used as an accompaniment to sweet puddings. The following are excellent receipts for it: (1) Put into a stewpan the yolks of eight eggs and *>. of caster sugar, mix thoroughly, and moisten with 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Set the stewpan over a very slow lire, and whip the contents continuously until it is quite as frothy as whipped cream. It should then be served immediately, either in custard glasses or spread over the pudding with which it is to be served. (2) Put the yolks of ten and the whites of two eggs in a saucepan, and whisk them well, adding gradually 8oz. of caster sugar and I wineglassful of kirschenwasser. Put the saucepan over a very slow fire or in the bain- marie, and continue to whisk until the contents become quite frothy ; then remove the pan to a quicker fire, and whisk for two minutes; and then remove it to the side of the fire, whisking it continually until it has cooled a little. Put the pan on the ice, whisk it until it is firm, pour it into glasses, and serve quickly. (3) Mix in a saucepan the yolks of thirteen and the whites of three eggs, and Rb. of caster sugar, and beat them together; then add 7 wineglassfuls of wine, half a stick of vanilla, a small piece of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon. Whip the mixture over the fire till frothy, then take it off the fire, and continue whipping till cold. Mix with the above 3oz. of clarified gelatine and 1 teacupful of rum, pour the mixture into a mould, and pack it in ice. In two hours’ time, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a folded napkin placed on a dish, and serve.