THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 349 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Bum—continued. 1 pint of cream, and stir them in with the milk, also stir the mixture close to the edge of the fire until it has thickened, then move it away and continue stirring it until half cold; then mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of Rum. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and stand it on ice or in a very cold place. In a few hours’ time, or when the pudding is quite set and cold, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and serve. Rum Jelly.—Put loz. of gelatine into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and let it soak; then add the strained juice and thin rind of three lemons, 8oz. of crushed loaf sugar, eight cloves, ten peppercorns, half a stick of cinnamon, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pour in lastly 11 teacupfuls of Rum. Whisk well, pour the mixture into a saucepan over the fire, and stir well until the gelatine has dissolved; then add the well whisked whites of two eggs, and after it has boiled for two or three minutes, pass it through a jelly-bag, con- tinuing to strain until the jelly runs clear; then stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy. Turn the jelly into a mould packed in ice, and let it get quite firm; then turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Rum Julep.—Put into a large glass 1 wineglassful each of syrup and white Rum, add to these h wineglassful of bay Rum, and fill up with ice; add a few drops of lemon- juice, or rub round the rim of the glass with lemon; over this arrange a little sweet balm and a few slices of banana, and drink through straws. Small grapes may be used instead of the balm and banana, if desired. Rum Milk Punch.—Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 dessert-spoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of Rum, and 1 pint of milk warm from the cow, then strain it. Rum Omelet.—Put six eggs and a little milk into a basin, add 1 teaspoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar, and beat well, but not to make the omelet too light. Turn the mixture into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry Fig. 414. Rum Omelet. until done, rolling the omelet into shape as soon as it begins to get stiff. Turn it out on to a dish, dredge over a little sugar, pour round 1 teacupful of Rum. ignite it (see Fig. 414), and serve at once. Rum Preserve.—Put 111), each of strawberries and rasp- berries, 21b. of powdered loaf sugar, and 1 pint of Rum into a deep stone jar, and stir them gently. Tie bladder over the jar. Pick the stalks off lib. of ripe currants and put them in the jar with lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Con- tinue in this way as the various fruits ripen, putting in lib. of sugar until each pound of fruit. The fruits that can be used, in addition to those mentioned, are: cherries, green- gages, plums, nectarines or apricots, and blackberries or mulberries; gooseberries must be excepted, on account of their skins, and the large fruits should be cut into halves. When all the fruits are in, tie the bladder over the jar, and let it stand in a dry place a couple of months, when the preserve will be ready for using. Rum Pudding. —Pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs just sufficient Rum to moisten them. Beat the yolks of six eggs with the whites of two, and 5 table spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix them with the soaked Bum—continued. breadcrumbs, and flavour with the grated peel of a lemon and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. W liisk the whites of four eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with the above ingredients. Butter the interior of a dome- shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter the mould. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, pour 1 wineglassful of Rum over, ignite it, and serve immedi- ately with a sauceboatful of orange sauce. Rum Punch.—(1) Put lqt. each of Rum and brandy into an earthenware jar, with 1 breakfast-cupful each of rack or arrack, and strong green tea liquor, and add twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, and thirty coriander seeds all well pounded in a mortar, a small grated nutmeg, 211). each of loaf sugar and pine apple cut in slices, the thin rind of four lemons, and the strained juice of twelve. Pour over igall. of boiling water, cover the jar with bladder, and let it stand without being moved for two days. Add £gall. of boiling sweet milk, strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, put it into bottles, and cork them down. Tire punch is then ready for use, but it should be iced before serving. (2) Mix together in a large stone_ bottle or jug 1 pint of strong syrup, lqt. of water, 1 pint of Rum, 1 pint of brandy, and 1 breakfast-cupful of strained lemon-juice. Stand the jug or bottle in a tub, surround it with broken ice and a small quantity of salt, and leave it until ready to serve. It should be in the ice at least an hour. Serve it in small glasses. (3) For Bottling.—Put into a bowl lgall. each of clarified syrup and white Rum, and stir them well together. Mix loz. of essence of lemon with lqt. of bay Rum, and add it to the syrup mixture. Have ready 1 putt of in- fusion of tea, and mix it with an equal quantity of clarified lime-juice. Pour all together into a barrel, work it well, let it stand for a day, and bottle. After three months in bottle it will be fit for use. Rum Sauce.—(1) Put i pint of water with 4oz. of granulated sugar in a saucepan, and place it on the stove, adding 1 teaspoonful of caramel; when boiling, add loz. of corn- flour diluted in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, stir wgll with a spatula, and cook for two minutes. Remove from the fire, and add immediately 1 gill of Jamaica Rum, mix- ing well; then strain it through a fine sieve over the pud- ding it is to be served with. (2) Beat to a smooth cream the yolks of two eggs, 2 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth. Just before serving the sauce, quickly and lightly mix with the whites 2 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, then mix in the yolks, and finally 1 wineglassful of the best (old Jamaica) Rum, or more, according to taste. Use the sauce as soon as it is made. Rum Slirub.—(1) Put 1 pint of strained orange-juice into an earthenware hasin, and mix in 21b. of loaf sugar and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of Rum. Let it remain, stirring occa- sionally, until the sugar is dissolved. Pass the liquor through a jelly-bag, pour it into bottles, cork them down, and in a few days’ time the shrub will be ready for use. (2) Cut off the rinds of six oranges and six lemons, paring them as thinly as possible, and put it into a 4gall. jar or cask; pour over 2gall. of Rum, and squeeze in the juice of the oranges and lemons, passing it through a fine strainer; now stir in 41b. of sugar, and let it stand for two weeks, giving it a vigorous stir daily for seven days. Ascertain if it is clear by pouring a little off; if not suffi- ciently clear, add loz. of gelatine dissolved in water over the fire, adding it while hot. Stir up well and vigorously, bung up securely, let it remain for three days, and bottle. (3) Put lgall. of Rum into a jar, add loz. of essence of orange and loz. of the essence of lemon, then add 1 break- fast-cupful of lime-juice, and work in lqt. of syrup. It is then ready for use. Rum Sling.—Put 1 wineglassful or a little more of Rum into a tumbler, fill up with milk, put in a lump of ice, ami drink at once.