TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 212 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plum Puddings—continued. grated nutmeg and ginger to flavour, lib. of stoned raisins, and make the whole into a thick paste by adding 2 table- spoonfuls of treacle and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Turn the mixture into a cloth or basin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for four hours, when it should be done; turn it out, and serve. (5) Put 12oz. of shred beef-suet into a basin and nib it well into lib. of Hour; then add lib. each of washed currants or sultanas, moist sugar, and breadcrumbs, lib. of stoned raisins, 4oz. of chopped mixed candied peel, 1 teaspoonful each of ground ginger, spice, and cinnamon, one grated nutmeg, the juice and grated rind of a lemon and orange, half-a-dozen bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, and a very small quantity of salt. Stir in six eggs, 1 wineglassful of curapoa or brandy, and sufficient marsala or home-made wine to moisten and swell the ingredients. Let it remain for a day, then put it into a well-buttered mould, set it in a saucepan of water, and boil for eight hours; turn it out on to a dish, and serve. If the mixture is too much for one pudding, divide it in two moulds and boil for six hours only. (6) Put lib. each of washed and dried currants, stoned raisins, shred beef-suet, breadcrumbs, and moist sugar, one large apple, peeled, cored, and finely-chopped, 4oz. of candied lemon-peel, a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ground cinna- mon, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2 wineglassfuls of wine or brandy into a basin, and mix them thoroughly. If possible let this mixture remain for three days, then add eight well-wliisked eggs; turn the mixture into a cloth or tin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil for five hours, by which time it should be done. Take it out of the cloth or tin, put it on a disli, and serve. (7) Put Jib. each of crushed loaf sugar, washed and dried currants, and sultana raisins into a basin, and mix in Jib. of shred beef-suet, Jib. of grated lemon-peel, Jib. of Hour, Joz. of ground ginger, l teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and | teaspoonful of tartaric acid mixed with lib. of breadcrumbs, two well beaten eggs, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of ram or brandy, and lib. each of grated carrots and potatoes. Mix thoroughly, and pour in sufficient milk to moisten ; put it into a well-buttered basin, tie a cloth over, and boil the pudding in a saucepan of water for from six to eight hours. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (8) Mix Jib. of flour in a basin with Jib. of shred beef- suet, and add four eggs, gradually working each one in well with a spoon before another is added. Let the mix- ture remain for seven or eight minutes, then stir in Jib. each of crushed loaf sugar, stoned raisins, washed and dried currants, a small quantity each of salt, lemon zest, and grated nutmeg, a couple of powdered cloves, 6oz. of candied citron-peel chopped up very small, 6 or 7 table- spoonfuls of brandy, and three large apples, pared, cored, and finely minced. Have ready a channelled cylinder- mould, butter it well inside, dredge it with Hour, and put in the pudding mixture. Set the mould hi a sauce- 1 ian with water to half its height, put it on the fire, boil the water, and then remove the saucepan; put it in a quick oven, and let the pudding bake for an-hour-and-a half. Take the mould out of the saucepan, wipe it dry, turn the pudding out on to a dish, and pour over J wine- glassful of brandy and rum, in equal proportions, mixed with a little apricot marmalade to thicken it. (9) Put into a bowl or large basin 12oz. each of sifted breadcrumbs, crushed loaf sugar, stoned raisins, well-washed and dried currants, and finely-shred beef-suet; mix in 2oz. _ each of chopped candied orange and citron peels, the grated rind of a lemon, and a couple of russet apples, pared, cored, and cut up into small pieces. Sprinkle over a small quantity of salt and ground cloves, pour in 1 tea- cupful of rum, and beat six eggs in singly. Put the pudding into a buttered basin or plain mould, set it on a trivet in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for four hours, adding more boiling water as the other evaporates. Dredge caster sugar over a dish, turn the pudding out on to it, pour round 1 breakfast-cupful of warm ram, ignite it, and serve immediately. If preferred, a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce may be substituted for the breakfast-cupful of ram. Plum Puddings—continued. (10) Have ready 3oz. of malaga raisins, well picked, place them in a stone jar with J pint of old sherry, adding 3oz. of candied cherries cut into quarters, loz. of finely-chopped candied citron, and 2oz. of candied apricots, also cut into small pieces, then with the spatula mix gently together for one minute-and-a-half. Cover the jar and let them infuse for fully twelve hours. Prepare a chocolate cream ice, and just before removing it from the freezer add the above fruit preparation, mixing well with the spatula for ten minutes. Put on the cover and freeze again for five minutes longer. Take a 3-pint melon mould and fill it with the pudding preparation, put it in a pail containing broken ice and rock salt, cover it well with more ice and salt, and allow it to freeze for fully two hours. In the meantime prepare the following sauce: Put in a sauce- boat the yolks of two eggs with loz. of powdered sugar, place it on a slow stove, and with a whisk stir briskly, adding gradually 1 gill of brandy. Heat it well, but it must not boil, take it from the fire, set the pan on a table, and continue stirring for two minutes. Add 1 pint of well- whipped vanilla cream, mixing the whole well together with the whisk for two minutes. Pour the sauce into a china bowl, and place it in the ice box. Have a vessel ready containing warm water, lift the mould from the box, plunge it into the water to remove the ice and salt adhering, turn out the pudding, and place it on a dish with a fancy paper cover. Beat the sauce well, transfer it to a saucebowl, and send it to the table with the plum pudding. Plum Pudding without Suet.—(1) Put Jib. of Hour into a basin, and mix with it Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, and 1 breakfast-cupful each of grated carrots and potatoes; slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat in with it 2oz. of sugar; then work them in with the above in- gredients, moistening with water. Butter a pudding basin, turn the mixture into it, and tie a cloth over the top. Boil the pudding for an-hour-and-a half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce poured over. (2) Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a lined saucepan with 1J pints of milk, and boil it gently until soft. Beat in with the rice 5 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2oz. of butter, fib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, 5oz. of moist sugar, and five well-beaten eggs. Butter a fancy-shaped mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over, and boil for six hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out on to a hot dish, and serve. Scotch Plum Pudding.—Prepare in the usual way Jib. of beef suet and Jib. of raisins, put them in a basin, and mix with them Jib. of caster sugar, 4oz. of breadcrumbs, 2oz. of thinly-slued candied peel, and lib. of marmalade. Beat five eggs well, and stir them in with the above ingredients, mixing the whole smoothly together. Turn the mixture into a buttered basin, tie a floured cloth over it, and boil for five hours. Prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Blanch and pound 2oz. of sweet almonds, moistening them occasionally with a small quan- tity of rose-water to prevent their oiling. Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy together with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then beat in the pounded almonds and 1 wineglassful of pale brandy. When the pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve with the cold sauce. POACHING.—By a remarkable metamorphosis this word, which was originally derived from the French poche —a pocket, in allusion to the yolks of poached eggs being pocketed as it were within the whites, has been by the French cooks themselves extended to a system of slow cooking or stewing, and is applied to almost any kind of food, especially oysters and mussels. “ To poach at the oven door ” is a common expression of the Continental cook, whereas the British cook adheres strictly to the original meaning. To poach eggs the water should be slightly acidulated with lemon-juice, and boiling hot, in a shallow pan, before the eggs are dropped in. A little salt in the water