THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 310 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. fire until the sugar melts, breaking the fruit with a wooden spoon, and boil until the jam will stiffen if a little is put on a plate. Then pack away in jars. (2) Boil lib. of sugar to each pound of Raspberries in a preserving-pan, and when nearly done add to each pint of jam jr pint of red-currant jelly. Let it boil for a few minutes, stirring well, then take the pan off the stove, let the jam cool a little, put it into jars, and cover in the usual way. (3) Put 2lb. of red currants into a preserving-pan, bruise them, and add 121b. of Raspberries and 1 pint of water. Place the saucepan on the fire and stir well for a few minutes, then pass the whole through a fine sieve, rubbing it well, into a large earthenware pan. Put 121b. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with sufficient water to dissolve it, and boil to the pearl degree (see Sugar boiling). Add the fruit pulp, boil quickly for twenty minutes, stirring continually, by which time the jam should be done and hang from the spoon. Let it get cold in pots or jars, cover with paper soaked in brandy or white of egg, then with bladder or paper, and keep them in a cool place until wanted. Raspberry-Jam Pudding.—Blanch 2oz. of sweet and a dozen bitter almonds, and beat them together; put them in a basin with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, tlh. of sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Beat four eggs well and stir them in with the ingredients in the basin, adding-also jib. of slightly-warmed butter. Butter a baking-dish and spread a thick layer of Raspberry jam at the bottom, then pour in the mixture in the basin. Stand this dish inside a larger one containing a little water, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the pudding in the same dish. Raspberry Jelly.—(1) Remove the tops and pick carefully over 1 pint of freshly-gathered Raspberries; put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and stir them till hot, then strain them through a jelly-bag. Mix with the liquor loz. of dissolved isinglass and ilb. of caster sugar; stir the whole over the lire till hot, then strain it Fig. 364. Raspberry Jelly. through a fine hair sieve. Pour the jelly into a mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on to a dish, garnish with candied fruit (see Fig. 364), and serve. (2) Soak joz. of gelatine in 4 table-spoonfuls of water, put it in an earthenware jar, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until dissolved. Add 1 breakfast- cupful of Raspberry syrup, stir well, pour the jelly into a mould packed in ice, turn it out on to a dish when firm, and serve. (3) Pour 41b. of Raspberry-juice into a preserving-pan over the fire and boil quickly for about twenty minutes, then add 34lb. of loaf sugar, removing the pan from the fire while stirring it until it is dissolved, and then boiling quickly again for another fifteen minutes. Skim well, pour Raspberries -continued. the jelly into jars, cover them when cold, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Juice.—Put the required quantity of Raspberries into a preserving-pan, bruise them well, boil for a few minutes, pass the juice through a fine sieve or jelly-bag, and it is ready for use. Raspberry Jujubes.—Put lib. of gum Arabic into a basin, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, soak, and strain it into a sugar-boiler. Add 14oz. of sugar and stir well over the fire until the syrup reaches the small pearl degree (see Sugar boiling), then add 1 teacupful of filtered Raspberry-juice and a little colouring of cochineal. Remove the boiler from the fire, stir well, skim off all the scum, pour the mixture into impressions made in starch powder, such as are used for pastilles or bonbons, turn them out when cold, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Raspberry syrup into a large glass with a liqueur-glassful of brandy, fill up with crushed ice, arrange a few sprays of Raspberries on the top, dust over with sugar, and drink through straws. Raspberry Liqueur.—(1) Pick lqt. of ripe Raspberries, put them into a large bottle with 2qts. of pure spirits, cork it tightly, and keep it in a warm place for a month. At the end of that time put 21b. of lump sugar into 3 pints of water and boil it. When small transparent bubbles form on the top of the syrup, take it off the fire and leave until cold. Filter the liqueur through a piece of flannel and mix the syrup with it. Pour the liqueur into small bottles, cork them well, and put away for use. (2) Put into a jar 31b. of Raspberries, using red and white in equal proportions, and add double the quantity of sugar, lqt. of distilled water, and 3qts. of plain or silent spirit. Cork up securely, sealing if necessary. Give the jar a shake daily for a week, strain through flannel and filter through paper, add cochineal or cudbear to colour, bottle off into clear glass bottles, and use as required. Raspberry Marmalade.—To each pound of Raspberries allow 4lb. of sugar. Hull and pick the Raspberries, rub them through a sieve, and put the pulp over the fire; stir it constantly till reduced to one half. Have ready some sugar clarified and boiled to the little ball (see Sugar- boiling), and when the Raspberry pulp is reduced to half its original quantity pour it over it; mix them well together, give the marmalade a few boils, take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and put it into pots. When quite cold, lay over the marmalade in each pot a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover air-tight. Raspberry Marzipan.—Mix together with a wooden spatula 411». of marzipan, 2oz. of Raspberry jelly, a little cochineal, and the strained juice of two lemons. When these are well mixed, add some powdered white sugar and about 3oz. of flour. When the paste is well worked up roll it into pieces about the size of a finger. Cut the fingers into dice, each of which roll into a ball pointed at one end like a Raspberry. But each of these into a separate paper case, and place them in a dry warm place for nine or ten days. Then put a little powdered white sugar, a little cochineal, and some syrup of Raspberries into a pan, stir them well together with a spoon, and throw a few of the Rasp- berries into it. Take the pan in both hands and shake it about so as to cover the Raspberries equally with the red syrup. Have some coarsely-crushed loaf sugar spread over a large sheet of paper, take the Raspberries out of the syrup, lay them on the crushed loaf sugar, lift the paper up by its two sides, and roll the Raspberries about in the sugar till it sticks all over them. Take them out of the sugar carefully and lay them separately on paper; put a few more Raspberries into the syrup, roll them about in it and in the paper of sugar. When all are done anil laid separately on paper, put them into a warm place for some days before putting them in boxes. They will keep for years. Raspberry Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with Raspberry shrub, and fill up with brandy and Eau d’Or (liqueur) in equal quantities. Drink at once.