282 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. neglect some of those grown at home. It is to be desired, however, that apple pie should never go out of fashion, and ' Quinces have this curious virtue : that being of little value | themselves—not nearly so good as apples—they improve 1 an apple pie beyond the power of words to describe.” j The common Quince (Cydonia vulgaris) takes its name from Cydon (now Candia) in the Isle of Crete. It is stated by some authors to have been introduced from Greece to Italy, “but this can only refer,” says Lindley, “ to a particular variety, for Pliny, in his fifteenth book, says: ‘ There are many kinds of this fruit in Italy, some growing wild in the hedgerows, others so large that they weigh the boughs down to the ground.’ Sir Joseph Banks states that the Romans had three sorts of Quinces, one of which was called Chrysomela from its yellow colour. They boiled them with honey as we make our marmalade. According to the best modern botanists, the species grow spontaneously on the hills and in the woods of Italy, in the South of France, in Spain, Sicily, Sardinia, Algeria, Constantinople, the Crimea, and in the south of the Caucasus; they also grow abundantly on the banks of the Danube.” According to Drs. Roxburgh and Royle, the Quince is found in Cashmere, and even in the North of India, and “De Candolle thinks its native country extends perhaps as far as Hindoo-Coosh ; but it is not cultivated in the north of China. In Imiretta, a region in the Fig. 236. Portugal Quince. interior of Mingrelia, a variety is said to have been found with fruit as big as the head of a child. It appears from the foregoing that the Quince is indigenous over a great extent of Europe and Asia, and that it is likewise found in the North of Africa. Phillip says, in his ‘ Historical and Botanical Account of Fruits known in Great Britain,’ ‘ The learned Goropius maintains that Quinces were the golden apples of the Hesperides, and not oranges, as some commentators pretend. In support of his argument he states that it was a fruit much revered by the ancients, and he assures us that there has been discovered at Rome a statue of Hercules that held in his hand three Quinces.’ ‘ This,’ he says, ‘ agrees with the fable which states that Hercules stole the golden apples from the gardens of the Hesperides.’ ” Galesio, in his treatise on the orange, has shown that the orange tree was unknown to the Greeks, and that it did not naturally grow in those parts where the gardens of the Hesperides were placed by them. The Quince tree, according to the “ Hortus Kewensis,” was introduced into this country in 1573, but Gerarde, who was alive at that date, says it was often planted in hedges and fences to gardens in his time, and from this it may be Quinces—continued. concluded the tree was common long before the period above mentioned. The fruit of the Quince is large, roundish, or regular oval, according to the variety; the Portugal Quince (see Fig. 336) being the best. As they ripen they assume a beautiful golden colour, but have a strong odour with an austere flavour, which renders them unfit for eating raw. They are, however, much esteemed when prepared according to any of the following receipts: Bran died Quinces.—Peel 41b. of small ripe Quinces, and boil them in a small quantity of water for half-an-hour, then drain, and leave them until cool. Put ‘21b. of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a little of the water in ■which the Quinces were cooked, boil for ten minutes, add the Quinces, and continue boiling quickly for half-an-hour, then drain the Quinces, and put them into jars. Boil the syiup till thickly reduced, turn it into a basin, and leave till cold. Mix in an equal quantity of brandy, pour it over the Quinces, anil cover the inrs with papers that have been dipped in white of egg. Pickled Quinces.—Pare and cut half-a-dozen Quinces into small pieces, put them, together with lgall. of water and 21b. of honey, into a large saucepan, mix well together, and set them on a slow fire for half-an-hour, then strain the liquor into a jar. When quite cold, wipe the Quinces perfectly dry, put them into the liquor, and cover closely. Preserved Quinces.—(1) Carefully peel and core the required quantity of Quinces, removing both from parings and fruit everything that is not perfectly good. Cut the Quinces either into quarters or across into slices, put them in a preserving-pan over the fire in a very little water, and cover them with the parings. Place the lid on the pan to keep the steam in, and let the fruit simmer till soft. Take out the slices or quarters of Quinces, and strain the liquor in the pan through a jelly-bag. Put the strained juice again over the fire in the pan, together with lib. of loaf sugar to every pint, of juice, and keep stirring this till the sugar has completely melted, and has come to the boil, then let it boil for ten minutes, skimming off the scum as it rises. Put in the quarters or slices of Quinces, and let them simmer in the syrup for twenty minutes. When they look clear and are well sweetened, lift them out with a skimmer, first taking the pan from the fire, and put them into glass jars. Let the syrup cool a little, and pour it over them warm. When quite cold, lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, and cover the jars air-tight. (2) Prick some Quinces, boil till soft, drop them into cold water, peel them, prick them again right to the middle, put them in a preserving-pan with some thin syrup that has been boiled to the small thread (see Sugar boiling), and boil them for two or three minutes; then take the pan off' the fire, skim the syrup, and turn all into an earthenware pan. On the following day again put the Quinces in the preserving-pan with fresh syrup, and boil to one degree more. Repeat this boiling for four days, the last day boiling the syrup to the large pearl. Turn the Quinces into jars, pour the syrup over them, and keep them covered. They are then ready for use. (3) Peel and core 5lb. of Quinces, put them in a stewpan with lib. of powdered white sugar and f pint of water, place the pan over the fire, and when the Quinces get dry moisten them with a little rose-water and white wine; cook until soft, then take them from the pan, rah them through a coarse sieve, put the pulp back again over the fire, and add ‘21b. of sugar and a little orange-flower water and rose-water, and boil for a short time longer. A little of it dropped on a plate or saucer will come off clean when it is sufficiently boiled. Take the pan from the fire, let the Quince paste cool a little, and put it into shallow glass jars. Scatter perfumed comfits over the paste in each jar, and close them air-tight. Quince-and-Apple Butter.—Use twice as many sour apples as Quinces, and half their combined weight of sugar. Pare, quarter, and core the Quinces, tying the cores and peelings in a thin cloth; put both Quinces and cores into a- porcelain-lined pan with just enough cold water to