THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 206 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Plovers—continued. very little butter, put them on a spit, and roast for ten minutes. Remove from the fire, arrange six small canapes for game on a hot dish, dress the birds on them, garnish with a little watercress (see Fig. 261), and serve. (3) Pick, clean, and draw the required number of Plovers, and stuff them with the entrails chopped up with parsley, shallots, trimmings of bacon, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover them first with slices of bacon, then with paper, and roast them before a clear fire until they are done. Put some stewed mushrooms on a dish, place the Plovers on them, and serve. Salmis of Plovers.—Pluck and singe four Plovers, remove the gizzards and crops, truss them, cover with slices of fat bacon, and roast. When done, cut them into quarters, remove the hones and skins, put them into a saucepan with the legs underneath and the fillets on top, and brush over with a little glaze. Set the pan in the bain-marie and keep the birds warm. Put the bones into a saucepan with a few vegetables cut in pieces, a few slices of ham, and some broth, reduce it to glaze, add a little more broth, boil again; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little whole spice, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, skim it, boil for an hour, strain it, and clarify with a little minced uncooked game-flesh. Take out the intestines of the Plovers, put them into a frying-pan with a couple of chicken’s livers, and a few thin slices of bacon, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and fry until they are all done. Turn the mixture into a mortar, pound it well, pass it through a fine sieve, and stir in a little glaze to form a sauce. Have ready eight crofitons of bread fried in butter, cover them with the liver mixture, raising it a little in the centre, brush over a little glaze, and put them in the oven with the door open to keep hot until wanted. Put the quartern of Plovers on a dish, garnish with the crofitons of Med bread, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve. Salmis of Plover d la Maison d’Or.—Pick, singe, and draw six Plovers, remove the eyes and skin from the heads, wipe them, sprinkle over with salt, put them into a roasting pan, and cook for four minutes ; then cut off the legs and necks, keeping the heads for after use. Cut up half a carrot and onion, put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, add a small bouquet garni and six whole peppers, cook for five minutes, and add 1 break- fast-cupful of Spanish sauce, h wineglassful of sherry, and 3 table spoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Run the bills through good-sized mushrooms, stick them into the breasts of the birds, put them into a saute-pan, strain over the liquor, and add twelve mushrooms cut into halves, and the zest of a lemon. Cook for six minutes, place them on a dish, strain over the sauce, and serve with crofitons of fried bread covered with cooked goose’s fat livers for garnish. Stewed Plovers.—Draw and clean four Plovers, put them in a saucepan with a few truffles peeled and cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and add 1 wineglassful of white wine and sufficient brown gravy to moisten them to height. Put the pan on the fire, and when the birds are done, put them as well as the truffles on a dish, and pour over the strained sauce. Stewed Plovers with Bourguignotte Sauce.—Pluck, draw, and truss four or five Plovers, put them in a saucepan with a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom, pour over a little broth to moisten, put the pan on the fire, and cook the birds until done. Take them out, put them into another saucepan with bourguignotte sauce, and let the contents simmer for a few minutes. Take the Plovers out of this, arrange them on a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. PLUCK.—This consists of the heart, liver, and lights of an animal, and is so-called on account of its being plucked out after slaughtering. PLUMS {Ft. Prunes ; Ger. Pflaumen; Hal. Susine; <Sp. Ciruela).—This name, which is synonymous with the Plums—continued. Anglo-Saxon Plume, is applied to an immense variety of fruit of the Prunus family (see Fig. 262). Amongst those of importance to the cook or confectioner are the Orleans, Greengage, Magnum-bonum, Damson, Mirabelle, and Black Plum of Germany, and these, when sweet and ripe, may be used for dessert. As many of the following Fig. 262. plums. receipts apply to other Plums besides those mentioned, we have not ventured upon any special classification (see Prunes). The following are the average amounts of sugar found in the different varieties of Plums : Mirabelle (common yellow), 3'584 per cent; yellow-green, 2-960 ; large green, 3'405 ; black-blue, 1-996; dark black-red, 2"252; Mussel (common), 5-793; (Italian), 6-730. Bottled Plums.—(1) Take the required quantity of Plums, prick them all over, and drop them into a preserving-pan with some syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) just removed from the fire. When all the Plums are put in, place the pan in the hot screen or over a charcoal fire, where the syrup will become quite hot. Take out the Plums carefully, put them in a basin, and let them remain for twenty- four hours or so. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles, boil the syrup up once more, skim it well, and when nearly cold, pour it into the bottles over the Plums. Cork the bottles, tie down securely, put them into a saucepan with water to the shoulders of the bottles, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take them out when cold, and the preserve is ready for use. (2) Remove the stalks from the Plums and put them into wide-mouthed bottles, shake them down closely with- out injuring them, and fill up the bottles with cooled syrup at 22deg. (see Syrups). Cork and tie down the bottles, put them into a saucepan with water up to their shoulders, and boil for twenty minutes. Take them out when cold, and the preserve is ready for use. Candied Plums.—Take some good-sized ripe Plums of a nice shape, cut them in halves, and stone them. Lay them on a shallow dish, dredge plenty of powdered white sugar over, put them into a moderate oven, and keep the door shut for half-an-hour; then take them out, and lay the Plums separately on glass plates to dry. Compote of Plums.—(1) Cut short the stalks from the required quantity of Plums, prick them all over, drop them into a sugar-boiler of syrup, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then pour the Plums and syrup into a basin. Put the Plums into a compote-dish or case with their stalks