208 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. $ breadcrumbs, 2oz. of butter beaten until creamy, 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Butter a shallow tin, line it with a thin tart crust, and spread half of the above mixture over it. Cut some Plums into halves lengthwise, and lay them, with the cut side upwards, all over the paste; strew sugar over them and cover with the remainder of the crumb mixture. Bake the cake in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. Plum Candy. -Peel some white Plums, fill a jar with them, and put it over the fire in a saucepan of boiling water. When the Plums are done enough pour oft' the clear juice. For each pint of juice allow lib. of loaf sugar, which should be clarified and boiled to candy (see SUGAR BOILING) ; then add the juice of the Plums, and stir constantly till quite hot, but do not let it boil. Pour it into glasses, and set them in the stove to dry. Plum Cream-Ice.—Put Iqt. of the pulp of freshly-gathered Plums into a basin and work in lib. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, pour over Iqt. of cream, beat them well together, pass the mixture through a fine sieve into the freezer, turn it out into a mould packed in ice, and when it has set it is ready for use. Plum-and-Damson Jam.—Stone 611>. each of Plums and damsons, and put them into a preserving pan with 121b. of crushed loaf sugar and a little water. Place the pan on the fire, boil the contents, skimming frequently, and when the jam is done, pour it into jars; let them get quite cold, cover with paper or skin, and the jam is ready for use. Plum Pool.—Wipe some large Plums with a damp cloth, ake a slit down the side of each, and put them in a jar with till, of sugar and 1 pint of water to every 21b. of fruit; cover the jar, stand it in a saucepan, pour in boiling water to three-parts the height of the jar, and boil until the Plums are soft. Leave the Plums in the jar until the following day, then pass them through a wire sieve. Crack the stones and put them, with any skins of Plums that may have been left in the sieve, into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, a small piece of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of crushed cloves, and boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve over the fruit, pour in sufficient light red wine and water mixed in equal quantities to make a smooth weak syrup, ami sweeten to taste. Pour the stew into a bowl and stand it on ice until cold. Finely slice a roll, cut each slice into small squares, put them on a baking-sheet, dredge over sugar, and glaze them in a brisk oven or under a salamander. When the squares of bread are cold, lay them in with the fruit (see Fig. 264), that also being cold, and serve. Plum Jam.—(1) Select 121b. of large ripe Plums, peel them, divide them into halves, crack their stones, blanch the kernels, and pound them in a mortar. Put the parings and cracked stones into a pan with the juice of a very red beetroot, that has been pressed out in a mortar, and 6 pints of water, and boil it until reduced to half the original quantity, uien strain through a fine wire sieve. ^ Put the fruit in a preserving-pan with the strained liquor, the pounded kernels, and 1341b. of coarsely-crushed loaf Plums—continued. sugar. Place the pan over a moderate fire, and stir the contents until reduced to a still' jam. Turn it into jam pots and let it stand for several hours. \\ hen quite cold, sift a small quantity of caster sugar in each jar of jam’ cover them with rounds of paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, tie them down, and put them away for use. (2) See that the Plums are quite clean and dry, and allow 31b. of sugar to 41b. of Plums. Put the Plums into a pre- serving-pan on the fire and let them boil gently for three- quarters of-an hour, stirring to prevent them burning. As the stones rise to the surface take them out and crack nearly half of them. When the Plums have boiled for three-quarters-of-an-hour put in the sugar and boil for another quarter-of an hour; keep stirring, remove all the scum as it rises, and four minutes or so before it is done throw in the kernels. When a little cooled, put it into jars; when quite cold, cover with white paper soaked in brandy, and fasten over the top with white paper dipped in white of egg, beaten up but not to a froth. Plum Jam made without Sugar.—(1) Remove the stones from about 8lb. of ripe Plums, wipe them clean with a cloth, put them in a saucepan, and boil until soft. Pass the pulp of the Plums through a coarse sieve to separate the skin and stones, put it in a preserving pan, with seven or eight young green walnuts in their outer shells, and a small quantity of pounded cloves, and boil the mixture until reduced to a thick mass, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. Turn the jam into jars, and leave it until quite cold (in fact it will be all the better if left until the following day); then cover it first with rounds of white paper dipped in brandy and afterwards with parch- ment, the latter being tied securely round the jar with fine twine. (2) Pick the stalks oft' 61b. of ripe Plums and 31b. of elderberries; put the elderberries in a saucepan ami boil them until all the juice is extracted. Wipe the Plums with a cloth, stone them, and put them in a preserving-pan with the thinly-shred peel of half a lemon and | table- spoonful each of pounded cinnamon and cloves. Strain the elderberry-juice over the Plums through a fine hair sieve, and boil them, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Boil the jam until reduced to a thick pulp, then turn it into jars. When the jam is cold, put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover them with parchment, tying it down securely. Plum Jelly.—Put 411). of Plums into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water and let them stew gently for thirty minutes. Then put a sieve over an earthenware basin, pour the stewed fruit into it, and let all the juice drain through into the basin. Pour the juice into a preserving-pan, and to every breakfast-cupful add of white sugar and joz of gelatine. Let it come slowly to a boil, simmer for ten Fro. 265. Plum Jelly. or twelve minutes, and put it into moulds, or glasses when cool. Serve on a silver tray with spoons (see Fig. 265). The Plums left in the sieve may be boiled for ten minutes with half their weight of sugar, and used as a preserve. Plum Marmalade.—(1) Stone and peel some ripe Plums, lay them in a deep dish, and cover thickly with caster sugar put them in a cool place, and leave until the next morn ing. Put them in a preserving-pan with lib. of crushed loaf sugar for every lib. of fruit, weighing them after they