THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 219 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. the water every day; then scrape it and leave it a couple of days longer, changing the water as before. Scrape the head again, wash it well, put it in a saucepan, cover well with water, and boil until the bones will leave the meat easily. More water should be poured in as the quantity diminishes. When sufficiently cooked, take the head out of the hot water, put it into milk-warm water for a few minutes, then turn it into cold water with a lump of salt. Clean the ears and boil them until tender; then drain and chop them while still hot, seasoning well with salt and pepper. Chop the meat of the head and put it with the ears into a press (see Fig. 278), pressing it down tightly, then put a weight on the top and leave until cold. (4) Trim off the fat and skin from some cold cooked Pork, chop the lean very finely, and mix with it two grated potatoes and a finely- minced shallot; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and work in sufficient soui- cream to bind it. When well mixed, turn the prepara- tion into a baking dish and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the Pork cake on to a hot dish, garnish it with pickles, and serve. Pork Chops Sautes.—Take six thick Pork chops, pare and flatten them, and season with a pinch each of salt and pepper. Put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and cook on the stove for six minutes on each side. Arrange the chops on a hot dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, and add l breakfast-cupful of broth. Let it come to a boil, strain over the chops, and serve. Pork Collops.—Finely-mince 111), of Pork, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped fat bacon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs; season the mix- ture with salt and pepper, and bind it with two well- beaten eggs. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley in a stewpan with the same quantity of minced chives, a small quantity of sage, and a very small quan- tity of tarragon. Put a lump of butter in the pan with the herbs, and cook them for a few minutes over a slow fire, stirring them constantly. Put the collops in with the herbs, pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and sufficient clear gravy to prevent them burning. Let them simmer gently at the edge of the fire for half-an-hour, turning them at the end of ten minutes to the other side. Peel and parboil a few fine potatoes, then slice them, and fry them until delicately browned in butter. When cooked, arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish and put the fiied potatoes in the centre. Mix more well-seasoned gravy with that in which the collops were cooked, boil it up, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve with the collops. Fork Croquettes.—(1) Chop up lib. of cold roasted Pork, mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, put them into a saucepan with \ pint of good stock, and add two shallots and onions finely-minced, a little powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until the onions and shallots are quite done. Turn the mixture out on to a board, and make it up into the form of sausages; flatten them a little, dip them first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, and put them into a frying- pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are done. Put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Finely-chop l^lb. of fat Pork, and mix 4oz. of finely- grated breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs with it. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, shape it into balls, then flatten them; dip the collops in beaten egg, then put them in a frying-pan in which a lump of butter Fork—continued. has been melted, and fry them till lightly browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely mince about lib. of cold roast Pork; mix loz. of flour in a stewpan with \ pint of clear stock, and put in a moderate-sized finely-chopped onion and two chopped shallots. Boil them until tender, then put in the pieces of meat with a small quantity of finely-chopped sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, then turn it on to a plate and leave it until cool. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, mould them into balls, and roll them in beaten egg and finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when boiling, put in the croquettes and fry them until nicely and evenly browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley or water- cress, and serve. (4) Make some sausage meat of two-thirds Pork lean and one-third Pork fat, anti add an equal amount of bread- crumbs taken from a stale household loaf. Add 2oz. of butter, a little ground allspice, pepper and salt to taste, and put them all into a mortar. Pound well together, and work in the yolks of two eggs to make a consistent mass. Make it into balls and fry them, or use it for stuffing. Pork Cutlets and Anchovy Sauce.—Take seven nicely cut and trimmed cutlets of Pork, and broil them on a hot well-greased gridiron over a clear fire. Put some Fig. 279. Pork Cutlets with Anchovy Sauce. anchovy sauce warmed on a very hot dish, place frills on the bones of the Pork cutlets, lay them round the dish, overlapping each other (see Fig. 279), and serve very hot. Garnish the dish freely with fried parsley. Pork Forcemeat with Bacon.—Cut lib. of lean Pork and the same quantity of lean bacon into slices, and put them in a stewpan with just sufficient water to prevent the meat from sticking to the bottom of the pan, and add 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and an onion cut into small pieces. Place the cover over the pan, put it on the fire, and leu the contents simmer gently until the meat is quite tender, then take it out, and mince very fine. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of milk into the pan with the gravy, and add a little mace, herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and six eggs well beaten; stir them up well and then add the meat. Take a circular tin dish, line it with a light paste, and put the mixture in; cover with a lid of paste, make a small hole in the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done. When cold turn it out of the dish, and serve. Pork Fritters.—Cut some slices of Pork, and fry them till well cooked through. Beat two eggs with 1 teacupful of sour milk, then sift in sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring it at the same time to keep it smooth ; add a pinch of salt. Drain the pieces of Pork and dip them into the batter, giving them a thick coating, then return them to the frying-pan in which they were first fried, and brown the batter. When cooked, drain the Pork, arrange it on a hot dish, and serve. Fig. 278. Pork-cheese Press.