356 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. regarded more in the light of compotes. The meaning of the word Salad is literally that which is eaten with salt, and is therefore scarcely applicable. Compound Salads will be found described under their particular headings, such as Anchovy, Artichoke, Asparagus, Cress, &c. Other kinds are dealt with in the receipts following this article. The simplest form of Salad would be made by wiping perfectly dry a few leaves of lettuce, cutting them into broad shreds, and then dressing them as follows: Put the lettuce in a deep Salad-bowl (see Pig. 423) fitted with a pah- of servers, one partaking of the character of a spoon (see Fig. 424), and the other that of a fork (see Fig. 425). Supposing the bowl to be about two-thirds full of the lettuce, and having ascertained that it is carefully dried, pour into the spoon four charges of best Lucca oil, and mix this freely into the leaves, stirring vigorously with both servers. Next dust in sufficient salt to season nicely, then pour into the spoon about 1 teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, fill the spoon up with the best malt vinegar, and stir this in briskly. The Salad is then ready to be served. From this simple plan of mixing a Salad many deviations can be made, and a variety of other herbs used and introduced, for many of which the highest virtues are claimed. A celebrated authority tells us that lettuce is a powerful sedative, and that endive is a cure for gout, as well as possessing some of the virtues of coffee, for which the ground dried root (chicory) is often sub- stituted. Beetroot is a purifier and strengtliener of the blood. Cucumber impi-oves the com- plexion ; dandelion stimulates the liver; tomato and celery stimu- late the amorous inclinations of man; and onions are provocative of love in woman. Any of these, therefore, have two qualities to recommend them, medicinal and nutritive, their effects and flavours being delicately enhanced by the use of Salad oil. When prepared dressing is not served with a Salad, oil and vinegar, both of the very best quality, should be set on the table; and for holding these nothing can be more convenient than two jug-shaped bottles in a frame (see Fig. 42(3). Besides the receipts for salads given under special headings, the following will be found very acceptable: Bohemia Salad.—Wash and well dry some lettuces, cut them into shreds, and put them in a Salad-bowl, with some slices of beetroot on the top. Beat up the yolks of two raw eggs with a little chopped onion, salt, and mustard; when well beaten, add 3 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, a little at a time, beating well. Pour this dressing over the lettuce, and serve at once. Bouquet Salad.—Wash two bunches of watercress, and keep them in ice water till crisp; then take them out, Fig. 427. Bouquet Salad. shake all the water from them, and tear them into pieces. Chop four hard-boiled eggs, and prepare a Salad cream, mixing 1 teaspoonful of sugar with it. Place a layer of Salads—continued. the watercress in a dish, put in a few nasturtium flowers or buttercups, sprinkle over half the egg, and pour in half the dressing. Repeat this, put a wreath of flowers round and a few in the centre (see Fig. 427), and serve. Brunswick Salad.—Peel and cut a fresh celery-root into line shreds, and soak it in water for a-quarter-of-an-lmur. Peel and boil four truffles for three minutes in a little Madeira wine. Rub the inside of a basin with a clove of garlic, put in it the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs, and mash them to a smooth paste with a spoon; then add 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 teacupful of oil, and a little vinegar. Drain the celery-root ami truffles, and mix them with the eggs. Season the Salad, turn it into a Salad-bowl, sprinkle over it a little chopped tarragon and cloves, and serve. Convent Salad. -Cut some cold boiled potatoes into nice slices and peel and slice a cucumber, and mix them together in a Salad-bowl with a few minced chives and a small quantity of minced tarragon. Prepare a dressing with oil, sour cream, one well-beaten egg, and a small quantity of vinegar, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the dressing over the contents of the Salad- bowl, mix thoroughly, and serve. Country Salad.—Wash thoroughly in plenty of cold water some tender dandelion-leaves, an equal quantity of young dock-leaves, some wood sorrel, and young mint. Dry the herbs, put them in a Salad-bowl, with some chopped chives and nasturtium buds, season with salt and pepper, Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in some Salad- oil. Toss the Salad about lightly, garnish with wild flowers, and serve it. Dumas Salad.—Pound together a very small quantity of tunny and anchovy (about 1 teaspoonful of each); put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a Salad-bowl, with 1 table- spoonful of Salad-oil, and mash it to a paste; then mix in the pounded tunny and anchovy, and a small quantity of French mustard. Finely chop the white of the egg, a small pickled cucumber, a few stalks of chervil, and a little soy. Mix all the ingredients together in the Salad- bowl, with 1 wineglassful of wine vinegar, then arrange tastefully over the Salad a few slices each of boiled ] otatoes, beetroot, turn ip-rooted celery, and rampion, and season to taste with salt and Hungarian pepper. Stir the above mixture with a fork for about twenty minutes, then serve it. The above Salad is from a receipt designed ami much used by Alexander Dumas. Dutch Salad.—Skin and bone a herring, and cut it into small pieces; wash and bone eight or ten anchovies, and divide them into four pieces each. Take an equal quan- tity of each, of cold fowl and German sausage, and cut them into small square pieces. Chop in equal quantities some pickled gherkins and beetroot, and cut in rather large pieces twice the quantity of cold boiled potatoes. Mix all the ingredients, excepting the anchovies, together with one or two chopped hard-boiled eggs and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped capers. Prepare a dressing with two parts olive-oil ami one part tarragon vinegar, and mix smoothly in with it a small quantity of French mustard, seasoning to taste with white pepper. Pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve. Farmer’s Salad.—Thoroughly wash some dandelion-leaves, picking them over at the same time and removing all the bruised leaves. Put the leaves in water for five hours, then drain and wipe them on a cloth. Arrange the leaves in a Salad-bowl, grate ilb. of fresh made cottage cheese over them, and sprinkle over some finely-chopped onion. Put 1 dessert spoonful of flour in a small sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, pour in gra- dually a little less than 4 pint of milk, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then turn the milk into a basin, and leave it till cold. When cold, season the thickened milk with salt and pepper, and mix some fi nely-chopped sorrel and mint-leaves with it. Pour the dressing over the Salad, and serve it. Another way of making this is to mix together in a bowl some young onions, young beet- root tops, and leaves of mustard-seed, and then to pour over them a bacon Salad sauce. Fig. 426. Salad Frame (Adams and Son).