270 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. PUFFS.—A kind of light pastry already described under various headings; the secret of their manufacture is to make them as light and airy as possible. Prom the following receipts it will be seen that the Puif is very widely known. They must not be confounded with the French souffles, which they in some degree resemble. Cottage Puffs.—Mix together f pint each of milk and cream and the beaten yolks of six eggs; add then a sprinkling of salt and stir in the whites of the six eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Chop up 1 Joz. of butter, stir it in together with sufficient self-raising flour to make a thick hatter, pour it into muffin-rings, and bake in a quick oven. Serve sweet sauce with them. English Puffs.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk over the fire, let it boil up, and while boiling stir in enough flour to make a stiff batter of the consistency that if cold a spoon would stand up in it. Take it from the fire, let it cool a little, then add 1 saltspoonful of salt, 1 dessert spoonful of butter softened at the fire, drop in five eggs one at a time without previously beating them, and mix them into the batter. Have a pan of boiling lard over the fire, drop the Fig. 327. English Puff. batter into it in spoonfuls, and fry to a golden brown. Serve the Puffs at once, sprinkled with powdered white sugar. (2) Roll out some Puff paste a little more than fin. in thickness, cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 2 Jin. in diameter, then with a cutter 1 fin. in diameter mark a circle on each round. Beat an egg together with a little caster sugar. Lay the Puffs on baking-sheets, brash them over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg, and bake for half-an-liour- in a quick oven. When cooked, leave the Puffs till cold, lift out the centre, scoop out the in- side, then fill them with jam, replace the piece on the top, and serve (see Fig. 327). French. Puffs.—(1) Make fib. of Puff paste, roll it out to lft. square and Jin. in thickness, and cut it into rounds with a small fluted tin cutter. Brush a baking-sheet over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, lay the pieces of paste on it, and brush them over also with beaten egg; cut a small circle half through the paste in the centre of each, and bake them in a slow oven. When baked, sift caster sugar over the pieces of paste and glaze them. Remove the marked pieces of paste from the centre, and scoop out the soft paste; lay them on a clean sheet of paper to drain off the butter, then fill the hollowed centres with different coloured jams, and serve. (2) Make several small vol-au-vents with Puff paste, bake them, and when cooked press them hollow with the fingers, then leave them until cold. Mask the outsides with Italian meringue, and ornament with chopped pis- tachios. When the meringue has dried, fill the hollow of the vol-au-vents with preserved fruits, put them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve them. German Puffs.—(1) Put 1 saltspoonful of salt into f pint of milk, and let it stand until it is dissolved. Work 2oz. Puffs—continued. of butter to a cream; beat the yolks of three eggs with 3oz. of sugar; add this by degrees to the butter and stir it in; then mix in by degrees the | pint of salted milk. Shake in gradually 6oz. of flour, stirring all the time. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and lightly stir them in, adding six or seven drops of essence of vanilla. Half-fill some well-buttered teacups with this batter, and bake till nicely browned. They will take fifteen or twenty minutes. When they are done, serve immediately with sweet sauce. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with \ pint of cream, then stir in with them the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four, beaten separately; when smooth, add 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds and a little orange-flower water. Pour the mixture into buttered tins, and bake for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the Putt's out on a dish, and serve with wine sauce. Irish Puffs.—Blanch 6oz. of sweet almonds and ljoz. of bitter ones; put them in a mortar and bruise them rather coarsely, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water. Whisk the whites of three eggs together with 6oz. of caster sugar to a stiff froth, then mix them well with the almonds. Butter some small patty-pans, line them vdth a good Puff paste, and put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture in each. Dust over with plenty of caster sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. Serve either hot or cold. Italian Puffs.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder with lib. of flour, rub into it jib. of lard or dripping, mix it to a dough with a little cold water, roll it out thin, and cut it into fifteen or eighteen round pieces. Mix together Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs, fib. of cold meat, minced fine, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 tea- spoonful each of mixed herbs, finely-chopped onion, and sugar, pepper, and salt to taste, and J pint of milk; when all these are thoroughly incorporated, put some of the mixture on each piece of paste, fold the paste over it, moisten the edges with a little cold water or milk, and press them together. Grease a baking-tin well with lard or dripping, lay the Puffs in it, and put them in the oven, basting them three or four times during the baking with the grease in the tin. When taken out of the oven, lay them on kitchen paper to drain, and serve very hot. Prussian Puffs.—Beat three eggs together with a little flour and 1J pints of milk; then mix in some chopped mixed candied peel. Three-parts fill some cups with the batter, and bake. While they are cooking, prepare the following wine sauce: Put 1 teaspoonful of flour into a small saucepan with 2oz. of butter, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in J pint of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, flavour with grated nutmeg or lemon-peel, and continue stirring it over the fire until thick. When taken off the fire, mix 1 wineglassful of sherry and J wineglassful of brandy with the sauce. Turn the Putt's out of the cups on to a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Spanish Puffs.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter and loz. of sugar, bring it to the boil, and drop in Jib. of flour in one lot; stir it well to a smooth paste, and boil for five minutes longer. Remove the pan from the fire, let the mixture cool for fifteen minutes, then drop in an egg and beat with a wooden spoon until well and smoothly worked in; add two more eggs in the same way, and with a dessert-spoon drop the mixture in lumps into a saucepan of lard about to smoke. Only put in a few at a time, to allow for swell- ing, and fry them, but not too quickly, until they are well browned all over and quite double their original size. Take the pieces of paste out with a skimmer, drain them on paper, open them at the side, and fill with vanilla- flavoured cream. Sprinkle them liberally with icing sugar, and serve cold on a dessert-dish. Transparent Puffs.—Put J pint of water in a sauce- pan with ljoz. of butter, and boil it. Mix 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour with a little water, then stir the "boiling water gradually over it; return all to the sauce-