210 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. Plum Cakes—continued. day, drain the Plums from the syrup, sprinkle them with a little powdered white sugar, and dry in the stove. (2) Put the Plums into an earthenware jar, and pour over honey and water in equal quantities. Cover over the jar to exclude the air, and when the fruit is wanted for use wash them in cold water and dry them. They will last for eight or nine months in this way. If they are put into a jar in layers with cotton wool between them, they will remain fresh for a long time, if the jars are covered over and put in a place where the frost cannot get at the fruit. Stewed Plums.—Peel eighteen or twenty ripe Plums, cut them into halves, and stone them; put them into a sauce- pan with 1 pint of cold water, and add Jib. of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, ami when the contents boil, skim well and cook for five minutes, stirring slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the fruit. Remove the pan from the fire, and add immediately 1 gill of red curajoa, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the fruit into a bowl, let it cool, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. PLUM CAKES —It is impossible to say why confec- tioners use the word plum to indicate a certain kind of cake. As a matter of fact plum cakes usually consist of dried grapes in the form of raisins or grocer’s currants, and a variety of other things (except plums) too numerous to mention here, but which will be found enumerated in the following receipts: (1) Cream 1 Jib. of butter by warming and heating it in a basin with a wooden spoon, then add ljlb. of caster sugar; when well mixed, sift in slowly 2Jlb. of flour, and add loz. of salt. Chop finely lib. of dried cherries and 1 Jib. of mixed candied peel. Wash and dry lib. of currants, and add them to the flour and butter, with 8oz. of ground almonds, the grated peel of four lemons, 1 teaspoonful each of ground cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and coriander-seeds; and mix with twelve eggs, J pint of brandy and 1 gill of caramel or burnt sugar colouring, if the caramel is not attainable. Line a tin hoop (see Fig. 267), with double layers of buttered paper, turn in the mixture, and bake it for two-hours-and- a-half in a steady oven. (2) Work lib. of warm butter with the hand until creamed, and then add lib. of caster sugar; when thoroughly mixed, beat in twelve eggs, two or three at a time. Mix slowly in ljlb. of flour, 31b. of currants, washed and dried, Jib. of Fig. 267. Cake-hoop. Fig. 268. Round Cake-tin. chopped candied peel, and a few drops of essence of lemon. Pour the mixture, when thoroughly mixed, in a large cake- tin lined with buttered paper (see Fig. 268), and bake in a moderate oven. (3) Mix with 21b. of flour Joz. of carbonate of soda, a little less of cream of tartar, and fib. of caster sugar; work in Jib. of butter, and when quite smooth, add lib. of currants washed and dried, 2oz. of chopped candied peel, four eggs (which should be added one at a time), flavour with a little essence of lemon, and mix to a dough with milk. Butter sufficient cake-tins to hold the mixture, turn it in, and bake. (4) Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and a little more of cream of tartar in lib. of flour, and then work in 3oz. of lard; when quite smooth, add 4oz. of sugar, 31b. of currants washed and dried, and J teaspoonful of mixed spice. Make this into a dough with fresh milk, turn it into a buttered oblong cake-tin (see Fig. 269), and bake in a moderate oven. (5) Make a sponge by mixing together lib. of flour, 3 table-spoonfuls of yeast, and J pint of warm milk. Warm 4oz. of butter, but do not let it oil; mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, and beat until it becomes creamy, then add two eggs and 4oz. of flour. Mix up with the sponge and 1 lb. of currants, washed and dried ; heat all thoroughly together, turn it into a buttered cake-tin, and bake Tn a slow oven. (6) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, in which has been previously mixed 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder and J teaspoonful of salt; when quite smooth, add Jib. of moist sugar, 2oz. of chopped candied peel, fib. of currants that have been well washed and dried, fib. of chopped raisins, and a small nutmeg grated. Beat two eggs with a little milk and four drops of essence of almonds. Stir this into the flour, &c., adding more milk if required to make a dough. Butter a cake-tin, turn the mixture in, and bake for two hours. (7) Rub into 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour 1 breakfast- cupful of butter, and add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sugar, J teaspoonful each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed spices, Jib. of raisins chopped and stoned, Jib. of currants, the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, ) teacupful each of milk ami dark molasses, and 2 table-spoonfuls of any fruit syrup. If not dark enough, add a little melted chocolate. Bake in small tins, and ice over when cold. (8) Rub Jib. of fresh butter into lib. of caster sugar, add 1 dessert spoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia salt (saleratus), 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped raisins, 1 teacupful of sour milk, and 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Sprinkle in enough flour to make a dough. Knead well, roll out to lin. thick, and cut into oblong pieces; put them on greased baking sheets, and bake in a quick oven. (9) Mix together eighteen eggs, ljlb. each of flour, sugar, and butter, 21b. eacli of stoned raisins and well washed and dried currants, ljlb. of candied citron peel chopped small, two nutmegs grated, 21b. of almonds blanched and shredded, 2 table-spoonfuls each of powdered cinnamon and mace, 1 small teaspoonful of powdered cloves, the same of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of grated ginger, 2 wineglass fuls of wine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, and 1 breakfast- cupful of milk. Let it rise for three hours, then bake slowly, and let it stand in the oven a good while after it it is baked. (10) Thoroughly wash and dry 21b. of cun-ants; blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds with about one dozen bitter almonds. Put ljlb. of butter into a saucepan with | pint of cream, and place it over the fire until hot and the butter has melted; then move it off, and stir in the cliopped almonds with 3 wineglassfuls of sack. Beat the yolks of five eggs together with the whites of three eggs and 1J teacupfuls of fresh ale yeast, then strain them through a fine hair sieve and mix with the cream. Put 21b. of flour into a basin, and mix with it the currants, 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, one grated nutmeg, and 1 teaspoonful of powdered cloves or mace if liked; then stir in gradually the above mixture, and work the whole well together for a few minutes. Butter a cake tin, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven. The cake will require from two hours to two hours-and-a-half cooking. (11) Beat to a cream lib. of powdered loaf sugar and 12oz. of butter, add seven slightly-whisked eggs and 1 teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon and grated nutmeg; then mix well in lib. of flour, half at a time. Pour in 1 gill, of brandy, mix well again, and add Jib. each of