THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 313 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. (5) Imitation.—Put about 61b. of ripe Raspberries into a large jar, having first looked them over and picked out any that were rotten. Put 2Joz. of tartaric acid in 1 pint of cold water and stir it until dissolved, then pour it over the fruit in the jar. Let it remain untouched for twenty-four hours, then strain oft the juice without pressing the fruit. Measure the juice, and for every quart allow 2£lb. of pounded loaf sugar. Stir well until the sugar has dissolved and leave it for two days. Afterwards slum the acid, pour it into bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Raspberry-Vinegar Syrup.—Pass lqt. of Raspberry-juice through a fine sieve into an earthenware jar and let it ferment. In the meantime put 21b. of sugar into asugar- boiler, pour over 1 wineglassful each of water and vinegar, let the sugar dissolve, then boil to 33deg. (see Sugar BOILING). Pour in the fermented juice, boil to 32deg., skimming it carefully while boiling, let it cool, pour it into bottles, and when it is quite cold cork them up, and the syrup is ready for use. Raspberry "Water.—Put 41b. of picked Raspberries into an earthenware bowl, mash them well, and add 12 breakfast- cupfuls of water, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup, and a little cochineal to colour. Strain this mixture several times through a Haunel bag into a basin set on ice, and when quite cold it is ready for use. A little lemon-juice may be added if desired. Raspberry Water-Ice.—(1) Place in a basin Jib. of powdered sugar, squeeze in the juice of three lemons, and add 1 pint of picked and well cleaned Raspberries. \V ith a spatula beat briskly for five minutes; add lqt. of cold water, mix- ing again for one minute, and strain through a sieve into the freezer. Put on the lid and lay the freezer in an ice tub, filling in all round with broken ice, mixed with a little rock-salt. Turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a spoon detach the cream from all round the freezer and the bottom as well. Remove it and turn the handle sharply for three minutes more. LTncover and detach the cream as before, being careful that no salt or ice drops in. Put the lid on and repeat three times more. The cream should by this time be quite firm ; turn it out on to a cold dish over which has been spread a folded napkin and serve. (2) Put lib. of Raspberries and half the quantity of red currants into an earthenware bowl, bruise them, and add Jib. of sugar and 1 teacupful of water. Turn the whole into a saucepan, stir well until it boils, strain it back into the bowl, pour in 1 pint of syrup, and put it in the freezer until wanted for use. Raspberry Wine.—(1) To lqt. of picked Raspberries add lib. of powdered white sugar and lqt. of boiling water. Cover with a thin cloth and let it stand in a cool place for four days. Then strain through a coarse cloth and bottle it. Let it stand uncorked in the bottles for four days, then cork it up and put it in a very cool dry place. It will keep for twelve months. (2) For every pint of Raspberries allow 1 pint of cider. The Raspberries are best when gathered in fine dry weather, for if they are wet they do not make such good wine. Remove the hulls and put the fruit with the cider in a tub and let it steep for two days. Next press the Rasp- berries and strain all the juice through a fine silk sieve. Measure it, and for every 2qts. allow 1 Jib. of loaf sugar; mix them together and stir occasionally until the sugar has dissolved. Pour the juice into a cask, and for every 2galls. add 1 pint of brandy, and close the bung down tightly. In three months’ time draw off the wine into bottles, cork well, and stow them away in a wine cellar. In another three months’ time the wine will be ready for drinking. (3) Take 31b. of raisins, wash, clean, and stone them thoroughly. Boil 2galls. of spring water for half-an-hour; as soon as it is taken off the fire pour it into a deep stone jar and put in the raisins, with 6qts. of Raspberries and 21b. of loaf sugar. Stir well together, cover closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring twice a day. Then pass it through a sieve, put the liquor into a close Raspberries—continued. vessel, add another lib. of sugar, let it stand for a day and night to settle, then bottle it, adding a little more sugar. (4) Use freshly-picked Raspberries, and for every quart allow lqt. of boiling water and lib. of caster sugar. Put the Raspberries and sugar in a large pan or bowl, pour the boiling water over them, cover with a cloth, and keep them in a cool temperature. In about four days’ time press the Raspberries, strain the juice through a cloth, and pour it into bottles. Stand the bottles uncorked in a cool temperature for nearly a week, then ■cork them tightly and stow them away in a cool dry cellar. RATAFIA.—There appears to be a good deal of con- : fusion about the origin of this word. Some authorities believe that it is a corruption of rectifie, as being made with rectified spirits of wine; [others endeavour to connect it with ratify, supposing that bargains were ratified or confirmed over a glass of Ratafia; out Webster considers this term to be a combination and corruption of the Malay Araik and tafia, signifying a spirit distilled from molasses. In France the name is applied generally to liqueurs com- pounded of spirit sugar, and the odoriferous and flavour- ing-principles of vegetables, more especially those containing the juice of fruits, or the kernels of apricots, cherries, or peaches. The French liqueur-makers recognise the follow- ing as standard Ratafias: Ratafia d’Angelique, Ratafia d’Anis, Ratafia de Baume de Tolu, Ratafia de Brou de Noix, Ratafia de Cacao, Ratafia de Cafe, Ratafia de Cassis, Ratafia de Cerise, Ratafia de Chocolat, Ratafia de Coriss, Ratafia de Creme. Ratafia de Curayoa, Ratafia de Fram- boise, Ratafia de Genievre, Ratafia de Grenoble, Ratafia de Noyau, Ratafia d’Oillets, Ratafia d'Ecorce d’Orange, Ratafia de Fleurs d’Orange, Ratafia a la Proveiu-ale, Ratafia des Quatre Fruits, Ratafia Rouge, Ratafia Sec, and Ratafia a la Yiolette. The following preparations and receipts for their further use are specially selected: (1) Put into a vessel 61b. of black heart cherries, lib. of small black cherries, and 21b. each of raspberries and straw- berries, bruise them well, and let them stand for several hours; strain off the juice, and to each pint add 4oz. of refined loaf sugar or syrup, and lqt. of brandy. Stir frequently for two or three hours, and run the liquor through a jelly-bag. Bruise Joz. of cinnamon and 1 drachm of cloves, infuse them in brandy for two weeks, strain, and add the liquor to the other to flavour it. Bottle and use as required. The cinnamon may be omitted and more cloves added if liked. (2) Chop Jib. of freshly-gathered angelica-stems into small pieces, and macerate in ‘2qts. of brandy and 1 pint of water for two months. Previously dissolve 21b. of sugar in the water, and add slowly to the brandy before putting in the angelica. Add also 1 pinch of cloves and a bruised stick of cinnamon. Strain at the end of the time named, filter through clean blotting-paper, and bottle up. Take care that the brandy is both good and aged. (3) Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of six lemons, 1 drachm of bruised cinnamon, and Joz. of coriander-seeds in a jar; dissolve 11b. of sugar in 3 gills of water, and put it also in the jar; then pour in lqt. of the best French brandy, cover the jar, and let it stand for a month. Strain the liqueur, bottle it, and cork the bottles air- tight. (4) Mix 3 pints of the juice of fruit with lqt. of brandy, 31b. of sugar clarified with 3 pints of water, and J- table- spoonful each of essence of vanilla, cloves, and cinnamon. When the ingredients are well mixed, put the liqueur into bottles, cork, and wax them down. In nine or ten months the liqueur will be ready for use. Currant, raspberry, or any kind of fruit may be used for this. (5) Take equal quantities of the juice of ripe cherries (morella for preference), raspberries, currants, and straw- berries, each juice expressed and strained separately, and put them all into a jar; add syrup to sweeten to taste, strain once more, and for each pint of the mixture pour in 1 gill of brandy. Flavour with the crushed kernels of