THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY 335 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Add 2Aoz. of sugar and 2oz. of butter, and continue to cook gently until the Rice is quite soft. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in four well- beaten eggs, turn the whole into a mould or basin, and bake for half-an-hour longer. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Any kind of jam or preserve may be served with it. (7) Put Jib. of Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, and boil gently, stirring well until the Rice is soft. Let it cool, mix in half a grated nutmeg, 1 table-spoonful of rose-water, and eight well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into a dish lined with puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, bake for about an-hour-and-a-lialf, take it out, and serve. (8) Well wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, using several waters, put it into a pie-dish, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, a little salt, and a flavouring of nutmeg or cinnamon. Set the dish in the oven, and bake for two or three hours, with a sheet of buttered paper over the top to prevent burning. Take it out, and serve. If desired, only five of the breakfast-cupfuls of milk may be cooked with the Rice from the com- mencement, and the other added after the liquor has boiled down a little. (9) Boiled.—Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with I pint of milk, and boil it until tender, then move it off the. lire, and mix in a small lump of butter. Finely chop 4oz. of suet; beat the yolks of four eggs with the whites of two; and thoroughly wash and dry Jib. of currants. Mix these ingredients with the Rice; add also Jib. of sugar, 1 wineglassful of brandy, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a pudding-cloth over the top, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it for two hours. At the end of that time, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish (see Fig 390), and serve. Rice Pudding a la Marquise. -Put sufficient Rice into a saucepan with milk so that when it is boiled and nibbed through a sieve there will be I breakfast-cupful of the pulp. Mix this pulp or puree with a little vanilla cream, rub it again through the sieve, anil let it fall into the freezer. Work it well until frozen, then line a bomb- mould packed in ice with it, till the centre with a mixture of preserved fruits mixed up with a little half-set pine apple ice, close the mould, sealing it hermetically, and cover well with salted ice. Let it remain for about tliree- quarters-of-an-hour, turn it out on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Pudding a la Reine. —Put 4oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with loz. of butter and 2oz. of sugar, pour over 3 breakfast-cupfuls of new milk, and boil slowly till the Rice is soft. Let it get cool, then mix in an egg. Sprinkle a few breadcrumbs over a well-buttered pie-dish or mould, put in a layer of the Rice, sprinkle over a few more breadcrumbs, cover with a layer of apricot marmalade or jam, and continue in this way until all the Rice is used and the dish full. Set it in a moderate oven, and bake (it will take about an hour). A'lien done, let it stand for five or six minutes, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve with custard poured round or over it. Rice Pudding with Apples.—(1) Put lOoz. of washed Rice into a basin of boiling w'ater, blanch it, drain, refresh it Rice—continued. in cold water, put it into a saucepan, covering to double its height with boiled milk, and set it to boil. As soon as it commences to boil remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, swreeten to taste, and cook gently until the Rice is soft. Add a little chopped lemon-peel, 2oz. or 3oz. of stoned raisins, and lastly five eggs, working one well in before another is added. Let the mixture cool; sprinkle a buttered charlotte-mould over with breadcrumbs, turn in the mixture, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. Take it out, cut off' a thin round from the top, and scoop out the inside, taking care not to leave the sides too thin. Fill the cavity with cooked minced apples mixed with a small quantity of apricot marmalade, place the round back in its place, turn the pudding out on to a dish over a little more of the apricot marmalade, sprinkle over caster sugar, and serve at once. (2) Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boil- ing water, let it remain on the fire for fifteen minutes, pour off' the water, add 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and boil until the Rice is soft; turn it out into a basin and let it cool. Peel and core half-a-dozen large apples, cut them into quarters, put them into a saucepan with a little water, and add 2oz. of butter, sugar to taste, and a slight flavour- ing of nutmeg or cinnamon. Cook gently over the fire until the apples are done, taking care that they do not fall to pieces. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and mix in an equal weight of sugar, a little salt, and the yolks of six eggs. Beat well, pour a little of this at the bottom of a buttered souffle- or pudding-dish, cover with a layer of the apples when cold, then with a layer of the cold Rice, continuing in this way until all the in- gredients are used up or the dish full, having a layer of the Rice at the top. Set the dish in a moderate oven, bake for an hour, take it out, and serve. Rice Pudding with Orange. —Clean Mb. of fine Rice, wash it in lukewarm water, and drain it in a colander. Put 3 pints of milk in a saucepan, place it on the hot stove, and when about to boil drop in the Rice. Cook slowly for twelve minutes, stirring frequently from the bottom with a spatula; remove it from the fire, and add loz. of fresh butter, 3oz. of powdered sugar, and the grated rind of a medium-sized orange. Mix well for two minutes, add 3oz. of well-skinned and cleaned marrow finely chopped, 2oz. of cleaned and dried currants, 2oz. of bitter-almond macaroons, loz. of finely-shied candied orange- peel, three yolks of eggs, one whole egg, 4 gill of brandy, and A saltspoonful of salt, and mix well together for ten minutes. Have a buttered and floured cloth, arrange it in a deep basin, and pour the preparation into it, lift up the four corners, and tie them firmly, being careful to leave an empty space about one-eight h of the contents. Place a saucepan on the stove half filled w ith boiling water, plunge the pudding in, and cook for an-hour-and-a-lialf, turning it over a couple of times ; remove, drain for one minute, untie, and lift, from the cloth. Dress on a dish, and serve with orange sauce. Rice Pudding served with Walnuts. -Put Alb. of Rice in a mortar and pound it rather coarsely; turn it into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling water, flavour with rose- water, and stir it over the fire till thick. Sweeten the mixture to taste with caster sugar, and turn it into a dish. Peel a few walnuts, put them in a mortar, and pound them. When the pudding is cold sift the pounded walnuts over it, and serve. Rice Puffs. -Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold cooked Rice into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, ) table-spoonful of warmed butter, the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, and sufficient milk to make the whole into a stiff' paste. Now add the whites of the four eggs beaten to a stiff' froth ; take the preparation up in a spoon, drop lumps into a frying-pan of boiling fat, brown them, take them out, drain off all the fat, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Pyramids for Forcemeat or Sausages. -Boil some Rice, and press it into small tin pyramid shapes about 3in. high ; scoop out some of the Rice from the middle,