278 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Quails—continued. Broiled Quails.—Singe and draw the Quails, split them lengthwise down the back, and wipe them with a damp cloth. Season with salt and pepper, rub them thickly with warmed butter, and dredge with flour. Put the birds on a grid iron over a clear fire, and broil for ten minutes. Cut some thick slices of bread, remove the crusts, toast and butter them, and lay them on a hot dish; put a Qaail when cooked on each slice, garnish with parsley, and serve. Broiled Quails Served with Bacon.—Singe, draw, and wipe well six fine fat Quails, split them through the back without separating the parts, and break the two leg bones. Put them on a dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, j pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of sweet oil, mixing them in well, and put them to broil on a moderate fire for six minutes on each side. Arrange six toasts on a hot dish, lay the Quails on top, pour over 1 gill of maitre- d’hotel butter, decorating with six slices of broiled bacon, and serve. Chaudfroid of Quails.—Draw and clean the birds, remove the breasts and backbones, but leave the legs. Cut 4oz. of fat bacon in small pieces, fry it for a few minutes, then add Jib. of calf’s liver, also cut up, one chopped carrot and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When well cooked, pound the above mixture in a mortar till quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Stuff the birds with the liver forcemeat. Tie each one separately in a piece of muslin, and lay them in a stewpan. Chop the bones of the birds, put them in with them, add some chopped vegetables, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme tied together, j pint of stock, and 1 teacupful of sherry. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and let the contents stew slowly for thirty minutes. When cooked, take the birds out of the stewpan, drain and press them lightly between two dishes. Strain the cooking- liquor of the birds through a silk sieve, return it to the stewpan, and boil till reduced to a glaze. Take the pieces of muslin off the Quails, baste them several times with the glaze to coat them well, and leave till cold. When ready, arrange the birds in a circle on a dish, garnish them with chopped aspic jelly, fill the centre with small salad, and serve. Collops of Quails with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets of twelve Quails, divide each into halves, and trim them to a round shape. Trim and cut into rounds lib. of truffles, and cook them in Madeira. Season the collops and fry them in butter; when cooked, drain and mix them with the Fig. 332. Collops of Quails with Truffles. truffles. Fill a plain border-mould with boiled rice, press it down, and stand it for a few minutes in a bain-marie. Turn the border of rice out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill the centre with the collops and truffles (see Fig. 332), pour over them some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with Madeira, and serve. Compote of Quails.—(1) Singe and draw six Quails, remove their claws, and truss them with their legs inwards. Cut two or three slices of bacon into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them to remove the salt, then put them in a stewpan and fry them with a piece of butter; take the pieces of bacon out, put the Quails in, and fry them. When lightly browned, make a roux in the stewpan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of veal gravy, a bunch of parsley, some Quails—continued. green and small white onions, and a few mushrooms, and season with pepper and salt. When the Quails are nearly cooked, add the bacon, and finish cooking. Put the Quails on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, garnish with the mushrooms, onions, and bacon, and serve. (2) Singe and draw the Quails and truss them with their legs inside. Put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then put in with them one sweetbread cut into slices, a slice of ham, a few truffles and button mushrooms cut into dice, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient rich stock to cover the birds, and add 1 wineglassful of chablis, and 2 table- spoonfuls of baked flour. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently till the Quails are done. When cooked, put the Quails on a hot disli and keep them warm. Strain their cooking- liquor, boil it for two or three minutes to reduce it to the proper consistency, then pour it over the Quails, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Galantine of Quails.—Singe, draw, and bone ten Quails, and stuff them with galantine forcemeat mixed with chopped truffles; roll them to an oval shape, and tie them up in some pieces of cloth. Cook the Quails in mirepoix, and when done leave them till cool. Fix a block of fried bread 2in. in diameter in the centre of a disli, put a rice socle round the bread, and coat it with montpellier butter. Drain and unwrap the Quails, glaze them with game glaze, put one on the top of the bread and the others on the socle, leaning against the sides, garnish with chopped aspic and croft tons of aspic, and serve. Larded Quails.—Singe, draw, and wash the Quails; lard the breasts and legs, run a small skewer through the legs and tail, and bind them firmly round with thread. Baste the breasts with a little clarified butter, sprinkle a little salt over, and dredge them thickly with flour. Place the Quails in a baking-dish and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. Put a layer of bread sauce on a hot disli; when cooked, untie the birds, put them on the dish with the bread sauce, sift plenty of fried breadcrumbs over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Filau of Quails.—Prepare the Quails, wrap a large vine- leaf round each, then a thin slice of fat bacon, which should be secured with a small wooden skewer. Put jib. of butter into a stewpan, place it over the fire until it has melted, then put in the Quails and cover the stewpan; cook the Quails over a slow fire, turning them occasionally. More butter may be added if the above quantity is not sufficient to cook the birds in. Thoroughly wash lib. of rice, throw it into a saucepan with plenty of water and a small lump of salt, and boil quickly for ten minutes without stirring. At the end of that time drain the water off the rice, cover it with fresh cold water, which drain away also. Then move the saucepan to the side of the fire and cover the rice with a thick-folded cloth. Put jib. of butter in a frying-pan over the fire and let it melt; peel and thinly slice a large onion, put it with a bay-leaf into the butter, and stew slowly until soft. Dust a small quantity of white pepper into the butter; when well flavoured with the onions, strain the butter into the rice, also the cooking-butter and gravy of the Quails, stirring to mix well. Put the Quails on a hot dish, turn the rice over them, and serve. Potted Quails.—Bone a dozen Quails, using a penknife for the purpose, then cut each one into halves lengthwise. Chop lib. of veal and lib. of fat bacon, mix them together, and season with 1 teaspoonful of mixed mace, cloves, and white pepper, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and finely-chopped lemon-peel. Put a thin layer of the forcemeat in a jar, fill the jar with alternate layers of Quail and forcemeat, the last layer being forcemeat, put one or two thin slices of bacon on the top, and cover the whole with a flour-and-water paste. Put the jar in a pan containing water, and set it in the oven for three hours. When cooked, remove the crust, drain off the fat and gravy, then put a small plate inside the jar with a weight on the top of that, to press the meat. When cold,