233 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. Potato and Cucumber.—Peel and boil lib. of Potatoes until they are tender (they should not be too much done, or they will break), drain them, and cut them into thin slices. Slice a cucumber, arrange the slices tastefully with the Potatoes in a salad-bowl, strew minced chives over the top and a small quantity of chopped tarragon. Prepare a dressing with salad-oil, vinegar, sour cream, and one egg, the oil predomi- nating. Beat the mixture well, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve. The Po- tatoes may be either served hot or cold. Potato Custard.—Put lib- of baked Potato pulp into a basin, and mix in ill), of butter, fib. of caster sugar, 1 pint of milk, and half-a- dozen eggs. Stir these in well, anil add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a little grated nutmeg and cinnamon to flavour. Line a pie-dish with a light pastry crust, put in the Potato mixture, place the dish in a mode rate oven, and bake until the pie is done, then serve; or to lib. of Potato pulp use twelve eggs beaten separately, 12oz. of butter, lqt. of milk, lib. of sugar, a flavouring of nutmeg and cinnamon, and proceed as before. Potato Cutlets with Tomatoes.—Cut some cold mutton into slices of moderate thickness, and spread them over on each side with a layer of mashed Potatoes that have been seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a large lump of clarified fat or butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets and fry them. As they brown, take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper before the fire to drain. Put some ripe tomatoes in boiling water until their skins will come off easily, then peel them. Put them in a small saucepan, break two or three eggs over them, and stir them at the side of the fire until thick and somewhat resembling scrambled eggs in appearance. Pile the tomatoes in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, and serve. Potato Eggs.—Mince the remains of some cold veal or fowl, freeing it from skin and bone, mix with it a third of its quantity of mashed Potatoes, and a few chopped mush- rooms, and season with plenty of pepper and a small quantity of salt. Work in a small lump of butter with the mixture, bind it with beaten egg, and then with two table-spoons mould it into egg-shaped balls. Put a large piece of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the balls and fry them a delicate brown. As each lot of balls are cooked, take them out of the fat, drain them, and pile them on a hot dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Serve hot. Potatoes for Entrees.—Take out all the insides of six baked Potatoes, work in with it a little butter, salt, breadcrumbs, and chopped parsley, beat well with a fork, and work in an egg. Boil some salsify-root until tender, pass it through a fine sieve, mix it with a little cream, and season to taste. Half fill some well-buttered egg-cups with the Potato mixture, put 1 teaspoonful of the salsify cream over, fill up with more of the Potato mixture, turn them oirt, brush them over with egg, dust with bread- crumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry. Take them out, drain them, and serve hot, with a cream sauce poured round or in a sauceboat. Potato Flour.—Thoroughly wash about 1 bushel of Potatoes, grate them on a coarse cheese-grater, put the Potato flour Potatoes—continued. into deep dishes with plenty of water, and leave it until the following morning. Strain off the water, which will carry away a portion of the fibrous matter, pour in more, stir well, and leave it for twelve hours longer; then pour off the water again. Repeat this operation until the white sediment is quite free from all fibrous matter, then leave until dry. W hen perfectly dry, pass the flour through a fine hair sieve, put it into bottles, and keep them well stoppered. The summer is the best time for preparing this flour. Potato Pritters.—(1) Mix 1 gill of cream into 6 table- spoonfuls of finely-mashed Potatoes, beat it up lightly, and nib it through a sieve; mix with it the yolks of five eggs beaten up light with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, and continue to whisk till the mixture is a creamy froth; then add the strained juice and half the grated peel of a lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and loz. of self- raising flour, and whisk for five minutes longer; beat in then the whites of five eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Drop the batter in spoonfuls into boiling lard, and fry the fritters a pale brown. Lay them on a paper to drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve at once with wine sauce. (2) Peel and wash lib. of Potatoes, and boil them ; when tender, drain the water off thoroughly, and mash them in the saucepan, mixing 1 pint of milk with them. Stir them over the fire until boiling, then put in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of crushed macaroons, and stir for two or three minutes longer; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and stir them in quickly with the Potato mixture. Spread the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold. Put about 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs on a sheet of paper, and beat an egg well. Divide the cold mixture into small quantities, mould them into round balls, dip them in the beaten egg, and roll them well in the bread- crumbs. Put a large lump of lard into a flat stewpan and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the balls, and fry them until a golden brown. Take them out as they are cooked, and put them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain off the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters on it, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. (3) Mash fine two good-sized floury boiled Potatoes, mix with them 1 table-spoonful each of cream and white wine, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four eggs and the whites of three, well beaten. When all these are thoroughly mixed, continue to beat the batter for at least half-an-hour. Fry in plenty of boiling lard, dropping the batter in by spoonfuls. Serve with hot wine sauce; or a sauce may be made of the strained juice of one lemon, 1 dessert-spoonful of almond or peach-leaf water, 1 glass of white wine, and sugar to taste, mixed together and made hot. (4) Scrub and clean one dozen or so large Potatoes, put them into a quick oven, and bake until they are quite soft. Take them out, scrape out all the pulp, and rub it through a fine sieve into a saucepan. Work in with a wooden spoon a third of its bulk of butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar to flavour it, and the yolks of nine or ten eggs. Set the pan over a slow fire, and beat the contents till quite smooth ; then turn it out on to a baking-sheet, and when quite cool separate it into small equal-sized pieces. Roll these into the shape of a cork, flatten them with a knife, cut them into small rounds with a tin cutter, dip them into well-beaten egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fiy. Take them out when done, drain off all the fat, roll them in caster sugar, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (5) Put two or three large Potatoes into a bowl of water, and scrub and wash them well; put them into a quick oven or on hot ashes, and bake or roast them. Take them out, scrape out all the insides into a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a small quantity of salt, a little cream and butter, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Beat in with a wooden spoon one or two eggs, adding only sufficient to make the mixture into a stiff paste. Let this get quite Fig. 296. Potato Crulles.