384 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. shall apply generally to most or all, whether savoury or sweet. Some of these instructions may be applicable only to one particular class of Sauce, those of a savoury character occupying the greatest attention. It is necessary in the case of some savoury Sauces to have a good stock from which to prepare them. This may be provided either by the liquor in which the viand is cooked, or it may be specially prepared for the purpose; in the first case, the mode of procedure is sufficiently simple, in the second case the stock must be prepared by Fig. 458. Flat Sauce-strainer. simmering certain meats, &c., in a stockpot, and the most suitable vessel for this is the stockpot known as a digester (see Fig. 450), described under its own heading. In such a vessel the very essence of the meat, &c., can be extracted. When any of the stock is required, it may be taken out, after all the fat has been skimmed off, by means of a dipper (see Fig. 451), which may hold any amount, from a few table-spoonfuls to a pint. After the first boiling of the stock, which will probably contain meat, bone, vegetables, and herbs, it should be Fig. 459. Conical SauCe-strai'Ner. strained through a coarse colander, which may be made either of block tin (see Fig. 452) or when required for more extensive purposes of copper (see Fig. 453). When this stock is cold every particle of fat should be removed, and the stockpot thoroughly cleansed. The strained stock or broth may then be returned to the stockpot, or put into a large saucepan or a stewpan, and boiled down; then remove the lid until the stock becomes, when cold, a strong jelly, which will keep in a cool pantry for a length of time. Some cooks prefer to strain their first stock through a broth-napkin (see Fig. 454). This ensures a clear, bright Sauces—continued. result, and is generally practised by those cooks whose art is not crippled by scarcity of time. Savoury Sauces may be either made with meat (au gras) or without (au maigre); for the latter a stock would not Fig. 460. Bain-marie. be required. Sweet Sauces will not require stock, but are usually made in the form of melted butter, flavoured with fruit juices, spices, and wine, and sweetened. Starting with the stock, a certain quantity will be placed in a stewpan to be further seasoned with spices or herbs, both of which should be ready at hand in every well-regulated kitchen. The herbs, ground to a fine powder, are usually kept handy in a lierb-tray (see Fig. 455) and spices in a spice-box (see Fig. 456). When the stock merely requires to be warmed up, and not reduced by rapid boiling, it is better to use what is called a double boiler (see Fig. 457), this being merely one saucepan let into another, the outer saucepan con- taining water and the inner one the stock or Sauce; by means of this the most delicate Sauces can be prepared without fear of burning. Sauces should at all times be perfectly smooth and even, containing no lumps or irregularities whatever beyond those which are added, such as capers, shrimps, or Fig. 463. Egg-bowl. oysters, after the Sauce is made. To ensure this they should be passed through one or the other of the fine strainers shown in the accompanying illustrations (see Figs. 458 and 459). These are made of such a size that they fit