THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 333 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Bice—continued. crushed loaf sugar into another basin, and mix well; make a cavity in the centre, pour in the eggs, and add the grated rind of a lemon. Turn the preparation into a buttered tin or mould, and bake in a moderate oven. Take out the cake when done, turn it out of the mould, and it is ready for use. Bice-and-Meat Balls.—Mix together A pint each of boiled Rice and of cold pork minced fine, a baking apple peeled, cored, and chopped fine, a seasoning of chopped sage, pepper, and salt (a very little sage is sufficient), 2oz. of butter, and A pint of boiled milk; when all these are thoroughly mixed, stir in a beaten egg, and roll the mixture into balls. Fry them and serve hot. Bice Meringue.—(1) Put 4oz. of Rice and 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of milk into a saucepan, and boil slowly until the former is quite soft and well done; then remove the pan to the side of the fire, let the Rice cool, and work in the grated rind of a lemon, the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, and 2Joz. of crushed loaf sugar. Turn the whole into a buttered dish, cover over with the whites of five eggs whipped to a froth, put the dish in a slow oven, and bake the meringue for about ten minutes. Take it out when ready, and serve at once. (2) Put J,lb of Rice in a stewpan with plenty of water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, strain it off, and pour over the Rice 1 pint of milk; add 4 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the thinly pared rind of a small lemon. Boil the Rice gently until quite tender, take out the lemon peel, and stir in gradually the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pile the Rice in the centre of a dish, and pour some stewed or preserved fruit over it. Whisk the whites of the three eggs with a heaped table- spoonful of caster sugar, and pour them over the fruit. Bake for half an-hour in a cool oven, then serve the Rice on the same dish. Bice Milk.—Put lib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of water, parboil it, drain off the water, and add only sufficient milk to moisten so that it will boil dry and not pulpy. Sweeten to taste with powdered loaf sugar, turn the whole out on to a dish, smooth over the surface, cover over the top with a piece of paper cut in an orna- mental fashion, and cover this over with powdered cinna- mon and sugar, so that when the paper is removed the pattern may be traced with more powdered sugar. Finish the design with the sugar, and serve. Bice Muffins.—Put lqt. of flour into a basin, mix in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and rub the whole through a fine sieve into a basin. Stir in gradually three eggs beaten up in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and work well until the paste is light and smooth : then add 2 break- fast-cupfuls of cold boiled Rice. Turn the preparation into well-buttered small pans, put them in the oven, and Bice—continued. bake. When done, take them out, and serve either hot or cold. Bice-and-Oafmeal Pudding (Baked).—Put 1 breakfast- cupful each of well-washed Rice and oatmeal into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft. Turn the mixture into a deep pie-dish, and mix in 2oz. eacli of moist sugar, currants, or finely-chopped raisins, and shred beef-suet, a small quantity of mixed spice, and pour in lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Take it out, and serve. Bice-and-Onion Soup.—Mince a dozen or so of onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and brown them ; add 1 table-spoonful of Hour, and stir well until it is also well browned. Pour in slowly A gall, of boiling rich broth, add a few peppercorns and a little salt, and boil up once more; then add IA pints of cold-boiled Rice. Make the soup quite hot, turn it into a tureen, and serve at once. Bice Pancakes.—(1) Wash Alb. of Rice, put it into a sauce- pan with some water, and boil it to n jelly, adding more water when required. When cooked, leave it till cold; then mix with it 1 pint of cream, eight eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Warm Alb. of butter, then stir it in with the other ingredients, adding as much flour as will make a thick batter. Fry the pancakes as usual, using as little butter as possible. Serve them either plain or with jam or preserves. (2) Have ready 1 pint of Rice boiled quite soft; sift together 1 pint of flour and 1 teaspoonful each of baking- powder and salt; beat three eggs and mix them with ] pint of milk. Before putting these ingredients together, see that the griddle is hot; then mix the pancakes, and begin to bake them at once. If the first ones seem too stiff, add a little more milk to the batter. Serve the pancakes hot as soon as they are cooked. Bice Paste.—Wash well 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice, and put it over the fire in a saucepan with a small piece of onion and 6 table-spoonfuls of milk or milk and water. Let it simmer till it gets quite soft, and then stir in a beaten egg. Put two or three pork or mutton chops into a small pie-dish, season them well, cover them with the Rice paste, and bake them. Bice Paste for Savouries.—Wash some Rice well, and put it in a saucepan with an onion and a small quantity of milk or milk and water. Keep the Rice simmering gently until tender, then beat it up well with an egg. This paste can be used for various things, such as cover- ing over well-seasoned chops, &c. Bice Paste for Sweets. -Boil Alb. of ground Rice in as little water as it can be boiled in without burning it, strain it as dry as possible, and beat or pound it in a mortar with loz. of butter ami two eggs beaten very light. Bice Paste for Tarts.—Sift Alb. of ground Rice, and rub into it Jib. of fresh butter; mix and knead this into a paste with a little cold water. Sprinkle flour over a paste- board and rolling-pin, and roll out the paste pretty thin. Cut Jib. of butter into little bits, and stick them all over the paste. After this fold and roll it out again three times, each time sprinkling flour over the paste and under it, all over the paste-board and rolling-pin. Cover the tarts, brush the paste over with well-beaten white of egg, sprinkle it with powdered sugar, and bake. Bice Patties.—Put Jib. of washed Rice into a saucepan with sufficient white stock to more than cover it, and boil slowly at the side of the fire until the Rice is soft and the liquor all absorbed. A little milk should be added to the broth to give the Rice a white appearance. Add a handful of grated Parmesan cheese to flavour, and when the Rice is nearly of a jelly turn it out into a pan, keep- ing it about 2in. in thickness. Cut the preparation into rounds with a tin cutter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, brush them over with egg, cover them with bread- crumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and brown them. Take them out when done, remove the