193 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pine-apples—con tinned. until a straw can be thrust into them and withdrawn with- out being sticky. Pine-apple Charlotte.—Line a charlotte-mould with paper, point some finger biscuits on one side, and arrange them like a rosette on their glazed sides at the bottom of the mould. Put some long thin biscuits, the same height as the mould, round the sides, and standing upright, and embed the mould in pounded ice. Mix with 1 pint of Pine-apple syrup Joz. of dissolved gelatine, a little grated lemon-peel, and the juice of one orange. Strain the liquor through a sieve into a sugar-boiler, stir it over the fire till of the consistency of cream, then take it off, and mix with it A pint of whipped cream and Alb. of either preserved or fresh Pine apple, cut into small pieces. Fill the lined mould with this mixture, and leave it for one hour to set. Turn the charlotte on a folded napkin, and serve. Pine-apple Cheese —Peel some Pine-apples, cutting out any discoloured parts, and mince them finely. Put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of syrup, and stew them till tender. Take the Pine-apples out of the syrup, put them in a mortar, pound, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and mix a small quantity of the syrup witli it. Dissolve a small quantity of isinglass in a little hot water, and mix it with the Pine-apple puree. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with some caster sugar, whip it well, then mix it with the puree, and whip the whole for a few minutes, standing the bowl over ice. Turn the mixture into a channelled mould, and pack it in pounded salt and ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it well, and turn the cheese out on to a fancy dish. Pine-apple Cider.—Take a large Pine apple, cut oft' the rind, chop it fine, put it into a jar, pour on to it 2qts. of cold water, tie a cloth (not a thick one) over the top of the jar, and let it stand till it ferments. If the weather is warm, it will ferment in two or three days. Strain off the water, sweeten to taste, and bottle it. Wire the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides for forty-eight hours. The cider will then be ready for use. The peeled Pine-apple may be served for dessert. Pine-apple Confection.—Peel the Pine apple, core it, and cut it in slices £in. thick. Boil them in water till tender, then put them into boiling clarified sugar and boil till they look clear; lift them out very carefully, and lay them in a dish on a thick layer of confectioner’s sugar. Set the dish in a warm place, and let the Pine apple remain on it till dry enough to handle, turning the slices every day and sifting the sugar over them. Pine apple Cream.—(1) Pour boiling cream over some slices of Pine apple, let them soak in the cream till well flavoured, then strain and sweeten it, and whisk it steadily till thick. (2) Put loz. of gelatine in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and place it over the fire until dissolved. Rub 2 teacupful of Pine-apple jam through a fine hair sieve, stir it in with the gelatine, and add 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then skim it well and turn it into a basin. Whisk 1 pint of thick cream to a stiff snow, and when the Pine-apple mixture is nearly cold, mix them together, whisking well. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the mixture into it, and set it on ice. When cold and firm, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a glass dish, and serve. (3) Select a moderate-sized and perfectly ripe Pine apple, and peel it, carefully removing all the black specks; cut it into small square pieces with a silver knife, and trim away all the core. Lay the pieces of Pine apple on a dish, strew rather more than Alb. of caster sugar over them, and moisten with 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put the peel’ and trimmings of the Pine apple into a stewpan with 1 break- fast cupful of water, and boil it slowly for about half- an-hour. Strain the liquor and leave it until cold. Put the fruit with the juice and strained liquor into an enamelled stewpan, and boil the whole gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, keeping it well skimmed; then putin loz. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. VOL. II. Pine-apples—continued. of isinglass, and boil for a few minutes longer. Pour the Pine apple into a basin, mix with it 1| pints of thick cream, and wliisk the whole until thick. Pour the mixture into a mould, shaped like half a Pine apple, that has been first dipped into boiling water and then rinsed out with cold water. Stand the mould on ice, stir the contents for a few minutes to keep the fruit from sinking to the bottom, then leave it for two or three hours. When quite firm and cohl, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a raised glass dish, stick grocers’ currants on in squares, set in the cream at the end a bunch of imitation leaves cut out of angelica (see Fig. 247), and serve. Pine-apple Cream Ice—(1) Peel a fresh Pineapple, put it into a basin with lib. of clarified sugar, and leave it for a few hours. Pass the Pine apple through a sieve, rubbing it well with the back of a spoon, and stir well into it the juice of a lemon and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the mixture into a freezing-box, work it till frozen, then put it in a mould and pack in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water to loosen the cream at the sides, and turn it out on to a fancy dish. (2) Boil lqt. of milk, and mix with it gradually five well-beaten eggs; add 6oz. of caster sugar, stir it' for a few minutes by the side of the fire till it begins to thicken, then move it off and let it cool. Press the juice from a 1 ine-apple, strain it, mix it with the cream, and serve. (3) W hip 2qts. of rich cream to a stiff froth with 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Grate two ripe Pine- apples and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar, and when quite smooth stir in the cream. Pour most of the mixture into the freezer, keeping back A pint of it. When the cream begins to freeze it will sink, then beat in the remainder with a spatula and work the frozen cream from the sides. This is one of the most delicious ices produced. (4) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar with 1 breakfast- cupful of flour, stir two beaten eggs in with it, then pom- over gradually 1 pint of boiling milk; stir it for twenty minutes by the side of the fire to cook the flour, then move it away and leave till cool. Mix with the custard 1 teacupful of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of essence of Pine apple, and lqt. of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a fieezei ami work it till frozen. If wished to be served in shape, put the cream when frozen in a mould, embed it in pounded ice, and leave it to set for an hour or two. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Pine-apple Crusts.—Put lib. of the best sifted flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, put in ^oz. 0f German yeast and 1 table-spoonful of warm milk. Stir in sufficient of the flour to make a sponge, and set it to rise in a warm place. \\ hen the sponge has risen to twice its original bulk, work in with it and the remainder of the flour 1 teacupful of tepid milk and two eggs; then add Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. O