211 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Plum Cakes—continued. stoned raisins and well-washed and dried currants, 4oz. of finely-chopped citron, all well dusted with flour, and make the whole into a light hatter. Have ready one or two pans lined with paper, fill them with the mixture, hake in a moderate oven, and use when cold. PLUM PUDDINGS —The same remark applies to these as to Plum Cakes. Some of these are boiled in cloths, and some in basins or moulds. Besides the fol- lowing, which will be found suitable for all occasions, several excellent receipts for Plum Puddings are given under Christmas Pare. Cold Plum Pudding Warmed Up.—Cut the pudding into rather thick slices; put a lump of butter into a perfectly clean frying-pan, melt it, then put in the slices of pud- ding anil fry them lightly until well heated through. Beat the yolks of three eggs well with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn them into a small lined saucepan, and mix with them 1 wineglassful each of brandy and sherry. Stir the sauce over the fire until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil or it will be spoilt. Put the slices of pudding on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Iced Plum Pudding.—Boil \ pint of cream with the thinly- shred rind of half a lemon and a small piece of citron. Put the yolks of four eggs in a basin with 4oz. of caster sugar and beat them well, then pour in gradually the boil ing cream. Stand the basin in a bain-marie and stir the contents until they begin to thicken, then take it out and mix in 1 teacupful of very dark caramel. When some- what cooled, turn it into a freezing-mould and leave it until about the stiffness of snow. Blanch and chop loz. of sweet almonds or pistachio-nuts, finely shred loz. of candied orange-peel and candied pine-apple, and chop loz each of candied cherries and sultanas; put all these in gredients into a basin, pour over ^ wineglassful each of brandy and curayoa, and let them soak for an hour or two. Whisk 4 pint of thick cream and one white of egg to a stiff froth; add the fruit mixture and the whipped cream to the frozen mixture and leave it in the freezer a short time longer. Afterwards pack it in a mould, close tightly, and bury it in ice. Prepare the following sauce : Rub the yellow rinds of one orange and one lemon with two or three lumps of sugar, put them in a basin, and squeeze in the juice of the fruit; add 1£ wineglassfuls of clarified syrup, and 1 wineglassful each of wine and brandy. Work the sauce in the freezer until about half frozen. Dip the mould containing the pudding into hot water, take it out again quickly, wipe it, turn the pudding out on to a fancy dish, pile the frozen sauce up round it, and serve. See Fig. 270. Imitation Plum Pudding.—Put 71b. of moist sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boil- ing), remove the pan from the fire, grain the sugar, and mix in lib. each of sultana raisins and stoned Valencia raisins and 2lb. of well-washed and dried currants. Stir well with the spatula, and mix in loz. of mixed spice and lib. of almonds, blanched and cut into pieces to resemble suet when chopped; put the mixture into a damp cloth, Plum Puddings—continued. and hang it up until it is firmly set. Turn it out when required, and it is ready for use, and will have a very pleasing effect. Indian Plum Pudding.—The following receipt is the best for puddings that are to be sent to India, as their keep- ing good may be relied upon. Stone and chop coarsely lib. of muscatel raisins; pick, wash, and dry lib. of currants ; cut £lb. of mixed candied peel into thin shreds; blanch and chop Jib. of sweet almonds; and chop very finely lib. of the freshest beef-suet. Mix all these ingredients to- gether in a large bowl with Jib. of biscuit powder, Jlh. of sifted flour, and lib. of sugar. Season to taste with nutmeg and spices. Beat eight eggs thoroughly and mix with them 1 teacupful of old ale in which 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Pour the beaten mixture in with the dry ingredients, and work the whole with a wooden spoon until thoroughly incorporated. Lastly, add to the mixture 2 wineglassfuls of the best brandy. Procure a square biscuit-tin from the grocer’s, and remove the piece that is turned in at the top, butter it thickly, and turn the pudding mixture into it. Put the lid on the tin, tie it down securely, put it into a large pan of boiling water, and keep it boiling fast for eight or ten hours, adding more water as the quantity becomes diminished. Afterwards, drain the pudding, let it cool a little, then remove the lid and wipe it quite dry. On the following day, put the lid on the tin again, paste a thick piece of paper round the edges to keep it air- tight, then completely envelop the tin in paper, and gum it down well. Plum Pudding.—(1) Beat up twelve eggs, and mix with them 1 4 pints of cream, and fill, each of sifted breadcrumbs and flour. When they are well heaten together, mix in 14lb. each of very finely-chopped suet, sugar, stoned and chopped raisins, and well-washed and dried currants, and 3oz of candied citron and the same quantity of orange peel, both citron and orange-peel cut small. Grate in a-nutmeg-and-a- lialf, and mix in well 6 table-spoonfuls each of brandy and white wine. Tie the pudding tight in a greased cloth, plunge it into boiling water, and keep it constantly boiling for nine hours. (2) Beat twelve eggs very light, and work in gradually 3 gills of milk, then stir in fib. each of flour and sifted breadcrumbs, adding them a little at a time. Next mix in by degrees 141b. of moist sugar. Have ready 14lb. each of finely-chopped beef suet, picked, washed, and dried currants, and raisins stoned and cut in halves. Add now, and mix in, suet and fruit alternately, sprinkling the fruit well with flour to prevent it sinking to the bottom. Stir the whole well; then mix into the pudding 1 teaspoonful of salt, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of powdered cinnamon and powdered mace that have been mixed together, and three nutmegs, grated. When this spice is thoroughly incorporated with the above ingredients, stir in 14 wineglassfuls of brandy, the same of wine, and 3 gills more of milk. Continue to stir for a time after all the ingredients are mixed. Should the pudding not be stiff enough, add more flour or more sifted breadcrumbs, but lie careful not to add too much or the pudding will be hard. Dip a cloth into boiling water, wring it out, dredge a little flour over it, spread it over a pan, pour the pudding into it, and tie it up, allowing room for it to swell. Plunge the pudding into boiling water and boil incessantly for eight hours, then turn it carefully out of the cloth, and stick all over it strips of blanched almonds and citron. Serve the pudding with sauce flavoured with wine, grated nutmeg, and grated orange or lemon-rind. (3) Put 6oz. each of breadcrumbs, finely-shred beef-suet, well-washed and dried currants, and stoned raisins into a basin, mix them thoroughly, and add half a nutmeg grated, five eggs, a little finely-cut rind of lemon, and lastly 4 wineglassful of brandy. Put the mixture into a buttered or greased mould or basin, boil it for three hours in a saucepan of water, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (4) Mix lib. of flour and half the quantity of shredded beef-suet in a basin, and add Jib. of breadcrumbs, a little For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fsc., referred to, see under their special heads. . p 2