THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. £23 Y S>ice—continued. meat, fill up and cover with the boiled Rice, put it into a quick oven, and hake for an hour. Turn it out, pour over it some good gravy or curry sauce, and serve hot. Casserole of Rice.—Put l£lb. of washed Rice in an open stewpan, cover it to twice its height in stock, and simmer, stirring occasionally till the Rice is quite soft. Skim oil' the fat. When the Rice is cold, work it with a wooden spoon till a smooth paste, adding more stock if too dry; put it into a casserole 5in. high and 7in. in diameter, work it with the hand as if for a raised pie, and orna- ment the outside with slices of cooked carrots cut into various shapes, such as stars, crescents, &c. Brush the whole over with clarified butter, and stand it in a hot oven for half-an-hour. Take it out, remove the top of the casserole, and clear away the Rice that does not adhere to the crust, which should lie quite clear. Mix some Spanish sauce with the spare Rice, put it again in the casserole with, such r ago fits as may have been prepared for it, glaze, and serve. Cream of Rice Soup.—Prepare 2qts. of chicken stock (or the water in which a fowl has been boiled will answer the purpose), put in 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, one small onion, a stalk of celery, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the soup just simmer by the side of the fire for two hours; it should barely bubble. At the end of that time, strain the soup through a sieve, mix lqt. of milk or cream with it, and allow it to just come to the boil again. If milk is used, 1 table-spoonful of butter should be added. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a dish of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Creamed Rice.—Boil 1 teacupful of washed Rice in H pints of milk till quite soft and thick; when it is about half cooked, put in some thinly-pared lemon-peel chopped very small, a little grated nutmeg or a laurel-leaf, and sugar to taste. When the Rice is quite done, pick out the laurel-leaf, pour the Rice into a shape, and let it stand till next day. Turn it out, and serve with jam round it, or a thick custard poured over it. Croustades of Rice a la Reine.—Wash thoroughly and boil in a saucepan lqt. of Rice with 2qts. of broth and loz. of butter. Keep it as dry as possible, so that it remains firm, and add to it toz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, and A teaspoonful of nutmeg. Mix well with a wooden spoon, then put it in a buttered saute- pan, spreading it lfin. thick, and cover with a buttered paper. Leave it to cool with a weight pressed down on Fig. 379. Croustades of Eice a la Reuse. the top. Then cut it out with a paste-cutter into six croustades (being careful to dip the cutter in warm water each time it is used), and with a smaller paste-cutter make a mark on the surface of each without cutting. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and repeat this operation; then fry them in very hot fat for five minutes, drain, empty them with a vegetable-spoon, and fill the insides with a hot salpiyon of shrimps, mush- rooms, and cream sauce. Put the covers on top, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 3"9). Croustade of Rice Meringue.—Roll Alb. of puff paste into an .oval shape Jin. thick, lay upside down on it an oval dish lOin. long by 6in. wide, and with a knife cut away the paste close to the edges of the dish. Remove the dish and place the oval paste in a baking-sheet; then roll out the pieces which were cut away, and with a small fancy paste-cutter cut it into shapes. Wet the edges of the oval paste with a small pastry-brush dipped in beaten egg> anil arrange the pieces all round, crown-shaped. Rice—co n Unit ed. Bake the croustade in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Have ready 6oz. of boiled Rice. Peel and core six medium-sized apples, put them into a saucepan with ‘2oz. of powdered sugar, 1 gill of cold water, and A saltspoonful of salt; put on the lid, and let this cook on a slow fire for twenty minutes. Arrange half the Rice on the croustade, dress the apples over, and fill up the cavities with the rest of the Rice. Add to the juice of the apples in the pan 2oz. of apricot marmalade, mix well for two minutes, and pour it over the whole; then set ifiin a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Beat up two eggs as for a meringue, mixing in 2oz. of caster sugar; put this into a pastry-bag, anil decorate the surface of the croustade artistically with it, sprinkling a little sugar over all. Return it to the oven for five minutes to take a light colour. Pass a knife gently under the croustade, dexterously slide it from the baking-sheet on to a hot dish, and serve. Curried Rice.—(1) Mix smooth 1 dessert-spoonful of curry paste with 1 teaspoonful of rich brown gravy, put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful more of the gravy, and boil; then add lib. of washed Rice, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for about half-an-hour, or until the Rice is done. Turn it out on to a dish, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of water into a saucepan, boil it, add 1 teacupful of washed Rice, cover the pan, and boil the contents for twenty minutes if Patna Rice, and for half-an- hour if Carolina Rice. By this time the liquor should have evaporated and the Rice boiled dry, and all the grains be separate. Mix 1 dessert-spoonful of curry powder with t,oz. of butter, put it into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of stock, and cook gently for about twenty minutes; add it to the Rice when quite smooth, and let the saucepan remain at the side of the fire for about a-quarter-of-an- liour. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Pried Rice.—Boil the Rice, and cool it in a dish; when it is cold, turn it from the dish, cut it into slices nearly lin. thick, season them with pepper and salt, and roll them in corn meal. Have ready a frying-kettle half-full of smoking hot fat, and fry the slices of Rice in it until they are golden brown. Take them from the fat with a skimmer, put them on brown paper for a moment to free them from grease, and serve hot. Fried Rice Balls. —Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in several waters, then put it in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cook it in, and boil very slowly for twenty-five minutes. \\ hen the Rice is cooked, stir in gradually the yolks of two eggs and 2 table spoonfuls of sugar; when well mixed, turn the whole on to a plate, and leave it until cold. Dredge flour over a board, put the Rice mixture upon it, divide it into small quantities, and roll into balls. Lightly beat the whites of the eggs, dip the balls in it, then roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs, seeing that they are well coated. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until blue smoke rises; then put in the halls and fry them until lightly browned. Take the balls out with a slice, put them on a sheet of kitchen- paper in front of the fire for a minute or two to drain, arrange them in a pile on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve them with any kind of preserve liked. Fried Rice Cakes.—Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, put it into a lined stewpan with sufficient milk to cook it, and boil until tender, but not too soft-; then sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and work well in with it Hoz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and a few washed and dried currants. Butter a tin sheet, spread the Rice out on it, and let it cool; then cut out of it some moderate- sized pieces, and mould them flat and round, using plenty of breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumb them again. Melt a large piece of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely but not too darkly browned. Make a nice chocolate sauce for them. Drain the cakes, pile them on a dish, garnish with a fancy dish- paper, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads.