338 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. quick oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when ready, and serve at once. Rice Timbale with Candied Citron-peel.—Proceed as for Rice Timbale flavoured with Almonds, using 12oz. of Rice, 6 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, 4oz. of butter, 6oz. of powdered sugar, a little salt, the chopped rind of a lemon, ‘2oz. of candied citron-peel cut into small pieces, ‘2oz. of crushed macaroons, the yolks of six eggs and whites of two, and when these are incorporated add the well-whipped whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Rice Timbale flavoured with Coffee.—Put 6 breakfast- cupfuls of milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it com- mences to boil add Jib. of roasted coffee; cover the pan and let it remain for fifteen or twenty minutes. With l‘2oz. of Rice, proceed and finish as for Rice Timbale FLAVOURED WITH ALMONDS. Rice-and-Tomato Soup.—Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with ‘2qts. of vegetable stock and boil until tender. When the Rice is cooked, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and mix in a large bottle of tomato conserve and loz. of butter. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Rice in Turkish Style.—(1) Put 3 pints of clear stock into a saucepan with plenty of French tomato sauce and salt and pepper to taste; when it boils throw in Hlb. of well- washed and dried Rice and let it simmer gently until the moisture is all absorbed by the Rice. Melt a large lump of butter, pour it over the Rice, and leave it by the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When ready to serve, stir the Rice well, and turn it on to a hot dish. (*2) Wash Jib. of Rice well, and blanch for ten minutes in boiling water. Put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and let it cook, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar and a lump of sugar on to which has been nibbed the peel of half a small lemon; also Joz. of good butter, loz. of washed and dried grocers’ currants, and 1 salt- spoonful of salt. After twenty minutes remove from the fire and thoroughly stir in the yolks of four eggs. Place this in a puff paste croustade and put it in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Remove, sprinkle with a little sugar, pass a hot shovel or salamander over the top, glaze it well, and serve at once. Rice Waffles.—(1) Mix 1 pint of soft boiled Rice with 1 pint of milk in a saucepan over the fire, stirring them well until they are hot, then take them from the fire; beat the yolks of four eggs smoothly with 1 pint of cold milk, and add them to the Rice, together with 1 teaspoonful of salt and sufficient flour to make a batter just stiff enough to hold for an instant a drop from the spoon. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the batter, and bake at once in a hot buttered waffle-iron. Serve the waffles hot with powdered sugar dusted over them. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a basin with 1 teacupful of lukewarm milk, and mix well until it is quite smooth; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, 1 teacupful of flour, mixed up with 1 tea- spoonful of baking-powder, a little salt, 1 table-spoonful of syrup, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one. Mix thoroughly, turn the preparation into a waffle-iron, and bake. Take it out when done, and serve. Rice Water.—Well wash 2 table-spoonfuls of Rice, pick it over so as to have only sound grains, put it into a sauce- pan with lqt. of water, and boil for an hour, by which time the Rice should be quite soft. Sprinkle in salt and sugar to taste, the sugar to predominate, and add a piece of cinnamon; in a few ndnutes strain, and serve either hot or cold. Should it not be liquid enough, add more boil- ing water and boil longer. Risotto.—(1) Peel and finely mince a small onion; put loz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire; when mixed, put in the onion and fry it until lightly browned. Wash Jib. of Rice, drain it, put it in with the onion, pour in sufficient clear stock to cook it in, and boil until the grains have swollen but not mashed to a pulp. Shake the stewpan occa- - Rice—con tinned. sionally, but do not stir the Rice with a spoon. When it is cooked, season to taste with salt and pepper, and strain in a small quantity of lemon-juice. Turn the risotto on to a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over, and serve. (2) Put 4oz. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with only sufficient water to cover it, and boil gently until the rice swells but does not become soft. Add 1 table-spoon- ful of tomato sauce or a little saffron to give it a good colour, and loz. each of butter and grated cheese. Stir well for a minute or two, turn the mixture out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Venetian.—Peel and chop an onion, a clove of garlic, and half a small carrot; put the vegetables in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Chop some sheep’s kidney, put it in with the vegetables, toss it over the fire until browned, then pour in 1 pint of clear broth and stew gently until tender. Put in with the above ingredients 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice, Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, and a small quantity of salt. Stir the risotto well to mix it, and when the Rice is sufficiently cooked turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Risotto a la Milanaise.—Peel and mince a small onion, put it into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter, and fry until it begins to brown; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed Rice. Fry it for seven or eight minutes, and pour in just sufficient stock to boil the Rice in. Add a pinch of saffron, and let it simmer gently until tender. When the Rice is soft, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir it over the fire until the cheese has melted. Cut three rounds of bread, toast it a delicate brown, then trim off the crusts. Butter the toast and lay it on a hot dish. Season the Rice mixture to taste with salt and pepper, turn it on to the toast, and serve. Savoury Rice.—(1) Wash the Rice and partially boil it in water, then drain off the water; mix with it 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of curry powder and sufficient stock to finish cooking it in, and let it simmer until tender. Fry in bacon-fat as many eggs as will be required, and trim neatly. When the Rice is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, lay the fried eggs on it, and serve. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich stock, either white or brown; season well with powdered herbs, chopped paisley, salt and cayenne, and cook until the Rice is soft. Stir in gently with a fork 1 table-spoonful of butter, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onion and butter into a saucepan, fry to a light yellow, then add a little less than 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed Rice; colour this slightly, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of chicken stock, and cook for about balf-an-hour. When done, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Savoury Rice Pudding.—Put 1 teacupful of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich fish or meat stock, add a finely-chopped onion, and boil until the Rice is soft. Turn it into a dish, and pour over a custard made with 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, one egg, a small quantity of chopped ham or tongue and parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the dish in a slack oven and bake the contents until done; take it out, and serve. The ham and tongue may be omitted, and a little salted fish used instead. Turban of Rice and Stewed Apples.—Boil Jib. of Rice. Butter a mould holding 3 pints, cover the bottom and sides with Rice, pressing it even with a wooden spoon. Peel, core, and cut into quarters six large cooking apples, put them into a saucepan with 3oz. of loaf sugar, 1 tea- cupful of cold water, and J saltspoonful of salt. Place the pan on a hot stove, put on the lid, and cook for ten minutes. Remove and fill the mould with eighteen of the pieces, reserving the other six for later use, and put the mould in a slow oven for twelve minutes. Use a towel to remove it from the oven. Lay a dish on the top, turn them over, and lift off the mould. Decorate the base with the rest of the apples, inclining them slightly, and the top