TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 359 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Salads—continued. (2) Trim and cut into shape some cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, potatoes, Spanish onions, artichokes, and olives. Partially boil them, then drain, fry them in butter, and leave till cool. The day previous to making the Salad, soak and colour some plain dry biscuit with spinach-juice. Pound and pass them through a line hair sieve. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of oil and 1 tea- spoonful of made mustard, and \ pint of cream; mix with them the pounded biscuit, anil some little pieces of cold fish or poultry-flesh. Put the vegetables on a glass dish, pour the dressing over them, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. Russian Salad with Caviare.—Pack a conical-shaped mould in ice, and decorate the inside with anchovy fillets, poached whites of eggs, gherkins cut in small pieces, and preserved French beans, all dipped in a little half-set aspic jelly to make them adhere to the mould. Cover all with a thin layer of the aspic jelly and let it set. In the mean- time prepare a Salad of boiled beetroots, potatoes, and carrots (a little of each), as well as a few pickled button mush- rooms and capers, a little salted cucumber, and a few sticks of celery, all except the capers being cut up small; add a few fillets of anchovies or salted herrings, a small piece of any cooked fish, and a few crayfish-tails, all cut up small. Put the whole into a basin, pour over sufficient thick mayon- naise sauce to make the mixture thick, pack the basin in ice, and let the contents cool. Turn the Salad into the mould, let it remain in the ice for an hour, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of small rolls cut in halves and the centre scooped out and filled with caviare. Salad ala Chef de Cuisine.—Wash two heads of lettuces, put them in a saucepan of water, and boil till tender; then drain, and leave them till cold. Boil separately in salted water some potatoes, cauliflower, string beans, and cold slaw, and when cooked drain and leave them till cold. Cut each of the lettuces into eight pieces, mince the potatoes, and separate the sprigs of cauliflower. Mix all the ingredients together in a Salad-bowl, then add some chopped beetroots, gherkins, anchovies, capers, and some small white pickled onions. Make some little bread balls, fry them in olive-oil till crisp, then drain them and mix with the Salad. Garnish the Salad with fillets of an- chovies, slices of hard-boiled eggs, chopped sweet herbs, and serve. Salade d'Estrees. —Put in the centre of a Salad-bowl in equal quantities some endive and sticks of celery that have been blanched and cut into small pieces; surround these with slices of cooked turnip, rooted celery, cold potatoes, beetroot, and truffles, arranging the slices so that they overlap each other. Pour over the Salad some highly seasoned dressing, and serve. Salad a l’ltalienne. — Pare well a good-sized carrot and a good-sized turnip, cut them with a vegetable-scoop, and cook them separately in salted water; the carrot fifteen minutes and the turnip ten. Drain, cool, then place them in a Salad-bowl in a pile. Cut two good-sized truffles into julienne-shaped pieces, and serve six mushrooms the same way, also the breast of a cooked medium-sized chicken, cut lengthwise. Cover the vegetables with a cluster of the truffles, the same of the mushrooms, and repeat with the chicken, keeping each article separate; form a small cavity in the centre of the dome, pour into it 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and sweet oil, season with 1 pinch of salt and l pinch of pepper. Cover the cavity with a piece of cooked cauliflower or Brussels sprouts, or, in default of both, cooked asparagus-tops will answer the purpose; mix well, and serve. Salad of Vegetables with Aspic Jelly.—Boil some .green sprue asparagus and some heads of white large asparagus that have been cut into 2in. lengths and scraped. Boil also some flowerets of cauliflower, French beans, flageolet beans, carrots in balls, potatoes with their skins on, celery-roots’ and beetroots. Take a small bundle of the green asparagus, and keep it together with a ring cut out of carrot; put them on one side with part of the white asparagus and the balls of carrots. Mix the other vegetables together with a Salads—continued. few stoned olives, gherkins, and capers, dust in some pepper and salt, and baste with oil and vinegar. Let the vegetables soak for ten minutes, then drain them and mix up with a few table-spoonfuls of mayonnaise dressing thickened with jelly. Pack a cone-shaped mould in pounded ice, fill it with the vegetable mixture, and leave till set. Fix a paste stand in the centre of a dish, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the Salad out on to the stand. Dip the asparagus that was kept over in half-set jelly, and arrange it all round the base of the stand in an upright position; place a row of cauliflowers above the asparagus, then a row of round carrots; put a second row of cauliflowers, then a circle of olives. Set the small bundle of green asparagus on the top. Coat the Salad over with half-set aspic jelly. Scoop the yolks out of some halves of hard- boiled eggs, and fill the whites with different kinds of Fig. 430. Salad of Vegetables with Aspic Jelly. chopped cooked vegetables that have been mixed with aspic jelly. Garnish the base of the stand with these and croutons of jelly (see Fig. 430), and serve with a sauceboat- ful of mayonnaise sauce with eggs. Spanish Salad.—Bleach some heads of endive, and arrange them in a mound in the middle of a dish; peel some rather large tomatoes, divide them in sections, and place them round the endive. Boil some eggs hard, and when cold cut them into halves ; scoop the yolks out carefully, being careful not to break the whites, and put them in a mortar. Pick some shrimps or lobster, and put them in the mortar with the yolks, and pound to a paste. Fill the hollow of the whites with the paste, level it off at the top, and arrange them round the tomatoes. Strew some chopped shallot and sweet pepper over the endive; mix together in equal quantities some oil and vinegar, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and pour it over the Salad. Serve without delay. Sportsman Salad.—Procure a nice bunch of freshly- gathered watercress, wash it well, removing all the dis- coloured leaves, and drain rather dry on a cloth. Put the watercress in a Salad-bowl with a chopped onion and 2oz. of thinly-sliced undressed kippered salmon. Pour in a suffi- cient quantity of oil and vinegar, and *fetir it well up. Garnish round the bow l with quartered yolks of hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot, and serve. The flesh of kippered mackerel or haddock can be used in place of the salmon if desired. Suedoise Salad.—Cut 2oz. of cooked ox-tongue into small pieces; serve two cooked potatoes the same, also half a peeled apple, half a cooked beetroot, and half a cooked carrot. Place these in a bowl, adding the fillets of a boned herring cut into small pieces, and season with 4 pinch eacli of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoonful of diluted mustard, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and H table-spoon- fuls of oil. Mix all well together, then transfer to a Salad - bowl; sprinkle over 1 pinch of chopped parsley, and serve. Summer Salad.—Thoroughly wash and dry three lettuces and some mustard and cress; the mustard and cress will require special attention, as it is very gritty. Cut the