400 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces—continued. pour in gradually, while still stirring, 1 pint of milk and white stock, mixed in equal quantities, add one large carrot cut into halves, one small onion, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Put into the Sauce whatever meat is intended for the fricassee, and stew it gently by the side of the fire till tender, with the lid fixed tightly on the saucepan. Strain the Sauce through a silk sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Serve while liot. Good Sauce for a fricassee. Sweet Sauces.—These are mostly used to ac- company certain kinds of puddings which, together with those given under specific headings, such as some Fruits and Wines, &c., make up a very large assort- ment. Chantausen Sauce.—Put J pint of cold water into a sauce- pan, with 3oz. of powdered sugar, six cloves, a hay-leaf, and a piece of cinnamon about lin. long, place the pan on the fire, and let the contents boil for five minutes. Dilute loz. of cornflour with 1 gill of cold water, add it to the contents of the pan, and with a whisk stir briskly for two minutes. Add 1 pint of chantausen wine, and stir for one minute longer; then take from off the fire, strain through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. Chaudeau Sauce.—Put the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs into a lined saucepan, with the strained juice of half a lemon, Jib. each of lemon sugar and loaf sugar, and lqt. of Chablis, and whisk them over a slow fire till a light froth is formed. When the Sauce is on the point of boiling, remove the saucepan off the fire, beat the Sauce a few minutes longer, and serve it. Diplomatic Sauce for Pudding.—Boil Jib. of caster sugar in 1 pint of water, then thicken it with flour. Let the Sauce simmer till clear, then mix with it some red fruit juice or red wine, a little pounded mace, and the juice of half a lemon. English Sweet Sauce (a l’Anglaise).—Put into a saucepan the yolks of four eggs, with 4oz. of powdered sugar, and stir with a spatula until it becomes a whitish colour. Add 2 gills of sweet cream, little by little, beating continually, and grate in the rind of one orange. Place the pan on a slow stove and stir the contents well for four minutes, being careful not to let them boil. Take the pan off, strain the Sauce through a sieve, and it is ready for use. Foam Sauce.—(1) Beat the whites of two eggs to a light froth, mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, and beat them again for a few minutes ; then add the strained juice of a lemon and J pint of boiling milk. Serve the Sauce at once. (2) Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it till creamy; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and 1 wineglassful of fruit juice or syrup. When well mixed, add J teacupful of boiling water and the well-whisked white of one egg. Beat the Sauce till foamy, then serve it at once. (3) Rub ljoz. of loaf sugar over the yellow rind of a lemon, then put it in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot, and stir in gradually three well-beaten eggs, | breakfast-cupful of water, and J wineglassful of rum, brandy, or maraschino. Place the saucepan over the fire, whisk the contents until well frothed and on the point of boiling, then move it off immediately. Serve the Sauce with either hot or cold dishes. German Sauce (a l'Allemande) for Puddings.—(1) Beat the yolks of six fresh eggs for about twenty minutes. Put Jib. of caster sugar into a lined saucepan with J pint of marsala, stir it over the fire until hot, and then move it to the side, as it must not boil. Stir the beaten yolks in with the wine, and add the strained juice of a small lemon. Whisk the Sauce at the edge of the fire until well frothed and thickened, when it will be ready for serving. (2) Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Pour J pint of white wine, hock if possible, into a jug, squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice, and add the eggs. Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling- water, which should be placed by the side of the fire, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces—continued. whisk the contents to a stiff froth. Serve the Sauce either in a sauceboat or over the pudding for which it was intended, bearing in mind always that the Sauce must only be made just before it is wanted. Golden Sauce.—(1) Break a nutmeg into pieces, put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with lib. of sugar, then stir it into the boiling- water, and stir over the fire till the cornflour is cooked; then add Jib. of butter. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 table-spoonful of the Sauce, then stir them quickly into the remainder, which should be immediately removed from the fire, as the yolks will curdle if boiled. Strain the Sauce, and it is then ready for serving. (2) Put 4oz. of butter into a basin, warm it before the fire, and beat it by hand until creamy; then stand the basin over a saucepan containing hot water, mix with the butter 4oz. of brown sugar, and continue stirring until the sugar has completely dissolved. Next stir in the beaten yolk of an egg, and, when thickened, 1 wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Serve while hot. Hard Sauce.—(1) Put in a bowl 2oz. of very fresh butter with 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar; then with a spatula beat together sharply for twenty minutes, add J saltspoon- ful of powdered mace, beat briskly for five minutes longer, arrange it on a dish, and place it on ice for two minutes before serving. (2) Beat with 1 breakfast-cupful of butter 2 breakfast- cupfuls of caster sugar; when of the consistency of cream, add the strained juice of one lemon and J teacupful of white wine. Continue beating till the Sauce is nearly a solid mass, then smooth it with a knife, and stamp it. It should be kept on ice till ready to serve. (3) Beat 1 teacupful of butter to a cream in a warm basin, then mix 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar with it and beat them both well together; flavour the sauce with essence of lemon, vanilla, or a little grated nutmeg. Keep the Sauce on ice till ready to serve. (4) Slightly warm Jib. of butter, mix with it 6 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a squeeze of lemon-juice, and beat it until creamy. Pile the Sauce in a small glass dish, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and serve with the pudding. Polish Sweet Sauce (a la Polonaise).—Put loz. of butter into a sancepan, and melt it; then put in 1 table-spoonful each of flour and sugar, and stir them over the fire until browned. Mix with the above ingredients about 2 table- spoonfuls each of stoned and chopped raisins, well washed and dried currants, and blanched and thinly-shred almonds, also a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, grated lemon-peel, and bruised cloves. Moisten with 1J breakfast-cupfuls of red wine, and boil the Sauce gently for fifteen minutes, when the Sauce will be ready for serving. Sabayon Sauce with Madeira (au Madere).—Put into a saucepan the yolks of four eggs and ljoz. of powdered sugar; place it on a hot stove, and with a wire whisk beat well for two minutes. Drop in gradually 2 gills of Madeira wine, stir continually for two minutes, take from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve over the pudding with which it is to be served. Sauce a la Diaz.—Put into a saucepan J pint of rum, 3oz. of granulated sugar, and half a split vanilla-bean; grate in the rind of a medium-sized orange, and add 1 gill of marsala wine. Place the pan on the stove, and as soon as the liquid catches fire put on the cover and boil for one minute only. Set the pan on one side to allow the contents to infuse for five minutes, strain through a fine sieve into a bowl, transfer the Sauce to a jar, cover tightly, and let it cool off thoroughly. When ready to serve, pour the Sauce over the pudding, and serve it. Sauce for Plum Pudding.—(1) Put 1 large table-spoonful of butter into a stewpan ; when it has melted, stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and mix well; then pour in gradually 14 breakfast-cupfuls of hot water, and stir over the fire till cooked; then add Jib. of brown sugar, 2 teaspoon- fuls of lemon-juice, and a little grated nutmeg. When the sugar has dissolved, serve the Sauce. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.