214 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. POLISH SAUCE.—See Sauces. POLKA PUDDING.—See Puddings. POLLOCK or POLLACK.—A kind of coarse cod- fisli, sometimes called Green Cod, and usually exported from the Newfoundland fisheries as salted cod. POLONIES.—A vulgarism for Bologna Sausage. See Bologna. POMEGRANATES (Fr. Grenades ; Ger. Granatap- fel; Ital. Melagrave; Sp. Granadas).—The tree hearing this fruit (Tunica granatum) (see Fig. 272) is a native of Northern Africa and Western Asia. The name signifies an apple with many grains, in consequence of the interior of the fruit being made up of a quantity of grains or seeds, paoked closely and embedded in a very delicious red Fig. 272. Pomegranate. pulp. The rind is tough and leathery, of a golden brown colour, tinged with red; and as it contains a very large proportion of tannin, is used for curing skins, especially those known as Morocco leather. Compote of Pomegranates.—Cut a small circle out of the skins of five or six Pomegranates, and with the point of a sharp knife, cut them down the sides. Take out the pips without injuring them, put them into a compote-dish, pour over some syrup flavoured with maraschino or orange juice, and serve. Pomegranate Comfits.—Peel some good cooking apples, and put them over the fire hi just enough water to cover them; when they are quite soft, press the pulp through a sieve, and strain it. Add to the strained pulp the juice and grated rind of an orange and lemon, and the juice of two or three Pomegranates; boil all together and strain. To every pound of tliis add 1 |lb. of powdered white sugar boiled to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling), and a colouring of cochineal. Take off the scum before it cools, pour it into glasses, and put them in a stove; when the tops of the cakes are dry, turn them, and put them again in the stove. When almost dry cut them into whatever shapes they are to be, and put them into the stove or the oven to harden; then lay them on sieves, and when perfectly dry, put them away in boxes with paper between them. They should be looked over occasionally, as they are apt to get damp. Pomegranate Jelly.—(1) Make 1 pint of syrup from some Pomegranate-seeds, put it into a saucepan with 4oz. of loaf sugar, loz. of gelatine, the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, h pint of water, and the beaten whites and shells of three eggs; add a few drops of cochineal. Stand the saucepan over a slow fire and whisk the con- tents till on the point of boiling, then move it off the fire and allow it to stand for ten minutes. Pour lqt. of boil- ing water through a jelly-bag to warm it, then pour the jelly through it several times till clear. Pour the jelly into a mould, and set it in a cool place. When quite firm, dip the mould in warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, turn it quickly out on to a dish, and serve. Pomegranates—continued. (2) Take out the seeds of five fine Pomegranates, and squeeze out the juice by pressing it through a hair sieve; filter the juice and sweeten it to taste with clarified sugar, made rose colour with cochineal. Add to this some isinglass in the proportion of loz., soaked and dissolved in 1 gill of water, to 1 pint of juice. Mix juice and isinglass well together, pour it into an earthenware mould dipped into cold water so that the inside may be quite wet, let it stand till 'well set, then turn out on a glass or silver dish, and serve. Pomegranate Syrup.—Take the seeds (which must be very red) from five very ripe, good-sized Pomegranates, crush them, and put them over the fire in £ pint of water. When soft, put them into a straining-cloth and squeeze the juice from them. Clarify l£lb. of loaf sugar, boil it to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), then add the juice; mix it well with the sugar and give it a boil, and if not thick enough continue the boiling till it is. When of the required consistency, take it off the fire and let it cool; when quite cold, bottle and cork it. Five large Pomegranates should be sufficient to make lqt. of syrup. Pomegranate Water.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the juice of Pomegranates into a basin and add f pint of syrup at 32deg. (see SYRUrs), the juice of two lemons, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and 1 teaspoonful of essence of roses to flavour. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into the freezer, and it is soon ready for use. Pomegranate Water-Ice.—(1) Put the pips from seven or eight Pomegranates on to a sieve placed over a basin, and squeeze them with a wooden spoon to extract all the juice. There should lie quite 1 pint of the juice, and if not one or two more Pomegranates must be used. Add to the juice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of syrup, the juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of meringue, a few drops of cochineal to colour, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour it. Pour the mixture into the freezer, then into a mould packed in ice, and when it is set turn it out, and it is ready for use. Stewed Pomegranates.—Cut about four Pomegranates into halves, and take out all the grains; put the small ones into a cloth and press out all the juice into a saucepan; mix with it an equal quantity of water and 4oz. of loaf sugar, stir it over a slow fire until thick, then take it off and leave it until cold. Arrange the Pomegranates in a dish, pour the syrup over them, sprinkle in a few drops of essence of orange-flower water, put in a few small pieces of ice, and serve. POMERANIAN SOUP.—See Soups. POMPADOUR SAUCE—See Sauces. POMPANO.—Along some parts of the American coast this fish (Trachynotus carolinus) is regarded as a great delicacy. It has something of the flattened appearance of the sun-fish and the brilliant silvery lustre of the mackerel. When broiled it has a peculiar flavour, re- sembling pickled walnuts. Broiled Pompano.—Scrape and clean a Pompano, and if it is a large fish divide it down the back and through the head, but if a small fish weighing about lib. it may be cooked whole. Sprinkle well over with salt and pepper, put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, with the skin side downwards, warm it a little, then brush it over with butter, and add a little more salt and pepper if desired. Return it to the gridiron and broil it on both sides until done. Put it on a dish, squeeze a little lemon-juice over it, and serve with a little tartar sauce either poured round or in a sauceboat. PONTAC KETCHUP.—See Ketchup. POOR MAN’S PUDDING.—See Puddings. " POOR MAN’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. POP-CORN.—See Indian Corn.