366 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads Salmon—continued. bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful each of black pepper and allspice, and a little salt; pour it over the fish. Keep the Salmon in a cool place ; on the following day it will be ready for use. (2) Divide a Salmon into three pieces, and clean, wash, and boil them in a brine strong enough to iloat an egg; they should be put in cold brine and allowed to simmer gently till cooked, skimming frequently. Put lqt. of vinegar in a vessel with 3 pints of water, 1 breakfast- cupful of loaf sugar, and about 15 drops of oil of cloves, and boil them together slowly. Drain the Salmon, and when cold pack it carefully in an earthenware jar, and pour the pickle over it. Tie some stout brown paper over the jar, and keep it in a dry place. Pickled Salmon a la Turque.—Procure 61b. of Salmon, and cut it into slices; wash them, dry them on a cloth, rub over with salt, and fry them in olive oil till nicely browned on both sides. Pour 3 pints of vinegar into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls each of saffron-water and caster sugar, and stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling. Cover the bottom of a jar with bay- leaves and myrtle-leaves, then put in the slices of fish, placing between each layer pieces of garlic, skinned pistachios, peppercorns, mixed spices, and bay- and myrtle- leaves v,:>ver the top slices with bay-leaves and myrtle- leaves, and pour over the boiling vinegar. Put a plate over the jar with a weight on the top to press the con- tents, and leave them for three days. At the end of that time the pickle will be ready for use; it may be kept for some time. Potted Salmon.—(1) Take a piece of Salmon, do not wash it, but wipe it very dry, and scale it; lay it on a dish, sprinkle salt over, and rub it well in. Let the fish remain in the salt till the salt has all melted and dr. Tied away, the dish being placed in a slightly-sloping posi 'on so that the salt may drain off as it dissolves. When ready, place the fish in a deep baking-pan, together with a seasoning of bruised mace, cloves, whole peppers, and three or four bay-leaves; put plenty of butter over it, cover the pan close, and bake the Salmon. When well done, drain the fish from the liquor, press it into pots, and let it get quite cold; then pour into each pot sufficient clarified butter to cover. (2) Take |lb. of cold boiled Salmon, pick it free from all bones and skin, and pound it in a mortar with 3oz. of butter, white pepper, cayenne, mace, and salt to taste. When it is well mixed and pounded to a smooth paste press it into a glass jar, and pour over sufficient butter melted before the fire to cover it completely. If this is stored in a cool place, it will keep good for a week or ten days. (3) Remove the bones and skin from some cooked Salmon, pound it in a mortar, put the paste into an earthenware jar, and stand the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height. When the fish is hot add a large piece of butter and a little essence of anchovies, move the saucepan off the fire, and stir the fish till cold; then put it into smaller jars, and leave it for one day. Pour a little clarified butter in each jar, tie over with paper, and keep them in a cool place. Salmon potted in this way will keep for six or eight days. Boasted Salmon.—(1) Procure a piece of Salmon from the middle, flour it well, put it in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, anil baste continually with butter while cooking. When cooked, put the Salmon on an ornamental dish- paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with lemon, and serve. (2) Remove the bones from a piece of Salmon, cut the flesh into small equal-sized pieces, rub them over with salt, pepper, and finely-chopped parsley, and leave them for an hour or two. Stick the pieces of meat on skewers, alternating each with a bay-leaf, put them in front of a moderate fire, and turn them occasionally until nicely browned. When cooked, put the pieces of fish on a hot dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley over them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. Boiled Salmon a l’lrlandaise.—Parboil 31b. of boned Salmon, sprinkle it inside and out with 1 pinch of salt, £ pinch of Salmon—continued. pepper, and the same of nutmeg. Mix twelve chopped oysters, 1 table-spoonful of parsley, and h breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs with one egg. Roll up the Salmon after stuffing it with the foregoing mixture, then put it in a deep pan with loz. of butter. Bake in a hot oven for twenty-five minutes, and serve on a dish, pouring the gravy over. Salmon a l’Allemande.—Clean and wash a large Salmon, cut it into slices about 2in. thick, leaving the tail-part about 4in. long, and a thick piece attached to the head. Disgorge all the blood from the inside; sprinkle the pieces with salt, let them remain for half-an hour, turn them over, and serve in the same way; then wash them well and dry them. Put them all flat upon a well- buttered fish-drainer, place it in the kettle, cover the fish with slices of lemon freed from pips, and lay here and there a few slices of shallots, parsley-roots, and whole or chilli peppers. Cover the kettle, set it on a slow fire with hot ashes on the top, let the Salmon cook for thirty or forty minutes, uncover it, and ascertain if it is sufficiently cooked and the flesh firm. Remove it from the kettle, let it cool, taking away all the slices of shallots and lemons, and most of the parsley. Notv place the head on a napkin spread over a dish, next to it put the slice that was cut from it, and so on, until the fish is in its original shape, then garnish with sprigs of parsley. Pour into the kettle 1 pint of boiling consomme or stock, stir it round well, strain it into a sauceboat, and serve. Salmon d la Genoise.—Put 21b. or so of Salmon into a fish-kettle, and season with salt, a sliced onion, eight whole peppers, two cloves, and two roots of parsley; pour over sufficient cold water to cover, and add i wineglassful of white vinegar. Bring the liquor to the boil, and boil slowly for five minutes, by which time the fish should be cooked; take it out of the kettle by means of the drainer, let it drain, place it on a hot dish over a napkin, and glaze the surface of the fish with crayfish butter. Garnish with four clusters of mushrooms—four mushrooms in each cluster—and six cooked crayfish, and serve Genoise sauce in a sauceboat. Salmon a la Gouffe.—Wash the Salmon, and tie the head round with string; put it in a fish-kettle, cover it with mirepoix, put some sheets of buttered paper on the top, and let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour. Prepare a ragout of whiting forcemeat quenelles, mushrooms, carp’s roes, and truffles, mixed in Spanish sauce and reduced with essence of mushrooms and truffles. Drain the Salmon, remove the top skin, and stick four contised fillets of sole on it with a little forcemeat; place a sheet of buttered paper over all, and put the Salmon in the oven to cook the sole. Make a rice socle, 2in. high and a little smaller than the fish, on a dish; remove the buttered paper from the fish, put it on the rice socle, pour the ragout round it in the dish, arrange on the ragout some carp’s roes, six large whiting forcemeat quenelles, thirteen truffles, and ten crayfish, all prepared as for garnishes, and put round alternately. Stick a crayfish on each of four silver skewers, then a round quenelle, and lastly a mushroom ; pass the skewers into the Salmon through the contised fillets of sole. Serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce. Salmon au Gratin.—(1) Put some nicely-picked pieces of cold boiled Salmon on a dish, season them with salt and pepper, and pour over a little ketchup. Prepare some butter sauce, pour it over the fish, and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs; baste them with warmed butter, put them in the oven, and heat thoroughly. Brown the top under a red-hot salamander, and serve. (2) Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and chopped onions in a stewpan with a little salad-oil, and toss them for four or five minutes over the fire; then add 3 pints of brown sauce, and boil it till reduced one-third. Put in with the above ingredients 1 teaspoonful each of Harvey’s sauce and essence of anchovies, a little sugar, cayenne, a pinch of scraped garlic, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Remove all the skin and bones from some cold remains of Salmon, and season it with pepper and salt. Mask the bottom of a dish with a little of the