250 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Prunes—continued. Turn the jelly into a stewpan, and boil it for a few minutes, stirring all the time. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds and split them lengthwise into halves, ornament the interior of a mould with them, fixing them in with a little liquid jelly, carefully pour in the Prune jelly, and stand it on ice or in a very cool temperature. Make some nice cream sauce and let it get cold. When ready, dip the mould quickly into hot water to loosen the jelly, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Prune Loaf.—Put lilt, of Prunes into a lined saucepan with loz. of moist sugar, J pint of port, and nearly | pint of water; boil them until tender, and then remove the stones. Cut some rounds of bread about lin. in diameter, pour over them some warmed butter, and then line a mould with them; next spread in a layer of marmalade, put in the Prunes, and cover them with some of the rounds of buttered bread. Tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the loaf out on to a dish. Prune Pudding.—(1) Pour lqt. of milk into a basin, and add two well-beaten eggs and sufficient flour to make the whole into a thick paste; sprinkle a little Hour over Jib. or so of well-washed Prunes, stir them into the paste, and turn it into a floured pudding-cloth ; put this in a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for two hours. Turn the pudding out on to a dish and serve with a little butter and sugar, or a sauceboatful of wine sauce. (2) Put 4 table spoonfuls of flour into a basin with 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted ginger and a small quantity of salt. Mix it smoothly with the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of three, and pour in gradually lqt. of milk. When quite smooth add fib. of Prunes. Rinse a cloth out in hot water, flour it, and tie the pudding mixture up in it. Put it into a basin that will exactly hold it, place this in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for one hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust it over with caster sugar, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and serve. (3) Put lib. of Prunes into a lined stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of moist sugar, and moisten them with h pint of port wine and 1 teacupful of water. Stew them gently irntil tender, then remove the stones, crack them, and put the kernels in with the fruit. Prepare some puff paste, roll it out about Jin. thick, and spread the Prunes over it, leaving a clear margin all round, which moisten with a paste-brush dipped in water. Roll up the paste, and pinch it well at the edges so that the Prunes shall not escape. Roll it in a well-floured and buttered stout pudding-cloth, tie up firmly, and boil between two and three hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a sweet wine sauce poured over it. (4) Finely chop 6oz. of beef-suet and mix with it in a basin 7oz. of grated breadcrumbs, 2oz. of sugar, and lib. of chopped Prunes. Well beat three eggs together with 1 tea- cupful of milk and I dessert-spoonful of ratafia, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Let the whole stand for an hour, then tie a pudding-cloth over the basin, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. The pudding should be stirred again before tying the cloth over it. When cooked, turn it out on to a hot dish and serve. Prune Sauce.—Put Jib. of Prunes into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and boil them until soft; remove the stones from the fruit, break them up small in a mortar, then put them in with the fruit, and add a thin strip of lemon-peel, the strained juice of the lemon, sugar to taste, a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and 11 wineglassfuls of port wine. Let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire for a few minutes, then nib it through a coarse wire sieve, and serve. Stewed Prunes.—(1) Put lib. of Pnines into a basin of lukewarm water and wash them well; then put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water in which Jib. of sugar has been dissolved, and add the juice and thin rind of a lemon. Set the saucepan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for an hour, by which time the fruit Prunes—con tinued. should be so tender that it will mash when gently pressed. Take out the Prunes and drain them, put the saucepan with the syrup on the fire, and boil it to that degree when it is on the point of resolving itself into sugar. Put the Pnines in a shallow dish, and pour the syrup over, shak- Fig. 313. Stewed Prunes. ing them until well covered, but taking care not to break them. Let them remain in this syrup for twelve hours, then put them in a pile in a glass dish (see Fig. 313), and serve. (2) If the Prunes are at all gritty they should be washed in cold water. Put them in a basin with plenty of sugar and sufficient cold water to cover them, put a plate on top of the basin, and stand it in a moderate oven. When tender, let the Prunes get cold, then turn them into a glass dish, and serve with custard or whipped cream piled on the top of them. They are also very nice served hot with plain boiled rice. (3) Put lOoz. of Pnines in a vessel with lqt. of cold water, let them soak for four hours, and afterwards drain them. Put them in a saucepan with J pint of cold water, the zest of a lemon, a 2in. piece of cinnamon, 2oz. of butter, and 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar. Place the pan on a slow fire, and with a spatula stir carefully and gently now and again, to avoid breaking the fruit. Let them cook slowly for two hours, then remove the pan from the stove and add immediately 1 pint of Bordeaux wine; replace it on the stove and heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to boil again. Take from off the fire, pour the Prunes into a stone jar, and let them get cold. FRUNELET.—A liquor made from sloes or the German black plum. PRUSSIAN CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. PTARMIGAN.—These are a kind of grouse which inhabit the northern countries and high mountains of Europe, Asia, and America. The European Ptarmigan (Lagopus mutus) and some other varieties have brown plumage in summer, which turns white or nearly white in winter. The feet are usually feathered to the ex- tremity of the outside claw. Ptarmigan can be cooked according to the receipts given for grouse, or as follow: Broiled Ptarmigan.—Pluck, singe, and wipe three fat Ptarmigan, chop off the heads, and split the birds down the backs without separating them. Place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, pour over 1 table- spoonful of sweet oil, roll the birds in this, and put them to broil over a moderate fire for seven minutes on each side. Place six pieces of toast on a hot dish, arrange the birds on the top, cover with about 1 teacupful of maitre-d’hotel butter, and serve with a garnish of water- cress. Roasted Ptarmigan.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe four or five Ptarmigan, and truss them in the same way as a grouse. Put them on a spit or in front of a clear fire, and roast for about half-an-hour. A few minutes before they are cooked, dredge them over with flour, and baste well with their drippings and a little butter. Put them on a dish well sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and serve with a little bread sauce and brown gravy in separate sauce- boats.