TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 245 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Prairie Hen or Chicken—continued. Boil the whole for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for two hours unless the birds are young, when about half that time will be sufficient. When cooked, drain the cabbage and put it on a dish, lay the birds on the cabbage, arid garnish with Fig. 306. Stewed Prairie Chicken. the sausage cut in slices and the bacon (see Fig. 30(1). Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and boil up again quickly; pour some over the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. PRALINES.—Any sweets made with burnt sugar, such as burnt almonds. "Varieties will be found described under their special headings. PRAWNS (Fr. Crevettes; Ger. Flohkrebs).—The origin of this word is said to be unknown, but Kettner believes it to be derived from the word prong, on account of the projection on the front of the Prawn’s head. The English Prawn (Palxmon serratus) is caught when small, in large quantities, on most coasts, and is sold in our markets as “ pink shrimps,” being of a pinkish-red when cooked. But these are readily distinguished from the brown shrimp, not only by the colour, but also by the shape of the body, which is narrower and slightly humped in the centre (see Fig. 307), and on account of the saw- like projection springing from between the eyes. Large Prawns are caught singly, by a tedious process, amongst the rocks of the sea-shore. They are much used for garnish, and for ornamental dishes. Prawns are some- times sold preserved in tins, but they are not so good as those that are fresh. See Bisk. Boiled Prawns.—Put 1 pint of Prawns that have been well washed into a saucepan of water, sufficient to cover them, and add salt in the proportion of Jib. to every gallon of water. Set the pan on a quick fire and boil for eight minutes or so, skimming frequently. Take them out, drain on a sieve, and they are ready for serving. They may be served in several ornamental ways, such as putting them in rows as closely as possible round a lemon, fixing them by their horns or tails; or the crumb of a roll may be used instead of the lemon, when it should be cut up like a cake and served with them, a few sprigs of parsley being intermixed. Buttered Prawns.—Pull 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Prawns out of their shells, dredge over with salt and pepper to taste, I put them into a saucepan, pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls j of good rich gravy, and add a small lump of butter well kneaded with flour to thicken it. Set the pan at the side Prawns—continued. of the fire, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then turn the Prawns out on to a dish, and serve. Curried Prawns.—(1) Slice a moderate-sized onion and a shallot, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until brown; then mix in with them 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder, and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of broth. Stir until boiling, then put in a small piece of grated cocoa-nut rind, and let the whole simmer at the side of the fire for an hour. Next pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and leave it until cool. Pick about \ pint of Prawns from their shells, put them and the sauce into a stewpan with the milk from the cocoa-nut and the juice of a lemon, and heat gently ; then turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or crofitons of fried bread, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. (2) Take about a hundred fresh Prawns, pull them out of their shells, put them into a saucepan with 4 table- spoonfuls each of rich veal gravy and cream, and add half a blade of mace. Warm loz. of butter, and mb it into 1 teaspoonful of flour and 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of curry- powder ; when in a smooth paste, stir them into the Prawn mixture, set the saucepan at the side of the fire, ami simmer gently for an hour or so. When nearly done, dredge in a little salt, add the juice of half a lemon, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. (3) Indian Style.—Remove the heads and shells from about forty large Prawns, thoroughly wash the meat in salted water, put it into a mortar, and pound it well, adding gradually 1 teaspoonful each of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-sifted bread- crumbs. Make the mixture into a mass by adding one well-beaten egg and a little broth if required. Well wash the heads of the Prawns, pick out all the soft inside parts, put it into a mortar with 1 dessert spoonful of unroasted coriander-seeds, and pound well together. Boil 3oz. or 4oz. of fat or mustard oil, using the latter for preference, add loz. of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half the quantity each of ground green ginger and peppercorns, 1 saltspoon- ful of ground garlic, and 1 dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped sweet herbs. Brown these slightly, sprinkle a little water over them, add the forcemeat ball anil salt to taste, brown them, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of broth or water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about two hours, or until the balls are done. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Lobsters and crabs may also be used, and require to be treated in the same manner. (4) Parboil about two dozen large Prawns, then remove their shells, and pick the coral out from their heads. Put the trimmings of the Prawns in a stew- pan with J breakfast-cupful of cold water, and boil for about ten minutes, then strain the liquor. Put 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful of ground turmeric, and a small clove of garlic finely minced; add a small quantity of ground chillies, and fry the whole for a few minutes. Next put in the Prawns, season to taste with salt, and when they are nicely browned pour in the liquor from the trimmings. Stew them gently at the edge of the fire for about ten minutes. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot. Curried Prawns with Pumpkin (American).—For this large Prawns should be obtained. Remove the heads and shells from about twenty, and parboil them to get rid of the disagreeable fishy smell and taste. Put 2oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, put in 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, and J teaspoonful of ground garlic, and brown them; then add the Prawns and 1 (, teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry them brown. Take off the green skin from a quarter of a large pumpkin, remove the seeds, and cut it up into 2in. squares; steep them in cold water, and drain them. If cucumbers are used, about the same bulk must be taken. Pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cocoa-nut milk, add 4 blades of lemon- grass, three or four ground cloves, and the same of ground cardamoms and ground small sticks of cinnamon. Simmer