224 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fork—continued. oven ; baste the meat frequently while baking until it is nicely browned. Half-an hour before taking the meat out of the oven, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream over it. When the Pork is thoroughly done through (it will re- quire about three hours’ slow baking), put it on a hot dish; skim the fat off the sauce, and strain it over the meat. Serve the Pork while very hot. Baked Pickled Pork and Beans.—Put Iqt. of haricot beans that have been soaked for twelve hours into a saucepan of water, and boil them gently until they are done and can be easily pierced with a pin. Great care must be taken not to boil them too fast, or they will break. A small chopped onion may also be boiled with them if desired. Turn them out into a colander and pour over cold water to cool them. Put fib. of salted Pork cut into three or four strips into a deep baking-dish, and pour in sufficient boiling water to cover the bottom of the dish. Bury the pieces of Pork in the beans. Put 1 tea- spoonful of salt into a basin, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of mustard mixed with \ teacupful of molasses; pour in sufficient boiling water to make the quantity l pint in all, pour this mixture over the beans and Pork, and add more boiling water so that they are all well moistened. Put the dish into a moderate oven and bake for an hour. Turn the beans out on to a dish, and serve with the pieces of Pork in the centre (see Fig. 284). A teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda may be added to the saucepan in which the beans are being boiled, and it will destroy the acid taste of the skins. Baked Pickled Pork on Toast.—Cut the Pork into thin slices; have as many slices of bread as there are of Pork, toast them, then trim off the crusts and lay them on a dish that will bear the heat of the oven and that can be served at table. Put the slices of Pork on the toast. Beat half-a dozen eggs with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and pour them over the Pork; dust a small quantity of salt and pepper over. Bake it in a quick oven for twenty minutes, then take it out, and serve while hot. Boiled Belly of Pickled Pork.—Select a good streaky piece of the belly part of pickled Pork, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil until it is quite done, allowing forty-five minutes or thereabouts for each 4lb. of Pork. Put the Pork on a dish, garnish it with boiled greens or cauli- flowers, and serve very hot. Boiled Chine of Pickled Pork.—Pickle a chine of Pork for ten days, turning it daily. Take it out, drain, put it into a saucepan with water to about 2in. above its height, set the pan on the fire, and boil it, skimming frequently. It will take a little more than fifteen minutes for each pound to cook it thoroughly. Take it out, drain, put it on a dish, and serve with a garnish of boiled greens or cauliflowers. A little apple sauce sent to table with it in a sauceboat is a valuable addition. Boiled Hand of Pickled Pork.—Put a salted hand of Pork into a basin of water, and let it remain for a couple of hours to soak. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with more than sufficient water to cover it, set the pan on a clear fire, and boil gently for about an hour. Take it out when done, drain off all the liquor, put it on a dish, and serve. A dish of peas-pudding or cooked greens, or both, should be sent to table with it. Boiled Leg of Pickled Pork.—Rub a leg of Pork well over with salt, put it into pickle, and let it remain for For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pork—continued. seven or eight days, rubbing it well with the pickle every day. Take it out, put it into a bowl of water, and let it soak for an hour. Put it into a saucepan with a large supply of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil slowly until it is done, removing all the scum as it rises. When done, take it out, drain off all the liquor from it, put it on a dish, and serve with a dish of hot pease-pudding as an accompaniment. The liquor may he used for making pea- soup. The ham may be boiled in a cloth, in which case the liquor will not be of any further use and may be thrown away. Boiled Pickled Pork and Cabbage.—Pare neatly and divide a medium-sized cabbage into four pieces; wash them well, parboil for ten minutes, and put them into any kind of vessel with lib. of well-washed salt Pork, three sausages, a branch of celery, an onion, two large carrots, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, half a pinch of pepper, but no salt, and cover with a buttered paper. Simmer on a gentle fire for an-hour-and-a-half; then place the cabbage in a dish, using a skimmer, also the Pork and sausages, laying them on top; decorate the dish with the rest of the vegetables, and serve. Boiled Pickled Pork -with Parsnips.—Salted Pork and parsnips are stewed together for half-an-lionr; the water is drained oil’, and the Pork and parsnips are sliced and browned together, with a seasoning of salt and pepper. This is a favourite American dish. Pried Pickled Pork and Apples.—Slice lib. of salted Pork about Jin. thick, put it over the fire in plenty of boiling water, and boil it for half-an-hour; then drain it, and roll it in corn-meal seasoned with salt and pepper. Put into a large frying-pan enough dripping to cover the bottom, and while it is heating cut some sour apples in eights, without peeling them, and remove the cores. When the drippings are hot, put in the Pork and apples, and fry them together until the apples are just tender, but not at all broken, and the Pork is brown. Serve them on the same dish. The drippings may be poured over them unless this is likely to make the dish too fat. Omelet of Pickled Pork.—Cut loz. of salted Pork into small square pieces, also 2 table-spoonfuls of crust off a fresh loaf of bread cut the same way, and fry them together in a frying-pan with loz. of butter for about two minutes, adding a boiled potato cut into small squares, a pinch of chopped parsley, half a pinch each of chopped chives, salt, and pepper. Beat twelve eggs for four minutes in a bowl, pour them into the pan, and make an omelet, as described under Omelets. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve. Pickled-Pork Stuffing for Turkeys.—Chop fine Jib. of fat and lean salted Pork, and break fine 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of bread; put them over the fire in a frying-pan with 2 piled table-spoonfuls of blitter, and fry them brown. Season this forcemeat rather highly with salt, pepper, and any powdered sweet herbs, except sage, and use it for stuffing a turkey. Boasted Leg of Pickled Pork a la Boisseau.—Procure a leg of Pork that has been in salt for about four days, put it in boiling water for a few minutes, then take it out and skin it. Roast the Pork in front of a clear fire for an-hour-and-a-half, then cover it with plenty of bread- crumbs, baste it well, and continue roasting it till well browned. Put some finely-chopped sage and onions into a saucepan with a small quantity of thick brown gravy, and boil till the onions are tender. Put the sage and onions on a hot dish, and when cooked lay the Pork on the top. Serve it while very hot with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. Boiled Pickled Pork.—Remove all the small bones from a breast of young, fresh Pork, rub it well with salt and a small quantity of saltpetre, and leave it for two or three days. When required for use, wash it in plenty of cold water, then wipe it dry. Put a layer of sliced pickled gherkins and tongue over the Pork, dust it with black pepper and a small quantity of powdered cloves, roll it up and bind it tightly with twine. Put a few sliced onions, two bay-leaves, and a bunch of sweet herbs in a deep ices, &c., referred, to, see under their special heads.