THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 305 VOL. II. X Ramekins—continued. put the Ramekins on it, strew a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top of each, and serve while very hot. Ramekins a la Genevaise.—Cover the bottom of a well- buttered shallow dish with slices of bread cut Ain. thick, and pour over as much milk as they will absorb without breaking. Put a sufficient quantity of grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) to cover the slices of bread into a saucepan on the fire, and dissolve it in milk and butter or cream, stirring well until it is quite smooth. Spread it over the bread, put the dish Raspberries—continued. and in Scotland the fruit and plant alike are generally known as rasps. The juice of the Raspberry is exceedingly luscious, and possesses a peculiarly rich aroma, for which reason it is Fig. 356. Ramekin a la Genevaise. Fig. 359. Raspueriues. much used by cooks, confectioners, and the manufacturers of liqueurs. Nicholson, in his “ Dictionary of Gardening,” recommends the following varieties, but Red Antwerp is considered the best. Baumforth’s Seedling, large, dark crimson, of excellent fla- vour; Belle de Fontenay, large, round, red ; Carter’s Prolific, large, deep red, firm, of good flavour; Fastolf, very large, globu- lar, bright red, of good flavour ; Large-fruited Monthly, rather large, deep purplish-red, of excellent flavour ; McLaren’s Prolific, roundish, large, deep crimson ; Northumberland Fillbasket, large, deep red, of good flavour ; October Red and October Yellow, red and yellow respectively; Prince of Wales, very large, globular, deep crimson, of excellent flavour; Red Antwerp, large, conical, dull red, of brisk flavour; Yellow Antwerp, medium-sized, pale yellow, rich, and sweet. Bottled Raspberries. -Remove the stalks and unsound fruit from the Raspberries, put them into bottles, and pour over sufficient syrup at ‘26deg. (see SUGAR-BOILING) to fill; place the bottles in a large saucepan with water to half their height, and simmer very gently for five minutes. Let the bottles cool, pour off all the syrup into a sugar-boiler, and turn the fruit from one bottle into that of another, so as to have two lots of it in one bottle. Add to the syrup a quarter of its bulk in Raspberry-juice, boil up once, skim well, pour it into the bottles over the fruit, cork them down when cold, and the Raspberries are then ready for use. in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes, by which time the cheese should be quite brown, and adhere to the dish. Vi hen done, take it out and serve at once. Bee Fig. 356. RAMFION.—A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the bellflower family. It is much cultivated in France and Italy, and sometimes in Great Britain, for the roots (see Fig. 357), which are boiled tender and eaten hot with sauce, or cold with vinegar and pepper. At one time the Rampion highly esteemed as a vege- able in this country, but as the cultivation was super- seded by other root crops, that yielded more satisfac- torily (to the horticulturist), this root was neglected, and becoming scarcer, and con- sequently more expensive, was eventually discarded from the kitchen as being too costly as compared with its culi- nary value. This neglect is not altogether wise, for it may be grown in fields, and the leaves form an excellent food for cattle. RANGES.—See Stoves and Ranges. was much used and very Fig. 357. Rampion. RAPE.—The refuse stems and skins of grapes or raisins, from which the must has been expressed in wine- making. A poor thin wine is made from these. RARE.—A term sometimes used to signify underdone or nearly raw meat, such as Rare beef or mutton. RAREBIT.—See Cheese for Welsh Rarebit. RASP.—A coarse broad file with a turned-back handle (see Fig. 358) used by bakers to remove the burnt crust from loaves, rolls, &c. RASPBERRIES (Fr. Fram- boises ; Ger. Himbeeren).—The F,G- ^58. Rasp- plant (Rubios Id;eus) from which this delicious fruit (see Fig. 359) is gathered is a native of Great Britain, and of most countries in Europe. The term rasp is given to it because of the roughness of its berry. In some parts the fruit is called hindberry, Frozen Raspberries. —Put I pint of sugar and lqt. of water into a sugar-boiler and boil for lialf-an-hour; then add Agall. of ripe Raspberries and cook for a-quarter-of-an-hour longer. Let this mixture cool; add the juice of three lemons, pour the whole into the freezer, work it well, take out the beater, and pour in 1 pint of well-whipped cream. When the preparation is frozen turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Iced Raspberries. -The Raspberries must be large and good; hull them and carefully examine the hollows to be sure that there are no insects in them. Beat up the white of an egg with \ wineglassful of water; dip the Raspberries, one at a time, into the mixture of egg and water, roll them in powdered sugar one at a time as they are taken out of the water, lay them apart from one another on white paper, and leave them there till they are quite dry, which will probably take six hours. When perfectly dry, keep in a dry cool place till served for dessert. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.