394 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. shallots are tender, remove the bunch of parsley and onion, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. The Sauce is then ready for use. (3) Put | pint of vinegar and water mixed in equal quantities into a saucepan with a little lemon-juice, chopped shallots, pepper and salt, and let the Sauce simmer at the side of the fire till cooked. For warming cold leg of mutton, this Sauce will be found excellent. (4) Put into a small saucepan 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped shallots, 1 teaspoonful each of minced tarragon and parsley, 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 2 table- spoonfuls of broth ; season with pepper and salt, and boil the Sauce for a few minutes. It is then ready for serving. Portuguese Sauce (a la Portugaise).—This Sauce should be made a minute or two before ready to serve it, for if allowed to cool it will be spoiled. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with the yolks of two eggs, a little lemon- juice, and a pinch of coarse pepper, and stir over the fire till hot, but do not let them boil. Remove the Sauce from the fire, and continue stirring it till thick. It is then ready for serving. Poulette Sauce.—Put loz. of flour and a little more than 4oz. of butter into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire for three or four minutes; then pour in gradually 1 pint of broth, and continue stirring for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Thicken the Sauce with a liaison of yolks of eggs and a small lump of butter, strain it through a fine hair sieve, season it to taste, and serve. Prince’s Sauce Salad.—Put some leaves of tarragon, mint, and chervil in some boiling water, with six blades of chives and half a bunch of cress; in three or four minutes’ time, pour the water off, and squeeze the herbs dry in a cloth. Skin and bone three anchovies; put their fillets into a mortar with the herbs, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of dry mustard, and 1 teaspoonful of French capers, and pound them to a smooth paste. Mix in gra- dually with the above 1 teacupful of salad-oil, 1 wine- glassful of tarragon vinegar, £ wineglassful of walnut ketchup, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs. Pass the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in an ice- box till ready to serve. Princess Sauce.—Put eighteen chicken quenelles, two truffles cut into slices, and one blanched chicken liver cut into dice into a saucepan on the fire with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and let it reduce for three minutes; then add 1 table-spoonful of meat glaze, let it come to the boil, and add 1 pint of good German Sauce. Toss well together, but do not allow to boil, and serve very hot. Provenpale Sauce (a la Provenpale).—Put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls each of finely-chopped mushrooms and shallots, two cloves of garlic cut into halves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 4 teacupful of salad-oil; season with salt and pepper, and stir all over the fire for a few minutes ; then pour in gradually in equal quantities some broth and white wine. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for lialf-an-hour. Remove the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve the Sauce. Prussian Sauce -Add to § pint of hot bechamel Sauce 1 teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 1 scant teaspoonful of red pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish, and 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Let it boil for four minutes, meanwhile stirring it well, and use when needed. Queen’s Sauce.—Put 1 pint of rich gravy into a saucepan with some breadcrumbs, and let them simmer till quite thick. Chop the meat from the breast of a cold fowl, and pound it with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and a few sweet almonds. Add the pounded mixture to the Sauce, season with salt and pepper, and stir it till hot, without boiling. It is then ready for serving. Ravigote Provenqale Sauce.—Put 1 teacupful of stock into a saucepan, with a bunch of sweet herbs and two cloves of garlic, dust in a little white pepper, and boil till somewhat reduced ; then take out the bunch of herbs and garlic, pour in 1 teacupful of meat glaze, and 1 tea- Sauces—continued. cupful of tarragon vinegar, and boil them for a few minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix with it a small quantity of chopped chervil and tarragon-leaves and a lump of butter, and serve. Ravigote Sauce.—(1) Put 4 pint of stock into a saucepan with a little white wine. Finely chop some herbs, such as chervil, tarragon, chives, and parsley, or whatever are in season, making about 3 table-spoonfuls in all, and mix them with the stock ; season with a little salt and pepper, and stew them gently for twenty minutes or so. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of butter, then stir them into the Sauce, and continue stirring them by the side of the fire till thick. Squeeze a little lemon- juice in with the Sauce, and serve it. (2) Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of veloute Sauce, 1 pint of white poivrade Sauce, and 4 pint of chicken broth, and boil till reduced; then thicken it with 14oz. of ravigote butter, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (3) Put 1 break fast-cupful of white Sauce into a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of milk, and boil it for a few minutes; then stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of ravigote butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is melted, but do not allow it to boil. This Sauce should be served as soon as made. (4) Finely chop in moderate quantities some cress, pim- pernel, chervil, celery, chives, scallions, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and two boned anchovies; put all into a mortar, and pound them until smooth; then beat in the yolk of an egg, 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce when ready. (5) Wash some parsley, and blanch it with some tarragon, chives, chervil, and shallot; squeeze out all the moisture, chop them finely, put them in a mortar with two boned and skinned anchovies and some butter, and pound them. Pass the mixture through a sieve, and serve. Red Piquant Sauce (Spanish).—Soften two or three red capsicums by steeping them for less that one minute in boiling water, dry them, put them into a mortar with a little garlic, and pound to a paste. Add a little water, then turn it into a saucepan containing 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling oil, and season with salt and .vinegar. Fish should be cooked in this Sauce, and served with it poured over them. Reform Sauce.—Prepare 4 pint of poivrade Sauce, and when boiling mix with it 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, 1 wineglassful of red wine (port is the best), and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Leave the Sauce to simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then strain it, and use it when required. Regency Sauce (a la Regence).—Put into a saucepan 41b. of raw lean bam cut into pieces, two shallots, two onions, and |lb. of butter, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning them; then pour in 1 pint of essence of chicken, and 4 pint of Spanish Sauce. Boil the Sauce till of a thick creamy consistency, then strain it through a broth-napkin, and serve when ready. Remoulade Sauce.—(1) Mix together in a basin 2 table- spoonfuls each of chopped chibbals, anchovies that have been preserved in oil, and capers, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix the above ingredients with salad-oil and a few drops of malt vinegar; 1 pinch of scraped garlic may be added if liked. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (2) Put an equal quantity of chopped mushrooms and chibbals, or small onions, into a stewpan with a little chopped parsley, 1 pinch of scraped garlic, and a little salad-oil, and fry them till browned ; then pour in some broth and 2 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar. \\ hen hot, stir in the Sauce 1 teaspoonful of unmixed mustard. This Sauce should not boil. (3) Chop up very fine twelve capers, one shallot, and three small vinegar pickles, and add 4 table-spoonful of chives, and 1 table-spoonful of parsley. Place them in a bowl with a whole raw egg, 1 teaspoonful of ground