252 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. into a paste. Put 6oz. of butter and 4oz. of beef marrow into a basin in a saucepan, and melt them together. Take this off the fire, and when the fat has lost some of its heat, pour it gently into the sugar mixture and work to a froth. Sift in 8oz. of flour and add the well-whisked whites of seven eggs. When all these are thoroughly incorporated, add Jib. of candied cedrat- and lemon-peel cut into small pieces, and the same amount of well-washed and dried currants, sprinkled over slightly with flour to prevent their sinking to the bottom; add lastly a little each of finely-chopped lemon- and orange-peel. Butter and Hour a Pudding-cloth, put the mixture in the centre, tie it up securely, plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. Take it out when done, turn it out of the cloth on to a dish, pour over a little chocolate sauce (see Fig. 314) or sabayon, and serve. Half the quantity of ingredients will make a fair-sized Pudding. Alderman’s Pudding.—Pour 1 pint of cream into a very clean saucepan with the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, a small piece of mace, and sugar to taste. Boil all to- gether for a few minutes, then take out the piece of lemon-peel, pound it in a mortar, return it to the cream, and pass all through a fine hair sieve. Let the cream stand until thin, mix it gently with the beaten yolks of six eggs, and pour it into a mould with a lid ; stand it in a saucepan with a little boiling water, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the Hre for three-quarters- of-an-hour. When ready, turn it out of the mould on to a fancy dish, let it stand until cold, then mask it with currant or apple jelly, and serve. Alexandra Iced Pudding.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs and sufficient sugar to taste, and stir them into a custard. Turn this custard into a basin, and when it is cold mix in 4oz. of ratafia cakes broken in pieces and rubbed through a sieve, and flavour with 2 or 3 drops of extract of bitter almonds. Pack the basin in ice, and freeze until the mixture is reduced below freezing-point. Put a layer of this iced mixture at the bottom of a mould, and on top of it arrange a few strawberries preserved whole from which the syrup has been drained, and which have been dipped one at a time into lemon-juice. Continue to put in these layers until all the ingredients are used up, then return the mould to the ice, let it remain for two hours, turn the Pudding out on to a dish, and serve. Alexandra Pudding.—(1) Put 3oz. of breadcrumbs into a basin, and mix in tin equal quantity of sugar, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and lastly 1 gill of milk. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, mask the bottom with strawberry or apricot jam, pour in the Pudding mixture, set the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Take it out when done, and serve. (2) Beat the yolks of ten eggs in a basin, and add slowly 1 teacupful of cream, 2 teacupfuls of milk, and 2oz. of caster sugar. Put the whites of live eggs into another basin, whisk them gently, and add 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla to flavour. Stir this into the yolk mixture, pour it through a sieve into a mould that will exactly hold 3 breakfast-cupfuls, and that has been well buttered and covered at the bottom with three rounds of paper also buttered, cover the top of the mould with a thick piece of buttered paper, put it into a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam gently for an-hour- and -a-quarter. When done, pack the Pudding in ice, and let it remain until quite firm and set. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, decorate with a little red-currant jelly, and serve. All-Threes Pudding.—Mix together 3oz. each of chopped and stoned raisins, peeled, chopped, and cored apples, finely- chopped suet, and sifted breadcrumbs, and three beaten eggs, leaving out the white of one. Boil the Pudding in a cloth for three hours. Alma Pudding. -Mince 4oz. of beef-suet, put it into a basin, warm it, and mix with it an equal quantity each of breadcrumbs and caster sugar, and 3oz. each of finely- chopped candied citron-, orange-, and lemon-peel; mix Puddings—continued. these thoroughly, and add the grated rind of half a lemon, Jib. of apricot marmalade, the yolks of four eggs and the white of one, and a small quantity of salt. Line the inside of a well-huttered dome-shaped mould with paper also well buttered, pour the mixture in it, put it in a saucepan with water to half its height, place the pan in the oven, and cook for about five hours. Turn it out on to a dish when done, pour round a little Madeira or sweet sauce, and serve. Amber Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. each of butter and sugar into a saucepan over the fire and let them warm for five minutes, then turn them out into a basin over the yolks of eight well-beaten eggs. Have ready a pie-dish lined with puff paste, cover it at the bottom with orange mar- malade, pour over the mixture, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for about thirty minutes. Take it out and it is ready for use. It may be eaten either hot or cold as desired. (2) Peel, core, and cut into slices six large sound apples; put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, 3oz. of sugar, and the juice and thin rind of a lemon ; set the saucepan on the fire, and cook until the apples are done and quite tender. Turn the mass on to a fine sieve placed over a basin, rub it through, and mix in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish lined with rich puff paste, and bake it gently in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Take it out, spread over it the whites of three eggs whipped to a still' froth, and dredge over a little caster sugar; replace the Pudding in the oven for a few minutes for the white froth to set, but without let- ting it take colour, then take it out, and it is ready for use. (3) Peel and core half-a-dozen large apples, cut them up in slices, and put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of butter, and the thin rind of a lemon; set the pan on the fire and cook gently until the apples are done and quite tender. Put an edging of puff paste round a pie-dish, decorating it in ornamental designs, beat in the yolks of three eggs to the apple mixture, pour it into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a still froth, spread it over the top of the Pudding, sprinkle over more caster sugar, and place a few preserved cherries on the top and half cherries round. Put the Pud- fling in a cool oven to set, let it remain for ten minutes or so, by which time it should be of a light golden colour, then take it out, and serve. See Fig. 315. American Black Pudding.—Put lqt. of small berries, such as blue or elderberries, into a saucepan with 1 break- fastcupful of sugar and 1 pint of water, and cook until the berries are done. Cut a small loaf into thin slices, butter them well, put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour over a little of the berry mixture, and fill up the dish in this way. Put the dish in the cellar, and when the Pudding is perfectly cold serve it with cream and sugar. Amhurst Pudding.—Well butter a Pudding-dish, and line it with thin slices of bread-and-butter. Peel and slice some sour baking apples, fill the dish with them, sprinkle with brown sugar and a little powdered clove and cinna- mon, and cover the apples with slices of bread-and-butter. ^Turn a plate or dish over the Pudding so as to cover it