297 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. minutes, take it out. and serve. A baked pie-crust or eroustade may be substituted for the souffle-dish. (See Fig. 34S.) Rabbit Soup.—(1) Clean the Rabbit, and cut it into con- venient-sized pieces. Put some slices of lean bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, with two large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and half a blade of mace; put in the pieces of Rabbit, cover them with cold water, and leave it on the fire until boiling; then move it to the side, and let it simmer gently for one-hour-and-a-half. Put into another sauce- pan a sufficient quantity of white stock that has been freed from fat to make the soup, and place it over the lire until boiling. When the Rabbit is tender, strain its cooking-liquor into the soup; pick the meat oil the bones, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, put the pounded meat in the soup with the crumb of a penny roll, and boil it gently at the side of the lire for half-an-hour longer. Next strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream in it, and make it hot again, but do not boil it. Season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter. (2) Clean two Rabbits, cut them into joints, and steep them for an hour or two in cold water; drain, dry them on a cloth, put them in a stewpan with a few sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them till half done. Wash and cut a head of celery into small lengths, put it in with the Rabbit, with lib. of split peas, and pour in 3qts. of cold water. When boiling, skim the soup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the lire for four or five hours. When ready, strain the soup through a hair sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a golden brown in butter. (3) Skin and clean four Rabbits, put the whole into a saucepan with 61b. of shin of beef, and add two turnips, one head of celery, four or five onions, and two or three carrots. Sprinkle over about 1 teaspoonful of pepper, pour over about 7qts. of water, add a little salt and cayenne if desired, and boil gently for five or six hours. Pass it through a sieve into a basin, and when it is cold skim it, and to every 3 breakfast-cupfuls of soup add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Cut off all the meat from the Rabbits, pound it in a mortar, put it in the saucepan with the soup and cream, make the whole quite hot without boiling, turn it into a tureen, and serve. (4) Skin and clean a large-sized Rabbit, put it into a saucepan on top of lib. of bacon or ham cut into slices, and add half a head of celery cut up small, an onion stuck with two cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and £gall. of water. Put the saucepan on the fire, and cook slowly until the flesh of the Rabbit is quite tender; then take out the Rabbit, and pass the soup through a fine sieve into another saucepan. Cut off a few of the prime pieces of the Rabbit; put the remainder of the meat into a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the soup; boil up once more, then add the pieces of Rabbit-meat, 1 pint or so of cream, and the yolks of two eggs beaten up in 1 table-spoonful of milk. When the soup is quite hot, without being boiled again, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. If boiled after the eggs are added, they will curdle, and the soup will be spoilt. Rabbit Stock.—Take an old Rabbit that is too tough to be cooked in any other way, cut it into small pieces together with ilb. of ham and two calves’ feet, put them in a saucepan, pour on a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover the whole, and place it over the fire. Remove the scum as it rises to the top, and when the water boils put in two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery washed and cut into small pieces, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley tied together, two bay-leaves, half a blade of mace, a few cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Let the stock boil gently at the side of the fire for three or four hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. When Rabbits—co n tin ued. cold the stock should be freed of all fat, and it will be ready for use. Rabbit with Tarragon.—Cut a Rabbit into moderate- sized pieces, splitting the head lengthwise. Separate the stalks and leaves from a good handful of tarragon, cut up the stalks, put them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cup- ful of clear stock, and stew them for an hour. Dust the pieces of Rabbit over with salt and pepper, put them in a stewpan with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them over th ■ fire until lightly browned and tender. Strain the liquor from the tarragon stalks, return it to the saucepan, add the tarragon-leaves, and boil it up again. Drain the pieces of Rabbit from the oil, pile them on a hot dish, pour the tarragon sauce over, and serve. Rabbits Trussed like Poultry.—Cut off the heads of a couple of Rabbits, turn the backs upwards, have the legs stripped to the end, and truss them with skewers in the same way as the legs of a fowl; turn the fore legs, and truss them like the wings of a fowl. If the Rabbits are to be roasted, lard them, and serve with good gravy ; if boiled, do not lard them, and serve with bacon, cabbage, and celery sauce. Rabbits in Venetian Style.—Skin and clean three or four young Rabbits, and chop them up as follows: Cut oil' the head from the neck, and the neck from the body ; cut the legs into halves, and the back into quarters. Put a small quantity of rasped bacon into a saucepan witli a little butter, and add a mixed quart of mushrooms, shallots, and parsley, all finely chopped ; sprinkle them over with ground allspice, salt and pepper to taste, put the saucepan on a slack fire, and stew gently for a little while. When these fine herbs are nearly done, add the pieces of Rabbit, and cook until the meat is quite tender. Take out the joints of Rabbit, tilt the saucepan, and skim oft' the fat. Add 1 table-spoonful of veloute sauce or 1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed smooth in a little broth, boil quickly for a few minutes, then add a liaison of the yolks of four eggs to thicken; add the strained juice of a lemon and a slight sprinkling of cayenne, stir well, and if the sauce is too thick add a little broth. Put in the pieces of Rabbit, warm them up without boiling, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. RagoAt of Rabbit. —(1) Cut a Rabbit into convenient- sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with a bruised clove of garlic and a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and toss them over the fire until lightly browned. Next drain the pieces of Rabbit, put them in a stewpan with about § breakfast-cupful of tomato sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, mix with the ragofit 1 small table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Clean a Rabbit and cut it up into joints, but do not use the head. Put 3oz. or 4oz. of chopped lean bacon in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until beginning to brown; then turn the bacon on to a dish and put the Rabbit in the stewpan in which the bacon was cooked, with a little more butter if necessary, and fry lightly. Dredge it over with flour, cover with water and red wine in equal quantities, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices. Put the stewpan over a gentle fire, and stew the contents for fifteen minutes. Put a quantity of small pickling onions into a frying-pan with loz. of butter anil