TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 355 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sago—continued. Sago Pudding with Fruit.—Soak about loz. of Sago in f pint of water till it is quite a jelly. Put some plums or apples, peeled, quartered, and cored, into a pie-dish with sugar to sweeten. Sweeten the soaked Sago, lay it over the fruit, and bake. Sago Shapes.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago into a stew- pan with 1 pint of milk, a stick of cinnamon, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and boil it, stirring occasionally to prevent its burning. Dissolve l <>'/.. of gelatine in 1 teacup- ful of hot milk, and when the Sago is cooked, mix all together, and boil for ten minutes longer, stirring all the time. Rinse a mould out with cold water, turn the Sago into it, and set it in a cool place. When quite cold and set, turn the Sago out of the mould on to a glass, dish, garnish it with jam or any kind of stewed fruit, and serve. Sago Soft-cake.—Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan until 1 pint of water, and place it over the lire until re- duced to a nice syrup. Blanch and skin 4 table-spoonfuls of almonds, put them in a saucepan with 4lb. of butter, and stir them over the fire until the butter is hot; then mix in gradually lib. of Sago, and continue stirring over the fire until the almonds are browned. Pour quickly over the above ingredients the boiling syrup and an equal quantity of boiling milk, and stir until well mixed ; then put the lid on the saucepan, and leave the contents undisturbed for fifteen minutes. At the end of that time flavour the mixture with a few drops of rose-water, turn it on to a hot dish, shape it like a dome, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Sago Souffle -Put 4 teacupful of Sago into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk and a piece of stick cinnamon, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and boil gently until the Sago is thoroughly done, keeping it .well stirred at the same time; then move it oil' the fire and let it get cold. Beat the yolks of six eggs, mix them in with the Sago, and remove the piece of cinnamon. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above mixture. Turn the whole into a mould, leaving room for it to rise at the top, dust it over with caster sugar, put it into a brisk oven, and bake for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and lightly browned. Serve the souffld immediately it is cooked in the same mould. Sago Soup.—(1) Wash Jib. of Sago, and boil it for one hour in plenty of water, adding a small piece of cinnamon, the rind of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. At the end of that time, mix with the Sago three or four slices of lemon, sufficient red wine to make the required quantity of soup, and sugar to taste. Stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then take out the lemon-peel and cinnamon. Dust some powdered sugar and ground cinnamon in with the soup, and serve it. (2) Wash 6oz. of pearl Sago, and boil it in plenty of water, with a little salt, for ten minutes. Drain the Sago on a sieve, put it back in the saucepan, with nearly 2qts. of broth, and let it simmer gently until it is soft. Thicken the soup with a liaison of three or four yolks of eggs, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (3) Wash the Sago, and soak it in cold water for one night. On the following morning, put the Sago in the required quantity of broth, with some sweet herbs, and whatever vegetables are in season, chopped small, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire until the Sago is soft. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast. Sago-and-Vegetable Pie.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Sago to soak in water over night. Next day, peel and cut into slices a few carrots, turnips, onions, and tomatoes; also cut into small pieces some celery. Put a layer of the Sago into a pie-dish, then a layer of the vegetables, then another of Sago, and so on, until all are used, strewing between eacli layer a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs, salt, and peppe". Moisten with clear stock, and cover the whole with a layer of paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges. Bake the pic in a quick oven. When cooked, take it out, and serve while hot. SAILOR’S SAUCE.—See Sauces. ST. AGNES PUDDING.—See Puddings. ST. AMANDE CAKE.—See Cakes. ST. CLAIR PUDDING.—See Puddings. ST. HONORE CAKE.—See Cakes. ST. MENEHOULD SAUCE.—See Sauces. SAINTONGE.—The sixth class of French brandies. SAKE.—A Japanese beer made of rice. SALADS (Fr. Salades ; Ger. Salate; Ital. Insalate ; Sp. Ensaladas).—The English cook prides himself on the simplicity of his preparations ; the Continental cook revels in compounds; yet, strange to say, the English cook, in most cases, serves a salad as an incongruous mess, whilst the Continental cook serves it in its simplicity. When we take into consideration the virtues of a Salad, or at Fig. 423. Salad-bowl. any rate those that are claimed for it, it is almost a wonder that some English cooks have not made the mixing of Salads a special study. Salads should be essentially English dishes, but, as a matter of fact, one may enter the best restaurant in this country, and, asking for a Salad, will be provided with a plate of wet vegetables, and a flask of creamy mixture called Salad cream or dressing. Kettner observes that in our own system of cookery, which boasts of its naturalness, and which therefore ought to hold the Salad in hi ghest honour, it occupies but an inferior place, and is nearly always spoilt. In respect of salads, therefore, the French ami Italians have beaten us in our own line. Salads should be considered as of two classes, which may be styled—first, simple, and second, compound; the Figs. 424 and 425. Salad-servers. simple Salad consisting entirely of vegetables, either green or coloured, and seasoned with some sort of dressing. Compound Salads consist of a simple Salad, combined more or less with some sort of cold fish or cold meat. Fruit is sometimes also made the subject of a Salad. But, as the name in such a case, that is applied to fruit, scarcely realises what we prefer to understand as a Salad proper, although they are described under the heading of the special fruit from which the Salad takes its name, they may be