TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 402 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. Governor’s Sauce.—Cut h peck of green tomatoes into slices, lay them in a deep dish, strew over them 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of salt, and leave them until the following morning. Next drain the tomatoes free from their liquor, lay them in a saucepan with three or four chillies, either green or red, three finely-chopped onions, 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish, 2oz. of brown sugar, Joz. each of cloves and allspice, and 4 teaspoonful each of white and cayenne pepper. Pour in a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover them, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire. When the tomatoes are soft, turn them with the vinegar and other ingredients into small stone or earthenware jars, and leave them till cold; then close the jars well, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and pack them away for use. Harvey Sauce.—Prepare 12 fluid ounces of Sauce, made with mushroom and walnut ketchup, garlic, soy, and sprats, using in proportion igall. each of the ketchup to | pint of soy, 4oz. of garlic, and Ulb. of sprats, and boiling these together for fifteen minutes and straining. Put this into a saucepan with a little more soy and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne, and stir over the fire until warm. Hot Sauce.—(1) Scald ripe sound tomatoes, peel them, and weigh them ; to 5lb. add lib. of onions peeled and sliced, 5oz. of fresh red peppers, weighed after the seeds are taken out and then chopped fine, jib. of brown sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 pint of vinegar. Put all these ingredients over the fire in a porcelain-lined pan, and boil them slowly, stirring them frequently to prevent burning, and after the Sauce begins to boil it must be stirred almost incessantly. In about half-an-hour it will be quite thick, and it should be boiled until it is about the consistency of apple Sauce. When the Sauce has boiled enough, remove the pan from the fire, let the Sauce cool in it, then bottle it, and cork the bottles tight. (2) Mix together foz. of cayenne pepper, 2 table-spoon- fuls of soy, four anchovies, three cloves of garlic, and one shallot. Pound the above articles, and rub them through a fine hair sieve, then mix with them lqt. of vinegar. Strain the Sauce, pour it into a bottle, and cork it tightly down. In a fortnight’s time, the Sauce will be fit for use. Kitchener’s Sauce.—Put into a large jar 3oz. of salt, 2oz. of black pepper, loz. each of allspice, scraped horseradish, and chopped shallots, 1 wineglassful of burnt sugar colour- ing, and lqt. of mushroom ketchup. Let these macerate for three or four weeks, and then strain off into small bottles. Pink Sauce.—Put lqt. of good vinegar into a pan or wide- mouthed jar, add 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine, 2 table- spoonfuls of anchovy liquor, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, {,oz. of cayenne, Joz. of cochineal, and six cloves of garlic. Let it stand for two days, stirring twice or three times a day; then strain it through a flannel jelly - bag into small bottles, and it is ready for use. Premier Sauce.—Mix together in a large wide-mouthed jar or bottle, 1 pint each of mushroom ketchup, and either port wine or claret, and | pint of the liquor of walnut pickle; add Jib. of pounded anchovies, loz. each of scraped horseradish, peeled and sliced shallots, and freshly-pared lemon-peel, Joz. each of ground black pepper and ground allspice, 1 drachm of bruised celery-seed, and either 1 drachm of cayenne or 3 drachms of curry powder. Cork it well, and let it stand for a fortnight, shaking it each day; then strain it, and put it into small bottles, corking them well. After the Sauce is strained, 1 gill of soy may be added if desired; but it is not necessary, as the Sauce is very good without it. Prince Alfred’s Sauce.—Bruise 2oz. of shallots, put them into a saucepan with loz. of chillies, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, 1 table-spoonful of colouring, 14 pints of vinegar, and 4 pint each of water, walnut ketchup, and Indian soy, and boil tor fifteen minutes. Turn it into a jar till cooled, then strain it through a silk sieve. When quite settled, pour the Sauce into a bottle, and keep it corked down till required for serving. Sauces—continued. Quin’s Sauce.—Put into a large enamelled stewpan 1 pint each of walnut pickle and port uine, the walnuts being previously broken up; to this add lqt. of mushroom ketchup, two dozen each of finely-minced anchovies and shallots, 4 pint of soy, and 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Put the lid on the pan, set it over a slow fire, allow the contents to come to the boil, and then simmer slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Pour all this into a large jar, cork down tight, and leave it to macerate for a fortnight or more. It may then be strained into bottles for use. Heading Sauce.—Bruise loz. of shallots, and put them into a stone or earthenware jar with 1J pints of M'alnut pickle. Cover the jar, stand it in the oven, and leave it until the liquor has reduced to 1 pint. Put in another jar one chopped anchovy, Joz. of bruised ginger, loz. of mustard- seeds, and ;}oz. each of bruised peppercorns and cayenne pepper. Pour in 1 pint of water, stand the jar on the hob near the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an- hour. At the end of that time mix the u-alnut pickle and shallots with the contents of the other jar, stirring them well; then let all simmer for nearly half-an-hour longer. Cover the jar closely, and keep it in a cold temperature for two days; then put in a bay-leaf and a J pint of Indian soy. Leave the Sauce a week longer in the cold, keeping the jar Mrell covered, then strain it through a thick flannel bag. Pour it into small bottles, cork them down tightly, and pack them in the store cupboard. Regent Sauce.—Mix in a large jar six shallots, four cloves, 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 teacupful of soy, 1 teacupful of mushroom ketchup, a small quantity of an- chovy essence, and lqt. of vinegar. Shake the jar once every day for ten or twelve days, then strain the Sauce, and keep it tightly corked in bottles till ready to use it. Rose Sauce.—Remove the outer skin from a small beet- root, cut it into thin slices, put these into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon, and pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil for half an-hour or so, strain off the liquor into another saucepan, and add 4 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, the strained juice of a lemon, and 111), of loaf sugar. Boil for five minutes longer, let it get cold, pour it into bottles, cork them down securely, and keep them in a dry place until wanted. If securely sealed the Sauce M'ill keep good for several months. Savoury Sauce.—Pound very fine loz. each of salt and pepper, Joz. each of allspice, shallots peeled arid quartered, and scraped horseradish. When well pounded, put all together into a pint bottle of mushroom ketchup or walnut ketchup, cover it air tight, let it stand for a fort- night, and then strain it through muslin. A little of this is a nice addition to gravies for chops or steaks. Universal Sauce.—Put into a steuqian an equal quantity of broth and white wine, add two bay-leaves, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt. When on the point of boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for three hours. Strain the Sauce, mix with it the strained juice of a lemon, and bottle. It is then ready for use. Worcester Sauce.—(1) Dissolve 3oz. of lump sugar in 1 pint of vinegar over the fire, then take it off and mix in 2 table-spoonfuls each of Indian soy and walnut ketchup, 4 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one nutmeg cut into thin pieces, tM'elve cloves, \ table- spoonful of ground ginger, three or four cloves of garlic, and a small piece of lemon-peel. Turn all the ingredients into a u'ide-mouthed bottle, and let it stand for a month, shaking it well every day. Strain off the Sauce into smaller bottles, and keep them tightly corked till required. (2) Put Joz- each of ground shallots, garlic, and cayenne pepper into an earthenware jar, pour in lqt. of white wine vinegar, and let these get well incorporated; then add 1 teacupful of soy, and bottle off for future use. (3) To one bottle of vinegar add 4 table-spoonfuls each _of M'alnut and mushroom ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls