207 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Plums—continued. upwards and arranged in order, and pour over a little syrup flavoured with noyau (see Fig. 263). (2) Put three-dozen-and-a-half mirabelle or other Plums into a sugar-boiler with a little less than ^lb. of loaf sugar, and pour over a breakfast-cupful of water. Cover the boiler, put it on a slow fire, and simmer the contents Fig. 263. Compute of Plums. gently for ten minutes. Take out the Plums, drain them on a sieve, strain the liquor, return it to the boiler, and reduce it to 30deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Put the Plums in a compote-dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Crystallised Plums.—(1) Select a few Plums before they are quite ripe, prick holes in them, and put them into a preserving-pan with sufficient water to cover. Place the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor begins to boil take out the Plums, pour off the water from the pan, put the Plums back into the pan, and cover them with syrup, made by mixing lib. of sugar to every gill of water (see Syrups). Put the pan on the fire and boil the contents gently for from fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming con- stantly ; remove the pan from the fire, and let the Plums remain in the syrup for twelve hours or so. Add a little more sugar, boiled to the crack (see Sugar boiling) to the syrup, pour it with the Plums into large jars, and put them in a cold cellar for a couple of days. Take out the Plums from the syrup, sprinkle them with caster sugar, put them in the hot closet to dry, and they are ready for use. (2) Select some large ripe Plums and weigh out an equal quantity of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Peel the fruit with a silver knife, cut them into halves, and remove the stones; lay the Plums on a dish, strew half the sugar over them, and leave them until the following day. Next make a syrup by boiling the remainder of the sugar up with a small quantity of water, skim it well, add the Plums with their sugar, and boil the whole quickly for twenty minutes, skimming it and stirring at the same time. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, split them in halves lengthwise, and add them to the jam. Boil it for ten minutes longer, then turn it into jars. When cold, cover, and tie them down. Pickled Plums.—(1) The Plums should not be too ripe; prick them all over with a fork, arrange them in layers in a jar with cinnamon, cloves, and orange peel between each layer, cover with vinegar, and let them soak for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, strain the vinegar off the Plums into a saucepan, boil it quickly for ten minutes, leave it till cool, then pour it over the fruit. In twenty-four hours’ time strain the vinegar again, boil it for ten minutes with some sugar, using 6oz. to every quart of liquid, pour it over the fruit, and leave till cold. Cover the jar or jars with stout paper, tie them tightly round with string, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. _ (2) Weigh out 71b. of Plums, 31b. of sugar, loz. of cinnamon, and loz. of cloves. Arrange the Plums in layers in a deep dish, with sugar and spice between the layers. Scald lqt. of vinegar daily and pour it over the Piums once each day for three consecutive days, then put the contents of the jar into a preserving-pan and let it come slowly to the boil. Pack the pickle in glass jars, and when cold it will be ready for use. (3) Take the Plums before they are quite ripe and put them into a saucepan with some vinegar, salt water, Plums—continued. fennel-seed, and dill, as much of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle. When it boils, put in the Plums, let it boil again, then take it off; let it stand till cold, then put the pickle into jars. (4) Select some green Plums that have been gathered before the stone is formed, and put them in a jar with a pickle composed of boiling vinegar, mustard-seed, and salt. Let them remain in this for twelve hours, then drain off the vinegar, boil it up once more, pour it over the Plums again, and when quite cold tie the jars over with bladder and put away till required for use. (5) Remove the peel from some fine large black Plums, put them into a bowl with a good supply of salt sprinkled over them, and expose them to the sun for a day or two. Drain off all the liquor and arrange the Plums in layers in bottles, alternating with layers of fresh chillies, pepper- corns, finely sliced ginger, and cloves of garlic. Add a little more salt if required, pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, cork up the bottles, and expose them to the sun for about twenty days. Let the Plums remain for at least six months, and they will then be ready for use. This pickle is considered one of the best and most delicious of Indian pickles. (6) Put the required quantity of fruit into a damp cloth, toss them in it to remove the dust, put them in a bowl, sprinkle over salt, and place them in the sun for about four days. Drain off the liquor, put the Plums into wide-mouthed bottles, keeping them in layers and alter- nating with sliced ginger, peppercorns, ground mustard- seed, green or fresh red chillies, and cloves of garlic. Add a little more salt, fill up with vinegar, cork up the bottles, and expose them to the sura for twenty days. Let the Plums remain for about four months before the pickle is used. Plum Brandy.—This is prepared by mixing lib. of Plum essence with ill), each of bananas and acetic ether, and stirring in lgall. of syrup of gum arabic and 4galls. of pure spirit. Or it may be made by pounding prunes and their kernels in a mortar, exposing them to fermentation, and distilling before using. It is a favourite liqueur in Germany, where it is called Sligouitz. Plums in Brandy.—Take 81b. of half-ripe Plums, prick them, and put over the fire in cold water. As soon as the water boils and the Plums rise to the surface, take them out with a skimmer and lay them in a pan of cold water. Clarify 21b. of loaf sugar, boil it to the little thread (see Sugar boiling), put the Plums into it, and give them a boil; then remove the pan from the fire, and let them stand all night in the syrup. Next day take the Plums out of the syrup, give it a boil, put the Plums in again, give them a boil, and let them stand all night. Repeat this next day, and the day after drain the Plums, put them into bottles, boil the syrup to candy height (see Sugar-boiling), let it cool, and when quite cold add to it three-fourths of its own quantity of the best brandy, mix it well with the syrup, strain and pour it over the Plums. Cork the bottles well. Plum Cake.—(1) Make a raised paste with 3oz. of butter, lOoz. of flour, 2 table spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, loz. of yeast, and the required quantity of milk. When it has risen to the required degree, turn it out on to a well- floured board or table, roll it out thin into a square shape, put it on a baking-sheet, and place a rim of paste round the edge. Let it stand for twenty minutes, brush the top over with butter, and sprinkle with a few bitter almonds, blanched, finely chopped, and mixed with a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Cut the required number of black Plums in halves, remove their stones, arrange them on the paste with the skin side downwards, putting them so as to overlap each other, dust them with caster sugar, and put the cake in a moderate oven to bake. Take it out in about twenty or twenty-five minutes, when it should be done. Sprinkle over more caster sugar, let the cake get quite cold, cut it up into squares or any desired shapes, put them on a dish, and serve. (2) Blanch and cut into small pieces 2oz. of sweet almonds, and mix them with 1 breakfast-cupful of grated