399 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. and one bay-leaf. Strain it through a napkin into a bowl, moisten with \ pint of veloute Sauce, and finish with twelve leaves of finely-cut tarragon, two drops of spinach green, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Victoria Sauce.—Pound 1 table-spoonful of lobster coral very fine with ioz. of fresh butter, and set it aside. In § pint of German Sauce place \ 'wineglassful of white wine and six chopped mushrooms, let it warm thoroughly without boiling in a saucepan, and then mix in the lobster coral. Stir well, and serve. Villeroy Sauce (Villeroi).—(1) Mix an equal quantity of butter and flour together, and stir it over the fire in a saucepan till highly coloured; then stir in 1 pint of either meat or fish broth, a few mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let the broth simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till somewhat reduced. When ready to serve, thicken the Sauce with the yolks of two or three eggs. (2) Put a lump of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted stir in a little flour and some white stock, add some chopped ham, mushroom trimmings, a bunch of sweet herbs and one onion stuck with three or four cloves. When boiling, move the Sauce to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil. It is then ready to serve. (3) Strain and place in a saucepan with loz. of butter 2 table-spoonfuls of raw mirepoix, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Cook and mix well together for five minutes, moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with \ table-spoonful of salt. Boil for one hour, then strain through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use. Vinaigrette Sauce.—Chop up together very finely one shallot, two branches of parsley, and the same of chervil and chives; when all are small, place them in a sauce- bowl, with 1 table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful ot pepper, and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Stir all well together, then add 4 table-spoonfuls of good oil, mix well again, and serve. West Indian Sauce.—See Mandram. White Sauce.—(1) Put 4oz. of butter into a small saucepan and melt it; then add 1 teacupful of flour that has been dried in the oven, and a chopped shallot, and stir over the fire till well mixed; then pour in slowly sufficient white broth to make a thin Sauce, and let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for an-hour-ainl-a-half, stirring it occasionally to prevent it sticking to the sauce- pan. Beat 1 wineglassful of white wine with a little cream, mix it with the Sauce, and turn it into a jar till ready to serve. (2) Put the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, a sprig of lemon-thyme, and four or five whole white peppers into a teacupfui of cream, and leave them to steep for an hour. Put the cream, &c., into a small saucepan, and let it simmer for a few minutes to draw out the flavour of the lemon-peel; strain the cream into another saucepan, mix with it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and 3 table-spoonfuls of butter that have been worked together, and stir it over the fire till thick. Season the Sauce with pepper and salt, mix £ pint of boiling white stock with it, and add the strained juice of a lemon. Serve as soon as made. (3) Boil lqt. of milk with two finely-chopped onions in it till reduced to 1 h pints. Strain the milk through a fine hair sieve, pressing the onion at the same time to extract all the juice. Return the milk to the saucepan, mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted flour, and stir it over the fire till of the consistency of thick cream. Take the saucepan off the fire, put in it 2 table-spoon- fuls of butter that have been broken into small pieces, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper. "When the butter has dissolved, the Sauce is ready for serving. (4) Put into a saucepan one carrot, one shallot, and a stick of celery, all cut into small pieces; add a bay- leaf, one clove of garlic, and a few peppercorns. Mix 2 Sauces—continued. table-spoonfuls of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, put it in with the above ingredients, and stir them for a few minutes over the fire, but do not brown them; then pour in slowly 1 pint of milk, and boil all for ten minutes. Strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix with it 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the fire till boiling. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (5) Work together 1 dessert-spoonful of flour and a small lump of butter, put it into a saucepan with \ tea- cupful of water, the strained juice of half a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the Sauce over a quick fire, boil it two or three times, then take it off, and serve. (6) Put 'h pint of milk into a small saucepan, mix with it 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour that have been worked together, and J teacupful of cream. Boil the Sauce, then mix with it the whites of two hard- boiled eggs that have been chopped, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, taking care to keep back the pips. Serve the Sauce at once. (7) Put 1 pint of cream and h pint of milk into a double boiler, and stand it over the fire. Mix 4 table- spoonfuls of flour with | pint of milk, and stir it in with the milk and cream when they boil. Stir the Sauce for two minutes, then cover it and cook for eight minutes longer. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupfui of cream, then mix them with the above ingredients, and take them off the fire at once. Add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper, and serve the Sauce. (8) Put 1 pint of nicely-flavoured white stock into a stewpan with a few sliced mushrooms, and toil it until reduced one-third; then move it to the edge of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs and \ pint of cream, and season to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Stir it over the fire again until on the point of boiling, then move it off at once, and it is ready for serving. (9) Finely chop Mb. of beef-suet, put it into a saucepan with an equal quantity of fat bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, two carrots, one onion, five or six peppercorns, the juice and pulp of one lemon, and salt to taste, and stir over a slow fire till the suet has dissolved, but do not brown them. Pour into the saucepan the required quan- tity of boiling water, stir it well, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Thicken the Sauce with flour, and use it for braising. (10) Put 1 pint of the liquor in which fish has been boiled into a saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half; then stir into it 1 dessert-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little water, and stir the Sauce over the fire till the flour is cooked. Beat two eggs in 1 table-spoonful of water, and mix them with the Sauce, moving the saucepan at once to the side of the fire. Stir the Sauce till thick, season it with pepper and salt, and serve it. (11) Wash the necks, gizzards, livers, and feet of some fowls, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of veal or mutton, add a few peppercorns, salt, and lqt. of water, and boil it till the liquor is reduced to 1 pint. Mix 4oz. of butter with 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it in with the above ingredients, and boil them for five or seven minutes longer, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 1 teacupfui of cream, then mix them with the Sauce. Stir it over the fire till cooked, then serve it. (12) Wash and bone an anchovy, and cut it into small pieces. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; then put in the anchovy, two small onions finely chopped, a few minced olives, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in gradually sufficient stock to make the required quantity of Sauce, and stir it over the fire till thickened and boiling. The Sauce is then ready for serving. Yellow Sauce.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a sauce- pan ; when it has melted, stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been mixed with a little milk, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, but not browned at all; then