223 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fork—continued. the cavities made in the leg, draw the skin down, and fasten it with skewers so as to prevent the stuffing fall- ing out. Sprinkle the leg over with a little salt, cayenne, and powdered sage, put it at a little distance from the fire, and let it roast slowly until done, allowing twenty minutes to each pound weight of Pork. Put the leg of Pork on a dish; skim off the fat from the gravy, thicken with a little flour, boil it up, pour it through a strainer over the Pork, and serve. A sauceboatful of apple or cranberry sauce should be served with it, and the dish may be garnished with cooked vegetables cut up in slices. Boiled Belly of Pork.—Cut off the belly part of either fresh or salt Pork, dust it over copiously with powdered sweet Fig. 283. Rolled Belly of Pork. herbs and sage, chopped shallots, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, roll it up as tightly as possible, tie it round with broad tape (see Fig. 283), and either hake or roast it until done. When cold, untie it, and serve. Boiled Neck of Pork.—Bone a neck of Pork and cover it over inside with a layer of forcemeat. Roll up the neck as tightly as possible, securing it with string; put it in front of, hut at a little distance from, a clear fire, and roast it. When it is nearly done, put it closer to the fire so as to brown it; and when quite done, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of apple sauce. Stewed Fillets of Pork.—The fillets should be cut from under the loins; trim off the skin, beat to flatten them, and lard them with fine strips of bacon. Put some slices of bacon and onions in a stewpan, with a bunch of thyme and parsley and a bay-leaf, lay in the fillets, pour in 1 pint of stock, and stand it over the fire till beginning to boil. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some hot ashes on the lid, ami cook the contents slowly. Pour 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of broth, a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar. Boil the sauce till rather thickly reduced. Brain the fillets when cooked, and dress them in a circle on a hot dish, pile some stewed white sourcrout in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Stewed Pork.—Cut up the spare rib or loin of Pork into chops, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and put them into a saucepan with enough water to nearly cover them ; set the pan on a slow fire, and simmer gently for half-an-hour, skimming frequently as the scum rises. To each pound of meat, add to the saucepan 1 teaspoouful of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of pepper, and about loz. of butter, mixing them well with the pieces of Pork. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer again for another quarter-of-an-hour, wdien the meat should be quite tender. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Pork Collops.—Remove the skin and bones from l|lb. of fat Pork and finely mince the meat. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with sufficient water to make a good quantity of gravy, season it with salt, pepper, and any other flavouring liked, and stew them for half-an-hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and two well-beaten eggs with the minced Pork, season it Fork—continued. with salt and pepper, divide the mixture into equal-sized quantities, and shape them like round flat cakes. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stew- pan, put in the collops, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for twenty minutes, turning them to the other side after they have been cooking ten minutes. When the collops are cooked, take them out of the liquor and keep them hot. Work loz. of butter with 1 table- spoonful of flour, then put it into the gravy and stir it over the fire until thick; put in 1 table-spoonful of mixed shallots or capers. Arrange the collops tastefully on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve them. Stewed Stuffed Bibs of Pork.—Joint the bones of a young- loin of Pork. Peel, core, and cut into quarters a suffi- cient quantity of cooking apples, and stuff the Pork with them, trussing it so as to keep them in securely; lay the meat on a baking dish, baste it with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake it in a brisk oven until lightly browned all over. Put the meat into a stew-- pan, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of clear boiling broth over it, put the lid on, and keep it at the side of the fire, where it may stew slowly for a little over two hours. Baste the meat frequently, adding more water as that becomes reduced. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish; skim the fat oil' the cooking liquor, and strain through a fine hair sieve over the meat. Fickled Fork.—The flesh of the pig preserved by pickling is a universal favourite, excepting perhaps among sailors, who. not having been supplied with the very first quality, have ever held up their casks of salt “ junk ” to ridicule. Indeed, some of the specimens that have fallen to the lot of the poorer class of sailors can scarcely be regarded in the light of a joke. The following receipts for Pickling Pork are strongly recommended: (1) As soon as the pig is dressed and cool enough to cut up, pack the side pieces in a cask with plenty of salt, and pour in water until level with the top of the Pork. Put a cover over with a heavy weight on the top to keep the Pork well under the brine, and place it in a cellar. Keep the Pork urell excluded from the air until it is wanted. Alum or finely-crushed rock salt should be used for rubbing and putting the meat down in the cask, and if the Pork is bloody it would be better to salt the meat well with fine salt, and leave it to drain on boards for four days and nights before packing it in the cask. (2) Rub each piece of Pork lightly with salt, let them lie singly on a board for a day and a night, then wipe them quite dry. Pack them closely together in a perfectly clean tub or large jar. Make a pickle of 2galls. of water, 2oz. of saltpetre, 51b. of salt, and lib. of brown sugar. Let it boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, skimming off all scum that rises. Let this pickle get quite cold, and then pour it over the Pork, putting a weight on top sufficiently heavy to keep the meat well under the pickle. This quantity of pickle is enough for 501b. of meat if closely packed. (3) Pour 3galls. of water into a large saucepan, and dissolve in it £oz. of saleratus (see Ammonia) and loz. of saltpetre; then put in 211b. of salt, boil it, and skim it quite clear. Cover the bottom of the pickle-tub with salt, put the pieces or joints to be pickled into it, pour the contents of the saucepan, when cold, over them, ami let them remain for a few days with a weighted piece of wood on the top to prevent them floating. Baked Leg of Fickled Pork (German).—Skin a leg of young Pork, put it on a dish with 1 teacupful of pounded shallots, three bay-leaves, a few juniper-berries and cloves, two cloves of garlic, a sprig of tarragon, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of ground black pepper. Pour over the Pork 1 teacupful each of red wine and vinegar, and leave it in the marinade for five days, turn- ing and rubbing it well with the seasoning every day. At the end of that time, put the Pork in an earthenware baking-dish with 2oz. of butter in small bits, strain the pickle through a fine hair sieve over it, and put it in the