THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 285 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. place the tops on them again, and tie them up separately and tightly in pieces of line muslin. Slice a dozen each of apples and Quinces without peeling them, put them in a preserving-pan with ^lb. of loaf sugar and sufficient cold water to cover, and boil until the water acquires a red hue. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the pan without the apples or Quinces; put in for every quart of juice 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil It until the sugar is dissolved and reduced to a syrup. Put the Quinces in muslin in the syrup, move the pan to the edge of the fire, unless the fire is very slow, and boil them gently until tender. When cooked, which can be ascertained by pressing the Quinces with a wooden spoon, take them out of the syrup, take off the muslin, and lay them on a glass dish (see Pig. 338). Boil the syrup until it will jelly when cold, adding more sugar if not sufficiently thick, then skim it and pour it care- fully over the Quinces. It will be better to allow the liquor to cool a little before pouring it over the Quinces, so that they may be covered with the jelly. This makes an extremely pretty dessert-dish. Quince Trifle.—Pare the Quinces and cut them into quarters; put them in a stewpan with Alb. of sugar for each pound of fruit, a small piece of lemon-peel, and a sufficient quantity of water to prevent their burning at the bottom of the pan. Let them stew gently at the side of the fire until quite tender. When cooked, rub them through a fine wire sieve into a basin, and leave them until cold. Sweeten 1 pint or more, according to the quantity of fruit, of thick cream with caster sugar, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of vanilla. Whisk it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises and put on a sieve to drain. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with a layer of slices of sponge cakes, and moisten them with a few table- spoonfuls of sherry. Spread the Quince pulp over them, and pile the whipped cream on the top. Sprinkle over with coloured nonpareils. Keep it in a cool place until served. Stewed Quinces.—(1) Peel and core twelve ripe Quinces, cut them into quarters, and put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water and fib. of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when the contents boil skim well and cook for fifteen minutes, stirring gently from the bottom with a spatula to avoid mashing the fruit. Remove from the fire and immediately add 1 gill of maraschino; stir lightly again, pour the preparation into a bowl to cool, and serve on a dish. (2) Canadian Style.—Make a sufficient quantity of thin syrup to barely cover the fruit, and keep it boiling at the side of the fire. Peel the Quinces, cut them into quarters, but do not remove the seeds; drop them into the boiling syrup, and let them boil gently until soft. When the Quinces are cooked, they may be served either hot or cold, as liked. Sugared Quinces.—Choose good firm Quinces, rub them over slightly with a damp cloth in order to remove any dust, peel them, cut each one into eight pieces, and take out the cores. Put the Quinces into a preserving-pan on the stove, pour on them enough boiling water to cover, and let them boil gently until they are tender; then drain the water off and let them cool. Weigh the Quinces and allow an equal weight of sugar. The peels and cores should have been tied in a muslin bag and boiled with the Quinces. When the Quinces are quite cold, put them and the sugar into glass or earthenware jars in alternate layers, first sugar then Quinces, and so on, and cover. In covering be sure that the air is completely excluded. Look at them from time to time to see if they show any sign of fermentation, if there is any, put the jars into a pan of warm water and loosen the covers, let the water boil till the Quinces are well scalded, and cover the jars down as carefully as before. Syrup of Quinces.—Take some very ripe Quinces, pare them, anti grate or scrape them into a straining-cloth; squeeze the juice from them and stand it in the sun, or in a very warm place, till a sediment forms at the bottom; then strain it well, and to 1 pint of strained juice add 41b. Quinces—continued. of sugar. Put the juice and sugar together over the fire, and boil them to the degree of heat at which little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugar {see SUGAR- BOILING). Take it from the fire, and let it cool; when almost cold bottle it, and when perfectly cold cork it air- tight. Another kind of Quince not often ripening in this country is the fruit of the familiar Pyrus japonica. It is sometimes impoi-ted from Japan, and may be treated as follows: Wash the fruit, put it in an earthenware or stone jar, and cover with cold water; put the jar, with a plate or cover over it, in a moderately hot oven, and leave it until the fruit is soft, which will take about twenty-four hours or perhaps longer, according to its ripeness. Put a quarter of the quantity of green fruit in another jar, with water to cover, and place that also in the oven, as before, until soft. When ready, mash both lots of fruit to a pulp, measure it, and mix with it double its quantity of coarsely- crashed loaf sugar. Put it in a pan and boil slowly for an hour, keeping the cover on excepting when removed to skim the fruit. When cooked so far, beat the preserve with a wooden spoon until smooth, then turn it into jars. When the preserve is cold and set, cover the jars and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. This preserve makes an excellent relish with roasted meat, or it may be eaten with bread-and-butter. QUINNAT. —The Californian Salmon (Oncorhynchus chouicha), known also as King Salmon, Chinnook Salmon, and Sacramento Salmon, is one of the most important productions of that country. It closely resembles the European Salmon, and can be prepared and cooked in the same way. RABBITS {Fr. Lapins; Ger. Kaninchen; Ital. Coniglii; Sp. Conejos).—The cony, as he is familiarly called, is a great favourite with cooks, having white flesh, and being very tasty and inexpensive. The British Rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) was considered at one time the best in the world; now those that are more frequently met with are imported from Ostend to this country ready dressed and pressed flat for cooking. The wild Rabbit is preferred by connoisseurs, yielding flesh that “ is whiter,” says Grimod de la Reyniere, “ more tender, and more juicy than that of the hare, and when young it is easily digested. Nourished on thyme, wild thyme, and marjoram, barded with bacon and cooked to the proper point, it per- fumes the mouth and inundates the palate with delights.” Tame Rabbits are bred and fattened for the table, but they are apt to taste of the hutch, or of the cabbages on which they are usually fed. In Belgium, Rabbits are bred in immense numbers for the sake of their skins, which are useful for many pm-poses, the bodies being exported to the London markets, where they are sold by fishmongers and cheesemongers, but rarely by poulterers, for some reason best known to themselves. Wild Rabbits are very small in this country, and should be very plentiful, as they produce young two or three times in the year; such pro- lific habits having rendered them a pest in some parts of Australia and New Zealand. When selecting a Rabbit, examine the inside to see if the fat is white, and if it smells quite sweet. A young Rabbit can be distinguished from an old one by compressing the under-jaw, which should in a young animal snap or give way readily. Rabbits may be cooked in a number of ways, as shown by the following receipts. They must first be drawn and skinned, the drawing being effected by opening the belly and removing all the organs through the opening. This is generally done by the poulterer in the case of wild Rab- bits, but Ostend Rabbits are sold already drawn and skinned. Along the edges of the slit in the belly the skin is readily stripped off the body, and then the extremities are pulled through, the feet being chopped off at the first