TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 341 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roasting1—continued. of the fire. It may be observed that the heat of a roasting-fire may be as high as 1145deg. Fahr., meat requir- ing nothing higher than 450deg., and often not higher than 350deg. When roasting a large piece of meat, say of beef weighing 201b. more or less, the great difficulty the cook experiences is to roast this through to the centre without burning the outside. A delicate bird, too, will burn on the outside before it is warmed through. Fig. 400. Apparatus for Roasting Fig. 401. Bottle-jack. Large Bird (S. Armour and Co.). This lias been met successfully by the use of an iron spit piassing through the bird (see Fig. 399), the iron acting as a conductor, and therefore passing a higher degree of heat through the body of the bird than could otherwise be done. Under the heading Heat- Conductors, this lias been fully explained, as also a system of carbonised heat collectors, in the shape of metal balls, &c., in connection with either a spit or Fig. 402. Spit with Central Spikes (Adams and Son). metal skewer; but many good cooks are disposed to depreciate any such assistance. These heat-conductors are nevertheless strictly correct in their conception, and a fowl or any large bird cooked, as shown in Fig. 400, with collectors and sjiit, will prove this by the readiness by which it is cooked through, and without burning the surface. The ordinary roasting- or bottle-jack (see Fig. 401) is that which is generally used in small families, Fig. 403. Cradle-Spit (Adams and Son). and being automatic and the distance from the fire variable and adjustable, renders it equally valuable with the system of spits turned by a smoke-jack in the chimney, requiring a powerful upward draught from the fire to work it. Roasting—continued. The varieties of spits used where a smoke-jack is available are very numerous, consisting of long straight rods, with sharpened points, some fitted with central arms or spikes (see Fig. 402), others with a cage or cradle (see Fig. 403), &c.; but as these are only met with in very ! large kitchens, they require no further description here. It has been suggested that meat could be more readily roasted if surrounded by fire, instead of receiving all the heat from one face only. This was evidently the notion of the early Italian cooks, who contrived a spit of a very primitive character, turned by a hand crank, over a fire consisting of hot ashes. But, as will be understood from the accompanying illustration (see Fig. 404), the process of basting was not understood, or it was ignored. By a knowledge of the science of heat, it was ascer- tained that the rays of heat could be arrested and thrown back again, as it were, by a polished metal surface opposite to it. This led to the invention of screens, as they are called, which have undergone various modifications, and been adapted to various other Fig. 405. Roasting-Screen or Hot Closet. purposes. For instance, one kind of roasting-screen (see Fig. 405) is used also as a hot closet for warming dishes, keeping meats hot, and occasionally for drying cakes, biscuits, or confectionery. A round screen fitted with basting-tray is very effective set round a bottle- jack, or fitted with a patent apparatus which works inside the screen. These are all modern inventions, and are merely a few amongst many. A useful form of basting-tray is shown in Fig. 406. j With regard to the process of roasting, the first step in putting a joint before the fire is to ensure that cut I surfaces shall be sealed, as it were, by a hardening of