364 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Salmon—continued. browned and cooked, put the Salmon on a hot dish, pour some white caper sauce over them, and serve. (2) Cut some slices of Salmon about fin. thick, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Lay each cutlet in a piece of well-buttered writing-paper, fold the edges of the paper upwards, and twist the corners. Put the cutlets in their paper cases on a well-greased gridiron over a clear tire, not too hot, and broil them for about eight minutes. Serve hot with a little bit of butter pounded with anchovy sauce laid on each. (3) Cut some thin slices from the tail-end of a small Salmon, and rub them over with salt. Cover a gridiron with bay-leaves, put the slices of fish on them, and broil over a moderate charcoal fire, turning them when done on one side. Blanch and peel 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar with a peeled clove of garlic, and pound them. Soak a small piece of crumb of bread in water, then squeeze it, and mix with the pounded almonds; pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, season with a small quantity of salt, and pound the whole together. Mix sufficient lemon-juice or vinegar and water with the pounded mixture to make a sauce, stirring it till quite smooth. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve while hot. Cliaudfroid of Salmon.—Take a piece about 4in. thick from the middle of a Salmon, and pass a sharp knife between the skin and the fish until almost but not quite separated; roll a small carrot up in a slice of bacon, and put it in the hollow of the fish to preserve its shape, then bind rashers of bacon round the whole of the fish, tying them with fine twine. Finely chop three rashers of fat bacon and 4oz. of beef-suet, put them in a stewpan with a few sprigs of parsley, a few slices of carrots and onions, the juice of a small lemon, 1 teaspoonful of cloves and peppercorns, and a moderate quantity of salt. Toss these ingredients over the fire for a few minutes without brown- ing them, then pour in as much water as will cover the fish, and boil it gently for an hour. Afterwards strain the liquor and let it cool. Put the Salmon in a stewpan that is not too large but will hold it comfortably, pour the sauce over it, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire. When cooked, leave the fish in the sauce till nearly cold, then drain it, and leave it till quite cold and firm. Wash and bone two anchovies and chop them with a few chives and green gherkins, 1 small table-spoonful of capers, and a small bunch of tarragon and parsley-leaves. Put all these ingredients into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and pound them thoroughly. Add to the mixture 2oz. of butter, | teacupful of salad-oil, which should be poured in slowly, 1 scant table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Rub the mixture through a fine hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and keep it on ice until firm. Cut a thick oval-shaped slice of bread, trimming off all the crust, and fry it in butter till a bright golden brown colour. Spread some of the above mixture over the bread, put it on a dish, lay the fish on it, and cover the top of it with a thin layer of the same mixture, levelling it over with the blade of a knife occasionally dipped in warm water. Cut into various shapes some hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, and ornament the top of the fish with them; strew over it here and there a little lobster spawn. Garnish the dish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. The decorating of this dish can be varied according to fancy. Collared Salmon.—Scale the fish, split it right down, take out the bones, and wash and wipe it well. Mix together sufficient salt, white pepper, Jamaica pepper, and pounded mace to season the fish highly. Rub the seasoning well into each half of the Salmon, both inside and out, then roll each side or piece up tightly, ami bind them firmly with wide tape. Put the fish in as small a pan as will hold it, and cover with a mixture of two-thirds water and one-third vinegar; add two or three bay-leaves, a small quantity of salt, and a little of both sorts of pepper. Cover the pan closely, and let the contents simmer till the fish is done. Drain it, let the liquor boil fast till sufficiently reduced, then strain, and when quite cold pour it over the fish. Serve cold, garnished with fennel. Salmon—continued. Curried Salmon.—(1) Put a sliced Spanish onion in a stewpan with a piece of butter, fry it, then stir in 1 table- spoonful of curry powder and 1 teaspoonful of curry-paste ; stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in gra- dually 1 pint of broth, and add 21b. of Salmon cut in small pieces. Let the curry simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour, skimming it occasionally. Prepare a border of rice, turn it on to a hot dish, put the curry in the centre, and serve. (2) Put a large onion cut in slices in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till lightly browned, then add H breakfast-cupfuls of highly-seasoned broth, 1 table-spoon- ful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper; boil it gently till the onion is cooked. Remove the skin and bone from some cold Salmon, cut it into small pieces, put them in with the sauce, and stir over the fire till hot. Pour the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Cut some slices of Salmon lin. thick, sprinkle a little salt over them, and lay each one separately on a piece of well-buttered writing-paper; fold the edges of the paper upwards and twist the corners. Put the slices of fish in their paper cases on a well-greased gridiron over a clear but not very fierce fire, and broil them slightly, turning them once. Take them from the papers, season them with ioz. of curry powder to each lib. of Salmon, put them in a stewpan, pour over just enough good stock to cover them, and stew gently for half-an-hour. Serve hot with a border of lice boiled in water round them. Darne of Marinaded Salmon.—Tie up two thick slices that have been cut from the middle of a Salmon; put some slices of carrot, turnip, and onions in a stewpan with some small pieces of celery, two bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, and 2oz. of butter. Set the stewpan over a brisk fire, and toss the contents about for ten minutes, then pour in 2 pints of water and 1 pint of vinegar; add a few peppercorns and a small piece of mace. Put in the slices of Salmon, and let them cook gently for one hour. At the end of that time move the stewpan away from the fire and leave the fish in the cooking- liquor till cold. Put the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs into a mortar with four well-washed anchovies, five or six gherkins, ^ teacupful of capers, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Pound the mixture well, and work it to a stiff paste with the beaten yolk of a raw egg, then pour in gradually 1 pint of oil, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Colour the mixture with a little extract of spinach, pass it through a line hair sieve into a basin, and set it on ice till firm. Drain the fish on a cloth, then put a slice at each end of a dish; put the egg mixture in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped gherkins, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, pour round some very white tartar sauce, and serve. Darne of Salmon.—Cut a slice about Gin. thick from the middle of a Salmon, wash it well, and insert a potato in the cavity of the entrails so as to preserve the shape. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover, add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and bring it gradually to the boil. Immediately the flakes of the fish begin to separate take it out, remove the potato, and skin the fish care- fully. Let it drain until cool. Put a lobster into a saucepan of salted water and boil for twenty minutes; take it out, drain, and allow it to cool. Lay the piece of Salmon on a dish over a bed of watercress or lettuce-leaves, entirely cover it with mayonnaise sauce, put the lobster on the fish so that the tail falls into the cavity of the Salmon, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a la Parisienne.—(1) Cut some slices of Salmon into small fillets, and put them in a buttered saute - pan; dust a little salt and pepper over, baste them with clarified butter, and cover with a round of buttered paper; saute them over a clear fire. Fix a croustade on a hot dish, fill it with oysters and picked prawns that have been mixed in Dutch sauce, with the addition of some chopped parsley; arrange the fillets round the croustade,