269 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. of milk and § breakfast-cupful of finely-sifted flour. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the flour is well cooked, when it will separate from the sides of the pan ; then move it from the fire and leave until somewhat cooled. Warm loz. of butter, beat until creamy, then mix it with 2oz. of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the yolks of five eggs. Stir this mixture in with the flour, &c., and work the whole until well incorporated ; then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for two hours, taking care to prevent the water from entering the top of the mould. When cooked, turn the Pudding- out on to a hot dish, and serve immediately with a sauce- boatful of sweet wine sauce. Tipsy Pudding.—Well beat up six eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar, then mix gradually in with them 6oz. of the best white flour that has been finely sifted, and beat well for ten minutes. Melt a lump of butter in a small saucepan and pour it into some dariole moulds, turning them about so that they may be equally coated with it; strew some caster sugar inside them, then shake out all that does not adhere to the butter. Fill the moulds with the above mixture, making them perfectly smooth at the top, and put them into a slow oven. The Puddings will require about twenty-five minutes’ baking. When cooked, turn them out on to a hot dish. Sweeten about J pint of rum until caster sugar, pour it over the Puddings, strew some finely-chopped cocoa-nut over, and serve when cold. Toast Pudding.—Any stale pieces of toast may be used, but the harder they are the better. Soak about Jib. of them in water till quite soft, then drain off as much of the water as possible, and mash the toast up with a fork. Mix fib. of stoned raisins, nearly 1 teacupful of moist sugar, a small quantity of chopped lemon-peel if liked, 1 teacupful of flour, and lqt. of skim milk with the toast. Butter a Pudding-basin, fill it with the mixture, tie a stout floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Traveller’s Pudding.—Cut 2oz. or 3oz. of mixed candied peel into very thin strips, and arrange them, intermixed with a few preserved cherries, at the bottom of some well- buttered cups or small moulds. Put 1 teacupful each of dried flour and crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and mix them up with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, two eggs, and sufficient milk to form a stiffisli paste. Directly it is made, pour it into the moulds or cups, and bake for about fifteen minutes. Turn the Puddings out carefully on to a dish, and serve with a little sweet or white wine sauce poured round them. Vegetable Pudding.—Put fib. each of washed and dried currants, stoned raisins, and finely-shredded beef-suet into a basin, mix in a little moist sugar, grated nutmeg, and salt, and make the mixture into a paste by adding fib. each of grated raw carrots and potatoes, which will con- tain sufficient moisture for the purpose. Place the Pud- ding in a buttered basin, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil gently for about four hours. Turn it out on to a dish, pour over sweet brandy or white wine sauce, and serve at once. Venus Pudding.—Beat the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three with J pint of cream, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until thickened, but not quite boiling; mix with the custard Joz. of gelatine dissolved in 1 teacupful of milk, and leave it until cold. Butter the interior of a mould and ornament it with pre- served ginger cut into small pieces. Mix 1 wineglassful of sherry with the custard, pour it into the mould, and bury it in ice. Before serving, dip the mould into warm water, wipe it, and then turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. , Victoria Pudding.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of water into a saucepan with 6oz. of sugar and 2oz. of sago, and boil gently for forty-five minutes; then add 6oz. of any fresh Puddings—continued. fruit, and continue to boil for one hour longer. Pour it into a mould packed in ice, and when set and firm turn it out on to a dish, pour a little syrup round it, and serve with milk or cream. Vienna Pudding.—Put into a basin 5oz. of the crumb of bread cut up into small cubes, 2oz. of candied-peel cut up small, the grated rind of a lemon, and 3oz. of sultana raisins. Put loz. of crushed loaf sugar into a saucepan on the fire and let it remain until it is of a dark brown colour; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin and whisk them well, pour in the milk and browned sugar, work them, and pour the whole over the bread and peel, &c. Add 1 teacupful of cream and 1 wineglassful of sherry, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, put it in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn it out on a dish, pour over a little wine sauce, and serve. Violet’s Pudding.—Put a couple of eggs into a basin, beat them well, and mix in gradually 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Have ready six small sponge cakes cut into slices, arrange them at the bottom of a dish, pour the milk mixture over them, and let them remain for about fifteen minutes to soak. Put the dish into a sharp oven, bake for about thirty minutes, then take it out, and serve. Wafer Pudding.—(1) P ut the weight of an egg in butter into a basin, warm it and work it to a cream; add slowly an equal weight in flour and J table-spoonful of crushed loaf sugar, and make the whole into a paste by adding 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Put the mixture into flat well-buttered pans or saucers, and decorate with candied peel cut into various shapes. Place the Puddings in a quick oven, bake for twenty minutes, then take them out and let them cool; cut them flatwise in halves, put a layer of jam between, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it well with 2oz. of caster sugar; when creamy, beat in gradually 1 table-spoonful of flour, two eggs, J teacupful of cream, and about § breakfast-cupful of milk. Beat the mixture for ten minutes, then turn it into saucers, a small quantity in each, put them in a brisk oven, and bake until browned. When baked, turn the wafers out of the saucers, pile them on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve, either with or without quarters of lemon or a wine or fruit sauce. Jam may be laid over the wafers, if preferred. Water Pudding.—Mix with 1 breakfast-cupful of water Jib. of sugar, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, Jib. of warmed butter, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the above mixture. Butter a pie-dish, pour the Pudding into it, and bake for one hour in a very slow oven. Serve the Pudding either hot or cold on a folded napkin or in a flat dish. Windbags or German Light Pudding.—Put 5oz. of butter in a lined saucepan with a little more than J pint of water, place over the lire, and when hot, stir in very slowly 6oz. of flour and three whole eggs, sweetening to taste with loaf sugar. Stir the whole together until thick, then drop the paste in small portions on a baking-sheet, and bake in a quick oven. When nicely but lightly browned, place them on a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper that has been spread over a hot dish, sift caster sugar over them, and serve at once. Wrexham Pudding.—Mix well together in a basin six well- beaten eggs, 5oz. of moist sugar, 2oz. of sago, Jib. eacli of shredded beef-suet and sifted breadcrumbs, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, and 7oz. of orange marmalade. Put into a buttered mould or basin a few stoned raisins, shredded and scalded, and arranged around the bottom of the mould, put in the mixture, tie it over with a cloth, fastening securely, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil gently for an hour. Turn the Pudding out on to a dish, pour over a little warm orange marmalade sauce, and serve.