THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 227 Potatoes—continued. Potatoes scraped are a popular cooling application to burns and scalds. From Potatoes a coarse-tasting brandy is pre- pared in large quanti- ties on the Continent. The stem and leaves have slightly nar- cotic properties, on which account the extract from them has been employed as a narcotic to allay pain in cough and rheumatism, &c. Po- tatoes, when decay- ing, have been stated to emit a phospho- rescent light, but this requires confirma- tion. The celeb rated Sweet Potato (see Fig. 285) of America is the tuber of a climbing plant, to which the name “ Potato ” was first applied. It is not known in this coun- try, although it was introduced by Sir Francis Drake and Sir John Hawkins, and a good crop was grown at F ormby, in Lancashire. It forms a prime vege- table of the Southern and Central States of America. Another name for it is the Spanish Potato. Boussingault gives the following as the average com- position of the tubers of the Potato: Moist. Dry. Water 75-9 — Albumen 2-3 9-6 Oily matter 0-2 0-8 Fibre 0-4 1-7 Starch 20-2 83-8 Salts 10 41 100-0 100 0 In culinary matters the Potato is chiefly known as “ New ” or “ Old”; but Nicholson, in his “Dictionary of Gardening,” describes the following varieties : Kidney-shaped.—Ashleaf, Myatt’s Prolific, a well known, prolific sort, which follows the old variety in season. Ashleaf, Old, a very old variety, but still one of the best for early supplies. Ashleaf, Veitch’s Improved Early, of handsome appearance, excellent quality, and fine flavour. Beauty of Hebron, early, very handsome, smooth in texture, and slightly tinged with pink round the eye. Cosmopolitan, an excellent early white variety, of fine form, and of superior quality. Covent Garden Perfection, a second early white variety, of medium size and very handsome shape, remarkably free from disease. Early Dwarf-top, early. Early Rose (see Fig. 286), a first early, American variety. International Kidney, one of the finest kidneys. Lapstone, a well-known and good sort, of fine shape and excellent quality. Magnum Bonum, a late sort, very free from disease. Miss Fowler, a late white variety, seedling from Woodstock Kidney, but much more prolific, and a thorough disease-resister, of moderate size, very even, and of finest quality. Prince Arthur, one of the best, an excellent keeper, white, very floury, and of first-class quality. Welford Park Kidney, large, of first rate quality, Potatoes—continued. very smooth, with clear white skin; one of the finest varieties. Woodstock Kidney, of beautiful shape, with very level eyes and rather rough skin, white and mealy. Worrn- Fig. 286. Early Rose Potato. leighton Seedling, an excellent sort and a good keeper. Yorkshire Hero, a variety of unusual excellence, smooth, handsome, and a long keeper. Bound.—Beauty of Kent, a very handsome, second early variety; flattish-oval, rich rosy pink colour, keeps good till March. Bedfont Prolific, a second early sort, of the finest quality. Blanchard, a fine large variety, of good shape with clear white skin, beautifully streaked with purple. Dalmalioy, a second early variety, of excellent quality. Dunbar Regent, a well-known, good late sort. Early Coldstream, a remarkably early variety, of good shape, and very white and floury. Early Regent, early, and of good flavour. Grampian, skin pinkish white, flaked with rich rosy pink round the eyes. M.P. (see Fig. 287), an excellent white variety, with rather deep eyes. Paterson’s Victoria, large and excellent. Porter’s Excelsior, a capital variety. Radstock Beauty, of fine quality. Reading Hero, of ex- cellent quality, and very free from disease. Reading Russet, second early variety, of good quality. Red Emperor, or Main Crop, skin clear light red. Schoolmaster, Fig. 287. M.P. Potato. a very superior variety, large, round, of regular form, with small eyes, white and floury when cooked. Scotch Champion, a good variety, very free from disease. Vicar of Laleham, purple, round, of first-rate quality. Machines for peeling Potatoes with rapidity and accu- racy have been recently invented; the peel removed is so thin that there is a great saving over the usual hand process of peeling; and it obviates the necessity of handling the vegetable, as the knife follows the shape Q For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. o