315 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ratafia—continued. a dish with rich puff paste, pour the pudding into it, and bake it for forty-live minutes. (6) Boiled.—Stick Ratafias all over the inside of a well- buttered slightly-domed mould, fill it up with sponge cakes cut in slices and another handful of Ratafias, and pour over six eggs beaten up in 1 pint of milk ami sweetened to taste. The mould should be quite full. Tie a wet cloth over it, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. Turn it out carefully, and serve with Ratafia flavoured sweet sauce. See Fig. 3C8. (7) Put ilb. of crushed Ratafias and half-a-dozen small queen or sponge cakes into a basin, and work them well with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of whipped cream ; add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and pour in 1 wineglassful of Ratafia and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Smear the inside of a mould very thickly with butter, stick all over it 3oz. of dried cherries, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over the mould, plunge it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve. (8) Butter an earthenware mould. Pick the stalks from some raisins, stone them, and cover the bottom of the mould with them. Cut one or two slices of thin bread- and-butter, trim them, cut the crusts off, and lay them over the raisins; on the bread-and-butter put a layer of Ratafias, then raisins and more bread-and-butter, then Ratafias again, and so on till the mould is almost full. Whip four yolks of eggs together with l table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, beat in with it by degrees 1 wine- glassful of Ratafia and 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, and then mix with it 1 pint of well-sweetened cream. Pour this mixture over the pudding in the mould, and let it stand for two hours. Lay a piece of buttered white paper on the top, tie a cloth over it, and boil for an-hour- and-a-half. Turn it out on a dish, and serve wine sauce with it. (9) Steamed. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two in 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir over the fire till thickened but not boiling. Butter a pudding-mould, line it with candied cherries and crescent-shaped pieces of candied peel, then three-parts fill it with alternate layers of Ratafias and crumb of French roll, putting a few candied cherries and pieces of candied peel between each layer. Pour the custard carefully on the top, and then add 1 wineglassful of Ratafia. Put a sheet of buttered paper over the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam the pudding for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a dish. It may be served either hot or cold. Care must be taken that the water does not enter the top of the basin. Ratafia Trifle (American).—Put a tin of grated pine apple into a glass dish, sprinkle it well with caster sugar, place Ilb. of Ratafias on the top, and pour over 2 wine- glassfuls of Ratafia to moisten them. Flavour 3 break- fast-cupfuls of double cream with noyau, sweeten with sugar to taste, and whip it well ; as the froth rises, take it off and put it on a sieve to drain, continuing in this way until as much as possible is obtained. Place the froth lightly on top of the Ratafias, garnish round the base with preserved fruits, and serve. RATAFIAS.—Small biscuits (see Fig. 369), so-called because made with almonds, taking their name from the liqueur. They are very useful for garnishes, and are best made as follows. They can then be used in the preparation of some very tasty dishes, as described under Ratafia. (1) Blanch and pound in a mortar ^lb. each of bitter and sweet almonds, adding gradually the whites of seven eggs. When the almonds are finely pounded sift 21b. of caster sugar into the mortar, and work it in thoroughly with the pestle. It is very important that the sugar should be well incorporated with the other ingredients. Wash a bladder very clean, cut a small hole at one end of it, and fasten by binding a glass tube the size of a large quill into it; or use a biscuit-bag. Put into the Ratafias—continued. bladder or bag the Ratafia paste, press it gently through the tube, and let it drop on to an egg wafer-paper, dropping the biscuits so that they do not touch each other. *Bake them on tin baking-sheets in a hot oven. Separate, trim off the egg paper with scissors, and set in the screen to dry. (2) Take lib. of ground sweet to Ilb. of bitter almonds, or equal parts, and 211. of caster sugar, and work up with about eight whites of eggs, a little at a time. The paste must be so soft that it will pass readily through a biscuit- bag. Drop it on to white note-paper in pieces of a size convenient for confectionery. Bake in a moderately hot oven, and when cold pull them off for use. (3) Put lib. of fine sugar into a basin and mix in Coz. of ground almonds and 2oz. of bitter almonds; put these into a mortar, pound them well, adding the whites of four eggs, two at a time, and work the whole into a stiff paste. Put it into a biscuit-forcer or paper funnel, drop it on to sheets of paper, put them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take off the paper when done, and put them away in boxes till wanted. Or they may be made with lib. of ground almonds, 2oz. of rice-flour, the whites of nine eggs, and 21b. of sugar. One or two of the Ratafias should be cooked first, to ascertain if the paste is of sufficient consistency not to run while baking. Ratafia Apple Tart. -Peel and core lib. of cooking apples, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a pie-dish with sugar to taste and the strained juice of a lemon. Mix l teacupful of moist sugar with 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs and 1 teacupful of crushed Ratafias, and cover the apples with them. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake. A few pieces of butter placed over the top is an improvement. Serve the tart either hot or cold with a sweet sauce flavoured with Ratafia. Ratafia Blanc-mange.—Crush ilb. of Ratafias, pour over them lqt. of boiling cream, and mix well; then leave the Ratafias till dissolved, stirring them occasionally. Dissolve loz. of isinglass in 1 teacupful of warm water, and add it to the Ratafias. Stir the mixture well, flavour with Ratafia, and pour it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. The blancmange must lie quite firm and cold before it is turned out of the mould. Ratafia Cheese Cakes. -Put lqt. of milk into a basin, and add sufficient rennet to turn it to a curd; put this into a sieve, drain it, and pound it in a mortar, adding gradually three well-beaten eggs, l|oz. of well-crushed Ratafias, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and ^ wineglassful of Ratafia. Put the mixture into patty-pans lined with puff paste, place in a moderate oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Turn them out of the pans, let them get cold, and serve. RAVENSDALE PUDDING.—See Puddings. RAVIGOTE.—The literal meaning of this French term is a “pick-me-up,” from the verb ravigoter—to cheer or strengthen. It is applied to a mixture of tarragon, chervil, chives, and burnet, minced very finely or used as a faggot. Minced Ravigote is a favourite garnish for salads, and is then served on a saucer by itself, each herb being kept separate, the whole constituting, therefore, four little heaps, so that each may be used at discretion. Ravigote butter is made by kneading up some butter with chopped Ravigote, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice.