THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 240 Potatoes—continued. and keep the soup simmering for four hours. At the end of that time, skim it well, and add 3 pints of fresh milk and 1 table-spoonful of pounded hitter almonds. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Potatoes and onions through as much as possible, return it to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling again. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Potatoes with. Sour Cream.—Peel the required quantity of Potatoes, and cut them into slices about Jin. in thickness. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the Potatoes with a minced onion, season with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire until lightly browned, but taking great care not to break the slices. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, pour it over the Potatoes, and stir over the lire until on the point of boiling. When cooked, turn the Potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. Potato Steak.—Boil some nice mealy Potatoes, and when cooked, mash them smoothly with loz. of butter, a small quantity of milk, and salt to taste. Procure a thick slice of tender steak, trim off all skin and gristle, dust it over with salt and pepper, and strew over it a moderate quantity of chopped sage and onions, the latter having been slightly moistened with boiling tarragon vinegar. Put two or three small pieces of butter over, and spread the Potatoes on the top. Roll the steak up tightly so that it encloses the Potatoes, and tie it round with twine. Lay the roll in a baking-dish, baste it with 1 table-spoonful of port wine and 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy, and bake it. When cooked, put the steak on a hot dish, with a border of Potatoes round it, garnish with watercress, and serve. Potato Straws.—Wash 1 pint of Potatoes, peel them very thin, slice them about Jin. thick, put them into plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until they are tender, which should take about ten minutes. Turn them into a colander with large holes, and let the water drain off until the Potatoes are quite dry. Sprinkle over them 1 tea- spoonful of salt and J saltspoonful of white pepper, hold the colander over one end of a large dish, and press upon the Potatoes with a Potato-masher, moving the colander towards the other end of the dish as the Potatoes are pressed through it, so that they will fall upon the dish in long rows. Continue to move the colander from one end of the dish to the other, until all the Potatoes are Fig. 301. Potato Straws. pressed through it, and laid in uneven rows (see Fig. 301). Wipe the edges of the dish with a clean towel, set it in the oven for two or three minutes to heat the Potatoes, and serve. Potatoes Stuffed with Cheese.—Procure seven or eight medium-sized Potatoes as nearly as possible of one shape, scrub them perfectly clean, and dry them. With a small tin pastry-cutter, cut through Jin. deep on the flattest side of each of the Potatoes, and bake them. When quite cooked, remove the covers marked by the tin cutter, and scoop out the insides of the Potatoes with the handle of a spoon, being very careful not to break the skin. Rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve, mix until it one-third of the quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, season to taste with salt and pepper, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper Potatoes—continued. and grated nutmeg, and bind it with the beaten yolks of two eggs and a small quantity of milk. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in quickly with the mixture. Fill the Potatoes with the preparation, levelling it oft evenly at the top, stand them side by side in a baking dish, the open part upwards, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned at the top. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Potatoes on it, garnish them plentifully with fried parsley, and serve. Potato Stuffing.—(1) Peel raw Potatoes, cut them into slices of a moderate thickness, then cut them into small squares ; rinse in cold water, drain, and put them in a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, a chopped onion, 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep it at the side of the fire, shaking the contents occasionally until they are nearly cooked. Finely chop an equal quantity of pig’s liver, and stir- it into the Potatoes a few minutes before ready to use the mixture. (2) Peel, boil, and mash lqt. of mealy Potatoes, and add to them Jib. of butter and a seasoning of salt, pepper, and any sweet herb except sage. This forcemeat is used for stuffing a turkey. Potato Tarts.—Boil the Potatoes, mash them fine, mix them smoothly with a little cream, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, a small quantity of finely-powdered sugar, a little powdered cinnamon, and a few currants washed and dried. Line some buttered tart-tins with puff paste, pour in the mash, and bake it brown in a quick oven, being careful not to bake it too much. Dredge them with powdered sugar when taken out of the oven, turn them out of the tins, and serve hot. Potato Tea-cakes.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Measure them with a breakfast-cup, and for every 2 breakfast-cupfuls mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, a small quantity of salt, and loz. of butter. Work the mixture until smooth, bind it with beaten egg, divide it into two or three equal portions, and with floured hands mould these into round flat cakes; lay them on a buttered baking- dish, with a little space between each, as they will rise, and bake them in a brisk oven. When the cakes are done, split them open, butter them well, cut them into halves or quarters according to the size, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve quickly. Potato Timbale.—Put into a mortar about 21b. of the inside pulp of roasted or baked Potatoes, add Jib. of butter, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, Jib. of powdered macaroons, and a very little salt, and pound them well together; then add the yolks of six eggs and whites of two, loz. of finely-chopped candied orange-flowers, the whipped whites of two eggs, and 4 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. Line a timbale-mould witli puff paste, fill up with the mixture, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve immediately. Potato Turnovers with Herrings (German).—Peel and boil the required quantity of Potatoes, then drain, and mash them with a piece of butter. Mix the Potatoes to a smooth stiff paste with beaten egg, spread it out on a board about Jin. in thickness, and leave it until cool. Cut the Potatoes into round cakes with a round tin cutter. Bone two red herrings that have been soaked in water for a few horn's to remove the salt, and chop them finely, then mix with them two minced hard-boiled eggs and 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley. Season the mixture to taste with pepper, put a small quantity of it on half of each round of Potato, and fold the others over to make a turnover. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, strew thickly with breadcrumbs, arrange them on a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven till lightly browned. When cooked, arrange the turn- _ overs on a dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disk-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to,