THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 389 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. to it slowly 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of mustard, the juice of a lemon, a little vinegar, 1 pinch of finely-chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Mix these well together and serve quite hot. French Sauce (a la Frangaise).—With the yolks of six eggs and lib. of butter prepare some bearnaise Sauce; season to taste until pepper and salt, and mix it with 1 teacupful of tomato puree. When cooked, dissolve in the Sauce loz. of chicken glaze, and add 1 table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and reduced chilli vinegar. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then serve the Sauce. Fricassee Sauce.—Stir gradually the yolks of three well- beaten eggs into a basin with 4 pint of white Sauce, put them into a jar, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the Sauce thickens. Just before serving, add the strained juice of half a lemon, after removing the jar from the boiling water. Geneva Sauce (a la Genevaise).—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of butter into a saucepan, add 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till brown. Mix with the butter and flour 1 pint of fish broth, and 4 pint of red wine; add two sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the Sauce boil slowly for half-an-hour, then mix with it 1 wineglassful of Madeira, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve or broth-napkin, and serve it. 1 teaspoonful of brandy may be added to the Sauce instead of the Madeira if preferred. (2) Prepare about f pint of fish stock until wine, and strain it through a sieve. Put 5 table-spoonfuls of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire till smooth, then beat in the yolks of four eggs, and when well mixed, add the fish liquor and wine, which should be nearly cold. Stir the Sauce over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer. When ready to serve the Sauce, strain it, and mix with it a piece of butter and the juice of one lemon. (3) Peel and slice three onions, and put them into a stewpan with three shallots, half a clove of garlic, Jib. of flutter, and a dust of pepper. Fry the above ingredients till lightly browned, then put in with them a bunch of sweet herbs and a bottle of Burgundy. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the liquid simmer gently till the onions are tender, then pour in 2qts. of Spanish Sauce and 4 pint of veal broth ; boil the liquor till reduced to a stiff Sauce, stirring at the same time, then strain it through a broth-napkin into another stewpan; stir in over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles that have been cooked in Madeira and 4 table-spoonfuls of anchovy butter. When boiling, serve the Sauce. (4) Put about 1 table-spoonful each of chopped onions and shallots into a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of butter; when the onions are partially browned, put in with them one or two bay-leaves, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, a small piece of mace, two cloves, and 1 breakfast-cupful of port wine; boil them for ten minutes, then pour in lqt. of brown Sauce and a little more that 4 pint of broth. Boil the Sauce quickly till reduced to a thick consistency, season the same with salt, cayenne pepper, and 4 teaspoonful of sugar, and thicken it with 1 table- spoonful of anchovy butter; care must be taken not to let it boil after the butter is added. The Sauce is then ready for serving. (5) Peel a moderate-sized onion, mince it, put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Pour in 4 pint of claret, add a bunch of sweet herbs and a few peppercorns, and boil the Sauce for fifteen minutes. Put in another stewpan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoon- ful of Hour, stir it over the fire until it browns, then strain in the above mixture; also mix in f pint of stock gravy, and keep it boiling slowly for ten minutes. Skin and bone three anchovies, put them in a mortar with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and pound them until smooth. Skim the Sauce, stir in the anchovy butter, and serve. (6) The following is a very good Sauce, by Gouffe, for boiled asparagus, whether served hot or cold :—Pass through Sauce s—con tinned. a sieve the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, put them into a basin, add the yolks of three raw eggs, and 1 good table- spoonful of mustard. Work the preparation with a spoon, introducing into it gradually 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, thus obtaining a kind of light mayonnaise, Finish the Sauce with 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and serve in a sauceboat. (7) Cut Jib. of lean ham into small pieces, and put it in a saucepan with 14 table-spoonfuls of butter; fry it for a few minutes, then add one small carrot, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, and half a blade of mace. Let the above articles stew gently by the side of the fire for an hour, stirring them occasionally; then sift in a little flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, pour in gradually 1 pint of veal stock, and let it simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, mix with it 14 wineglassfuls of white wine and the strained juice of half a lemon, thicken it with a small lump of butter rolled in flour, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then serve it. Genoa Sauce (a la Genoise).—Strain about 2 table-spoon- fuls of cooked mirepoix and moisten with 4 wineglassful of red wine; reduce to half on the hot stove, then add 4 pint of Spanish Sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth, and 1 scant table-spoonful of pepper. Cook for ten minutes, then strain through a sieve; put in 4oz. of good butter and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy Sauce, and serve. German Sauce (a l’Allemande).—(1) Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over a slow fire, with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour to thicken. Stir well so that it shall not brown, then moisten with 1 pint of white broth, beating con- stantly, and cook for ten minutes. Beat three yolks of eggs separately in a bowl, pour- the Sauce over the eggs, a very little at a time, strain through a strainer, and finish with 4<>z. of good butter, and the juice of half a lemon, taking care that it does not boil a second time. (2) Put 1 pint of white Sauce into a saucepan, and when it boils move the saucepan off the fire and stand it in another one containing boiling water; mix with the Sauce 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and butter, and salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with 1 teacupful of cream, mix them with the Sauce, and stir for three minutes. Strain the Sauce, squeeze a little lemon-juice into it, taking care to keep back the pips, then serve. Godard Sauce (d la Godard).—Put about 41b. of pieces of raw ham into a saucepan with a carrot and onion, both sliced, and Jib. of butter; fry them till lightly browned, then pour in 14 pints of dry champagne and simmer for lialf-an-hour. Strain the liquor into a stewpan, and mix until it lqt. of Spanish Sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of essence of mushrooms. Boil the Sauce till of a thick creamy consistency, then strain it through a broth-napkin into a bain-marie pan. It is then ready for use. Gothic Sauce.—Boil five eggs hard, and when cool, peel and separate the yolks from the whites. Put the yolks in a mortar and pound them well, mixing in gradually 3 table spoonfuls of olive oil, a pounded chilli, a small quantity of saffron, and salt and cayenne pepper to taste. When these ingredients are well mixed, stir in sufficient vinegar to bring them to a creamy thickness, strain through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Green Sauce.—(1) Use 1 handful each of all or any of the following green herbs: Tarragon, chervil, or curled parsley, parsley, burnet, and chives or young green onions. After wash- ing them in cold water put them into boiling salted water, and boil for two minutes, then drain, put them into cold water for a moment, again drain, and rub them through a sieve with a masher. Mix them with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs rubbed through a sieve, 1 table- spoonful of vinegar, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. When the Sauce is made, keep it very cold until wanted. (2) Put four or five slices of ham and veal into a sauce- pan with 14 pints of white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities. Boil the above gently over a slow fire till the