284 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Quinces—continued. and boil quickly till they are well softened, then strain the liquor two or three times through a jelly-bag till clear. Boil 41b. of crushed loaf sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar boiling), put in the Quince-juice, and boil it quickly from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the jelly is done (this can be ascertained by dropping a little of it on a plate and putting it in a cold place ; if the jelly sets in a minute or two it is done), remove it from the fire, skim it, turn it into pots, and leave until set. Cut some rounds of paper, dip them in brandy, and put them over the jelly. In a day’s time cover the jars over, and tie down. (3) Peel about 141b. of Quinces, cut each one into quarters, and remove their cores. Put the well beaten white of an egg into a stewpan with 3qts. of water and 31b. of caster sugar, place it over the fire until boil- ing, then skim it well, putin the fruit, and continue boil- ing till it is reduced to a thick pulp. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, put in a piece of alum the size of a pea, and boil it gently for two minutes. Skim the syrup, pass it again through the sieve, return it to the saucepan, colour with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and boil it until thickly reduced. Turn the jelly into jars, leave it until nearly cold, then cover them tightly, and put them by in a cool place until wanted. Quince Liqueur.—(1) Select ripe yellow Quinces, dry them in a cloth, then grate them on a coarse bread-grater with- out peeling them. Strew caster sugar over the Quinces and leave them until the following day. Press the Quinces to extract all the juice, and filter the latter through flannel. Measure the juice, and for every quart mix with it lqt. of the purest proof spirit and lib. of caster sugar. Pour the mixture into a large bottle, and let it stand for a fortnight in a warm place, shaking it once or twice each day. At the end of that time the liqueur may be poured into smaller bottles, corked, and put by for use. (2) Put the grated pulp of twelve Quinces into a bottle or jar, add 31b. of loaf sugar, pour over lqt. of white rum (or plain spirit), cork securely, and let it remain for fully ten days, giving it a vigorous shake every now and then. Strain through flannel into another jar, stir in loz. each of spirit essence of bitter almonds and tincture of cloves, and 2oz. of tincture of coriander-seeds. Let it stand for two days longer, pour it into bottles, and cork. Quince Marmalade.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices 41b. of Quinces; put them in a preserving-pan with 21b. of peeled and sliced apples and 2qts. of water acidulated with lemon-juice. Put the cover on the pan and boil the contents quickly till well softened; then put in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till a thick paste. Remove the pan from the fire, pour the marmalade into jars, and leave it till cold. Put brandied paper in each jar and tie them down. (2) Put the required quantity of Quinces in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil them. When the Quinces are soft, drain and leave them till cold; then peel them, and remove the cores. Press the fruit through a fine wire sieve, rubbing it through with a wooden spoon. For every pound of the fruit put fib. of lump sugar in a preserving-pan with just as much water as it will absorb, and boil until transparent bubbles rise to the top. When ready, put the fruit into the syrup and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover and tie down. Quince Paste.—Boil the Quinces in water till they are soft, then drain, pound, and pass them through a sieve. Weigh the pulp and put in a preserving-pan an equal weight of crushed loaf sugar; boil it to the feather degree (see Sugar boiling), add the mashed Quinces, and stir them over the fire till gently boiling. Pour the paste into shallow tin dishes, and leave it till set. Cut the paste into leaves, rings, &c., put them on a wire tray, and dry in a screen. Pack in boxes between layers of paper. If liked, the paste may be coloured by adding a little liquid carmine with the pulp before it is mixed with the sugar. Quinces—continued. Quince Pie.—Peel three Quinces and six or seven cooking apples, core them, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of water and 1 teacupful of sugar, and boil gently until tender. Turn the Quinces and apples into a pie-dish, cover with a flat of rich puff paste, and bake for thirty minutes in a brisk oven. When the pie is cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, sift caster sugar over the top, and serve plain or with a cold custard. Quince Pudding.—(1) Boil seven large Quinces till very soft; peel, core, and mash them, then add the yolks of four eggs beaten together with 1 pint of cream. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and flavour it with a little powdered ginger and cinnamon. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, put a strip of puff paste round it, pour in the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sift caster sugar over, and serve with a rich custard. (2) Pare and core some ripe Quinces, boil them till quite tender, and rub them through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and to half a pound of this allow jib. of caster sugar, 1 drachm each of powdered ginger and powdered cinnamon; mix the sugar and spice with the Quince puree. Beat well the yolks of four eggs in J pint of cream, and mix this into the spiced and sweetened Quince pulp. Tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for an hour. (3) Boil six Quinces till tender, then peel them; scrape off all the soft part into a basin, and mix with it 1 tea- spoonful of ground ginger, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and 1 breakfast-cupful each of milk and cream. Sweeten the mixture to taste, and stir it well. Butter .a pie-dish, and pour the mixture into it. Sweeten the whites of the three eggs with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and whip them to a stiff froth; then spread them over the top of the pudding, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding while hot. Quince Ratafia.—Put into a jar 4oz. of angelica and lib. of Quinces, both cut into thin slices; add a little (say about two-pennyworth) of oil of juniper, loz. of crushed coriander-seeds, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled soft water, and lgall. each of proof spirit and stock syrup. Cover the jar closely, sealing it, and let it stand for six weeks; at the end of that time, strain, filter, and bottle it. A little colouring of saffron may be added should the ratafia not be bright enough. Quince Salad.—Peel two or three ripe Quinces, and cut them into thin slices; arrange them in a salad-bowl, and sprinkle some finely-chopped sweet herbs over them. Mix together some oil and vinegar, using more of the latter than of the former, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the Quinces, and serve. The Quince is the only top- fruit that can be recommended to be eaten with the above dressing. Quinces Stuffed with Almond Paste.—Select six very large Quinces, peel them, and cut a piece off the blossom- end of each, which should be reserved, as they are after- Fig. 338. Quinces Stuffed with Almond Paste. wards to form covers. Scoop out the cores and a greatei part of the pulp. Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds with eight or ten bitter ones, put them in a mortar, and pound welL adding a little white of egg to keep them from oiling, f ill the hollows of the Quinces with the pounded almonds,