216 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pork—continued. with a wet cloth, and score it into little squares. If the skin has been removed, trim off some of the superfluous fat, using a sharp, thin knife, cut out the chine or back- bone, disjointing it from the ends of the ribs, so that the meat may be carved with ease. Put into the dripping-pan a few slices each of carrot, turnip, and onion, a dozen whole cloves, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and a few leaves of parsley or celery. Lay the Pork on these vege- tables, put the pan in a moderate oven, and brown the meat; when brown, season it with salt, pepper, and pounded sage, and finish cooking it, allowing fifteen minutes to each pound of meat. An hour before the Pork is done, prepare the garnish for it as follows: Peel a dozen small white onions, without breaking the layers apart, put them into a pan with 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a little salt and pepper, set the pan in the oven, and occasionally shake it to move the onions about, and insure their uniform browning. After the onions are prepared, wash four sour apples, quarter them, remove the cores, place them in a pan just large enough to hold them, with 1 table-spoonful of butter distributed over them, and bake until they are tender, but not at all broken, and keep the onions and apples hot to serve with the Pork. When the Pork is done, put it on a hot dish, arrange the apples and onions in little groups around it, and serve with a dish of plain boiled potatoes and brown gravy. To make the gravy, after the Pork is taken from the baking-pan, pour out nearly all the drippings, leaving in the scraps of vege- tables, set the pan over the fire, stir in a heaped-up table- spoonful of flour until it is brown, and then 1 pint of boiling water, adding the water gradually. Season the gravy thus made with salt and pepper, let it boil for a moment, strain it, and it is ready for use. Baked Shoulder of Pork with Potatoes.—Peel, boil, and wash lqt. of potatoes, seasoning them highly with salt, pepper, and pounded sage. Remove all the bone from a shoulder of fresh Pork, cutting from the inside, and leaving the meat as whole as possible; season the inside, stuff the mashed potato into the cavity, and sew up the shoulder so as to restore its original shape. If the skin is left on, scrape it with a dull knife, wipe it with a wet cloth, and then score it in Jin. squares. Put the meat into a very moderate oven so that it may cook slowly anti thoroughly, allowing twenty minutes to the pound, and serve with it boiled beetroots or cabbage dressed with vinegar or a sauce made of sour apples. If a gravy is desired, make it as follows: After the Pork is done, take it up, remove the strings, and keep it hot; pour out of the pan all but 2 table-spoonfuls of the drippings, set the pan over the fire, stir into it 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and let it brown; then stir in enough boiling water to make a gravy of the proper consistency, season with salt and pepper, let it boil for a moment, and then serve it with the meat. The flavour of the gravy can be changed by adding to it 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, or a dessert spoonful of mixed mustard, or 1 teacupful of pickles chopped very fine, or 2 table-spoonfuls of pickled onions very thinly sliced. Baked Tenderloins of Pork.—Wipe the tenderloins of fresh Pork with a damp cloth, lay them in a dripping- pan with sweet potatoes, and brown them quickly in the hot oven; season with salt, pepper, and powdered sage, and bake them for about forty minutes. In cool weather there is no meat more savoury than the tenderloin of fresh Pork. Prime ones are large, thick through the centre, bright red in colour, and closely intersected with lines of white fat. If the Pork is from a perfectly healthy animal, and thoroughly cooked, it is entirely wholesome for any person, except those who have weak digestions. The tenderloins may be split and stuffed before they are baked. Boiled Bladebone of Pork.—This very sweet joint is best cooked as follows: Take a bladebone from a bacon hog, put it into a saucepan of water, set the pan on the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes. Take it out, put it on a dish and sprinkle over with salt and pepper, put a Pork—continued. lump of butter and 1 teaspoonful of made mustard on it, and serve very hot. Boiled Leg of Pork and Pease-pudding.—Put a leg of Pork into a saucepan of water with a few whole carrots, turnips, and parsnips, and also lqt. of split peas that have been well washed and soaked for ten or twelve hours, and tied up in a muslin bag or cloth. Set the pan on the fire, and boil the contents slowly for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Then take out the peas, rub them through a fine sieve, and mix the puree with a small lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper to taste. A ell butter and flour a cloth, tie up the puree of peas in it, return it to the saucepan with the leg. of Pork, and boil for about thirty minutes longer, by which time the Pork, vegetables, ‘and peas should Fig. 276. Boiled Leg of Pork. all be cooked. Take out the Pork, drain it, put it on a dish with a garnish of the vegetables (see Fig. 276), and serve. Turn the pease-pudding out on to a dish’ and serve with the Pork. Braised Loin of Pork with Robert Sauce.—Trim off nearly all the fat from a loin of Pork, leaving it only Jin. in thickness, saw off the chinebone, rub the loin oyer with 4oz. of coarse salt, and put it into a bowl of pickle for two hours, turning it frequently. Take it out, wipe it well, put it into a saucepan with Joz. of butter’ sprinkle it over with a little salt and pepper, and fry on both sides to a light brown. Then add ] breakfast-cupful each of broth and white wine, a faggot, and an onion stuck with two cloves. Place the lid on the pan, set it on a slow fire, and simmer gently for a couple of hours, basting frequently. Put the Pork on a dish, strain and skim the gravy, pour it into a saucepan with 1 pint of Robert sauce, reduce for five minutes, pour it round the Pork, and serve very hot. Broiled Fillets of Pork.—Trim and prepare a dozen under- fillets of Pork as for Fillets of Pork Sautes, dip them in warmed butter, then breadcrumb them all over, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until done. Arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little poivrade sauce in a sauceboat and any vegetables in season. Broiled Pork with Chilli Sauce.—The chilli sauce is to be prepared before cooking the meat and in a consider- able quantity, as it will keep some time. Have cutlets about Jin. thick cut from the leg of fresh Pork, put them between the bars of a double gridiron, and broil brown over a moderate fire, allowing about twenty minutes to cook them. When they are well done, put them on a hot dish, season with salt and pepper, put a little butter over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of chilli sauce. Broiled Pork Chops.—Cut off the required number of chops from a loin of Pork, trim off nearly all the fat, put them in a frying pan, and fry for a few minutes. Then take them out, put them on a gridiron or grill over a clear fire, and broil until they are done. Pour 1 " breakfast-cupful of milk into the frying-pan with the fat from the chops, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and thicken with a small lump of butter rolled in flour. Pour