THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 201 bvr details rcspeetiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, til'-, referred to, see under their special heads. Pistachios—continued. until the gelatine is dissolved, then take it off at once. Serve the cream cold in jelly-glasses. (2) Blanch about Jib. of Pistachio kernels, pound them in a mortar with 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water and about Jib. of caster sugar ; when these are well pounded, rub them through a close hair sieve into a basin, and mix with them 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of dissolved isinglass. Mix well, pour into a mould, set upon ice to set, and serve in the usual way. Pistachio Cream-Ice.—(1) Scald, clean, and pound to a pulp Goz. of Pistachios ; put them into a saucepan together with fib. of crushed loaf sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, a little salt, and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or cream; set the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture is quite thick. Put a fine hair sieve over a basin, pour the mixture into it, and rub it through; then add 1 table- spoonful of orange flower water to flavour, and 2 table- spoonfuls of spinach-green (see Colourings) to colour. The colouring must be worked up with a little cream before being added, or it would not mix in well. Turn all into the freezer, and when frozen it is ready for use. (2) Put 1 pint of sugar into a sugar boiler with the same quantity of water, set the boiler on the fire, and boil for twenty-five minutes. Put 1 pint of Pistachio nuts and 1 teacupful of blanched almonds into a frying-pan, and stir them over the fire until they are a rich brown, turn them into a mortar and pound to a pulp. Put this j pulp into a double boiler, pour over 1 pint of milk, j and boil for twenty minutes. Add the well-beaten yolks of five eggs to the sugar in the sugar boiler, beat them up well, keeping them warm while doing so. Remove the boiler from the fire and mix in gradually the almond and milk mixture and 1 teaspoonful of spinach green to colour, which should be mixed in a little milk or cream and added to the almond mixture, and well beaten before the mixture is added to the boiled sugar. Strain it all through a line sieve into a basin packed in ice, and when it is cold stir in lqt. of cream and freeze. It is then ready for use. Pistachio Croquettes.—Put Jib. of Pistachios in a basin, and mix in an equal quantity of crushed loaf sugar and flour, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two, and lastly 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar for flavouring. When all these ingredients are mixed and made into a firm paste, turn it on to a board and roll it out in the shape of a rolling pin. Put it on a baking sheet, bake in a moderate oven until done, cut it up into slices while hot, colour the edges with pink granite sugar, dry them in the hot closet, and they are ready for use. The Pis- tachios should not be blanched or scalded, but should be in their natural state and quite fresh. Pistachio Prink (Turkish).—Blanch and skin lib. of Pistachios, pick out all the small and bruised ones, and pound them in a mortar; mix with the powdered Pis- tachios 1 breakfast-cupful of rose water and plain water in equal quantities, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir it well until the sugar is dissolved. Put the re- maining Pistachios in a glass bowl, strain the above mixture through a fine hair sieve over them, put in a few small lumps of ice, and serve. Pistachio Marzipan Lozenges.—Put lib. of blanched Pistachios into a mortar and pound them to a very fine paste, moistening them with white of egg. Clarify lib. of loaf sugar, boil it to the ball (see Sugar boiling), take it from the fire, and mix into it the pounded nuts. Mix the Pistachios well with the syrup, put the pan on hot ashes, continue stirring till the paste is sufficiently thick, and pour it on a slab plentifully sprinkled with powdered white sugar. W hen it cools cut it into lozenges. Pistachio Nougat.—Scald and chop fine J pint of Pis- tachio kernels. Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar with 11b. of the best confectioner’s sugar, put it in a saucepan over a moderate fire with just enough water to keep it from burning, flavour with vanilla, and colour it with light-coloured turmeric or a little cochineal. When the sugar is sufficiently cooked, that is, when a little of it is Pistachios—continued. put into cold water is brittle, throw in the chopped Pis- tachio-kernels, stir them well in, and then spread the nougat on oiled paper, lay it between two boards, and when cold enough cut into shapes. Pistachio Paste.—Blanch lib. of Pistachios, drain them, put them in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. When it is well pounded, rub it through a fine sieve on to a plate. Put loz. of gum dragon, that has been soaked and squeezed through a cloth, on a marble slab, work it with the hand closed until it has a white and elastic appearance, mix in the Pistachio pulp and Jib. of finely-sifted icing sugar, and continue to beat them well together, adding gradually more of the sugar until the paste is firm, com- pact, and elastic; it is then ready for use. Pistachio Paste Diavolini.—Take Jib. of Pistachio paste coloured with a little spinach-green, roll out small quan- tities of it to represent Pistachio-kernels, put them in the dry closet to dry, then cover them all over with prepared chocolate. Roll them in rose-pink nonpareils (hundreds and thousands), and when they are quite dry and set they are ready for use. Pistachio Rock Sugar.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water, 1 tea- cupful of filtered orange juice, 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschen- wasser, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Mix and pour them into a sugar-boiler. Set the boiler on the fire, boil to the crack degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), remove the boiler from the fire, and mix in very lightly Jib. of Pistachios. Pour the sugar out on to a deep well-oiled pan and mark out the surface into diamond shapes ; when the sugar is set, break it into the shapes, and it is ready for use. Pistachio Souffles.—()) Blanch 4oz. of Pistachios, cut half of them into strips, and chop the remainder as fine as possible. Whip the whites of three eggs to a still' froth, mix in the strips of Pistachios and Jib, of sugar, put the mix- ture into small paper-cases about fin. in width and height, Fig. 256. Pistachio Souffles. dust them over with sugar, moisten it a little, sprinkle over the chopped Pistachios, and bake in a slack oven until a brown colour is obtained. Turn them out of the cases on to a dish (see Fig. 250), and they are ready to serve, (2) Put lOoz. of Pistachios that have been scalded, skinned, well washed, and wiped dry into a mortar with 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar; pound them well, and add gradually a little of the whites of three eggs until it becomes a smooth pulp. Then mix in the remainder of the sugar, making the quantity of sugar used 1 Jib. in all. Turn it all out on to a slab, working it well with the hands and keeping it rather stiff. Roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, spread over evenly two whites of eggs of royal rose-pink icing (about as much as the whites of two eggs); cut the paste out into various shapes with tin