309 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Raspberries—continued. brandy, and shake it hard or stir it well for five minutes. Bottle it, cork well, and seal the corks; lay the bottles on their sides in dry sawdust. This shrub will keep for years, and be improved by age. Raspberry-and-Currant Syrup.—This is prepared by mixing Raspberry and currant syrup in the proportion of \ pint of the former with 2 pints of the latter, ami bottling. Raspberry-and Currant Tart.—Line a tart-dish with rich sweet-paste, put in Raspberries and currants in equal proportions, sprinkle them over with moist sugar, set the dish in a moderate oven, and when it has been in for a- quarter-of-an-hour, cover with buttered paper and bake until quite done; then take it out, and serve. Raspberry-and-Currant Tartlets.—Butter some patty- pans, line them with a good short paste, fill with uncooked rice, and bake. Make a syrup with crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of water, and when boiled and skimmed move it to the side of the fire and mix with it 1 wineglassful of brandy. Pick the stalks off the Raspberries and currants, and put them in the syrup. When the tart-cases are cooked, empty out the rice, and fill them with the fruit and syrup. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, place the tartlets on it, and serve them, accompanied, if preferred, with cream or custard. Raspberry-and-Currant Water-Ice.—Mash the Raspberries and currants in equal quantities to extract all their juice, which strain through a line hair sieve. For every break- fast-cupful of the fruit juice allow I breakfast-cupful of clarified syrup. Mix the juice and syrup together, put in a freezer, and work it against the sides until frozen. Next press the frozen mixture into a mould, close it, and pack it in pounded ice and salt; leave it there for about two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, and then turn the contents on to a fancy dish. Raspberry Custard.—Rub 1 breakfast-cupful of Raspberries or Raspberry jam through a fine sieve to extract the seeds. Put the pulp into a basin with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk with 4 table-spoonful of cornflour mixed smooth in it, then add a well-beaten egg, turn the preparation into a saucepan, and boil it, stirring constantly to prevent it burning or sticking to the pan. When done, turn it out on a dish, and serve cold. Raspberry Custard Pudding. —Moisten 2 table-,spoonfuls of cornflour in a little cold milk. Boil 1 pint of milk, and while boiling stir in the 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour; then let the boil go off, and add two eggs beaten up with Jib. of sugar: let it thicken to a custard. Spread a large pot of Raspberry jam over the bottom of a flat dish, and pile the custard over it (see Fig. 363). Serve warm with cream and sugar. Raspberry Custard with Wine. —Pour I breakfast-cupful each of Raspberry-juice and red wine into a preserving- pan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and warm the whole over the fire. Add 5oz. of cornflour mixed with a little water, stir it into the liquor until it thickens, taking care not to let it boil. Turn the preparation into a mould, and let it remain for three or four hours. When quite firm turn it out on a dish, and serve. Raspberries—continued. Raspberry Drops.—Put 141b. of sugar into a light copper sugar pan with |oz. of cream of tartar and 6 breakfast- cupfuls of cold water. Set the pan on the fire and stir continually until the water boils; remove it from the fire and stir until all the sugar is dissolved. Put it back on the fire, and before it reaches the crack degree [sec Sugar- BOILING) add a slight colouring of prepared cochineal so as to give it a tint to imitate Raspberry-juice. When boiled to the crack turn it out on to a slab, mix in toz. of tartaric acid and 4 dessert-spoonful or so of essence of Raspberries. Work the paste in the same way as dough, form it into shapes, or pass it through a machine. Let the drops get quite cold, and they may then be packed away for future use. A slight quantity of cream of tartar may be added should the sugar grain too quickly. Raspberry Dumplings. —Make some puff paste and roll it out, not too thin, on a floured table or board; spread a layer of Raspberry jam over the paste, roll the paste as for jam rolled pudding, then cut it oft' into lengths, which shape round, pulling the paste over the edges to keep the jam in. Plunge the dumplings into a saucepan of boiling water and boil for an hour. When cooked, drain the dumplings, put them on a hot dish, dredge with caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet melted butter sauce. Raspberry Fool.—(1) Pick the tops off' 141b. of Raspberries and mash the fruit to a pulp. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, mix it smoothly with h pint of milk, sweeten with caster sugar, and turn it on to a glass dish. Whip 4 pint of thick cream to a stiff' froth and spread it over the Raspberries, garnish them with slices of sponge cake, and serve. (2) Pick the tops off the Raspberries and mash them well with a wooden spoon; sift plenty of crushed loaf sugar over them, and keep them in a cool place for an hour or two. Measure the mashed Raspberries, put them in a basin, and for each pint of them pour in 4 pint of water and the same quantity of white wine. Stir them until quite smooth, then serve with sponge cakes or sippets of fancy bread. Raspberry Fritters. -(1) Pour 4 teacupful of boiling cream into a basin over two grated or pounded Naples biscuits and let them cool. Pour in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, stir them well into the biscuits, then add 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and sufficient juice of Rasp- berries to flavour and give the required pink colour. Take up the batter with a spoon, drop it into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until all are done. Take them out, drain them, stick a few small strips of citron in some and the same of blanched almonds in the others, and serve. (2) Finely grate two arrowroot biscuits or the crumb of a stale French roll, stir them into 1 breakfast-cupful of hot cream, leave it till cold, then add the yolks of three well-beaten eggs, and stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of mashed Raspberries. Take the mixture up in table-spoon- fuls and drop it into boiling lard ; as soon as the fritters are set firm, take them out, stick a blanched and split almond into each, sprinkle them over freely with caster sugar, place them on a dish-paper on a dish, garnish with bunches of white currants, and serve Raspberry cream separately. Raspberries Glacees. —Take Jib. or so of preserved Rasp- berries, drain them, and dry them in the hot closet. Dip them into Raspberry icing, set them to cool, and they are ready for use. Raspberry Icing. —Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 1 pint of water, set the boiler over the fire, and a few minutes before it reaches the breaking-point add sufficient Raspberry-juice to reduce the syrup to 38deg. (see Sugar-boiling). Remove the boiler from the fire, let the icing cool, work it smooth with a spatula, and put it in a basin until wanted for use. A little pre- pared cochineal may be added to colour it by warming half of it and then working it well with the remaining half. Raspberry Jam.—(1) Put an equal weight of picked Rasp- berries and moist sugar into a preserving-pan, stir over the