345 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Roebuck—continued. in a circle on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of meat gravy with a little cayenne and lemon-juice added. Roebuck Cutlets a la Chasseur.—Prepare some cutlets taken from the necks of two Roebucks, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry them. Take some sliced shallots previously fried in butter, and a piece of meat glaze, put them into a stewpan, reduce for five minutes, and add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, and strain the gravy over them. Roebuck Cutlets a la Marechale.—Chop off half-a-dozen cutlets from the necks of one or two Roebucks, dip them into warmed butter then into breadcrumbs, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. When done put them in a circle on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy mixed up with the juice of a lemon and seasoned with cayenne pepper. Roebuck Cutlets a la Perigneux.—Put eight Roebuck cutlets into a saute-pan, dust them over with salt and pepper, add a little oil or butter, and fry until done; drain off the butter or oil, add a few table-spoonfuls of glaze, reduce the liquid, put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, pour over the liquor, and fill the cavity in the centre with game quenelles. Pour over these a little peri- gueux sauce, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Roebuck Cutlets a la Toulouse.—Butter the interior of a border mould, decorate it with truffles cut into fancy- shaped pieces, fill it with game forcemeat, and poach it in a bain-marie. Cut a drum-shaped piece of bread, fry it till lightly browned, then place it in the centre of a dish. Garnish a nicely-carved rice or bread croustade with small ornamented quenelles, leaning them against a small bread support that has been coated with game forcemeat and fixed in the centre. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a truffle and a cock’s comb, and fix it in the centre of the support. Carefully trim about fifteen Roebuck cutlets, and saute them in a mixture of oil and butter. When cooked, drain them, soak up the fat with a cloth, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Turn the forcemeat border on to a dish, and fix the croustade on the -piece of bread in the centre. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on the border of forcemeat. Pour a small quantity of brown sauce that has been boiled with some Madeira wine and trimmings of truffles at the bottom of the dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Roebuck Cutlets with Chestnut Puree.—Take a dozen Roebuck cutlets and beat them well with a cutlet-bat, remove the skin, and lard them with fat bacon all on the same side; sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and put them side by side in a stewpan on the top of some trim- mings of bacon and chopped vegetables. Add sufficient broth to cover them, put the pan on the fire with the lid on, cover the top with hot ashes, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. When quite done, glaze them with a brush. Dish the cutlets in a circle with a puree of chestnuts in the centre, basted with a little melted glaze, and serve with a boatful of Madeira sauce. Roebuck Cutlets Sautes.—Take the necks of two Roebucks and divide them into cutlets; trim them, put them into a saute-pan with a little butter, and fry them until done. Serve either with a croustade filled with rabbit puree and some Spanish or poivrade sauce poured over them and a little served separately in a boat, or with a croustade filled with truffles and some Spanish sauce in a boat. ROLL CAKE.—See Cakes. ROLLA CHEESE.—See Tripe. Fig. 409. Plain Rolling-pin (Mathews and Son). ROLLING-PIN .—An article of supreme value to the pastry-cook. Rolling-pins are usually made of wood, and Rolling-pin—continued. sometimes of glass. There are two kinds of wooden ones, the plain shape (see Rig. 409) and the “pin” fitted with Fig. 410. Revolving Rolling-pin. an axle and two handles (see Fig. 410), but there is little to choose between them; each serves its purpose admir- ably. ROLLS.—See Bread. ROLLY-FOLY.—See Jam. ROMAN CAKE.—See Cakes. ROMAN CREAM.—See Cream. ROMAN PUNCH.—See Punch. ROOKS.—“ If this useful bird,” wrote Waterton, “were | not so closely allied to the carrion crow in colour and in shape, we should see it sent up to the tables of the rich as often as we see the pigeon. But prejudice forbids the appearance of broiled Rook in the lordly mansion. If we wish to partake of it, we must repair to the cottage of the lowly swain, or here and there to the hall of the homely country squire whose kitchen has never been blessed by the presence of a first-rate cook, and whose yearnings for a good and wholesome dish are not stifled by the fear of what a too highly polished world will say.” There is nothing much to add to this, beyond that the Rook (Corvus frugilegus) is a common European bird resembling the crow, but somewhat smaller. Its plumage is black, with purple and violet reflections. Rooks are gregarious, living in flocks and building permanent nests at the tops of high trees, whence young birds are easily secured when wanted for cooking. The following will be found excellent receipts for Rook pie : (1) Draw half-a-dozen fine Rooks and skin them. Soak them in cold water for two hours, then dry them, cut out their backbones, season well with salt and pepper, and pack them closely in a pie-dish; cut Jib. of fresh butter into thin slices, lay them over the Rooks, and moisten with f breakfast-cupful of rich brown gravy. Cover the pie with a flour-and-water paste, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. Take the pie out at the end of that tune, leave it until the next day, then remove the coarse paste, cover it with a good puff paste, and bake for about half-an-hour or three-quarters-of-an-hour. (2) Skin and clean four Rooks; remove the bitter part by putting the birds on their breasts and with a sharp knife cutting out a piece of the flesh from the spine about the size of a finger. This part is good to eat, but is con- sidered too bitter. Put a rump-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the Rooks on it, dust them over with salt and pepper, and add three hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces and 2oz. of butter pulled in lumps. Cover with a layer of rich puff paste, and bake for about two hours or until the pie is done. Take it out, and serve. (3) Skin the Rooks, remove the back and the liver, and let them soak for awhile in milk. Cut them up and season with salt, white pepper, a small quantity of nutmeg and mace, and a very little cayenne, mixed together and finely powdered. Put the pieces of Rook into a pie-dish in alternate layers with slices of ham or gammon of bacon, putting in among them forcemeat balls and slices of hard- boiled eggs, pour in a small quantity of water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. (4) Skin and draw four Rooks, and cut out the back bones; great care must be taken in preparing the birds not to break the gall, as it would render them very bitter; should this happen, however, they should be steeped in