410 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Scallops—continued. ancl butter them; cut the fish into small pieces, put two Scallops into each shell, strew over them some finely- grated breadcrumb, season to taste with salt and pepper, and put in each shell a small quantity of made mustard, about 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and h table-spoonful of cream; place a small lump of butter on the top of each and put them into a brisk oven. When nicely browned on the top arrange the shells on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Stewed Scallops.—(1) Put some Scallops in a stewpan with half a blade of mace, a small quantity of sugar, and sulli- cient water to cover them; stew them gently by the side of the fire for about lialf-an-hour or until tender. Put Uoz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and mix them over the fire, then stir in some of the liquor in which the Scallops were stewed, 3 table-spoon- fuls of cream, and flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Arrange the Scallops on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Blanch 1 pint of Scallops in loz. of butter for ten minutes, then drain and chop them. Chop up two onions and put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter; when brown add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stirring carefully, and moisten with l pint of the Scallop liquor, or white broth. Reduce while stirring, season with a good pinch of salt and b pinch of white pepper, also a very little cayenne pepper; add the chopped Scallops, four yolks of eggs, and a bruised clove of garlic, also \ breakfast-cupful of fresh breadcrumbs, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Stir well for two minutes, put the whole into a dish, and set it aside to cool. Fill six Scallop-shells with the mixture, sprinkle the tops with sifted breadcrumbs, moisten slightly with clarified butter, and lay them on a baking- sheet; brown them nicely in the oven for five minutes, serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley-leaves. SCALLOPED—Any kind of fish or other food may he scalloped, that is, cooked or served up after cooking, as though they were actually scallops (see Fig. 478). For this purpose, as real scallop shells would not be at all times available, the French cook, not caring to forego this delicious mode of cooking, has invented metal shells (see Fig. 479) which answer every purpose, and are usually known as “ coquilles,” the viand being served “ en coquille.” Considerable taste in the designs of these table-shells has been shown, some being exceedingly elaborate and made of silver, hut the block tin shell indicated in the drawing is quite good enough for most purposes. Scalloping is a modification of the “ au gratin.” SCHABZEIGER CHEESE.—See Cheese. SCHENK BEER.—A small beer brewed in Bavaria. SCHNAPPS.—The Dutch name for Holland’s Gin, or Schiedam. SCISSORS (Fr. Ciseaux; Ger. Schere).—The mean- ing of the term is quite evident, but over the derivation there is some doubt; Skeat, however, holds that it is traceable to the Latin csedere, to cut. Their mode of Fig. 480. Scissors. construction and action renders Scissors invaluable instruments in the kitchen, or the service at table. For cutting off the fins of fish and the claws of birds a strong pair of Scissors (see Fig. 480) should be used. For serving poultry a most useful weapon known as carving Scissors (see Fig. 481) is sometimes wisely employed; and for dividing the branches of a hunch of grapes ornamental Scissors (see Fig. 482) are indispensable. The vii’tue of the Scissors depends upon the double cutters working towards each other, and the extraordinary leverage secured by their mode of construction. SCOLLOPS.—See Collops. SCONES.—These famous Scotch cakes are appreciated throughout the British Islands, and probably in other parts of the world. They are usually large round cakes divided by a deep cut into four portions (see Fig. 483) and cooked on a griddle. The following receipts are exceptionally good, being supplied from reliable sources. See also Barley, Cream, Potatoes, &c. (1) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour; when quite smooth add 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar and 1 table- spoonful of baking-powder, and stir in sufficient sour milk