THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 382 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Sardines—continued. bread-and-butter, spread the mixture on them, and fold them over. Cut the sandwiches into finger lengths or quarters, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish tastefully with sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve. (2) If the fish are large, split them in halves, but if small they should be left whole. Put the fish on slices of bread, strew some chopped hard-boiled egg over them, and season with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon-juice; cover with slices of bread, cut them in lengths, and serve. Another way of making these sandwiches is to cut some thin slices of rye-bread, put a thin slice of Swiss cheese on half of them, on that place some fillets of Sardines, and strew them over with finely-minced capers. Spread some German mustard on the remaining slices of bread, lay them over the fish, and press gently together. Cut the sandwiches into halves or lengths, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley, and serve. Sardine Sauce.—(1) Skin and bone three or four Sardines, and finely chop the flesh ; pound the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs until quite smooth, together with the strained juice of a lemon, then mix with them the Sardines, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped capers, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper. Pound all the ingredients together till formed into a smooth paste, then mix thoroughly with it, first 1'teaspoonful of Florence oil, and lastly, by degrees, i, pint of white vinegar. Pass the sauce through a coarse wire sieve, and keep it in tightly-corked bottles until required for use. (2) Remove the skin and bones from four or five Sar- dines, and chop the flesh. Put 2oz. of butter in a sauce- pan with 1 table spoonful of flour, and stir it over the lire until browned, then put in 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and A teaspoonful each of finely-chopped onion and grated lemon-peel: squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add ^ pint of clear broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of mace. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then put in the chopped Sardines. Boil it for three or four minutes, stirring all the time, then take it off the fire. The above sauce will be found a delicious accompaniment to almost any kind of boiled fish. (3) Trim away the bones and skin from three Sardines, put them in a mortar with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, and pound them to a smooth paste. Put 1 table- spoonful each of sugar, oil, salt, and barely 1 table- spoonful of mustard in a basin, and stir them well till quite smooth. Then add three well-beaten eggs, and when well mixed 1 breakfast-cupful of milk. Stand the bowl in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and stir the mixture over the fire till it is of the consistency of soft custard. Stir the Sardine paste into the dressing, and serve with fish. Sardine Toast.—(1) Scrape the skin off some Sardines, split them open lengthwise, and remove the bones. Lay the Sardines on a plate, pour some of their oil over them, cover with another plate, and put them in a moderate oven until hot through. Cut the required quantity of slices about Jin. thick off a stale tin-loaf, toast them a delicate brown on both sides, and butter them. Cut the toast into fingers, and lay a Sardine on each; dust them lightly with salt and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, and squeeze a little lemon-juice over them. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the fingers of toast tastefully on it, garnish with a border of nicely-picked and washed watercress, and serve. The above makes a very tasty breakfast dish, and is soon prepared. (2) Drain the oil from five or six Sardines, and remove their skins and bones; put them in a mortar with 1 table- spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of gravy, and a dust of pepper, and pound them; then make the mixture hot. Remove the crust from some slices of hot buttered toast, spread them with the Sardine paste, put them on a hot dish, and serve. SARSAPARILLA.—The root of the Smilax offici- nalis, used as a medicine only. SASSAFRAS. — An American tree of the laurel family (Sassafras officinale). A decoction of the chips, under the name of Sassafras tea, was occasionally used as a medicinal drink. SAUCES.—This word takes its origin from the salt which it is supposed to contain in sufficiently large pro- portions to make it a valuable seasoning. Brillat Savarin says that the number of flavours is unlimited; yet it would appear from the number of Sauces that are known to the cook, that however numerous flavours may be, Fig. 450. Digester Stockpot. Sauces will be found to represent them. In English cookery the number of Sauces used commonly might be counted on the fingers of the hands, consisting essentially of gravies, and what is termed melted butter. A celebrated chef, Tom Pruday, who followed Soyer at the Reform Club, expressed an opinion that if it were Fig. 451. Dipper. not for the famous Worcestershire Sauce there would not be any British cooks in England. This was a gentle reference to his former preceptor (Soyer), whose list of Sauces was something enormous. It may be observed that whereas British cooks in so many cases rely upon