331 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. into the shape of cutlets, dip them first into egg and then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them brown. Take them out when done, drain them, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Rice Drop Cakes.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold boiled Rice into a saucepan with a little milk, warm it, and stir well until it is soft; then beat in 1 saltspoonful of salt Fig. 385 Rice Drop Cakes. and the yolk and white of one egg whipped separately. Drop the preparation on to a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven, and hake until the cakes are crisp. Take them out, and serve either hot or cold. See Fig. 385. Rice Fandango.—Stew some fresh fruit such as goose- berries, currants, or raspberries, with sugar. Make a custard with two eggs, 1 pint of milk, and sugar and flavouring to taste. Thoroughly wash Jib. of Rice, and boil it in milk until tender—it should he rather dry. Turn the Rice on to the centre of a hot dish, pour the fruit over it and the custard round, and serve. It can either lie served hot or left until cold. Rice Flawn. -Line a dawn circle with puff paste, and fill it up with Rice boiled in vanilla-flavoured cream, thickened with butter and a few table-spoonfuls of well-whipped cream. Carefully remove -the ring, wrap the flawn round with a strip of paper, tying or sewing it with thread, cover over the top with paper, and bake the flawn in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Take it out, remove the paper, and it is ready for use. The paper on top should be removed before serving. Rice Fool (German).—Thoroughly wash 4oz. of Rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cook it in, and let it .simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the Rice is soft (the grains should he whole), shake it well, then turn it into a tureen; sift plenty of crushed loaf sugar over it, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and leave it in a cool place for an hour or two. Mix water and red wine in equal quantities, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and sweeten to taste; then pour it over the Rice, and serve. Rice-and-Fowl Cutlets.—Chop the remains of some cold fowl freed from skin and bone with an equal quantity of cold ham, put them in a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste. Boil 4oz. of Rice in some clear stock ; when tender, drain it as dry as possible, and pound it in the mortar; then put in the ^ fowl mixture again, and pound the whole together. Fry a finely-chopped onion in butter, and when cooked, add it to the mince, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into equal quantities, mould them to the shape of cutlets, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils, put in the cutlets and fry them until delicately browned all over. Drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, put a group of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Rice Fritters.—(1) Put barely 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in sufficient warm water to cover it well, and let it steep for three hours; then put it with the water in which it was steeped in a farina kettle, and let it simmer till the Rice is dry ; next pour 1 pint of milk over it, and simmer till the milk has all soaked into the Rice; then stir in loz. Rice—continued. of butter, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Beat up three eggs and 3oz. of sugar together very lightly, and when the Rice has cooled pretty well, stir them in with grated nutmeg, salt to taste, and 1 table-spoonful of flour. Flour a paste-board well, and make up the mixture with well-floured hands into flat cakes ; put in the middle of each cake two or three raisins that have been “ plumped ” by soaking in boiling water for two or three minutes, roll the edges of the cake over the raisins so as to form a ball, flour the balls well, and fry them in boiling lard. Sprinkle them with powdered cinnamon and sugar, and serve on a napkin folded on a hot dish with sweetened cream. (2) Take 2 breakfast-cupfuls "Of boiled Rice, mix with it while hot loz. of butter, and let it cool ; then mix into it three eggs beaten up very light. Form this paste into balls, and fry them a light brown in plenty of boiling lard. Drain them on hot paper, and serve hot with molasses. (3) Put 6oz. of blanched Rice into a saucepan with sufficient boiled milk to more than cover it, and boil slowly until the Rice is done and not too dry ; sweeten to taste, add a little lemon zest, and a few’ table-spoonfuls of cream, and cook slowly for ten or twelve minutes, or until the Rice is dry. Remove the saucepan from the fire, take out the zest, work in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped candied-peel, the yolks of four eggs, and 3oz. of butter in small pieces. Turn the preparation into a basin and let it cool; then form it into small balls, dip them first in well-beaten egg, then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them to a good colour. Take them out, drain, roll them in finely- powdered loaf sugar, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Rice-and-Fruit Pudding.—(1) Wash a small quantity of Rice, and put it in a pie-dish in the oven with a little water; when the water is dried up, add to the Rice a small quantity of milk, stir it, and put it again in the oven, stirring it from time to time till it is soft, adding more milk if required. A little cream stirred in is an improve- ment. Fili a pie-disli almost full of fruit, sweeten it well, and then lay the Rice unevenly over it in spoonfuls. Put it into the oven, hake till the Rice is brown, and then serve. (2) Put Jib. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan with milk to cover it, and boil it until swollen and dry. Mix Jib. of any kind of fruit with the Rice, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and bind it with three or four well- beaten eggs. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, and tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Rice Griddle Cakes.—Pour over 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold- boiled Rice a sufficient quantity of warm water to cover, CM Fig. 386. Rice Griddle Cakes. and let it soak for some time. Beat an egg well with 1 pint of sour milk, then stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of flour to make a stitt batter, and add a small