THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 238 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c.} referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. Potatoes—continued. a sufficient quantity of salad-oil and one-third the quantity of vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with pepper, adding a small quantity of salt if necessary, and pour it over the Potatoes. Strew some finely-minced truffles over the top, and serve. (3) Put half-a-dozen boned anchovies and the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a mortar and pound them, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of made mustard and a few chopped sprigs of tarragon; add gradually a little salad- oil, lemon-juice, pepper, and salt to taste. Have some slices of cold boiled Potatoes arranged on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and sprinkle over a good supply of finely- minced cooked truffles. (4) Cut half-a-dozen firm cold boiled Potatoes into nice slices, and slice half their quantity of boiled beetroot, half their quantity of plainly-boiled Spanish onions, and a small quantity of pickled cucumber. Arrange the slices of vegetables in pretty order on a salad-dish. Prepare a sufficient quantity of dressing with salad-oil and tarragon vinegar, the former predominating. Season it to taste with salt and pepper, and pour it over the vegetables. Garnish round the dish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, strew a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs over the centre, and serve. A small quantity of English mustard can be mixed with the dressing if liked. (5) Put 1 pint of hot Potato pulp into a basin, and mix in 1 teacupful each of finely-chopped boiled cabbage and celery, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, a small pickled cucumber, and a hard-boiled egg cut up as small as possible. Pour over sufficient salad-dressing to moisten the mixture, and spread it out on a dish placed on ice. When it is quite cold, put about 2 table-spoonfuls each on large fresh lettuce-leaves, arrange them on a dish, and serve in this way. (6) Boil or bake four or five large Potatoes, peel them, cut them up in thin slices, and put them in a salad-bowl with 2 wineglassfuls of red wine, and one or two onions cut in quarters. Stir well until they are all mixed, adding gradually a good supply of salad-oil, one or two thin fillets of smoked herrings, a little vinegar, a few chopped chervil-leaves, and salt and pepper to taste. Remove the quarters of onions, and serve quite cold. (7) Boil a dozen or so medium-sized Potatoes with their skins on, peel them, cut them up into squares or dice, put them in a basin, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper to taste, and pour over a little salad-oil and vinegar, toss- ing the basin frequently to cover the Potatoes all over. In the same way cut two sour apples that have been peeled and cored, a few gherkins, and the fillets of two or three pickled herrings that have been steeped and cleaned. When these are all mixed, add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped cooked onion, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled beetroot, also cut up into small pieces. Turn the salad into a salad-bowl, tossing it frequently to mix them all thoroughly, and serve. (8) Procure small red Potatoes, boil them in their skins until tender hut not broken, then drain them and leave them until cold. Peel the Potatoes and cut them into slices of moderate thickness. Cut the tenderest part of a red cabbage into thin slices. Mix the Potatoes with an equal quantity of the cabbage and the same of cooked beetroot also thinly-sliced. Put the mixture in a salad- bowl, season it with salt and pepper, pour a sufficient quantity of salad-oil over it, and just enough red vine- gar to colour the Potatoes. Serve the salad without delay. (9) German.—Cut into small pieces a sufficient quantity of cold boiled Potatoes, and mix them up in a salad- bowl with a few stoned and chopped olives, three or four boned and chopped anchovies, a few pieces of celery and beetroot, some capers, and a moderate quantity of finely-chopped parsley. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin, and mash them smooth with 1 table- spoonful of salad-oil, and 1 teaspoonful each of caster sugar and made mustard; when quite smooth, stir in gradually a little more than 4 teacupful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Season the dressing to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour it over the contents of the salad-bowl, mix thoroughly, and serve. Potato Sandwiches.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes as smoothly as possible with a little butter, and when quite free from lumps roll the paste out to about Jin. in thick- ness. Cut some cold meat of any kind into thin slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, dust them over with salt and pepper, and fry them over a gentle fire for a few minutes. Lay the pieces of meat on one half of the Potato paste and cover them with the other. Cut the sandwiches into rounds, and press the edges of the paste together, so as to completely envelope the meat. Dip the sandwiches on both sides in beaten egg and roll them in finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, and put it on the fire; when boiling, put in the sandwiches, Fig. 300. Potato Sandwiches. and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper near the fire, then put them on a hot dish with a dish-paper laid over it, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 300), and serve. Potatoes with Sardines.—Peel and partially boil about 21b. of large Potatoes, then drain them, and cut them into slices Jin. thick. Peel and chop two or three onions, put them in a frying-pan with a moderate quantity of finely- chopped parsley and a lump of butter, and cook them over a gentle fire without browning them. Skin and bone a few sardines, chop them, put them in with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Melt a lump of butter in a dish that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven, cover the bottom with half of the Potatoes, spread the mixture over them, and cover with the remainder of the Potatoes. Cover the dish, put it into a quick oven for ten minutes, then remove the cover, and serve. Potato Sauce for Salads.—Rub two mealy Potatoes to a paste with the yolk of a raw egg, and add 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a small quantity of salad-oil. Season the mixture with salt and pepper; if the vinegar is very sharp, let a small piece of loaf sugar be dissolved in it before using. Potatoes Sautes.—(1) Cut up eight medium-yized cold boiled Potatoes. Place ljoz. of butter in a frying-pan, add the Potatoes, season with 4 pinch each of salt and pepper, and toss them well in the pan for two minutes. Give them the shape of an omelet, and let them take a golden colour, which will require five minutes. With a spoon take up all the butter which lies at the bottom of the pan, slide the Potatoes on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Peel and wash the required quantity of Potatoes, cut them into small balls with a vegetable-scoop, put them into a stewpan with a large lump of butter and plenty of salt, put the lid on, and stew them gently for about an hour, or until tender. When cooked, drain the Potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, and serve. Potato Scones.—(1) Season some cold boiled Potatoes with salt, and mash them as smoothly as possible with a fork. When ready, roll them out to about Jin. in thickness, cut them into cakes, lay them on a griddle, prick them with a fork, and toast them over a clear fire. W hen lightly