THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 226 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Porter—continued. of loaf sugar, the juice and thinly-pared rinds of four lemons, \ pint of Porter, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten. Boil the liquor, and as it rises to the top of the saucepan pour in 1 teacupful of cold water. Let it continue boiling slowly for about twenty minutes, then pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy and boil it for five minutes longer. Next move the saucepan to the side of the fire and leave it until the scum has well risen to the top of the jelly. Skim it well, and strain it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Pour it into small moulds, and when cold cover and tie them down. PORTERHOUSE STEAK.—A steak cut from a sirloin of beef, including the upper and under part. See Beef. PORTLAND PUDDING.—See Puddings. PORTUGAISE, A LA.—In Portuguese style. PORTUGAL PUDDING —See Puddings. POSSETS.—This word is derived from the Welsh Posel, which signifies a beverage composed of milk, curdled by boiling with wine or cider. The following are favourite receipts for its manufacture: (1) Boil together in a clean saucepan \ pint of new milk, 1 wineglassful of sherry or marsala, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle or molasses. This is known as treacle Posset, and is ready to serve as soon as the milk coagulates. (2) Sometimes lemon-juice, strong old ale, cider, or vinegar is substituted for the wine; powdered ginger or nutmeg being added at discretion. (3) Bake three or four nice-sized cooking apples. When well done, take them out of the oven and mash them, removing the skin and cores. Cut some slices of white bread about Jin. in thickness, and trim off all the crusts. Put the bread in a saucepan with 1 pint of fresh milk, and boil it till soft; then remove it from the fire, sweeten to taste with moist sugar, and flavour with about ,1 tea- spoonful of powdered ginger. Pour the milk and bread into a bowl, gradually stir in the pulped apples, and serve it. (4) Grate up coarsely the crumb of a penny roll and boil it in an enamelled saucepan, adding the grated peel of a bitter orange; when this is clear, add 3oz. of sweet and loz. of pounded bitter almonds, half the juice of an orange, 1 large table-spoonful of moist sugar, and 1 pint of good wine. POT-AU-FEU—This is the standing dish of the French household; from it the cook makes his soups and sauces. According to the mode of preparing it given by most of the French cooks, it answers to our beef-broth. According to Gouffe it is the soul of domestic cookery, and constitutes the most nutritious part of the daily food. In this country it is made in an ordinary sauce- pan, but in France it is usual to make it in an earthenware pot. The following receipts for prepar- ing Pot-au-Feu are supplied by very famous cooks: Thoroughly wash twice in cold water either 61b. of brisket or 81b. of shin of beef. Put it in tlie stockpot and entirely cover with cold water, put it on the fire, and be very careful, as soon as it comes to the boil, to thoroughly skim off all the scum. Add two medium- sized, sound, well-cleaned carrots, one turnip, one good- sized, well-peeled onion with six cloves stuck in it, and two leeks tied together. Season with 2 pinches of salt and eighteen whole peppers; let it boil for four hours. Strain either through a napkin or a sieve into a bowl. Cut the carrots, turnips, and leeks, into round pieces Jin. thick; add all these to the broth, and serve with six quarters of toasted rolls. Half a pound of liver - added with the vegetables improves the colour of the gravy. Pot-au-Feu—con tinned. French Pot-au-Feu.—Trimmings off any kind of joints can be used in the construction of this dish. Melt a lump of butter, in a large saucepan, then put in the pieces of meat, which should have been well washed, with some beef- or mutton-bones, and if possible an old fowl or rabbit. Put the lid on the saucepan, and shake the contents over a slow fire for a few minutes; next move it to the side, pour in boiling water, judging the quantity by that of the meat, and keep it simmering gently at the edge of the fire for three or four hours. At the end of that time put in some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, &c., that have all been nicely prepared, season well, and let the whole continue stewing gently until the vege- tables are tender. A bunch of sweet herbs, tied in a muslin bag, should be put in with the vegetables. When ready, take the vegetables carefully out of the soup and put them in a soup-tureen, strain the liquor through a fine sieve over them, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Pot-au-Feu Soup.—Wash about 5lb. or 61b. of rump of beef in plenty of water, remove the bone, roll it, and tie it with string. Put the meat into a stockpot with a small knuckle of veal and a few poultry giblets; add a small lump of salt. Cover the meat with 6qts. of cold water and place it over a moderate fire. Remove the scum off the liquid as it rises to the surface, and when it commences to boil pour in a small quantity of cold water. Move the stockpot to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently for five hours, keeping them only partially covered with the lid of the stockpot. Two hours after the liquid has boiled put into the pot a few carrots, one large turnip, a parsnip, a root of celery, an onion that has been browned in the oven, and half a blanched colewort. When nearly done put in the soup a few cloves, a bay- leaf, and a bunch of chervil. When cooked, skim and strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a soup-tureen, put in some of the vegetables and some sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve it. FOTAGE.—A French term applied generally to soups. POTASH.—A mineral salt figuring largely among the constituents of certain foods. POTASS, NITRATE OF —See Saltpetre. POTATOES (Fr. Pommes de Terre; Ger. Kartoffeln; Ital. Patate; Sp. Patatas).—There is no other vegetable in this world that is so universally esteemed as the Potato, the tuber of a plant belonging to the order Solanacepe, introduced into this country towards the latter part of the sixteenth century by Thomas Herriott, who accompanied Sir Walter Raleigh on several of his voyages. It is said that the Potato originated in Chili and Peru; be that as it may, it is quite certain that the numerous varieties now grown in this country entitle the British Islands to the credit of having very highly cultivated the tuber and brought it to a state of perfection as a vegetable. The Potato (Solanum tuberosum) is exceedingly nutri- tious, and when forming part of a mixed diet is very whole- some. Lindley tells us that in addition to their use as a vegetable, Potatoes furnish a large quantity of starch, employed for various purposes in the arts. It forms the basis of certain farinaceous foods, as Bright’s Nutritious Farina, &c., and is mixed with wheaten flour in the manu- facture of bread. This adulteration can readily be detected by the microscope, especially on the addition of a solution of potash, which causes the starch granules of the Potato to swell up, while no effect is produced on the starch grains of wheat. From Potato-starch is also pro- cured a substance analogous to gum, called dextrine, which is employed as a substitute for gum, size, and paste. The pulp of the Potato, after extracting the starch, becomes so hard and homy when dried, that at one time snuff-boxes were said to be made from it. Raw