273 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pumpkins—continued. (4) Cut twelve long Pumpkins into slices, season them, and fry in butter. Put twelve slices of bread freed of the crust in a deep dish, and moisten them with toppings of broth; sift grated Parmesan cheese over, then put the Pumpkin on in layers, alternating each layer with Parmesan; place some slices of bread on the top, moisten with toppings, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Bake for a quarter-of-an-liour, basting occasionally with toppings. Serve the Pumpkins thus prepared with a soup- tureen full of pot-au-feu broth. (5) Take three or four full-grown but not hard-skinned Pumpkins, slice them, and put them into a stewpan with two or three peeled onions and a good-sized piece of butter; set the pan over a moderate fire until the Pumpkins are quite tender, being very careful that they do not burn. When done, add 2oz. of crust of bread, ‘2qts. of good consomme, and a seasoning of salt and cayenne; boil for ten or fifteen minutes, skim off the fat, and strain the soup through a sieve. Serve very hot with fried bread. Pumpkin with Tomatoes.—Peel a large piece of Pumpkin and remove all the pips; partially boil it, then drain and wipe it on a cloth, cutting it into small squares. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it; next turn in the pieces of Pumpkin, season with salt and pepper, and toss them for a few minutes over the fire. Moisten the Pumpkin to height with tomato sauce, and stew it gently until quite cooked. Turn the Pumpkin on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Pumpkin.—Peel and remove the seeds from a Pumpkin, and partially boil it; drain it well, wipe it on a cloth, and cut it into small pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then put in the pieces of Pumpkin; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until quite soft. Butter a dish that will stand the heat of the oven, and that can be served at table; turn the Pumpkin mixture on to it, strew over plenty of grated Parmesan cheese and a few grated breadcrumbs, and put the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes or until browned over the top. Serve the Pumpkin while hot in the same dish. PUNCH (Fr. Ponclie; Ger. Punsch).—In “Fryers’ Travels,” dated 1672, we are told that Punch is an enerva- ting liquor, drunk on the Coromandel Coast, and deriving its name from the Hindustani Panch, signifying five, the number of ingredients required—sugai-, water, spirit, acid, and spice. In 1680 appeared, from the pen of Captain Radcliff, a doggerel poem, entitled “ Bachanalia Coelistia,” which had immense popularity. In this effusion is represented the minor deities on Mount Olympus, hearing, for the first time, of the beverage just in- vented on earth, and determining to try it, accordingly all united to compound a jovial bowl. With regard to the lemons used the poet says: Juno for lemons sent into her closet, Which, when she was sick, she infused into posset: For goddesses may be as qualmish as gipsies— The sun and the moon we find have eclipses. These lemons were called the Hesperian fruit, When vigilant dragon was sent to look to't; Three dozen of these were squeezed into water, The rest of th’ ingredients in order came after. Apollo found the water, Venus the sugar, Bacchus the wine, Mars the brandy, Saturn the nutmegs, and Neptune the biscuits—and they all sang “Jolly good health to Char’les II.” The five ingredients—spirit, water, sugar, lemon, and spice—were in time reduced to four. Whene’er a bowl of punch we make, Four striking opposites we take : The strong, the weak, the sour, the sweet, Together mixed, most kindly meet; And when they happily unite, The bowl is pregnant with delight. Punch—continued. From the following receipts it will be understood that Punch, as it is now known, admits of many variations: Adam-and-Eve Punch.—Cut four golden pippins into very thin slices, put them into a bowl, sprinkle sugar over the layers, pour over 1 wineglassful of brandy, then add 1 pint of iced sweet cider. Stir them all well together, then pass through a fine strainer into the punch bowl. Pour in 1 bottle of iced chablis, and serve immediately. Put a dozen or more of the slices of pippins at the bottom of the bowl. Army Punch.—Put Iqt. of brandy into a Jgall. jar with the thin rinds of six lemons; cork the jar securely, keep it in a warm place for three days, and give it a shake now and then. Put lgall. of rum into a large bottle, strain in the lemon-flavoured brandy, mix well, and add gradually 2qts. of plain syrup. Now add lqt. of boiling milk, strain the whole through a flannel or jelly bag, and bottle off. It may be used in three days’ time, but if kept for six months in a cool place it will improve. Baronet’s Punch.—Infuse sufficient green tea in boiling water to make 1 pint, then strain it into a jug; mix with it 1 pint of lemon jelly and 3 or 4 teaspoonfuls of honey, stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it at the edge of the tire. Empty two bottles of P brand old Dublin whisky into a china or silver punch- bowl, mix with | pint of curapoa, stir in the hot tea and jelly, and lastly pour in 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Serve the punch at once. Beaufort Punch.—Mix together 2 bottles of high sau- terne, 1 wineglassful of curapoa, ^ pint of pineapple syrup, the strained juice of four oranges, iqt. of German seltzer water, and the following infusion : a bunch each of borage and balm, half a thinly-sliced hothouse cucumber, and six leaves of verbena; steep them in J, pint of thin cold syrup for two hours. Strain it into the above in- gredients, and turn all into the freezing-pot and freeze for about lialf-an-hour. Bourbon Punch.—Mix in a large jar pint of tincture of Seville oranges, 1 fluid ounce each of tincture of all- spice, cloves, and coriander, and I fluid ounce of tincture of nutmeg. Pour over these ingredients Hgalls. of whisky, and mix them well with the brush-agitator, afterwards pour in slowly 2galls. of syrup and mix again. Let the Punch stand in the jar for three days, when it may be drawn off into bottles. Cork, and keep them in a cool cellar for use. British Punch.—(1) Mix together 1 pint each of old mm and brandy, and i pint of thick syrup made with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water. Empty a small pot of pineapple jam into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until dissolved. Burn the spirit mixture for eight minutes, then add the jam to it with 1 liqueur-glassful of curaqoa and a bottle of champagne. Serve the Punch in a Punch-bowl. (2) Pack a freezing-pot in ice, and put in it 2 bottles of clicquot champagne, \ pint each of strawberry syrup and pineapple syrup, the strained juice of three lemons, the rind of one rubbed on sugar, the juice of three oranges also strained, and lqt. of German seltzer water. Work it over the ice till frozen, then serve. Cardinal Punch.—Put an orange on a plate in the oven and bake until light brown. Make a boiling syrup with 1 breakfast-cupful each of sugar and water, with twelve cloves in it; drop the baked orange into it, add 2 break- fast-cupfuls of port or other red wine, and let it remain until cold. Cut the orange, press out the juice, and strain it and the Punch into a freezer, add 1 breakfast-cupful of wine jelly, and freeze. If in season, add red strawberry - or raspberry-juice to heighten the colour. Cider Punch.—Rub off the rind of half a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, put it in a bowl, and sprinkle over two or three thin slices of cucumber and the remaining half lemon cut into slices; squeeze over the juice of the other half lemon, pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, then 2 bottles of cider. Sprinkle over the top a little ground spice (any desired), and serve with ice. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.