316 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. iices, the., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ravigote—continued. Ravigote sauce is English “ melted butter,” or butter sauce with which chopped Ravigote has been mixed. RAVIOLES.—Probably derived from the French ravir—to delight exceedingly, literally to ravish. The following receipts are essentially French. Others will be found under special headings, such as Game, &c. Baked Ravioles.—Take Jib. of veal, 4oz. of calf’s liver, 3oz. of sausage-meat, 4oz. of either beef-marrow or calf’s kidney fat, and a little mixed herbs; mince all up very fine, season with salt and pepper, and pound in a mortar; add a handful of spinach which has been blanched, boiled, drained, and warmed in butter, the same quantity of curd cheese which has been squeezed in a cloth so as to extract all the milk, and pound again; then stir in the yolks of two eggs, and whisk up the whites and add them to it. Make some short-paste as for rissoles and cut it into small squares; wet the edges, fold them over a little of the forcemeat placed in the centre, and poach in boiling- stock for five minutes; then drain, place on a dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, moisten with stock, brown in the oven, and serve very hot. See Fig. 370. Ravioles d la Genoese (for Soups).—Divide lib. of nouille paste into halves, and roll them both out very thin, having them of an equal size and as nearly square as possible. Put any kind of forcemeat into a paper funnel, and squeeze it out in small lumps, in rows, over one of the halves, keeping the lumps about tin. apart; cover with the remaining half of the paste, pressing it down between the forcemeat, and then cut out the Ravioles with a small round tin cutter, say about 1 Ain. in diameter. Place them as they are done upon a well-floured cloth, using only half of it, and covering over with the other half. When all the Ravioles are cut, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three minutes ; then remove the pan from the fire, cover, and let it stand for four minutes longer. Put the Ravioles on a sieve to drain, place them in a saute-pan, pour over lOoz. of melted butter, and dredge over a few table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Warm them for a minute, remove the pan from the fire, and toss it; then take out the Ravioles with a skimmer, put them on a dish, sprinkle over a little more grated Parmesan cheese, and pour over a few table-spoonfuls of hot glaze mixed with an equal quantity of tomato sauce. A tureenful of rich soup should always accompany these. Ravioles d la Grecque.—Cut off lib. of the tender part of a braised loin of mutton, and chop it small, together with a cooked sheep’s brain; pound them both to a mass, season them, and mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs and the yolks of three eggs. Put 20oz. of nouille paste on to a board, roll it out rather thin and into a square shape, brush it over with a little water, and at intervals over half of the paste put some small lumps of the brain mixture. The lumps should be put about Jin. apart and as nearly in a row as possible. Turn the remaining half of the paste over, pressing it down between the lumps of meat mixture; cut them into shape with a round tin-cutter, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three or four minutes. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, grate Parmesan cheese over them, pour over a little rich gravy flavoured with tomato sauce, and serve. Ravioles aux Tomatoes.—Prepare a sufficient quantity of firm paste with eggs, flour, and a small quantity of milk- Ravioles—continued. and-water, roll it out very thinly on a floured table, and cut it into rounds with a tin cutter about 2Jin. in diameter. Thoroughly wasli some freshly-picked spinach in plenty of water, and boil it; when tender, drain it well, pass it through a fine hair sieve, mix with it an equal quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in as much rich milk or cream as they will absorb, ‘2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a small quantity of this mixture in the centre of each round of paste, fold them over, and pinch up the edges all round, first moistening them with a paste-brush dipped in water. Have ready over the fire a stewpan of boiling salted water, put in the ravioles, and boil them gently for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the ravioles, place them on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce over, and strew them thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Serve very hot. RAYFISH.—See Skate. RECHAUFFE.—Fr. for “ warmed again.” The name is applied to various hot dishes made up of cold cooked meat and other things. RECTIFIED SPIRITS.—See Alcohol. RED CURRANTS.—See Currants. RED DEER.—See Yenison. RED HERRINGS.—-See Herrings. RED MULLET.—-See Mullet. RED PEPPER.—See Capsicums. REDUCING.—One of the most valuable processes to sauce-makers is that which the cook terms reduc- ing, applying it to the reduction of bulk or quantity, and the increase of quality. The sauce to be reduced should be strained quite clear and then put into a broad shallow stewpan, placed over a quick fire, and made to boil at a gallop. By leaving off the lid the water of the sauce evaporates with extraordinary celerity. It should be remembered that as water only evaporates, the remaining bulk would necessarily contain a greater proportion of material in solution. This is sometimes overlooked by inexperienced cooks, who season the original quantity with salt and other things, forgetting that when reduced to half its bulk there will be double the proportion of seasoning. REED-BIRDS. — These American singing-birds (Dolichonyx oryzivorus) are considered great delicacies when cooked according to the following receipts : Broiled Reed-birds. -Dress the Reed-birds without split ting them, put an oyster in eacli one, season them with salt and pepper, broil them quickly over a hot fire for about five minutes, and serve at once. Fried Reed-birds.—Pluck and dress the birds, splitting them down the back; season rather highly with salt and pepper, roll them in flour, corn-meal, or sifted bread- or cracker-crumbs, and fry them brown in butter and lard equally mixed, made smoking hot before the birds are put into it. Or dress, split, and season them, and fry without breading or flouring them. They must be served hot as soon as they are brown. Potted Reed-birds (Refreshed).—Take the butter off the top of the potted birds, throw them one by one into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave them for half-a-minute; then take them out, and dry them thoroughly both inside and out. When all the birds are thus treated, leave them until quite cold; then season with salt, pepper, and powdered mace, pack them closely in jars, and pour clarified butter on the top. When potted birds are sent a long way, the odour is often so bad as to be unendurable, from the rankness of the butter. If prepared as described above they will be as though freshly potted.