TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 291 Rabbits—continued. Galantine of Rabbit.—Skin and clean two or three Rabbits, bone them, leaving the head still remaining in its place, and cut oil’ a little of the meat from the insides of each. Chop this meat very small, and mix it up with an equal quantity of finely-minced bacon; add a little powdered herbs and minced truffles, and salt and pepper to taste. Lay the Rabbits on a napkin, open, and with the skin, side downwards, put a thin coating of the forcemeat on them, on that again put a layer of ham, bacon, and truffles cut into thin slices, then more forcemeat and slices of ham, &e., until they are filled; then roll up into the original shape, tying securely with string or sewing them up. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, place the Rabbits on these, and surround them with slices of carrots and onions, laurel-leaves, thyme, and parsley, and salt and black pepper to taste. Pour over sufficient stock and white wine to moisten them, cover with slices of fat bacon, and then with well-buttered paper; place the saucepan on the lire, and cook slowly until the meat is tender. After the Rabbits have remained in the saucepan off the lire for half-an-hour, remove the paper and slices of bacon, take them out, and put them on a dish. Strain the liquor into another sauce- pan, skim it well, add a little whipped white of egg to clarify it, pour it over the Rabbits, and let it get cold and jellied. If preferred, the clarified liquor may be allowed to get cold ; it will then form a jelly, and can be cut into shapes, and used as a garnish for the dish. Fig. 343. Fried Rabbit avith Mushrooms. Gibelotte of Rabbits.—This is a kind of fricassee very popular in France and more especially in Paris, where it is prepared to perfection. Remove the skin from a couple of Rabbits, clean them, and chop them up into rather large-sized pieces. Put them in a basin with two onions and a few sweet herbs, baste them with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and let them remain for two hours or so to macerate in this. Take them out, drain them, wipe them dry with a cloth, put them in a saucepan with a little melted lard or fat bacon, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and fry them until they are dry and of a light colour. Dredge over a little flour and pour over sufficient white wine to cover them, and boil quickly for seven or eight minutes, stirring continually; then add 6oz. of streaky bacon cut up into small cubes, and a bunch of sweet herbs; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and continue the cooking. When the meats are nearly done, add fifteen or sixteen raw mushrooms, and cook for ten minutes longer; then add two dozen small onions glazed, sprinkle a little pepper over the onions and mush- rooms, remove the sweet herbs, turn the remainder out on to a dish, and serve. Grenadines of Rabbit.—Use some rather thick fillets of Rabbit, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon. Put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan with a small piece of glaze, and when melted put in the fillets and fry them until tender. When cooked, brown the larded part of the fillets under a salamander. Put the fillets on a hot dish, garnish them with cooked truffles and mushrooms, and serve them with a sauceboatful of bechamel sauce. Hashed Rabbit a la Portugaise.—Free the flesh of a cold roasted Rabbit from skin and bone and any tough parts, and chop it very small. Break up the bones of the Rabbit, and put them into a steAvpan Avith any trimmings of meat, 1 pint of Avhite stock, and h pint of Avhite Avine, seasoning Avith salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. SteAV Rabbits—continued. the bones gently for nearly an hour, then strain the liquor through a hue hair sieA’e. Pour it back into the steAA’pan, put in the hashed meat, Avith 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, a small quantity of saffron, and salt to taste. Stir the hash at the side of the fire for a feAV minutes Avithout letting it boil, and Avlien the meat is hot turn it into a hot dish, garnish Avith poached eggs, and serve. Jugged Rabbits.—Take tAAro Rabbits, clean them carefully, and cut them into joints. If the joints Avlien cut are alloAved to lie in milk-and-water all night, it Avill be an im- provement. Lay some thin slices of salted pork at the bottom of an earthenAvare jar, on them put some of the joints of Rabbit, streAV over a little chopped parsley and finely-minced onion, over this lay another slice or tAVO of pork, then joints of Rabbit, onion, and parsley, and so on till all is used up. Pour in \ pint of gravy, cover the jar close, stand it in a pan of boiling Avater in the oven, and let the contents cook for tAvo hours, or until the meat is tender. When quite done, arrange the pork and Rabbit on a hot dish, strain the gravy into a basin, and stand it in cold Avater for a minute to make the fat rise; skim this off, and add to the gravy 1 dessert-spoonful of red- currant jelly and a little broAvned flour that has been blended Avith 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of gravy. Put the gravy into a saucepan, let it boil for a feAV minutes, and pour it over the meat on the dish. A feAV forcemeat balls may be served in the gravy if desired. Legs of Rabbits a la Maintenon.—Put a small quantity of butter into a saucepan, Avith a feAV small pieces of bacon, salt, pepper, spices, bay-leaf, and parsley, place the pan on a *s1oav fire, and cook them a little. Put in the boned legs of as many Rabbits as required, and cook them gently until they are quite tender; then take them out and let them cool. Cut pieces of paper a little larger than the legs, so that they will Avrap round, put a thin slice of bacon on them, then the legs on that, then a little of the mixture they Avere cooked in; cover this over Avith another layer of bacon, and wrap the paper round the Avhole. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, broil them, put them on a dish Avith a napkin spread over it, and serve hot. Marbled Rabbits.—Select large plump Rabbits, clean them, and take out the livers and kidneys, Avhich put in a saucepan with a small piece of butter, and cook them OA’er a gentle lire until tender. Blanch the Rabbits in lukewarm Avater, drain and put them in a steAA’pan, Avith an onion stuck AA’ith four or live cloves, a bunch of SAveet herbs, tAvo bay-leaves, salt and pepper in moderate quan- tities, and cold water to cover them. When boiling, move the steAvpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmer- ing gently until the Rabbits are tender. Pick all the meat off the bones, and cut that from the legs and back into neat slices. Put the bones back into the steAvpan Avith the cooking-liquor, add £oz. of gelatine that has been soaked in Avater, and boil gently until the liquor is thickly reduced. While the liquor is simmering, put in it three or four slices of bacon or ham, leave them till cooked, and then take them out. Pick out the best pieces of the Rabbit- flesh, and mince the remainder very finely AA’ith an equal quantity of bacon, seasoning it Avith chopped parsley and thyme, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Bind this mixture AA’ith beaten egg, form it into small balls, and cook them for ten minutes in the above liquor; then take them out and drain them. Strain the liquor, pour a small quantity of it into a mould, and tAvist it about until the Avhole of the interior is coated Avith it (it sets better if the mould is first rinsed out AA’ith cold Avater). Fill the mould Avith the pieces of meat, slices of bacon cut into small pieces, the balls, a feAV halves of hard-boiled eggs, and the livers and kidneys, Avhich should be cut into small pieces. Season the liquor to taste, giving it rather a sharp flavour with lemon-juice, pour it over the contents of the mould, and put it on ice or in a cool larder. If possible, leaA’e it until the following morning. Before serving, scrape all the fat off the top, dip the mould quickly in warm AA’ater to loosen the jelly, then turn the contents on to a dish over Avhich has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads. U