295 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Rabbits—continued. wipe it, then turn the jelly out on to a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper that has been spread on a dish. Rabbit Pate.—Skin, draw, and disjoint as many Rabbits as required, according to the size of the pate-dish. Put a few thin slices of bacon at the bottom of the dish, cover them with mincemeat of any kind highly seasoned with mushrooms, chives, parsley, garlic, and pepper ; arrange the jueces of Rabbits on this, putting them as close together as possible, cover again with more seasoned mince- meat, shaking the dish so as to let it settle well in between the pieces of meat; put a few more thin slices of bacon on the top, pour over 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and place the lid on the dish, hermetically sealing it with paste made of flour and water. Put the dish into a slow oven, and bake until the whole is quite done. Take it out, let the meat, &c., get quite cold in the p&te dish, and serve. Rabbit Pie.—(1) Skin and clean two or more Rabbits, cut them up into joints, ilien again into small pieces, removing all the largest bones; add about lib. of steak and a few slices of bacon also cut up small, sprinkle the whole over with iinely-ininced parsley and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste ; put them at the bottom of a pie-dish intermixed with a few forcemeat balls or yolks of hard-boiled eggs, pour over sufficient stock or water to moisten, put a crust of light paste on the dish, brush it over with beaten egg slightly salted, put the dish in a moderate oven, and bake for a couple of hours. Take it out when cooked, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Soak a Rabbit in salted water for lialf-an-hour, wash it well, cut it into eight pieces, and stew them till they are half done in just enough water to cover them. Lay some slices of salted pork at the bottom of a pie-dish, on these lay the pieces of Rabbit, shake over a very little powdered mace, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice; over the Rabbit lay some slices of hard-boiled eggs and some little bits of butter, and sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, and over this put a thin layer of thin slices of salted pork. Pour in the water in which the Rabbit was stewed mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, cover with puff paste, cut a slit in the middle, and bake it for an hour. Lay a piece of paper over it to prevent it from browning too fast, and when done serve hot. (3) Select a young and tender Rabbit, skin and draw it, chop it in pieces, put them into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and add 8oz. of bacon, one or two onions, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a sprig each of parsley and thyme. Put the saucepan on the fire and boil quickly for about forty-five minutes; then take out the Rabbit, remove all the bones, return them to the saucepan, and reduce the liquor to \ pint. Take out the bacon, cut it into thin slices, put half of them at the bottom of a pie-dish, place the Rabbit-meat on the top, intermixed with till, of veal-and-ham forcemeat or any kind of sausage meat rolled into small balls with the yolk of egg to bind them, and cover with the rest of the slices of bacon. Strain and skim the gravy, mix .in 1 teaspoonful eacli of salt and pepper, pour it over the bacon, cover the dish with a flat of puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Take it out when cooked, and serve either hot or cold. The liver of the Rabbit should be cooked, minced with a little parsley, and added to the forcemeat, as this improves the flavour. (4) Skin and draw a couple of young Rabbits, and cut the legs and backs into good-sized pieces, taking out as many bones as possible; put the pieces of meat into a saucepan with a little scraped bacon and 6oz. of uncooked ham or streaky bacon, and cook them gently over a clear fire; sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, stir in a few chopped mushrooms, pour over 1 wineglassful of white ■wine, cover the pan, and stew until all the meat is cooked. Put a round flat of short-paste on a well-buttered baking-sheet, spread over this a layer of veal forcemeat seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, leaving a clear margin all round, pile the pieces of Rabbit on this after they have got a little cool, and cover them with more veal forcemeat, smoothing over the surface. Damp the edges of the flat of paste, cover the forcemeat dome with Rabbits—continued. a thin layer of puff paste, and make it adhere to the flat by pressing them together. The paste should be gradually thinned as it reaches to the under flat of paste, that is, it should be thicker at the top of the dome than at the base. Trim off the pastes where they join, leaving about Hin. projecting at the base of the forcemeat. Have ready a strip of puff paste, place it round the dome to about half its height, cementing it at the bottom to the flat; decorate the dome with leaves of paste, make a hole in the centre, place a leaf on it, brush the dome and the upper edge of the strip of paste with egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When done, take it out, slip it off the baking-sheet on to a dish, take off the leaf covering the hole, pour in a few table-spoonfuls of rich sauce, place the leaf back again, and serve either hot or cold. About Hlb. of veal forcemeat will be required. (5) Skin and clean one or two Rabbits, chop off their heads, and disjoint them, cutting the backs each into four equal- sized pieces and the legs into halves. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add a few mush- rooms, one shallot, and a little parsley, all finely chopped; cook them a little, then add the pieces of Rabbit, and stew them until the meat is quite firm. Sprinkle over salt, pepper, and ground mixed spice, and strain off the butter. In the meantime, prepare a paste, form a raised pie shape, put in the pieces of Rabbit, and bake them with the paste. When cooked, cut a round off the top of the pie, pour over a hot ragoCit a la financiere, put the cover on again, and serve. Rabbit-and-Fotato Fie.—Cut a Rabbit into middling- sized pieces, and wash it in warm water. Peel and ■wash about eighteen large potatoes, and cut them into slices. Peel and chop five or six onions. Grease the interior of a baking-dish with butter or fat, cover the bottom with a layer of the potatoes, then half of the pieces of Rabbit, cover them with thin slices of fat bacon, and strew over some of the chopped onions. Season with salt, pepper, and powdered sage, and proceed with the remainder of the ingredients, placing them in layers as before described, the last layer being potatoes. Moisten the whole with a small quantity of water, cover the dish, and put it in a slow oven. In about two hours’ time take the pie out of the oven, take off the cover of the dish, and brown the potatoes with a salamander. Serve while very hot in the dish in which it was baked. About 1,1b. of bacon will be required. This makes a very tasty dish. Rabbit Pudding.—(1) Skin and clean a Rabbit, and wash it in several waters; remove the head, cut the body into small pieces, and season them with salt, pepper, and mush- room powder. Finely mince 4oz. of veal-suet, mix it with lib. of flour, and add a small quantity of salt and suffi- cient water to knead it into a smooth paste ; roll this out, put the pieces of Rabbit in it, dredge them lightly over with flour, moisten them with a small quantity of water, close the paste round the pieces of Rabbit, and tic it up in a floured pudding-cloth. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-liours-and-a-half, keeping it well covered with water, but do not let it cease boiling. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve Fig. 347. IUubit Pudding. it with a sauceboatful of clear gravy and a garnish of boiled potatoes. The pudding may, if preferred, be boiled in a basin in the ordinary way, and garnished with table- spoonfuls of mashed potatoes (see Fig. 347).