209 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Plums—continued. have heen stoned, and boil until reduced to a pulp. Crack some of the stones and boil the kernels in the marmalade. Turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover them with paper, tying it down securely. (2) Peel the Plums, cut them into halves, and remove the stones. Weigh the Plums, and put them into a preserving- pan until a quarter their weight of crushed loaf sugar. Stir the sugar till dissolved by the side of the tire, then move the pan on and boil the contents to 33deg., stirring all the time. Move the preserve from the fire, allow it to cool a little, and turn it into glass jars. When quite cold, cover the jam first with brandied paper, then with white paper, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. Plum Paste.—Remove the stones from some Plums, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water, and boil to a pulp. Pass it through a fine sieve, pressing it gently back into the pan, and boil, stirring continually until the pulp becomes quite thick. Weigh it, and to each pound use lOoz. of sugar. Put the sugar in a preserving-pan, clarify it, and boil to the feather (see SUGAR BOILING). Add the fruit pulp, boil for a minute longer, and if it is done, which can be determined by dropping a little from a spoon to see if it is sufficiently jellied, pour it on to a flat tin sheet, spread it with a knife, and put it in a warm closet for a day. Cut the paste into shapes, put them in boxes or tins with paper between the layers, and keep them until wanted for use. Plum-and-Pear Jam.—Peel and stone 41b. of ripe Plums, and peel an equal quantity of ripe pears; put the fruit in a preserving-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of the very best cider and about 1 teaspoonful of pounded cloves. Stir the fruit over the fire and boil it until reduced to a stiff mass, then turn it into jam jars. When the jam is quite cold, put a round of brandied paper in each jar, and cover with parchment. The jam should be kept in a dry store- cupboard. Plum Pulp for Ices.—Cut open the required quantity of Plums and extract the stones, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set the pan on the fire, and boil the Plums to a pulp; pass the pulp through a sieve, and for every pound weight of it add 4oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Mix thoroughly, pour the mixture into bottles, and cork and tie them down securely. Put them in a deep saucepan with hay between to prevent them touching each other, pour in water to half their height, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Let the bottles remain in tlie pan until the water is cool, take them out, wax over the nozzles, and put away till wanted for use. Plum Soup (German).—(1) Put two or three dozen black Plums into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for a few minutes, take them out, and peel. Put them in a saucepan with a little water to moisten, and add 1 wine- glassful of white wine. Set the pan on the fire, add 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar and a little lemon-zest, boil the Plums to a pulp, and pass them with the liquor through a fine sieve into a soup tureen. Pack the tureen in ice. When the Plum mixture is cool, cut two or three dozen more Plums into halves, peel them, remove the stones, put them into a preserving pan with a little light syrup mixed with 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil. When this mixture is cold, pour it into the tureen with the other Plum pulp, and serve cold with slices of fried bread on a dish. (2) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour and stir it over the fire until brown; then put in lqt. of Plums, having carefully picked them over and removed all the bruised and over ripe ones, also a few cloves or a stick of cinnamon, pour in water to cover, and boil until soft. Strain the liquor, pour in \ pint each of wine and water, sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar, and put it over the fire until boiling. Arrange slices of evenly-toasted bread in a soup tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. Plum Tart.—(1) Take off the peel from five dozen black Plums without putting them in boiling water, arrange them in a tart dish in layers, sprinkling each layer over with a little caster sugar. The stones must not be taken out Plums—continued. for this dish. Put a border of fine short paste round the rim of the dish, and cover it with a flat of the paste. Ornament the tart, brush it over with a little water, sprinkle over some caster sugar, and put it in a moderate oven to bake. When done, take it out and serve. (2) Line an open tart-dish with a layer of puff paste and sprinkle over a little sugar. Cut out the stones from the required quantity of Plums and arrange them in the dish, putting them close together so as to cover the paste. Place the tart in a moderate oven, Lake for tli rty minutes or so, take it out when done, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Split the Plums and take out the stones, put them into a stewpan with plenty of sugar and a small quan- tity of water, and stew them until tender. Prepare a nice short paste, mixing with it the yolks of three and the white of one egg, roll it out rather thinly, and line a buttered tart mould with it; trim it off nicely round the edges, spread a sheet of white paper over, and fill it with uncooked rice ; bake it in a good oven. When cooked, turn the paper with the rice out of the paste, put the stewed Plums into it, and serve. The tart is very nice served cold with a custard. Plum Tartlets.—Line six fluted tartlet-pans with Mb. of puff paste, rolled out 21in. by 8in. and cut round with a cutter. Press the paste at the bottom and sides so as to obtain the shape of the mould, mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade equally divided, over this put twelve Plums cut into halves and stoned, dust them over with powdered sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Bring them to the oven door, dust the edges over with more powdered sugar, melt this for two minutes FIG. 266. PLUM TARTLETS. in the oven, take out the tarts and let them cool, turn them out of the pans, mask them with a little apple jelly, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish (see Fig. 266). Plum Vinegar and Claret.—For each quart of Plums allow | pint of vinegar, 1 teacupful of claret, 4oz. of sugar, four cloves, and a small piece of stick cinnamon. Put the vinegar, wine, sugar, and spices in a lined pan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Select the Plums perfectly round and ripe, and put them, a few at a time, into the boiling vinegar; take each lot out as their skins begin to crack, and lay them on plates to cool. When all the Plums are done, boil the syrup for a few minutes longer, then take it off the fire, and let it get cold. Pack the Plums in jars, and pour the syrup over them. If the syrup does not cover them, they should be constantly turned about. In a week’s time the syrup should be strained off the Plums and boiled up again. Pour the syrup over the Plums, and cover the jars with stout paper, which should be tied securely down. Preserved Plums.—(1) Take some full-grown Plums, not quite ripe, but just turning colour, prick them, and put them into a saucepan of cold water over the fire; take them off directly the water is on the point of boiling, drain, put them into clarified sugar, boil them well, let them settle, and boil again. If they shrink and do not take the sugar, prick them without taking them from the syrup, and boil again; skim the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and let them stand all night. The next day, add to the fruit and syrup in the pan some sugar boiled to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), and boil them again ; put them in the stove and let them stand there all night. Next For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. P