THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 194 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred, to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. another egg, fib. of butter that has been beaten till creamy with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, J saltspoonful of salt, and i teacupful more warm milk. Work the paste well, then add eight more eggs, one at the time. Butter a plain cylinder-mould, 8in. in diameter, pour the cake mixture into it, and bake. When cooked, turn the cake out of the mould, leave it till cold, then cut into slices. Lay the slices of cake on a baking-sheet, dredge them well with caster sugar, and glaze in the oven. Peel some Pine- apples, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with some thin syrup, and let them simmer gently. Place the trimmings of the Pine-apple in a mortar and pound them well, then rub them through a fine hair sieve, arranging the croiites and Pine-apple slices alternately on a dish, forming them in a circle. Boil the syrup in which the Pine-apple was cooked till reduced to 32deg., then mix it with the pounded Pine-apple, strain the whole through a fine hair sieve over the erohtes and Pine-apple, and serve. Pine-apple for Dessert.—(1) Make a thick cushion of a paper, generally known as tampion, in a fancy dish, cover it well with dyed moss and real or artificial vine leaves, stick the stalk of the Pine in the centre of the paper, and garnish round with any other kind of fruit (see Fig. 248). (2) Peel and thinly slice a Pine-apple; arrange the slices in a glass dish, sprinkle over some caster sugar, and keep them on ice till ready to serve. Pine-apple Drink (Indian Style).—Put the thickly pared rind of two Pine apples in a stone jar, pour over it 2qts. of boiling water, cover the jar, and let it stand for two days. At the end of that time strain the liquor, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, pour it into bottles, and cork down tightly. In about a week’s time the Pine drink 'will be ready for use. Pine-apple Drops.—Mix fib. of coarsely-sifted sugar with sufficient Pine-apple pur6e to make a stiff paste. Put the mixture in a sugar-boiler, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Let the mixture fall slowly in drops from the lip of the pan on to a baking sheet. When cold, dry the drops in the screen, and put them away in glass bottles. Pine-apple served in Prankfort Style.—Cut off the top of a Pine apple about fin. down, carefully peel the Pine, put it in a pan, and cover with boiling syrup. Place the lid on the pan and let the syrup cool. When cold, scoop the inside of the Pine apple out, leaving a wall about fin. thick; put it again in the syrup, cover it, and keep it warm by the side of the fire. Chop the Pine apple pulp, put two-thirds of it in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonfuls of Fine-apples—continued. apricot marmalade to thicken it, and stand the stewpan in the bain-marie. Well wash fib. of rice and boil it in cream, flavour with vanilla, and when cooked add a piece of butter and a liaison of three yolks of eggs; mix in with it the remaining chopped Pine-apple, and pour it into a well-buttered round-bottomed border-mould that has been ornamented with preserved cherries and angelica. Keep the border in a warm oven for ten minutes, then turn the rice on to a round dish, fixing a block of fried bread in the centre nearly the height of the border. Drain the Pine apple, place it on the bread, fill it with the prepared salpifon, and set the top on the fruit, fixing it on by pushing a small silver skewer through, and glaze it with apricot marmalade. Fill the cavity between the bread and rice border with preserved cherries that have been washed and drained, and serve with a sauceboatful of apricot marmalade that has been mixed with a little Pine- apple syrup. Pine-apple Fritters.—Pare and grate a ripe Pine-apple, saving all the juice; put with the grated fruit and juice 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, the yolk of an egg, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of melted butter, and sufficient cold water to make a batter thick enough to sustain a drop from the spoon for a moment upon its surface. Have ready over the fire a frying-kettle; half-full of fat, and when it begins to smoke, quickly beat the white of the egg to a stiff' froth, stir into it the batter, drop the batter by the table spoonful into the hot fat, and fry the fritters until they are golden brown. Take them from the fat with a skimmer, and lay them for a moment on brown paper to free them from grease. Arrange them neatly on a china dish, dust them with powdered sugar, and serve. If the fritters are preferred large, the fruit may be thinly sliced, dipped in a batter made as above, and then fried and served in the same way. Pine-apple Glace.—Peel a Pine apple, cut out the eyes and discoloured parts, and cut it into slices Jin. thick. Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of water in a pre- serving-pan, and boil it for ten minutes; then put in the slices of Pine-apple and boil them for fifteen minutes. Take the slices of Pine-apple carefully out, put them on a sieve, and dry either in the sun or near the fire for half- an-hour. Boil the syrup, reduce it till it will harden on being dropped in cold water, then dip the slices of Pine- Fig. 249. PiNE-AprLE Glace. apple in, put them on a buttered plate, and sprinkle a little caster sugar over. When dried and hardened, put some fresh green leaves in a glass dish, place over these the slices of Pine-apple (see Fig. 249), and serve. Fine-apple Jam.—Procure the Pine-apples when just ripe, peel them, and trim off all the eyes and any discoloured parts; cut them into slices and then into small squares. Weigh the fruit, and for each pound allow lib. of caster sugar. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan, stir it con- stantly over the fire with a wooden spoon until the juice runs from it and it is quite hot, then put in the sugar gradually, and stir continually until it will set. Turn the jam into jam jars, and put them in a cool place until the following morning. Afterwards put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover with parchment, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. Pine-apple Jelly.—(1) The Pine-apples should be perfectly ripe; pare them as thinly as possible to avoid waste, and take out the eyes. Grate the Pine-apples; then to every breakfast-cupful of the grated fruit add Jib. of white sugar, and let it stand for two or three hours; next put it on the stove in a preserving-pan, let it come slowly to the boiling-point, and boil very gently till the fruit is