254 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. ten or twelve hours. Take it out, drain quite dry, and with a pair of scissors cut it up into small pieces or strips. Put these pieces of peel into a saucepan of water and boil until quite tender, then take them out and drain on a sieve. Put 1 teacupful of sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and boil to a syrup; then put in the pieces of orange-peel, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Turn the whole into a basin and let it stand for a day. Put 1 pint each of sugar and water into a sugar-boiler, and boil to the thread degree {see Sugar-boiling), which will take about twenty minutes. Put the pieces of orange- peel from the other syrup into this and boil for thirty minutes; then take them out, drain well, and put them on a dish in the oven. Put loz. of gelatine into 1 teacupful of cold water, let it soak for two hours or so, then pour over sufficient boiling water to make, together with the strained juice of six oranges and the water with the gela- tine, about 5 teacupfuls. Mix in 1 teacupful of sugar, and when it is dissolved pour the whole through a line sieve into a shallow dish. Make small holes at the -ends of six eggs, empty them, and wash them well inside; drain them quite dry, and fill them with warm blanc- mange. Put them in a basin of meal or Hour, having the ends with the holes uppermost, and let them get quite cold. When the jelly is quite cold and firm, break it into small lumps, put it on a dish, and with the pieces of orange-peel form half-a-dozen nests in the jelly. Put the eggs in these nests, and serve. Bishop’s Pudding.—Line a dish with puff paste, and spread over a layer of any jam or preserve. Cut a thin round of bread from a household loaf, spread it well over with butter, place it on top of the jam or preserve, pour over 1 teacupful of ground rice well worked into lqt. of milk, and add four well-beaten eggs, sufficient sugar to taste, and a slight flavouring of lemon. Put the Pudding in a quick oven, and bake for forty-five minutes; then take it out, and serve. Blackcap Pudding.—Cut two penny French rolls into slices, butter them, and remove the crusts. Brush a quart mould over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, ornament it inside with stoned raisins, then lay in the slices of buttered roll. Blanch and peel fifteen or sixteen sweet almonds, mince them finely, mix with them about 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced citron-peel, and sprinkle these over the roll. Make a rich custard, flavour and sweeten to taste, and pour it carefully in with the other ingredients, but not quite filling the mould, as room must be allowed for swelling. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and steam the Pudding for an-hour-and-a-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Californian Pudding.—Well beat four eggs, mix them with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and add 1 h wineglassfuls of sherry and A wine- glassful of pale brandy. Pour the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire until thickened; but it must not be allowed to boil, or the eggs will curdle. Line a mould with slices of sponge cake, and strew over it a moderate quantity of chopped sultana raisins and candied citron-peel. Pour the custard over the contents of the mould, stand it in a saucepan witli boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for an hour. When cooked, leave the Pudding until cold, then turn it on to a dish, and serve. Bombay Pudding.—(1) Beat three eggs together with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, pour them into a lined saucepan, and stir over a slow fire until thickened, but not boiling. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, a small lump of butter, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Then grate a cocoa-nut and add it to the mixture. Butter a shallow dish, line it with good puff paste, and spread the cocoa-nut mixture over it. Put the Pudding in the oven, and bake until lightly brown. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Cut off two or three slices about £in. thick from a household loaf, and toast them lightly. Pour some boiling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Puddings—continued. syrup over the pieces of toast in a dish, and when they are thoroughly soaked serve them. (3) Half roast about lib. of soojee (a ground but not pulverised Indian-wheat), and then boil it in water until thick. Butter a soup-plate, turn the soojee on to it, and leave until cold, when it should be firm. Divide the soojee into equal moderate-sized pieces, mould them into round cakes, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and dredge lightly with flour. Put a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when boiling, put in the cakes and fry until nicely browned. Prepare h pint of thick syrup, with loaf sugar and a small quan- tity of water, and flavour it well with lemon-juice. Drain the cakes from the butter, arrange them on a hot dish, pour the syrup over, and serve. Boston Pudding.—Peel and core 21b. of cooking apples and cut them into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with a small piece of stick cinnamon, two or three cloves, and the thinly-pared rind of a large lemon; moisten them with a little water and stew them gently until reduced to a pulp. When cooked, sweeten the apples to taste with moist sugar, and pass them through a fine sieve. Beat the yolks of three eggs and the white of one with 3oz. of warmed butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the grated peel and strained juice of half a lemon; add the whole to the apple mixture, and beat thoroughly. Butter and line the edges of a pie-dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Bowdoin Pudding and Pumpkin Pie.—Mix with 1 pint of cornflour 2oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, 1 teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses. Well beat two eggs with l pint of milk, and stir them in with the above ingredients. When quite smooth, stir in gradually 11- pints of boiling milk. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake for four hours in a moderate oven. Pour a little cold milk occasionally over the top of the Pudding to prevent it from becoming too dry. Meanwhile prepare a pumpkin pie as follows: Peel and stew the pumpkin in a small quantity of water until soft, then drain and mash it, sweeten to taste, beat three eggs ui) with it, and add the grated peel of half a lemon, small quantities of powdered ginger, cinnamon, and salt, also a few drops of essence of rose-water and loz. of warmed butter, lastly mixing in with it 1| pints of boiling- milk. Line a buttered dish with paste, turn the above mixture in to it, and bake. Serve the pie with the Pudding while hot. Brandy Pudding with Brandy Sauce.—Dissolve 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar in A pint of boiling milk; when cool, beat in six eggs. Lay at the bottom of a well- buttered basin a thick sprinkling of stoned and chopped raisins and some chopped candied orange-peel; over these lay some thin slices of stale bread that have been saturated in brandy, and then pour in the beaten eggs and milk. Cover the mouth of the basin with a piece of buttered paper, tie it tightly down, and let the basin stand for a few minutes; then put it in a saucepan partly filled with water, and steam for an-hour-and-three-quarters. Make a sweet sauce and flavour it with brandy and vanilla. Turn the Pudding out, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Buff Pudding.—Mix 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with 1 salt-spoonful of salt and 1 pint of milk, turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until quite thick ; then take it off and stir in 3oz. of butter, five or six lumps of sugar, and a moderate quantity of grated lemon-peel. Beat three eggs well, and when the mixture is cold stir them in. Butter and line the edges of a pie- disli with puff paste, turn in the mixture, and bake the Pudding for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When ready, put a few table-spoonfuls of marmalade on the top of the Pudding, and serve either hot or cold. Cabinet Pudding.—(1) Thickly butter the interior of a mould and arrange a pretty design at the bottom with fancy-shaped pieces of citron-peel and raisins; over these -put a layer of sponge cake cut into strips of any length