THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 332 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. quantity of salt. Beat the Rice well, mixing the batter gradually in with it. When quite smooth, stir in 1 scant teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda. Drop the mixture in moderate quantities on a floured griddle, and bake the cakes. Butter them, and serve while hot. See Fig. 386. Rice Gruel.—(1) Wash 2oz. of Rice, and boil it in 1 pint of water for three or four hours; then strain the gruel from the Rice. When required for use, warm it up with an equal quantity of milk, and sweeten it with loaf sugar. (2) To 1 pint of water add 2 level dessert-spoonfuls of ground Rice and 1 level teaspoonful of salt, put it on the stove, and let it boil for thirty minutes, stirring it now and then. Serve at once. If desired, a stick of cinnamon may be boiled in it, or a glass of brandy may be stirred into it before serving. (3) Put loz. each of well-washed Rice, pearl barley, and sago into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and simmer until the whole is quite tender, or for about two hours, by which time the liquor should be reduced to lqt. Strain the liquor into a basin or jug, add sufficient sugar to sweeten and a little flavouring of any kind, and serve. Rice -with Hard boiled Eggs.—Put a layer of boiled Rice at the bottom of a dish, and cover it over with a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs with a little thin cream sauce poured over them. Fill the dish in this way, having the top layer either Rice or buttered breadcrumbs. Warm in the oven, and serve. Rice Jelly.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed and picked Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of cold water, and boil for an hour, or until the Rice is dissolved. Add salt and sugar to taste, letting the sugar predominate, and a little lemon-juice. Strain the liquor into a mould packed in ice, turn it out when cold and firm, and serve with cream and sugar. (2) Rub off the rind of a lemon with 2oz. of loaf sugar, put them into a saucepan with Hoz. of butter, and add 8oz. of ground Rice and sufficient milk or cream to give it the consistency of custard. Set the saucepan on the fire and boil for five minutes, stirring constantly; add |rOz. of dissolved gelatine. Turn the mixture when cold into a mould packed in ice, turn the jelly out when set, and serve with preserves. (3) Wash and blanch lib. of Rice, put it into a sauce- pan with ligall. of water, and boil for an hour. Strain quickly into another saucepan, put it on the fire, add lib. of loaf sugar and the strained juice and finely-chopped rind of a lemon, and simmer gently until the sugar is dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire, pour in 1 wine- glassful of kirschenwasser, turn the mixture into a mould smeared over with olive oil or oil of almonds, and let it remain until the jelly is stiff and cold. Turn it out, and serve with preserve. Rice Kedgeree.—Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of cold-boiled Rice with an equal quantity of cold cooked fish freed from bones, put the mixture into a dish, and add a little minced parsley, two or three chillies, anti two boned an- chovies, sprinkling over salt and pepper to taste. Cover the mixture with two soft-boiled eggs, pour over H table- spoonful of warmed butter, set the dish over the fire or in the oven, make the preparation hot, and serve at once. Rice Kheer (Indian).—Put Jib. of good boiling Rice (barsunette or cheeneesuckur) into a saucepan of water, and boil until done: then drain off' all the liquor, pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of new rich cow’s milk, and stir well over the fire until warm. As the Rice absorbs the milk, add two or three small sticks of cinnamon and 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of sifted crushed loaf sugar to sweeten. When the whole of the milk is absorbed, turn the kheer out on to a dish, and serve; or put it in a mould, allow it to get cold, and then serve. Rice with Lamb’s Sweetbreads.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed Rice into a saucepan with 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water or milk, boil it gently until soft and all the liquor is absorbed, and mash it well. Line a well-buttered plain border mould with it, place the mould in the oven, Rice—continued. and brown the surface. Turn the border out on to a dish, fill the cavity with a mixture of lamb’s sweetbreads and Fig. 387. Rice with Lamb’s Sweetbreads. cocks’ combs, cooked separately in brown sauce (see Fig. 387), and serve. Rice-and-Macaroon Pudding.—(1) Wash 6oz. of Rice, and boil it in lqt. of milk with a small piece of lemon- peel until stiff, but not done to a jelly; then take it off the fire and leave it until nearly cold. Warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 4oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and stir them well into the Rice. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently into the above in- gredients. Butter a pudding basin, put in a layer of the Rice, over that put a layer of bitter macaroons, next a layer of Rice, and so on, until the basin is full. Tie a floured cloth over the basin, put it in a saucepan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not enter the basin, and steam it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sweet sauce. (2) (German Style).—Wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it into a lined stewpan with a little more than 1 pint of milk and a piece of lemon-peel, and boil it slowly; when cooked, the Rice should have absorbed the milk, but with- out being too much done; then move it from the fire, and leave it until cool. Warm 2oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then beat in the yolks of five eggs, and mix them with the Rice. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the Rice. Butter a mould, put in a layer of the Rice, and on that put a layer of macaroons, then another layer of Rice, then another of macaroons, and so on, until all is used. Tie a sheet of buttered-paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a stewpan in boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an-hour-and-three-quarters. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a wine sauce. Rice in Maltese Style.—Put 111>. of well-washed Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, add the juice of two or three lemons, and boil slowly until the Rice is soft. Turn it out on to a sieve, put it when drained into a basin, add the strained juice of four oranges, 1 wineglassful of maras- chino, and a little each of orange syrup and kirschen- wasser. Stir frequently until the Rice is nearly cold, drain it, and fill a dome-shaped and a border mould witli it. Pack the two moulds in ice for an hour. Turn the border mould out first, then the dome-shaped one in the centre of the other, decorate them with pieces of angelica, candied peel, and preserved fruit (see Fig. 388), and serve Rice Mange.—Put lqt. of milk into a lined saucepan with a piece of lemon-peel, a bay-leaf, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and chopped sweet almonds, and loaf sugar to taste, and put it over the fire. Mix 2oz. of ground Rice smooth with a small quantity of cold milk, and stir it in with the above; when it boils move it to the side of the fire, and stir it until thick. Rinse a mould out with cold Avater, pour the Rice in it, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve and the mange has quite set, turn it on to a glass dish, and pour a cold custard over it. Rice Manx Cake.—Put eight eggs into a basin, and beat vigorously for half-an-hour. Put 8oz. each of rice flour and