231 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Potatoes—continued. the butter lias dissolved, pour in \ pint of milk and 1 teacupful of yeast. Mix sufficient flour with the Potatoes to bring them to the consistency of thick paste, and put it in a warm place to rise. When the paste has well risen, mould it into small biscuits, leave them for fifteen minutes to rise, and then bake them. (2) Put into a mortar about 12oz. of pulp from roasted Potatoes, add Jib. of butter, and pound them well. Then add 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 2oz. of Hour, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt, and continue to pound until a smooth paste 'is obtained. Put this on a floured table, divide it into pieces about the size of a walnut, roll them out to about 3Jin. in length, put them on a slightly- buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a slack oven until they are well coloured. Put them into a dry closet until they are crisp, and they are then ready for use. (3) With 4oz. of sugar rub off the rind of a quarter of an orange or lemon, put it into a mortar, pound it, and add the yolks of three eggs and 1 table-spoonful of orris powder. Work well with a spoon for about ten minutes, then add the whites of three eggs whipped to a froth, also ljoz. of dried and sifted Potato-flour, and continue to work until a smooth paste is obtained. Put this into small tartlet-pans, having them well-buttered and dusted with sugar, sprinkle more sugar over the surface, and bake in a moderate oven for from eighteen to twenty minutes. Take them out, remove them from the pans, and serve. Potato Borders.—These are much used to form walls for holding various kinds of thick stews, hashes, minces, or ragouts. The Potatoes are first boiled, and then mashed up either with or without butter and beaten eggs. If a mould is used (see Fig. 294) it should be first well buttered, and the Potatoes beaten up thoroughly and worked into a nicely-seasoned paste with two eggs to every pound of Potatoes. Press the paste firmly into the moulds, level off with a knife, set in a quick oven for half-an-hour, or only a few minutes, according to whether the Potato border is desired browned or not. Turn out on to a dish. A border Fig. 294. Moulds for Potato Borders (Adams and Son). of mashed Potatoes may be laid round a hot dish with a spoon, and after being worked into shape, and roughened with the prongs of a fork, it can be set in a hot-closet or moderate oven to warm up again before putting in the stew, or whatever it is intended to contain. Potato Cake.—(1) Large.—Mash some cold boiled Potatoes, dredge them over lightly with flour, season them well with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of yeast. Mix the Potatoes with a little cold milk or thin cream into a not too thin paste, and roll it out to a round shape about lin. in thickness. Procure a frying-pan that will hold the cake nicely, put a lump of butter in it, and melt it; then put in the cake, cover it with a plate, and cook it over a good fire. When one side of the cake is done, turn it carefully over, adding more butter if necessary, and cook the other side. Drain the cake well, lay it on a. lace-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Blanch and pound together 2oz. of sweet and 6oz. of bitter almonds, mixing a small quantity of the white of egg with them occasionally to prevent them oiling. Separate the yolks and whites of ten eggs, and whisk the yolks well with 6oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the pounded almonds, 1 breakfast-cupful of mashed Potatoes, 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and the grated rind of half a lemon, and work the ingredients until well incor- porated. Whisk the whites of the ten eggs to a stiff snow, then stir them in gently with the above mixture. Potatoes—continued. Thickly butter the interior of a cake-tin, strew in some bread raspings, shake out what is loose, and pour in the cake batter. Sufficient room should be left in the mould for the cake to rise. Bake in a brisk oven. When cooked turn the cake out of the tin, and serve cold. (3) Bake sufficient Potatoes to make lilb. of the pulp when rubbed through a fine sieve, put this into a mortar, and work in gradually 12oz. of butter, 8oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, loz. of candied pounded orange-flowers, a little salt, the yolks of six eggs, and about 1 teacupful of double cream. Pass the whole of the mixture through a fine sieve, form it into the shape of a cake, put it into a moderate oven, and bake until done. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (4) Small.—Wash the Potatoes, and roast them in the oven; when cooked, scoop them out of their skins into a mortar, pound them with a small piece of butter, mix with them in moderate quantities some finely-minced shallot and parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Mould the mixture into small cakes, and dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cakes and fry them a delicate brown. Take them out of the fat, and put them on a sheet of paper for a few minutes to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli- cover over a hot dish, arrange the cakes on it with a few sprigs of fried parsley, and serve them. Potatoes in Cases.—Well wash eight or nine Potatoes, selecting them as large and mealy as possible, put them into hot ashes or in a quick oven, and bake them. Take them out, cut off a round of the peel the size of a florin from the top or end of them, and carefully scoop out all the inside pulp. Mash this, pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream or milk and cream in equal proportions, and Hoz. of warmed butter. Set the pan over a slow fire and boil gently, adding gradually the whites of two eggs whipped to a froth. Fill up the Potato skins with this mixture, put them in the oven till they are thoroughly warmed, put them in paper cases, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Potato Cassolettes.—Mince very finely a few sprigs of thyme, carefully picking out every trace of stalk. Mash \ lib. of mealy Potatoes until quite smooth, mix in the thyme, 1 pinch of powdered mace, and a very small grating of nutmeg, and season with pepper and salt. Use a little butter and two beaten eggs to make this into a paste, and then form the paste into cakes of any shape preferred, and either poach in the oven or fry in fat until brown. Serve very hot piled on a dish, or used as a garnish for a chicken ragout. Potato Cheese Cakes.—(1) Peel and wash sufficient Potatoes to weigh 6oz. when boiled, and mash them up as. fine as possible. In the meantime, put Jib. of lemon-peel into a saucepan of water, and boil it until quite tender; then take it out, drain it, put it into a mortar with 4oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar, and pound well. Put this mixture into a basin containing the mashed Potatoes, and work them together by adding 4oz. of butter warmed in a little hot cream. Have ready some small patty-pans lined with puff paste, a little more than half fill them with the Potato pulp, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, put them into a hot oven, anil bake for thirty minutes. Take them out, turn the cheese cakes out of the pans, let them get quite cold, and they are ready to be served. (2) Mash smoothly about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold 1 toiled Potatoes, and mix with them Jib. of butter, work- ing it in well, 6oz. of washed and dried currants, and 4oz. of moist sugar. Butter some patty-pans, strew grated breadcrumbs inside, fill them with the Potato mixture, and bake them in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, turn them out of the patty pans, put them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. (3) Beat Jib. of lemon-peel in a mortar with Jib. of sugar; add Jib. of floury boiled Potatoes mashed smooth, and then