THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 334 "Rice—continued. centre where they have been marked, till the cavity with cooked forcemeat or anything else desired, and serve. Rice and Peas (Italian).—Boil separately 1 breakfast- cupful of green peas, and 1 teacupful of Rice. Peel three or four onions, choir them, put them into a frying-pan with several leaves of parsley finely chopped and a lump of butter, and fry them till they are lightly browned. When the peas and Rice are nicely cooked, drain them, and stir them in with the onions, mixing thoroughly. Pile the mixture on to a hot dish, and serve. Rice-and-Pea Soup.—Thoroughly wash 1 teacupful of Rice, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, and let it boil gently until very tender. Put A pint of young- green peas into another saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, and stew them until tender. When both the above vegetables are cooked, mix them together, and add as much more stock as will make the required quantity of soup; when boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire, and stir in quickly the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with A teacupful of cream. Season to taste with salt and pepper, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Rice Pie (Turkish). — Butter a pie-dish and line it with puff paste. Wash 2 breakfast-cupfuls of Rice in several waters, then put it in a saucepan with plenty of water and a lump of salt, and let it simmer until swollen ; then drain the Rice, and mix with it Jib. of butter and four well-beaten eggs. Put a layer of the Rice at the bottom of the lined pie-dish, over that put a layer of tinned lobster, then a layer of Rice, anil so on until the pie- dish is full. Cover with a fiat of the puff paste, moisten the edges with a little water, and pinch them together. Put the pie in a brisk oven, and bake it. When cooked, serve the pie while hot. Rice Pilau. —(1) T1 now fib. of Rice into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, add a small lump of salt, and place it over the fire until boiling. After the Rice has been boiled five minutes, drain off the water, refresh it with cold, drain that off also, cover the Rice with a thick folded cloth, and leave it by the edge of the fire until swollen and soft. Put fib. of fresh butter in a basin, and place it in the oven or near the fire until dissolved ; then remove any scum that may be on the top, and pour the butter over the Rice. It is then ready for serving with the compote. (2) Put lqt. of nicely-flavoured stock into a stewpan, with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, J table- spoonful of coriander-seeds, a few cardamoms, a clove of garlic, and A teaspoonful of ground ginger. Boil the stock until the onion is soft, then strain it, and return it to the stewpan with fib. of well-washed Patna Rice, and boil it. When cooked, mix with the Rice a large lump of butter and a small quantity of salt. Toss the whole over the fire until the butter has dissolved, then pile it in the centre of a hot dish, garnish it with halves of hot hard- boiled eggs with fried parsley between them (see Fig. 389), and serve. Rice Pilau •with. Scallops.—Put the scallops in a bowl of water, wash them well, and scrape the shells; open the shells, but do not separate them. Peel about fib. of onions, chop them very finely, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them about over a brisk fire until lightly browned. Wash lib. of Rice in plenty of water to remove For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Rice - continued. all the dry flour that adheres to it, then drain and put it in with the onions, season with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire for ten minutes. Stuff the scallops with the Rice-and-onion mixture, put them in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, cover them with water, place a plate that will go right in the stewpan over them, and put the lid on. Boil the scallops gently until all the moisture has evaporated, and arrange them nicely on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Rice Porridge.—Put fib. of Rice into 3qts. of boiling water, and let it swell till it is quite a jelly; then add to it Jib. of oatmeal mixed with cold water, and stir it well in ; add also loz. of onion finely chopped, salt and pepper to taste, and Aoz. of bacon-fat, lard, or butter, and boil all together, stirring constantly. The quantity of oatmeal may if desired be larger—it may even be the same as the Rice. Rice Pudding (Baked).—(1) Take 1 teacupful of Rice boiled in milk till three-parts cooked, add two beaten eggs, 2oz. of currants washed and dried, loz. of butter, and sugar and grated nutmeg to taste; a little cream also is a great improvement. Mix well, put the pudding into cups, and bake. Serve hot with wine sauce. (2) Wash 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice, and boil it in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water; when nearly done, add lqt. of milk, and continue cooking till the Rice is quite soft. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with fib. of sugar, A salt- spoonful of salt, and I teaspoonful of essence of vanilla; stir all this well into the Rice and milk, and then remove it from the stove and stir in the beaten whites of four eggs. Add fib. of sugar to the other four whites, and beat them up to a very stiff froth. Put the pudding into a baking-dish, lay all over the top the froth of the beaten whites of eggs, and put it in the oven to brown. (3) Simmer 1 teacupful of Rice in 1 pint of water with a seasoning of chopped parsley, chopped onion, mixed herbs, celery-seed, pepper, and salt. When the Rice is cooked quite soft, mix with it Jib. of cold meat minced and beaten into two eggs, 1 gill of milk, and 1 table-spoon- ful of ketchup; mix it in well, pour it into a greased pudding-dish, and bake it for three-quarters-of-an-hour. This pudding may lie served either hot or cold. (4) Boil in a saucepan lqt. of milk, add Jib. of washed Rice, and with a whisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill them with the Rice, place them in a tin pan, filling it to half its height with warm but not boiling water, put it in the oven, and steam for thirty-five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, Aoz. of cornflour, and 3oz, of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes. Return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to a boil; then remove it, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauceboat, and serve. (5) Blanch Jib. of Rice in boiling water for five minutes, drain it, and put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of milk, Uoz. of butter, 8oz. of sugar, and sufficient vanilla sugar to flavour. Boil slowly for about an hour, let it cool, add three eggs, and beat them in. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for half-an-hour. Take it out when done, dredge over caster sugar, and serve. (6) Put 8oz. of well-washed and drained Rice into a saucepan with lqt. of milk, add the thin rind of half a lemon, set the saucepan over a slow fire, and boil gently •ices, <hc., referred to, see under their special heads.