264 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&c., referred, to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. wheat or rye flour, half a nutmeg grated, and 1 teaspoon- ful of salt. Let these boil for a minute, stirring con- tinually ; then remove the pan from the fire, add three well-beaten eggs, replace it on the fire, and stir until the mixture is quite thick. Turn it on to a dish, and serve very hot. Mocha Pudding.—Beat 2oz. of powdered white sugar into the yolks of two eggs, add by degrees loz. each of flour and potato-flour, and then mix in lightly the whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. When the Pudding is well mixed, put it into a well-buttered plain mould, and bake. When taken from the oven, turn it out of the mould and put it away till quite cold. Make an icing of Jib. of fresh butter and 2oz. of powdered white sugar by beating them together to a cream, adding, a drop at a time, 1 table-spoonful of the strongest coffee. When the Pudding is perfectly cold, spread most of this icing evenly all over the top, and ornament it with a piping of the remain- ing icing. The Pudding should be kept on ice or in a very cold place till served. Monmouth Pudding.—Break about 3oz. of crumb of stale bread into a basin, pour over it 1 pint of milk, and let it soak for half-an-hour. Beat three eggs well and mix with them the strained juice and grated peel of one lemon, 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar. Spread a thick layer of any kind of jam at the bottom of a rather shallow pie-disli, pour the mixture over it, and bake for about twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. Montreal Pudding.—Put three eggs into a basin, beat them thoroughly, and pour them through a sieve into another basin containing 2oz. of moist sugar, J teacupful of milk, and a flavouring of grated nutmeg. Dredge in slowly, working vigorously with a spoon, 4oz. of sifted flour; when this is thoroughly incorporated, add 7oz. of fine breadcrumbs, and work them all together for half-an-hour or more. If desired, Jib. of stoned raisins may be added. Put the mixture into a well-buttered basin, tie it over securely with a cloth, put it in a saucepan of water over a quick fire, and boil without stopping for three hours. Turn it out, and serve on a hot dish. Mousseline Pudding.—Put 6oz. of butter into a lined sauce- pan, melt it, then mix in with it 6oz. of caster sugar, the grated rinds of two small lemons, and the beaten yolks of fifteen eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire until thickened, but not boiling, then strain it through a fine sieve into a basin. Whisk the whites of the fifteen eggs to a stiff froth, and when the above mixture has somewhat cooled stir them in lightly. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam for twenty minutes. Great care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. When the Pudding is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour some preserved apricots round it, garnish with cherries, and serve. Nassau Pudding.—Put into a saucepan over a slow fire lib. of fresh butter and Jib. of powdered white sugar, break in four eggs, drop in also the yolks only of four other eggs, and stir all over the fire for nearly half-an- hour. Line a shallow dish with puff paste, putting a thick layer of the paste at the bottom, pour the contents of the saucepan on top, put it in the oven, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Neapolitan Pudding.—Put 3Joz. of crushed loaf sugar into a basin, mix it up with 12oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and beat in ] wineglassful of rum, the rind of a lemon very finely chopped, and lastly four well-beaten eggs. Put 6 table-spoonfuls of cream into a basin, add three more well- beaten eggs, and continue to whisk until they are incor- porated. Put a layer of ratafias intermixed with a few breadcrumbs at the bottom of a well-buttered plain mould, next a layer of the mixture, then of the slices of sponge cake thickly spread with any kind of jam or preserve, and continue in this way until the mould is quite full, finishing up with the mixture. Set the mould in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. Turn the Pudding Puddings—continued. on to a dish, pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly warmed and mixed with a little white wine, and serve. Nelson Puddings.—Well butter and sugar six small Pudding- moulds. Prepare twelve lady’s-finger cakes, cut them into halves, paring them neatly and carefully so as to be able to line the moulds evenly, and cut the parings into small pieces. Mix in a plate 3oz. of candied cherries with 2oz. of well-chopped citron, cover the bottom of the moulds with 2oz. of this, and on it put a layer of the lady’s fingers; spread half of the remaining fruit on top, and fill with the rest of the cake, finishing with the balance of the fruit. Then pour over custard made as follows: Put into a basin 4oz. of powdered sugar and three eggs, and beat briskly with a whisk for two minutes; add 1 pint of cold milk, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of lemon essence, and mix for one minute longer; then strain through a sieve into another basin, and with a ladle divide it evenly over the six Puddings. Set the moulds in a tin pan, with warm water to half their height, and place in a moderate oven to steam for thirty-five minutes ; take them out, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet wine sauce. Nesselrode Pudding.—(1) Peel the outer skins off about forty chestnuts and boil them in water for about half-an- hour; take them out, remove the inner skin, and then pound them to a paste, adding 1 pinch of salt during the pounding. Pass this paste through a sieve, moistening it with a little ci-eam. Have ready 1 pint of boiled custard, and add it to the chestnut paste. Put the whole in the freezer, and when it is firm beat 1 breakfast-cupful of cream to a froth and work it in; freeze again, and add 2oz. each of raisins, citron-peel, and stewed or candied pine apple, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and 1 teacupful of mara- schino. Work them well and freeze again, then put the Pudding in a dome-shaped mould on ice, and when wanted turn it out and decorate with angelica points and half cherries, garnishing round the dish with crystallised apricots or greengages. (2) This delicious ice can easily be prepared by closely attending to the following directions: Boil fifty chestnuts, remove the shells and skins, and either rub them through a sieve with a potato-maslier or pound them to a pulp in a mortar. There should be about 1J pints of chestnut pulp. Mix with it an equal quantity, by measure, of fine sugar, and 1J pints of very thick cream whipped to a stiff froth, and freeze it like ice-cream. In the meantime, put over the fire lib. of sugar and 1J pints of water, and let it boil. While the syrup is heating, pick over 4oz. of sultana raisins, and cut into small dice 4oz. each of citron and candied pineapple; and when the sugar has melted, put them into it, together with 4oz. of candied cherries. Boil the fruit in the syrup for five minutes, and then strain it, saving the syrup. When the fruit is put into the syrup, boil and peel twenty-five more chestnuts; when they are done, return the syrup to the fire with 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and boil it until large bubbles form on the top. Begin to test it by dropping a little into ice-water. As soon as it is hard and crisp directly it touches the water, dip the nuts into it and lay them on an oiled dish. The candied nuts are to be used as a garnish for the Pudding after it has been frozen. After the cream is frozen, mix the fruit with it, and pack it in a fancy mould for the second freezing, or in paper cases, and freeze a second time. Serve the candied nuts round the Pudding when it is sent to table. (3) Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan, pour over them 5 teacupfuls of boiling milk, put the saucepan on the side of the fire, and stir until the eggs begin to thicken. Turn it out into a basin, mix in 2oz. of savoy biscuits broken up into small pieces, and 6oz. of sugar, and stir frequently until the mixture is quite cold. Add the whites of three eggs whipped to a stiff froth, pour the whole into a freezer, and let it remain. When nearly frozen, stir in loz. of blanched and pounded almonds, 2oz. of preserved or dried cherries, Joz. of pistachio-nuts cut up into small pieces, and 2oz. of picked, washed, and dried currants. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon into a basin containing 1 gill of cream whipped to a stiff foam, add this to the other