34 6 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Rooks—continu ed. plenty of strong salted water. Season the birds inside and out with salt and pepper, butter the edges of a pie- dish, line them with a good paste, and put in the birds with a piece of butter and f breakfast-cupful of water; cover them with a flat of paste, trim it off evenly round the edges, moisten them with water, and press together. Cover the pie with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake it for from two-hours-and-a-half to three hours. Serve the pie hot or cold. ROOTS.—This term is applied generally by cooks to vegetables growing under ground, such as turnips, carrots, &c. ROSBACH WATER.—See Aerated Waters. ROSES.—These are more often used in confectionery than might be supposed, a fine flavour being abstracted from the flowers, to which it is usual to add a characteristic pink colour. Attar of Roses for Flavouring.—This is a very valuable article with which to flavour liqueurs, as it keeps well and imparts the pure aroma of the Rose. It is soluble in strong alcohol, but much more so in pure glycerine. Although rose-water gives a like flavour, like orange-flower water, it is much less stable than the attar of Roses. Candied Rose Petals.—(1) Soak a quantity of the petals of freshly-gathered Roses in cold water for a few minutes, and dry them in a soft cloth. Make a syrup of Jib. of loaf sugar and a little water, boil it till when a little of it is tried in cold water it is quite brittle, add to it then a drop or two of attar of Roses and a very little carmine; throw in the Rose petals, and stir them about in the syrup very carefully with a silver fork till they aiy well coated with sugar, then lay them on a sieve to dry. See Fig. 411. (2) Put about h pint of Rose petals over the fire in clarified sugar, crisp them, and boil them to the blow (see Sugar-boiling). Take the pan from the fire and pour the Rose-leaves on a sieve, letting the syrup ran from them and rubbing them with the hands; put them into a stove to dry. Place the syrup over the fire and boil it to the blow again ; mix a little carmine in to colour it, and pour it into a mould. Then put the Rose-leaves on the sugar and with a fork push them down gently so that they are completely covered with the syrup. Let the mould stand in a moderate oven or stove for five days. Drain off the syrup, and turn the candied leaves out of the mould on to a sheet of paper. Confection of Roses.—Trim off the white ends of lib. of freshly-gathered Rose-leaves, put the other parts in a basin with 2 Alb. of caster sugar, and work it together till the mixture is reduced to a paste; put the mixture into jars or glass bowls, arrange them on a tray, and place them where the heat of the sun is powerful. When near sunset, take the jars in, cover them, and leave them till the following day, when again place them in the sun, first removing the covers. Continue like this till the top of the confection is nicely crystallized, which will take about a month. This confection is often used with pastry. Conserve of Roses.—Boil fib. of sugar to the blow degree (see Sugar boiling), flavour it well with double distilled Rose-water, boil it to the pearl degree, colour it with a little prepared cochineal or carmine, and pour it into moulds. Roses—continued. Cream of Roses.—(1) Procure some pink cabbage Roses; take lOoz. of the petals, being very careful that none of the green is mixed up with them, put them in a jar, and pour over lqt. of warm water. Leave them for two days, then strain the liquor through muslin. Mix lqt. of brandy with the liquor, lib. of loaf sugar, and a few coriander- seeds, also a few drops of essence of cinnamon. Leave the mixture for ten days, when it should be strained again through filtering paper. Pour the liquor into small bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) Put 21b. of dried Rose-leaves into stone jars with 3qts. of spirits of wine (iOdeg. over proof; mix frequently for a month, add 10 drops of the oil of Roses, 4qts. of water, and 2Aqts. of capillaire; filter and bottle. Essence of Roses.—Put 2oz. of Genoa Rose-flowers into a bottle with 1 pint of rectified spirits of wine, cork it down tightly, and keep it in a warm temperature for a fortnight. At the end of that time decant the essence, and pour it into smaller bottles. Rose Candy.—Put the required quantity of sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil it to the ball (see Sugar boiling) ; colour while boiling with carmine or cochineal, flavour with Rose-water, and with a spatula rub a little of the sugar against the pan until it turns white. Oil some tins, put them on the stove to warm, pour the sugar into them when cool, mark it in squares, and when cold pack away in tms or boxes. Rose Cream Cordial.—Put 12 drops of the oil of Roses and 3 drops of the oil of nutmeg into a bottle containing lqt. of spirits; shake the bottle vigorously, pour in lqt. of syrup when the oils are dissolved, and add pink colouring to give the required Rose-coloured tint. Pass the liquid through filtering-paper into small bottles, cork them town, and set them aside in a cool place until wanted. Rose Cream Ice.—Put about 2 handfuls of freshly- gathered Roses in a basin, pour 1 pint of rich boiling cream over them, cove', and leave it for a few hours. Pass the cream through a sieve, beat the yolks of eight eggs, and mix them with it; sweeten with Alb. of caster sugar, and stir the cream over the fire till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Pass the cream through a silk sieve, leave it till cold, then put it in the freezer and freeze. When frozen, the cream may be put in a mould and packed in ice for two or more hours. When serving, dip the mould in warm water, then turn the cream quickly out on to a dish. Rose Drops.—Sift some crashed loaf sugar through a rather coarse sieve and then through a line sieve; take 21b. of the sugar that remains in the second sieve, put it into a basin, flavour with essence of Rose, and add, gradually, working well with a spoon, sufficient water to make a paste of such consistency that it will drop from the spoon without adhering to it. Colour with a little finely-ground cochineal moistened with water, put the paste into a pan with a spout to it, set it on the stove, and with a spatula stir well until all the sugar is dissolved and makes a noise. Remove the pan from the stove just before boiling, and work again with the spatula until the sugar is so thick that when dropped it will retain its form and not spread too much. A little finely-powdered sugar may be added if the paste is too thin. With the pan in the left hand and a piece of bent wire in the right, proceed to cut off small drops, letting them fall upon cartridge-paper or a smooth tin. Set them away to dry for about two hours, remove them carefully, and pack away in tins for further use. Rose Jam.—Gather the Roses when in full bloom, pick off about lib. of the largest petals, cut off the white ends, and put them in a stewpan with some small Rose petals; put the large petals in a basin. Pour J pint of water in the stewpan with the white ends and small petals, and place it over the fire until boiling. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, squeezing the petals well, then throw them away. Put the strained liquor in the sauce- pan with 3Alb. of caster sugar, stir it until dissolved, then put in the large petals, and boil until reduced to a thick