303 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Raisins—continued. great bulk of the German importations, and are popular in our Eastern counties.” Raisins of any kind may be cleaned by placing them in a sieve or colander and standing it in a large bowl of water so that the currants may be washed by shifting them about the sieve. When the sieve is lifted they can be drained thoroughly, then turned out on to a large cloth, over which they must be spread, carefully picked over, and then put by to di-y. Sultanas require very little washing, as they are packed quite clean for exportation. Malaga Raisins should have the pips removed, using a sharp small knife, or the fingers, and dipping either into a basin of water to prevent sticking. Machines for stoning Raisins are advertised, which would save much labour if effectual in their work. Besides the following receipts, Raisins are used in plum cakes, plum puddings, and other dishes described under special headings. Layer Raisins are served accom- panied with blanched Jordan almonds, and form a standard English dessert dish. The grocers’ currant, or Corinth grape, will be found fully described under the heading of Currants. Baked Raisin Pudding.—(1) Put So/., of dripping into a basin, warm it, and work in lib. of flour mixed with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder. Add 1 teaspoonful of ground mixed spice, loz. of candied lemon-peel cut up small, 4oz. of moist sugar, and 6oz. of stoned Raisins. Mix them well, and make the whole into a paste by adding two eggs beaten up in 1 teacupful of milk. Turn the mixture into a well-greased tin or dish, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for an hour. When done, take it out, turn the pud- ding out of the tin or dish, sprinkle it over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 354. (2) Butter the inside of a plain oval mould. Stone and pick the stalks from fib. of Raisins, putting some of these in the buttered mould in any fancy design. Cut some thin slices of bread, trim them, remove the crusts, dry Fig. 354. Baked Raisin Pudding. them before the fire, butter them, and cut them into strips about If in. wide. Line the mould with some of these pieces, and put a layer of Raisins at the bottom, shaking 1 table-spoonful of white powdered sugar over them. Add a layer of the pieces of bread-and butter, then a layer of Raisins sprinkled as before with sugar, and continue adding alternately bread-and-butter and Raisins sprinkled with sugar till the mould is nearly full. Let the top layer be bread- and butter. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 table-spoonful of white powdered sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, 3 dessert-spoonfuls of rose-water, and 1 pint of milk; pour this mixture into the mould, and let it stand for a couple of hours to soak. Bake it in the oven for three-quarters-of an-hour; or lay a buttered paper over it, tie a cloth over that, and boil it in a steamer for an-hour- and-a half. Turn out, and serve with wine sauce. Boiled Raisin Pudding.—(1) Put 8oz. each of sifted bread- crumbs, finely-shred beef-suet, stoned Raisins, and dried flour into a basin; grate over a little nutmeg, and add 2oz. of citron cut up small, a little powdered ginger, and 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar. Mix these thoroughly, and make them into a stiff paste by adding four well-beaten eggs, 1 table- spoonful of brandy, and 4 gill of milk. Turn the mixture into a well-floured cloth, put it into a saucepan of water over a clear fire, and boil for about four-liours-and-a-half. Turn it out on to a dish when done, dust it over with sugar, and serve. (2) Rub Jib. of dripping or mutton-suet into lib. of flour, add Jib. each of moist sugar and sultanas, or stoned Raisins, Raisins—continued. 1 teaspoonful of yeast powder, Jib. of treacle, and a flavour- ing of ground ginger, spice, and cloves. Beat the whole into a paste by adding sufficient skimmed milk or water, turn it into a floured cloth or buttered basin, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for about four hours or until it is done. Turn it out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (3) Put Jib. each of stoned Raisins, flour, and shred beef-suet into a basin, mix them, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and a couple of well-whipped eggs. Place the mixture into a floured cloth, tie it up securely, or put it into a buttered basin, cover with a cloth, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil from two- hours-and-a-half to three hours, by which time the pudding should be done. Turn it out and serve. Iced Raisin Pudding.—Stone 12oz. of Raisins, and boil them gently for fifteen minutes in lqt. of milk or cream with a small stick of cinnamon ; blanch Jib. of almonds’ and pound them fine in a mortar with a few drops of rose-water. Thinly slice 2oz. each of preserved ginger and citron, and beat the yolks of four eggs to a cream together with 4H). of powdered sugar. Strain the Raisins anti cinnamon from the milk, return the milk to the fire, and stir while the eggs and sugar are being added to it. Con- tinue stirring until it begins to thicken, then remove it from the fire, and when it is cold add the fruit and almonds with lqt. of sweetened cream. Put this into a freezing-pot and freeze, pile on a dish, and then pack it in ice. In serving the pudding, whipped cream flavoured with wine, brandy, or rum, is placed round it (see Fig. 355). Raisin Cake.—Put lib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat it to a cream, and add gradually lib. of sifted flour, the same of crushed loaf sugar, and the yolks of six eggs. Stir these well, and when they are incorporated add 1 wineglassful of brandy, a grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of water, and lastly the whites of the six eggs whipped to a froth. Work well until the mixture has a light and creamy ap- pearance, then add lib. of stoned Raisins or cleaned sultanas, finely chopped and sprinkled over with 1 breakfast-cupful of flour to make them mix in easier. Pour the cake mix- ture into a tin or mould lined with well-buttered paper, bake for an-hour-and-a-lialf, turn it out when done, and it is ready for. use. A few rose-leaves steeped in the brandy will add to the flavour of the cake. Raisin Crusts.—Stone some bloom Raisins, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of moist sugar and suffi- cient sweet wine to moisten, and stew them. Cut some pieces of bread about 3in. square and Jin. thick, and trim off all the crust. Put a lump of butter or lard into a deep frying-pan, and when boiling put in the squares of bread, and fry them until lightly and evenly browned ; next drain them well, put them on a hot dish, pour the stewed Raisins over, dust them with caster sugar, and serve. Raisin Roly-poly.—Pour boiling water over Jib. of Raisins, let them steep in it on the stove for ten minutes, then drain, and wipe them dry. Stone and chop them to a pulp. Mix together 1 lb. of the best sugar, barely 1 salt-