329 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Rice—continued. break when pressed between the fingers. Pound it all ■well again in a mortar, pass it through a fine sieve, and mix in the yolks of six eggs to bind it and form a paste, which should be quite firm. Put it into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a moderate oven till done. (2) Put Jib. of Rice into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil it slowly until the Rice is nearly soft; then drain off the water, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of white wine and water, and add the juice and finely- chopped rind of a lemon, and 6oz. of finely-crushed loaf sugar. Stir well over the fire until the Rice is quite soft, remove the pan from the fire, and let it cool. ell butter the inside of a mould, sprinkle it with a little white wine, turn the mixture into it, and let it remain for ten or twelve hours until it is quite firm. Turn it out on to a dish, ornament it with pieces of candied or preserved fruits, and serve. (3) Boil 2oz. of Rice for twenty-five minutes. When well done, drain, and add to it a short-paste, made of Jib. of flour, 6oz. of butter, the whites of two eggs, and J salt- spoonful of salt. Pound the paste and Rice well together in a mortar. Have ready a baking-sheet covered with a sheet of buttered paper, lay the paste on top, spreading it out about 6in. square, and put it in the oven for about twenty minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. (4) Wash Alii, of Rice in several waters, pick out any impurities, put the Rice in a saucepan with a stick of cinnamon and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon cut into small pieces; pour in lqt. of milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil gently until the Rice is tender and has absorbed all the milk. When cooked, turn it into a basin, remove the pieces of lemon-peel and cinnamon, and let it get cold. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, stir them in with the Rice, and add 2oz. of thinly- shred candied peel. Thickly butter the interior of a cake- tin, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs, pour the mixture into it, ami bake the cake in a brisk oven. In about half-an-hour’s time it should be cooked. (5) Wash in several waters about § breakfast-cupful of Rice, put it in a saucepan with a piece of lemon-peel and stick cinnamon, sugar to taste, and rather under lqt. of milk. Boil the Rice gently at the side of the fire until it is quite tender and has absorbed all the milk; then turn it into a basin, and remove the lemon-peel and cin- namon. When the Rice is cold, stir into it the beaten yolks of four eggs, the white of one, and 2oz. of thinly- shred mixed candied peel. Thickly butter the interior of a plain cake-tin, and strew in some grated breadcrumbs; shake out all the superfluous, pour the Rice into the mould, and bake it in a brisk oven for half-an-hour. Serve the cake when cold. (6) Put Jib. of Rice in cold water, and let it steep all night; then boil it very soft, drain, mix into it 2oz. of butter, and let it cool. When quite cold, stir into it 1 pint of milk and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Take three eggs beaten light and Jib. of sifted flour, and add them by degrees in small quantities and alternately. Beat all the ingredients well together, and then bake the mixture in small cakes of a convenient size on a griddle over the fire. Butter them, and serve hot. Rice Case or Croustade.—Put 8oz. of Rice into a sauce- pan with lqt. of water and loz. of butter or fat from cooked bacon, sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and boil until the Rice is quite tender and dry. Put it into a mortar, pound it well, form it into the shape of a ball on a baking-sheet, and then into the shape of a raised pie. Brush it over both inside and out with warm butter, set it in the oven to colour, take it out, and it is then ready for use. It may be filled with forcemeat, sausage-balls, or anything else that is desired. Rice Cassolettes.—Wash some Rice thoroughly, first in warm water then in cold, rubbing it well between the hands; drain it, put it into a stewpan with some toppings that have been strained, some pieces of fat ham, and 1 pinch of salt. Put the Rice over a slow fire, and stir it frequently till well cooked. When quite tender, strain the Rice through a colander. Grease the interior of some Rice—continued. dariole-moulds with some of the cooking-fat of the Rice, then turn them upside down so that any liquid may drain off. Put a layer of the Rice all round the inside of each mould, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each. The hollow may best be accomplished by filling the moulds with Rice, then digging a peeled carrot into it. bill the hollows in the Rice with some cold minced fowl that has been mixed with some bechamel sauce, cover . the mince carefully with Rice without allowing them to mix together, then leave the cassolettes till the Rice is quite cold and firm. Put a large lump of dripping into a deep frying- pan and make it very hot. Turn the cassolettes out of the moulds, put them in the dripping, and fry them care- hilly. Drain, arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Rice Cheese.—Boil lib. of Rice in little less than J pint of milk until it becomes as thick as hasty pudding, pour it hot into a basin over IJoz. each of butter and loaf sugar, mix it well together, and let it stand till cold ; then add the yolks of two eggs and the white o! one, and a little white wine, and serve. Rice Cheese Cakes. -Boil 4oz. of Rice in Jgall. of water, drain it well, put it into another saucepan, and add 8oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and Jib. of powdered loaf sugar. Make the whole into a paste by adding 1 wineglassful of brandy and six well-beaten eggs, ami stir well over the fire until the mixture is thick ; then remove the pan from the fire and let the mixture cool. Have ready some patty-pans lined with puff paste, put the Rice mixture into them to about three-parts their height, put them into a slack oven, and bake for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take them out when done, turn them out of the pans, and serve either hot or cold. Rice Coffee.—Brown 1 breakfast-cupful of Rice in the oven, grind it finely, put it in a jug, pour over it 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand for one hour. Strain it, and serve with sugar and cream. Rice Cream.—(1) Blanch 2oz. of pistachio kernels, and cut them into thin slices. Wash 1 scant teacupful of Rice, put it in a pie-dish with 2oz. of butter, Jib. of sugar, and lqt. of milk, and place it in a moderate oven until tender. When cooked, skim off the brown at the top, and mix with the rice the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, 1J wine- glassfuls of eurapoa and the pistachio-nuts. As these in- gredients should be mixed in while the Rice is very hot, the eggs should be beaten before the Rice is quite ready. Fill some small moulds with the mixture, leave them till nearly cold, and then stand them on ice. When ready to serve, turn the Rice shapes out of the moulds on to a dish. (2) Steep Jib. of well-washed Rice in water for several hours, afterwards turn it out on to a sieve and let it drain until dry. Bruise the Rice coarsely in a mortar, put it into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil it gently. When tender, turn the Rice into a basin, and leave it until cool. Mix loz. of dissolved isinglass and 1 pint of cream with the cooled Rice, sweeten it. to taste with caster sugar, and whip it to a still' froth. Put some fresh fruits, such as strawberries or currants, that have been carefully picked over, into a mould, pour the Rice cream over them, and leave in a cool place for several hours. When ready to serve, turn the cream on to a fancy dish. Rice Cream Soup.—Cut about 1 Jib. of loin of veal into small pieces, put it into a stewpan with 2qts. of milk and J breakfast-cupful cf well-washed Patna Rice ; put in a small onion, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the whole simmer gently at the side of the fire until the meat is very tender and the Rice reduced to a pulp. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, then return it to the sauce- pan ; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot, accompanied, if liked, with a plate of sippets of toast or