TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 344 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Roebuck—con ti nued. Braised Haunch of Roebuck.—Take oft’ the outer skin from a haunch of Roebuck, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, put it into a large basin, add a few finely-chopped sweet herbs, pour over 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, and let it remain for five or six hours, basting it fre- quently with the liquor. Take it out, drain it, lard it on the top with strips of fat bacon, put it into a sauce- pan, pour in the wine in which it was macerating, and add sufficient rich broth to moisten. Put the lid on the pan, cover with hot ashes, and set the haunch to braise. When done, put it on a dish with a paper ruffle round the bone, garnish with forcemeat quenelles, pour over a little of its strained stock, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Chaudfroid of Roebuck.—Cut oil' a dozen or so slices from a roasted or braised saddle of Roebuck, trim them of an equal size, .dip them into warm chaudfroid sauce so as to have them well covered, and put them on a baking-sheet in the hot-closet until the sauce has set; place the slices of Roebuck on a dish over a layer of aspic jelly, arrang- ing them in a circle, fill up the centre with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. Crepinettes of Roebuck.—Cut into small pieces about I Jib. of the minion fillets of Roebuck, put them into a basin with half the bulk in raw truffles cut into small pieces, sprinkle over a little salt and ground allspice, moisten with Madeira wine, and let the whole macerate for about an hour. Mince about |lb. of fat pork, add two or three poultry fat-livers, cooked and pounded, put these with the mixture in the basin, and mix thoroughly; take the preparation up in small quantities about the size of an egg, give them an oblong shape, cover separately with a piece of pig’s caul, flatten them a little, brush them over with butter, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire for about fifteen minutes, turning so as to cook both sides. Pour a little hot thick gravy at the bottom of a dish, place the crepinettes in it, and serve. Epigrammes of Roebuck with Truffles.—Cut off half-a- dozen cutlets from a Roebuck, place them into a raw marinade, then put them into a saucepan ■with a little oil, cover them with paper, and keep the saucepan at the side of the fire. Prepare a little quenelle forcemeat with the trimmings from the cutlets and a little lean veal, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped raw truffles, divide the mixture into six parts, form them into the shape of sausages, flatten them like cutlets, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water to poach. Take them out when they are set, drain them, let them cool, and dip into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Cut five or six truffles into slices, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient Madeira wine to moisten. In the meantime put any bones and trimmings of game into a saucepan with a little white wine and broth, add a few sweet herbs, cloves, and peppercorns, and boil slowly until the liquor is somewhat reduced, then cook the cutlets in it. Fry half a-dozen cutlet-shaped pieces of forcemeat in a frying-pan with a little butter. Take out the Roebuck cutlets when done, put them on a dish to keep warm, add the peel of the truffles to the saucepan, pour in 2 teacupfuls of sharp sauce and a little Madeira wine, and boil slowly until the sauce is reduced. Put the sauce- pan with the truffles on to a brisk fire, cook quickly to reduce the moisture, strain the sauce from the truffles, trimmings, &c., over them, and boil for a few minutes longer. Put the cutlets on a dish alternately with the pieces of forcemeat, arranging them in a circle, put the truffles in the centre, and serve. Hashed Roebuck.—Remove the skin and sinews from 21b. or 31b. of roasted saddle or quarter of Roebuck, and cut it into thin slices. Pour Iqt. of rich thick brown gravy or wine sauce into a saucepan over the fire, and boil slowly until it is reduced to about one-third its original bulk, then add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of port wine and 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly; boil for a few minutes, add the slices of Roebuck, dust over a little pepper, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover, and cook the meat slowly without boiling; put them on j a dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread, ami serve. Roebuck—continued. Minced Roebuck.—Chop the fillets from a saddle of Roebuck, then cut the fillets slantingly into collops; trim off the sinewy skin, beat them lightly with the handle of a knife, and season with salt and pepper. Melt a lump of butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry over a brisk fire, turning as one side is cooked and finishing the other. When cooked, pour 1 teacupful of Madeira wine over them, put in half the quantity of raw truffles as there are collops, cutting them first into halves, and boil the wine till reduced. Prepare a border, half of it being puree of chicken’s livers and the other half game quenelle forcemeat. When the border is poached, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish. Put the ragout of collops ami truffles in the centre, pour a little financiere sauce over, ami serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. Roasted Haunch of Roebuck.—(1) Remove the end of the bone from a leg of Roebuck, and the thick bone from the thick end ; take off the sinewy skin, and let the haunch macerate in a cooked marinade for five or six hours. Take it out, drain, lard it with fat bacon, put it on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire for from three-quarters-of- an-hour to an hour. When cooked, put it on a dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. (2) Lard a haunch of roedeer with strips of fat bacon, lay it in a deep dish with plenty of sliced carrots and onions, and any flavourings liked, such as chopped parsley, sweet herbs, peppercorns, cloves, and salt; moisten it with equal quantities of oil and red wine, and leave it in the marinade for four days, keeping it well basted. At the end of that time wrap the haunch up in a sheet of paper that has been well oiled or buttered, fix it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and baste well with butter. About fifteen minutes before taking the joint from the Fig. 408. Roasted IIaunch of Roebuck. fire, remove the paper, so that it may brown. A hen cooked, glaze it, place it on a hot carving dish, put a frill round the bone (see Fig. 408), and serve it with red- currant jelly and rich gravy. Roasted Leg of Roebuck.—Trim and lard a leg of Roebuck, put it into a bowl, dredge over a little salt, and pour over olive oil. Let the leg of Roebuck remain in this for five or six hours, take it out, drain it, put it on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast, basting frequently with a little olive oil. When done, put it on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of poivraile sauce. Should the leg of Roebuck be required more seasoned, it may be soaked in olive oil and red wine, sprinkled over with salt, ground mixed spice and thyme, and hasted frequently for a couple of days. Roebuck Cutlets.—(1) Put two or three cutlets of Roebuck into a saucepan, dust them over with salt and pepper, and add a little butter. Cook them slowly, turn them when they are half done, sprinkle in a little flour, and add sufficient white wine and stock to moisten, a few finely-chopped shallots and blanched mushrooms, and a little minced parsley. Continue to cook until the cutlets are done, take them out, put them in a circle on a dish, reduce the liquor, pass it through a fine sieve over the cutlets, and serve. (2) Chop the cutlets from the necks of two Roebucks, trim them, dip them in butter and then breadcrumbs, place them over a good fire, and broil them. Put them