274 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Punch.—c o ntinued. Claret Punch.—(1) Pour 1 wineglassful of syrup into a tumbler, half fill it with small pieces of ice, then add a little tincture of cloves, say about ^ teaspoonful; give the tumbler a shake so as to mix the ingredients, pour in 1 wineglassful of claret, put a thin slice of lemon on the top, and add also one or two ripe strawberries or rasp- berries, or even a bunch of red or white currants, and drink through straws. (2) Put 2 wineglassfuls of syrup into a Punch-bowl packed in ice, anti add half a sweet orange cut into slices, and two or three thin slices of cucumber; mix these well together, and pour in 1 liqueur-glassful of noyau, then a bottle of claret. Sprinkle in any spice to taste, and lastly about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed ice. A few minutes before serving pour in a bottle of soda-water. Commander-in-Chief Punch.—Pour lqt. of claret and a bottle of soda-water into a punch-bowl; add a wine- glassful of cura.foa, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it all; stir in a handful of picked and bruised mint-leaves, and 21b. of crushed ice; then pour in lqt. of champagne, stir well, and serve at once. 'Egg Punch.—Put into a casserole or lined saucepan lib. of loaf sugar, the grated yellow rinds and the juice of three large lemons, lqt. of wine, and 1 pint of mm. Beat twelve or fourteen eggs thoroughly, and mix with them by degrees 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water. When a stiff froth, mix the eggs with the other ingredients, place the saucepan over the fire, and whip the contents until hot. Remove the Punch off the fire before it boils or the eggs will curdle, and serve it hot in large glasses. Brandy or arrack may be used in place of the rum, if preferred. Empire Punch.—Mix together the following tinctures: loz. of cloves, ioz. of cinnamon, 2oz. of essence of almonds, and add them to 4galls. of Bourbon whisky. Afterwards mix in thoroughly 1 pint each of raspberry spirit and cognac, loz. of tincture of chillies, and lastly, 7galls. of thin syrup. When all the ingredients are thoroughly blended, pour the punch into bottles, cork them, and pack them away in a cool store cupboard or cellar. In seven or eight days the punch will he fit for use. Encore Punch.—Make 1 pint of green tea, strain it into a jug, and put in it 4 pint of calfs-foot jelly and J tea- cupful of pure honey. Stand the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the contents occasionally until the jelly has dissolved. Slice a small lemon and put it in a punch-bowl; pour over the slices a bottle of “ Encore ” whisky and 2 wineglassfuls of maraschino. When ready to serve, pour in the hot tea and jelly. German Rhine Wine Punch.—Rub §lb. of loaf sugar on the peel of two lemons until all the yellow rind is off, then put it into .a Punch-bowl and squeeze in the juice of the two lemons. Make 1 pint of strong green tea; put 2 pints of Rhine v ine into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until on the point of boiling; then mix it with the tea, and pour the whole into the bowl with the lemon. Pour in 1 pint of the best rum or arrack, stir it well, and serve. Iceberg Punch.—Freeze some clear water in a cone-shaped mould and ornament it with small bunches of straw- berries, grapes, and currants. Turn the ice into the centre of a Punch-bowl, and lay round it two or three sliced lemons. Mix well together in a basin 1 pint each of rum, maraschino, and syrup, then pour them over the lemons in the Punch-bowl. Add two bottles of champagne, and serve. Iced Punch with Pineapple and Champagne.—Peel a large pineapple rather thickly; pound the peel and mix with it a little grated lemon and orange-peel, and \ pint of tepid syrup at 28deg. In half-an-hour’s time pass the liquor through a sieve into a lined pan, add the strained juice of three lemons and two oranges, and sufficient water to bring the syrup down to 22deg. Pour the mixture into the ice-box, pack it in pounded ice, and work till frozen. Mix with the frozen liquor three whites of eggs of Italian meringue and half a bottle of champagne, pouring it in slowly, and working all the time. Add 1 teacupful of kirschenwasser at the last, and serve. Punch—continued. Imperial Punch.—Put the thinly-pared rind of a Seville orange into a lined pan with lin. of stick vanilla and a small piece of stick cinnamon; pour in lqt. of water, put the lirl on the pan, and scald the contents at the side of the fire. Peel four sweet oranges, divide them into quarters, and put them into a Punch-bowl; peel and cut a pine- apple into thin slices, place them in with the oranges, adding also the yellow peel of one lemon rubbed off on to lumps of sugar, and the strained juice of four lemons. Strain the liquor with the orange-peel through a fine hair sieve into the bowl and cover it until quite cold. Pour into the punch 1 pint each of arrack and hock, and last of all a bottle of champagne and 1 pint of seltzer water. Stir the Punch briskly, and serve it without delay. Indian Punch.—Mix ioz. of essence of lemon-peel with 1 gill of arrack essence. Pour a bottle of brandy (cognac) into a bowl, stir in the lemon mixture, and add two or three sprigs of syringa and one bottle of port wine. Mix lqt. of syrup with 1 pint of clarified lime-juice syrup, add them to the other ingredients, and put in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of ice; pour in two bottles of seltzer water, and serve immediately. Irving Punch.—Put three large bunches of carefully picked barberries into a china Punch-bowl, and pour over them 1 pint of Bourbon whisky and 1 pint of cognac. Mix in slowly lqt. of syrup, and stand the bowl on ice for an hour or two. When ready to serve, pour in two bottles of champagne. Kingston Punch.—Cut a lemon into thin slices and lay them at the bottom of a Punch-bowl, with three or four pieces of preserved ginger; pour over them 1 pint of white rum and 2 wineglassfuls of white rum. Mix in also 1 pint of plain syrup and 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup of the preserved ginger. Stand the bowl on ice until ready to serve, but leaving it there for at least one hour. When ready, pour in a bottle of sweet aerated water. Kirsch Punch.—Mix with 1 pint of water 3 teacupfuls of sugar, the strained juice of one lemon, and 1 wine- glassful of kirschenwasser. When the sugar has quite dissolved, strain the liquor into the freezer and work it till nearly frozen; then add the well-whipped whites of two eggs and finish freezing. The Punch is then ready for serving. Ladies’ Punch.—Put three or four sprays of lemon verbina into a Punch-bowl, then add 15 drops of essence of vanilla mixed up with 2 gills of brandy ; stir in 1 pint of lime- juice syrup, add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed ice, 1 bottle of moselle, and serve at once. Lord-of-the-Isles Punch.—Make 1 teacupful of hot green tea, strain it into a jug, and mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of loaf sugar and 1 table-spoonful of guava jelly; stand the jug in boiling water, and keep it near the fire. Put the thinly- pared rind of a small lemon into a Punch-bowl with the strained juice of two and 2 wineglassfuls of curafoa. Poui- in a bottle of Islay whisky, the hot tea mixture, and a small liqueur-glass of arrack. Mix the Punch well, and serve.- Mecklenburg Punch.—Cut a lemon into slices and put it in a Punch-bowl. Over this pour 1 bottle of whisky, 1 pint of best Jamaica rum, 3 pints of thin syrup, and 1 pint of ice-water. Milk Punch.—(1) Cut off the rinds or peels of forty limes, put them into a bowl or basin with 1 pint of rum, and let them steep for a couple of days. Put 4lb. of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 3qts. of water, boil to a syrup, grate in three nutmegs to flavour, turn the whole into a large vessel, pour in 6qts. of rum, add gradually lqt. each of lime-juice and boiling milk, and stir vigorously while adding. Let the mixture stand for one or two hours, strain several times until clear, pour it into bottles, and it is ready for use, and a welcome refresher at all times of .the year. (2) Put 1 table-spoonful of powdered white sugar into a good-sized tumbler, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water, and stir till the sugar is dissolved; then pour in £ wineglassful I of the best rum and 1 wineglassful of the best brandy,