THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 262 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Puddings—continued. layers of different kinds of jam, and pour in the beaten mixture. Strew over the top some finely-grated lemon- peel and a small quantity of caster sugar, and bake the Pudding in a slow oven until nicely browned on the top. Serve either hot or cold. Lady Wrottesley’s Puddings.—Beat 2oz. of warmed butter with 2oz. of caster sugar, and mix it with £ pint of cream; beat in gradually 2oz. of finely-sifted Hour, and when quite smooth stir in the well-beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Flavour with a few drops of rose- water. Butter some small cups or moulds, and three-parts fill them with the above mixture. Bake for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the Puddings out of the moulds on to a hot dish, dust lightly over with caster sugar, and serve with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. Lancer Pudding.—Cut lib. of beef suet into small squares, but do not chop it finely. Stone fib. of raisins and mix them together with (ioz. of flour, Coz. of moist sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and the yolks of four eggs. Work the mixture well, then whisk the whites of two eggs to Fig. 323. Lancer Pudding. a stiff froth, and add them. Flour a cloth, turn the mix- ture into it, and boil for six hours. W hen cooked, turn the Pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with brandy sauce either poured over it or in a sauceboat (see big. 323). Leamington Pudding. -Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the white of one and f pint of cream; then stir gradually into them 3oz. each of flour, moist sugar, and slightly-warmed butter. Beat the whole until thoroughly mixed. Turn the mixture into three oval-shaped moulds or tins about an inch deep, but each one a size smaller than the other, and bake for an hour. When cooked, turn the largest Pudding out of the tin on to a dish, over that spread a thin layer of apricot jam, turn the next size out, cover with more jam, then turn the smallest on the top. Serve with vine or sweet sauce. Leicester Pudding.—Put 3 teacupfuls of flour in a basin, and mix with it 1^ teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, 6oz. of finely-chopped beef suet, fib. of stoned and chopped raisins, 1J table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, the grated peel of a . small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix these ingredients thoroughly with 1 pint of milk, and turn the whole into a buttered basin; tie a cloth over the top and boil for three hours. When ready, turn the Pudding on to a dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. Light Pudding with Sabayon Sauce.—Put Coz. of flour and 3oz. each of sifted crushed loaf sugar and butter into a saucepan with a little salt, set the saucepan on the side of the fire, and work well with a spoon until the in- gredients are incorporated; then pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of warm milk, put the pan on the fire, and stir well until the mixture commences to thicken; then put it back again, and work vigorously until quite smooth. Put it once more on the fire, boil for five minutes, and then turn it into a basin to cool. When nearly cold, mix in 3 table- spoonfuls of lemon-sugar, then add, one at a time, the yolks of nine eggs, and lastly 14oz. of butter. Beat the mixture well until quite light, then add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff' froth. Turn the mixture into a mould previously buttered and floured, set it in a sauce- pan with water to half its height, and let it steam for Puddings—continued. forty to forty-five minutes. Turn it out on to a dish, and pour over sabayon sauce. Little Constance’s Pudding.—Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar into a bowl, and beat in ten eggs, warming them slightly and whisking or beating for two or three minutes. Add gradually fib. of warmed flutter, 1 breakfast-cupful of lukewarm milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and lastly lflb. of flour. Have ready some shallow baking- pans well greased and floured, put in the mixture only fin. in depth, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake until done and of a light golden colour. Take them out, arrange them on a dish, pour over a little sweet sauce, and serve. Louis Philippe Pudding.— Put 2lb. of peeled and cored whole apples into a saucepan smeared with butter at the bottom, pour in a little water to prevent the apples from burning, and add 2oz. of sugar, a little cinnamon, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Place the saucepan over a slack fire, and cook until the apples are done; but care must be taken not to let them cook too fast, or they will break. Put them carefully into a buttered mould, pour 1 table-spoonful of apricot jam into the cavity where the core was cut out, and push a thin strip of candied orange- or lemon-peel into the hole. Grate over the whole of them four macaroons, pour over a still’ cream highly flavoured with vanilla, covering the apples well with it; set the mould in the oven, and bake for thirty minutes. Turn it out, and serve; or it may be allowed to cool, and then frozen before being turned out. Madeira Puddings.—Break four eggs in a basin, and weigh them; then weigh an equal quantity each of flour and caster sugar; whisk the eggs well, then mix gradually in with them the flour and the sugar. Warm 4oz. of butter, beat it until creamy, then work it in with the other ingredients, and continue beating the whole well together for a few minutes. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, put them in a brisk oven, and bake for about a-quarter-of-an-liour. When the Puddings are cooked, turn them out of the moulds on to a hot dish, and serve with sweet Madeira sauce in a sauceboat or poured round them. Madonna Pudding.—Finely chop fib. of beef suet and mix with it 3 breakfast-cupfuls of grated breadcrumb, fib. of moist sugar, the grated peel of one lemon, f wineglassful of brandy, and one well-beaten egg. When thoroughly mixed, turn the whole into a buttered Pudding-basin, tie a cloth over the top, and boil for an hour. Serve either hot or oold. Maids-of-Honour Pudding.—Put lqt. of cream into a saucepan with a blade of mace, three cloves, and half a grated nutmeg; boil for a minute or two, and then let it cool. Beat together the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of three, strain them, mix in fib. of blanched and pounded almonds, and 1 table-spoonful each of sifted flour and orange-flower or rose-water. Now stir them in with the cream, turn the mixture into a cloth well damped and dusted with flour, tie up tightly, plunge into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for half-an-hour. Turn the Building carefully out on to a dish, dust it over with caster sugar, and serve with sweet or wine sauce poured round. Malaga Pudding.—Beat 8oz. of warmed butter to a cream, and stir in gradually an equal weight of sugar and the yolks of fifteen eggs. Work well until the mixture is quite frothy, then add 4 table-spoonfuls of apple mar- malade, previously mixed with a little of the mixture so as to work it in the easier, and stir in lastly the whites of eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Have ready a well- buttered plain or cylindrical-shaped mould, put a layer of the preparation at the bottom, cover this with small finger biscuits soaked or dipped in malaga wine, and continue in this way until the mould is quite full and all the materials are used up. Tie the mould over with a cloth, place it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, put the saucepan in a bain-marie, and cook for about forty minutes. When done, turn the Pudding on to