THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 388 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Sauces—continued. nutmeg and a few coarsely-bruised peppercorns ; boil it for a few minutes, then strain it into a larger saucepan, add 2oz. of salt butter, and stir it till dissolved. Lightly beat the yolks of eight eggs, mix the boiling vinegar gradually in with them, then turn the Sauce into the saucepan, and stir it over or near the fire till thick; do not let it boil again, or the eggs will curdle and spoil the Sauce. When thick, put in loz. of butter, stir it till dissolved, then move it from the fire; add another ounce of butter in small pieces, and serve. (2) Put equal quantities of coarsely-crushed mace and allspice into a saucepan with 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water and boil until reduced to 1 breakfast-cupful. Beat the yolks of three eggs, stir them in with the above liquor, first moving it away from the fire, and strain it. Season the Sauce to taste with salt, put in with it a little less than Jib. of butter, broken into small bits, and stir it at the edge of the lire until thickened but not boiling. When ready to serve the Sauce, squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice. (3) Put 14 wineglassfuls of vinegar in a saucepan and boil it until reduced to one-third, then add 4oz. of butter and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir it at the side of the fire until the butter has dissolved, then mix in by degrees and in small quantities another fib. of butter. If too thick add a few drops of cold water to the Sauce, stirring well all the time. Season the Sauce to taste with salt and pepper. Great care must be taken not to let it boil. When it is sufficiently thick, if it is too soon to serve the Sauce, keep it hot by standing the saucepan in another one containing boiling water or in a bain-marie. (4) Put 4- pint of bechamel sauce in a saucepan; press the juice from a bunch of parsley and strain it into the Sauce, season it with salt and cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. When ready to serve, mix with the Sauce a little strained lemon-juice. (5) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar into a small sauce- pan with a little pepper and salt, and boil them quickly till reduced to 1 teaspoonful. Separate the yolks of two eggs from the whites; put the yolks in with the reduced vinegar, add 4 teacupful of cold water, and stir them over a slow fire for two or three minutes. Mix 1 table- spoonful of butter in with the Sauce, and take it off the fire till dissolved; stir the Sauce over the fire again for a minute, put in another table-spoonful of butter, then take it off and continue stirring till dissolved. Place the Sauce over the fire again, stir for a few minutes, add another table-spoonful of butter, and proceed as before. Mix 1 table-spoonful of cold water with the Sauce, warm it up again, and it is ready for serving. (6) Beat the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, then pour in \ pint of fish broth, 1 wineglassful of lemon-juice, and half that quantity of tarragon vinegar; season the Sauce with salt and pepper, and stir it continually over the fire until it begins to boil. Remove the Sauce immediately from the fire or it will curdle, stir it for a few moments at the side, and then serve it. D’Uxelles Sauce.—(1) Reduce \ pint of Madeira Sauce with 4 wineglassful of white wine; add to it twelve very finely- chopped mushrooms, two shallots also chopped up and browned in a very little flutter for five minutes, and Joz. of chopped cooked ox-tongue. Boil again for five minutes, and serve. (2) Put some chopped shallots, chibbals, button-mushrooms, parsley, and VAicon into a saucepan with a little butter; fry them lightly so as not to brown them, pour in 4 pint of white Sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a bay-leaf, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. When cooked, mix with the Sauce a little lemon-juice and a beaten egg, and pour it into a basin. When cool, the Sauce is used for coating meat previously to rolling it in breadcrumbs. (3) Finely chop two mushrooms, two or three sprigs of parsley, two chopped shallots, a clove of garlic, some laurel-leaves and thyme; put all the above ingredients into a saucepan with some scraped bacon and a little butter, stir them over the lire for a few minutes, then pour in 1 pint of white wine, and season with salt, pepper, Sauces—continued. and mixed spices. Boil the Sauce till reduced to about half its original bulk, then strain it through a line hair sieve, thicken it with a little white roux, and turn it into a basin. This Sauce is used for either chicken or game entrees. Hast Indian Sauce.—Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin and mash them till quite smooth, then mix with them 1 teaspoonful of curry powder; pour in gradu- ally 1 breakfast-cupful of salad-oil and 4 teacupful of tarragon vinegar. Continue stirring the mixture till it is quite smooth and the ingredients are well incorporated; it is then ready for serving. This Sauce is very nice with salad. Espagnole Sauce.— Sec Spanish Sauce. Fair Maid’s Sauce.—Put some white broth into a sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs and an onion cut into slices, and let the mixture simmer by the side of the fire. Chop the white flesh of a cold chicken or rabbit, put it into a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, season with pepper and salt, and pound them. Mix the pounded meat with the bread and broth, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Jf the Sauce be too thick warm it with a little milk. Financiere Sauce (d la Financiere).—(1) Put 1 pint of stock into a saucepan with loz. of brown roux (See Roux) and stir it over the fire till boiling, skimming it occasion- ally. Mix with the above ingredients 1 wineglassful each of mushroom ketchup and Madeira, a small piece of meat glaze, and a little cayenne pepper. Move the sauce- pan to the- side of the fire, and let the Sauce simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Skim the Sauce, boil it up again, and then strain it. The Sauce is then ready for use. 2) Put into a saucepan 1 table-spoonful each of meat glaze, butter, and chopped mushrooms, and 1 teacupful of sherry; stir them over the fire for five or six minutes, then pour in 4 pint of brown Sauce. Boil the above ingre- dients till thick and creamy, strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (3) Put into a saucepan about 1 teacupful of chopped raw ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, trim- mings of truffles, three or four peppercorns, and pints of stock and white wine mixed in equal quantities. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity. Mix a little brown thickening with some reduced stock, stir it into the Sauce, and skim off all the fat. Strain the Sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve. (4) For Fish.—Put 1 pint of Spanish Sauce maigre into a saucepan with 4 pint each of essence of mushrooms and truffles, 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, and a small piece of fish glaze. Boil the mixture, and reduce it till it will coat a spoon. Strain it through a silk sieve and it is then ready for use. (5) For Game.—Put into a saucepan 3 breakfast-cupfuls of Spanish Sauce and 14 breakfast-cupfuls each of truffles and essence of game; boil them till reduced to half their original quantity. Strain the Sauce through a broth- napkin ; it will then be ready for serving. Flemish Sauce (a la Flamande).—(1) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of the red part of carrot cut into very small pieces in a saucepan with 14. breakfast-cupfuls of boiling water, and let it simmer for one hour. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed, then add a slice of carrot, one chopped onion, a blade of mace, and sixteen or eighteen peppercorns. Stir the whole over the fire for a minute or two, then pour in 1 pint of stock, and let it simmer gently for half-an-hour. Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of cream with the stock, boil it up once more, then strain it through a broth-napkin or a fine hair sieve. Strain the cooked carrot, put it into the Sauce, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped cucumber pickles, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful of grated horseradish, and salt enough to taste. Stir the Sauce well, and serve it. (2) For Codfish.—Put from 10oz. to 12oz. of butter into a stewpan, and let it melt; when it is quite hot add