196 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Pine-apples—continued. and hay or straw between them to prevent their knocking together and breaking, and steam for a-quarter-of-an hour, then move the pan off the lire and leave the bottles in the water till cold. Remove the paper, wax over the corks, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard. Pine-apple Punch.—Peel and slice a Pine-apple, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass it through a line hair sieve; then stir in | pint of water, 1 pint of syrup, and the juice of one lemon. Put the mixture in the ice-tub .and freeze it. Mix with the frozen Pine-apple water 2 wineglassfuls of Dantzic brandy, the juice of two lemons, and a bottle of sparkling champagne. Put the punch in the freezing-pot, pack it in ice, and work till frozen. When ready, mix with the punch three whites of eggs well whipped with sugar to form a meringue, and serve at once. Pine-apple with Rice.—Peel half a Pine apple, cut it in halves lengthwise, then in slices, not too thick, lay them in a basin, cover with rather thick boiling syrup, put a plate over the basin, and leave them for an hour. Make a puree with the trimmings of the Pine apple and some syrup, and keep it warm. Boil All), of well washed rice in milk, and when soft mix with it 1 teacupful of cream and a little orange sugar; stir it over the fire till the moisture is absorbed, then take it off. Shape the rice in a dome, surround it with the slices of Pine apple, and serve with the puree separately. Pine-apple Rum.—Put loz. of concentrated essence of Pine apple into a jar with 1 gall, of coloured 40deg. underproof rum (Jamaica), and when well mixed, bottle. Pine-apple Rum Punch.—Put two thin slices of Pine-apple at the bottom of a punch-bowl, pour over \ pint of white rum and a liqueur-glassful of curapoa, mix well, then add 1 pint of raspberry syrup and 1 gill of plain syrup. Now put in 1 breakfast-cupful of broken ice, stir well, pour in two bottles of lemonade, and serve. Pine-apple Rum Shrub.—Take a good sized ripe Pine-apple remove the crown, and chop it line, rind and all, except the crown. Put the chopped Pine-apple into a jar, with sufficient rum to cover it, close the jar, and let it stand for three days. When it has stood long enough, boil 11,1b. of loaf sugar with 1 pint of water till quite clear, taking off the scum as it rises; then let it get cold. Squeeze A pint of juice from either lemons or limes, free it from piips, then strain the rum from the Pine-apple, squeezing the Pine-apple well to get all the juice from it; add another quart of rum, turn in the cold syrup, mix all together, and bottle. Rather less than a wineglassful in a tumbler and filled up with ice water will make a pleasant summer drink. Pine-apple Salad.—Peel two very ripe Pine apples and cnt out the eyes. Take hold of the crown of tliePine-apple with the left hand, take a fork in the right hand, and with it tear the Pine apple into shreds till there is nothing left hut the core; throw this away. Put the shredded fruit in a com- pote-disli. Mix A pint of white sugar syrup with 1 wineglass- ful of arrack, and 1 table-spoonful each of brandy and curaf oa. Pour the mixture over the fruit, and serve. Pine-apple Sherbet.—(1) Soak 1 table spoonful of gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of cold water for two hours. Peel a large Pine apple, cut out the eyes and discoloured parts, chop it finely, and mix with it 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar. Dissolve the soaked gelatine in A pint of boiling water, then stir that and A pint of cold water in with the Pine-apple and sugar. Pour the mixture into the freezer and freeze it. This sherbet will be white and creamy. (2) Pare and grate a Pine-apple. Make a thick syrup of 311i. of loaf sugar, pour it boiling hot over the grated Pine apple, and stir in with the syrup enough boiling water to make 1 Agalls.; set it in ice water to cool and then put it into the freezer. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and stir them well into the sherbet while freezing. When frozen hard, repack with ice, and cover till required for use. Pine-apple Shrub.—Take a large npe Pine-apple, peel it, cut out the eyes, and remove the crown. Chop it very Pine-apples—continued. fine, put it with all its juice into a jug with a very narrow neck, and add lib. of sugar and lgall. of cold water. Let it stand in a temperature of 90deg. Falir. for a few days or till it begins to ferment, then let it cool on ice, and it is ready for use. Sometimes, when it begins to ferment, another Pine-apple is pared, the eyes taken out and crown cut off’, and grated, and together with Alb. of finely-powdered white sugar added to the shrub, which is then placed in a refrigerator and frozen. Serve it in tumblers with straws. Pine-apple Snow.—Soak Aoz. of gelatine in A pint of cold water for four hours, then mix with it the juice and thinly-pared rind of a lemon, half a Pine apple cut in small pieces, a little grated nutmeg, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Stir this well with the gelatine, bruising the Pine-apple with the back of the spoon, and let it stanil for two hours. Then pour in 1 pint of boiling water and stir till tlie gelatine is quite melted. Strain it then through flannel, squeezing and wringing to get the liquid through; let it stanil till nearly cold, then add 2 glasses of white vine and 1 glass of brandy, put a cover over it, and let it stand till quite cold. Beat up the whites of four eggs, add the liquid to them in small quantities, and whisk it in after all is mixed. Continue to whisk with an egg-whisk for at least half-an hour. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the mixture in, and put it into a refrigerator to set; then turn it out, and arrange on a dish like snow. See Fig. 251. Pine-apple Sorbet.—Take fib. of Pine apple pulp, having removed the peel, and pound it. Mix with it 4 breakfast- cupfuls of syrup at 32deg., the strained juice of one orange, and a small quantity of the grated yellow rind. Boil the mixture until reduced to 18deg., then strain it through a line hair sieve, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work it until frozen ; then mix with it a small quan- tity of cold syrup and A pint of champagne. Serve the sorbet ten minutes after the champagne is added. Pine-apple Sponge.—Peel a small fresh Pine apple, chop it, and put it in a lined saucepan with the juice, 1 teacupful of loaf sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Simmer for ten minutes, then add Aoz. of gelatine that has been soaked for two hours in 1 teacupful of water. Take the saucepan off the fire at once, and strain the contents into a basin. When nearly cold, stir in the beaten whites of four eggs, and beat till the mixture begins to thicken. Pour the sponge into a mould and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the sponge on to a fancy dish and serve it with a wine-flavoured custard. Pine-apple Syrup.—(1) Cut or chop up the required number of Pine-apples, put them into a vessel, and let them remain for twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Press out all the juice, and to each pound avoirdupois add loz. avoirdupois of Cologne spirits or deodorised alcohol. Mix thoroughly, set it aside for twelve hours, and filter through paper. For each pound of this add 1 Alb. of sugar, bring it to the boiling-point, remove at once from the fire, skim, and pour into bottles mixed with a little Cologne spirit. Cork, seal, and set away for use. (2) Mix together till well incorporated 1 drachm each of oil of Pine apple and tartaric acid, then mix them with